The emergence, survival, growth and maintenance of autoreactive (AR) B-cell clones, the hallmark of humoral autoimmunity, leave their footprints in B-cell receptor repertoires. Collecting IgH sequences related to polyreactive (PR) ones from adaptive immune receptor repertoire (AIRR) datasets make the reconstruction and analysis of PR/AR B-cell lineages possible. We developed a computational approach, named ImmChainTracer, to extract members and to visualize clonal relationships of such B-cell lineages. Our approach was successfully applied on the IgH repertoires of patients suffering from monogenic hypomorphic RAG1 and 2 deficiency (pRD) or polygenic systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) autoimmune diseases to identify relatives of AR IgH sequences and to track their fate in AIRRs. Signs of clonal expansion, affinity maturation and class-switching events in PR/AR and non-PR/AR B-cell lineages were revealed. An extension of our method towards B-cell expansion caused by any trigger (e.g., infection, vaccination or antibody development) may provide deeper insight into antigen specific B-lymphogenesis.
Gorham-Stout disease (GSD) is a very rare, life-threatening condition characterized by the proliferation of lymphatic vessels and osteolysis. Unfortunately, no standard treatment has been determined for management of GSD. The available therapies are not equally effective and carry substantial side-effects. We report a 42-year-old female with GSD manifested in multifocal osteolysis and chronic chylothorax and ascites. The combined treatment with sirolimus and zoledronic acid due to its synergism of action was introduced. To our knowledge, this is the first Polish case report of adult patients with Gorham-Stout disease.
Silicosis is a fibrotic disease caused by long-term inhalation of SiO2 particles that currently has no effective treatment. Earlier studies have suggested that pulmonary lymphatic vessels play a key role in the transport of silica but have not address the long-term effects of altered pulmonary lymphatic drainage on silicosis. Here, we investigated the impact of impaired pulmonary lymphatic drainage on silicosis. In the past, lymphatic drainage disorders were established mainly through the use of VEGF inhibitors. For the first time, we established a model of pulmonary lymphatic drainage disorder by ligating the thoracic duct in rats. Impaired pulmonary lymphatic drainage was found to aggravate inflammation and oxidative damage in silicosis rats and accelerate silicosis progression. Next, we investigated the effect of pulmonary lymphatic drainage on silicosis. We have demonstrated the effect of sodium tanshinone IIA sulfonate(STS) on lymphangiogenesis, which revealed that STS promotes lymphangiogenesis and can delay inflammation, oxidative damage, and fibrosis progression in silicosis rats by promoting the pulmonary lymphatic drainage response, and this effect is mediated by the VEGFR-3/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. These findings suggest that pulmonary lymphogenesis plays an important role in silicosis pathogenesis, and targeted intervention in pulmonary lymphangiogenesis may be a potential strategy for treating of silicosis in the future.
Free vascularized lymph node transfer (VLNT) is one of the new and highly efficacious procedures in the cases of lymphedema. In this case, we present a case of lower-limb lymphedema which was managed by this procedure where a supraclavicular LN was harvested and transferred to the lower leg. VLNT from the supraclavicular region is a very effective treatment for physiological restoration of the lymphatic flow in established cases of lower-limb lymphedema because of well-hidden favorable scar and minimal chances of secondary iatrogenic lymphedema in the donor region unlike other sites such as groin and axilla. The VLNT should be preferred over manual lymphatic drainage because it is very effective treatment for physiological restoration of the lymphatic flow, however, the further analytical studies are required to confirm statistically the effectiveness of the same over other modalities.
Background and Objectives: Assessment of RANTES level and concentrations of inflammatory cytokines: programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1), interferon gamma IFN-γ, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), transforming growht factor β (TGF-β) (and angiogenesis factors: vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGF C) in tumor and margin tissues of colorectal cancer (CRC,) and evaluation of RANTES influence on histopathological parameters (microvessel density (MVD), budding, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs)), in relation to patients' clinical features. Materials and Methods: The study used 49 samples of tumor and margin tissues derived from CRC patients. To determinate the concentration of RANTES, PD-L1, IFN-γ, TNF-α, TGF-β, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C, we used the commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit. Additionally, RANTES and PD-L1 expression was assessed with the use of IHC staining in both tumor cells and TILS in randomly selected cases. MVD was assessed on CD34-stained specimens. The MVD and budding were assessed using a light microscope. Results: We found significantly higher levels of RANTES, PD-L1, IFN-γ, TNF-α, TGF-β, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C in the tumor in comparison with the margin. The RANTES tumor levels correlated significantly with those of PD-L1, TNF-α, TGF-β, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C. The RANTES margin levels were significantly associated with the margin levels of all proteins investigated-PD-L1, IFN-γ, TNF-α, TGF-β, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C. Additionally, we observed RANTES- and PD-L1-positive immunostaining in TILs. In a group of 24 specimens, 6 different CRC tumors were positive for RANTES and PD-L1 immunostaining. The IFN-gamma concentration in both tumor and margin and TGF-β in tumor correlated with TILs. TILs were negatively associated with the patients' disease stage and N parameter. Conclusions: RANTES activity might be associated with angiogenesis, lymphogenesis, and immune escape in CRC. RANTES is an important chemokine that is a part of the chemokine-cytokine network involved in the modulation of TME composition in CRC. Further research may verify which processes are responsible for the associations observed in the study.
Tumor metastasis is the leading cause of cancer mortality, often characterized by abnormal cell growth and invasion to distant organs. The cancer invasion due to epithelial to mesenchymal transition is affected by metabolic and oxygen availability in the tumor-associated micro-environment. A precise alteration in oxygen and metabolic signaling between healthy and metastatic cells is a substantial probe for understanding tumor progression and metastasis. Molecular heterogeneity in the tumor microenvironment help to sustain the metastatic cell growth during their survival shift from low to high metabolic-oxygen-rich sites and reinforces the metastatic events. This review highlighted the crucial role of oxygen and metabolites in metastatic progression and exemplified the role of metabolic rewiring and oxygen availability in cancer cell adaptation. Furthermore, we have also addressed potential applications of altered oxygen and metabolic networking with tumor type that could be a signature pattern to assess tumor growth and chemotherapeutics efficacy in managing cancer metastasis.
Non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphomas (NHL) are a heterogeneous group of lymphoid neoplasms with complex etiopathology, rich symptomatology, and a variety of clinical courses, therefore requiring different therapeutic approaches. The hypothesis that an infectious agent may initiate chronic inflammation and facilitate B lymphocyte transformation and lymphogenesis has been raised in recent years. Viruses, like EBV, HTLV-1, HIV, HCV and parasites, like Plasmodium falciparum, have been linked to the development of lymphomas. The association of chronic Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection with mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma, Borrelia burgdorferi with cutaneous MALT lymphoma and Chlamydophila psittaci with ocular adnexal MALT lymphoma is well documented. Recent studies have indicated that other infectious agents may also be relevant in B-cell lymphogenesis such as Coxiella burnettii, Campylobacter jejuni, Achromobacter xylosoxidans, and Escherichia coli. The aim of the present review is to provide a summary of the current literature on infectious bacterial agents associated with B-cell NHL and to discuss its role in lymphogenesis, taking into account the interaction between infectious agents, host factors, and the tumor environment.
The T-cell lymphomas are a rare group of Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas derived from mature T-lymphocytes. They are divided broadly into the Peripheral T-cell lymphomas and the Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. Clinical outcomes vary widely but are generally unsatisfactory with current treatments. The development of an understanding of the various critical pathways in T-cell lymphogenesis and subsequent identification of therapeutic targets has led to a rapid expansion of the previously underwhelming T-cell lymphoma armament. This review aims to provide an up-to-date overview of the current state of targeted therapies in the T-cell lymphomas, including novel antibody-based treatments, small molecule inhibitors and immune-based therapies.
A 17-year-old girl presented with bilateral lower limb lymphedema since 3 years. Lymphedema in the right leg was Grade III, not pitting and not reducing in size after limb elevation. She hailed from a tribal community. Considering her young age, a single-stage operative procedure for her lymphedematous leg was followed, as she was not prepared for a multistaged operation. However, this operative procedure needed to be a combination of both, debulking and physiological procedures, so as to give her immediate limb girth reduction as well as reduction in recurrence, as seen with debulking procedures. We report a newer technique that could achieve both goals.
Contemporary developments in molecular biology have been combined with discoveries on the analysis of the role of all non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) in human diseases, particularly in cancer, by examining their roles in cells. Currently, included among these common types of cancer, are all the lymphomas and lymphoid malignancies, which represent a diverse group of neoplasms and malignant disorders. Initial data suggest that non-coding RNAs, particularly long ncRNAs (lncRNAs), play key roles in oncogenesis and that lncRNA-mediated biology is an important key pathway to cancer progression. Other non-coding RNAs, termed microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs), are very promising cancer molecular biomarkers. They can be detected in tissues, cell lines, biopsy material and all biological fluids, such as blood. With the number of well-characterized cancer-related lncRNAs and miRNAs increasing, the study of the roles of non-coding RNAs in cancer is bringing forth new hypotheses of the biology of cancerous cells. For the first time, to the best of our knowledge, the present review provides an up-to-date summary of the recent literature referring to all diagnosed ncRNAs that mediate the pathogenesis of all types of lymphomas and lymphoid malignancies.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most frequent lymphoma in adults, and is characterized as clinically and biologically heterogeneous lymphomas with diverse response to therapy and variation in clinical behavior. It's well-established that c-MYC and BCL2 play important roles in normal B-cell differentiation and tumorigenesis. B cell lymphoma with dual expression of c-MYC and BCL2 (double-expressor lymphoma, DEL) accounts for approximately one-third of DLBCL cases. DEL patients have poor outcomes after chemoimmunotherapy or autologous stem-cell transplantation. Lack of a genetic mouse tool for DEL hinders us from understanding the lymphogenesis mechanism and developing therapeutic strategies. Here, we investigated whether ectopic expression of c-MYC and BCL2 in different stages of B cells could lead to lymphoma and generate a mouse model for DEL. We observed that Co-expression of c-MYC and BCL2 in germinal center (GC) B cells, or pan-B cells could induce B cell lymphomas. The tumor-bearing mice have enlarged lymphoid organs, and B cells massively infiltrate into non-lymphoid organs including lung, liver and kidney. The tumor-bearing mice also manifested significantly shorter lifespan than the controls. In addition, adoptive transfer of Co-expression B cells leads to B cell lymphoma and host mice death. This model will provide us a tool to further explore the pathogenesis and treatment approaches for DEL.
Developmental pathways for B cell lymphogenesis are sufficiently known only in mice and humans. However, both of these species rearrange immunoglobulin heavy chains (IgH) before light chains (IgL) while IgL precedes IgH rearrangement in swine. We demonstrate here that this reversed order of rearrangements have some concealed consequences: (1) we confirmed that although IgLκ rearrangement is initial, most IgLλ+ B cells are generated earlier and before IgH rearrangements, while most IgLκ+ B cells later and after IgH rearrangements, (2) the second IgLκ rearrangement can occur after IgLλ rearrangement, (3) early formed B cells bear only single in-frame IgH rearrangements, (4) many IgLκ+ B cells carry IgLλ rearrangements that can be productive and occurring on both alleles in one cell, and (5) although VpreB and λ5 genes are present in swine, they are preferentially expressed in non-B cells. In summary, our findings reveal that swine use an alternative B cell developmental pathway as compared to mice and humans.
Repair of DNA double-stranded breaks (DSBs) during lymphocyte development is essential for V(D)J recombination and forms the basis of immunoglobulin variable region diversity. Understanding of this process in lymphogenesis has historically been centered on the study of RAG1/2 recombinases and a set of classical non-homologous end-joining factors. Much less has been reported regarding the role of chromatin modifications on this process. Here, we show a role for the non-redundant histone H3 lysine methyltransferase, Setd2, and its modification of lysine-36 trimethylation (H3K36me3), in the processing and joining of DNA ends during V(D)J recombination. Loss leads to mis-repair of Rag-induced DNA DSBs, especially when combined with loss of Atm kinase activity. Furthermore, loss reduces immune repertoire and a severe block in lymphogenesis as well as causes post-mitotic neuronal apoptosis. Together, these studies are suggestive of an important role of Setd2/H3K36me3 in these two mammalian developmental processes that are influenced by double-stranded break repair.
Hematological neoplasms are tumors of cells in different states of maturation and differentiation. Since monoclonal gammopathies (MG) refer to B mature lymphocyte neoplasms, lymphogenesis should be well known. We must keep in mind that the last stage of maturation of these lymphocytes is the plasma cell. This is how a MG could appear in the context of a plasma cell neoplasm, such as multiple myeloma or amyloidosis, but also in relation to a lymphoma. A monoclonal peak is produced by mature B lymphocytes or plasma cells that secrete a monoclonal protein (Immunoglobulin), and represents a MG. But it must be emphasized that, in the correct clinical context, a hypogammaglobulinemia can represent a MG as well. Another important point is the understanding and interpretation of requested tests, such as protein electrophoresis (PEP), immunofixation (IFx) or serum free light chains (sFLC). The current MG screening panel includes these three studies (PEF, IFx, sFLC), although a simpler panel measuring PEF and sFLC has also been proposed, but not yet formally validated. Therefore, screening done only with PEP is insufficient.
Porcine thymus contains three independent populations of cells that have rearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain VDJH genes. The first population can be found exclusively in medulla and it consists of existing mature B cells and plasma cells. The second consists of developing B cells characterized by the presence of selected VDJH rearrangement, similar to B cell lymphogenesis in the bone marrow. The third population is entirely unaffected by selection mechanism for productive VDJH rearrangement and represents T lineage cells that rearrange immunoglobulin genes. Transcription of unselected VDJH repertoire is not allowed in T cells. Sequence analysis of unselected VDJH repertoire from T cells also revealed important consequences for B cell lymphogenesis and selection of B cell repertoire. As far as we know, this is the first evidence that some species completely rearrange VDJH genes in T cells. Our results also support the finding that B cells actively develop in the thymus.
Background: Milroy disease (MD) is rare and autosomal dominant resulting from mutations of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 (VEGFR-3 or FLT4), which leads to dysgenesis of the lymphatic system. Methods: Here we report a Chinese MD family with 2 affected members of two generations. We identified the mutation of c.3075G>A in one allele of FLT4 in Chinese population firstly. The father and child presented lymphedema under knees both. Unfortunately, the child was premature delivered for a car accident of the mother and then died of asphyxia. Then we gathered the tissue of the lower-limb from the child with permission from the parents and ethic committee. We stained the tissue with lymphatic marker D2-40 and hematoxylin-eosin to explore the histological changes. Afterwards, we compared the results with a normal child who unfortunately died of premature delivery also. Results: It is firstly identified the mutation of FLT4: c.3075G>A in Chinese population, and the mutation Inherited in the lineage. The histological evaluation indicated: (1) The number of lymphatic vessels decreased; (2) The morphology and structure of lymphatic vessels was abnormal. And what is added to our knowledge: (1) Capillary hyperemia and phlebectasia is severe; (2) Vascular malformations; (3) The number of vascular endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells decreased; (4) Large sheets of epidermis desquamated; (5) The numbers of cutaneous appendages reduced in MD. Conclusions: Based on the new findings, we assume that mutation of FLT4 not only affect the lymphogenesis, but also the angiogenesis, and epidermis structure.
Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) associate with better prognosis in certain cancer types, but their underlying formation and immunological benefit remain to be determined. We established a mouse model of TLSs to study their contribution to antitumor immunity. Because the stroma in lymph nodes (sLN) participates in architectural support, lymphogenesis, and lymphocyte recruitment, we hypothesized that TLSs can be created by sLN. We selected a sLN line with fibroblast morphology that expressed sLN surface markers and lymphoid chemokines. The subcutaneous injection of the sLN line successfully induced TLSs that attracted infiltration of host immune cell subsets. Injection of MC38 tumor lysate-pulsed dendritic cells activated TLS-residing lymphocytes to demonstrate specific cytotoxicity. The presence of TLSs suppressed MC38 tumor growth in vivo by improving antitumor activity of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes with downregulated immune checkpoint proteins (PD-1 and Tim-3). Future engineering of sLN lines may allow for further enhancements of TLS functions and immune cell compositions.
Purpose Patients with advanced non‒small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who fail two lines of chemotherapy have unmet medical needs. The kinase inhibitor fruquintinib selectively targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors and, hence, tumor angiogenesis and lymphogenesis. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter phase II trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of fruquintinib in patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC who experienced disease progression after second-line chemotherapy. Patients and Methods Eligible patients were randomly assigned (two to one; stratified by epidermal growth factor receptor status) to receive fruquintinib or placebo, both in combination with best supportive care. Oral fruquintinib (5 mg once daily) was given in 4-week cycles of 3 weeks of treatment followed by 1 week off. Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. The primary end point was progression-free survival (PFS) evaluated by a blinded image central review (BICR) committee. Secondary end points included investigator-evaluated PFS, objective response rate, disease control rate, overall survival, and safety. Results Ninety-one patients from 12 hospitals received treatment with fruquintinib (n = 61) or placebo (n = 30). Median PFS was 3.8 months with fruquintinib by both BICR and investigators' evaluations (hazard ratio by BICR, 0.34; 95% CI, 0.20 to 0.57; P < .001). Three- and 6-month survival rates were 90.2% and 67.2% in the fruquintinib group and 73.3% and 58.8% in the placebo group, respectively. The objective response rate and disease control rate were 13.1% and 60.7% with fruquintinib, compared with 0% and 13.3% with placebo ( P = .041 and < .001), respectively. The most common treatment-emergent adverse events with fruquintinib (≥ grade 3) were hypertension (8.2%), hand-foot syndrome (4.9%), and proteinuria (4.9%). Conclusion Third- and fourth-line fruquintinib for advanced NSCLC was superior to placebo and had an acceptable safety profile.
The Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) component PHD Finger Protein 19 (phf19) gene has been identified to be associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) risk. Here we show that Phf19 is highly expressed in murine germinal centers (GCs) and RA patients. To investigate the function of Phf19 in lymphocytes, we generated RAG1-deficient mice reconstituted with Phf19 or control-vector transduced bone marrow (BM) cells. Lymphogenesis in primary lymphoid tissues of Phf19-RM is normal, however, Phf19-RM form enlarged GCs and generate more antibody-secreting cells (ASCs). Overexpression of Phf19 promotes proliferation and survival of GC B cells and Tfh cells in vivo. The uncovered Phf19-dependent targets include the genes encoding cyclin D2, the prosurvival factor Bcl-xL and CD40-CD40 ligand axis, their regulation by Phf19 could partially elucidate the advantages observed in Phf19-overexpressing GCs. Our results underscore an unrecognized but critical function for Phf19 in GCs formation and antibody generation, and implicate the potential role of Phf19 in RA pathogenesis.
Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is the most common adult-onset primary antibody deficiency disease due to various causative genes. Several genes, which are known to be the cause of different diseases, have recently been reported as the cause of CVID in patients by performing whole exome sequencing (WES) analysis. Here, we found FANC gene mutations as a cause of adult-onset CVID in two patients. B cells were absent and CD4+ T cells were skewed toward CD45RO+ memory T cells. T-cell receptor excision circles (TRECs) and signal joint kappa-deleting recombination excision circles (sjKRECs) were undetectable in both patients. Both patients had no anemia, neutropenia, or thrombocytopenia. Using WES, we identified compound heterozygous mutations of FANCE in one patient and homozygous mutation of FANCA in another patient. The impaired function of FANC protein complex was confirmed by a monoubiquitination assay and by chromosome fragility test. We then performed several immunological evaluations including quantitative lymphocyte analysis and TRECs/sjKRECs analysis for 32 individuals with Fanconi anemia (FA). In total, 22 FA patients (68.8%) were found to have immunological abnormalities, suggesting that such immunological findings may be common in FA patients. These data indicate that FANC mutations are involved in impaired lymphogenesis probably by the accumulation of DNA replication stress, leading to CVID. It is important to diagnose FA because it drastically changes clinical management. We propose that FANC mutations can cause isolated immunodeficiency in addition to bone marrow failure and malignancy.ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF)-like 4c (ARL4C) expression, induced by a combination of Wnt/β-catenin and EGF/Ras signaling, has been demonstrated to form epithelial morphogenesis. ARL4C overexpression, due to Wnt/β-catenin and EGF/Ras signaling alterations, was involved in tumorigenesis. It was also reported that ARL4C expression correlates with DNA hypomethylation in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of ARL4C gene during lymphogenesis. The current study was conducted to investigate the expression and functions of ARL4C due to DNA hypomethylation in lung and tongue cancers. Immunohistochemical analyses of tissue specimens obtained from lung and tongue squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) patients revealed that ARL4C is not observed in non-tumor regions, but is strongly expressed at high frequencies in tumor lesions. Although inhibition of Wnt/β-catenin or Ras/MAP kinase signaling did not decrease ARL4C expression in NCI-H520 lung SCC cells, ARL4C DNA was clearly hypomethylated in the 3'-UTR. Ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase (TET) enzyme, which mediates DNA demethylation, was highly expressed in NCI-H520 cells. Knockout of TET family proteins (TET1-3) in NCI-H520 cells reduced 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) levels and promoted DNA methylation in the 3'-UTR, leading to the decrease in ARL4C expression and ARL4C-mediated cellular migration. In tumor lesions of ARL4C-positive lung SCC, 5hmC was frequently detected and DNA methylation in the 3'-UTR of ARL4C gene was lower than in non-tumor regions, which were consistent with the Cancer Genome Atlas dataset. These results suggest that ARL4C is expressed due to hypomethylation in the 3'-UTR for certain types of cancers and that ARL4C methylation status is involved in cancer cell function.
PAXX was identified recently as a novel nonhomologous end-joining DNA repair factor in human cells. To characterize its physiological roles, we generated Paxx-deficient mice. Like Xlf-/- mice, Paxx-/- mice are viable, grow normally, and are fertile but show mild radiosensitivity. Strikingly, while Paxx loss is epistatic with Ku80, Lig4, and Atm deficiency, Paxx/Xlf double-knockout mice display embryonic lethality associated with genomic instability, cell death in the central nervous system, and an almost complete block in lymphogenesis, phenotypes that closely resemble those of Xrcc4-/- and Lig4-/- mice. Thus, combined loss of Paxx and Xlf is synthetic-lethal in mammals.
BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: The PAX5, a paired box transcription factor and B-cell activator protein (BSAP), activates B-cell commitment genes and represses non-B-cell lineage genes. About 14 transcript variants of PAX5 have been observed in human. Any alteration in its expression pattern leads to lymphogenesis or associated diseases and carcinogenesis in non-lymphoid tissues. Its mechanisms of function in pathophysiology of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) are unclear. This study was intended to explore influence of PAX5 in cascade of NHL pathogenesis and diagnosis.METHODS: Samples of 65 patients were evaluated by immunohistochemical staining for cellular localization of PAX5, CD19, CD3, cABL, p53, Ras and Raf and by TUNEL assay, RNA-isolation and reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR, w0 estern blot analysis, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) specific staining.RESULTS: B-cell type NHL patients were positive for PAX5, p53, Ras, CD19, Raf and CD3. All of them showed TUNEL-positive cells. The differential expression pattern of PAX5, CD19, p53, CD3, Zap700 , HIF 1α, Ras, Raf and MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) at the levels of transcripts and proteins was observed. The LDH assay showed modulation of LDH4 and LDH5 isoforms in the lymph nodes of NHL patients.INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: The histological observations suggested that the patients represent diverse cases of NHL like mature B-cell type, mature T-cell type and high grade diffuse B-cell type NHL. The findings indicate that patients with NHL may also be analyzed for status of PAX5, CD19 and ZAP70, and their transcriptional and post-translational variants for the differential diagnosis of NHL and therapy.
Pigs with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) are versatile animal models for human medical research because of their biological similarities to humans, suitable body size, and longevity for practical research. SCID pigs with defined mutation(s) can be an invaluable tool for research on porcine immunity. In this study, we produced RAG2-knockout pigs via somatic cell nuclear transfer and analyzed their phenotype. The V(D)J recombination processes were confirmed as being inactivated. They consistently lacked mature T and B cells but had substantial numbers of cells considered to be T- or B-cell progenitors as well as NK cells. They also lacked thymic medulla and lymphoid aggregations in the spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, and ileal Peyer's patches. We showed more severe immunological defects in the RAG2 and IL2RG double-knockout pig through this study. Thus, SCID pigs could be promising animal models not only for translational medical research but also for immunological studies of pigs themselves.
Ionizing radiation causes depletion of hematopoietic cells and enhances the risk of developing secondary hematopoietic malignancies. Vitamin E analog gamma-tocotrienol (GT3), which has anticancer properties, promotes postirradiation hematopoietic cell recovery by enhancing spleen colony-forming capacity, and provides protection against radiation-induced lethality in mice. However, the underlying molecular mechanism involved in GT3-mediated postirradiation survival is not clearly understood. Recent studies have shown that natural dietary products including vitamin E provide a benefit to biological systems by modulating microRNA (miR) expression. In this study, we show that GT3 differentially modulates the miR footprint in the spleen of irradiated mice compared to controls at early times (day 1), as well as later times (day 4 and 15) after total-body irradiation. We observed that miR expression was altered in a dose- and time-dependent manner in GT3-pretreated spleen tissues from total-body irradiated mice. GT3 appeared to affect the expression of a number of radiation-modulated miRs known to be involved in hematopoiesis and lymphogenesis. Moreover, GT3 pretreatment also suppressed the upregulation of radiation-induced p53, suggesting the function of GT3 in the prevention of radiation-induced damage to the spleen. In addition, we have shown that GT3 significantly reduced serum levels of Flt3L, a biomarker of radiation-induced bone marrow aplasia. Further in silico analyses of the effect of GT3 implied the association of p38 MAPK, ERK and insulin signaling pathways. Our study provides initial insight into the mechanism by which GT3 mediates protection of spleen after total-body irradiation.
The regulation of early B cell development and the interaction of hematopoietic precursors with stromal cells in the bone marrow (BM) are controlled by various secreted signaling molecules. Several recent studies showed Wnt signaling involved in B-lymphogenesis through stromal cells. However, the molecules modulated by Wnt signaling in stromal cells regulating B-lymphogenesis have not been identified yet. Interleukin (IL)-7 and CXC chemokine ligand (CXCL) 12 are known to be express in stromal cells, and both molecules are essential for B-lymphogenesis. In the present study, we examined the role of Wnt signaling in regulating IL-7 and CXCL12 expression and in affecting B-lymphogenesis. In mouse stromal ST2 cells, expression of IL-7 and CXCL12 mRNA was augmented by noncanonical Wnt5a. When mouse BM-derived cells were cultured on Wnt5a-overexpressing ST2 cells, an increased number of B220+/IgM- B-lymphoid precursor cells was observed. These results show that Wnt5a regulates IL-7 gene expression in stromal cells and suggest the possibility that noncanonical Wnt regulates B-lymphogenesis via IL-7 expression in stromal cells.
MicroRNAs are 19-22 nucleotide RNAs involved in such important processes as development, proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. Different miRNAs are uniquely expressed in lymphoid T cells, and play a role indevelopment and differentiation of various subtypes by targeting their target genes. Recent studies have shown that aberrant miRNA expression may be involved in T cell leukemogenesis and lymphogenesis, and may function as tumor suppressor (such as miR-451, miR-31, miR-150, and miR-29a) or oncogene (e.g. miR-222, miR-223, miR-17-92, miR-155). MiRNAs can be used as new biomarkers for prognosis and diagnosis or as an index of disease severity in T-cell leukemia and lymphoma. This article presents a review of studies in recent years on the role of miRNAs in T-cell development and their aberrant expression in pathogenesis of T-cell leukemia and lymphoma. Characterizing miRNAs can help recognize their role as new important molecules with prognostic and therapeutic applications.
BACKGROUND/AIM: Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma accounts for 5-17% non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). The molecular pathogenesis of MALT lymphomas is not well-established. The aim of this study was to evaluate immunohistochemically determined nuclear coexpression of BCL10 and NF-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in tumor cells of gastric MALT lymphoma and its impact on the patogenesis and outcome of the disease.METHODS: Medical records of 35 patients with newly diagnosed gastric MALT lymphoma were analyzed and biopsy specimens were immunostained for BCL10 and NF-kappaB expression (p65 subunit).RESULTS: The median age of 35 patients diagnosed with gastric MALT lymphoma was 63.5 years (male/female = 21/14). Symptoms were present in 23/35 (65.7%) patients with the weight loss as the most common symptom. Gastric MALT lymphomas were usually localized in the stomach corpus and corpus and antrum (45.7% and 31.2%, respectively). H. pylon infection was confirmed in 20 out of 30 (66.7%) patients. Treatment options were as follows: immunochemotherapy in 10 (28.5%) patients, surgery in 9 (25.8%) patients, combined surgery and chemotherapy in 14 (40%) patients and supportive measures in 2 (5.7%) patients. Complete remission was achieved in 13 (37.10/) patients and partial remission in two (5.7%/) patients. Sixteen (45.7%/) patients had disease progression (p < 0.001). Cytoplasmatic expression of BCL10 in tumor cells was detected in 19 (54.3%) specimens. Nuclear expression was detected in no specimen. Cytoplasmic expression of NF-kappaB was present in 22 (65.7%) specimens, but nuclear expression was not detected in any specimens.CONCLUSION: Nuclear expressions (activation)of NF-kappaB p65 subunit and BCL10 were not detected in specimens of gastric MALT lymphoma. The correlation of nuclear coexpression of BCL10 and NF-kappaB in gastric MALT lymphoma was not established. These results indicate that other mechanisms and signal pathways are active in lymphogenesis of gastric MALT lymphoma, as that apoptotic inhibition is not the main, nor the only mechanism in tumorogenesis.
The differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells to the B-cell lymphoid lineage has important clinical applications that include in vitro modeling of developmental lymphogenesis in health and disease. Here, we first demonstrate the capacity of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to differentiate into CD144(+)CD73(-)CD43/CD235a(-) cells, characterized as hemogenic endothelium, and show that this population is capable of differentiating to CD10(+)CD19(+) B lymphocytes. We also demonstrate that B lymphocytes generated from hiPSCs are able to undergo full VDJ rearrangement and express surface IgM (sIgM(+)), thus representing an immature B-cell subset. Efficiency of sIgM expression on the hiPSC-derived B lymphocytes (∼ 5% of CD19(+) cells) was comparable with B lymphocytes generated from human umbilical cord blood (UCB) hematopoietic progenitor cells. Importantly, when assessed by global transcriptional profiling, hiPSC-derived B-cells show a very high level of similarity when compared with their UCB-derived counterparts, such that from more than 47,000 different transcripts, only 45 were significantly different (with a criteria adjusted P value P<0.05, log FC >1.5 or 2.8-fold). This represents a unique in vitro model to delineate critical events during lymphogeneisis in development and lymphoid diseases such as acute lymphocytic leukemia.
A course and a site of B cell development in swine are not firmly known. In this study, we show that B cell lymphogenesis is located in the bone marrow (BM). According to expression of MHC class II (MHC-II), CD2, CD21, CD25, CD45RC, CD172a, swine workshop cluster (identification number) (SWC) 7, and μHC, porcine BM cells were resolved into seven subsets representing sequential stages of development. Profile of rearrangement-specific products and transcripts from sorted BM cells confirmed the proposed developmental pathway. The same developmental pathway was further proven by analysis of selection for productive rearrangements in Ig H chains and also by cultivation studies. Cultivation also showed that earliest precursors with incomplete DJ rearrangements can still revert their B cell differentiation and develop along myeloid lineage, whereas this is impossible for later developmental stages. Proliferation and the apoptotic potential of individual developmental stages as well as critical checkpoints were also identified. Colocalization experiments showed early colocalization of MHC-II/CD2/CD172a is replaced by colocalization of MHC-II/CD2/CD21/SWC7/IgM in immature cells, whereas CD25 and CD45RC did not colocalize with any other studied molecules. In this study, we also finally prove that the BM in pigs is fully functional in adult animals and that B lymphogenesis occurs there throughout life. To our knowledge, this is the first study showing a course and a direct site of B cell lymphogenesis in swine.Rodent hindlimb unloading (HU) by tail-suspension is a model to investigate disuse-induced bone loss in vivo. Previously, we have shown that osteopontin (OPN, also known as Spp1) is required for unloading-induced bone loss. However, how unloading affects OPN expression in the body is not fully understood. Here, we examined OPN expression in peripheral blood of mice subjected to HU. Real-time RT-PCR analysis indicated that OPN expression is increased in circulating peripheral blood cells. This HU-induced increase in OPN mRNA expression was specific in circulating peripheral blood cells, as OPN was not increased in the blood cells in bone marrow. HU-induced enhancement in OPN expression in peripheral blood cells was associated with an increase in the fraction of monocyte/macrophage lineage cells in the peripheral blood. In contrast, HU decreased the fraction size of B-lymphocytes in the peripheral blood. We further examined if B-lymphogenesis is affected in the mice deficient for osteopontin subjected to HU. In bone marrow, HU decreased the population of the B-lymphocyte lineage cells significantly, whereas it did not alter the population of monocyte/macrophage lineage cells. HU also increased the cells in T-lymphocyte lineage in bone marrow. Interestingly, these changes were observed similarly both in OPN-deficient and wild-type mice. These results indicate for the first time that HU increases OPN expression in circulating cells and suppresses bone marrow B-lymphogenesis.
BACKGROUND: α-Smooth muscle actin (α-SMA)-positive myofibroblasts play a pivotal role in progression and metastasis of solid carcinomas. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of cancer cells and lymphogenesis of tumor microenvironment are the important events in tumor metastasis. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the expression of myofibroblasts marker, α-SMA, and clinicopathological features, EMT, lymphogenesis, and prognostic status in oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma (OTSCC).METHODS: Immunohistochemisty was used to detect α-SMA expression in 50 OTSCCs. EMT and lymphogenesis were also identified by immunostaining with N-cadherin, vimentin, and lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1 (LYVE-1).RESULTS: There was a significant correlation respectively between the α-SMA (P = 0.002), vimentin (P < 0.001), N-cadherin (P = 0.025) expression and cervical lymph node metastasis of OTSCC. Carcinomas with α-SMA (P = 0.001), vimentin (P = 0.003), and N-cadherin (P = 0.012) expression were more advanced in terms of tumor-node-metastases status. Univariate analysis showed that pathologic node status (P < 0.001), α-SMA (P = 0.001), and vimentin expression (P = 0.044) was significantly associated with overall survival time, but multivariate analysis just showed the α-SMA expression (P = 0.008) and pathologic node status (P = 0.003) was independently predictive of prognosis. Furthermore, statistical analysis showed significant correlation between α-SMA expression and vimentin (P = 0.037), N-cadherin (P = 0.019), or LYVE-1 positive vessel count (P = 0.041).CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that α-SMA-positive myofibroblasts have important impacts on cancer progression, metastasis, and survival prognosis of patients with OTSCC. The functions of α-SMA-positive myofibroblasts in OTSCC may be associated with promoting EMT of tumor cells and lymphogenesis of metastasis microenvironment.B cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) is a protein that is vital for lymphogenesis. Its expression has been well established in lymphoma, especially in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Its role in carcinogenesis is less well understood. Previous study shows that BCL6 expression may regulate p19 functions, an important regulator for the p53 pathway. No prior study has attempted to evaluate the significance of BCL6 and p19(ARF) expression in a large cohort of patients with gallbladder carcinomas (GBCs). We selected 164 patients with GBC and performed immunostains for BCL6 and p19(ARF). BCL6 expression and p19(ARF) expression were evaluated using a histochemical score (H-score). We then correlated the results with various clinicopathological factors, disease-specific survival (DSS), and disease-free survival (DFS). BCL6 overexpression was significantly associated with high pT status, high TNM stage, higher histological grade (p = 0.029), vascular invasion, perineurial invasion, high Ki-67 labeling index, and low p19 expression. Importantly, BCL6 overexpression in GBC was strongly associated with worse DSS (p < 0.0001) and DFS (p < 0.0001) in the univariate analysis, and remained independently predictive of adverse outcomes (p = 0.001, hazard ratio (H.R.) = 3.098 for DSS; p = 0.002, H.R. = 2.255 for DFS). Low p19(ARF) expression was correlated with a poor DSS (p = 0.0144) and DFS (p = 0.0032) in the univariate analysis but was not prognosticatory in the multivariate analysis. In GBC, BCL6 overexpression correlated with adverse phenotypes and decreased p19(ARF) expression. BCL6 overexpression also independently predicts worse DSS and DFS, suggesting it has a role in tumorigenesis or carcinogenesis and could be a potential prognostic indicator in GBC.
Despite various great scientific and financial efforts, head and neck carcinomas represent a public health problem, being the eighth cause of cancer death worldwidely. The rate of tumor growth, its local expansion, as well as the metastasis of cancerous cells depend on the tumor vascularization, on the ability of blood vessels to provide a constant supply of nourishing substances and oxygen and to eliminate the residual products resulted from tumor growth. That is why angiogenesis and lymphogenesis are considered to be essential processes within the neoplastic process. The assessment of tumoral neoformed blood vessels in oral squamous carcinomas, using the CD34 antibody, showed a significant growth of the microvascular density, the average number being 504.66±177.65 vessels/mm². The diameter of angiogenesis vessels varied between 3.42 and 121.27 μm. The density of lymphogenesis vessels was 508.78±235.93 vessels/mm², while the diameter varied from 2.82 to 165.28 μm. Both angiogenesis and lymphogenesis vessels were more numerous in the areas where the inflammatory infiltrate was more abundant, which suggests that chronic inflammation plays the part of a promoter factor of neoplastic lesions.Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 (VEGFR-3) is a receptor for the vascular endothelial growth factor C and D (VEGF-C and D) and plays a critical role in the development of embryonic vascular system and regulation of tumor lymphangiogenesis. In this report, we generated a novel panel of 17 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against human VEGFR-3 and determined their ability to inhibit the proliferation of human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells and angiogenesis of chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM). Among these mAbs, BDD073 was demonstrated to inhibit the interaction of soluble VEGFR-3 with VEGF-D and the proliferation of HEL cells. Furthermore, in chick embryo CAM angiogenesis experiments, the angiogenesis induced by recombinant glutathione-S-transferase-VEGF-D was decreased in the presence of antibody BDD073. These data suggest that this novel neutralizing antibody against human VEGFR-3 could be a tool for the investigations into the biology of VEGFR-3, and potentially a reagent for blocking VEGF-D-induced angiogenesis and lymphogenesis.
Acidic lactate sequentially induced lymphogenesis, phlebogenesis, and arteriogenesis (ALPHA) hypothesis: Lactate-triggered glycolytic vasculogenesis that occurs in normoxia or hypoxia and complements the traditional concept of hypoxia-based vasculogenesis.Our hypothesis, ALPHA (Acidic Lactate sequentially induced Lymphogenesis, PHlebogenesis, and Arteriogenesis) proposes that lactate triggers vasculogenesis to manage lactate levels and complements the traditional vasculogenesis hypothesis. The teleologic basis for glycolytic vasculogenesis is primariy to produce drainage vessels, initially lymphatics but subsequently veins.Artiodactyls possess GALT that appears in fetal life and is located at the extreme end of the ileum. These IPP contain mostly B cells and involute early in postnatal life. Rabbits have a similarly located lymphoid organ, called the sacculus rotundus. Studies in sheep and rabbits have led to the concept that the lower hindgut GALT represents primary lymphoid tissue for B cells and is necessary for normal B cell development, analogous to the bursa of Fabricius. This review traces the history of the observations and theories that have led to the existing concept concerning the role of lower GALT. We then review recent data from piglets with resected IPP that challenges the concept that the IPP is primary B cell lymphoid tissue and that artiodactyls and rabbits are members of the GALT group in the same context as gallinaceous birds. Eliminating the IPP as the primary lymphoid tissue for B cells leads to the hypothesis that the IPP acts as first-responder mucosal lymphoid tissue.We characterized 239 lambda rearrangements from fetal and germfree (GF) piglets to: (1) determine if transcripts recovered from the earliest sites of B cell lymphogenesis were unique (2) determine what proportion of the genome is used to form the pre-immune repertoire (3) estimate the degree of somatic hypermutation and junctional diversity during ontogeny and (4) test whether piglets maintained germfree in isolators (GF piglets) have a more diversified repertoire than fetal piglets. We show that all expressed lambda genes belong to the IGLV3 and IGLV8 families and only IGLJ2 and IGLJ3 were expressed and used equally throughout fetal and neonatal life. Only genes of the IGLV8 family were used in yolk sac and fetal liver and in these tissues, IGLV8-10 comprised >50%. However, the IGLV8 genes recovered at these early sites of B cell lymphogenesis were recovered at all stages of development. Thus, no unique lambda rearrangement was recovered at the first sites of B cell development. The frequency of somatic hypermutation (SHM) in fetal piglets was ~5.9 per Kb equivalent, mutation were concentrated in CDR regions and did not increase in GF piglets. The average CDR3 length was 30 nt ± 2.7 and did not change in GF piglets. Similar to the heavy chain pre-immune repertoire in this species, three IGLV genes account for ~70% of the repertoire. Unlike the heavy chain repertoire, junctional diversity was very limited.
The genes encoding the heavy and light chains of swine antibodies are organized in the same manner as in other eutherian mammals. There are ∼30 VH genes, two functional DH genes and one functional JH gene, 14-60 Vκ genes, 5 Jκ segments, 12-13 functional Vλ genes, and two functional Jλ genes. The heavy chain constant regions encode the same repertoire of isotypes common to other eutherian mammals. The piglet models offers advantage over rodent models since the fetal repertoire develops without maternal influences and the precocial nature of their multiple offspring allows the experimenter to control the influences of environmental and maternal factors on repertoire development postnatally. B cell lymphogenesis in swine begins in the fetal yolk sac at 20 days of gestation (DG), moves to the fetal liver at 30 DG and eventually to the bone marrow which dominates until birth (114 DG) and to at least 5 weeks postpartum. There is no evidence that the ileal Peyers patches are a site of B cell lymphogenesis or are required for B cell maintenance. Unlike rodents and humans, light chain rearrangement begins first in the lambda locus; kappa rearrangements are not seen until late gestation. Dissimilar to lab rodents and more in the direction of the rabbit, swine utilize a small number of VH genes to form >90% of their pre-immune repertoire. Diversification in response to environmental antigen does not alter this pattern and is achieved by somatic hypermutation (SHM) of the same small number of VH genes. The situation for light chains is less well studied, but certain Vκ and Jκ and Vλ and Jλ are dominant in transcripts and in contrast to rearranged heavy chains, there is little junctional diversity, less SHM, and mutations are not concentrated in CDR regions. The transcribed and secreted pre-immune antibodies of the fetus include mainly IgM, IgA, and IgG3; this last isotype may provide a type of first responder mucosal immunity. Development of functional adaptive immunity is dependent on bacterial MAMPs or MAMPs provided by viral infections, indicating the importance of innate immunity for development of adaptive immunity. The structural analysis of Ig genes of this species indicate that especially the VH and Cγ gene are the result of tandem gene duplication in the context of genomic gene conversion. Since only a few of these duplicated VH genes substantially contribute to the antibody repertoire, polygeny may be a vestige from a time before somatic processes became prominently evolved to generate the antibody repertoire. In swine we believe such duplications within the genome have very limited functional significance and their occurrence is therefore overrated.
VDJ and VJ rearrangements, expression of RAG-1, Tdt and VpreB, and the presence of signal joint circles (SJC) were used to identify sites of B-cell lymphogenesis. VDJ, VλJλ but not VκJκ rearrangements or SJC were recovered from yolk sac (YS) at 20 days of gestation (DG) along with strong expression of VpreB and RAG-1 but weak Tdt expression. VλJλ rearrangements but not VκJκ rearrangements were recovered from fetal liver at 30-50 DG. SJC were pronounced in bone marrow at 95 DG where VκJκ rearrangements were first recovered. The VλJλ rearrangements recovered at 20-50 DG used some of the same Vλ and Jλ segments seen in older fetuses and adult animals. Hence the textbook paradigm for the order of light-chain rearrangement does not apply to swine. Consistent with weak Tdt expression in early sites of lymphogenesis, N-region additions in VDJ rearrangements were more frequent at 95 DG. Junctional diversity in VλJλ rearrangement was limited at all stages of development. There was little evidence for B-cell lymphogenesis in the ileal Peyer's patches. The widespread recovery of VpreB transcripts in whole, non-lymphoid tissue was unexpected as was its recovery from bone marrow and peripheral blood monocytes. Based on recovery of SJC, B-cell lymphogenesis continues for at least 5 weeks postpartum.
GRP78, a master regulator of the unfolded protein response (UPR) and cell signaling, is required for inner cell mass survival during early embryonic development. However, little is known about its role in adult hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and hematopoiesis. Here we generated a conditional knockout mouse model that acutely deletes Grp78 in the adult hematopoietic system. Acute GRP78 ablation resulted in a significant reduction of HSCs, common lymphoid and myeloid progenitors, and lymphoid cell populations in the mutant mice. The GRP78-null induced reduction of the HSC pool could be attributed to increased apoptosis. Chimeric mice with Grp78 deletion only in the hematopoietic cells also showed a loss of HSCs and lymphopenia, suggesting a cell intrinsic effect. Analysis of GRP78 deficient bone marrow (BM) cells showed constitutive activation of all the major UPR signaling pathways, including activation of eIF2α, ATF6, xbp-1 splicing, as well as caspase activation. A multiplex cytokine assay further revealed alteration in select cytokine and chemokine serum levels in the mutant mice. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that GRP78 plays a pleiotropic role in BM cells and contributes to HSC survival and the maintenance of the lymphoid lineage.
BACKGROUND: Angiogenesis and lymphogenesis which were promoted by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF-C are important in the growth and metastasis of solid tumors. The high level of VEGF and VEGF-C were distributed in numerous types of cancers, but their distribution and expression in Wilms tumor, the most common pediatric tumor of the kidney, was unclear.METHODS: To learn about the distribution, mass spectroscopy and immunohistochemistry were used to measure the level of VEGF and VEGF-C in serum and tissue of Wilms tumor.RESULTS: The expression level of VEGF in serum of Wilms tumor was the same as in pre-surgery and control, so it was the same case of VEGF-C. Both of these factors were chiefly located in Wilms tumor tissue, but not in borderline and normal. In addition, the higher clinical staging and histopathologic grading were important elements in high expression of VEGF and VEGF-C. Gender, age and the size of tumor have not certainly been implicated in expression level of VEGF and VEGF-C.CONCLUSIONS: The lymph node metastasis and growth of tumors resulted from angiogenesis and lymphogenesis which were promoted by VEGF and VEGF-C in Wilms tumor. The autocrine and paracrine process of VEGF and VEGF-C were the principal contributor to specific tissues of Wilms tumor but not to the entire body.
The continuous ileal Peyer's patches (IPP) of sheep are regarded as a type of mammalian bursal equivalent where B cells diversify their repertoire in an Ag-independent fashion. Anatomically and developmentally similar IPP occur in swine. Resection of ∼90% of the IPP in piglets at birth did not alter Ig levels in serum and secretions or retard diversification of the Ab repertoire when animals were maintained in isolators and colonized with a defined gut flora. Resection or sham surgery elevated IgG and IgA in serum and in lavage fluid from the gut, lung, and in saliva. No changes in the frequency of IgG-, IgA-, and IgM-containing cells in the spleen and peripheral lymph node were observed. Using an index that quantifies diversification of the VDJ repertoire, no differences were seen in three secondary lymphoid tissues between piglets lacking IPP and colonized controls, whereas both groups displayed >10-fold greater diversification than did late-term fetal piglets or piglets maintained germ-free. Somatic hypermutation was very low in fetal IPP and the IPP of germ-free piglets but increased 3- to 5-fold after colonization. D-J signal joint circles were not recovered in IPP, and V-DJ signal joint circles were 5-fold lower than in bone marrow and similar to those in thymus and spleen. We conclude that the porcine IPP are not a site of B cell lymphogenesis, do not undergo Ag-independent repertoire diversification, and are not primary lymphoid tissue since they are not required for maintenance of Ig levels in serum and secretions.DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1101871PMID: 22013126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
Vascular anomalies are disorders of abnormal vasculogenesis or lymphogenesis. All types of vascular anomalies may involve the airway, causing varying degrees of upper airway obstruction as well as dysphagia and bleeding. Certain signs and symptoms may implicate airway involvement with a hemangioma or vascular malformation. It is necessary to distinguish a vascular anomaly from other airway lesions such as a congenital cyst. This is accomplished with imaging and endoscopy.
Talin1 is a key integrin coactivator. We investigated the roles of this cytoskeletal adaptor and its target integrins in B-cell lymphogenesis, differentiation, migration, and function. Using CD19 Cre-mediated depletion of talin1 selectively in B cells, we found that talin1 was not required for B-cell generation in the bone marrow or for the entry of immature B cells to the white pulp of the spleen. Loss of talin1 also did not affect B-cell maturation into follicular B cells but compromised differentiation of marginal zone B cells. Nevertheless, serum IgM and IgG levels remained normal. Ex vivo analysis of talin1-deficient spleen B cells indicated a necessary role for talin1 in LFA-1 and VLA-4 activation stimulated by canonical agonists, but not in B-cell chemotaxis. Consequently, talin1 null B splenocytes could not enter lymph nodes nor return to the bone marrow. Talin1 deficiency in B cells was also impaired in the humoral response to a T cell-dependent antigen. Collectively, these results indicate that talin1 is not required for follicular B-cell maturation in the spleen or homeostatic humoral immunity but is critical for integrin-dependent B lymphocyte emigration to lymph nodes and optimal immunity against T-dependent antigens.
Micro-ribonucleic acids (microRNAs) are small molecules containing 20-23 nucleotides. Despite their small size, it is likely that almost every cellular process is regulated by them. Moreover, aberrant microRNA expression has been involved in the development of various diseases, including cancer. Although many data are available about the role of microRNAs in various lymphoproliferative disorders, their impact on the development of acute lymphoblastic leukemia of T-cell progenitors is largely unknown. In this review, we present recent information about how specific microRNAs are expressed and regulated during malignant T-lymphopoiesis and about their role during normal hematopoiesis.
The glycoprotein VI (GPVI)-FcR gamma-chain complex initiates powerful activation of platelets by the subendothelial matrix proteins collagen and laminin through an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM)-regulated signaling pathway. ITAMs are characterized by two YxxL sequences separated by 6-12 amino acids and are found associated with several classes of immunoglobulin (Ig) and C-type lectin receptors in hematopoietic cells, including Fc receptors. Cross-linking of the Ig GPVI leads to phosphorylation of two conserved tyrosines in the FcR gamma-chain ITAM by Src family tyrosine kinases, followed by binding and activation of the tandem SH2 domain-containing Syk tyrosine kinase and stimulation of a downstream signaling cascade that culminates in activation of phospholipase Cgamma2 (PLCgamma2). In contrast, the C-type lectin receptor CLEC-2 mediates powerful platelet activation through Src and Syk kinases, but regulates Syk through a novel dimerization mechanism via a single YxxL motif known as a hemITAM. CLEC-2 is a receptor for podoplanin, which is expressed at high levels in several tissues, including type 1 lung alveolar cells, lymphatic endothelial cells, kidney podocytes and some tumors, but is absent from vascular endothelial cells and platelets. In this article, we compare the mechanism of platelet activation by GPVI and CLEC-2 and consider their functional roles in hemostasis and other vascular processes, including maintenance of vascular integrity, angiogenesis and lymphogenesis.
It has long been known that B cells produce autoantibodies and, thereby, contribute to the pathogenesis of many autoimmune diseases. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a prototypic systemic autoimmune disorder, is characterized by high-circulating autoantibody titers and immune-complex deposition that can trigger inflammatory damage in multiple organs/organ systems. Although the interest in B cells in SLE has historically focused on their autoantibody production, we now appreciate that B cells have multiple autoantibody-independent roles in SLE as well. B cells can efficiently present antigen and activate T cells, they can augment T cell activation through co-stimulatory interactions, and they can produce numerous cytokines which affect inflammation, lymphogenesis, and immune regulation. Not surprisingly, B cells have become attractive therapeutic targets in SLE. With these points in mind, this review will focus on the autoantibody-dependent and autoantibody-independent roles for B cells in SLE and on therapeutic approaches that target B cells.
Although complement lysis is frequently used for the purification of lymphocyte subpopulations in vitro, how lymphocytes escape complement attack in vivo has not been clearly delineated. Here, we show that conditional gene targeting of a murine membrane complement regulator Crry on thymocytes led to complement-dependent peripheral T-cell lymphopenia. Notably, despite evidence of hypersensitivity to complement attack, Crry-deficient T cells escaped complement injury and developed normally in the thymus, because of low intrathymic complement activity. Crry-deficient T cells were eliminated in the periphery by a C3- and macrophage-mediated but C5-independent mechanism. Thus, Crry is essential for mature T-cell survival in the periphery but not for lymphogenesis in the thymus. The observation that the thymus is a complement-privileged site may have implications for complement-based antitumor therapies.