OBJECTIVES: Immunophenotyping technique is a powerful tool for the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other B-cell chronic lymphoproliferative diseases (B-CLPD). CD200 is strongly expressed in CLL. This study aims to analyze the clinical value of modified Matutes score (MMS) containing CD200 in the diagnosis of CLL.METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 103 B-CLPD patients diagnosed from January 2020 to July 2021, including 64 CLL patients, 11 follicular lymphoma (FL) patients, 14 mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients, 6 marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) patients, 1 hairy cell leukemia (HCL) patient, and 7 lymphoplasmic lymphoma/Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (LPL/WM) patients. The expression of CD markers between the CLL group and the non-CLL group was compared, and the sensitivity, specificity, and clinical consistency of MMS and Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) immunophenotyping score system were analyzed.RESULTS: There were significant differences in the expressions of CD5, CD23, FMC7, CD22, CD79b, CD200, and sIg between the CLL group and the non-CLL group (χ2 values were 37.42, 54.98, 30.71, 11.67, 55.26, 68.48, and 17.88, respectively, all P<0.01). When the RMH immunophenotyping score≥4, the sensitivity was 79.7%, and the specificity was 100%. When the MMS≥3, the sensitivity was 95.3%, and the specificity was 100%. The Kappa coefficient of RMH immunophenotyping system was 0.677, and the Kappa coefficient of MMS system was 0.860.CONCLUSIONS: The MMS system containing CD200 has better sensitivity and same specificity compared with RMH immunophenotyping system, and MMS system may be more useful in the diagnosis of CLL.
T-lymphocytes are key mediators of adaptive cellular immunity and knowledge about distinct subsets of these cells in healthy and infected mammary gland secretions remains limited. In this study, we used a multiplex cytometry panel to show that staphylococcal mastitis causes the activation of CD4+, CD8+ and γδ T-cells found in bovine milk. We also highlight remarkable differences in the proportions of naïve and memory T-cells subsets found in blood and milk. These observations will contribute to a better understanding of cell-mediated immune mechanisms in the udder and to the development of new therapeutic and preventive strategies targeting mastitis.
Gout is a disease caused by uric acid (UA) accumulation in the joints, causing inflammation. Two UA forms - monosodium urate (MSU) and soluble uric acid (sUA) have been shown to interact physically with inflammasomes, especially with the nod-like receptor (NLR) family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), albeit the role of the immune response to UA is poorly understood, given that asymptomatic hyperuricemia does also exist. Macrophage phagocytosis of UA activate NLRP3, lead to cytokines release, and ultimately, lead to chemoattract neutrophils and lymphocytes to the gout flare joint spot. Genetic variants of inflammasome genes and of genes encoding their molecular partners may influence hyperuricemia and gout susceptibility, while also influencing other comorbidities such as metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases. In this review, we summarize the inflammatory responses in acute and chronic gout, specifically focusing on innate immune cell mechanisms and genetic and epigenetic characteristics of participating molecules. Unprecedently, a novel UA binding protein - the neuronal apoptosis inhibitor protein (NAIP) - is suggested as responsible for the asymptomatic hyperuricemia paradox.Abbreviation: β2-integrins: leukocyte-specific adhesion molecules; ABCG2: ATP-binding cassete family/breast cancer-resistant protein; ACR: American college of rheumatology; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2, type of pattern recognition receptor; ALPK1: alpha-protein kinase 1; ANGPTL2: angiopoietin-like protein 2; ASC: apoptosis-associated speck-like protein; BIR: baculovirus inhibitor of apoptosis protein repeat; BIRC1: baculovirus IAP repeat-containing protein 1; BIRC2: baculoviral IAP repeat-containing protein 2; C5a: complement anaphylatoxin; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; CARD: caspase activation and recruitment domains; CARD8: caspase recruitment domain-containing protein 8; CASP1: caspase 1; CCL3: chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 3; CD14: cluster of differentiation 14; CD44: cluster of differentiation 44; Cg05102552: DNA-methylation site, usually cytosine followed by guanine nucleotides; contains arbitrary identification code; CIDEC: cell death-inducing DNA fragmentation factor-like effector family; CKD: chronic kidney disease; CNV: copy number variation; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyl transferase - type 1a; CXCL1: chemokine (CXC motif) ligand 1; DAMPs: damage associated molecular patterns; DC: dendritic cells; DNMT(1): maintenance DNA methyltransferase; eQTL: expression quantitative trait loci; ERK1: extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1; ERK2: extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2; EULAR: European league against rheumatism; GMCSF: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; GWAS: global wide association studies; H3K27me3: tri-methylation at the 27th lysine residue of the histone h3 protein; H3K4me1: mono-methylation at the 4th lysine residue of the histone h3 protein; H3K4me3: tri-methylation at the 4th lysine residue of the histone h3 protein; HOTAIR: human gene located between hoxc11 and hoxc12 on chromosome 12; IκBα: cytoplasmatic protein/Nf-κb transcription inhibitor; IAP: inhibitory apoptosis protein; IFNγ: interferon gamma; IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL-12: interleukin 12; IL-17: interleukin 17; IL18: interleukin 18; IL1R1: interleukin-1 receptor; IL-1Ra: interleukin-1 receptor antagonist; IL-22: interleukin 22; IL-23: interleukin 23; IL23R: interleukin 23 receptor; IL-33: interleukin 33; IL-6: interleukin 6; IMP: inosine monophosphate; INSIG1: insulin-induced gene 1; JNK1: c-jun n-terminal kinase 1; lncRNA: long non-coding ribonucleic acid; LRR: leucine-rich repeats; miR: mature non-coding microRNAs measuring from 20 to 24 nucleotides, animal origin; miR-1: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; miR-145: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; miR-146a: miR followed by arbitrary identification code, "a" stands for mir family; "a" family presents similar mir sequence to "b" family, but different precursors; miR-20b: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; "b" stands for mir family; "b" family presents similar mir sequence to "a" family, but different precursors; miR-221: miR - followed by arbitrary identification code; miR-221-5p: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; "5p" indicates different mature miRNAs generated from the 5' arm of the pre-miRNA hairpin; miR-223: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; miR-223-3p: mir followed by arbitrary identification code; "3p" indicates different mature miRNAs generated from the 3' arm of the pre-miRNA hairpin; miR-22-3p: miR followed by arbitrary identification code, "3p" indicates different mature miRNAs generated from the 3' arm of the pre-miRNA hairpin; MLKL: mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudo kinase; MM2P: inductor of m2-macrophage polarization; MSU: monosodium urate; mTOR: mammalian target of rapamycin; MyD88: myeloid differentiation primary response 88; n-3-PUFAs: n-3-polyunsaturated fatty-acids; NACHT: acronym for NAIP (neuronal apoptosis inhibitor protein), C2TA (MHC class 2 transcription activator), HET-E (incompatibility locus protein from podospora anserina) and TP1 (telomerase-associated protein); NAIP: neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein (human); Naip1: neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein type 1 (murine); Naip5: neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein type 5 (murine); Naip6: neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein type 6 (murine); NBD: nucleotide-binding domain; Nek7: smallest NIMA-related kinase; NET: neutrophil extracellular traps; Nf-κB: nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated b cells; NFIL3: nuclear-factor, interleukin 3 regulated protein; NIIMA: network of immunity in infection, malignancy, and autoimmunity; NLR: nod-like receptor; NLRA: nod-like receptor NLRA containing acidic domain; NLRB: nod-like receptor NLRA containing BIR domain; NLRC: nod-like receptor NLRA containing CARD domain; NLRC4: nod-like receptor family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP: nod-like receptor NLRA containing PYD domain; NLRP1: nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat, and pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP12: nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat, and pyrin domain containing 12; NLRP3: nod-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3; NOD2: nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain; NRBP1: nuclear receptor-binding protein; Nrf2: nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2; OR: odds ratio; P2X: group of membrane ion channels activated by the binding of extracellular; P2X7: p2x purinoceptor 7 gene; p38: member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family; PAMPs: pathogen associated molecular patters; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PGGT1B: geranylgeranyl transferase type-1 subunit beta; PHGDH: phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase; PI3-K: phospho-inositol; PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma; PPARGC1B: peroxisome proliferative activated receptor, gamma, coactivator 1 beta; PR3: proteinase 3 antigen; Pro-CASP1: inactive precursor of caspase 1; Pro-IL1β: inactive precursor of interleukin 1 beta; PRR: pattern recognition receptors; PYD: pyrin domain; RAPTOR: regulatory associated protein of mTOR complex 1; RAS: renin-angiotensin system; REDD1: regulated in DNA damage and development 1; ROS: reactive oxygen species; rs000*G: single nuclear polymorphism, "*G" is related to snp where replaced nucleotide is guanine, usually preceded by an id number; SLC2A9: solute carrier family 2, member 9; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7, member 11; SMA: smooth muscular atrophy; Smac: second mitochondrial-derived activator of caspases; SNP: single nuclear polymorphism; Sp3: specificity protein 3; ST2: serum stimulation-2; STK11: serine/threonine kinase 11; sUA: soluble uric acid; Syk: spleen tyrosine kinase; TAK1: transforming growth factor beta activated kinase; Th1: type 1 helper T cells; Th17: type 17 helper T cells; Th2: type 2 helper T cells; Th22: type 22 helper T cells; TLR: tool-like receptor; TLR2: toll-like receptor 2; TLR4: toll-like receptor 4; TNFα: tumor necrosis factor alpha; TNFR1: tumor necrosis factor receptor 1; TNFR2: tumor necrosis factor receptor 2; UA: uric acid; UBAP1: ubiquitin associated protein; ULT: urate-lowering therapy; URAT1: urate transporter 1; VDAC1: voltage-dependent anion-selective channel 1.DOI: 10.1080/08820139.2023.2168554PMID: 36745138
The liver is the front line organ of the immune system. The liver contains the largest collection of phagocytic cells in the body that detect both pathogens that enter through the gut and endogenously produced antigens. This is possible by the highly developed differentiation capacity of the liver immune system between self-antigens or non-self-antigens, such as food antigens or pathogens. As an immune active organ, the liver functions as a gatekeeping barrier from the outside world, and it can create a rapid and strong immune response, under unfavorable conditions. However, the liver's assumed immune status is anti-inflammatory or immuno-tolerant. Dynamic interactions between the numerous populations of immune cells in the liver are key for maintaining the delicate balance between immune screening and immune tolerance. The anatomical structure of the liver can facilitate the preparation of lymphocytes, modulate the immune response against hepatotropic pathogens, and contribute to some of its unique immunological properties, particularly its capacity to induce antigen-specific tolerance. Since liver sinusoidal endothelial cell is fenestrated and lacks a basement membrane, circulating lymphocytes can closely contact with antigens, displayed by endothelial cells, Kupffer cells, and dendritic cells while passing through the sinusoids. Loss of immune tolerance, leading to an autoaggressive immune response in the liver, if not controlled, can lead to the induction of autoimmune or autoinflammatory diseases. This review mentions the unique features of liver immunity, and dysregulated immune responses in patients with autoimmune liver diseases who have a close association with inborn errors of immunity have also been the emphases.©The Author(s) 2023. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.BACKGROUND: Asthma treatment is difficult due to disease heterogeneity and comorbidities. In addition, the development of drugs targeting the underlying mechanisms of asthma remains slow. We planned to identify the most upregulated differentially expressed long noncoding RNA in asthma to explore its regulatory patterns and pathways in asthma.METHODS: We sensitized mice using a mixture of ovalbumin, house dust mites, and lipopolysaccharide to establish an asthma mouse model. We also sensitized asthma cells with TGF-β1 in an in vitro model. We performed a microarray analysis to identify the lncRNA with the differential expression level in model mice. We applied hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome stainings to mouse tissues to quantify the tissue damage extent. Next, we assess the levels of lncRNA CRNDE, miR-29a-3p, TGF-β1, MCL-1, E-cadherin, vimentin, and snail. We counted the percentages of Th17 cells using flow cytometry. Finally, we performed a dual-luciferase reporter assay to assess the association between lncRNA CRNDE and miR-29a-3p.RESULTS: We successfully established asthma mouse/cell models and selected the lncRNA CRNDE for our study. Transfection of si-CRNDE reduced the degree of injury and inflammation in the mouse model and reversed the TGF-β1-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in the cell model. Moreover, the E-cadherin level was upregulated, and the levels of IL-17A, vimentin, snail, and α-SMA were downregulated. We also discovered that lncRNA CRNDE negatively regulated miR-29a-3p and that this one in turn inhibited MCL-1 in mice. After lncRNA CRNDE expression downregulation, the level of miR-29a-3p was increased, and we detected reduced levels of MCL-1 and EMTs.CONCLUSIONS: lncRNA CRNDE expression downregulation led to reduced inflammation and reduced lung damage in mice with induced asthma, it inhibited the EMTs of lung epithelial cells via the miR-29a-3p/MCL-1 pathway, and it reduced the levels of Th17/IL-17A cells to reduce asthma signs.
PURPOSE: To explore the value of integrating clinical and computed tomography (CT) features to predict multidrug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis (MDR-PTB).PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 212 patients with MDR-PTB and 180 patients with drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis (DS-PTB) who referred to our institute in China between January 2016 and March 2021. The clinical and CT characteristics were analyzed and compared between both groups. Multivariable logistic regression analysis was performed to identify independent factors that can be used to predict MDR-PTB. Furthermore, 115 patients admitted to another center from January 2019 to January 2022 were included as external validation cohort.RESULTS: For clinical characteristics, five parameters were significantly different between the two groups (all P < 0.05). With regard to CT features, nine parameters were significantly different between the two groups (all P < 0.05). Multivariable logistic regression analysis using the aforementioned differential features showed that male sex, retreated history, longer duration of previous anti-TB treatment, lower CD4+ T lymphocyte count, thick-walled cavity, centrilobular micronodules and tree-in-bud sign, bronchial stenosis, pleural and pericardial thickening were the most effective variations associated with MDR-PTB with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.849 and accuracy of 78.6%. Furthermore, the external validation cohort that contains 115 patients obtained an AUC of 0.933 and accuracy of 81.7%.CONCLUSION: MDR-PTB and DS-PTB have different clinical and imaging characteristics. A combined model incorporating these differential features can promptly diagnose MDR-PTB and develop subsequent therapeutic strategies.
Primary malignant lymphoma of the salivary glands is a very rare entity, and primary parotid Hodgkin's Lymphoma (HL) is even rarer. It is rare in the initial evaluation to suspect a parotid tumor. Thus, it is important to keep lymphomatous involvement in mind when facing parotid masses in differential diagnosis. This study presented a case of a 56-year-old male with a 5-month history of left cheek enlargement. Fine Needle Aspiration (FNA) biopsy was performed with no suspicion for lymphoma. Parotidectomy was also done and nodular lymphocyte predominance HL within the parotid gland was confirmed by immunohistochemical study. The Nodular Lymphocyte Predominance Hodgkin's Lymphoma has been defined as a specific histopathological subtype of HL. The initial diagnostic approach is usually carried out through FNA, obtaining high sensitivity and specificity, which allows establishing an adjusted for co-correct diagnosis.
BACKGROUND: Immunological phenotypes and differentiation statuses commonly decide the T cell function and anti-tumor ability. However, little is known about these alterations in CML patients.METHOD: Here, we investigated the immunologic phenotypes (CD38/CD69/HLA-DR/CD28/CD57/BTLA/TIGIT/PD-1) of T subsets (TN, TCM, TEM, and TEMRA) in peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) from de novo CML patients (DN-CML), patients who achieved a molecular response (MR) and those who failed to achieve an MR (TKI-F) after tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) treatment using multicolor flow cytometry.RESULTS: CD38 or HLA-DR positive PB CD8+TN and TCM cells decreased in the DN-CML patients and this was further decreased in TKI-F patients. Meanwhile, the level of PD-1 elevated in CD8+ TEM and TEMRA cells from PB in all groups. Among BM sample, the level of HLA-DR+CD8+TCM cells significantly decreased in all groups and CD8+TEMRA cells from TKI-F patients exhibited increased level of TIGIT and CD8+ tissue-residual T cells (TRM) from DN-CML patients expressed a higher level of PD-1 and TIGIT. Lastly, we found a significantly decreased proportion of CD86+ dendritic cells (DCs) and an imbalanced CD80/CD86 in the PB and BM of DN-CML patients, which may impair the activation of T cells.CONCLUSION: In summary, early differentiated TN and TCM cells from CML patients may remain in an inadequate activation state, particularly for TKI-F patients. And effector T cells (TEM, TEMRA and TRM) may be dysfunctional due to the expression of PD-1 and TIGIT in CML patients. Meanwhile, DCs cells exhibited the impairment of costimulatory molecule expression in DN-CML patients. Those factors may jointly contribute to the immune escape in CML patients.Adoptive cell therapies, like tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes or chimeric antigen receptor T cells, have become an important immunotherapeutic approach against cancer. One of the main struggles of T cell immunotherapies is how to obtain the most effective T cell phenotype, persistence, and differentiation potential to infuse into patients. Adjusting the T cell ex vivo cell culture conditions is a key factor to increase and improve the efficacy of cellular immunotherapies. In this review, we have summarized the ex vivo impact of short chain fatty acids, a group of gut microbiota derived metabolites, on T cell culture and expansion for immunotherapies. There is a complex gut microbiota-immune system interaction that can affect antitumor immunotherapy efficacy. Indeed, gut microbiota derived metabolites can modulate different biological functions in the immune system local and systemically.