The Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) component PHD Finger Protein 19 (phf19) gene has been identified to be associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) risk. Here we show that Phf19 is highly expressed in murine germinal centers (GCs) and RA patients. To investigate the function of Phf19 in lymphocytes, we generated RAG1-deficient mice reconstituted with Phf19 or control-vector transduced bone marrow (BM) cells. Lymphogenesis in primary lymphoid tissues of Phf19-RM is normal, however, Phf19-RM form enlarged GCs and generate more antibody-secreting cells (ASCs). Overexpression of Phf19 promotes proliferation and survival of GC B cells and Tfh cells in vivo. The uncovered Phf19-dependent targets include the genes encoding cyclin D2, the prosurvival factor Bcl-xL and CD40-CD40 ligand axis, their regulation by Phf19 could partially elucidate the advantages observed in Phf19-overexpressing GCs. Our results underscore an unrecognized but critical function for Phf19 in GCs formation and antibody generation, and implicate the potential role of Phf19 in RA pathogenesis.
ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF)-like 4c (ARL4C) expression, induced by a combination of Wnt/β-catenin and EGF/Ras signaling, has been demonstrated to form epithelial morphogenesis. ARL4C overexpression, due to Wnt/β-catenin and EGF/Ras signaling alterations, was involved in tumorigenesis. It was also reported that ARL4C expression correlates with DNA hypomethylation in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of ARL4C gene during lymphogenesis. The current study was conducted to investigate the expression and functions of ARL4C due to DNA hypomethylation in lung and tongue cancers. Immunohistochemical analyses of tissue specimens obtained from lung and tongue squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) patients revealed that ARL4C is not observed in non-tumor regions, but is strongly expressed at high frequencies in tumor lesions. Although inhibition of Wnt/β-catenin or Ras/MAP kinase signaling did not decrease ARL4C expression in NCI-H520 lung SCC cells, ARL4C DNA was clearly hypomethylated in the 3'-UTR. Ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase (TET) enzyme, which mediates DNA demethylation, was highly expressed in NCI-H520 cells. Knockout of TET family proteins (TET1-3) in NCI-H520 cells reduced 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) levels and promoted DNA methylation in the 3'-UTR, leading to the decrease in ARL4C expression and ARL4C-mediated cellular migration. In tumor lesions of ARL4C-positive lung SCC, 5hmC was frequently detected and DNA methylation in the 3'-UTR of ARL4C gene was lower than in non-tumor regions, which were consistent with the Cancer Genome Atlas dataset. These results suggest that ARL4C is expressed due to hypomethylation in the 3'-UTR for certain types of cancers and that ARL4C methylation status is involved in cancer cell function.
Ionizing radiation causes depletion of hematopoietic cells and enhances the risk of developing secondary hematopoietic malignancies. Vitamin E analog gamma-tocotrienol (GT3), which has anticancer properties, promotes postirradiation hematopoietic cell recovery by enhancing spleen colony-forming capacity, and provides protection against radiation-induced lethality in mice. However, the underlying molecular mechanism involved in GT3-mediated postirradiation survival is not clearly understood. Recent studies have shown that natural dietary products including vitamin E provide a benefit to biological systems by modulating microRNA (miR) expression. In this study, we show that GT3 differentially modulates the miR footprint in the spleen of irradiated mice compared to controls at early times (day 1), as well as later times (day 4 and 15) after total-body irradiation. We observed that miR expression was altered in a dose- and time-dependent manner in GT3-pretreated spleen tissues from total-body irradiated mice. GT3 appeared to affect the expression of a number of radiation-modulated miRs known to be involved in hematopoiesis and lymphogenesis. Moreover, GT3 pretreatment also suppressed the upregulation of radiation-induced p53, suggesting the function of GT3 in the prevention of radiation-induced damage to the spleen. In addition, we have shown that GT3 significantly reduced serum levels of Flt3L, a biomarker of radiation-induced bone marrow aplasia. Further in silico analyses of the effect of GT3 implied the association of p38 MAPK, ERK and insulin signaling pathways. Our study provides initial insight into the mechanism by which GT3 mediates protection of spleen after total-body irradiation.
The regulation of early B cell development and the interaction of hematopoietic precursors with stromal cells in the bone marrow (BM) are controlled by various secreted signaling molecules. Several recent studies showed Wnt signaling involved in B-lymphogenesis through stromal cells. However, the molecules modulated by Wnt signaling in stromal cells regulating B-lymphogenesis have not been identified yet. Interleukin (IL)-7 and CXC chemokine ligand (CXCL) 12 are known to be express in stromal cells, and both molecules are essential for B-lymphogenesis. In the present study, we examined the role of Wnt signaling in regulating IL-7 and CXCL12 expression and in affecting B-lymphogenesis. In mouse stromal ST2 cells, expression of IL-7 and CXCL12 mRNA was augmented by noncanonical Wnt5a. When mouse BM-derived cells were cultured on Wnt5a-overexpressing ST2 cells, an increased number of B220+/IgM- B-lymphoid precursor cells was observed. These results show that Wnt5a regulates IL-7 gene expression in stromal cells and suggest the possibility that noncanonical Wnt regulates B-lymphogenesis via IL-7 expression in stromal cells.
A course and a site of B cell development in swine are not firmly known. In this study, we show that B cell lymphogenesis is located in the bone marrow (BM). According to expression of MHC class II (MHC-II), CD2, CD21, CD25, CD45RC, CD172a, swine workshop cluster (identification number) (SWC) 7, and μHC, porcine BM cells were resolved into seven subsets representing sequential stages of development. Profile of rearrangement-specific products and transcripts from sorted BM cells confirmed the proposed developmental pathway. The same developmental pathway was further proven by analysis of selection for productive rearrangements in Ig H chains and also by cultivation studies. Cultivation also showed that earliest precursors with incomplete DJ rearrangements can still revert their B cell differentiation and develop along myeloid lineage, whereas this is impossible for later developmental stages. Proliferation and the apoptotic potential of individual developmental stages as well as critical checkpoints were also identified. Colocalization experiments showed early colocalization of MHC-II/CD2/CD172a is replaced by colocalization of MHC-II/CD2/CD21/SWC7/IgM in immature cells, whereas CD25 and CD45RC did not colocalize with any other studied molecules. In this study, we also finally prove that the BM in pigs is fully functional in adult animals and that B lymphogenesis occurs there throughout life. To our knowledge, this is the first study showing a course and a direct site of B cell lymphogenesis in swine.
B cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) is a protein that is vital for lymphogenesis. Its expression has been well established in lymphoma, especially in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Its role in carcinogenesis is less well understood. Previous study shows that BCL6 expression may regulate p19 functions, an important regulator for the p53 pathway. No prior study has attempted to evaluate the significance of BCL6 and p19(ARF) expression in a large cohort of patients with gallbladder carcinomas (GBCs). We selected 164 patients with GBC and performed immunostains for BCL6 and p19(ARF). BCL6 expression and p19(ARF) expression were evaluated using a histochemical score (H-score). We then correlated the results with various clinicopathological factors, disease-specific survival (DSS), and disease-free survival (DFS). BCL6 overexpression was significantly associated with high pT status, high TNM stage, higher histological grade (p = 0.029), vascular invasion, perineurial invasion, high Ki-67 labeling index, and low p19 expression. Importantly, BCL6 overexpression in GBC was strongly associated with worse DSS (p < 0.0001) and DFS (p < 0.0001) in the univariate analysis, and remained independently predictive of adverse outcomes (p = 0.001, hazard ratio (H.R.) = 3.098 for DSS; p = 0.002, H.R. = 2.255 for DFS). Low p19(ARF) expression was correlated with a poor DSS (p = 0.0144) and DFS (p = 0.0032) in the univariate analysis but was not prognosticatory in the multivariate analysis. In GBC, BCL6 overexpression correlated with adverse phenotypes and decreased p19(ARF) expression. BCL6 overexpression also independently predicts worse DSS and DFS, suggesting it has a role in tumorigenesis or carcinogenesis and could be a potential prognostic indicator in GBC.
Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 (VEGFR-3) is a receptor for the vascular endothelial growth factor C and D (VEGF-C and D) and plays a critical role in the development of embryonic vascular system and regulation of tumor lymphangiogenesis. In this report, we generated a novel panel of 17 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against human VEGFR-3 and determined their ability to inhibit the proliferation of human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells and angiogenesis of chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM). Among these mAbs, BDD073 was demonstrated to inhibit the interaction of soluble VEGFR-3 with VEGF-D and the proliferation of HEL cells. Furthermore, in chick embryo CAM angiogenesis experiments, the angiogenesis induced by recombinant glutathione-S-transferase-VEGF-D was decreased in the presence of antibody BDD073. These data suggest that this novel neutralizing antibody against human VEGFR-3 could be a tool for the investigations into the biology of VEGFR-3, and potentially a reagent for blocking VEGF-D-induced angiogenesis and lymphogenesis.
We characterized 239 lambda rearrangements from fetal and germfree (GF) piglets to: (1) determine if transcripts recovered from the earliest sites of B cell lymphogenesis were unique (2) determine what proportion of the genome is used to form the pre-immune repertoire (3) estimate the degree of somatic hypermutation and junctional diversity during ontogeny and (4) test whether piglets maintained germfree in isolators (GF piglets) have a more diversified repertoire than fetal piglets. We show that all expressed lambda genes belong to the IGLV3 and IGLV8 families and only IGLJ2 and IGLJ3 were expressed and used equally throughout fetal and neonatal life. Only genes of the IGLV8 family were used in yolk sac and fetal liver and in these tissues, IGLV8-10 comprised >50%. However, the IGLV8 genes recovered at these early sites of B cell lymphogenesis were recovered at all stages of development. Thus, no unique lambda rearrangement was recovered at the first sites of B cell development. The frequency of somatic hypermutation (SHM) in fetal piglets was ~5.9 per Kb equivalent, mutation were concentrated in CDR regions and did not increase in GF piglets. The average CDR3 length was 30 nt ± 2.7 and did not change in GF piglets. Similar to the heavy chain pre-immune repertoire in this species, three IGLV genes account for ~70% of the repertoire. Unlike the heavy chain repertoire, junctional diversity was very limited.
VDJ and VJ rearrangements, expression of RAG-1, Tdt and VpreB, and the presence of signal joint circles (SJC) were used to identify sites of B-cell lymphogenesis. VDJ, VλJλ but not VκJκ rearrangements or SJC were recovered from yolk sac (YS) at 20 days of gestation (DG) along with strong expression of VpreB and RAG-1 but weak Tdt expression. VλJλ rearrangements but not VκJκ rearrangements were recovered from fetal liver at 30-50 DG. SJC were pronounced in bone marrow at 95 DG where VκJκ rearrangements were first recovered. The VλJλ rearrangements recovered at 20-50 DG used some of the same Vλ and Jλ segments seen in older fetuses and adult animals. Hence the textbook paradigm for the order of light-chain rearrangement does not apply to swine. Consistent with weak Tdt expression in early sites of lymphogenesis, N-region additions in VDJ rearrangements were more frequent at 95 DG. Junctional diversity in VλJλ rearrangement was limited at all stages of development. There was little evidence for B-cell lymphogenesis in the ileal Peyer's patches. The widespread recovery of VpreB transcripts in whole, non-lymphoid tissue was unexpected as was its recovery from bone marrow and peripheral blood monocytes. Based on recovery of SJC, B-cell lymphogenesis continues for at least 5 weeks postpartum.
GRP78, a master regulator of the unfolded protein response (UPR) and cell signaling, is required for inner cell mass survival during early embryonic development. However, little is known about its role in adult hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and hematopoiesis. Here we generated a conditional knockout mouse model that acutely deletes Grp78 in the adult hematopoietic system. Acute GRP78 ablation resulted in a significant reduction of HSCs, common lymphoid and myeloid progenitors, and lymphoid cell populations in the mutant mice. The GRP78-null induced reduction of the HSC pool could be attributed to increased apoptosis. Chimeric mice with Grp78 deletion only in the hematopoietic cells also showed a loss of HSCs and lymphopenia, suggesting a cell intrinsic effect. Analysis of GRP78 deficient bone marrow (BM) cells showed constitutive activation of all the major UPR signaling pathways, including activation of eIF2α, ATF6, xbp-1 splicing, as well as caspase activation. A multiplex cytokine assay further revealed alteration in select cytokine and chemokine serum levels in the mutant mice. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that GRP78 plays a pleiotropic role in BM cells and contributes to HSC survival and the maintenance of the lymphoid lineage.