Author information:(1)The Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004.
Human parainfluenza viruses (hPIVs)-induced pneumonia is an important cause of pediatric hospitalization, and some develop severe pneumonias requiring pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) admission and mechanical ventilation (MV). The aim of this study is to investigate the value of peripheral blood (PB) parameters available on admission in predicting the need for PICU admission and MV due to pneumonia caused by hPIVs. A total of 331 cases including 277 (83.69%) on the general ward (GW) and 54 (16.31%) on the PICU were enrolled between January 2016 and June 2021. Of 54 patients admitted to the PICU, 24 patients (7.25%) received MV, whereas 30 (9.06%) did not. For both the PICU and GW groups, infants accounted for the highest proportion while school children had the lowest. Compared with the GW group, the PICU group had significantly higher rates of premature birth, fatigue, sore throat, headache, chest pain, tachypnea, dyspnea, and underlying diseases including congenital tracheal stenosis, congenital heart disease (CHD), metabolic disorder, and neurological disorder (ND), but significant lower proportion of exclusive breastfeeding and Z-scores for weight-for-height, weight-for-age, height-for-age, and body-mass-index (BMI)-for-age (BMIZ). Higher levels of some leukocyte differential counts (LDC)-related parameters including counts of neutrophil (N), ratios of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), derived neutrophils/(leukocytes minus neutrophils) ratio (dNLR), and platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), lower levels of some other LDC-related parameters including lymphocyte (L) and monocyte (M) counts, ratios of lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (LMR), lymphocyte-to-C-reactive protein ratio, and prognostic nutritional index (PNI), and lower levels of PB protein (PBP)-related parameters including red blood cell (RBC), hemoglobin, total protein (TP), and serum albumin were observed in the PB of patients in the PICU compared with those in the GW. Notably, higher PLR level and two comorbidities including CHD and ND were identified as independent risk factors for PICU admission, while lower PNI level as well as smaller numbers of RBC and L as good predictors. Low levels of TP might be a useful predictor of the need for MV. Overall, the relative contributions of LDC- and PBP-related factors for accurate identification of patients required PICU admission accounted for 53.69% and 46.31%, respectively. Thus, determination of whether a patient with hPIVs-induced pneumonia is admitted to PICU involves consideration of both the LDC- and PBP-related parameters.
INTRODUCTION: In clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) induction of CD8+T cells into a terminally exhausted state has been implicated as a major mechanism of immunotherapy resistance, but a deeper biological understanding is necessary.METHODS: Primary ccRCC tumor samples were obtained from 97 patients between 2004 and 2018. Multiplex immunofluorescence using lymphoid and myeloid markers was performed in seven regions of interest per patient across three predefined zones, and geospatial analysis was performed using Ripley's K analysis, a methodology adapted from ecology.RESULTS: Clustering of CD163+M2 like TAMs into the stromal compartment at the tumor-stroma interface was associated with worse clinical stage (tumor/CD163+nK(75): stage I/II: 4.4 (IQR -0.5 to 5.1); stage III: 1.4 (IQR -0.3 to 3.5); stage IV: 0.6 (IQR -2.1 to 2.1); p=0.04 between stage I/II and stage IV), and worse overall survival (OS) and cancer-specific survival (CSS) (tumor/CD163+nK(75): median OS-hi=149 months, lo=86 months, false-discovery rate (FDR)-adj. Cox p<0.001; median CSS-hi=174 months, lo=85 months; FDR-adj. Cox p<0.001). An RNA-seq differential gene expression score was developed using this geospatial metric, and was externally validated in multiple independent cohorts of patients with ccRCC including: TCGA KIRC, and the IMmotion151, IMmotion150, and JAVELIN Renal 101 clinical trials. In addition, this CD163+ geospatial pattern was found to be associated with a higher TIM-3+ proportion of CD8+T cells, indicative of terminal exhaustion (tumor-core: 0.07 (IQR 0.04-0.14) vs 0.40 (IQR 0.15-0.66), p=0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Geospatial clustering of CD163+M2 like TAMs into the stromal compartment at the tumor-stromal interface was associated with poor clinical outcomes and CD8+T cell terminal exhaustion.
BACKGROUND: Previous investigations have reported that controlling nutritional (CONUT) status scores, incorporating total cholesterol (TC) and serum albumin (SA) values, and total lymphocyte (LY) counts, are reliable malignant tumor predictors. However, CONUT scores for predicting endometrial cancer (EC) remain unexplored.OBJECTIVE: To evaluate preoperative CONUT scores as prognostic factors for postoperative EC.METHODS: We retrospectively evaluated preoperative CONUT scores in 785 surgically resected EC patients at our hospital between June 2012 and May 2016. Using time-dependent receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses, patients were split into: 1) CONUT-high (CH) (≥1) and 2) CONUT-low (CL) (<1) groups. Relationships between CONUT scores and different clinicopathological, pathological differentiation, muscle layer infiltration depth, and prognosis factors were examined, and Cox regression analyses performed to assess prognostic values on overall survival (OS) rates.RESULTS: We assigned 404 (51.5%) and 381 (58.5%) patients to CH and CL groups, respectively. In the CH group, body mass index (BMI), prognostic nutrition index (PNI), and LY/monocyte ratios (LMR) were decreased, however, neutrophil/LY (NLR) and platelet/LY ratios (PLR) were increased. Pathological differentiation analyses showed that G1 proportions were higher in the CL group, while G2 and G3 proportions were more prevalent in the CH group. Muscle layer infiltration depth in CL patients was < 50%, while that it was ≥50% in the CH group. No significant differences in OS rates were recorded between CH and CL groups over 60 months. However long-term survival (LTS) rates after 60 months in the CH group were significantly lower when compared with the CL group, and was more obvious in type II EC patients. Also, periuterine infiltration and preoperative CONUT scores were independent prognostic factors for OS rates as indicated by multi-factor analyses.CONCLUSION: CONUT scores not only facilitated the estimation of nutritional status, but were highly beneficial for predicting OS rates in patients with EC after curative resection. CONUT scores provided high predictive values for LTS rates over 60 months in these patients.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play vital roles in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Previous studies have shown that miR-150 is a crucial regulator of B cell proliferation, differentiation, metabolism, and apoptosis. miR-150 regulates the immune homeostasis during the development of obesity and is aberrantly expressed in multiple B-cell-related malignant tumors. Additionally, the altered expression of MIR-150 is a diagnostic biomarker of various autoimmune diseases. Furthermore, exosome-derived miR-150 is considered as prognostic tool in B cell lymphoma, autoimmune diseases and immune-mediated disorders, suggesting miR-150 plays a vital role in disease onset and progression. In this review, we summarized the miR-150-dependent regulation of B cell function in B cell-related immune diseases.
Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) control tumors via lysis of antigen-presenting targets or through secretion of cytokines such as interferon-γ (IFNG), which inhibit tumor cell proliferation. Improved understanding of CTL interactions within solid tumors will aid the development of immunotherapeutic strategies against cancer. In this study, we take a systems biology approach to compare the importance of cytolytic versus IFNG-mediated cytostatic effects in a murine melanoma model (B16F10) and to dissect the contribution of immune checkpoints HAVCR2, LAG3, and PDCD1/CD274 to CTL exhaustion. We integrated multimodal data to inform an ordinary differential equation (ODE) model of CTL activities inside the tumor. Our model predicted that CTL cytotoxicity played only a minor role in tumor control relative to the cytostatic effects of IFNG. Furthermore, our analysis revealed that within B16F10 melanomas HAVCR2 and LAG3 better characterize the development of a dysfunctional CTL phenotype than does the PDCD1/CD274 axis.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the influencing factors of tumor volume, body immunity, and poor prognosis after 125I particle therapy for differentiated thyroid cancer.METHODS: A total of 104 patients with differentiated TC who were treated with 125I particles during January 2020 to January 2021 was picked. These subjects were graded as low-dose group (80Gy-110Gy) and high-dose group (110Gy-140Gy) according to the minimum dose received by 90% of the target volume (D90) after surgery. The tumor volume before and after treatment was compared, and fasting venous blood was collected before and after treatment. The content of thyroglobulin (Tg) was detected by electrochemiluminescence immunoassay. The levels of absolute lymphocyte count (ALC), lymphocytes, neutrophils, and monocytes were detected on automatic blood cell analyzer. The lymphocyte to monocyte ratio (LMR), neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and platelet to lymphocyte ration (PLR) were calculated. The changes in the condition of patients were closely observed, and the occurrence of adverse reactions in the two groups were compared. The risk factors influencing the efficacy of 125I particle therapy for differentiated TC were analyzed through multivariate logistic regression analysis.RESULTS: The total effective rate of patients in the low- and high-dose groups was 78.85% and 82.69%, respectively (P > 0.05). Compared with the pretreatment period, the tumor volume and Tg level in both groups were much lower (P < 0.05), and the differences in tumor volume and Tg level had no statistically significant difference between the two groups before and after treatment (P > 0.05). At 1 week of the treatment, the total incidence of adverse reactions such as nausea, radiation gastritis, radiation parotitis, and neck discomfort was obviously higher in the high-dose group than in the low-dose group (P < 0.05). At 1 month of treatment, the incidence of adverse reactions such as nausea was markedly higher in the high-dose group than in the low-dose group (P < 0.05). After treatment, serum NLR and PLR contents were memorably elevated and LMR level was sharply decreased in both groups, and serum NLR and PLR contents were higher and LMR content was lower in the high-dose group than in the low-dose group (P < 0.05). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the pathological type of follicular adenocarcinoma, tumor size ≥ 2 cm, clinical stage of III~IV, distant metastasis, and high TSH level before 125I particle treatment were all risk factors related to the efficacy of 125I particle treatment of TC (P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: The efficacy of low-dose and high-dose 125I particles in the treatment of differentiated thyroid cancer is comparable, among which low-dose 125I particles have fewer adverse effects and have less impact on the immunity of the body, which is well tolerated by patients and can be widely used in clinical practice. In addition, the pathological type of follicular adenocarcinoma, tumor size ≥ 2 cm, clinical stage III~IV, distant metastasis, and high TSH level before 125I particle treatment are all risk factors that affect the poor effect of 125I particles on thyroid cancer treatment, and early monitoring of the above index changes can help evaluate the prognosis.
CD8+ T cells, a cytotoxic T lymphocyte, are a key component of the tumor immune system, but they enter a hyporeactive T cell state in long-term chronic inflammation, and how to rescue this depleted state is a key direction of research. Current studies on CD8+ T cell exhaustion have found that the mechanisms responsible for their heterogeneity and differential kinetics may be closely related to transcription factors and epigenetic regulation, which may serve as biomarkers and potential immunotherapeutic targets to guide treatment. Although the importance of T cell exhaustion in tumor immunotherapy cannot be overstated, studies have pointed out that gastric cancer tissues have a better anti-tumor T cell composition compared to other cancer tissues, which may indicate that gastrointestinal cancers have more promising prospects for the development of precision-targeted immunotherapy. Therefore, the present study will focus on the mechanisms involved in the development of CD8+ T cell exhaustion, and then review the landscapes and mechanisms of T cell exhaustion in gastrointestinal cancer as well as clinical applications, which will provide a clear vision for the development of future immunotherapies.
INTRODUCTION: Chronic Rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a common chronic disease with a high impact on patients' quality of life. If conservative and surgical guideline treatment cannot sufficiently control disease burden, biologicals can be considered as a comparably new treatment option that has revolutionized CRSwNP therapy since the first approval of Dupilumab in 2019. With the aim to select patients who benefit from this new treatment and to find a marker for therapy monitoring, we investigated the cellular composition of nasal mucous membranes and inflammatory cells of patients suffering from CRSwNP and undergoing Dupilumab therapy using non-invasive nasal swab cytology.METHODS: Twenty CRSwNP patients with the indication for Dupilumab therapy have been included in this prospective clinical study. In total, five study visits were conducted with ambulatory nasal differential cytology using nasal swabs starting with the beginning of therapy and followed by visits every 3 months for 12 months. First, these cytology samples were stained with the May-Grunwald-Giemsa method (MGG) and the percentage of ciliated cells, mucinous cells, eosinophil cells, neutrophil cells, and lymphocytes was analyzed. Secondly, an immunocytochemical (ICC) ECP-staining was performed to detect eosinophil granulocytes. Additionally, during each study visit the nasal polyp score, SNOT20 questionnaire, olfactometry, the total IgE concentration in peripheral blood as well as the eosinophil cell count in peripheral blood were recorded. The change of parameters was evaluated over one year and the correlation between clinical effectiveness and nasal differential cytology was analyzed.RESULTS: In both MGG (p<0.0001) and ICC analysis (p<0.001) a significant decrease of eosinophils was seen under Dupilumab treatment. When patients were divided into a Eo-low- (<21%) and Eo-high- (≥21%) group according to the percentage eosinophils in nasal swab catology in the first study visit, the Eo-high-group showed a greater change of eosinophils over time (Δ17.82) compared to the Eo-low-group (Δ10.67) but, however, no better response to therapy. The polyp score, SNOT20 questionnaire, and total IgE concentration in peripheral blood showed a significant decrease during the observation period (p<0.0001).DISCUSSION: Nasal swab cytology as an easy-to-apply diagnostic method allows detection and quantification of the different cell populations within the nasal mucosa at a given time. The nasal differential cytology showed a significant decrease of eosinophils during Dupilumab therapy and can therefore be used as non-invasvive method for monitoring therapy success of this cost intensive therapy and potentially can allow an optimized individual therapy planning and management for CRSwNP patients. Since the validity of initial nasal swab eosinophil cell count as a predictive biomarker for therapy response was limited in our study, additional studies including larger number of participants will be necessary to further evaluate the potential benefits for clinical practice of this new diagnostic method.
PURPOSE: Adenomyosis (AM) is a common benign uterine disorder that has deleterious effects on women's health. However, the pathogenesis of AM is not clearly understood. We aimed to investigate the pathophysiological changes and molecular mechanism in AM.METHODS: Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to construct a transcriptomic atlas of various cell subsets from the ectopic endometrium (EC) and eutopic endometrium (EM) of one AM patient and evaluate differential expression. The Cell Ranger software pipeline (version 4.0.0) was applied to conduct sample demultiplexing, barcode processing and mapping reads to the reference genome (human GRCh38). Different cell types were classified with markers with the "FindAllMarkers" function, and differential gene expression analysis was performed with Seurat software in R. The findings were confirmed by Reverse Transcription Real-Time PCR using samples from three AM patients.RESULTS: We identified nine cell types: endothelial cells, epithelial cells, myoepithelial cells, smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts, lymphocytes, mast cells, macrophages and unknown cells. A number of differentially expressed genes, including CLO4A1, MMP1, TPM2 and CXCL8, were identified from all cell types. Functional enrichment showed that aberrant gene expression in fibroblasts and immune cells was related to fibrosis-associated terms, such as extracellular matrix dysregulation, focal adhesion and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. We also identified fibroblast subtypes and determined a potential developmental trajectory related to AM. In addition, we identified increased cell-cell communication patterns in EC, highlighting the imbalanced microenvironment in AM progression.CONCLUSION: Our results support the theory of endometrial-myometrial interface disruption for AM, and repeated tissue injury and repair could lead to increased fibrosis in the endometrium. Therefore, the present study reveals the association between fibrosis, the microenvironment, and AM pathogenesis. This study provides insight into the molecular mechanisms regulating AM progression.
Ssu72, a dual-specificity protein phosphatase, not only participates in transcription biogenesis, but also affects pathophysiological functions in a tissue-specific manner. Recently, it has been shown that Ssu72 is required for T cell differentiation and function by controlling multiple immune receptor-mediated signals, including TCR and several cytokine receptor signaling pathways. Ssu72 deficiency in T cells is associated with impaired fine-tuning of receptor-mediated signaling and a defect in CD4+ T cell homeostasis, resulting in immune-mediated diseases. However, the mechanism by which Ssu72 in T cells integrates the pathophysiology of multiple immune-mediated diseases is still poorly elucidated. In this review, we will focus on the immunoregulatory mechanism of Ssu72 phosphatase in CD4+ T cell differentiation, activation, and phenotypic function. We will also discuss the current understanding of the correlation between Ssu72 in T cells and pathological functions which suggests that Ssu72 might be a therapeutic target in autoimmune disorders and other diseases.
BACKGROUND: Allergic rhinitis (AR) defined as inflammation and tissue remodeling of the nasal mucosa in atopic individuals after allergen exposure. Alpha-linolenic acid [cis-9, cis-12, cis-15-octadecatrienoic acid (18:3)] (ALA) as dietary supplementation can reduce inflammation and allergic symptoms.OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the potential therapeutic effect and mechanism of ALA in AR mouse model.METHODS: Ovalbumin sensitized AR mouse model were challenged with oral ALA administration. Nasal symptoms, tissue pathology, immune cell infiltration and goblet cell hyperplasia were investigated. Levels of IgE, TNF-β, IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-12, IL-13 and IL-25 were determined by ELISA in serum and nasal fluid. Quantitative RT-PCR and immunofluorescence were performed for occludin and zonula occludens-1 expression. CD3+CD4+ T-cells from peripheral blood and splenic lymphocytes were isolated and Th1/Th2 ratio were determined. Mouse naive CD4+ T cell were isolated and Th1/Th2 ratio, IL-4Rα expression, and IL5/IL13 secretion were determined. IL-4Rα-JAK2-STAT3 pathway change in AR mice were performed by western blot.RESULTS: Ovalbumin induced AR, nasal symptoms, pathological performance, IgE, and cytokine production. ALA treated mice showed reduced nasal symptoms, nasal inflammation, nasal septum thickening, goblet cell hyperplasia, and eosinophil infiltration. In serum and nasal fluid of ovalbumin challenged mice, ALA decreased IgE, IL-4 levels, and the increase of Th2-cells. ALA prevented the disruption of the epithelial cell barrier in ovalbumin-challenged AR mice. Simultaneously, ALA prevents IL-4 induced barrier disruption. ALA treatment of AR by affecting the differentiation stage of CD4+T cells and block IL-4Rα-JAK2-STAT3 pathway.CONCLUSION: This study suggests that ALA has the potential therapeutic effect to ovalbumin-induced AR. ALA can affect the differentiation stage of CD4+T cells and improve epithelial barrier functions through IL-4Rα-JAK2-STAT3 pathways.CLINICAL IMPLICATION: ALA might be considered as drug candidate for improving epithelial barrier function through Th1/Th2 ratio recovery in AR.
Activated phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase-delta syndrome (APDS) due to gain-of-function variant in the class IA PI3K catalytic subunit p110δ (responsible gene: PIK3CD) was described in 2013. The disease is characterized by recurrent airway infections and bronchiectasis. It is associated with hyper-IgM syndrome due to the defect of immunoglobulin class switch recombination and decreased CD27-positive memory B cells. Patients also suffered from immune dysregulations, such as lymphadenopathy, autoimmune cytopenia or enteropathy. T-cell dysfunction due to increased senescence is associated with a decrease in CD4-positive T lymphocytes and CD45RA-positive naive T lymphocytes, along with increased susceptibility to Epstein-Barr virus/cytomegalovirus infections. In 2014, loss-of-function (LOF) mutation of p85α (responsible gene: PIK3R1), a regulatory subunit of p110δ, was identified as a causative gene, followed in 2016 by the identification of the LOF mutation of PTEN, which dephosphorylates PIP3, leading to the differentiation of APDS1 (PIK3CD-GOF), APDS2 (PIK3R1-LOF) and APDS-L (PTEN-LOF). Since the pathophysiology of patients with APDS varies with a wide range of severity, it is crucial that patients receive appropriate treatment and management. Our research group created a disease outline and a diagnostic flow chart and summarized clinical information such as the severity classification of APDS and treatment options.
Mycosis fungoides (MF) is the most common form of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and is characterized by epidermotrophism of malignant CD4+ T-lymphocytes. When MF advances to a recurrent stage, patients require treatment with systemic therapies such as vorinostat, a histone deacetylase inhibitor. While vorinostat has been shown to exhibit anti-tumor activity in MF, its exact molecular mechanism has yet to be fully discerned. In the present study, we examined the transcriptomic and proteomic profiles of vorinostat treatment in two MF cell lines, Myla 2059 and HH. We find that vorinostat downregulates CTLA-4, CXCR4, and CCR7 in both cell lines, but its effect on several key pathways differs between the two MF cell lines. For example, vorinostat upregulates CCL5, CCR5, and CXCL10 expression in Myla cells but downregulates CCL5 and CXCL10 expression in HH cells. Furthermore, vorinostat upregulates IFN-γ and IL-23 signaling and downregulates IL-6, IL-7, and IL-15 signaling in Myla cells but does not affect these pathways in HH cells. Although Myla and HH represent established MF cell lines, their distinct tumor origin from separate patients demonstrates that inherent phenotypic variations within the disease persist, underscoring the importance of using a variety of MF cells in the preclinical development of MF therapeutics.
Autoimmune neuroinflammatory diseases are a group of disorders resulting from abnormal immune responses in the nervous system, causing inflammation and tissue damage. The interleukin (IL) family of cytokines, especially IL-1, IL-6, and IL-17, plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of these diseases. IL-1 is involved in the activation of immune cells, production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and promotion of blood-brain barrier breakdown. IL-6 is essential for the differentiation of T cells into Th17 cells and has been implicated in the initiation and progression of neuroinflammation. IL-17 is a potent pro-inflammatory cytokine produced by Th17 cells that plays a crucial role in recruiting immune cells to sites of inflammation. This review summarizes the current understanding of the roles of different interleukins in autoimmune neuroinflammatory diseases, including multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, neuromyelitis optica, and autoimmune encephalitis, and discusses the potential of targeting ILs as a therapeutic strategy against these diseases. We also highlight the need for further research to better understand the roles of ILs in autoimmune neuroinflammatory diseases and to identify new targets for treating these debilitating diseases.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a type of kidney cancer that arises from the cells lining the tubes of the kidney. The tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) of ccRCC is a complex interplay of various immune cells, cytokines, and signaling pathways. One of the critical features of the ccRCC TIME is the presence of infiltrating immune cells, including T cells, B cells, natural killer cells, dendritic cells, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Among these cells, CD8+ T cells are particularly important in controlling tumor growth by recognizing and killing cancer cells. However, the TIME of ccRCC is also characterized by an immunosuppressive environment that hinders the function of immune cells. Several mechanisms contribute to the immunosuppressive nature of the ccRCC TIME. For instance, ccRCC cells produce cytokines such as interleukin-10 (IL-10) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β), which suppress immune cell activation and promote the differentiation of regulatory T cells (Tregs). Tregs, in turn, dampen the activity of effector T cells and promote tumor growth. In addition, ccRCC cells can express programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), which interacts with the programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) receptor on T cells to inhibit their function. In addition, other immune checkpoint proteins, such as cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) and lymphocyte activation gene 3 (LAG-3), also contribute to the immunosuppressive milieu of the ccRCC TIME. Finally, the hypoxic and nutrient-poor microenvironment of ccRCC can stimulate the production of immunosuppressive metabolites, such as adenosine and kynurenine, which further impair the function of immune cells. Understanding the complex interplay between tumor cells and the immune system in the ccRCC TIME is crucial for developing effective immunotherapies to treat this disease.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulates dual receptor signaling by bridging the B cell receptor and Toll-like receptor 4 (BCR/TLR4). B cells from IκBNS-deficient bumble mice treated with LPS display reduced proliferative capacity and impaired plasma cell differentiation. To improve our understanding of the regulatory role of IκBNS in B cell activation and differentiation, we investigated the BCR and TLR4 signaling pathways separately by using dimeric anti-IgM Fab (F(ab')2) or lipid A, respectively. IκBNS-deficient B cells exhibited reduced survival and defective proliferative capacity in response to lipid A compared to B cells from wildtype (wt) control mice. In contrast, anti-IgM stimulation of bumble B cells resulted in enhanced viability and increased differentiation into CD138+ cells compared to control B cells. Anti-IgM-stimulated IκBNS-deficient B cells also showed enhanced cycle progression with increased levels of c-Myc and cyclin D2, and augmented levels of pCD79a, pSyk, and pERK compared to control B cells. These results suggest that IκBNS acts as a negative regulator of BCR signaling and a positive regulator of TLR4 signaling in mouse B cells.
The rate of new human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections globally is alarming. Although antiretroviral therapy (ART) improves the quality of life among this group of patients, ARTs are associated with risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). Moreover, virally suppressed patients still experience immune activation associated with HIV migration from reservoir sites. Statins are widely recommended as therapeutic agents to control ART-related CVD; however, their impacts on the cluster of differentiation (CD)4 count and viral load are inconsistent. To assess the effect of statins on markers of HIV infections, immune activation and cholesterol, we thoroughly reviewed evidence from randomised controlled trials. We found 20 relevant trials from three databases with 1802 people living with HIV (PLHIV) on statin-placebo treatment. Our evidence showed no significant effect on CD4 T-cell count standardised mean difference (SMD): (-0.59, 95% confidence intervals (CI): (-1.38, 0.19), p = 0.14) following statin intervention in PLHIV on ART. We also found no significant difference in baseline CD4 T-cell count (SD: (-0.01, 95%CI: (-0.25, 0.23), p = 0.95). Our findings revealed no significant association between statins and risk of viral rebound in PLHIV with undetectable viral load risk ratio (RR): (1.01, 95% CI: (0.98, 1.04), p = 0.65). Additionally, we found a significant increase in CD8+CD38+HLA-DR+ T-cells (SMD (1.10, 95% CI: (0.93, 1.28), p < 0.00001) and CD4+CD38+HLA-DR+ T-cells (SMD (0.92, 95% CI: (0.32, 1.52), p = 0.003). Finally, compared to placebo, statins significantly reduced total cholesterol (SMD: (-2.87, 95% CI: (-4.08, -1.65), p < 0.0001)). Our results suggest that the statin lipid-lowering effect in PLHIV on ART may elevate immune activation without influencing the viral load and CD4 count. However, due to the limited evidence synthesised in this meta-analysis, we recommend that future powered trials with sufficient sample sizes evaluate statins' effect on CD4 count and viral load, especially in virally suppressed patients.
Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is a hereditary tumor syndrome that targets a highly selective subset of organs causing specific types of tumors. The biological basis for this principle of organ selectivity and tumor specificity is not well understood. VHL-associated hemangioblastomas share similar molecular and morphological features with embryonic blood and vascular precursor cells. Therefore, we suggest that VHL hemangioblastomas are derived from developmentally arrested hemangioblastic lineage keeping their potential of further differentiation. Due to these common features, it is of major interest to investigate whether VHL-associated tumors other than hemangioblastoma also share these pathways and molecular features. The expression of hemangioblast proteins has not yet been assessed in other VHL-related tumors. To gain a better understanding of VHL tumorigenesis, the expression of hemangioblastic proteins in different VHL-associated tumors was investigated. The expression of embryonic hemangioblast proteins Brachyury and TAL1 (T-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia protein 1) was assessed by immunohistochemistry staining on 75 VHL-related tumors of 51 patients: 47 hemangioblastomas, 13 clear cell renal cell carcinomas, 8 pheochromocytomas, 5 pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, and 2 extra-adrenal paragangliomas. Brachyury and TAL1 expression was, respectively, observed in 26% and 93% of cerebellar hemangioblastomas, 55% and 95% of spinal hemangioblastomas, 23% and 92% of clear cell renal cell carcinomas, 38% and 88% of pheochromocytomas, 60% and 100% of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, and 50% and 100% of paragangliomas. We concluded that the expression of hemangioblast proteins in different VHL-associated tumors indicates a common embryological origin of these lesions. This may also explain the specific topographic distribution of VHL-associated tumors.
After resolution of infection, T cells differentiate into long-lived memory cells that recirculate through secondary lymphoid organs or establish residence in tissues. In contrast to CD8+ tissue-resident memory T cells (TRM), the developmental origins and transcriptional regulation of CD4+ TRM remain largely undefined. Here, we investigated the phenotypic, functional, and transcriptional profiles of CD4+ TRM in the small intestine (SI) responding to acute viral infection, revealing a shared gene expression program and chromatin accessibility profile with circulating TH1 and the progressive acquisition of a mature TRM program. Single-cell RNA sequencing identified heterogeneity among established CD4+ TRM, which were predominantly located in the lamina propria, and revealed a population of cells that coexpressed both effector- and memory-associated genes, including the transcriptional regulators Blimp1, Id2, and Bcl6. TH1-associated Blimp1 and Id2 and TFH-associated Bcl6 were required for early TRM formation and development of a mature TRM population in the SI. These results demonstrate a developmental relationship between TH1 effector cells and the establishment of early TRM, as well as highlighted differences in CD4+ versus CD8+ TRM populations, providing insights into the mechanisms underlying the origins, differentiation, and persistence of CD4+ TRM in response to viral infection.
Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is an autoimmune and degenerative disorder of skeletal muscle. The B cell infiltrates in IBM muscle tissue are predominantly fully differentiated Ab-secreting plasma cells, with scarce naive or memory B cells. The role of this infiltrate in the disease pathology is not well understood. To better define the humoral response in IBM, we used adaptive immune receptor repertoire sequencing, of human-derived specimens, to generate large BCR repertoire libraries from IBM muscle biopsies and compared them to those generated from dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and circulating CD27+ memory B cells, derived from healthy controls and Ab-secreting cells collected following vaccination. The repertoire properties of the IBM infiltrate included the following: clones that equaled or exceeded the highly clonal vaccine-associated Ab-secreting cell repertoire in size; reduced somatic mutation selection pressure in the CDRs and framework regions; and usage of class-switched IgG and IgA isotypes, with a minor population of IgM-expressing cells. The IBM IgM-expressing population revealed unique features, including an elevated somatic mutation frequency and distinct CDR3 physicochemical properties. These findings demonstrate that some of IBM muscle BCR repertoire characteristics are distinct from dermatomyositis and polymyositis and circulating Ag-experienced subsets, suggesting that it may form through selection by disease-specific Ags.
It is difficult to differentiate between non-complicated acute cholecystitis (NCAC) and complicated acute cholecystitis (CAC) preoperatively, which are two separate pathologies with different management. The aim of this study was to create an algorithm that distinguishes between CAC and NCAC using the decision tree method, which includes simple examinations. In this retrospective study, the patients were divided into 2 groups: CAC (149 patients) and NCAC (885 patients). Parameters such as patient demographic data, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) score, Tokyo grade, comorbidity findings, white blood cell (WBC) count, neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio, C-reactive protein (CRP) level, albumin level, CRP/albumin ratio (CAR), and gallbladder wall thickness (GBWT) were evaluated. In this algorithm, the CRP value became a very important parameter in the distinction between NCAC and CAC. Age was an important predictive factor in patients with CRP levels >57 mg/L, and the critical value for age was 42. After the age factor, the important parameters in the decision tree were WBC and GBWT. In patients with a CRP value of ≤57 mg/L, GBWT is decisive and the critical value is 4.85 mm. Age, neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio, and WBC count were among the other important factors after GBWT. Sex, ASA score, Tokyo grade, comorbidity, CAR, and albumin value did not have an effect on the distinction between NCAC and CAC. In statistical analysis, significant differences were found groups in terms of gender (34.8% vs 51.7% male), ASA score (P < .001), Tokyo grade (P < .001), comorbidity (P < .001), albumin (4 vs 3.4 g/dL), and CAR (2.4 vs 38.4). By means of this algorithm, which includes low-cost examinations, NCAC and CAC distinction can be made easily and quickly within limited possibilities. Preoperative prediction of pathologies that are difficult to manage, such as CAC, can minimize patient morbidity and mortality.
Cis-regulatory elements (CRE) are critical for coordinating gene expression programs that dictate cell-specific differentiation and homeostasis. Recently developed self-transcribing active regulatory region sequencing (STARR-Seq) has allowed for genome-wide annotation of functional CREs. Despite this, STARR-Seq assays are only employed in cell lines, in part, due to difficulties in delivering reporter constructs. Herein, we implemented and validated a STARR-Seq-based screen in human CD4+ T cells using a non-integrating lentiviral transduction system. Lenti-STARR-Seq is the first example of a genome-wide assay of CRE function in human primary cells, identifying thousands of functional enhancers and negative regulatory elements (NREs) in human CD4+ T cells. We find an unexpected difference in nucleosome organization between enhancers and NRE: enhancers are located between nucleosomes, whereas NRE are occupied by nucleosomes in their endogenous locations. We also describe chromatin modification, eRNA production, and transcription factor binding at both enhancers and NREs. Our findings support the idea of silencer repurposing as enhancers in alternate cell types. Collectively, these data suggest that Lenti-STARR-Seq is a successful approach for CRE screening in primary human cell types, and provides an atlas of functional CREs in human CD4+ T cells.
BACKGROUND: Previous studies have shown that Allium cepa (A. cepa) has relaxant and anti-inflammatory effects. In this research, A. cepa extract was examined for its prophylactic effect on lung inflammation and oxidative stress in sensitized rats.METHODS: Total and differential white blood cell (WBC) count in the blood, serum levels of oxidant and antioxidant biomarkers, total protein (TP) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), and lung pathology were investigated in control group (C), sensitized group (S), and sensitized groups treated with A. cepa and dexamethasone.RESULTS: Total and most differential WBC count, TP, NO2, NO3, MDA (malondialdehyde), and lung pathological scores were increased while lymphocytes, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and thiol were decreased in sensitized animals compared to controls (p < 0.01 to p < 0.001). Treatment with all concentrations of extract significantly improved total WBC, TP, NO2, NO3, interstitial fibrosis, and emphysema compared to the S group (p < 0.05 to p < 0.001). Two higher concentrations of the extract significantly decreased neutrophil and monocyte count, malondialdehyde, bleeding and epithelial damage but increased lymphocyte, CAT, and thiol compared to the S group (p < 0.05 to p < 0.001). Dexamethasone treatment also substantially improved most measured parameters (p < 0.05 to p < 0.001), but it did not change eosinophil percentage. It was proposed that A. cepa extract could affect lung inflammation and oxidative stress in sensitized rats.
BACKGROUND: Immune dysfunction is a common and serious complication of sepsis. This study finds key genes linked to immunity in sepsis.METHODS: The "Limma package" was used to analyze GSE154918 datasets for differentially expressed genes. The differentially expressed genes were then enriched for Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway, and interleukin 2 receptor subunit Beta (IL2RB) protein coding gene was chosen for investigation. IL2RB expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) was assessed by polymerase chain reaction. White blood cells of septic patients and healthy controls were collected from hospitals and linked with acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (APACHE) II, sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA), C-reactive protein (CRP), and procalcitonin (PCT) of septic patients using Pearson's correlation analysis. PBMC cells were transfected with IL2RB, and the effect of transfection was observed on cellular interferon gamma (IFN-γ), interleukin (IL)-12, IL-4, IL-10, and IL-17A.RESULTS: A total of 686 differential genes, comprising 446 upregulated and 240 down regulated genes, were identified. The enrichment of KEGG pathway revealed that the majority of differential genes were enriched in the T helper (Th1)/Th2 cell and Th17 cell differentiation pathways. In patients with sepsis, correlation analysis revealed a negative correlation between IL2RB and APACHE II score, SOFA score, CRP, and PCT. IFN-γ and IL-12 levels were elevated in PBMC of septic patients after IL2RB transfection, but IL-4, IL-10, and IL-17A levels were lowered.CONCLUSION: Sepsis-induced immunological dysfunction is improved by IL2RB, which also balances Th1/Th2 responses and prevents Th17 activation. © 2023 Codon Publications. Published by Codon Publications.
INTRODUCTION: The colitis induced by trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) is a chronic and systemic inflammatory disease that leads to intestinal barrier dysfunction and autoimmunedisorders. However, the existing treatments of colitis are associated with poor outcomes, and the current strategies remain deep and long-time remission and the prevention of complications. Recently, demethyleneberberine (DMB) has been reported to be a potential candidate for the treatment of inflammatory response that relied on multiple pharmacological activities, including anti-oxidation and antiinflammation. However, the target and potential mechanism of DMB in inflammatory response have not been fully elucidated.METHODS: This study employed a TNBS-induced colitis model and acute sepsis mice to screen and identify the potential targets and molecular mechanisms of DMB in vitro and in vivo. The purity and structure of DMB were quantitatively analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), mass spectrometry (MS), Hydrogen nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-NMR), and infrared spectroscopy (IR), respectively. The rats were induced by a rubber hose inserted approximately 8 cm through their anus to be injected with TNBS. Acute sepsis was induced by injection with LPS via the tail vein for 60 h. These animals with inflammation were orally administrated with DMB, berberine (BBR), or curcumin (Curc), respectively. The eukaryotic and prokaryotic expression system of myeloid differentiation protein-2 (MD-2) and its mutants were used to evaluate the target of DMB in inflammatory response.RESLUTS: DMB had two free phenolic hydroxyl groups, and the purity exceeded 99% in HPLC. DMB alleviated colitis and suppressed the activation of TLR4 signaling in TNBS-induced colitis rats and LPS-induced RAW264.7 cells. DMB significantly blocked TLR4 signaling in both an MyD88-dependent and an MyD88-independent manner by embedding into the hydrophobic pocket of the MD-2 protein with non-covalent bonding to phenylalanine at position 76 in a pi-pi T-shaped interaction. DMB rescued mice from sepsis shock induced by LPS through targeting the TLR4-MD-2 complex.CONCLUSION: Taken together, DMB is a promising inhibitor of the MD-2 protein to suppress the hyperactivated TLR4 signaling in inflammatory response.
INTRODUCTION: The human immune system contains cells with either effector/memory or regulatory functions. Besides the well-established CD4+CD25hiCD127lo regulatory T cells (Tregs), we and others have shown that B cells can also have regulatory functions since their frequency and number are increased in kidney graft tolerance and B cell depletion as induction therapy may lead to acute rejection. On the other hand, we have shown that CD28-CD8+ T cells represent a subpopulation with potent effector/memory functions. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that kidney allograft rejection may be linked to an imbalance of effector/memory and regulatory immune cells.METHODS: Based on a large cohort of more than 1000 kidney graft biopsies with concomitant peripheral blood lymphocyte phenotyping, we investigated the association between kidney graft rejection and the percentage and absolute number of circulating B cells, Tregs, as well as the ratio of B cells to CD28-CD8+ T cells and the ratio of CD28-CD8+ T cells to Tregs. Kidney graft biopsies were interpreted according to the Banff classification and divided into 5 biopsies groups: 1) normal/subnormal, 2) interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy grade 2/3 (IFTA), 3) antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR), 4) T cell mediated-rejection (TCMR), and 5) borderline rejection. We compared group 1 with the other groups as well as with a combined group 3, 4, and 5 (rejection of all types) using multivariable linear mixed models.RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: We found that compared to normal/subnormal biopsies, rejection of all types was marginally associated with a decrease in the percentage of circulating B cells (p=0.06) and significantly associated with an increase in the ratio of CD28-CD8+ T cells to Tregs (p=0.01). Moreover, ABMR, TCMR (p=0.007), and rejection of all types (p=0.0003) were significantly associated with a decrease in the ratio of B cells to CD28-CD8+ T cells compared to normal/subnormal biopsies. Taken together, our results show that kidney allograft rejection is associated with an imbalance between immune cells with effector/memory functions and those with regulatory properties.
The neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) has been extensively studied in patients with gastric cancer (GC) treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), although the results are controversial. Therefore, we performed the present meta-analysis to systematically assess the correlation between NLR and prognosis and clinicopathological factors in GC patients undergoing treatment with ICIs. Among the electronic databases, PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, and Cochrane Library were thoroughly searched. To estimate the prognostic value of NLR for progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), hazard ratios (HRs) were calculated, and their 95% confidence intervals were calculated. This meta-analysis included 10 studies with 830 patients. Based on the pooled data, a high NLR was associated with poor OS in GC patients receiving ICIs (HR = 2.13, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.70-2.66, p < 0.001). Elevated NLR was a significant biomarker for worse PFS in GC patients treated with ICIs (HR = 1.74, 95% CI = 1.22-2.48, p = 0.002). There was, however, no significant correlation between NLR and sex, age, and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (PS) of the ECOG, differentiation, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status, or PD-L1 status in GC patients treated with ICIs. High NLR before treatment was associated with poor OS and PFS in GC patients treated with ICIs, according to our meta-analysis. NLR is an effective biomarker for evaluating the prognosis of GC patients receiving ICIs and provide more valuable information for treatment decisions in the era of immunotherapy for GC.
The field of immuno-oncology has revolutionized cancer patient care and improved survival and quality of life for patients. Much of the focus in the field has been on exploiting the power of the adaptive immune response through therapeutic targeting of T cells. While these approaches have markedly advanced the field, some challenges remain, and the clinical benefit of T cell therapies does not extend to all patients or tumor indications. Alternative strategies, such as engaging the innate immune system, have become an intense area of focus in the field. In particular, the engagement of natural killer (NK) cells as potent effectors of the innate immune response has emerged as a promising modality in immunotherapy. Here, we review therapeutic approaches for selective engagement of NK cells for cancer therapy, with a particular focus on targeting the key activating receptors NK Group 2D (NKG2D) and cluster of differentiation 16A (CD16A).
Author information:(1)Center for Medical Integration and Practice, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan 250012. zqq960825@163.com.(2)Department of Medical Imaging, Shandong Provincial Hospital, Jinan 250021, China.(3)Center for Medical Integration and Practice, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan 250012.(4)Center for Medical Integration and Practice, Cheeloo College of Medicine, Shandong University, Jinan 250012. chuanxiwang@126.com.
The objectives of this study were to evaluate the abundance and viability of leukocytes, the abundance of microRNA, and the activity of the complement pathway in (1) colostrum following heat-treatment or freezing, and (2) colostrum, transition milk, and mature milk. In experiment 1, composite colostrum samples were harvested from individual cows (n = 14) on a commercial dairy farm in NY and split into 3 aliquots using single-use colostrum bags. One aliquot was immediately cooled on ice following harvest (RAW) and stored at 4°C overnight, one was heat-treated for 60 min at 60°C (HT) before being cooled on ice and stored at 4°C overnight, and one was frozen at -20°C overnight (FR). The following morning, all samples were warmed to 40°C before further processing. In experiment 2, cows were sampled in a longitudinal study where composite samples were collected from colostrum (first milking, n = 23), transition milk (3 to 4 d postpartum, n = 13), and mature milk (6 to 7 d postpartum, n = 13). In both experiments colostrum was harvested from the first milking within 8 h of calving and samples were processed within 14 h of collection. Colostral leukocytes were isolated before viability was determined by trypan blue exclusion and manual differential cell counts were performed. Extracellular vesicles were isolated from whey by ultracentrifugation to isolate and quantify microRNA. Activity of the alternative complement pathway was determined in casein-depleted whey by semi-solid phase hemolysis assay. Somatic cell counts were determined for all raw samples. Macrophages and neutrophils made up the greatest proportion of leukocytes in colostrum followed by lymphocytes. Lymphocyte proportion increased as colostrum transitioned to mature milk, but overall somatic cell numbers declined concurrently. Viable cells were not isolated from HT or FR samples. Abundance of microRNA isolated from transition and mature milk was decreased compared with colostrum, did not differ between HT and RAW, but was increased in FR compared with RAW. Alternative complement pathway activity was decreased in HT, but not FR compared with RAW, and was not measurable in transition or mature milk. Postharvest heat-treatment and freezing of colostrum eliminated viable colostral leukocytes and affected microRNA abundance and complement activity. Leukocyte proportions, microRNA abundance, and complement activity changed as colostrum transitioned to mature milk. Although there were clear changes in the colostral components under study in relation to treatment and transition to mature milk, the biological significance of the described treatment effects and temporal changes were not investigated here.
We examined the effects of polymethoxyflavonoids (PMFs) on T helper (Th) 17 cell differentiation in vitro and in vivo. Five different PMFs including nobiletin (NOB), sudachitin (SUD), demethoxysudachitin, heptamethoxyflavone and natsudaidain were used for the in vitro study, and effects of those flavonoids on Th17 responses were investigated. NOB and heptamethoxyflavone significantly suppressed the proliferation response, but SUD, demethoxysudachitin and natsudaidain did not suppress the proliferation response. All of the five flavonoids decreased IL-17A production. Mice with experimentally induced autoimmune encephalomyelitis were used as an in vivo Th17 differentiation model. We focused on two flavonoids, NOB and SUD, and examined the effects of those flavonoids. NOB significantly suppressed Th17 cell proliferation and cytokine responses, but SUD only decreased proliferation responses. The results suggest that the suppressive effect of NOB on Th17 response in vivo is stronger than that of SUD. J. Med. Invest. 70 : 166-170, February, 2023.
Monocytes can differentiate into tissue-resident pleural macrophages, but the mechanisms underlying this process are not yet fully understood. In this issue of Immunity, Finlay et al.1 show that Th2 cytokines promote this differentiation in resistant mice infected with Litomosoides sigmodontis.
The intrinsic and acquired resistance to PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint blockade is an important challenge for patients and clinicians because no reliable tool has been developed to predict individualized response to immunotherapy. In this study, we demonstrate the translational relevance of an ex vivo functional assay that measures the tumor cell killing ability of patient-derived CD8 T and NK cells (referred to as "cytotoxic lymphocytes," or CLs) isolated from the peripheral blood of patients with renal cell carcinoma. Patient-derived PBMCs were isolated before and after nephrectomy from patients with renal cell carcinoma. We compared the efficacy of U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors (pembrolizumab, nivolumab, atezolizumab) and a newly developed PD-L1 inhibitor (H1A Ab) in eliciting cytotoxic function. CL activity was improved at 3 mo after radical nephrectomy compared with baseline, and it was associated with higher circulating levels of tumor-reactive effector CD8 T cells (CD11ahighCX3CR1+GZMB+). Treatment of PBMCs with FDA-approved PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors enhanced tumor cell killing activity of CLs, but a differential response was observed at the individual-patient level. H1A demonstrated superior efficacy in promoting CL activity compared with FDA-approved PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. PBMC immunophenotyping by mass cytometry revealed enrichment of effector CD8 T and NK cells in H1A-treated PBMCs and immunosuppressive regulatory T cells in atezolizumab-treated samples. Our study lays the ground for future investigation of the therapeutic value of H1A as a next-generation immune checkpoint inhibitor and the potential of measuring CTL activity in PBMCs as a tool to predict individual response to immune checkpoint inhibitors in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma.
Ferroptotic cell death is a regulated process that is governed by iron-dependent membrane lipid peroxide accumulation that plays a pathogenic role in several disease-related settings. The use of ferroptosis-related genes (FRGs) to distinguish active tuberculosis (ATB) from latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) among children, however, remains to be analysed. Tuberculosis-related gene expression data and FRG lists were obtained, respectively, from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and FerrDb. Differentially expressed FRGs (DE-FRGs) detected when comparing samples from paediatric ATB and LTBI patients were explored using appropriate bioinformatics techniques, after which enrichment analyses were performed for these genes and hub genes were identified, with these genes then being used to explore potential drug interactions and construct competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) networks. The GSE39939 dataset yielded 124 DE-FRGs that were primarily related to responses to oxidative, chemical and extracellular stimulus-associated stress. In total, the LASSO and SVM-RFE algorithms enabled the identification of nine hub genes (MAPK14, EGLN2, IDO1, USP11, SCD, CBS, PARP8, PARP16, CDC25A) that exhibited good diagnostic utility. Functional enrichment analyses of these genes suggested that they may govern ATB transition from LTBI through the control of many pathways, including the immune response, DNA repair, transcription, RNA degradation, and glycan and energy metabolism pathways. The CIBERSORT algorithm suggested that these genes were positively correlated with inflammatory and myeloid cell activity while being negatively correlated with the activity of lymphocytes. A total of 50 candidate drugs targeting 6 hub DE-FRGs were also identified, and a ceRNA network was used to explore the complex interplay among these hub genes. The nine hub FRGs defined in this study may serve as valuable biomarkers differentiating between ATB and LTBI in young patients.
In this retrospective study, we analyzed the expression of lymphocyte activating gene 3 (LAG-3) and fibrinogen-like protein 1 (FGP1) mRNA and the corresponding proteins in 78 patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) to evaluate the clinical significance and prognostic value. mRNA and protein expression were analyzed by reverse transcription PCR and Western blotting, respectively. The expression of LAG-3 and FGL1 mRNA and the corresponding proteins in tumor tissues were significantly increased in comparison with the normal esophageal mucosa. The overexpression of LAG-3 significantly correlated with the content of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), tumor differentiation, and TNM stage. The overexpression of FGL1 also significantly correlated with TILs, TNM stage, and lymph node metastasis. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that tumor diameter, TNM stage, lymph node metastasis, LAG-3 and FGL1 protein expression were related to the progression-free survival (p<0.05). Multivariate Cox regression showed that the level of FGL1 and TNM stage were independent prognostic factors of progression-free survival. We speculated that the tumor microenvironment of ESCC induces immunosuppression due to up-regulated expression of LAG-3 and FGL1 in the tumor tissues, which promotes tumor growth.
Complete spontaneous tumor regression (without treatment) is well documented to occur in animals and humans as epidemiological analysis show, whereby the malignancy is permanently eliminated. We have developed a novel computational systems biology model for this unique phenomenon to furnish insight into the possibility of therapeutically replicating such regression processes on tumors clinically, without toxic side effects. We have formulated oncological informatics approach using cell-kinetics coupled differential equations while protecting normal tissue. We investigated three main tumor-lysis components: (ⅰ) DNA blockade factors, (ⅱ) Interleukin-2 (IL-2), and (ⅲ) Cytotoxic T-cells (CD8+ T). We studied the temporal variations of these factors, utilizing preclinical experimental investigations on malignant tumors, using mammalian melanoma microarray and histiocytoma immunochemical assessment. We found that permanent tumor regression can occur by: 1) Negative-Bias shift in population trajectory of tumor cells, eradicating them under first-order asymptotic kinetics, and 2) Temporal alteration in the three antitumor components (DNA replication-blockade, Antitumor T-lymphocyte, IL-2), which are respectively characterized by the following patterns: (a) Unimodal Inverted-U function, (b) Bimodal M-function, (c) Stationary-step function. These provide a time-wise orchestrated tri-phasic cytotoxic profile. We have also elucidated gene-expression levels corresponding to the above three components: (ⅰ) DNA-damage G2/M checkpoint regulation [genes: CDC2-CHEK], (ⅱ) Chemokine signaling: IL-2/15 [genes: IL2RG-IKT3], (ⅲ) T-lymphocyte signaling (genes: TRGV5-CD28). All three components quantitatively followed the same activation profiles predicted by our computational model (Smirnov-Kolmogorov statistical test satisfied, α = 5%). We have shown that the genes CASP7-GZMB are signatures of Negative-bias dynamics, enabling eradication of the residual tumor. Using the negative-biasing principle, we have furnished the dose-time profile of equivalent therapeutic agents (DNA-alkylator, IL-2, T-cell input) so that melanoma tumor may therapeutically undergo permanent extinction by replicating the spontaneous tumor regression dynamics.
Continuous lighting for 14 days (functional pinealectomy model) leads to a decrease in the relative number of CD3low and CD3hi T lymphocytes and the CD3low/CD3hi ratio in the thymus of C57BL/6 mice. Intragastric administration of melatonin in physiological doses (1 mg/kg body weight, 14 days) against the background of functional pinealectomy restores the percentage of CD3low and CD3hi thymocytes and CD3low/CD3hi ratio to the control values. Hence, prolonged continuous illumination inhibits the differentiation and maturation of young thymocytes into mature forms, while melatonin treatment helps to compensate the effects of functional pinealectomy triggering cell proliferation in the thymus from the earliest stages of proliferation and differentiation of T cells. Thus, melatonin has immunotropic properties and can be used for correction of the consequences of functional pinealectomy.
Autologous and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) has revolutionized the therapy of hematolymphoid malignancies. Yet, how to best detect or predict the emergence of HSCT-related complications remain unresolved. Here, we describe a case of donor-derived, transient Alpha Beta (αβ) T-cell large granular clonal lymphocytosis and cytopenia that emerged post-HSCT in a patient with a history of gamma delta (γδ) T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia (T-LGLL). Clonal unrelatedness of post-transplant T-LGL lymphocytosis to the patient's pretransplant T-LGLL was first identified by T-cell receptor (TCR) PCR showing different sized fragments of rearranged gamma chains, in addition to shift from γδ to αβ TCR expression by flow cytometry analyses. Donor-derivation of the patient's post-transplant clonal lymphocytosis was confirmed by serial chimerism analyses of recipient's blood specimens demonstrating 100% donor DNA. Moreover, oncogenic DNMT3A and RUNX1 mutations were detected by next-generation sequencing (NGS) only in post-transplant specimens. Intriguingly, despite continued increase in DNMT3A and RUNX1 mutation load, the patient's clonal lymphocytosis and anemia eventually largely resolved; yet, the observed mutation profile with persistent thrombocytopenia indicated secondary clonal cytopenia of undetermined significance (CCUS) in the absence of overt morphologic evidence of myeloid neoplasm in the marrow. This case illustrates the utility of longitudinal chimerism analysis and NGS testing combined with flow cytometric immunophenotyping to evaluate emerging donor-derived hematolymphoid processes and to properly interpret partial functional engraftment. It may also support the notion that driver mutation-induced microenvironmental changes may paradoxically contribute to reestablishing tissue homeostasis.
Although the differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) into various types of blood cells has been well established, approaches for clinical-scale production of multipotent hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) remain challenging. We found that hiPSCs cocultured with stromal cells as spheroids (hematopoietic spheroids [Hp-spheroids]) can grow in a stirred bioreactor and develop into yolk sac-like organoids without the addition of exogenous factors. Hp-spheroid-induced organoids recapitulated a yolk sac-characteristic cellular complement and structures as well as the functional ability to generate HPCs with lympho-myeloid potential. Moreover, sequential hemato-vascular ontogenesis could also be observed during organoid formation. We demonstrated that organoid-induced HPCs can be differentiated into erythroid cells, macrophages, and T lymphocytes with current maturation protocols. Notably, the Hp-spheroid system can be performed in an autologous and xeno-free manner, thereby improving the feasibility of bulk production of hiPSC-derived HPCs in clinical, therapeutic contexts.
Invasive ductal carcinoma of no special type is the most common type of breast cancer. In light of the above, many authors have reported the histological and electron microscopic characteristics of these tumors. On the other hand, a limited number of works exist where the authors have concentrated on investigating the extracellular matrix. This article presents data received as the results of light and electron microscopic examination of the extracellular matrix, angiogenesis, and cellular microenvironment of invasive breast ductal carcinoma of no special type. The authors have shown that the processes of stroma formation in the IDC NOS type are associated with the presence of fibroblasts, macrophages, dendritic cells, lymphocytes, and other cells. It was also shown the detailed interaction of the above cells with each other, as well as with vessels and fibrillar proteins such as collagen and elastin. The microcirculatory component is characterized by histophysiological heterogeneity, which manifests as the activation of angiogenesis, relative vascular differentiation, and regression of individual microcirculation components.
Comment on    doi: 10.1084/jem.20222090.
PURPOSE: Hyper activation of the JAK-STAT signaling underlies the pathophysiology of many human immune-mediated diseases. Herein, the study of 2 adult patients with SOCS1 haploinsufficiency illustrates the severe and pleomorphic consequences of its impaired regulation in the intestinal tract.METHODS: Two unrelated adult patients presented with gastrointestinal manifestations, one with Crohn's disease-like ileo-colic inflammation refractory to anti-TNF and the other with lymphocytic leiomyositis causing severe chronic intestinal pseudo-occlusion. Next-generation sequencing was used to identify the underlying monogenic defect. One patient received anti-IL-12/IL-23 treatment while the other received the JAK1 inhibitor, ruxolitinib. Peripheral blood, intestinal tissues, and serum samples were analyzed before-and-after JAK1 inhibitor therapy using mass cytometry, histology, transcriptomic, and Olink assay.RESULTS: Novel germline loss-of-function variants in SOCS1 were identified in both patients. The patient with Crohn-like disease achieved clinical remission with anti-IL-12/IL-23 treatment. In the second patient with lymphocytic leiomyositis, ruxolitinib induced rapid resolution of the obstructive symptoms, significant decrease of the CD8+ T lymphocyte muscular infiltrate, and normalization of serum and intestinal cytokines. Decreased frequencies of circulating Treg cells, MAIT cells, and NK cells, with altered CD56bright:CD16lo:CD16hi NK subtype ratios were not modified by ruxolitinib.CONCLUSION: SOCS1 haploinsufficiency can result in a broad spectrum of intestinal manifestations and need to be considered as differential diagnosis in cases of severe treatment-refractory enteropathies, including the rare condition of lymphocytic leiomyositis. This provides the rationale for genetic screening and considering JAK inhibitors in such cases.
Fibroblast specific protein 1 (FSP1)/S100A4 is a calcium binding protein which has been linked to epithelial-mesenchymal transition, tissue fibrosis, pulmonary vascular disease, metastatic tumour development, increased tumour cell motility and invasiveness. This protein is reported to be also expressed in newly formed and differentiated fibroblasts and has been used in various studies to demonstrate epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). We aimed to characterize S100A4 positive cells in different human tissue compartments, with the focus on fibroblasts/myofibroblast. We found S100A4 expression in a wide range of cells. Fibroblasts/myofibroblasts showed a broad spectrum of staining intensity, ranging from negative to strong expression of S100A4, with the strongest expression in smooth muscle actin positive myofibroblasts. Cells of haematopoietic lineage, namely CD4 and CD8 positive T-lymphocytes, but not B-lymphocytes expressed S100A4. All investigated monocytes, macrophages and specialised histiocytes were positive for S100A4. Even some epithelial cells of the kidney and bladder were positive for S100A4. Expression was also found in the vasculature. Here, cells of the subendothelial space, tunica adventitia and some smooth muscle cells of the tunica media were positive for S100A4. In summary, S100A4 is expressed in various cell types of different lineage and is not, as originally believed, specific for fibroblasts (FSP). Results attained under the premise of specificity of FSP1/S100A4 for fibroblasts, like the founding research on EMT type 2 in kidney and liver, therefore need to be reinterpreted.
Rationale: TOX is a DNA-binding factor required for the development of multiple immune cells and the formation of lymph nodes. However, the temporal regulation mode of TOX on NK cell development and function needs to be further explored. Methods: To investigate the role of TOX in NK cells at distinct developmental phases, we deleted TOX at the hematopoietic stem cell stage (Vav-Cre), NK cell precursor (CD122-Cre) stage and late NK cell developmental stage (Ncr1-Cre), respectively. Flow cytometry was used to detect the development and functional changes of NK cell when deletion of TOX. RNA-seq was used to assess the differences in transcriptional expression profile of WT and TOX-deficient NK cells. Published Chip-seq data was exploited to search for the proteins directly interact with TOX in NK cells. Results: The deficiency of TOX at the hematopoietic stem cell stage severely retarded NK cell development. To a less extent, TOX also played an essential role in the physiological process of NKp cells differentiation into mature NK cells. Furthermore, the deletion of TOX at NKp stage severely impaired the immune surveillance function of NK cells, accompanied by down-regulation of IFN-γ and CD107a expression. However, TOX is dispensable for mature NK cell development and function. Mechanistically, by combining RNA-seq data with published TOX ChIP-seq data, we found that the inactivation of TOX at NKp stage directly repressed the expression of Mst1, an important intermediate kinase in Hippo signaling pathway. Mst1 deficient at NKp stage gained the similar phenotype with Toxfl/flCD122Cre mice. Conclusion: In our study, we conclude that TOX coordinates the early mouse NK cell development at NKp stage by maintaining the expression of Mst1. Moreover, we clarify the different dependence of the transcription factor TOX in NK cells biology.
Leprosy is a chronic bacterial disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae. Leprosy patients have been found to have defects in T cells activation, which is critical to the clearance of the bacilli. Treg cell suppression is mediated by inhibitory cytokines such as IL10, IL-35 and TGF-β and its frequency is higher in leprosy patients. Activation and overexpression of programmed death 1 (PD-1) receptor is considered to one of the pathways to inhibit T-cell response in human leprosy. In the current study we address the effect of PD-1 on Tregs function and its immuno-suppressive function in leprosy patients. Flow cytometry was used to evaluate the expression of PD-1 and its ligands on various immune cells T cells, B cells, Tregs and monocytes. We observed higher expression of PD-1 on Tregs is associated with lower production of IL-10 in leprosy patients. PD-1 ligands on T cells, B cells, Tregs and monocytes found to be higher in the leprosy patients as compared to healthy controls. Furthermore, in vitro blocking of PD-1 restores the Tregs mediated suppression of Teff and increase secretion of immunosuppressive cytokine IL-10. Moreover, overexpression of PD-1 positively correlates with disease severity as well as Bacteriological Index (BI) among leprosy patients. Collectively, our data suggested that PD-1 overexpression on various immune cells is associated with disease severity in human leprosy. Manipulation and inhibition of PD-1 signaling pathway on Tregs alter and restore the Treg cell suppression activity in leprosy patients.
Systemic delivery of nanoparticles (NPs) coated with mono-specific autoimmune disease-relevant peptide-major histocompatibility complex class II (pMHCII) molecules can resolve organ inflammation in various disease models in a disease-specific manner without impairing normal immunity. These compounds invariably trigger the formation and systemic expansion of cognate pMHCII-specific T-regulatory type 1 (TR1) cells. By focusing on type 1 diabetes (T1D)-relevant pMHCII-NP types that display an epitope from the insulin B-chain bound to the same MHCII molecule (IAg7) on three different registers, we show that pMHCII-NP-induced TR1 cells invariably co-exist with cognate T-Follicular Helper (TFH)-like cells of quasi-identical clonotypic composition and are oligoclonal, yet transcriptionally homogeneous. Furthermore, these three different TR1 specificities have similar diabetes reversal properties in vivo despite being uniquely reactive against the peptide MHCII-binding register displayed on the NPs. Thus, pMHCII-NP treatment using nanomedicines displaying different epitope specificities results in the simultaneous differentiation of multiple antigen-specific TFH-like cell clones into TR1-like cells that inherit the fine antigenic specificity of their precursors while acquiring a defined transcriptional immunoregulatory program.
In the past decades, advances in the use of adoptive cellular therapy to treat cancer have led to unprecedented responses in patients with relapsed/refractory or late-stage malignancies. However, cellular exhaustion and senescence limit the efficacy of FDA-approved T-cell therapies in patients with hematologic malignancies and the widespread application of this approach in treating patients with solid tumors. Investigators are addressing the current obstacles by focusing on the manufacturing process of effector T cells, including engineering approaches and ex vivo expansion strategies to regulate T-cell differentiation. Here we reviewed the current small-molecule strategies to enhance T-cell expansion, persistence, and functionality during ex vivo manufacturing. We further discussed the synergistic benefits of the dual-targeting approaches and proposed novel vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor antagonists (VIPR-ANT) peptides as emerging candidates to enhance cell-based immunotherapy.
Members of the Regulator of G-protein signaling (Rgs) family regulate the extent and timing of G protein signaling by increasing the GTPase activity of Gα protein subunits. The Rgs family member Rgs1 is one of the most up-regulated genes in tissue-resident memory (TRM) T cells when compared to their circulating T cell counterparts. Functionally, Rgs1 preferentially deactivates Gαq, and Gαi protein subunits and can therefore also attenuate chemokine receptor-mediated immune cell trafficking. The impact of Rgs1 expression on tissue-resident T cell generation, their maintenance, and the immunosurveillance of barrier tissues, however, is only incompletely understood. Here we report that Rgs1 expression is readily induced in naïve OT-I T cells in vivo following intestinal infection with Listeria monocytogenes-OVA. In bone marrow chimeras, Rgs1 -/- and Rgs1 +/+ T cells were generally present in comparable frequencies in distinct T cell subsets of the intestinal mucosa, mesenteric lymph nodes, and spleen. After intestinal infection with Listeria monocytogenes-OVA, however, OT-I Rgs1 +/+ T cells outnumbered the co-transferred OT-I Rgs1- /- T cells in the small intestinal mucosa already early after infection. The underrepresentation of the OT-I Rgs1 -/- T cells persisted to become even more pronounced during the memory phase (d30 post-infection). Remarkably, upon intestinal reinfection, mice with intestinal OT-I Rgs1 +/+ TRM cells were able to prevent the systemic dissemination of the pathogen more efficiently than those with OT-I Rgs1 -/- TRM cells. While the underlying mechanisms are not fully elucidated yet, these data thus identify Rgs1 as a critical regulator for the generation and maintenance of tissue-resident CD8+ T cells as a prerequisite for efficient local immunosurveillance in barrier tissues in case of reinfections with potential pathogens.
INTRODUCTION: Although children seem to be less susceptible to COVID-19, some of them develop a rare but serious hyperinflammatory condition called multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). While several studies describe the clinical conditions of acute MIS-C, the status of convalescent patients in the months after acute MIS-C is still unclear, especially the question of persistence of changes in the specific subpopulations of immune cells in the convalescent phase of the disease.METHODS: We therefore analyzed peripheral blood of 14 children with MIS-C at the onset of the disease (acute phase) and 2 to 6 months after disease onset (post-acute convalescent phase) for lymphocyte subsets and antigen-presenting cell (APC) phenotype. The results were compared with six healthy age-matched controls.RESULTS: All major lymphocyte populations (B cells, CD4 + and CD8+ T cells, and NK cells) were decreased in the acute phase and normalized in the convalescent phase. T cell activation was increased in the acute phase, followed by an increased proportion of γ/δ-double-negative T cells (γ/δ DN Ts) in the convalescent phase. B cell differentiation was impaired in the acute phase with a decreased proportion of CD21 expressing, activated/memory, and class-switched memory B cells, which normalized in the convalescent phase. The proportion of plasmacytoid dendritic cells, conventional type 2 dendritic cells, and classical monocytes were decreased, while the proportion of conventional type 1 dendritic cells was increased in the acute phase. Importantly the population of plasmacytoid dendritic cells remained decreased in the convalescent phase, while other APC populations normalized. Immunometabolic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in the convalescent MIS-C showed comparable mitochondrial respiration and glycolysis rates to healthy controls.CONCLUSIONS: While both immunophenotyping and immunometabolic analyzes showed that immune cells in the convalescent MIS-C phase normalized in many parameters, we found lower percentage of plasmablasts, lower expression of T cell co-receptors (CD3, CD4, and CD8), an increased percentage of γ/δ DN Ts and increased metabolic activity of CD3/CD28-stimulated T cells. Overall, the results suggest that inflammation persists for months after the onset of MIS-C, with significant alterations in some immune system parameters, which may also impair immune defense against viral infections.
AIM: The C-reactive protein (CRP)-albumin-lymphocyte (CALLY) index is a novel inflammation-based biomarker, which has been associated with long-term outcomes in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. We aimed to investigate whether the CALLY index can predict the prognosis for distal cholangiocarcinoma after pancreaticoduodenectomy.METHODS: The study comprised 143 patients who had undergone primary pancreaticoduodenectomy for distal cholangiocarcinoma between 2002 to 2019. The CALLY index was defined as (albumin × lymphocyte)/ (CRP × 104). We investigated the association of CALLY index with disease-free survival and overall survival by univariate and multivariate analyses.RESULTS: Eighty-seven (61%) patients had a preoperative CALLY index <3.5. In multivariate analysis, obstructive jaundice drainage (P < .01), poorly differentiated tumor (P < .01), and CALLY index<3.5 (P = .02) were independent predictors of disease-free survival, while obstructive jaundice drainage (P < .01), poorly differentiated tumor (P < .01), and CALLY index <3.5 (P = .02) were independent predictors of overall survival.CONCLUSION: The CALLY index may be an independent and significant indicator of poor long-term outcomes in patients with distal cholangiocarcinoma after pancreaticoduodenectomy, suggesting the importance of comprehensive assessment for inflammatory status.
BACKGROUND: Sepsis is characterised by multi-organ failure due to an uncontrolled immune response to infection. Sepsis prevalence is increased in developing countries and requires prompt diagnosis and treatment. Reports, although controversial, suggest that full blood count parameters and cell ratios could assist in the early screening for sepsis.OBJECTIVE: The study evaluated the use of haematological cell ratios in screening for sepsis in a South African population.METHODS: The study retrospectively analysed the complete blood counts, blood cultures (BC) and biochemical test results of 125 adult patients who presented between January 2021 and July 2021 at a hospital in Cape Town. An ISO15189-accredited laboratory performed all of the tests. We compared and correlated the automated differential counts, neutrophil, monocyte and platelet-to-lymphocyte ratios with procalcitonin levels. A p-value of < 0.05 was considered significant.RESULTS: Sixty-two sepsis patients (procalcitonin > 2 ng/L and positive BC) were identified and compared to 63 non-sepsis controls. All cell ratios were significantly elevated in sepsis patients (p < 0.001). However, the two groups had no significant difference in absolute monocyte counts (p = 0.377). In addition, no correlation was detected between any cell ratios and procalcitonin.CONCLUSION: In combination with complete blood count parameters, haematology cell ratios can be used for early sepsis detection. The full blood count is widely available, inexpensive, and routinely requested by emergency care clinicians. Although procalcitonin and BC remain the gold standard, the calculation of cell ratios could provide a simple screening tool for the early detection of sepsis.WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS: This study adds evidence to the proposal that calculating haematological cell ratios assists in the early screening of sepsis in a South African setting.
Hodgkin lymphoma is a B-cell neoplasm that typically presents with localized, nodal disease. Tissues are characterized by few large neoplastic cells, usually comprising less than 10% of tissue cellularity, present in a background of abundant nonneoplastic inflammatory cells. This inflammatory microenvironment, although key to the pathogenesis, can make diagnosis a challenge because reactive conditions, lymphoproliferative diseases, and other lymphoid neoplasms may mimic Hodgkin lymphoma and vice versa. This review provides an overview of the classification of Hodgkin lymphoma, its differential diagnosis, including emerging and recently recognized entities, and strategies to resolve challenging dilemmas and avoid diagnostic pitfalls.
Thymic hyperplasia is a rare condition generally caused by lymphoid follicular hyperplasia associated with autoimmune disorders. "True" thymic parenchymal hyperplasia unassociated with lymphoid follicular hyperplasia is extremely rare and may give rise to difficulties for diagnosis. We have studied 44 patients with "true" thymic hyperplasia (38 females and 6 males) aged 7 months to 64 years (mean: 36). 18 patients presented with symptoms of chest discomfort or shortness of breath; in 20 patients the lesions were discovered incidentally. Imaging studies demonstrated enlargement of the mediastinum by a mass lesion suspicious for malignancy. All patients were treated with complete surgical excision; the tumors measured from 3.5 - 24 cm (median: 10 cm; mean: 10.46). Histological examination showed lobules of thymic tissue displaying well-developed cortico-medullary architecture with scattered Hassall's corpuscles separated by mature adipose tissue and bounded by a thin fibrous capsule. No cases showed evidence of lymphoid follicular hyperplasia, cytologic atypia, or confluence of the lobules. Immunohistochemical studies showed a normal pattern of distribution for keratin+ thymic epithelial cells against a background rich in CD3/TdT/CD1a+ lymphocytes. 29 cases had an initial clinical or pathological diagnosis of thymoma or thymoma vs. thymic hyperplasia. Clinical follow-up in 26 cases showed that all patients were alive and well between 5-15 years after diagnosis (mean: 9 years). Thymic parenchymal hyperplasia causing significant enlargement of the normal thymus sufficient to cause symptoms or worrisome imaging findings should be considered in the differential diagnosis of anterior mediastinal masses. Criteria for distinguishing such lesions from lymphocyte-rich thymoma are presented.
Vaccination with live attenuated Leishmania parasites such as centrin deleted Leishmania donovani (LdCen-/-) against visceral leishmaniasis has been reported extensively. The protection induced by LdCen-/- parasites was mediated by both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. While the host immune mediators of protection are known, parasite determinants that affect the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell populations remain unknown. Parasite encoded inflammatory cytokine MIF has been shown to modulate the T cell differentiation characteristics by altering the inflammation induced apoptosis during contraction phase in experimental infections with Leishmania or Plasmodium. Neutralization of parasite encoded MIF either by antibodies or gene deletion conferred protection in Plasmodium and Leishmania studies. We investigated if the immunogenicity and protection induced by LdCen-/- parasites is affected by deleting MIF genes from this vaccine strain. Our results showed that LdCen-/-MIF-/- immunized group presented higher percentage of CD4+ and CD8+ central memory T cells, increased CD8+ T cell proliferation after challenge compared to LdCen-/- immunization. LdCen-/-MIF-/- immunized group presented elevated production of IFN-γ+ and TNF-α+ CD4+ T cells concomitant with a reduced parasite load in spleen and liver compared to LdCen-/-group following challenge with L. infantum. Our results demonstrate the role of parasite induced factors involved in protection and long-term immunity of vaccines against VL.
BACKGROUND: The immune system constitutes a sensory system both for heritable and non-heritable factors. Among the latter, social and environmental determinants of health may influence and shape the immune system in early life. To study the relationship between leukocytes and determinants of health in adolescence, we assessed total and differential white blood cells (WBC) according to social and environmental determinants of health in a healthy adolescent population.METHODS: As part of the population-based cohort Epidemiological Health Investigation of Teenagers in Porto (EPITeen), 1213 adolescents were evaluated at the age of 13. Total and differential WBC were evaluated through a venous blood sample using an automated blood counter (Sysmex®XE-5000, Hyogo, Japan). Sociodemographic, behavioral, and clinical data were collected through self-administered questionnaires.RESULTS: Participants with better socioeconomic conditions (enrolled at private schools or higher parental education) had significantly lower total WBC levels, and the latter showed a lower percentage of neutrophils and higher percentage of lymphocytes. Those who practiced sports had significantly lower total WBC levels and neutrophil percentage, as well as a significantly higher percentage of eosinophils and lymphocytes. Adolescents with chronic disease, chronic medication, or allergic diseases had a significantly higher percentage of eosinophils and a lower percentage of monocytes. With increasing body mass index and systemic inflammation, we found a significant increase in total WBC levels.CONCLUSION: WBC linked to different immune response patterns are associated with several social and environmental determinants of health in adolescence.
The imbalance of Th17 and Treg cell differentiation, intestinal flora imbalance, and intestinal mucosal barrier damage may be important links in the occurrence and development of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) since Th17 and Treg differentiation are affected by the intestinal flora. This study aimed to explore the effect of Escherichia coli (E. coli) LF82 on the differentiation of Th17 and Treg cells and the role of the intestinal flora in mouse colitis. The effects of E. coli LF82 infection on intestinal inflammation were evaluated by analyzing the disease activity index, histology, myeloperoxidase activity, FITC-D fluorescence value, and claudin-1 and ZO-1 expression. The effects of E. coli LF82 on the Th17/Treg balance and intestinal flora were analyzed by flow cytometry and 16S rDNA sequencing. Inflammatory markers, changes in the intestinal flora, and Th17/Treg cells were then detected after transplanting fecal bacteria from normal mice into colitis mice infected by E. coli LF82. We found that E. coli LF82 infection can aggravate the intestinal inflammation of mice colitis, destroy their intestinal mucosal barrier, increase intestinal mucosal permeability, and aggravate the imbalance of Th17/Treg differentiation and the disorder of intestinal flora. After improving the intestinal flora imbalance by fecal bacteria transplantation, intestinal inflammation and intestinal mucosal barrier damage were reduced, and the differentiation balance of Th17 and Treg cells was restored. This study showed that E. coli LF82 infection aggravates intestinal inflammation and intestinal mucosal barrier damage in colitis by affecting the intestinal flora composition and indirectly regulating the Th17 and Treg cell differentiation balance.
Fistulation is a helpful procedure in animal nutritional research and also common practise in human medicine. However, there are indications that alterations in the upper gastrointestinal tract contribute to intestinal immune modulations. The present study aimed to investigate effects of a rumen cannulation in week 3 of life on the intestinal and tissue specific immune system of 34-week old heifers. Nutrition influences the development of the neonatal intestinal immune system to a high extent. Therefore, rumen cannulation was investigated in combination with different pre-weaning milk feeding intensities (20% (20MR) vs. 10% milk replacer feeding (10MR). Heifers of 20MR without rumen cannula (NRC) showed higher cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T cell subsets in mesenteric lymph nodes (MSL) compared to heifers with rumen cannula (RC) and 10MRNRC heifers. CD4+ T cell subsets in jejunal intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) were higher in 10MRNRC heifers compared to 10MRRC heifers. CD4+ T cell subsets in ileal IELs were lower and CD21+ B cell subsets were higher in NRC heifers compared to RC heifers. CD8+ T cell subsets in spleen tended to be lower in 20MRNRC heifers compared to all other groups. Splenic CD21+ B cell subsets were higher in 20MRNRC heifers compared to RC heifers. Splenic toll like receptor (TLR) 6 expression was increased and IL4 expression tended to be increased in RC heifers than NRC heifers. Splenic TLR2, 3 and 10 gene expression was higher in 20MR compared to 10MR heifers. Jejunal prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase 2 expression was higher in RC heifers than NRC heifers, and MUC2 expression tended to increase in 20MR heifers compared to 10MR heifers. In conclusion, rumen cannulation modulated T and B cell subsets in the down streaming gastrointestinal tract and spleen. Pre-weaning feeding intensity seemed to affect intestinal mucin secretion and T and B cell subsets in MSL, spleen and thymus until several month later. Interestingly, in MSL, spleen and thymus the 10MR feeding regime evoked similar modulations of T and B cell subsets like rumen cannulation.
Immune cell therapies, such as adoptive T cell therapies, are an innovative and powerful treatment option for previously non-treatable diseases. Although immune cell therapies are thought to be very specific, there is still the danger of developing severe to life-threatening side effects due to the unspecific distribution of the cells throughout the body (on-target/off-tumor effects). A possible solution for the reduction of these side effects and the improvement of tumor infiltration is the specific targeting of the effector cells (e.g., T cells) to the desired destination (e.g., tumor region). This can be achieved by the magnetization of cells with superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) for spatial guidance via external magnetic fields. A prerequisite for the use of SPION-loaded T cells in adoptive T cell therapies is that cell viability and functionality after nanoparticle loading are preserved. Here, we demonstrate a protocol to analyze cell viability and functionality such as activation, proliferation, cytokine release, and differentiation at a single cell level using flow cytometry.
INTRODUCTION: Tumor-infiltrating cells play an important role in tumor immunology, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) are critical in antitumor reaction related to immune checkpoint inhibition targeting programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1).METHODS: In nude mice, which are immune deficient because they lack T cells, and inbred A/J mice, which are syngeneic to neuroblastoma cells (Neuro-2a) and have normal T cell function, we investigated the importance of T lymphocytes in immune checkpoint inhibition in mouse neuroblastoma and analyzed the immune cells in the tumor microenvironment. Then, we subcutaneously injected mouse Neuro-2ainto nude mice and A/J mice, administered anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies by intraperitoneal injection, and evaluated tumor growth. At 16 d after Neuro-2a cells injection, mice were euthanized, tumors and spleens were harvested, and immune cells were analyzed by flow cytometry.RESULTS: The antibodies suppressed tumor growth in A/J but not in nude mice. The co-administration of antibodies did not affect regulatory T cells (culster of differentiation [CD]4+CD25+FoxP3+ cells) or activated CD4+ lymphocytes (expressing CD69). No changes in activated CD8+ lymphocytes (expressing CD69) were observed in spleen tissue. However, increased infiltration of activated CD8+ TILs was seen in tumors weighing less than 300 mg, and the amount of activated CD8+ TILs was negatively correlated with tumor weight.CONCLUSIONS: Our study confirms that lymphocytes are essential for the antitumor immune reaction induced by blocking PD-1/PD-L1 and raises the possibility that promoting the infiltration of activated CD8+ TIL into tumors may be an effective treatment for neuroblastoma.
SCOPE: Zinc is important for a balanced immune system, but the mechanisms are not yet fully elucidated. One possibility is an interaction of zinc with the tricarbocylic acid cycle (TCA), in which zinc inhibits the mitochondrial aconitase leading to an increase in intracellular citrate concentration as described for prostate cells. Therefore, we studied the immune modulatory effects of zinc and citrate and their interaction in mixed lymphocyte cultures (MLC).METHODS AND RESULTS: After allogeneic (MLC) or superantigen stimulation, the interferon-γ (IFNγ) production was quantified by ELISA and T cell subpopulations were determined by Western Blot. Intracellular concentrations of citrate and zinc were measured. Zinc and citrate reduce the IFNγ expression and the pro-inflammatory T helper cells (Th) 1 and Th17 in MLC. While zinc increases regulatory T cells, citrate reduces them. After superantigen stimulation IFNγ production is decreased only by citrate but increased by zinc. Zinc does not affect citrate concentration, while citrate impairs zinc uptake. Thus, zinc and citrate independently regulate IFNy expression.CONCLUSION: These results may explain the immunosuppressive effect of blood products anticoagulated by citrate. In addition, high citrate consumption may lead to immunosuppressive effects, so upper limits for citrate should be established. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
T-cell subsets, including naïve (NA), central memory (CM), transitional memory (TM), effector memory (EM), and RA + effector memory (EMRA), differ in phenotype and function. T-cells are mobilized by exercise, with differences in the magnitude of mobilization between subsets. However, the response of TM T-cells to exercise has not yet been described. Further, T-cells expressing the late differentiation marker CD57 are known to be highly responsive to exercise, but the relative response of CD57 + and CD57- within T-cell subsets is unknown. We therefore aimed to characterize the exercise-induced mobilization of TM T-cells, as well as to compare the exercise response of CD57 + and CD57- cells within T-cell subsets.METHODS: Seventeen participants (7 female; aged 18-40 years) cycled 30 min at 80% of their estimated maximum heart rate. Venous blood obtained pre, post, and 1H post-exercise was analyzed by flow cytometry. CD45RA, CCR7, and CD28 expression within CD4 + and CD8+ T-cells identified NA, CM, TM, EM, and EMRA subsets. CD57 expression within EM, EMRA, and CD28+ T-cells was also quantified. The relative mobilization of each subset was compared by calculating fold change in cell concentration during (ingress, post/pre) and after exercise (egress,1H post/post). Cytomegalovirus (CMV) serostatus was determined by ELISA and was considered in models.RESULTS: TM CD8+ T-cell concentration was greater post-exercise than pre-exercise (138.59 ± 56.42 cells/µl vs. 98.51 ± 39.68 cells/µl, p < 0.05), and the proportion of CD8 + with a TM phenotype was elevated 1H post-exercise (1H: 32.44 ± 10.38% vs. Pre: 30.15 ± 8.77%, p < 0.05). The relative mobilization during and after exercise of TM T-cells did not differ from NA and CM but was less than EM and EMRA subsets. Similar results were observed within CD4+ T-cells. CD57 + subsets of CD28+ T-cells and of EM and EMRA CD8+ T-cells exhibited a greater relative mobilization than CD57- subsets (all p < 0.05).CONCLUSION: These results indicate TM CD4 + and CD8+ T-cells are transiently mobilized into the blood with exercise, but not to as great of an extent as later differentiated EM and EMRA T-cells. Results also indicate CD57 identifies highly exercise responsive cells within CD8+ T-cell subsets.
Endometriosis is a common disease of the female reproductive system and has malignant features. Although endometriosis by itself is a benign disease, its erosive growth characteristics lead to severe pelvic pain and female infertility. Unfortunately, several aspects of the pathogenesis of endometriosis are still unclear. Furthermore, the clinical therapeutic methods are unsatisfactory. The recurrence rate of endometriosis is high. Accumulating evidence suggests that the onset and development of endometriosis are closely related to the abnormal function of the female autoimmune system, especially the function of some immune cells such as the aggregation of neutrophils, abnormal differentiation of macrophages, decreased cytotoxicity of NK cells, and abnormal function of T- and B-cell lines. Therefore, immunotherapy is probably a novel therapeutic strategy for endometriosis besides surgery and hormone therapy. However, information regarding the clinical application of immunotherapy in the treatment of endometriosis is very limited. This article aimed to review the effects of existing immunomodulators on the development of endometriosis, including immune cell regulators and immune factor regulators. These immunomodulators clinically or experimentally inhibit the pathogenesis and development of endometriosis lesions by acting on the immune cells, immune factors, or immune-related signaling pathways. Thus, immunotherapy is probably a novel and effective clinical treatment choice for endometriosis. Experimental studies of the detailed mechanism of immunotherapy and large-scale clinical studies about the effectiveness and safety of this promising therapeutic method are required in the future.
A 9-year-old neutered male American pine marten (Martes americana) was referred for further evaluation of suspected lymphoproliferative disease. On physical examination, the pine marten was determined to be in an underconditioned state with an enlarged right mandibular lymph node. Hematology revealed a marked leukocytosis characterized by a lymphocytosis. Flow cytometry performed on peripheral blood was suggestive of a CD4+ T-cell lymphoproliferative disease. Whole-body radiographs demonstrated a large cranial mediastinal mass and splenomegaly. These findings were confirmed using ultrasound, which also identified intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy and splenic nodules. Cytologic evaluation of aspirates from the mediastinal mass was interpreted as possible lymphoma. The pine marten was treated with chlorambucil and prednisolone and achieved a durable partial remission. Twelve months after initial diagnosis, progressive disease was noted and treatment with lomustine was initiated as a rescue protocol until euthanasia, which was carried out 15 mo after the initial diagnosis. Based on a literature search, this is the first case report describing the management of peripheral T-cell lymphoproliferative disease, presumably peripheral lymphoma, in a pine marten; this neoplasm should be considered as a differential diagnosis in pine martens that have abnormal complete blood cell count findings and enlarged lymph nodes. Key clinical message: This report describes the diagnosis and management of a peripheral T-cell lymphoproliferative disease, presumably peripheral lymphoma, in an American pine marten (Martes americana). This is the first report of this disease and its successful treatment in a pine marten.
Evasion from immunity is a major obstacle to the achievement of successful cancer immunotherapy. Hybrids derived from cell-cell fusion are theoretically associated with tumor heterogeneity and progression by conferring novel properties on tumor cells, including drug resistance and metastatic capacity; however, their impact on immune evasion remains unknown. Here, we investigated the potency of tumor-macrophage hybrids in immune evasion. Hybrids were established by co-culture of a melanoma cell line (A375 cells) and type 2 macrophages. The hybrids showed greater migration ability and greater tumorigenicity than the parental melanoma cells. The hybrids showed heterogeneous sensitivity to New York esophageal squamous cell carcinoma-1 (NY-ESO-1)-specific T-cell receptor-transduced T (TCR-T) cells and two out of four hybrid clones showed less sensitivity to TCR-T compared with the parental cells. An in vitro tumor heterogeneity model revealed that the TCR-T cells preferentially killed the parental cells compared with the hybrids and the survival rate of the hybrids was higher than that of the parental cells, indicating that the hybrids evade killing by TCR-T cells efficiently. Analysis of a single-cell RNA sequencing dataset of patients with melanoma revealed that a few macrophages expressed RNA encoding melanoma differentiation antigens including melan A, tyrosinase, and premelanosome protein, which indicated the presence of hybrids in primary melanoma. In addition, the number of potential hybrids was correlated with a poorer response to immune checkpoint blockade. These results provide evidence that melanoma-macrophage fusion has a role in tumor heterogeneity and immune evasion. © 2023 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Neuropathy with antibodies to myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) is the most common paraproteinemic IgM neuropathy. Recently, the mutational profile of the MYD88 and CXCR4 genes has been included in the diagnostic workup of IgM monoclonal gammopathies. The objective of our study was to assess the prevalence of MYD88 L265P and CXCR4 S338X gene variants in patients with anti-MAG antibody neuropathy. Secondary aims were to evaluate possible correlations between the mutational profile and neuropathy severity, antibody titers, and treatment response.METHODS: Seventy-five patients (47 men, mean age at molecular analysis 70.8 ± 10.2 years; mean disease duration 5.1 ± 4.9 years) with anti-MAG antibody neuropathy were recruited. Among them, 38 (50.7%) had IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, 29 (38.7%) Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM), and 8 (10.6%) chronic lymphocytic leukemia/marginal zone lymphoma/hairy cell leukemia variant. Molecular analysis was performed on DNA from the bone marrow mononuclear cells in 55 of 75 patients and from peripheral mononuclear cells in 18 of 75 patients. Forty-five patients were treated with rituximab, 6 with ibrutinib, 2 with obinutuzumab-chlorambucil, and 3 with venetoclax-based therapy. All the patients were assessed with the Inflammatory Neuropathy Cause and Treatment (INCAT) Disability Scale, INCAT Sensory Sum Score, and MRC Sum Score at baseline and follow-up. We considered as responders, patients who improved by at least 1 point in 2 clinical scales.RESULTS: Fifty patients (66.7%) carried the MYD88L265P variant, with a higher frequency in WM and naive patients (77.2% vs 33.3%, p = 0.0012). No patients harbored the CXCR4S338X variant. There were no significant differences in hematologic data (IgM levels, M protein, and anti-MAG antibody titers), neuropathy severity, or response to rituximab in MYD88-altered and MYD88 wild-type patients. Nine of 11 (81.8%) patients treated with novel targeted drug, according to the MYD88 status, responded to treatments.DISCUSSION: MYD88L265P variant has a high prevalence (66.7%) in anti-MAG antibody neuropathy representing a potential effective mutational target for Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitors. MYD88L265P variant, however, does not seem to be a prognostic factor of neuropathy severity or response to rituximab. In patients not responding or becoming refractory to rituximab, a tailored therapy with new effective target therapies should be considered.
CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) are oligodeoxynucleotides containing CpG motifs and can be recognized by toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9), activating the host's immune responses. In this study, ten different CpG ODNs were designed and synthesized to study the antibacterial immune responses of CpG ODNs in golden pompano (Trachinotus ovatus). Results showed that CpG ODN 2102 significantly improved the immunity of golden pompano against bacteria. Besides, CpG ODN 2102 promoted the proliferation of head kidney lymphocytes and activated the head kidney macrophages. When TLR9-specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) was used to interfere with TLR9 expression, the immune responses were decreased. Moreover, the expression levels of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (Myd88), p65, tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) in the TLR9-knockdown golden pompano kidney (GPK) cells were significantly reduced. The nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) promoter activity of the TLR9-knockdown GPK cells was also significantly reduced. In vivo, the antibacterial immune effects induced by CpG ODN 2102 in golden pompano were mostly abolished when TLR9 expression was knocked down. These results suggested that TLR9 was involved in the immune responses induced by CpG ODN 2102. CpG ODN 2102 also enhanced the protective effect of the Vibrio harveyi vaccine pCTssJ, where the survival rate of golden pompano was significantly improved by 20%. In addition, CpG ODN 2102 enhanced the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression levels of TLR9, Myxovirus resistance (Mx), interferon γ (IFN-γ), TNF-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-8, major histocompatibility complex class (MHC) Iα, MHC IIα, Immunoglobulin D (IgD), and IgM. Therefore, TLR9 was involved in the antibacterial immune responses induced by CpG ODN 2102 and CpG ODN 2102 possessed adjuvant immune effects. These results enlarged our knowledge of the antibacterial immunity of fish TLRs signaling pathway and had important implications for exploring natural antibacterial molecules in fish and developing new vaccine adjuvants.
Sjögren's syndrome (SS) is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by dysfunction of the affected exocrine glands. Lymphocytic infiltration within the inflamed glands and aberrant B cell hyperactivation are the two salient pathological features in SS. Increasing evidence indicates that salivary gland (SG) epithelial cells act as a key regulator in the pathogenesis of SS, as revealed by the dysregulated innate immune signaling pathways in SG epithelium and increased expression of various proinflammatory molecules as well as their interaction with immune cells. In addition, SG epithelial cells can regulate adaptive immune responses as non-professional antigen-presenting cells and promote the activation and differentiation of infiltrated immune cells. Moreover, the local inflammatory milieu can modulate the survival of SG epithelial cells, leading to enhanced apoptosis and pyroptosis with the release of intracellular autoantigens, which further contributes to SG autoimmune inflammation and tissue destruction in SS. Herein, we reviewed recent advances in elucidating the role of SG epithelial cells in the pathogenesis of SS, which may provide rationales for potential therapeutic targeting of SG epithelial cells to alleviate SG dysfunction alongside treatments with immunosuppressive reagents in SS.
Heterogeneity in susceptibility among individuals to COVID-19 has been evident through the pandemic worldwide. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses generated against pathogens in certain individuals are known to impose selection pressure on the pathogen, thus driving emergence of new variants. In this study, we probe the role played by host genetic heterogeneity in terms of HLA-genotypes in determining differential COVID-19 severity in patients. We use bioinformatic tools for CTL epitope prediction to identify epitopes under immune pressure. Using HLA-genotype data of COVID-19 patients from a local cohort, we observe that the recognition of pressured epitopes from the parent strain Wuhan-Hu-1 correlates with COVID-19 severity. We also identify and rank list HLA-alleles and epitopes that offer protectivity against severe disease in infected individuals. Finally, we shortlist a set of 6 pressured and protective epitopes that represent regions in the viral proteome that are under high immune pressure across SARS-CoV-2 variants. Identification of such epitopes, defined by the distribution of HLA-genotypes among members of a population, could potentially aid in prediction of indigenous variants of SARS-CoV-2 and other pathogens.
Warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis (WHIM) syndrome is an ultra-rare combined primary immunodeficiency disease caused by heterozygous gain-of-function mutations in the chemokine receptor CXCR4. WHIM patients typically present with recurrent acute infections associated with myelokathexis (severe neutropenia due to bone marrow retention of mature neutrophils). Severe lymphopenia is also common, but the only associated chronic opportunistic pathogen is human papillomavirus and mechanisms are not clearly defined. In this study, we show that WHIM mutations cause more severe CD8 than CD4 lymphopenia in WHIM patients and WHIM model mice. Mechanistic studies in mice revealed selective and WHIM allele dose-dependent accumulation of mature CD8 single-positive cells in thymus in a cell-intrinsic manner due to prolonged intrathymic residence, associated with increased CD8 single-positive thymocyte chemotactic responses in vitro toward the CXCR4 ligand CXCL12. In addition, mature WHIM CD8+ T cells preferentially home to and are retained in the bone marrow in mice in a cell-intrinsic manner. Administration of the specific CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100 (plerixafor) in mice rapidly and transiently corrected T cell lymphopenia and the CD4/CD8 ratio. After lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection, we found no difference in memory CD8+ T cell differentiation or viral load between wild-type and WHIM model mice. Thus, lymphopenia in WHIM syndrome may involve severe CXCR4-dependent CD8+ T cell deficiency resulting in part from sequestration in the primary lymphoid organs, thymus, and bone marrow.
Tbet+CD11c+ B cells, also known as age-associated B cells (ABCs), are pivotal contributors to humoral immunity following infection and in autoimmunity, yet their in vivo generation is incompletely understood. We used a mouse model of systemic acute lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection to examine the developmental requirements of ABCs that emerged in the spleen and liver. IL-21 signaling through STAT3 was indispensable for ABC development. In contrast, IFN-γ signaling through STAT1 was required for B cell activation and proliferation. Mice that underwent splenectomy or were deficient in lymphotoxin α generated hepatic ABCs despite the lack of secondary lymphoid organ contributions, suggesting that the liver supported de novo generation of these cells separately from their development in lymphoid organs. Thus, IFN-γ and IL-21 signaling have distinct, stage-specific roles in ABC differentiation, while the tissue microenvironment provides additional cues necessary for their development.
BACKGROUND: Sleep loss (SL) is a health issue associated with the higher risk of autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. However, the connection between SL, the immune system, and autoimmune diseases remains unknown.METHODS: We conducted mass cytometry, single-cell RNA sequencing, and flow cytometry to analyze how SL influences immune system and autoimmune disease development. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from six healthy subjects before and after SL were collected and analyzed by mass cytometry experiments and subsequent bioinformatic analysis to identify the effects of SL on human immune system. Sleep deprivation and experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) mice model were constructed, and scRNA-seq data from mice cervical draining lymph nodes were generated to explore how SL influences EAU development and related autoimmune responses.RESULTS: We found compositional and functional changes in human and mouse immune cells after SL, especially in effector CD4+ T and myeloid cells. SL upregulated serum GM-CSF levels in healthy individuals and in patients with SL-induced recurrent uveitis. Experiments in mice undergoing SL or EAU demonstrated that SL could aggravate autoimmune disorders by inducing pathological immune cell activation, upregulating inflammatory pathways, and promoting intercellular communication. Furthermore, we found that SL promoted Th17 differentiation, pathogenicity, and myeloid cells activation through the IL-23Th17GM-CSF feedback mechanism, thus promoting EAU development. Lastly, an anti-GM-CSF treatment rescued SL-induced EAU aggravation and pathological immune response.CONCLUSIONS: SL promoted Th17 cells pathogenicity and autoimmune uveitis development, especially through the interaction between Th17 and myeloid cells involving GM-CSF signaling, providing possible therapeutic targets for the SL-related pathological disorders.
BACKGROUND: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a subtype of B-cell malignancy with high heterogeneity. Ferroptosis is a novel cell death induced by iron and lipid peroxidation and exhibits prognostic value in many cancers. Emerging studies on long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and ferroptosis reveal the unique value in tumorigenesis. However, the prognostic value of ferroptosis-related lncRNAs (FRLs) remains unclear in CLL.AIM: We aimed to construct a FRLs risk model to predict prognosis and improve prognostic stratification for clinical practice.METHODS: RNA-sequencing data and clinical characteristics of CLL patients were downloaded from the GEO database. Based on ferroptosis-related genes from FerrDb database, differentially expressed FRLs with prognostic significance were identified and used to generate the risk model. The capability of the risk model was assessed and evaluated. GO and KEGG analyses were performed to confirm biological roles and potential pathways.RESULTS: A novel ferroptosis-related lncRNAs prognostic score (FPS) model containing six FRLs (PRKCQ, TRG.AS1, LNC00467, LNC01096, PCAT6 and SBF2.AS1) was identified. Patients in the training and validation cohort were evenly divided into high- and low-risk groups. Our results indicated that patients in the high-risk group had worse survival than those in the low-risk group. Functional enrichment analyses showed that the differently expressed genes (DEGs) between the two groups were enriched in the chemokine signaling pathway, hematopoietic cell lineage, T cell differentiation, TCR pathway and NF-κB pathway. Moreover, significant differences in immune cell infiltration were also observed. Surprisingly, FPS was proved to be an independent prognostic indicator for OS.CONCLUSION: We established and evaluated a novel prognostic risk model with 6 FRLs that could predict prognosis accurately and describe the distinct immune infiltration in CLL.
BACKGROUND: Immune-mediated rejection was the major cause of graft dysfunction. Although the advances in immunosuppressive agents have markedly reduced the incidence of T-cell-mediated rejection after transplantation. However, the incidence of antibody-mediated rejection (AMR) remains high. Donor-specific antibodies (DSAs) were considered the major mediators of allograft loss. Previously, we showed that treatment with 18-kDa translocator protein (TSPO) ligands inhibited the differentiation and effector functions of T cells and reduced the rejection observed after allogeneic skin transplantation in mice. This study we further investigate the effect of TSPO ligands on B cells and DSAs production in the recipients of mixed-AMR model.METHODS: In vitro, we explored the effect of treatment with TSPO ligands on the activation, proliferation, and antibody production of B cells. Further, we established a heart-transplantation mixed-AMR model in rats. This model was treated with the TSPO ligands, FGIN1-27 or Ro5-4864, to investigate the role of ligands in preventing transplant rejection and DSAs production in vivo. As TSPO was the mitochondrial membrane transporters, we then investigated the TSPO ligands effect on mitochondrial-related metabolic ability of B cells as well as expression of downstream proteins.RESULTS: In vitro studies, treatment with TSPO ligands inhibited the differentiation of B cells into CD138+CD27+ plasma cells; reduced antibodies, IgG and IgM, secretion of B cells; and suppressed the B cell activation and proliferation. In the mixed-AMR rat model, treatment with FGIN1-27 or Ro5-4864 attenuated DSA-mediated cardiac-allograft injury, prolonged graft survival, and reduced the numbers of B cells, including IgG+ secreting B cells, T cells and macrophages infiltrating in grafts. For the further mechanism exploration, treatment with TSPO ligands inhibited the metabolic ability of B cells by downregulating expression of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 1 and proteins in complexes I, II, and IV of the electron transport chain.CONCLUSIONS: We clarified the mechanism of action of TSPO ligands on B-cell functions and provided new ideas and drug targets for the clinical treatment of postoperative AMR.
BACKGROUND: Lymphoplasmacytic enteritis (LPE) and low-grade intestinal T cell lymphoma (LGITL) are common diseases in older cats, but their diagnosis and differentiation remain challenging.OBJECTIVES: To summarize the current literature on etiopathogenesis and diagnosis of LPE and LGITL in cats and provide guidance on the differentiation between LPE and LGITL in cats. To provide statements established using evidence-based approaches or where such evidence is lacking, statements based on consensus of experts in the field.ANIMALS: None.METHODS: A panel of 6 experts in the field (2 internists, 1 radiologist, 1 anatomic pathologist, 1 clonality expert, 1 oncologist) with the support of a human medical immunologist, was formed to assess and summarize evidence in the peer-reviewed literature and complement it with consensus recommendations.RESULTS: Despite increasing interest on the topic for clinicians and pathologists, few prospective studies were available, and interpretation of the pertinent literature often was challenging because of the heterogeneity of the cases. Most recommendations by the panel were supported by a moderate or low level of evidence. Several understudied areas were identified, including cellular markers using immunohistochemistry, genomics, and transcriptomic studies.CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: To date, no single diagnostic criterion or known biomarker reliably differentiates inflammatory lesions from neoplastic lymphoproliferations in the intestinal tract of cats and a diagnosis currently is established by integrating all available clinical and diagnostic data. Histopathology remains the mainstay to better differentiate LPE from LGITL in cats with chronic enteropathy.
BACKGROUND: The two cerebral hemispheres influence the immune response differently. While the left hemisphere enhances cellular immunity, the right hemisphere inhibits it.OBJECTIVES: To determine whether immune and inflammatory markers correlated with stroke severity and hospitalization duration as a function of stroke side.METHODS: The study included 137 patients with unilateral ischemic stroke. The medical records were reviewed for demographic and clinical laboratory data, including C-reactive protein (CRP), white blood cell (WBC) count, its differential stroke side and stroke severity according to the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS), and length of hospital stay (LOS). We examined differences between right side (RS) and left side (LS) stroke on immune and inflammatory markers and compared correlations between these markers and NIHSS and LOS as a function of stroke side.RESULTS: RS stroke patients had higher CRP and monocytes than LS stroke patients. In RS stroke patients, CRP, total WBC, and lymphocyte levels positively correlated with both NIHSS and LOS, whereas levels of neutrophils were positively correlated with NIHSS alone. No correlations were found for LS stroke patients.CONCLUSIONS: Immune-inflammatory markers correlated with stroke severity and LOS only in patients with RS stroke. Neuroimmunological processes influence short-term clinical outcomes after stroke, especially considering the differential effects of the hemispheres on immunity. Prospective studies that evaluate long-term clinical outcomes are needed. Testing the effects of anti-inflammatory treatments on prognosis of RS stroke patients should be considered.
Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are multipotent, but individual HSCs can show restricted lineage output in vivo. Currently, the molecular mechanisms and physiological role of HSC fate restriction remain unknown. Here we show that lymphoid fate is epigenetically but not transcriptionally primed in HSCs. In multi-lineage HSCs that produce lymphocytes, lymphoid-specific upstream regulatory elements (LymUREs) but not promoters are preferentially accessible compared with platelet-biased HSCs that do not produce lymphoid cell types, providing transcriptionally silent lymphoid lineage priming. Runx3 is preferentially expressed in multi-lineage HSCs, and reinstating Runx3 expression increases LymURE accessibility and lymphoid-primed multipotent progenitor 4 (MPP4) output in old, platelet-biased HSCs. In contrast, platelet-biased HSCs show elevated levels of epigenetic platelet-lineage priming and give rise to MPP2 progenitors with molecular platelet bias. These MPP2 progenitors generate platelets with faster kinetics and through a more direct cellular pathway compared with MPP2s derived from multi-lineage HSCs. Epigenetic programming therefore predicts both fate restriction and differentiation kinetics in HSCs.
CD-205 receptor-mediated dendritic cell (DC) targeting liposomes are commonly used as a delivery system for inducing a strong T-cell immune response or specific immune tolerance. This delivery system can carry both the antigen and adjuvant, thereby modulating DC maturation and also activating the T-cell response. In order to maximize the desired therapeutic effects of Astragalus polysaccharides (APS) and induce an efficient cellular and humoral immune response against the antigen, ovalbumin (OVA) and APS were encapsulated in long-circling liposomes conjugated with anti-CD-205 receptor antibodies to produce CD-205-targeted liposomes (iLPSM). We explored using a series of experiments evaluating the targeting efficiency of iLPSM. In vitro, iLPSM nanoparticles promoted the proliferation of macrophages, and the nanoparticles were rapidly phagocytized by macrophages. In vivo, iLPSM significantly improved the antibody titers of OVA-specific IgG and IgG, isotypes cytokine production, and T and B lymphocyte differentiation. Furthermore, iLPSM facilitated the maturation of DCs. In addition, iLPSM nanoparticles could prolong the retention time of nanoparticles at the injection site, leading to a strong, sustained immune response. These results show that the CD-205 antibody successfully binds to the corresponding cell receptor.
Oxidative stress is a key feature in both chronic inflammation and cancer. P38 regulated/activated protein kinase (PRAK) deficiency can cause functional disorders in neutrophils and macrophages under high oxidative stress, but the precise mechanisms by which PRAK regulates reactive oxygen species (ROS) elimination and its potential impact on CD4+ T helper subset function are unclear. The present study reveals that the PRAK-NF-E2-related factor 2(NRF2) axis is essential for maintaining the intracellular redox homeostasis of T helper 17(Th17) cells, thereby promoting Th17 cell differentiation and antitumor effects. Through mechanistic analysis, we identify NRF2 as a novel protein substrate of PRAK and find that PRAK enhances the stability of the NRF2 protein through phosphorylation NRF2 Serine(S) 558 independent of protein ubiquitination. High accumulation of cellular ROS caused by loss of PRAK disrupts both glycolysis and PKM2-dependent phosphorylation of STAT3, which subsequently impairs the differentiation of Th17 cells. As a result, Prak knockout (KO) mice display significant resistance to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) but impaired antitumor immunity in a MC38 tumor model. This work reveals that the PRAK-NRF2-mediated antioxidant pathway is a metabolic checkpoint that controls Th17-cell glycolysis and differentiation. Targeting PRAK is a promising strategy for maintaining an active ROS scavenging system and may lead to potent Th17 cell antitumor immunity.
Many of the pathways that underlie the diversification of naive T cells into effector and memory subsets, and the maintenance of these populations, remain controversial. In recent years a variety of experimental tools have been developed that allow us to follow the fates of cells and their descendants. In this review we describe how mathematical models provide a natural language for describing the growth, loss, and differentiation of cell populations. By encoding mechanistic descriptions of cell behavior, models can help us interpret these new datasets and reveal the rules underpinning T cell fate decisions, both at steady state and during immune responses.
There is a dramatic remodeling of the T cell compartment during aging. The most notorious changes are the reduction of the naive T cell pool and the accumulation of memory-like T cells. Memory-like T cells in older people acquire a phenotype of terminally differentiated cells, lose the expression of costimulatory molecules, and acquire properties of senescent cells. In this review, we focus on the different subsets of age-associated T cells that accumulate during aging. These subsets include extremely cytotoxic T cells with natural killer properties, exhausted T cells with altered cytokine production, and regulatory T cells that gain proinflammatory features. Importantly, all of these subsets lose their lymph node homing capacity and migrate preferentially to nonlymphoid tissues, where they contribute to tissue deterioration and inflammaging.
PURPOSE: No evidence exists as to whether type 2 diabetes (T2DM) impairs clinical outcome from Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors (ICI) in patients with solid tumors.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: In a large cohort of ICI recipients treated at 21 institutions from June 2014 to June 2020, we studied whether patients on glucose lowering medications (GLM) for T2DM had shorter OS and PFS. We used targeted transcriptomics in a subset of patients to explore differences in the tumor microenvironment of patients with/without diabetes.RESULTS: A total of 1395 patients were included. Primary tumors included NSCLC (54.7%), melanoma (24.7%), renal cell (15.0%) and other carcinomas (5.6%). Following multivariable analysis, patients on GLM (n=226, 16.2%) displayed an increased risk of death (HR 1.29, 95%CI:1.07-1.56) and disease progression/death (HR 1.21, 95%CI:1.03-1.43) independent of number of GLM received. We matched 92 metformin exposed with 363 controls and 78 patients on other oral GLM or insulin with 299 control patients. Exposure to metformin, but not other GLM was associated with an increased risk of death (HR 1.53, 95%CI:1.16-2.03) and disease progression/death (HR 1.34, 95%CI:1.04-1.72). T2DM patients with higher pre-treatment glycaemia had higher neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (p=0.04), while exploratory tumoral transcriptomic profiling in a subset of patients (n=22) revealed differential regulation of innate and adaptive immune pathways in T2DM patients.CONCLUSIONS: In this study patients on GLM experienced worse outcomes from immunotherapy, independent of baseline features. Prospective studies are warranted to clarify the relative impact of metformin over a pre-existing diagnosis of T2DM in influencing poorer outcomes in this population.
A healthy 49-year-old female developed intractable watery diarrhea after the Pfizer SARS-Cov2 mRNA vaccination. She was subsequently diagnosed with collagenous colitis (CC). She had no prior history of medication use, suggesting of vaccination being the trigger. CC or lymphocytic colitis should be considered as differential diagnoses for persistent watery diarrhea after SARS-Cov2 mRNA vaccination.
INTRODUCTION: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has very poor prognosis due to its immunosuppressive properties. An effective measure to regulate tumor immunity is brachytherapy, which uses 125I seeds planted into tumor. T cell immune receptors with immunoglobulin and ITIM domains (TIGIT) is highly expressed in HCC. The TIGIT-targeted probe is expected to be an effective tool for indicating immunomodulation of 125I seed brachytherapy in HCC. In this study, We constructed a novel peptide targeting TIGIT to evaluate the immune regulation of 125I seed brachytherapy for HCC by near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF).METHODS: Expression of TIGIT by immunofluorescence (IF) and flow cytometry (FCM) in different part and different differentiated human liver cancer tissues was verified. An optical fluorescence probe (Po-12) containing a NIRF dye and TIGIT peptide was synthesized for evaluating the modulatory effect of 125I seed brachytherapy. Lymphocytes uptake by Po-12 were detected by FCM and confocal microscopy. The distribution and accumulation of Po-12 in vivo were explored by NIRF imaging in subcutaneous and orthotopic tumors. IHC and IF staining were used to verify the expression of TIGIT in the tumors.RESULTS: TIGIT was highly expressed in HCC and increased with tumor differentiation. The dye-labeled peptide (Po-12) retained a stable binding affinity for the TIGIT protein in vitro. Accumulation of fluorescence intensity (FI) increased with time extended in subcutaneous H22 tumors, and the optimal point is 1 h. TIGIT was highly expressed on lymphocytes infiltrated in tumors and could be suppressed by 125I seed brachytherapy. Accumulation of Po-12-Cy5 was increased in tumor-bearing groups while declined in 125I radiation group.
BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a challenging medical problem. Cuproptosis is a novel form of cell death that plays a crucial role in tumorigenesis, angiogenesis, and metastasis. However, it remains unclear whether cuproptosis-related genes (CRGs) influence the outcomes and immune microenvironment of HCC patients.METHOD: From The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) databases, we obtained the mRNA expression file and related clinical information of HCC patients. We selected 19 CRGs as candidate genes for this study according to previous literature. We performed a differential expression analysis of the 19 CRGs between malignant and precancerous tissue. Based on the 19 CRGs, we enrolled cluster analysis to identify cuproptosis-related subtypes of HCC patients. A prognostic risk signature was created utilizing univariate Cox regression and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analyses. We employed independent and stratification survival analyses to investigate the predictive value of this model. The functional enrichment features, mutation signatures, immune profile, and response to immunotherapy of HCC patients were also investigated according to the two molecular subtypes and the prognostic signature.RESULTS: We found that 17 CRGs significantly differed in HCC versus normal samples. Cluster analysis showed two distinct molecular subtypes of cuproptosis. Cluster 1 is preferentially related to poor prognosis, high activity of immune response signaling, high mutant frequency of TP53, and distinct immune cell infiltration versus cluster 2. Through univariate and LASSO Cox regression analyses, we created a cuproptosis-related prognostic risk signature containing LIPT1, DLAT, MTF1, GLS, and CDKN2A. High-risk HCC patients were shown to have a worse prognosis. The risk signature was proved to be an independent predictor of prognosis in both the TCGA and ICGC datasets, according to multivariate analysis. The signature also performed well in different stratification of clinical features. The immune cells, which included regulatory T cells (Treg), B cells, macrophages, mast cells, NK cells, and aDCs, as well as immune functions containing cytolytic activity, MHC class I, and type II IFN response, were remarkably distinct between the high-risk and low-risk groups. The tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion (TIDE) score suggested that high-risk patients had a higher response rate to immune checkpoint inhibitors than low-risk patients.CONCLUSION: This research discovered the potential prognostic and immunological significance of cuproptosis in HCC, improved the understanding of cuproptosis, and may deliver new directions for developing more efficacious therapeutic techniques for HCC patients.
Background Although the association between the presence of diabetes mellitus and the development of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is well known, the role of novel biomarkers in predicting the development of DVT in diabetic patients is not yet known to a large extent. Studies have shown that complete blood count (CBC) and CBC-derived parameters such as neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) can be used as surrogate markers to detect DVT. This study was conducted to assess the utility of NLR and PLR as a marker of DVT in diabetic patients. Methodology This case-control study was conducted among a calculated sample size of 109 DVT patients in one arm and 109 non-DVT patients in another arm. Hematological tests including total leucocyte count, differential leucocyte count, total neutrophil count, total lymphocyte count, total platelet count, NLR, and PLR were performed. Results We found a significant difference in NLR and PLR between the DVT and the non-DVT groups. In addition, we found that NLR and PLR were significantly higher in the diabetic group, indicating the presence of inflammation in association with diabetes mellitus. Analysis of the receiver operating characteristic curve showed that at a cut-off value of 2.83, NLR can detect DVT in diabetic patients with 67% sensitivity and 92% specificity. Similarly, PLR at a cut-off value of 131.46 can detect DVT in diabetic patients with 56% sensitivity and 90% specificity. Conclusions We conclude that NLR and PLR are novel inflammatory markers that can help in the early detection of DVT in diabetic patients.
Comment on    Editorial on the Research Topic Revisiting the thymus: the origin of T cells.
Tumor immune microenvironment (TIME), a tumor-derived immune component, is proven to be closely related to the development, metastasis, and recurrence of tumors. Gut microbiota and its fermented-metabolites short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) play a critical role in maintaining the immune homeostasis of gastrointestinal tumors. Consisting mainly of acetate, propionate, and butyrate, SCFAs can interact with G protein-coupled receptors 43 of T helper 1 cell or restrain histone deacetylases (HDACs) of cytotoxic T lymphocytes to exert immunotherapy effects. Studies have shed light on SCFAs can mediate the differentiation and function of regulatory T cells, as well as cytokine production in TIME. Additionally, SCFAs can alter epigenetic modification of CD8+ T cells by inhibiting HDACs to participate in the immune response process. In gastrointestinal tumors, the abundance of SCFAs and their producing bacteria is significantly reduced. Direct supplementation of dietary fiber and probiotics, or fecal microbiota transplantation to change the structure of gut microbiota can both increase the level of SCFAs and inhibit tumor development. The mechanism by which SCFAs modulate the progression of gastrointestinal tumors has been elucidated in this review, aiming to provide prospects for the development of novel immunotherapeutic strategies.
T cell exhaustion is an alternative differentiation path of T cells, sometimes described as a dysfunction. During the last decade, insights of T cell exhaustion acting as a bottle neck in the field of cancer immunotherapy have undoubtedly provoked attention. One of the main drivers of T cell exhaustion is prolonged antigen presentation, a prerequisite in the cancer-immunity cycle. The umbrella term "T cell exhaustion" comprises various stages of T cell functionalities, describing the dynamic, one-way exhaustion process. Together these qualities of T cells at the exhaustion continuum can enable tumor clearance, but if the exhaustion acquired timeframe is exceeded, tumor cells have increased possibilities of escaping immune system surveillance. This could be considered a tipping point where exhausted T cells switch from an asset to a liability. In this review, the contrary role of exhausted T cells is discussed.
CD4+ T cells are typically considered as 'helper' or 'regulatory' populations that support and orchestrate the responses of other lymphocytes. However, they can also develop potent granzyme (Gzm)-mediated cytotoxic activity and CD4+ cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) have been amply documented both in humans and in mice, particularly in the context of human chronic infection and cancer. Despite the established description of CD4+ CTLs, as well as of the critical cytotoxic activity they exert against MHC class II-expressing targets, their developmental and memory maintenance requirements remain elusive. This is at least in part owing to the lack of a murine experimental system where CD4+ CTLs are stably induced. Here, we show that viral and bacterial vectors encoding the same epitope induce distinct CD4+ CTL responses in challenged mice, all of which are nevertheless transient in nature and lack recall properties. Consistent with prior reports, CD4+ CTL differentiation is accompanied by loss of TCF-1 expression, a transcription factor considered essential for memory T cell survival. Using genetic ablation of Tcf7, which encodes TCF-1, at the time of CD4+ T cell activation, we further show that, contrary to observations in CD8+ T cells, continued expression of TCF-1 is not required for CD4+ T cell memory survival. Whilst Tcf7-deficient CD4+ T cells persisted normally following retroviral infection, the CD4+ CTL subset still declined, precluding conclusive determination of the requirement for TCF-1 for murine CD4+ CTL survival. Using xenotransplantation of human CD4+ T cells into murine recipients, we demonstrate that human CD4+ CTLs develop and persist in the same experimental conditions where murine CD4+ CTLs fail to persist. These observations uncover a species-specific defect in murine CD4+ CTL persistence with implications for their use as a model system.
Teleost IgT/Z plays a principal role in the defense mechanisms against infectious agents in the mucosal compartments and in systemic immunity. Previously, Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) IgT was discovered and characterized at transcription level. In this work, we generated a monoclonal antibody (mAb) that specifically recognized the Nile tilapia IgT. BALB/c mice were immunized with three synthetic peptides conjugated to KLH. The sequences of these peptides derived from the constant region of the Nile tilapia IgT heavy chain. ELISA and Western blotting confirmed the specificity of the polyclonal sera and the culture supernatant from a positive hybridoma clone. We observed immunoreactivity against a recombinant IgT fragment and native IgT in skin mucus. The anti-IgT mAb did not cross-react with purified tilapia IgM. Direct ELISA analysis allowed the quantification of skin mucus IgM and IgT concentrations. Flow cytometry analysis revealed differences in the percentage of IgT+ B cell populations between juveniles and adults in peripheral blood, head kidney and spleen lymphocytes and among the tissues analyzed. For further validation of the anti-IgT mAb utility, a recombinant vaccine candidate against sea lice (TT-P0 Ls) was injected into juvenile tilapia. Direct ELISA results revealed a differential secretion of skin mucus IgT and IgM after immunostimulation. In addition, the percentages of IgT+ B cells were determined at 7 days after booster and ex-vivo stimulation by flow cytometry. This mAb constitutes an important immunological tool to study the biological function and structural characteristics of tilapia IgT.
BACKGROUND: In vertebrates, hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) emerge from hemogenic endothelium in the floor of the dorsal aorta and subsequently migrate to secondary niches where they expand and differentiate into committed lineages. Glia maturation factor γ (gmfg) is a key regulator of actin dynamics that was shown to be highly expressed in hematopoietic tissue. Our goal is to investigate the role and mechanism of gmfg in embryonic HSPC development.METHODS: In-depth bioinformatics analysis of our published RNA-seq data identified gmfg as a cogent candidate gene implicated in HSPC development. Loss and gain-of-function strategies were applied to study the biological function of gmfg. Whole-mount in situ hybridization, confocal microscopy, flow cytometry, and western blotting were used to evaluate changes in the number of various hematopoietic cells and expression levels of cell proliferation, cell apoptosis and hematopoietic-related markers. RNA-seq was performed to screen signaling pathways responsible for gmfg deficiency-induced defects in HSPC initiation. The effect of gmfg on YAP sublocalization was assessed in vitro by utilizing HUVEC cell line.RESULTS: We took advantage of zebrafish embryos to illustrate that loss of gmfg impaired HSPC initiation and maintenance. In gmfg-deficient embryos, the number of hemogenic endothelium and HSPCs was significantly reduced, with the accompanying decreased number of erythrocytes, myelocytes and lymphocytes. We found that blood flow modulates gmfg expression and gmfg overexpression could partially rescue the reduction of HSPCs in the absence of blood flow. Assays in zebrafish and HUVEC showed that gmfg deficiency suppressed the activity of YAP, a well-established blood flow mediator, by preventing its shuttling from cytoplasm to nucleus. During HSPC initiation, loss of gmfg resulted in Notch inactivation and the induction of Notch intracellular domain could partially restore the HSPC loss in gmfg-deficient embryos.CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that gmfg mediates blood flow-induced HSPC maintenance via regulation of YAP, and contributes to HSPC initiation through the modulation of Notch signaling. Our findings reveal a brand-new aspect of gmfg function and highlight a novel mechanism for embryonic HSPC development.
Chronic viral infection impairs systemic immunity in the host; however, the mechanism underlying the dysfunction of immune cells in chronic viral infection is incompletely understood. In this study, we studied the lineage differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) during chronic viral infection to elucidate the changes in dendritic cell (DC) differentiation and subsequent impact on T cell functionality using a chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection model. We first investigated the lineage differentiation of HSCs in the bone marrow (BM) to elucidate the modulation of immune cell differentiation and found that the populations highly restrained in their differentiation were common myeloid progenitors (CMPs) and common dendritic cell progenitors (CDPs). Of interest, the main immune cells infected with LCMV Clone 13 (CL13) in the BM were CD11b/c+ myeloid DCs. We next characterized CD11b+ DCs that differentiated during chronic LCMV infection. These DCs displayed a less immunogenic phenotype than DCs in naive or acutely infected mice, showing low expression of CD80 but high expression of PD-L1, B7-H4, IDO, TGF-β, and IL-10. Consequently, these CD11b+ DCs induced less effective CD8+ T cells and more Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) cells. Furthermore, CD11b+ DCs generated during CL13 infection could not induce effective CD8+ T cells specific to the antigens of newly invading pathogens. Our findings demonstrate that DCs generated from the BM during chronic viral infection cannot activate fully functional effector CD8+ T cells specific to newly incoming antigens as well as persistent antigens themselves, suggesting a potential cause of the functional alterations in the T cell immune response during chronic viral infection.
Author information:(1)Department of Pharmacy, The University of Tokyo Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Tokyo.
Early life is characterized by extraordinary challenges, including rapid tissue growth and immune adaptation to foreign antigens after birth. During this developmental stage, infants have an increased risk to immune-mediated diseases. Here, we demonstrate that tissue-resident, IL-13 and IL-4-producing ILC2s are enriched in human infant intestines compared to adult intestines. Organoid systems were employed to assess the role of infant intestinal ILC2s in intestinal development and showed that IL-13 and IL-4 increased epithelial cell proliferation and skewed cell differentiation towards secretory cells. IL-13 furthermore upregulated the production of mediators of type-2 immunity by infant intestinal epithelial cells, including VEGF-A and IL-26, a chemoattractant for eosinophils. In line with these in vitro findings increased numbers of eosinophils were detected in vivo in infant intestines. Taken together, ILC2s are enriched in infant intestines and can support intestinal development, while inducing an epithelial secretory response associated with type 2 immune-mediated diseases.
Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a type IV hypersensitivity mainly mediated by Th1/Th17 immune response. Topical corticosteroid is currently the first-line treatment for allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) and systemic administration of immunosuppressive drugs are used in patients with severe disseminated cases. However, increased risk of adverse effects has limited their use. Thus, the development of a novel immunosuppressant for ACD with low toxicity is a challenging issue. In this study, we began our study by using a murine contact hypersensitivity (CHS) model of ACD to examine the immunosuppressive effects of DYRK1B inhibition. We found that mice treated with a selective DYRK1B inhibitor show reduced ear inflammation. In addition, a significant reduction of Th1 and Th17 cells in the regional lymph node upon DYRK1B inhibition was observed by FACS analysis. Studies in vitro further revealed that DYRK1B inhibitor does not only suppressed Th1 and Th17 differentiation, but also promotes regulatory T cells (Treg) differentiation. Mechanistically, FOXO1 signaling was enhanced due to the suppression of FOXO1Ser329 phosphorylation in the presence of DYRK1B inhibitor. Therefore, these findings suggest that DYRK1B regulates CD4 T cell differentiation through FOXO1 phosphorylation and DYRK1B inhibitor has a potential as a novel agent for treatment of ACD.
A 21-year-old Quarter Horse mare presented with a chronic, progressively worsening left pelvic limb lameness of 3 weeks duration. The initial examination identified a consistent lameness at a walk. Neurological examination showed sensory and gait abnormalities consistent with left femoral nerve dysfunction. The horse minimally advanced the leg cranially and had a shortened stride length at the walk. During the stance phase, the heels of the left hind foot did not contact the ground and the horse quickly took weight off of the limb. Diagnostic imaging (ultrasound and nuclear scintigraphy) examinations did not reaveal a cause. Severe lymphocytosis was identified on complete blood cell count (69,600 cells /uL; reference range: 1,500-4,000 cells/uL), suggestive of lymphoma. Postmortem examination revealed focal swelling of the left femoral nerve. Multiple masses were found in the stomach, large colon, adrenal gland, mesentery, heart and meninges. The entire left pelvic limb was dissected and did not reveal other causes of the gait deficit. Histologic evaluation of the left femoral nerve revealed disseminated intermediate cell size B cell lymphoma, with an immunophenotype suggestive of plasmacytoid differentiation. These lymphocytes infiltrated the femoral nerve at the location of the focal nerve swelling, in addition to other peripheral nerves. This case highlights a horse with an atypical diagnosis of femoral nerve paresis caused by direct neoplastic lymphocyte infiltration, deriving from disseminated B cell lymphoma with plasmacytoid differentiation (neurolymphomatosis). Though rare, disseminated lymphoma with direct nerve infiltration should be considered in horses with peripheral neuropathies.
Early kinetics of lymphocyte subsets involved in tolerance and rejection following heart transplantation (HTx) are barely defined. Here, we aimed to delineate the early alloimmune response immediately after HTx. Therefore, blood samples from 23 heart-transplanted patients were collected before (pre-), immediately (T0), 24 hours (T24), and 3 weeks (3 wks) after HTx. Immunophenotyping was performed using flow cytometry. A significant increase was detected for terminally differentiated (TEMRA) CD4+ or CD8+ T cells and CD56dim CD16+ NK cells immediately after HTx linked to a decrease in naïve CD8+ and CM CD4+ T as well as CD56bright CD16- NK cells, returning to baseline levels at T24. More detailed analyses revealed increased CD69+ CD25- and diminished CD69- CD25- CD4+ or CD8+ T-cell proportions at T0 associated with decreasing S1PR1 expression. Passenger T and NK cells were found at low frequencies only in several patients at T0 and did not correlate with lymphocyte alterations. Collectively, these results suggest an immediate, transient shift toward memory T and NK cells following HTx. Opposite migratory properties of naïve versus memory T and NK cells occurring in the early phase after HTx could underlie these observations and may impinge on the development of allo-specific immune responses.
Although metabolic reprogramming during the differentiation of regulatory T cells (Treg cells) has been extensively studied, the molecular switch to alter energy metabolism remains undefined. The present study explores the critical role of mitochondrial dynamics in the reprogramming and consequent generation of Treg cells. The results showed that during Treg cell differentiation, mitochondrial fusion but not fission led to elevation of oxygen consumption rate values, facilitation of metabolic reprogramming, and increase of number of Treg cells and expression of Foxp3 in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, mitochondrial fusion favored fatty acid oxidation but restricted glycolysis in Treg cells through down-regulating the expression of HIF-1α. Transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) played a crucial role in the induction of mitochondrial fusion, which activated Smad2/3, promoted the expression of PGC-1α and therefore facilitated the expression of mitochondrial fusion proteins. In conclusion, during Treg cell differentiation, TGF-β1 promotes PGC-1α-mediated mitochondrial fusion, which drives metabolic reprogramming from glycolysis to fatty acid oxidation via suppressing HIF-1α expression, and therefore favors the generation of Treg cells. The signals and proteins involved in mitochondrial fusion are potential therapeutic targets for Treg cell-related diseases.
Maturation of antibody responses entails somatic hypermutation (SHM), class-switch DNA recombination (CSR), plasma cell differentiation, and generation of memory B cells, and it is thought to require T cell help. We showed that B cell Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-B cell receptor (BCR) (receptor for antigen) coengagement by 4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenyl acetyl (NP)-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (Escherichia coli lipid A polysaccharide O-antigen) or TLR5-BCR coengagement by Salmonella flagellin induces mature antibody responses to NP and flagellin in Tcrβ-/-Tcrδ-/- and NSG/B mice. TLR-BCR coengagement required linkage of TLR and BCR ligands, "linked coengagement." This induced B cell CSR/SHM, germinal center-like differentiation, clonal expansion, intraconal diversification, plasma cell differentiation, and an anamnestic antibody response. In Tcrβ-/-Tcrδ-/- mice, linked coengagement of TLR4-BCR by LPS or TLR5-BCR by flagellin induced protective antibodies against E. coli or Salmonella Typhimurium. Our findings unveiled a critical role of B cell TLRs in inducing neutralizing antibody responses, including those to microbial pathogens, without T cell help.
The networks of transcription factors (TFs) that control intestinal-resident memory CD8+ T (TRM) cells, including multipotency and effector programs, are poorly understood. In this work, we investigated the role of the TF Bcl11b in TRM cells during infection with Listeria monocytogenes using mice with post-activation, conditional deletion of Bcl11b in CD8+ T cells. Conditional deletion of Bcl11b resulted in increased numbers of intestinal TRM cells and their precursors as well as decreased splenic effector and circulating memory cells and precursors. Loss of circulating memory cells was in part due to increased intestinal homing of Bcl11b-/- circulating precursors, with no major alterations in their programs. Bcl11b-/- TRM cells had altered transcriptional programs, with diminished expression of multipotent/multifunctional (MP/MF) program genes, including Tcf7, and up-regulation of the effector program genes, including Prdm1. Bcl11b also limits the expression of Ahr, another TF with a role in intestinal CD8+ TRM cell differentiation. Deregulation of TRM programs translated into a poor recall response despite TRM cell accumulation in the intestine. Reduced expression of MP/MF program genes in Bcl11b-/- TRM cells was linked to decreased chromatin accessibility and a reduction in activating histone marks at these loci. In contrast, the effector program genes displayed increased activating epigenetic status. These findings demonstrate that Bcl11b is a frontrunner in the tissue residency program of intestinal memory cells upstream of Tcf1 and Blimp1, promoting multipotency and restricting the effector program.
INTRODUCTION: Conducting neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) and additional preoperative consolidating chemotherapy (CTx), that is, total neoadjuvant therapy (TNT), improves local control and complete response (CR) rates in locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC), putting the focus on organ preservation concepts. Therefore, assessing response before surgery is crucial. Some LARC patients would either not benefit from intensification by TNT or may reach CR, making resection not mandatory. Treatment of LARC should therefore be based on patient individual risk and response to avoid overtreatment.The "PRIMO" pilot study aims to determine early response assessment to form a basis for development and validation of a noninvasive response prediction model by a subsequent prospective multicenter trial, which is highly needed for individual, response-driven therapy adaptions.METHODS: PRIMO is a prospective observational cohort study including adult patients with LARC receiving neoadjuvant CRT. At least 4 multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans (diffusion-weighted imaging [DWI] and hypoxia-sensitive sequences) as well as repeated blood samples in order to analyze circulating tumor cells (CTC) and cell-free tumor DNA (ctDNA) are scheduled. Pelvic radiotherapy (RT, 50.4 Gy) will be performed in combination with a 5-fluorouracil/oxaliplatin regimen in all patients (planned: N = 50), succeeded by consolidation CTx (FOLFOX4) if feasible. Additional (immuno)histochemical markers, such as tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) and programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) status will be analyzed before and after CRT. Routine resection is scheduled subsequently, nonoperative management is offered alternatively in case of clinical CR (cCR).The primary endpoint is pathological response; secondary endpoints comprise longitudinal changes in MRI as well as in CTCs and TIL. These are evaluated for early response prediction during neoadjuvant therapy, in order to develop a noninvasive response prediction model for subsequent analyses.DISCUSSION: Early response assessment is the key in differentiating "good" and "bad" responders during neoadjuvant CRT, allowing adaption of subsequent therapies (additional consolidating CTx, organ preservation). This study will contribute in this regard, by advancing MR imaging and substantiating new surrogate markers. Adaptive treatment strategies might build on these results in further studies.
Pituitary apoplexy (PA) is a clinical syndrome caused by ischemia or hemorrhage of the pituitary gland, typically in the context of an adenoma. It typically presents with a thunderclap headache and sterile cerebral spinal fluid (CSF). The authors identify a case of PA, which initially presented with the signs and symptoms of viral meningitis.PRESENTATION OF CASE: A 44-year-old man presented to the emergency department with headache, nuchal rigidity, fever, and delirium. The patient reported a 10-year history of chronic that were partially responsive to acetaminophen. Four days after admission, the patient developed right-sided cranial nerve III, IV, and VI palsies. Labs revealed anemia and hyponatremia. The CSF was leukocytic, lymphocyte-predominant, and had elevated protein. In addition to these results, negative CSF bacterial cultures led the care team to believe this case was viral meningoencephalitis. Routine MRI of the brain at presentation revealed a 3.1×2.5×3.2 (craniocaudal×anterior posterior×transverse) expansile mass centered within the sella turcica. An endocrine workup revealed hypopituitarism. The diagnosis of PA was then made. A microscopic transsphenoidal resection of the sellar mass was performed, and histopathologic analysis confirmed necrotic pituitary adenoma tissue. Following an uncomplicated procedure, the patient recovered fully from his cranial nerve palsies and continues to do well.DISCUSSION: Because life-threatening hypotension from acute adrenal insufficiency can be caused by PA, timely diagnosis is crucial. When a patient presents with meningism, PA should be included in the differential diagnosis.CONCLUSION: This report illustrates a case of PA presenting with symptoms and a CSF profile classically associated with viral meningitis.
OBJECTIVE: Psoriasis (PSO) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that severely affects the physical and mental health of patients. Drug resistance has been developed upon current drug treatments, and there is no specific therapy. The aim of this study was to screen promising novel drug candidates for PSO using molecular dynamics (MD) simulations.METHODS: The data of PSO were downloaded from gene expression omnibus (GEO) database and subjected to variance analysis. Target proteins and small molecule compounds targeting PSO were predicted in the connective map (cMAP) database. Molecular docking, MD simulation, and trajectory analysis were conducted to predict the binding of target proteins to compounds.RESULTS: 1999 differentially expressed genes in PSO were obtained by differential analysis. Through cMAP database prediction, a low Score value of -45.69 for lymphocyte cell-specific protein-tyrosine kinase (LCK) was revealed, and aminogenistein was identified as the compound targeting LCK, and LCK was notably highly expressed in the PSO samples. The drugScore of the binding pocket P_0 was 0.814656, which was docked with aminogenistein. The results showed that there were more than one binding site between LCK and aminogenistein with binding energy less than -7.0 kJ/mol, and the docking was relatively stable. The results of root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF), Gyrate, number of hydrogen bonds and total free binding energy in MD simulations showed that the binding of aminogenistein to LCK was relatively solid.CONCLUSION: Aminogenistein has good protein-ligand interaction and stability with LCK, a target of PSO, and is a novel drug candidate for PSO.
Differences in SARS-CoV-2-specific immune responses have been observed between individuals following natural infection or vaccination. In addition to already known factors, such as age, sex, COVID-19 severity, comorbidity, vaccination status, hybrid immunity, and duration of infection, inter-individual variations in SARS-CoV-2 immune responses may, in part, be explained by structural differences brought about by genetic variation in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules responsible for the presentation of SARS-CoV-2 antigens to T effector cells. While dendritic cells present peptides with HLA class I molecules to CD8+ T cells to induce cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses (CTLs), they present peptides with HLA class II molecules to T follicular helper cells to induce B cell differentiation followed by memory B cell and plasma cell maturation. Plasma cells then produce SARS-CoV-2-specific antibodies. Here, we review published data linking HLA genetic variation or polymorphisms with differences in SARS-CoV-2-specific antibody responses. While there is evidence that heterogeneity in antibody response might be related to HLA variation, there are conflicting findings due in part to differences in study designs. We provide insight into why more research is needed in this area. Elucidating the genetic basis of variability in the SARS-CoV-2 immune response will help to optimize diagnostic tools and lead to the development of new vaccines and therapeutics against SARS-CoV-2 and other infectious diseases.
Central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia (CCCA) is a lymphocytic scarring alopecia that predominantly affects women of African descent. Recent studies have demonstrated prevalence in children and adolescents, as well as Asian populations. A thorough search of Pubmed, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, OVID Medline and Google Scholar was conducted using keywords such as "central centrifugal cicatricial alopecia", "scarring hair loss", "scarring alopecia", "hot comb alopecia", "pediatric" and "adolescent". The results yielded few articles in the literature that directly addressed CCCA in the adolescent population, with three articles providing details of the presentation in the form of case series and retrospective reviews. The presentation in the adolescent population was found to be varied, ranging from asymptomatic to symptomatic and involving diffuse to patchy hair loss in only the vertex and/or frontal and parietal scalp. Genetic and environmental etiologies were found to be statistically significant, and markers of metabolic dysregulation predisposing patients to diabetes mellitus and breast cancer were also uncovered. The differential diagnosis of patients who present with hair loss in the adolescent population should therefore be broad, and a low threshold for biopsies should be adopted to confirm CCCA in suspected patients. This will have future implications for reduced morbidity and public health.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease with chronic inflammation, bone erosion, and joint deformation. Synovial tissue in RA patients is full of proinflammatory cytokines and infiltrated immune cells, such as T help (Th) 9, Th17, macrophages, and osteoclasts. Recent reports emphasized a new member of the interleukin (IL)-10 family, IL-26, an inducer of IL-17A that is overexpressed in RA patients. Our previous works found that IL-26 inhibits osteoclastogenesis and conducts monocyte differentiation toward M1 macrophages. In this study, we aimed to clarify the effect of IL-26 on macrophages linking to Th9 and Th17 in IL-9 and IL-17 expression and downstream signal transduction. Murine and human macrophage cell lines and primary culture cells were used and stimulated by IL26. Cytokines expressions were evaluated by flow cytometry. Signal transduction and transcription factors expression were detected by Western blot and real time-PCR. Our results show that IL-26 and IL-9 colocalized in macrophage in RA synovium. IL-26 directly induces macrophage inflammatory cytokines IL-9 and IL-17A expression. IL-26 increases the IL-9 and IL-17A upstream mechanisms IRF4 and RelB expression. Moreover, the AKT-FoxO1 pathway is also activated by IL-26 in IL-9 and IL-17A expressing macrophage. Blockage of AKT phosphorylation enhances IL-26 stimulating IL-9-producing macrophage cells. In conclusion, our results support that IL-26 promotes IL-9- and IL-17-expressing macrophage and might initiate IL-9- and IL-17-related adaptive immunity in rheumatoid arthritis. Targeting IL-26 may a potential therapeutic strategy for rheumatoid arthritis or other IL-9 plus IL-17 dominant diseases.
In the past, our research group was able to successfully remove circulating tumor cells with magnetic nanoparticles. While these cancer cells are typically present in low numbers, we hypothesized that magnetic nanoparticles, besides catching single cells, are also capable of eliminating a large number of tumor cells from the blood ex vivo. This approach was tested in a small pilot study in blood samples of patients suffering from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a mature B-cell neoplasm. Cluster of differentiation (CD) 52 is a ubiquitously expressed surface antigen on mature lymphocytes. Alemtuzumab (MabCampath®) is a humanized, IgG1κ, monoclonal antibody directed against CD52, which was formerly clinically approved for treating chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and therefore regarded as an ideal candidate for further tests to develop new treatment options. Alemtuzumab was bound onto carbon-coated cobalt nanoparticles. The particles were added to blood samples of CLL patients and finally removed, ideally with bound B lymphocytes, using a magnetic column. Flow cytometry quantified lymphocyte counts before, after the first, and after the second flow across the column. A mixed effects analysis was performed to evaluate removal efficiency. p < 0.05 was defined as significant. In the first patient cohort (n = 10), using a fixed nanoparticle concentration, CD19-positive B lymphocytes were reduced by 38% and by 53% after the first and the second purification steps (p = 0.002 and p = 0.005), respectively. In a second patient cohort (n = 11), the nanoparticle concentration was increased, and CD19-positive B lymphocytes were reduced by 44% (p < 0.001) with no further removal after the second purification step. In patients with a high lymphocyte count (>20 G/L), an improved efficiency of approximately 20% was observed using higher nanoparticle concentrations. A 40 to 50% reduction of B lymphocyte count using alemtuzumab-coupled carbon-coated cobalt nanoparticles is feasible, also in patients with a high lymphocyte count. A second purification step did not further increase removal. This proof-of-concept study demonstrates that such particles allow for the targeted extraction of larger amounts of cellular blood components and might offer new treatment options in the far future.
Update of    bioRxiv. 2023 Mar 01;:
Immunosuppression plays a significant role in tumor recurrence and metastasis, ultimately causing poor survival outcomes. Overcoming immunosuppression and stimulating durable antitumor immunity are essential for tumor treatment. In our previous study, a novel cryo-thermal therapy involving liquid nitrogen freezing and radiofrequency heating could reduce the proportion of Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), but the remaining MDSCs produced IL-6 by the NF-κB pathway, resulting in an impaired therapeutic effect. Therefore, here we combined cryo-thermal therapy with anti-IL-6 treatment to target the MDSC-dominant immunosuppressive environment, thereby optimizing the efficacy of cryo-thermal therapy. We found that combinational treatment significantly increased the long-term survival rate of breast cancer-bearing mice. Mechanistic investigation revealed that combination therapy was capable of reducing the proportion of MDSCs in the spleen and blood while promoting their maturation, which resulted in increased Th1-dominant CD4+ T-cell differentiation and enhancement of CD8+ T-mediated tumor killing. In addition, CD4+ Th1 cells promoted mature MDSCs to produce IL-7 through IFN-γ, indirectly contributing to the maintenance of Th1-dominant antitumor immunity in a positive feedback loop. Our work suggests an attractive immunotherapeutic strategy targeting the MDSC-dominant immunosuppressive environment, which would offer exciting opportunities for highly immunosuppressive and unresectable tumors in the clinic.
Nephropathia epidemica (NE), caused by the hantavirus infection, is endemic in Tatarstan Russia. The majority of patients are adults, with infection rarely diagnosed in children. This limited number of pediatric NE cases means there is an inadequate understanding of disease pathogenesis in this age category. Here, we have analyzed clinical and laboratory data in adults and children with NE to establish whether and how the disease severity differs between the two age groups. Serum cytokines were analyzed in samples collected from 11 children and 129 adult NE patients during an outbreak in 2019. A kidney toxicity panel was also used to analyze urine samples from these patients. Additionally, serum and urine samples were analyzed from 11 control children and 26 control adults. Analysis of clinical and laboratory data revealed that NE was milder in children than in adults. A variation in serum cytokine activation could explain the differences in clinical presentation. Cytokines associated with activation of Th1 lymphocytes were prominent in adults, while they were obscured in sera from pediatric NE patients. In addition, a prolonged activation of kidney injury markers was found in adults with NE, whilst only a short-lasting activation of these markers was observed in children with NE. These findings support previous observations of age differences in NE severity, which should be considered when diagnosing the disease in children.
Type II endometrial cancer (EC) is responsible for most endometrial cancer-related deaths due to its aggressive nature, late-stage detection, and high tolerance to standard therapies. Thus, novel treatment strategies for type II EC are imperative. For patients with mismatch repair-deficient (dMMR) tumors, immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors represents a promising therapeutic strategy. However, the prevalence of dMMR tumors in type II EC patients remains unclear. In this study, using immunohistochemistry, we evaluated the expression of mismatch repair (MMR) proteins, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (CD8+), and immune checkpoint molecules (PD-L1) in 60 patients with type II EC (16, 5, 17, and 22 were endometrioid G3, serous, de-differentiated, and carcinosarcoma cases, respectively) to investigate the therapeutic effect of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Approximately 24 cases (40%) had a loss of MMR protein expression. The positivity rate of CD8+ (p = 0.0072) and PD-L1 (p = 0.0061) expression was significantly associated with the dMMR group. These results suggest immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-PD-L1/PD-1 antibodies) could effectively treat type II EC with dMMR. The presence of dMMR might be a biomarker for a positive response to PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy in type II EC.
Vitamin D is a group of lipophilic hormones with pleiotropic actions. It has been traditionally related to bone metabolism, although several studies in the last decade have suggested its role in sarcopenia, cardiovascular and neurological diseases, insulin-resistance and diabetes, malignancies, and autoimmune diseases and infections. In the pandemic era, by considering the response of the different branches of the immune system to SARS-CoV-2 infection, our aims are both to analyse, among the pleiotropic effects of vitamin D, how its strong multimodal modulatory effect on the immune system is able to affect the pathophysiology of COVID-19 disease and to emphasise a possible relationship between the well-known circannual fluctuations in blood levels of this hormone and the epidemiological trend of this infection, particularly in the elderly population. The biologically active form of vitamin D, or calcitriol, can influence both the innate and the adaptive arm of the immune response. Calcifediol levels have been found to be inversely correlated with upper respiratory tract infections in several studies, and this activity seems to be related to its role in the innate immunity. Cathelicidin is one of the main underlying mechanisms since this peptide increases the phagocytic and germicidal activity acting as chemoattractant for neutrophils and monocytes, and representing the first barrier in the respiratory epithelium to pathogenic invasion. Furthermore, vitamin D exerts a predominantly inhibitory action on the adaptive immune response, and it influences either cell-mediated or humoral immunity through suppression of B cells proliferation, immunoglobulins production or plasma cells differentiation. This role is played by promoting the shift from a type 1 to a type 2 immune response. In particular, the suppression of Th1 response is due to the inhibition of T cells proliferation, pro-inflammatory cytokines production (e.g., INF-γ, TNF-α, IL-2, IL-17) and macrophage activation. Finally, T cells also play a fundamental role in viral infectious diseases. CD4 T cells provide support to B cells antibodies production and coordinate the activity of the other immunological cells; moreover, CD8 T lymphocytes remove infected cells and reduce viral load. For all these reasons, calcifediol could have a protective role in the lung damage produced by COVID-19 by both modulating the sensitivity of tissue to angiotensin II and promoting overexpression of ACE-2. Promising results for the potential effectiveness of vitamin D supplementation in reducing the severity of COVID-19 disease was demonstrated in a pilot clinical trial of 76 hospitalised patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection where oral calcifediol administration reduced the need for ICU treatment. These interesting results need to be confirmed in larger studies with available information on vitamin D serum levels.
When tumor cells are infected by the Newcastle disease virus (NDV), the lysis of tumor cells by natural killer (NK) cells is enhanced, which may be related to the enhanced NK cell activation effect. To better understand the intracellular molecular mechanisms involved in NK cell activation, the transcriptome profiles of NK cells stimulated by NDV-infected hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells (NDV group) and control (NC group, NK cells stimulated by HCC cells) were analyzed. In total, we identified 1568 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the NK cells of the NDV group compared to the control, including 1389 upregulated and 179 downregulated genes. Functional analysis showed that DEGs were enriched in the immune system, signal transmission, cell growth, cell death, and cancer pathways. Notably, 9 genes from the IFN family were specifically increased in NK cells upon NDV infection and identified as potential prognosis markers for patients with HCC. A qRT-PCR experiment was used to confirm the differential expression of IFNG and the other 8 important genes. The results of this study will improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of NK cell activation.
BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neuroinflammatory disease in which pregnancy leads to a temporary amelioration in disease activity as indicated by the profound decrease in relapses rate during the 3rd trimester of pregnancy. CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are implicated in MS pathogenesis as being key regulators of inflammation and brain lesion formation. Although Tcells are prime candidates for the pregnancy-associated improvement of MS, the precise mechanisms are yet unclear, and in particular, a deep characterization of the epigenetic and transcriptomic events that occur in peripheral T cells during pregnancy in MS is lacking.METHODS: Women with MS and healthy controls were longitudinally sampled before, during (1st, 2nd and 3rd trimesters) and after pregnancy. DNA methylation array and RNA sequencing were performed on paired CD4+ and CD8+ T cells samples. Differential analysis and network-based approaches were used to analyze the global dynamics of epigenetic and transcriptomic changes.RESULTS: Both DNA methylation and RNA sequencing revealed a prominent regulation, mostly peaking in the 3rd trimester and reversing post-partum, thus mirroring the clinical course with improvement followed by a worsening in disease activity. This rebound pattern was found to represent a general adaptation of the maternal immune system, with only minor differences between MS and controls. By using a network-based approach, we highlighted several genes at the core of this pregnancy-induced regulation, which were found to be enriched for genes and pathways previously reported to be involved in MS. Moreover, these pathways were enriched for in vitro stimulated genes and pregnancy hormones targets.CONCLUSION: This study represents, to our knowledge, the first in-depth investigation of the methylation and expression changes in peripheral CD4+ and CD8+ T cells during pregnancy in MS. Our findings indicate that pregnancy induces profound changes in peripheral T cells, in both MS and healthy controls, which are associated with the modulation of inflammation and MS activity.
Human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDC) are commonly used as a research tool to investigate interactions between antigen-presenting cells and T cells. Generation of these cells involves the isolation of CD14 positive monocytes from peripheral blood and their in vitro differentiation into immature moDC by the cytokines GM-CSF and IL-4. Their functional characteristics can then be manipulated by maturing these cells with a cocktail of agents, which can be tailored to induce either immune activating or tolerogenic properties. Here, we describe a protocol for the generation of moDC with stable tolerogenic function, referred to as tolerogenic dendritic cells. These cells have been developed as an immunotherapeutic tool for the treatment of autoimmune disease but have also proven useful to dissect mechanisms of T cell tolerance induction in vitro.
The immune synapse is a key structure organizing T-cell activation against foreign entities, such as cancer cells expressing neoantigens. One crucial step in this activation cascade is the intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) response that shapes T cells for proliferation, differentiation, and cytotoxicity. The development of calcium probes coupled to real-time fluorescence microscopy has allowed a close study of this phenomenon in vitro. Such systems have provided valuable insights on the consequences of Ca2+ responses on T cells, including cytotoxicity and cytoskeletal remodeling. However, in vitro models do not recapitulate the tissue architecture that T cells come in contact with in vivo. Thus, there is a growing necessity for better understanding the factors influencing Ca2+ response in T cells including in genetically modified T cells (e.g., CAR T cells). In this methodology chapter, we describe an experimental system to measure [Ca2+]i signals of CAR T cells loaded with the calcium probe Fluo-4 on fresh tumor slices. Combined with confocal fluorescent imaging, this model offers an approach to image early T-cell activation in a three-dimensional (3D) tissue environment.
Sjögren's Syndrome (SjS) is a chronic systemic immune-mediated inflammatory disease characterized by lymphocytic infiltration and consequent lesion of exocrine glands. SjS diagnosis and classification remains a challenge, especially at SjS onset, when patients may have milder phenotypes of the disease or uncommon presentations. New biomarkers are needed for the classification of SjS, thus, we aimed to evaluate the added-value of lymphocyte subpopulations in discriminating SjS and non-Sjögren Sicca patients. Lymphocyte subsets from 62 SjS and 63 Sicca patients were characterized by flow cytometry. The 2002 AECG and the 2016 ACR/EULAR SjS classification criteria were compared with clinical diagnosis. The added discriminative ability of joining lymphocytic populations to classification criteria was assessed by the area under the Receiver-Operating-Characteristic Curve (AUC). Considering clinical diagnosis as the gold-standard, we obtained an AUC = 0.952 (95% CI: 0.916-0.989) for AECG and an AUC = 0.921 (95% CI: 0.875-0.966) for ACR/EULAR criteria. Adding Tfh and Bm1 subsets to AECG criteria, performance increased, attaining an AUC = 0.985 (95% CI: 0.968-1.000) (p = 0.021). Th1/Breg-like CD24hiCD27+ and switched-memory B-cells maximized the AUC of ACR/EULAR criteria to 0.953 (95% CI: 0.916-0.990) (p = 0.043). Our exploratory study supports the potential use of lymphocyte subpopulations, such as unswitched memory B cells, to improve the performance of classification criteria, since their discriminative ability increases when specific subsets are added to the criteria.
Cylindrospermopsin (CYN) is a cyanotoxin with an increasing occurrence, and therefore it is important to elucidate its toxicity profile. CYN has been classified as a cytotoxin, although the scientific literature has already revealed that it affects a wide range of organs and systems. However, research on its potential immunotoxicity is still limited. Thus, this study aimed to evaluate the impact of CYN on two human cell lines representative of the immune system: THP-1 (monocytes) and Jurkat (lymphocytes). CYN reduced cell viability, leading to mean effective concentrations (EC50 24 h) of 6.00 ± 1.04 µM and 5.20 ± 1.20 µM for THP-1 and Jurkat cells, respectively, and induced cell death mainly by apoptosis in both experimental models. Moreover, CYN decreased the differentiation of monocytes to macrophages after 48 h of exposure. In addition, an up-regulation of the mRNA expression of different cytokines, such as interleukin (IL) 2, IL-8, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interferon-gamma (INF-γ), was also observed mainly after 24 h exposure in both cell lines. However, only an increase in TNF-α in THP-1 supernatants was observed by ELISA. Overall, these results suggest the immunomodulatory activity of CYN in vitro. Therefore, further research is required to evaluate the impact of CYN on the human immune system.
The immune status of mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) infection is essential for the diagnosis and treatment of this disease. In this work, we aim to evaluate the clinical significance of the combination of serum IFN-γ, IGRAs (Interferon-Gamma Release Assay), lymphocyte subset with activation indicators detection in active and latent tuberculosis infection patients. For this study, anticoagulant whole blood were collected from 45 active tuberculosis (AT group), 44 latent tuberculosis (LT group) and 32 healthy controls (HCs group). The serum IFN-γ and IGRAs detected by chemiluminescence, and the percentage of lymphocyte subsets and activated lymphocytes detected by flow cytometry. The results showed combined IGRAs, serum IFN-γ and NKT cells not only has good diagnostic efficiency for the AT, but also provides a laboratory diagnostic method to distinguish AT from LT. Activation indicator of CD3+HLA-DR+T and CD4+HLA-DR+T can effectively distinguish LT from HCs. While combined CD3+T, CD4+T, CD8+CD28+T, Treg and CD16+CD56+CD69+ cells can distinguish AT from HCs. This study showed combined direct detection of serum IFN-γ and IGRAs as well as lymphocyte subsets with activation indicators which may provide laboratory basis for the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of active and latent MTB infection.
BACKGROUND: The continuous proliferation of intestinal stem cells followed by their tightly regulated differentiation to epithelial cells is essential for the maintenance of the gut epithelial barrier and its functions. How these processes are tuned by diet and gut microbiome is an important, but poorly understood question. Dietary soluble fibers, such as inulin, are known for their ability to impact the gut bacterial community and gut epithelium, and their consumption has been usually associated with health improvement in mice and humans. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that inulin consumption modifies the composition of colonic bacteria and this impacts intestinal stem cells functions, thus affecting the epithelial structure.METHODS: Mice were fed with a diet containing 5% of the insoluble fiber cellulose or the same diet enriched with an additional 10% of inulin. Using a combination of histochemistry, host cell transcriptomics, 16S microbiome analysis, germ-free, gnotobiotic, and genetically modified mouse models, we analyzed the impact of inulin intake on the colonic epithelium, intestinal bacteria, and the local immune compartment.RESULTS: We show that the consumption of inulin diet alters the colon epithelium by increasing the proliferation of intestinal stem cells, leading to deeper crypts and longer colons. This effect was dependent on the inulin-altered gut microbiota, as no modulations were observed in animals deprived of microbiota, nor in mice fed cellulose-enriched diets. We also describe the pivotal role of γδ T lymphocytes and IL-22 in this microenvironment, as the inulin diet failed to induce epithelium remodeling in mice lacking this T cell population or cytokine, highlighting their importance in the diet-microbiota-epithelium-immune system crosstalk.CONCLUSION: This study indicates that the intake of inulin affects the activity of intestinal stem cells and drives a homeostatic remodeling of the colon epithelium, an effect that requires the gut microbiota, γδ T cells, and the presence of IL-22. Our study indicates complex cross kingdom and cross cell type interactions involved in the adaptation of the colon epithelium to the luminal environment in steady state. Video Abstract.
Immunotherapies have revolutionized cancer treatment modalities; however, predicting clinical response accurately and reliably remains challenging. Neoantigen load is considered as a fundamental genetic determinant of therapeutic response. However, only a few predicted neoantigens are highly immunogenic, with little focus on intratumor heterogeneity (ITH) in the neoantigen landscape and its link with different features in the tumor microenvironment. To address this issue, we comprehensively characterized neoantigens arising from nonsynonymous mutations and gene fusions in lung cancer and melanoma. We developed a composite NEO2IS to characterize interplays between cancer and CD8+ T-cell populations. NEO2IS improved prediction accuracy of patient responses to immune-checkpoint blockades (ICBs). We found that TCR repertoire diversity was consistent with the neoantigen heterogeneity under evolutionary selections. Our defined neoantigen ITH score (NEOITHS) reflected infiltration degree of CD8+ T lymphocytes with different differentiation states and manifested the impact of negative selection pressure on CD8+ T-cell lineage heterogeneity or tumor ecosystem plasticity. We classified tumors into distinct immune subtypes and examined how neoantigen-T cells interactions affected disease progression and treatment response. Overall, our integrated framework helps profile neoantigen patterns that elicit T-cell immunoreactivity, enhance the understanding of evolving tumor-immune interplays and improve prediction of ICBs efficacy.
Immune cells are responsible for pathogen detection and elimination, as well as for signaling to other cells the presence of potential danger. In order to mount an efficient immune response, they need to move and search for a pathogen, interact with other cells, and diversify the population by asymmetric cell division. All these actions are regulated by cell polarity: cell polarity controls cell motility, which is crucial for scanning peripheral tissues to detect pathogens, and recruiting immune cells to sites of infection; immune cells, in particular lymphocytes, communicate with each other by a direct contact called immunological synapse, which entails a global polarization of the cell and plays a role in activating lymphocyte response; finally, immune cells divide asymmetrically from a precursor, generating a diversity of phenotypes and cell types among daughter cells, such as memory and effector cells. This review aims at providing an overview from both biology and physics perspectives of how cell polarity shapes the main immune cell functions.
When an organism is challenged with a pathogen a cascade of events unfolds. The innate immune system rapidly mounts a preliminary nonspecific defense, while the acquired immune system slowly develops microbe-killing specialists. These responses cause inflammation, and along with the pathogen cause direct and indirect tissue damage, which anti-inflammatory mediators seek to temper. This interplay of systems is credited for maintaining homeostasis but may produce unexpected results such as disease tolerance. Tolerance is characterized by the persistence of pathogen and damage mitigation, where the relevant mechanisms are poorly understood. In this work we develop an ordinary differential equations model of the immune response to infection in order to identify key components in tolerance. Bifurcation analysis uncovers health, immune- and pathogen-mediated death clinical outcomes dependent on pathogen growth rate. We demonstrate that decreasing the inflammatory response to damage and increasing the strength of the immune system gives rise to a region in which limit cycles, or periodic solutions, are the only biological trajectories. We then describe areas of parameter space corresponding to disease tolerance by varying immune cell decay, pathogen removal, and lymphocyte proliferation rates.
Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) genetically depleted of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) class I expression can bypass T cell alloimmunity and thus serve as a one-for-all source for cell therapies. However, these same therapies may elicit rejection by natural killer (NK) cells, since HLA class I molecules serve as inhibitory ligands of NK cells. Here, we focused on testing the capacity of endogenously developed human NK cells in humanized mice (hu-mice) using MTSRG and NSG-SGM3 strains to assay the tolerance of HLA-edited iPSC-derived cells. High NK cell reconstitution was achieved with the engraftment of cord blood-derived human hematopoietic stem cells (hHSCs) followed by the administration of human interleukin-15 (hIL-15) and IL-15 receptor alpha (hIL-15Rα). Such "hu-NK mice" rejected HLA class I-null hiPSC-derived hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs), megakaryocytes and T cells, but not HLA-A/B-knockout, HLA-C expressing HPCs. To our knowledge, this study is the first to recapitulate the potent endogenous NK cell response to non-tumor HLA class I-downregulated cells in vivo. Our hu-NK mouse models are suitable for the non-clinical evaluation of HLA-edited cells and will contribute to the development of universal off-the-shelf regenerative medicine.
PURPOSE: In the two-cohort phase II KEYNOTE-086 study (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02447003), first-line and second-line or later pembrolizumab monotherapy demonstrated antitumor activity in metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC; N = 254). This exploratory analysis evaluates the association between prespecified molecular biomarkers and clinical outcomes.METHODS: Cohort A enrolled patients with disease progression after one or more systemic therapies for metastatic disease irrespective of PD-L1 status; Cohort B enrolled patients with previously untreated PD-L1-positive (combined positive score [CPS] ≥ 1) metastatic disease. The association between the following biomarkers as continuous variables and clinical outcomes (objective response rate [ORR], progression-free survival [PFS], and overall survival [OS]) was evaluated: PD-L1 CPS (immunohistochemistry), cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8; immunohistochemistry), stromal tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (sTIL; hematoxylin and eosin staining), tumor mutational burden (TMB; whole-exome sequencing [WES]), homologous recombination deficiency-loss of heterozygosity, mutational signature 3 (WES), mutational signature 2 (apolipoprotein B mRNA editing catalytic polypeptide-like; WES), T-cell-inflamed gene expression profile (TcellinfGEP; RNA sequencing), and 10 non-TcellinfGEP signatures (RNA sequencing); Wald test P values were calculated, and significance was prespecified at α = 0.05.RESULTS: In the combined cohorts (A and B), PD-L1 (P = .040), CD8 (P < .001), sTILs (P = .012), TMB (P = .007), and TcellinfGEP (P = .011) were significantly associated with ORR; CD8 (P < .001), TMB (P = .034), Signature 3 (P = .009), and TcellinfGEP (P = .002) with PFS; and CD8 (P < .001), sTILs (P = .004), TMB (P = .025), and TcellinfGEP (P = .001) with OS. None of the non-TcellinfGEP signatures were associated with outcomes of pembrolizumab after adjusting for the TcellinfGEP.CONCLUSION: In this exploratory biomarker analysis from KEYNOTE-086, baseline tumor PD-L1, CD8, sTILs, TMB, and TcellinfGEP were associated with improved clinical outcomes of pembrolizumab and may help identify patients with mTNBC who are most likely to respond to pembrolizumab monotherapy.
EWSR1/FUS-CREB-rearranged mesenchymal neoplasms are an emerging heterogeneous group of soft tissue tumors that encompasses low-grade lesions (angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma/AFH) and a group of predominantly intra-abdominal aggressive sarcomas with epithelioid morphology and frequent keratin expression. Both entities occasionally harbor EWSR1::ATF1 fusions as alternate to the more frequent EWSR1/FUS::CREB1/CREM fusions. Although EWSR1/FUS-CREB-rearranged epithelioid malignant neoplasms have been described in diverse intra-abdominal sites, none involved the female adnexa. Herein, we describe three cases involving uterine adnexa in young females (41, 39, and 42-year-old); two associated with constitutional inflammatory symptoms. The tumors presented as a serosal surface mass of the ovary without parenchymal involvement (Case 1), as circumscribed nodule within ovarian parenchyma (Case 2), and as a periadnexal mass extending into the lateral uterine wall with lymph node metastasis (Case 3). They were composed of sheets and nests of large epithelioid cells with numerous stromal lymphocytes and plasma cells. The neoplastic cells expressed desmin and EMA, and variably WT1. One tumor expressed in addition AE1/AE3, MUC4, synaptophysin, chromogranin, and ALK. None expressed sex cord-associated markers. RNA sequencing identified EWSR1::ATF1 fusions in two cases and an EWSR1::CREM fusion in one. Exome-based RNA capture sequencing and clustering methods showed high transcriptomic proximity of tumor 1 with soft tissue AFH. This novel subset of female adnexal neoplasms should be included in the differential diagnosis of any epithelioid neoplasm involving female adnexa. Their aberrant immunophenotype can be misleading, underlining a wide spectrum of differential diagnosis.
Control of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection requires generation of T cells that migrate to granulomas, complex immune structures surrounding sites of bacterial replication. Here we compared the gene expression profiles of T cells in pulmonary granulomas, bronchoalveolar lavage, and blood of Mtb-infected rhesus macaques to identify granuloma-enriched T cell genes. TNFRSF8/CD30 was among the top genes upregulated in both CD4 and CD8 T cells from granulomas. In mice, CD30 expression on CD4 T cells is required for survival of Mtb infection, and there is no major role for CD30 in protection by other cell types. Transcriptomic comparison of WT and CD30-/- CD4 T cells from the lungs of Mtb-infected mixed bone marrow chimeric mice showed that CD30 directly promotes CD4 T cell differentiation and the expression of multiple effector molecules. These results demonstrate that the CD30 co-stimulatory axis is highly upregulated on granuloma T cells and is critical for protective T cell responses against Mtb infection.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, The First Affilicated Hospital of Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu 233000, Anhui Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, The First Affilicated Hospital of Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu 233000, Anhui Province, China,E-mail：13855249678@139.com.(3)School of Translational Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai 201100, China.
Here, we provide an in-depth analysis of the usefulness of single-sample metabolite/RNA extraction for multi-'omics readout. Using pulverized frozen livers of mice injected with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) or vehicle (Veh), we isolated RNA prior (RNA) or following metabolite extraction (MetRNA). RNA sequencing (RNAseq) data were evaluated for differential expression analysis and dispersion, and differential metabolite abundance was determined. Both RNA and MetRNA clustered together by principal component analysis, indicating that inter-individual differences were the largest source of variance. Over 85% of LCMV versus Veh differentially expressed genes were shared between extraction methods, with the remaining 15% evenly and randomly divided between groups. Differentially expressed genes unique to the extraction method were attributed to randomness around the 0.05 FDR cut-off and stochastic changes in variance and mean expression. In addition, analysis using the mean absolute difference showed no difference in the dispersion of transcripts between extraction methods. Altogether, our data show that prior metabolite extraction preserves RNAseq data quality, which enables us to confidently perform integrated pathway enrichment analysis on metabolomics and RNAseq data from a single sample. This analysis revealed pyrimidine metabolism as the most LCMV-impacted pathway. Combined analysis of genes and metabolites in the pathway exposed a pattern in the degradation of pyrimidine nucleotides leading to uracil generation. In support of this, uracil was among the most differentially abundant metabolites in serum upon LCMV infection. Our data suggest that hepatic uracil export is a novel phenotypic feature of acute infection and highlight the usefulness of our integrated single-sample multi-'omics approach.
Dynamic Network Analysis (DyNA) and Dynamic Hypergraphs (DyHyp) were used to define protein-level inflammatory networks at the local (wound effluent) and systemic circulation (serum) levels from 140 active-duty, injured service members (59 with TBI and 81 non-TBI). Interleukin (IL)-17A was the only biomarker elevated significantly in both serum and effluent in TBI vs. non-TBI casualties, and the mediator with the most DyNA connections in TBI wounds. DyNA combining serum and effluent data to define cross-compartment correlations suggested that IL-17A bridges local and systemic circulation at late time points. DyHyp suggested that systemic IL-17A upregulation in TBI patients was associated with tumor necrosis factor-α, while IL-17A downregulation in non-TBI patients was associated with interferon-γ. Correlation analysis suggested differential upregulation of pathogenic Th17 cells, non-pathogenic Th17 cells, and memory/effector T cells. This was associated with reduced procalcitonin in both effluent and serum of TBI patients, in support of an antibacterial effect of Th17 cells in TBI patients. Dysregulation of Th17 responses following TBI may drive cross-compartment inflammation following combat injury, counteracting wound infection at the cost of elevated systemic inflammation.
T cell activation stimulates substantially increased protein synthesis activity to accumulate sufficient biomass for cell proliferation. The protein synthesis is fueled by the amino acids transported from the environment. Steroid nuclear receptor coactivator 2 (SRC2) is a member of a family of transcription coactivators. Here, we show that SRC2 recruited by c-Myc enhances CD4+ T cell activation to stimulate immune responses via upregulation of amino acid transporter Slc7a5. Mice deficient of SRC2 in T cells (SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre) are resistant to the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and susceptible to Citrobacter rodentium (C. rodentium) infection. Adoptive transfer of naive CD4+ T cells from SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre mice fails to elicit EAE and colitis in Rag1/ recipients. Further, CD4+ T cells from SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre mice display defective T cell proliferation, cytokine production, and differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanically, SRC2 functions as a coactivator to work together with c-Myc to stimulate the expression of amino acid transporter Slc7a5 required for T cell activation. Slc7a5 fails to be up-regulated in CD4+ T cells from SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre mice, and forced expression of Slc7a5 rescues proliferation, cytokine production, and the ability of SRC2fl/fl/CD4Cre CD4+ T cells to induce EAE. Therefore, SRC2 is essential for CD4+ T cell activation and, thus, a potential drug target for controlling CD4+ T cell-mediated autoimmunity.
PURPOSE: To explore the potential role of plasma-derived exosomal microRNAs (miRNAs) in the development of regulatory T cell (Treg)/T helper 17 (Th17) cell imbalances in Behçet's uveitis (BU).METHODS: The exosome treatment was conducted to evaluate the effects of plasma exosomes from patients with active BU and healthy controls on the Treg/Th17 cell balance. miRNA sequencing analysis of plasma exosomes was conducted to identify differentially expressed miRNAs between patients with active BU and healthy controls. miRTarBase analysis and dual-luciferase reporter assays were conducted to identify the target genes of miR-19b-3p. CD4+T cells were transfected with miR-19b-3p mimic or inhibitor to evaluate its regulation of the Treg/Th17 cell balance. The Treg/Th17 cell balance in CD4+T cells was evaluated by flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.RESULTS: Exosomes from patients with active BU promoted Th17 cell differentiation and inhibited Treg cell differentiation. MiRNA sequencing analysis revealed 177 upregulated and 274 downregulated miRNAs in plasma exosomes of patients with active BU. Among them, miR-19b-3p was significantly elevated, and its target genes were identified as being involved in T-cell differentiation. miR-19b-3p overexpression downregulated CD46 expression and the Treg/Th17 cell ratio in CD4+T cells from healthy controls, whereas miR-19b-3p inhibition reversed these regulatory effects and restored the Treg/Th17 cell balance of CD4+T cells from patients with active BU.CONCLUSIONS: Plasma-derived exosomes from patients with active BU showed a markedly differential miRNA expression in comparison to healthy controls. Highly expressed miRNA-19b-3p could induce a Treg/Th17 cell imbalance, probably by downregulating CD46 expression.
Objectives: Approximately 240 million individuals are infected with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) worldwide. HBV infection can develop into liver fibrosis. The mechanism of HBV-related liver fibrosis has not been fully understood, and there are few effective treatment options. The goal of this study was to use transcriptomics in conjunction with experimental validation to identify new targets to treat HBV-related liver fibrosis. Methods: To identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), five liver tissues were collected from both healthy individuals and patients with chronic hepatitis B. NovoMagic and Java GSEA were used to screen DEGs and key genes, respectively. Immunocell infiltration analysis of RNA-seq data was, and the results were confirmed by Western blotting (WB), real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and immunohistochemistry. Results: We evaluated 1,105 genes with differential expression, and 462 and 643 genes showed down- and upregulation, respectively. The essential genes, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor-2 (TRAF2), were screened out of DEGs. TRAF2 expression was abnormally high in hepatic fibrosis in patients with hepatitis B compared with healthy controls. The degree of hepatic fibrosis and serum levels of glutamate transaminase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and total bilirubin (TBIL) were positively linked with TRAF2 expression. TRAF2 may be crucial in controlling T lymphocyte-mediated liver fibrosis. Conclusion: Our findings imply that TRAF2 is essential for HBV-induced liver fibrosis progression, and it may potentially be a promising target for the treatment of hepatic fibrosis in hepatitis B.
Pulmonary nodular lymphoid hyperplasia (PNLH) is a rare non-neoplastic disease that presents with mass lesions in the lung. It is radiologically difficult to differentiate it from adenocarcinoma of the lung or pulmonary lymphoma. There has been no consensus regarding the treatment of PNLH; however, in many case series, patients usually undergo surgical resection for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. Here, we present the case of a 60-year-old Chinese male who presented with cough and hemoptysis. A computed tomography scan of the thorax revealed a mass-like lesion. A biopsy was performed which showed lymphocytic pneumonitis. He was treated with a tapering dose of corticosteroids with good clinical and radiological outcomes. Upon a subsequent review of the case, a diagnosis of PNLH was made. This case report suggests that corticosteroids may be an alternative therapy to surgical resection. They have the advantage of being non-invasive and can be used in patients who are otherwise not surgical candidates due to other comorbidities. However, further research is required before we can recommend corticosteroids as a treatment for PNLH.
BACKGROUND: Cardiac arrhythmia is a common disease associated with high mortality and morbidity. Circulating leukocyte counts, which serve as a biomarker for assessing systemic immune status, have been linked to arrhythmias in observational studies. However, observational studies are plagued by confounding factors and reverse causality, whether alterations in circulating leukocyte components are causally associated with arrhythmias remains uncertain. The present study explored this question based on genetic evidence.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We performed Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to evaluate whether alterations in leukocyte counts affect aggregated risk of all types of arrhythmia or risk of five specific types of arrhythmia. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms serving as proxies for leukocyte differential counts were retrieved from the Blood Cell Consortium, and statistical data on arrhythmias were obtained from the UK Biobank), FinnGenand a meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies for atrial fibrillation. We applied inverse variance-weighted method as the primary analysis, complemented by a series of sensitivity analyses. Bidirectional analyses were conducted to assess reverse causality. Finally, multivariable MR was performed to study the joint effects of multiple risk factors. We found that genetically predicted differential leukocyte counts were not significantly associated with aggregated occurrence of all types of arrhythmia. In contrast, each 1-standard deviation increase in lymphocyte count was associated with 46% higher risk of atrioventricular block (OR 1.46, 95% CI 1.11-1.93, p=0.0065). A similar effect size was observed across all MR sensitivity analyses, with no evidence of horizontal pleiotropy. Reverse MR analysis suggested that atrioventricular block was unlikely to cause changes in lymphocyte count. Primary MR analysis based on the inverse-variance weighted method suggested that changes in neutrophil count alter risk of right bundle branch block, and changes in basophil count alter risk of atrial fibrillation. However, these causal relationships were not robust in sensitivity analyses. We found no compelling evidence that neutrophil or lymphocyte counts cause atrial fibrillation.CONCLUSION: Our data support higher lymphocyte count as a causal risk factor for atrioventricular block. These results highlight the importance of immune cells in the pathogenesis of specific cardiac conduction disorders.
BACKGROUND: Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), the main component in the tumor microenvironment, play a critical role in the antitumor immune response. Few studies have developed a prognostic model based on TILs in osteosarcoma.METHODS: ScRNA-seq data was obtained from our previous research and bulk RNA transcriptome data was from TARGET database. WGCNA was used to obtain the immune-related gene modules. Subsequently, we applied LASSO regression analysis and SVM algorithm to construct a prognostic model based on TILs marker genes. What's more, the prognostic model was verified by external datasets and experiment in vitro.RESULTS: Eleven cell clusters and 2044 TILs marker genes were identified. WGCNA results showed that 545 TILs marker genes were the most strongly related with immune. Subsequently, a risk model including 5 genes was developed. We found that the survival rate was higher in the low-risk group and the risk model could be used as an independent prognostic factor. Meanwhile, high-risk patients had a lower abundance of immune cell infiltration and many immune checkpoint genes were highly expressed in the low-risk group. The prognostic model was also demonstrated to be a good predictive capacity in external datasets. The result of RT-qPCR indicated that these 5 genes have differential expression which accorded with the predicting outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: This study developed a new molecular signature based on TILs marker genes, which is very effective in predicting OS prognosis and immunotherapy response.
There is a need to identify potentially useful biomarker(s) for the prediction of prognostic outcomes in patients diagnosed with gastric cancer. This meta-analysis provided updated evidence on the association of controlling nutritional status (CONUT) score with survival and other clinicopathological outcomes in patients with gastric cancer. PubMed and Scopus databases were systematically searched. The review included studies, observational in design, that were conducted among patients with gastric cancer and had documented the association of CONUT score with outcomes of interest. The primary outcomes of interest were overall survival (OS), cancer-specific survival (CSS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) along with tumour size and extent (T status), nodal status (N status) and tumour staging (TNM staging). STATA was used for statistical analysis. The meta-analysis was conducted with 17 studies. The 5-year OS [hazard ratio (HR), 1.75; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.55, 1.96], RFS (HR, 1.58; 95% CI: 1.30, 1.91) and CSS (HR, 1.89; 95% CI: 1.01, 3.52) were comparatively poorer in the high CONUT group, than in low CONUT group. High CONUT score was associated with increased risk of having T3/T4 tumour [odds ratio (OR), 1.64; 95% CI: 1.16, 2.34], N2/N3 nodal status (OR, 1.44; 95% CI: 1.17, 1.77) and stage III/IV tumour (OR, 1.64; 95% CI: 1.43, 1.88). The risk of microvascular invasion (OR, 1.46; 95% CI: 1.20, 1.77) and post-operative complications (OR, 1.64; 95% CI: 1.31, 2.06) was higher in those with high CONUT. There were no differences in the risk of poorly differentiated tumour and need for adjuvant chemotherapy between the two groups. Findings suggested that preoperative assessment of CONUT score may be included in the routine assessment of patients with gastric cancer due to its association with survival and other clinical as well as pathological outcomes.
Immunotherapy is a powerful technique where immune cells are modified to improve cytotoxicity against cancerous cells to treat cancers that do not respond to surgery, chemotherapy, or radiotherapy. Expressing chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) in immune cells, typically T lymphocytes, is a practical modification that drives an immune response against cancerous tissue. CAR-T efficacy is suboptimal in solid tumors due to the tumor microenvironment (TME) that limits T lymphocyte cytotoxicity. In this study, we demonstrate that neutrophils differentiated from human pluripotent stem cells modified with AAVS1-inserted CAR constructs showed a robust cytotoxic effect against prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) expressing LNCaP cells as a model for prostate cancer in vitro. Our results suggest that engineered CAR can significantly enhance the neutrophil anti-tumor effect, providing a new avenue in treating prostate cancers.
Tumor microparticles (T-MPs) are considered as a tumor vaccine candidate. Although some studies have analyzed the mechanism of T-MPs as tumor vaccine, we still lack understanding of how T-MPs stimulate a strong anti-tumor immune response. Here, we show that T-MPs induce macrophages to release a key chemotactic factor CCL2, which attracts monocytes to the vaccine injection site and enhances endocytosis of antigen. Monocytes subsequently enter the draining lymph node, and differentiate into monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs), which present tumor antigens to T lymphocytes and deliver a potent anti-tumor immune response. Mechanically, T-MPs activate the cGAS-STING signaling through DNA fragments, and then induce monocytes to upregulate the expression of IRF4, which is a key factor for monocyte differentiation into moDCs. More importantly, monocytes that have endocytosed T-MPs acquire the ability to treat tumors. Collectively, this work might provide novel vaccination strategy for the development of tumor vaccines and facilitate the application of T-MPs for clinic oncotherapy.SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12645-023-00190-x.
T cell responses are regulated by co-stimulatory and inhibitory receptors along with T cell receptor- and cytokine-mediated signals. CD51 is a transmembrane glycoprotein of the integrin family that plays a role in cell adhesion, migration, tumorigenesis, and other cellular functions. In this study, we aimed to investigate the expression and function of CD51 on CD8 T cells. Upon in vitro T cell activation, CD51 expression was delayed but subsequently was upregulated in CD8 T cells upon cell division. Furthermore, CD51 was highly expressed in exhausted CD8 T cells in chronic LCMV infection, B16F10 melanoma, and CT26 colon carcinoma, and its expression level increased as cells became more differentiated. Using CRISPR-mediated knockdown, we found that the absence of CD51 led to a lower number of virus-specific CD8 T cells upon chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection, although their granzyme B expression and cytokine production were maintained. Blocking CD51 also inhibited the in vitro proliferation of CD8 T cells. These results suggest that CD51 plays an important role in the early expansion of CD8 T cells and may have potential as an immunomodulatory target.
Biomodulina T (InmunyVital®) is a thymic factor that modulates immune response and inflammation. Biomodulina T stimulates the differentiation, maturation and proliferation of T cells. Additionally, Biomodulina T improves the ability of T cells to produce cytokines, therefore enhancing T lymphocyte function. Biomodulina T stimulates the thymus gland and, thus, promotes the recovery of normal thymus size in children with thymic hypoplasia and restores the functions of immunosenescent T cells in aging people. In 1984 Rodriguez Martin RR established the laboratory of Biomodulators, where he created and developed an immunomodulatory thymic factor that he named "Biomodulina T." The biological activity of Biomodulina T was demonstrated in several studies. An extensive series of preclinical toxicological studies were conducted and these studies demonstrated that Biomodulina T is an active and safe thymic factor. Clinical trials were conducted with Biomodulina T in patients with immunodeficiency and infections, autoimmune diseases, older adults with recurrent respiratory infections, and cancer. In 1994, we obtained the approval of Biomodulina T as an immunomodulatory drug. This article identifies the milestones involved in the development of Biomodulina T. Since its discovery more than 35 years ago, reports show that Biomodulina T is a modulator of immune response and inflammation that is very useful for restoring the immune system in young and elderly people with immunodeficiencies, autoimmune diseases, and infections. Biomodulina T is also useful as an immunotherapeutic agent for improving immune responses in cancer and vaccines, for reversing immunosenescence and for improving healthspan in aging.
Myocardial infarction (MI) accelerates immune ageing characterised by lymphopenia, expansion of terminally differentiated CD8+ T-lymphocytes (CD8+ TEMRA) and inflammation. Pre-clinical data showed that TA-65, an oral telomerase activator, reduced immune ageing and inflammation after MI. We conducted a double blinded randomised controlled pilot trial evaluating the use of TA-65 to reduce immune cell ageing in patients following MI. Ninety MI patients aged over 65 years were randomised to either TA-65 (16 mg daily) or placebo for 12 months. Peripheral blood leucocytes were analysed by flow cytometry. The pre-defined primary endpoint was the proportion of CD8+ T-lymphocytes which were CD8+ TEMRA after 12 months. Secondary outcomes included high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels. Median age of participants was 71 years. Proportions of CD8+ TEMRA did not differ after 12 months between treatment groups. There was a significant increase in mean total lymphocyte count in the TA-65 group after 12 months (estimated treatment effect: + 285 cells/μl (95% CI: 117-452 cells/ μ l, p < 0.004), driven by significant increases from baseline in CD3+, CD4+, and CD8+ T-lymphocytes, B-lymphocytes and natural killer cells. No increase in lymphocyte populations was seen in the placebo group. At 12 months, hsCRP was 62% lower in the TA-65 group compared to placebo (1.1 vs. 2.9 mg/L). Patients in the TA-65 arm experienced significantly fewer adverse events (130 vs. 185, p = 0.002). TA-65 did not alter CD8+ TEMRA but increased all major lymphocyte subsets and reduced hsCRP in elderly patients with MI after 12 months.
Neurosarcoidosis presents a diagnostic challenge in clinical settings, as it has no pathognomonic symptoms or signs and a wide range of differential diagnoses. The aim of this report is to present the pathological features of our group of patients, obtained through a systematic diagnostic approach. This retrospective cohort study enrolled all adult patients primarily diagnosed with neurosarcoidosis at the neurology department of a tertiary center in Sweden over a period of 30 years, from 1990 to 2021. We identified 90 patients, 54 with possible neurosarcoidosis and 36 with probable neurosarcoidosis. CNS biopsy revealed an alternative diagnosis for 24 patients, who were then excluded. The collected data from medical records included demographic and clinical characteristics, systemic and/or neurological isolated involvement, various laboratory tests, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), serum analysis, imaging studies (MRI, FDG-PET/CT, and HRCT), nerve conduction studies, electromyography, and pathology reports of central nervous system (CNS), and extra-neural tissue biopsies. Sixty-six patients were included in our cohort. The median age at onset of symptoms was 49 years, with a similar sex distribution. Cranial neuropathies (38%), motor deficit (32%), headache (16%), and pituitary dysfunction (12%) were the most common presenting features. CSF studies were abnormal in 77% of the patients, who showed lymphocytosis (57%), elevated protein (44%), oligoclonal bands (40%), elevated ACE (28%), and raised T lymphocyte CD4+/CD8+ ratios (13%). Strikingly, MRI showed that 17% of the patients presented with isolated pituitary gland lesions. FDG-PET/CT was performed in 22 patients (33%) and confirmed systemic sarcoidosis in 11. Despite our extensive workup, the final classification for our patients only allowed for a definite diagnosis in 14 patients; the remainder were classified as probable (32) or possible (20) neurosarcoidosis. Since 2007, the employment of a structured laboratory and imaging approach and the increasing number of CNS biopsies have facilitated and improved the process of correct attribution in patients with presumptive neurosarcoidosis, especially in patients with isolated neurological lesions. We highlight a higher frequency of pituitary lesions due to neurosarcoidosis than has been classically described. A detailed laboratory diagnostic workup is included.
Limited data exist about the comparative immune cell population profile determined by cytometry by time-of-flight (CyTOF) analysis between active tuberculosis (TB) and latent TB infection (LTBI). In this study, we performed CyTOF analysis using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to compare the differential immune cellular profile between active TB and LTBI. A total of 51 subjects (active TB [n = 34] and LTBI [n = 17]) were included. CyTOF analysis of 16 subjects (active TB [n = 8] and LTBI [n = 8]) identified a significantly higher Th17-like cell population in active TB than in LTBI. This finding was validated in the remaining 35 subjects (active TB [n = 26] and LTBI [n = 9]) using flow cytometry analysis, which consistently reveals a higher percentage of Th17 cell population in active TB (p = 0.032). The Th1/Th17 ratio represented good ability to discriminate between active TB and LTBI (AUC = 0.812). Among patients with active TB, the Th17 cell percentage was found to be lower in more advanced forms of the disease. Additionally, Th17 cell percentage positively correlated with the levels of IL-6 and neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio, respectively. In conclusion, CyTOF analysis of PBMCs showed a significantly higher percentage of Th17 cells in active TB although fairly similar immune cell populations between active TB and LTBI were observed.
OBJECTIVES: The EasyCell assistant (Medica, Bedford, MA, USA) is one of the state-of-the-art digital morphology analyzers. We explored the performance of EasyCell assistant in comparison with manual microscopic review and Pentra DX Nexus (Horiba ABX Diagnostics, Montpellier, France).METHODS: In a total of 225 samples (100 normal and 125 abnormal samples), white blood cell (WBC) differentials and platelet (PLT) count estimation by EasyCell assistant were compared with the results by manual microscopic review and Pentra DX Nexus. The manual microscopic review was performed according to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute guidelines (H20-A2).RESULTS: WBC differentials between pre-classification by EasyCell assistant and manual counting showed moderate correlations for neutrophils (r=0.58), lymphocytes (r=0.69), and eosinophils (r=0.51) in all samples. After user verification, they showed mostly high to very high correlations for neutrophils (r=0.74), lymphocytes (r=0.78), eosinophils (r=0.88), and other cells (r=0.91). PLT count by EasyCell assistant highly correlated with that by Pentra DX Nexus (r=0.82).CONCLUSIONS: The performance of EasyCell assistant for WBC differentials and PLT count seems to be acceptable even in abnormal samples with improvement after user verification. The EasyCell assistant, with its reliable performance on WBC differentials and PLT count, would help optimize the workflow of hematology laboratories with reduced workload of manual microscopic review.
Dendritic cell (DC) migration is crucial for mounting immune responses. Immature DCs (imDCs) reportedly sense infections, while mature DCs (mDCs) move quickly to lymph nodes to deliver antigens to T cells. However, their highly heterogeneous and complex innate motility remains elusive. Here, we used an unsupervised machine learning (ML) approach to analyze long-term, two-dimensional migration trajectories of Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GMCSF)-derived bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs). We discovered three migratory modes independent of the cell state: slow-diffusive (SD), slow-persistent (SP), and fast-persistent (FP). Remarkably, imDCs more frequently changed their modes, predominantly following a unicyclic SD→FP→SP→SD transition, whereas mDCs showed no transition directionality. We report that DC migration exhibits a history-dependent mode transition and maturation-dependent motility changes are emergent properties of the dynamic switching of the three migratory modes. Our ML-based investigation provides new insights into studying complex cellular migratory behavior.
BACKGROUND: Sepsis can result in acute lung injury (ALI). Studies have shown that pharmacological inhibition of ferroptosis can treat ALI. However, the regulatory mechanisms of ferroptosis in sepsis-induced ALI remain unclear.METHODS: Transcriptome sequencing was performed on lung tissue samples from 10 sepsis-induced mouse models of ALI and 10 control mice. After quality control measures, clean data were used to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the groups. The DEGs were then overlapped with ferroptosis-related genes (FRGs) to obtain ferroptosis-related DEGs (FR-DEGs). Subsequently, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (Lasso) and Support Vector Machine-Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE) were used to obtain key genes. In addition, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) was employed to explore the disease, function, and canonical pathways related to the key genes. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was used to investigate the functions of the key genes, and regulatory miRNAs of key genes were predicted using the NetworkAnalyst and StarBase databases. Finally, the expression of key genes was validated with the GSE165226 and GSE168796 datasets sourced from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).RESULTS: Thirty-three FR-DEGs were identified between 1843 DEGs and 259 FRGs. Three key genes, Ncf2, Steap3, and Gclc, were identified based on diagnostic models established by the two machine learning methods. They are mainly involved in infection, immunity, and apoptosis, including lymphatic system cell migration and lymphocyte and T cell responses. Additionally, the GSEA suggested that Ncf2 and Steap3 were similarly enriched in mRNA processing, response to peptides, and leukocyte differentiation. Furthermore, a key gene-miRNA network including 2 key genes (Steap3 and Gclc) and 122 miRNAs, and a gene-miRNA network with 1 key gene (Steap3) and 3 miRNAs were constructed using NetworkAnalyst and StarBase, respectively. Both databases predicted that mmu-miR-15a-5p was the target miRNA of Steap3. Finally, Ncf2 expression was validated using both datasets and qRT-PCR, and Steap3 was validated using GSE165226 and qRT-PCR.CONCLUSIONS: This study identified two FR-DEGs (Ncf2 and Steap3) associated with sepsis-induced ALI via transcriptome analyses, as well as their functional and metabolic pathways.
White blood cell (WBC) count profiles in anti-aquaporin-4 antibody-positive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (AQP4-NMOSD) and anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD) are still unknown. This study evaluated the total WBC count, differential WBC counts, monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratio (MLR), and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) in patients with these diseases within three months from an attack before acute treatment or relapse prevention and compared the profiles with those in matched volunteers or in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. AQP4-NMOSD patients (n = 13) had a higher neutrophil count (p = 0.0247), monocyte count (p = 0.0359), MLR (p = 0.0004), and NLR (p = 0.0037) and lower eosinophil (p = 0.0111) and basophil (p = 0.0283) counts than those of AQP4-NMOSD-matched volunteers (n = 65). Moreover, patients with MOGAD (n = 26) had a higher overall WBC count (p = 0.0001), neutrophil count (p < 0.0001), monocyte count (p = 0.0191), MLR (p = 0.0320), and NLR (p = 0.0002) than those of MOGAD-matched volunteers (n = 130). The three demyelinating diseases showed similar levels of the total and differential WBC counts; however, MOGAD and MS showed different structures in the hierarchical clustering and distributions on a two-dimensional canonical plot using differential WBC counts from the other three groups. WBC count profiles were similar in patients with MOGAD and MS but differed from profiles in matched volunteers or patients with AQP4-NMOSD.
T-follicular helper (TFH) markers are expressed in the microenvironnement of marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MZL), and in lymphomas arising from TFH-cells, sometimes making the differential diagnosis difficult. In the skin, the "TFH-spectrum" is poorly defined, going from primary cutaneous lymphoproliferative disorder with small/medium CD4+ T-cells (SMLPD) to cutaneous localizations of systemic angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (cAITL), and may pass through intermediate forms (primary cutaneous T-follicular helper derived lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PCTFHL,NOS)). We retrospectively analyzed 20 MZL, 13 SMLPD, 5 PCTFHL, and 11 cAITL clinically, histologically, and molecularly, to define tools to differentiate them. Characteristics that might favor the diagnosis of MZL over SMLPD are: multiple skin nodules (p < 0.001), nodular architecture (p < 0.01), residual germinal centers with follicular dendritic cell network (p < 0.001), monotypic plasma cells (p < 0.001), and few staining with PD1 (p = 0.016) or CXCL13 (p = 0.03). PCTFHL and cAITL presented as multiple (p < 0.01) lesions, in older patients (p < 0.01), with systemic symptoms and/or biological alterations (p < 0.01). Immunophenotypic loss of T-cell markers (p < 0.001), BCL6 (p = 0.023) and/or CD10 staining (p = 0.08), and a higher proliferative index (≥ 30%, p = 0.039) favoured these diagnoses over SMLPD. Pathogenic variants were observed by genomic sequencing in 47% of MZL (TNFAIP3 (32%), EP300 (21%), NOTCH2 (16%), KMT2D (16%), CARD11 (10.5%)), 8% of SMLPD (TET2), 40% of PCTFHL (SOCS1 (20%), ARID1A (20%)) and 64% of cAITL (TET2 (63.6%), RHOA (36.4%), NOTCH1 (9%)). This study characterizes the various clinical and histological features between cutaneous lymphomas expressing TFH markers and highlights the value of the interest of screening for genomic mutations in difficult cases.
BACKGROUND: The response to vaccination against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) varies depending on comorbidities. This study evaluated the clinical and immunological factors affecting the humoral response of patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) to the BNT162b2 vaccine.METHODS: Humoral immunity was evaluated in 54 ESRD patients using serum levels of anti-receptor-binding domain (RBD) and neutralizing antibodies (NAbs), measured by a chemiluminescent immunoassay 30 (T1), 60 (T2), and 120 (T3) days after the second vaccine dose. The results were correlated to baseline patient T- and B-lymphocyte subpopulations determined by flow cytometry.RESULTS: The proportion of seroconverted patients based on the NAb titer decreased from 83.3% at T1 to 53.7% at T3. Age was negatively correlated to the NAb titer at T1 and T2. Patients receiving hemodiafiltration had higher NAb titers at T3. Diabetes was associated with a lower response rate at T3. Univariate analysis revealed a positive correlation between the naïve CD4 T-lymphocyte population and RBD titer at T1 and the NAb titer at T3, with no association observed with naïve CD8 T lymphocytes. NAb titers at T3 were significantly correlated with late-differentiated CD4 T lymphocytes and terminally differentiated effector memory cells re-expressing CD45RA (TEMRA) CD8 T lymphocytes. RBD levels were positively correlated with naïve and memory B-lymphocyte counts at T3.CONCLUSIONS: Age, diabetes, and hemodialysis prescription had significant impacts on the response to vaccination. T- and B-lymphocyte phenotypes are major determinants of the humoral response potency to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination with BNT162b2 in patients with ESRD.
Allergic rhinitis (AR), caused by immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated inflammation, generally occurs in the upper respiratory tract. T helper type 2 (Th2) cell-mediated cytokines, including interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, and IL-13, are important factors in AR pathogenesis. Despite various treatment options, the difficulty in alleviating AR and pharmacological side effects necessitate development of new therapies. The root of Pulsatilla koreana Nakai (P. koreana), a pasque flower, has been used as a herbal medicine. However, its effects on AR remain unclear; therefore, we aimed to explore this subject in the current study. The therapeutic effects of P. koreana water extract (PKN) on the pathophysiological functions of the nasal mucosa was examined in ovalbumin (OVA)-induced AR mice. The effect of PKN on Th2 activation and differentiation was evaluated using concanavalin A-induced splenocytes and differentiated Th2 cells from naïve CD4+ T cells. We also investigated the effect of changes in JAK/STAT6/GATA3 signaling on IL-4-induced Th2 cells. In OVA-induced AR mice, PKN administration alleviated allergic nasal symptoms and decreased the total number of immune cells, lymphocytes, neutrophils, and eosinophils in nasal lavage fluid; serum levels of OVA-specific IgE, histamine, and IL-13 were also significantly reduced. PKN also ameliorated OVA-induced nasal mucosal tissue thickening by inhibiting inflammation and goblet cell hyperplasia. PKN treatment significantly inhibited Th2 activity and differentiation through the IL-4/STAT-6/GATA3 pathway in Th2 cells. PKN is an effective AR treatment with the potential to improve patients' daily lives by regulating the allergic inflammatory response induced by Th2 cells.
The αβ and γδ T cell lineages both differentiate in the thymus from common uncommitted progenitors. The earliest stage of T cell development is known as CD4-CD8- double negative 1 (DN1), which has previously been shown to be a heterogenous mixture of cells. Of these, only the CD117+ fraction has been proposed to be true T cell progenitors that progress to the DN2 and DN3 thymocyte stages, at which point the development of the αβ and γδ T cell lineages diverge. However, recently, it has been shown that at least some γδ T cells may be derived from a subset of CD117- DN thymocytes. Along with other ambiguities, this suggests that T cell development may not be as straightforward as previously thought. To better understand early T cell development, particularly the heterogeneity of DN1 thymocytes, we performed a single cell RNA sequence (scRNAseq) of mouse DN and γδ thymocytes and show that the various DN stages indeed comprise a transcriptionally diverse subpopulations of cells. We also show that multiple subpopulations of DN1 thymocytes exhibit preferential development towards the γδ lineage. Furthermore, specific γδ-primed DN1 subpopulations preferentially develop into IL-17 or IFNγ-producing γδ T cells. We show that DN1 subpopulations that only give rise to IL-17-producing γδ T cells already express many of the transcription factors associated with type 17 immune cell responses, while the DN1 subpopulations that can give rise to IFNγ-producing γδ T cell already express transcription factors associated with type 1 immune cell responses.
OBJECTIVES: The exhausted CD8+T (Tex) cells are a unique cell population of activated T cells that emerges in response to persistent viral infection or tumor antigens. Tex cells showed the characteristics of aging cells, including weakened self-renewal ability, effector function inhibition, sustained high expression of inhibitory receptors including PD-1, TIGIT, TIM-3, and LAG-3, and always accompanied by metabolic and epigenetic reprogramming. Tex cells are getting more and more attention in researching immune-related diseases and tumor immunotherapy. However, studies on Tex-related models for tumor prognosis are still lacking. We hope to establish a risk model based on Tex-related genes for HCC prognosis.METHODS: Tex-related GEO datasets from different pathologic factors (chronic HBV, chronic HCV, and telomere shortening) were analyzed respectively to acquire differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by the 'limma' package of R. Genes with at least one intersection were incorporated into Tex-related gene set. GO, KEGG, and GSEA enrichment analyses were produced. Hub genes and the PPI network were established and visualized by the STRING website and Cytoscape software. Transcription factors and targeting small molecules were predicted by the TRUST and CLUE websites. The Tex-related HCC prognostic model was built by Cox regression and verified based on different datasets. Tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion (TIDE) and SubMap algorithms tested immunotherapy sensitivity. Finally, qRT-PCR and Flow Cytometry was used to confirm the bioinformatic results.RESULTS: Hub genes such as AKT1, CDC6, TNF and their upstream transcription factor ILF3, Regulatory factor X-associated protein, STAT3, JUN, and RELA/NFKB1 were identified as potential motivators for Tex. Tex-related genes SLC16A11, CACYBP, HSF2, and ATG10 built the HCC prognostic model and helped with Immunotherapy sensitivity prediction.CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that Tex-related genes might provide accurate prediction for HCC patients in clinical decision-making, prognostic assessment, and immunotherapy. In addition, targeting the hub genes or transcription factors may help to reverse T cell function and enhance the effect of tumor immunotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Every bout of exercise mobilizes and redistributes large numbers of effector lymphocytes with a cytotoxic and tissue migration phenotype. The frequent redistribution of these cells is purported to increase immune surveillance and play a mechanistic role in reducing cancer risk and slowing tumor progression in physically active cancer survivors. Our aim was to provide the first detailed single cell transcriptomic analysis of exercise-mobilized lymphocytes and test their effectiveness as a donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) in xenogeneic mice engrafted with human leukemia.METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were collected from healthy volunteers at rest and at the end of an acute bout of cycling exercise. Flow cytometry and single-cell RNA sequencing was performed to identify phenotypic and transcriptomic differences between resting and exercise-mobilized cells using a targeted gene expression panel curated for human immunology. PBMCs were injected into the tail vein of xenogeneic NSG-IL-15 mice and subsequently challenged with a luciferase tagged chronic myelogenous leukemia cell line (K562). Tumor growth (bioluminescence) and xenogeneic graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) were monitored bi-weekly for 40-days.RESULTS: Exercise preferentially mobilized NK-cell, CD8+ T-cell and monocyte subtypes with a differentiated and effector phenotype, without significantly mobilizing CD4+ regulatory T-cells. Mobilized effector lymphocytes, particularly effector-memory CD8+ T-cells and NK-cells, displayed differentially expressed genes and enriched gene sets associated with anti-tumor activity, including cytotoxicity, migration/chemotaxis, antigen binding, cytokine responsiveness and alloreactivity (e.g. graft-versus-host/leukemia). Mice receiving exercise-mobilized PBMCs had lower tumor burden and higher overall survival (4.14E+08 photons/s and 47%, respectively) at day 40 compared to mice receiving resting PBMCs (12.1E+08 photons/s and 22%, respectively) from the same donors (p<0.05). Human immune cell engraftment was similar for resting and exercise-mobilized DLI. However, when compared to non-tumor bearing mice, K562 increased the expansion of NK-cell and CD3+/CD4-/CD8- T-cells in mice receiving exercise-mobilized but not resting lymphocytes, 1-2 weeks after DLI. No differences in GvHD or GvHD-free survival was observed between groups either with or without K562 challenge.CONCLUSION: Exercise in humans mobilizes effector lymphocytes with an anti-tumor transcriptomic profile and their use as DLI extends survival and enhances the graft-versus-leukemia (GvL) effect without exacerbating GvHD in human leukemia bearing xenogeneic mice. Exercise may serve as an effective and economical adjuvant to increase the GvL effects of allogeneic cell therapies without intensifying GvHD.
BACKGROUND: Liver cancer is the sixth most common cancer worldwide and the third leading cause of cancer-related death. As a chronic liver disease, many studies have shown that the immune response plays a key role in the progression of liver cancer. Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is one of the high-risk factors for HCC, accounting for 50%-80% of HCC cases worldwide, and little is known about the immune status of HBV associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HBV-HCC), therefore, we aimed to explore the changes in peripheral immunity in patients with HBV-HCC.METHODS: In this study, patients with HBV-HCC (n=26), patients with hepatitis B-related cirrhosis (HBV-LC) (n=31) and healthy volunteers (n=49) were included. The lymphocytes and their subpopulation phenotypes in peripheral blood were characterized. In addition, we explored the effect of viral replication on peripheral immunity in patients with HCC and analyzed the circulating immunophenotypic characteristics at different stages of HCC with flow cytometry.RESULTS: Firstly, our results showed that the percentages of total αβ T cells in the peripheral blood of HBV-HCC patients was significantly decreased compared to healthy subjects. Secondly, we found that naïve CD4+ T cells in HBV-HCC patients were significantly reduced, terminally differentiated CD8+ T cells, homing memory CD8+ T cells and Th2 cells were increased in peripheral circulation in HBV-HCC patients. Moreover, in the peripheral blood of HBV-HCC patients, expression of TIGIT on CD4+ T cells and PD-1 on the surface of Vδ 1 T cells was increased. In addition, we found that sustained viral replication resulted in up-regulation of TIM3 expression on CD4+ T cells, and TIM3+ γδ T cells increased in peripheral circulation in patients with advanced HBV-HCC.CONCLUSION: Our study showed that circulating lymphocytes in HBV-HCC patients exhibited features of immune exhaustion, especially in HCC patients with persistent viral replication and in patients with intermediate and advanced HBV-HCC, including decreased frequency of T cells and elevated expression of inhibitory receptors including TIGIT and TIM3 on CD4+ T cells and γδ T cells. Meanwhile, our research suggests that the combination of CD3+ T cell and CD8+HLADR+CD38+ T cell may be a potential diagnostic indicator for HBV-HCC. These findings could help us to better understand the immune characteristics of HBV-HCC and explore the immune mechanisms and immunotherapy strategies for HBV-HCC.
Loss of function of inhibitory immune checkpoints, unleashing pathogenic immune responses, is a potential risk factor for autoimmune disease. Here, we report that patients with the autoimmune vasculitis giant cell arteritis (GCA) have a defective CD155-CD96 immune checkpoint. Macrophages from patients with GCA retain the checkpoint ligand CD155 in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and fail to bring it to the cell surface. CD155low antigen-presenting cells induce expansion of CD4+CD96+ T cells, which become tissue invasive, accumulate in the blood vessel wall, and release the effector cytokine interleukin-9 (IL-9). In a humanized mouse model of GCA, recombinant human IL-9 causes vessel wall destruction, whereas anti-IL-9 antibodies efficiently suppress innate and adaptive immunity in the vasculitic lesions. Thus, defective surface translocation of CD155 creates antigen-presenting cells that deviate T cell differentiation toward Th9 lineage commitment and results in the expansion of vasculitogenic effector T cells.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are being used in clinical trials given their proliferative potential, immunomodulatory effects, and their pro-angiogenic, anti-apoptotic, and anti-fibrotic properties. Umbilical cord tissue is an excellent source of MSCs. Iron-fortified calf serum is being used to culture MSCs as an alternative to fetal bovine serum since it is relatively inexpensive. Fetal calf serum is fortified with iron since calves are often fed a low-iron diet. However, the use of iron-fortified calf serum is still problematic since it is xenogeneic. Lately, human platelet lysate is being used for the culture of human cells. To increase its shelf life, human platelet lysate was lyophilized and used for culturing human umbilical cord tissue mesenchymal stem cells (hUCT-MSCs). This study compares the culture of hUCT-MSCs with either iron-fortified calf serum or lyophilized human platelet lysate (LHPL). Trilineage differentiation potential (for chondrogenesis, adipogenesis, or osteogenesis) was assessed and immunomodulatory properties of hUCT-MSC were studied using the Mixed Lymphocyte Reaction (MLR) to detect inhibition of the proliferation of lymphocytes. This study concludes the potency of LHPL as the best alternative to Iron-Fortified Calf Serum (IFCS) for culture expansion of hUCT-MSC. hUCT-MSC cultured with LHPL display characteristic surface markers and have the capacity for trilineage differentiation.
Cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes (CTL) eliminate infected cells or transformed tumor cells by releasing perforin-containing cytotoxic granules at the immunological synapse. The secretion of such granules depends on Ca2+-influx through store operated Ca2+ channels, formed by STIM (stromal interaction molecule)-activated Orai proteins. Whereas molecular mechanisms of the secretion machinery are well understood, much less is known about the molecular machinery that regulates the efficiency of Ca2+-dependent target cell killing. CTL killing efficiency is of high interest considering the number of studies on CD8+ T lymphocytes modified for clinical use. Here, we isolated total RNA from primary human cells: natural killer (NK) cells, non-stimulated CD8+ T-cells, and from Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxin A (SEA) stimulated CD8+ T-cells (SEA-CTL) and conducted whole genome expression profiling by microarray experiments. Based on differential expression analysis of the transcriptome data and analysis of master regulator genes, we identified 31 candidates which potentially regulate Ca2+-homeostasis in CTL. To investigate a putative function of these candidates in CTL cytotoxicity, we transfected either SEA-stimulated CTL (SEA-CTL) or antigen specific CD8+ T-cell clones (CTL-MART-1) with siRNAs specific against the identified candidates and analyzed the killing capacity using a real-time killing assay. In addition, we complemented the analysis by studying the effect of inhibitory substances acting on the candidate proteins if available. Finally, to unmask their involvement in Ca2+ dependent cytotoxicity, candidates were also analyzed under Ca2+-limiting conditions. Overall, we identified four hits, CCR5 (C-C chemokine receptor type five), KCNN4 (potassium calcium-activated channel subfamily N), RCAN3 (regulator of calcineurin) and BCL (B-cell lymphoma) 2 which clearly affect the efficiency of Ca2+ dependent cytotoxicity in CTL-MART-1 cells, CCR5, BCL2, and KCNN4 in a positive manner, and RCAN3 in a negative way.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are antigen-presenting cells that drive the differentiation of T CD4+ cells into different profiles according to the nature of the antigen or immunomodulator. Propolis is a resinous product made by bees that has numerous pharmacological properties, including an immunomodulatory action. To assess whether propolis can modulate the activation of CD4+ T cells by stimulating DCs with heat-labile enterotoxin B subunit (EtxB) or lipopolysaccharide (LPS), we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms affected by propolis in the differential activation of T lymphocytes. Cell viability, lymphocyte proliferation, gene expression (GATA-3 and RORc), and cytokine production (interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-17A) were analyzed. Propolis, EtxB, and LPS induced a higher lymphoproliferation compared with the control. Propolis induced GATA-3 expression and, in combination with EtxB, maintained the baseline levels. Propolis alone or in combination with LPS inhibited RORc expression. EtxB alone and in combination with propolis increased IL-4 production. Propolis in combination with LPS prevented LPS-induced IL-17A production. These results opened perspectives for the study of biological events that may be favored by propolis by promoting Th2 activation or helping in the treatment of inflammatory conditions mediated by Th17 cells.
Ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is one of the major causes of acute kidney injury (AKI), and experimental work has revealed detailed insight into the inflammatory response in the kidney. T cells and NFκB pathway play an important role in IRI. Therefore, we examined the regulatory role and mechanisms of IkappaB kinase 1 (IKK1) in CD4+T lymphocytes in an experimental model of IRI. IRI was induced in CD4cre and CD4IKK1Δ mice. Compared to control mice, conditional deficiency of IKK1 in CD4+T lymphocyte significantly decreased serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level, and renal tubular injury score. Mechanistically, lack in IKK1 in CD4+T lymphocytes reduced the ability of CD4 lymphocytes to differentiate into Th1/Th17 cells. Similar to IKK1 gene ablation, pharmacological inhibition of IKK also protected mice from IRI. Together, lymphocyte IKK1 plays a pivotal role in IRI by promoting T cells differentiation into Th1/Th17 and targeting lymphocyte IKK1 may be a novel therapeutic strategy for IRI.
Pseudolymphoma (PSL) of the orbit is a benign lymphoid hyperplasia (LH). It is a rare disease with an extensive range of known causative agents. LH is further classified into "reactive" (RLH) and "atypical" (ALH) types. It clinically presents as a single or a few plaques and/or nodular lesions, particularly on the head, neck, and upper trunk. It must be differentiated from orbital malignant lymphoma. In this report, we present a case of a 58-year-old Pakistani female with an asymptomatic recurrent right periorbital swelling for three years. It was clinically diagnosed as an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-induced angioedema as it responded to stopping the ACE inhibitor; however, after four months, the patient again started to develop right periorbital swelling. An incisional biopsy revealed perivascular and periadnexal infiltration of lymphocytes, plasma cells, and a few neutrophils along with pigmentary incontinence. The formation of multiple lymphoid follicles and infiltration by monomorphic lymphoid cells in deeper skeletal muscle fibers were also observed. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) showed polyclonality and low Ki-67 labeling (20%), corresponding to periorbital RLH. Our objective in this study is to highlight the importance of considering PSL as a differential diagnosis in periorbital swelling. We also suggest that recurrent angioedema may lead to PSL.
Cluster of differentiation (CD) antigens are cell surface molecules expressed on leukocytes and other cells associated with the immune system. Antibodies that react with CD antigens are known to be one of the most essential tools for identifying leukocyte subpopulations. T lymphocytes, as an important population of leukocytes, play essential roles in the adaptive immune system. Many of the CD antigens expressed on T lymphocytes are used as surface markers for T lymphocyte classification, including CD3, CD4 and CD8 molecules. In this review, we summarize the recent advances in the identification of CD molecules on T lymphocytes in teleosts, with emphasis on the functions of CD markers in the classification of T lymphocyte subsets. We notice that genes encoding CD3, co-receptors CD4 and CD8 have been cloned in several fish species and antibodies have been developed to study protein expression in morphological and functional contexts. T lymphocytes can be divided into CD4+ and CD8+ cells discriminated by the expression of CD4 and CD8 molecules in teleost, which are functionally similar to mammalian helper T cells (Th) and cytotoxic T cells (Tc), respectively. Further studies are still needed on the particular characteristics of teleost T cell repertoires and adaptive responses, and results will facilitate the health management and development of vaccines for fish.
BACKGROUND: Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma (IVLBCL) is the proliferation of neoplastic B lymphocytes in the vascular space. Since conventional computed tomography (CT) shows nonspecific findings, differentiation between IVLBCL and other lung diseases, such as diffuse interstitial lung disease, is difficult.CASE PRESENTATION: A 73-year-old man presented with dyspnea and hypoxemia. Laboratory findings showed an increased lactate dehydrogenase level of 1690 U/L (normal: 130-235 U/L) and soluble interleukin-2 receptor level of 1140 U/mL (normal: 157-474U/mL). Dual-energy CT iodine mapping showed a significant symmetrical decrease in iodine distribution in the upper lungs, suggesting an unusual distribution of pulmonary hypoperfusion. Therefore, IVLBCL was suspected. A random skin biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of IVLBCL. Due to the severity of the disease, lung biopsy was averted. After admission to the hospital, high-dose methotrexate was administered for central nervous system involvement, due to findings of suspected intracranial infiltration on a brain magnetic resonance imaging and elevated cell counts on lumbar puncture. Subsequently, oxygen demand improved, and rituximab along with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone was added to the patient's regime. Eventually, oxygen administration was terminated, the patient's general condition improved, and the patient was discharged after 47 days of hospitalization.CONCLUSIONS: Since the diagnosis of IVLBCL depends on whether it is possible to suspect IVLBCL, the finding of decreased iodine perfusion demonstrated on dual-energy CT is considered important information for diagnosis. An immediate diagnosis of IVLBCL is needed to avoid rapid disease progression and introduce early treatment for a favorable prognosis. In this case, unique pulmonary hypoperfusion demonstrated by dual-energy CT promoted early diagnosis of IVLBCL.
Tissue resident memory (Trm) CD8 T cells infiltrating tumors represent an enriched population of tumor antigen-specific T cells, and their presence is associated with improved outcomes in patients. Using genetically engineered mouse pancreatic tumor models we demonstrate that tumor implantation generates a Trm niche that is dependent on direct antigen presentation by cancer cells. However, we observe that initial CCR7-mediated localization of CD8 T cells to tumor draining lymph nodes is required to subsequently generate CD103+ CD8 T cells in tumors. We observe that the formation of CD103+ CD8 T cells in tumors is dependent on CD40L but independent of CD4 T cells, and using mixed chimeras we show that CD8 T cells can provide their own CD40L to permit CD103+ CD8 T cell differentiation. Finally, we show that CD40L is required to provide systemic protection against secondary tumors. These data suggest that CD103+ CD8 T cell formation in tumors can occur independent of the two-factor authentication provided by CD4 T cells and highlight CD103+ CD8 T cells as a distinct differentiation decision from CD4-dependent central memory.
BACKGROUND: Tertiary lymphoid structure (TLS) is an organized infiltration of immune cells, showing features of germinal center (GC) commonly seen in secondary lymphoid organs. However, its relationship with tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs) has not been studied and we hypothesized that TDLN may influence maturation of intratumoral TLS in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).METHODS: Tissue slides of 616 patients that had undergone surgeries were examined. Cox proportional hazard regression model was used to assess risk factors of patients' survival, and logistic regression model was used for their relationship with TLS. Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to explore transcriptomic features of TDLNs. Immunohistochemistry, multiplex immunofluorescence and flow cytometry were performed to analyze cellular composition. Cellular components of NSCLC samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas database were inferred with Microenvironment Cell Populations-counter (MCP-counter) method. Murine NSCLC models were used to dissect underlying mechanisms for relationship between TDLN and TLS maturation.RESULTS: While GC+ TLS was associated with better prognosis, GC- TLS was not. TDLN metastasis reduced the prognostic relevance of TLS, and was associated with less GC formation. Primary tumor sites showed reduced B cell infiltration in TDLN-positive patients, and scRNA-seq revealed diminished memory B cell formation in tumor-invaded TDLNs, together with an emphasis on weakened interferon (IFN)-γ response. Murine NSCLC models revealed that IFN-γ signaling is involved in memory B cell differentiation in TDLNs and GC formation in primary tumors.CONCLUSIONS: Our research emphasizes the influence of TDLN on intratumoral TLS maturation and suggests a role of memory B cells and IFN-γ signaling in this communication.
OBJECTIVES: MCL-1 and PD-L1 proteins are related to carcinogenesis mechanisms in differentiated thyroid carcinoma(DTC). Tumor antigens stimulate the expression of PD-1 in immune cells, which binds to PD-L1 of tumor cells, inducing immune escape from the tumor. MCL-1, an anti-apoptotic member of the BCL-2 family, is necessary for the survival of T and B lymphocytes and has a high oncogenic potential. We aim to evaluate the clinical utility and relevance of MCL-1 and PD-L1 in the long-term prognosis of DTC.METHODS: 120 DTC patients after total thyroidectomy and radioiodine therapy followed for a minimum of 2 years were included. Demographic features, tumor histopathology, persistence/recurrence risk, factors associated with outcome, initial response to therapy, persistence or disease-free at the follow-up were related to MCL-1 and PD-L1 immunohistochemical expression and BRAFV600E mutation.RESULTS: 100(83.3%) were women, 46.64 ± 16.73 years old at diagnosis; 37(30.8%) patients were at high, 45(37.5%) of intermediate and 38(31.7%) of low disease recurrence/persistence risk. At the end of follow-up of 124.86 ± 65.36 months, 48(42.5%) had persistent disease. 103(85.8%) patients had papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), 17(14.2%) follicular thyroid carcinoma (FTC). In PTC, moderate/strong PD-L1 and MCL-1 expressions were associated to BRAFV600E (p=0.0467; p=0.0044). PD-L1 was also associated with tall cell subtype (p=0.0274). In FTC, weak PD-L1 expression was associated to the largest nodule diameter (p=0.0100). Strong/moderate PD-L1 expression was associated to T2 and the weak expression with T3 in TNM classification (p=0.0490). Moderate MCL-1 expression was associated to smoking (p=0.0350).CONCLUSIONS: PDL-1, marker of progression of tumor cells and MCL-1, anti-apoptotic marker, were associated with PTC carrying BRAFV600E mutation, while PDL-1 was associated with more aggressive PTC subtype. MCL-1 and PD-L1 could be useful in composing a panel to assess the prognosis of PTC patients. On the other hand, both markers seemed to have lower relevance to FTC patients.
Microgravity (μg) is among the major stressors in space causing immune cell dysregulations. These are frequently expressed as increased pro-inflammatory states of monocytes and reduced activation capacities in T cells. Hypergravity (as artificial gravity) has shown to have beneficial effects on the musculoskeletal and cardiovascular system both as a countermeasure option for μg-related deconditioning and as "gravitational therapy" on Earth. Since the impact of hypergravity on immune cells is sparsely explored, we investigated if an application of "mild" mechanical loading of 2.8 g is able to avoid or treat μg-mediated immune dysregulations. For this, T cell and monocyte activation states and cytokine pattern were first analyzed after whole blood antigen incubation in simulated μg (s-μg) by using the principle of fast clinorotation or in hypergravity. Subsequent hypergravity countermeasure approaches were run at three different sequences: one preconditioning setting, where 2.8 g was applied before s-μg exposure and two therapeutic approaches in which 2.8 g was set either intermediately or at the end of s-μg. In single g-grade exposure experiments, monocyte pro-inflammatory state was enhanced in s-μg and reduced in hypergravity, whereas T cells displayed reduced activation when antigen incubation was performed in s-μg. Hypergravity application in all three sequences did not alleviate the increased pro-inflammatory potential of monocytes. However, in T cells the preconditioning approach restored antigen-induced CD69 expression and IFNγ secretion to 1 g control values and beyond. This in vitro study demonstrates a proof of concept that mild hypergravity is a gravitational preconditioning option to avoid adaptive immune cell dysfunctions induced by (s-)μg and that it may act as a booster of immune cell functions.
BACKGROUND: As the leading cause of mortality for retroperitoneal liposarcoma (RPLS) cases, postoperative recurrence has complicated and unclear risk factors. This study was conducted to explore the correlations between demographic, surgical, and pathological characteristics with local recurrence-free survival (LRFS) for surgical resected RPLS.METHODS: RPLS cases that underwent radical operation were considered to be included in this analysis. LRFS rates were estimated based on the Kaplan-Meier method and were compared between groups by the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazard regression models were constructed to identified the predictors of LRFS. Subsequently, the independent predictors acquired from multivariate analyses were used to construct a nomogram.RESULTS: 348 RPLS cases who underwent radical operation were included. Of the 348 cases, 333 had tumor recurrence or with a follow-up period ≥5 years. Thus, 296 (88.9%) of the 333 cases had recurrent disease, and the median LRFS duration of 296 recurrence cases was 17.0 (95% confidence interval (CI) 13.2-20.8) months. Multivariate analysis identified the preoperative neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR), surgical frequency, operative time, tumor shape, histological subtype, and tumor necrosis as independent predictors of LRFS. Based on above independent predictors, a nomogram was constructed to predict the 1-, 3-, and 5-year LRFS of surgical resected RPLS.CONCLUSION: Elevated preoperative NLR, ≥2nd time surgical frequency, extended operation time, irregular tumor shape, no well-differentiated histological subtype, and tumor necrosis could be used as predictors of LRFS for surgical resected RPLS.
OBJECTIVE: Autoimmune diseases (AD) account for a high percentage of the population. One of the most prevalent is autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT). However, the therapeutic effects of Buzhong Yiqi (BZYQ) decoction on AIT have not been studied yet. The majority of the present study was conducted on NOD.H-2h4 mice in an attempt to ascertain the therapeutic effects of BZYQ decoction on AIT.METHODS: The 0.05% sodium iodide water (NaI)-induced AIT mice model was established. A total of nine NOD.H-2h4 mice were randomly divided into three groups: the normal group provided with regular water, the model group drinking freely 0.05% NaI, and the treatment group treated with BZYQ decoction (9.56 g/kg) after NaI supplementation (NaI + BZYQ). BZYQ decoction was administered orally once daily for eight weeks. The thyroid histopathology test was used to measure the severity of lymphocytic infiltration. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to determine the levels of anti-thyroglobulin antibody (TgAb), interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and IL-17. The Illumina HiSeq X sequencing platform was utilized to analyze the thyroid tissue by mRNA expression profiles. Bioinformatics analysis was used to investigate the biological function of the differentially expressed mRNAs. In addition, the expression of Carbonyl Reductase 1 (CBR1), 6-Pyruvoyltetrahydropterin Synthase (PTS), Major Histocompatibility Complex, Class II (H2-EB1), Interleukin 23 Subunit Alpha (IL-23A), Interleukin 6 Receptor (IL-6RA), and Janus Kinase 1 (JAK1) was measured by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR).RESULTS: The treatment group exhibited significantly lower rates of thyroiditis and lymphocyte infiltration compared to the model group. Serum levels of TgAb, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-17 were significantly higher in the model group, but they fell dramatically after BZYQ decoction administration. According to our results, 495 genes showed differential expression in the model group compared to the control group. Six hundred twenty-five genes were significantly deregulated in the treatment group compared to the model group. Bioinformatic analysis showed that most mRNAs were associated with immune-inflammatory responses and were involved in multiple signaling pathways, including folate biosynthesis and the Th17 cell differentiation pathway. CBR1, PTS, H2-EB1, IL23A, IL-6RA and JAK1 mRNA participated in folate biosynthesis and the Th17 cell differentiation pathway. The qRT-PCR analysis confirmed that the above mRNAs were regulated in the model group compared to the treatment group Conclusion: The results of this investigation have revealed novel insights into the molecular mechanism of action of BZYQ decoction against AIT. The mechanism may be partially attributed to the regulation of mRNA expression and pathways.
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (AECOPD) has profound effects on disease progression and patients' quality of life. Emerging evidence suggests an association between alterations in the respiratory microbiome flora species and airway inflammation in patients with AECOPD. The present study aimed to describe the inflammatory cells and bacterial microbiome distributions in respiratory tract in Egyptian patients with AECOPD.SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The present cross-sectional study included 208 patients with AECOPD. Sputum and broncho-alveolar lavage samples from the studied patients were submitted to microbial cultures using appropriate media. Total and differential leukocytic counts and were done via automated cell counter.RESULTS: The present study included 208 AECOPD patients. They comprised 167 males (80.3%) and 41 females (19.7%) with an age of 57.9 ± 4.9 years. AECOPD was categorized as mild, moderate and severe in 30.8%, 43.3% and 26%, respectively. Sputum samples had significantly higher TLC, neutrophil percent and eosinophil percent when compared with BAL samples. In contrast, lymphocyte percent was significantly higher in BAL samples. Sputum specimens had significantly lower frequency of positive growths (70.2% versus 86.5%, p = 0.001). Among the identified organisms, sputum specimens had significantly lower frequency of Strept. pneumoniae (14.4% versus 30.3%, p = 0.001), Klebsiella pneumoniae (19.7% versus 31.7%, p = 0.024), Haemophilus influenzae (12.5% versus 26.9%, p = 0.011), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (2.9% versus 10%, p = 0.019) and Acinetobacter spp. (1.9% versus 7.2%, p = 0.012) growths when compared with BAL samples.CONCLUSION: The present study could identify a distinctive pattern of inflammatory cell distribution in sputum and BAL samples of AECOPD patients. The most commonly isolated organisms were Klebsiella pneumoniae and Strept. pneumoniae.
BACKGROUND: Approximately 10-20% of patients diagnosed with prostate cancer (PCa) evolve into castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), while nearly 90% of patients with metastatic CRPC (mCRPC) exhibit osseous metastases (BM). These BM are intimately correlated with the stability of the tumour microenvironment.PURPOSE: This study aspires to uncover the metabolism-related genes and the underlying mechanisms responsible for bone metastatic prostate cancer (BMPCa).METHODS: Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets of PCa and BM were analyzed through R Studio software to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The DEGs underwent functional enrichment via Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO), with key factors screened by a random forest utilized to establish a prognostic model for PCa. The study explored the relationship between DEGs and the stability of the immune microenvironment. The action and specificity of CRISP3 in PCa was validated through western blot analysis, CCK-8 assay, scratch assay, and cellular assay.RESULTS: The screening of GEO and TCGA datasets resulted in the identification of 199 co-differential genes. Three DEGs, including DES, HBB, and SLPI, were selected by random forest classification model and cox regression model. Immuno-infiltration analysis disclosed that a higher infiltration of naïve B cells and resting CD4 memory T cells occurred in the high-expression group of DES, whereas infiltration of resting M1 macrophages and NK cells was greater in the low-expression group of DES. A significant infiltration of neutrophils was observed in the high-expression group of HBB, while greater infiltration of gamma delta T cells and M1 macrophages was noted in the low-expression group of HBB. Resting dendritic cells, CD8 T cells, and resting T regulatory cells (Tregs) infiltrated significantly in the high-expression group of SLPI, while only resting mast cells infiltrated significantly in the low-expression group of SLPI. CRISP3 was established as a critical gene in BMPCa linked to DES expression. Targeting CRISP3, d-glucopyranose may impact tumour prognosis. During the mechanistic experiments, it was established that CRISP3 can advance the proliferation and metastatic potential of PCa by advancing epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT).CONCLUSION: By modulating lipid metabolism and maintaining immunological and microenvironmental balance, DES, HBB, and SLPI suppress prostate cancer cell growth. The presence of DES-associated CRISP3 is a harbinger of unfavorable outcomes in prostate cancer and may escalate tumor proliferation and metastatic capabilities by inducing epithelial-mesenchymal transition.
B lymphocytes play an important role in the regulation of immune response in both normal and pathological conditions. Traditionally, the main functions of B cells were considered to be antibody production and antigen presentation, but in recent decades there have been discovered several subpopulations of regulatory B lymphocytes (Bregs), which maintain immunological tolerance and prevent overactivation of the immune system. Memory (mBregs, CD19+CD24hiCD27+) and transitional (tBregs, CD19+CD24hiCD38hi) subpopulations of Bregs are usually considered in the context of studying the role of these B cells in various human pathologies. However, the mechanisms by which these Breg subpopulations exert their immunosuppressive activity remain poorly understood. In this work, we used bioinformatic analysis of open-source RNA sequencing data to propose potential mechanisms of B cell-mediated immunosuppression. Analysis of differential gene expression before and after activation of these subpopulations allowed us to identify six candidate molecules that may determine the functionality of mBregs and tBregs. IL4I1-, SIRPA-, and SLAMF7-dependent mechanisms of immunosuppression may be characteristic of both Breg subsets, while NID1-, CST7-, and ADORA2B-dependent mechanisms may be predominantly characteristic of tBregs. In-depth understanding of the molecular mechanisms of anti-inflammatory immune response of B lymphocytes is an important task for both basic science and applied medicine and could facilitate the development of new approaches to the therapy of complex diseases.
BACKGROUND: Preclinical studies have firmly established the CD47-signal-regulatory protein (SIRP)α axis as a myeloid immune checkpoint in cancer, and this is corroborated by available evidence from the first clinical studies with CD47 blockers. However, CD47 is ubiquitously expressed and mediates functional interactions with other ligands as well, and therefore targeting of the primarily myeloid cell-restricted inhibitory immunoreceptor SIRPα may represent a better strategy.METHOD: We generated BYON4228, a novel SIRPα-directed antibody. An extensive preclinical characterization was performed, including direct comparisons to previously reported anti-SIRPα antibodies.RESULTS: BYON4228 is an antibody directed against SIRPα that recognizes both allelic variants of SIRPα in the human population, thereby maximizing its potential clinical applicability. Notably, BYON4228 does not recognize the closely related T-cell expressed SIRPγ that mediates interactions with CD47 as well, which are known to be instrumental in T-cell extravasation and activation. BYON4228 binds to the N-terminal Ig-like domain of SIRPα and its epitope largely overlaps with the CD47-binding site. BYON4228 blocks binding of CD47 to SIRPα and inhibits signaling through the CD47-SIRPα axis. Functional studies show that BYON4228 potentiates macrophage-mediated and neutrophil-mediated killing of hematologic and solid cancer cells in vitro in the presence of a variety of tumor-targeting antibodies, including trastuzumab, rituximab, daratumumab and cetuximab. The silenced Fc region of BYON4228 precludes immune cell-mediated elimination of SIRPα-positive myeloid cells, implying anticipated preservation of myeloid immune effector cells in patients. The unique profile of BYON4228 clearly distinguishes it from previously reported antibodies representative of agents in clinical development, which either lack recognition of one of the two SIRPα polymorphic variants (HEFLB), or cross-react with SIRPγ and inhibit CD47-SIRPγ interactions (SIRPAB-11-K322A, 1H9), and/or have functional Fc regions thereby displaying myeloid cell depletion activity (SIRPAB-11-K322A). In vivo, BYON4228 increases the antitumor activity of rituximab in a B-cell Raji xenograft model in human SIRPαBIT transgenic mice. Finally, BYON4228 shows a favorable safety profile in cynomolgus monkeys.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, this defines BYON4228 as a preclinically highly differentiating pan-allelic SIRPα antibody without T-cell SIRPγ recognition that promotes the destruction of antibody-opsonized cancer cells. Clinical studies are planned to start in 2023.
CD8+ T cells play a central role in antitumor immune responses. Epigenetic gene regulation is essential to acquire the effector function of CD8+ T cells. However, the role of Utx, a demethylase of histone H3K27, in antitumor immunity remains unclear. In this study, we examined the roles of Utx in effector CD8+ T-cell differentiation and the antitumor immune response. In a murine tumor-bearing model, an increased tumor size and decreased survival rate were observed in T-cell-specific Utx KO (Utx KO) mice compared with wild-type (WT) mice. The number of CD8+ T cells in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) was significantly decreased in Utx KO mice. We found that the acquisition of effector function was delayed and attenuated in Utx KO CD8+ T cells. RNA sequencing revealed that the expression of effector signature genes was decreased in Utx KO effector CD8+ T cells, while the expression of naïve or memory signature genes was increased. Furthermore, the expression of Cxcr3, which is required for the migration of effector CD8+ T cells to tumor sites, was substantially decreased in Utx KO CD8+ T cells. These findings suggest that Utx promotes CD8+ T-cell-dependent antitumor immune responses partially through epigenetic regulation of the effector function.
Natural killer (NK) cell phenotype and function are altered in patients with prostate cancer, and increased NK cell activity is associated with a better prognosis in patients with disease. For patients with advanced stage prostate cancer, immunotherapies are a promising approach when standard treatment options have been exhausted. With the rapid emergence of NK cell-based therapies, it is important to understand the mechanisms by which NK cells can be triggered to kill cancer cells that have developed immune-evasive strategies. Altering the cytokine profiles of advanced prostate cancer cells may be an area to explore when considering ways in which NK cell activation can be modulated. We have previously demonstrated that combining the cytokine, IL-27, with TLR3 agonist, poly(I:C), changes cytokine secretion in the advanced prostate cancer models, PC3 and DU145 cells. Herein, we extend our previous work to study the effect of primary human NK cells on prostate cancer cell death in an in vitro co-culture model. Stimulating PC3 and DU145 cells with IL-27 and poly(I:C) induced IFN-β secretion, which was required for activation of primary human NK cells to kill these stimulated prostate cancer cells. PC3 cells were more sensitized to NK cell-mediated killing when compared to DU145 cells, which was attributed to differential levels of IFN-β produced in response to stimulation with IL-27 and poly(I:C). IFN-β increased granzyme B secretion and membrane-bound TRAIL expression by co-cultured NK cells. We further demonstrated that these NK cells killed PC3 cells in a partially TRAIL-dependent manner. This work provides mechanistic insight into how the cytotoxic function of NK cells can be improved to target cancer cells.
The T-lineage restricted protein THEMIS has been shown to play a critical role in T cell development. THEMIS, via its distinctive CABIT domains, inhibits the catalytic activity of the tyrosine phosphatase SHP1 (PTPN6). SHP1 and THEMIS bind to the ubiquitous cytosolic adapter GRB2, and the purported formation of a tri-molecular THEMIS-GRB2-SHP1 complex facilitates inactivation of SHP1 by THEMIS. The importance of this function of GRB2 among its numerous documented activities is unclear as GRB2 binds to multiple proteins and participates in several signaling responses in thymocytes. Here, we show that similar to Themis-/- thymocytes, the primary molecular defect in GRB2-deficient thymocytes is increased catalytically active SHP1 and the developmental block in GRB2-deficient thymocytes is alleviated by deletion or inhibition of SHP1 and is exacerbated by SHP1 overexpression. Thus, the principal role of GRB2 during T cell development is to promote THEMIS-mediated inactivation of SHP1 thereby enhancing the sensitivity of TCR signaling in CD4+CD8+ thymocytes to low affinity positively selecting self-ligands.
AIMS: Due to its rarity and non-specific clinical and pathological features, low-grade adenosquamous carcinoma (LGASC) of the breast continues to pose diagnostic challenges. Unlike other triple-negative breast carcinomas, LGASC tends to have an indolent clinical behaviour. It is essential to recognise this lesion for accurate diagnosis and appropriate management.METHODS AND RESULTS: Twenty-five cases of LGASC were identified in our archives and collaborating institutes. Cases of LGASC with dominant coexisting other type carcinomas were excluded. We studied the clinical presentation, morphological features, patterns of the commonly used immunohistochemical stains and follow-up. In our cohort, LGASC was commonly located at the outer aspect of the breast and associated with intraductal papilloma. The morphology of LGASC is characterised by infiltrating small glands and nests with variable squamous differentiation. We also found cuffing desmoplastic (fibrolamellar) stromal change in 75% of patients and peripheral lymphocytic aggregates in 87.5% of patients. P63 and smooth muscle myosin (SMM) were the most common myoepithelial markers used to assist in diagnosis. P63 often stained peripheral tumour cells surrounding invasive glands (circumferential staining in 80% of the cases), mimicking myoepithelial cells. It also stained the small nests with squamous differentiation. However, SMM was negative in 63% of the cases. The vast majority of our cases were triple-negative; only a few had focal and weak expressions of ER and PR. One patient who did not have excision developed lymph node metastasis. Most patients underwent excision or mastectomy with negative margins as surgical treatment; there were no recurrences or metastases in these patients with clinical follow-ups up to 108 months.CONCLUSIONS: LGASC has some unique, although not entirely specific, morphological features and immunohistochemical staining patterns. Fibrolamellar stromal change, peripheral lymphocytic aggregates and variable staining of p63 and SMM are valuable features to facilitate the diagnosis.
SUMMARY: Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome (APS) type 2 is characterized by the presence of Addison's disease (AD) along with autoimmune thyroid disease and/or type 1 diabetes. APS type 2 is known as Schmidt's syndrome when autoimmune adrenal insufficiency is associated with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. We report a very rare case of a 28-year-old female patient who had Schmidt's syndrome revealed by a thyroid storm (TS) concomitant with an acute adrenal crisis. The onset of AD resulted in a surgical emergency. The patient presented with cardiogenic shock and an acute abdomen. The precipitation factor was Hashitoxicosis presented as TS. This life-threatening condition was successfully reversed with aggressive medical therapy based on antithyroid drugs and intravenous glucocorticoids. This hyperthyroid phase lasted for a period of 8 months. The patient eventually developed hypothyroidism, suggesting that Hashimoto's thyroiditis was the most likely diagnosis. She was started on levothyroxine replacement therapy and remained euthyroid on levothyroxine. The case we describe had several diagnostic pitfalls that are discussed both at the start as well as during the evolution.LEARNING POINTS: Autoimmune diseases can appear concomitantly or succeed each other over time. The clinician must be vigilant to detect these diseases in time in order to avoid a misdiagnosis of a life-threatening emergency such as adrenal insufficiency or thyroid storm. Thyroid storm is an uncommon but life-threatening manifestation of hyperthyroidism. Diagnosis is dependent on clinical symptoms, and no specific laboratory tests are available. Glucocorticoids should be used in the treatment of thyroid storm because they have an inhibitory effect on peripheral conversion of T4 to T3. In patients who have severe thyrotoxicosis, especially in conjunction with hypotension, treatment with glucocorticoids has become standard practice because of the possibility of relative adrenal insufficiency or the possibility of undiagnosed Addison's disease. The differential diagnosis of hyperthyroidism can be challenging. Graves' disease can be discussed in view of the severity of the clinical presentation and the prolonged duration of the hyperthyroid phase. Hashitoxicosis is the initial hyperthyroid phase in chronic autoimmune thyroiditis. The hyperthyroid phase is always followed by definitive resolution, with persistent euthyroidism and no hyperthyroid relapses. Synthetic antithyroid drugs may be prescribed during the hyperthyroid phase of Hashimoto thyroiditis if the clinical presentation is severe and the duration of the hyperthyroid phase is prolonged.
Rationale: Pulmonary hypertension (PH) secondary to lung fibrosis belongs to WHO Group III, one of the most common subgroups of PH; however, it lacks effective treatment options. Cholinesterase inhibitor donepezil (DON) has been shown to effectively improve Group I PH. However, its effects on Group III PH are unknown. Methods: A lung fibrosis-induced PH mouse model was constructed using a single intratracheal instillation of bleomycin (BLM), after which DON was administered daily. Pulmonary artery and right ventricle (RV) remodeling were evaluated at the end of the study. Lung tissue in each group was analyzed using RNA sequencing, and the results were further verified with datasets from patients with PH. The mechanisms underlying DON-induced effects on PH were verified both in vivo and in vitro. Results: DON effectively improved pulmonary artery and RV remodeling in the BLM-induced mouse model. Transcriptomic profiles of lung tissue indicated that the expression of inflammatory and fibrotic genes was significantly changed in this process. In the animal model and patients with PH, T helper 17 lymphocytes (Th17) were the most common inflammatory cells infiltrating the lung tissue. DON significantly inhibited lung fibroblast activation; thus, preventing lung fibrosis and reducing the inflammatory response and Th17 cell infiltration in the BLM-induced lung tissue. In addition, Th17 cells could activate lung fibroblasts by secreting IL17A, and DON-mediated inhibition of Th17 cell differentiation was found to depend on the α7nAchR-JAK2-STAT3 pathway. Conclusion: DON can alleviate lung fibrosis and PH in an experimental mouse model. It inhibited pro-inflammatory Th17 cell differentiation, which is dependent on a cholinergic receptor pathway, thereby regulating fibroblast activation.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are critical for generating and maintaining peripheral tolerance. Treg-based immunotherapy is valuable for the clinical management of diseases resulting from dysregulation of immune tolerance. However, the lack of potency is a potential limitation of Treg therapy. In addition, CD69 positive-Treg (CD69+ Treg) represent a newly identified subset of Tregs with potent immune suppressive capability. Methods: Foxp3 YFP-Cre CD69 fl/fl and CD4 Cre CD69 fl/fl mice were generated to determine the relevance of CD69 to Treg. Chromatin Immunoprecipitation Assay (ChIP) and luciferase Assay were performed to detect the regulation of CD69 transcription by heat shock transcription factor 1(HSF1). Gene expression was measured by western blotting and qRT-PCR. The differentiation of naive T cells to CD69+Foxp3+ iTregs was determined by flow cytometry. The immunosuppressive ability of Tregs was analyzed by ELISA and flow cytometry. Colon inflammation in mice was reflected by changes in body weight and colon length, the disease activity index (DAI), and H&E staining of colon tissues. Results: Induced Tregs (iTregs) from CD4 Cre CD69 fl/fl mice failed to alleviate colitis. The transcription factor HSF1 interacted with the promoter of the CD69 gene to prompt its transcription during Treg differentiation. Genetic and chemical inhibition of HSF1 impaired CD69+ Treg differentiation and promoted the pathogenesis of colitis in mice. In contrast, HSF1 protein stabilized by inhibiting its proteasomal degradation promoted CD69+ Treg differentiation and alleviated colitis in mice. Moreover, adoptive transfer of iTregs with HSF1 stabilization by proteasome inhibitor (PSI) dramatically prevented the development of colitis in mice and was accompanied by decreased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and reduced accumulation of pro-inflammatory lymphocytes in colitis tissue, whereas Tregs induced in the absence of PSI were less stable and ineffective in suppressing colitis. Conclusions: HSF1 promotes CD69+ Tregs differentiation by activating the CD69 transcription, which is critical for the immunosuppressive function of Tregs. Stabilization of HSF1 by PSIs results in the efficient generation of Tregs with high potency to treat colitis and probably other autoimmune diseases involving Tregs deficiency.
BACKGROUND: Cluster of differentiation 86 (CD86), also known as B7-2, is a molecule expressed on antigen-presenting cells that provides the costimulatory signals required for T cell activation and survival. CD86 binds to two ligands on the surface of T cells: the antigen CD28 and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4). By binding to CD28, CD86-together with CD80-promotes the participation of T cells in the antigen presentation process. However, the interrelationships among CD86, immunotherapy, and immune infiltration in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are unclear.METHODS: The immunological effects of CD86 in various cancers (including on chemokines, immunostimulators, MHC, and receptors) were evaluated through a pan-cancer analysis using TCGA and GEO databases. The relationship between CD86 expression and mononucleotide variation, gene copy number variation, methylation, immune checkpoint blockers (ICBs), and T-cell inflammation score in AML was subsequently examined. ESTIMATE and limma packages were used to identify genes at the intersection of CD86 with StromalScore and ImmuneScore. Subsequently, GO/KEGG and PPI network analyses were performed. The immune risk score (IRS) model was constructed, and the validation set was used for verification. The predictive value was compared with the TIDE score.RESULTS: CD86 was overexpressed in many cancers, and its overexpression was associated with a poor prognosis. CD86 expression was positively correlated with the expression of CTLA4, PDCD1LG2, IDO1, HAVCR2, and other genes and negatively correlated with CD86 methylation. The expression of CD86 in AML cell lines was detected by QRT-PCR and Western blot, and the results showed that CD86 was overexpressed in AML cell lines. Immune infiltration assays showed that CD86 expression was positively correlated with CD8 T cell, Dendritic cell, macrophage, NK cell, and Th1_cell and also with immune examination site, immune regulation, immunotherapy response, and TIICs. ssGSEA showed that CD86 was enriched in immune-related pathways, and CD86 expression was correlated with mutations in the genes RB1, ERBB2, and FANCC, which are associated with responses to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The IRS score performed better than the TIDE website score.CONCLUSION: CD86 appears to participate in immune invasion in AML and is an important player in the tumor microenvironment in this malignancy. At the same time, the IRS score developed by us has a good effect and may provide some support for the diagnosis of AML. Thus, CD86 may serve as a potential target for AML immunotherapy.
INTRODUCTION: Aplastic anemia (AA) is a bone marrow hematopoietic failure syndrome mediated by immune cells. The mechanism of this immune disorder is not well understood and therapeutic strategies still need to be improved.METHODS: Studies have found that abnormalities in metabolisms promote the survival of AA cells. In recent years, an increasing number of studies have reported the immunosuppressive therapy for the treatment of AA. In this study, we analyzed the transcriptome of AA from peripheral blood compared with healthy donors by single-cell sequencing and identified the affected metabolic pathways including lysine degradation. We demonstrated that the metabolic abnormalities of T lymphocytes mainly focus on glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. In addition, the metabolic abnormalities of natural killer cells concentrated in oxidative phosphorylation.RESULTS: The key genes involved in abnormal metabolic processes were Neustein neurotrophic factor (NENF), inositol polyphosphate-4-phosphatase type II B (INPP4B), aldo-keto reductase family 1, member C3 (AKR1C3), and carbohydrate (N-acetylglucosamine-6-O) sulfotransferase 2 (CHST2) by differential gene expression analysis.DISCUSSION: Molecule interaction analysis showed that tumor necrosis factor superfamily, member 12 (TNFSM12) in tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling was broadly activated in AA. In conclusion, we suppose that the treatment of the immune cells' abnormal metabolic pathway may contribute to the development of novel strategies to treat AA.
BACKGROUND: The close relationship between ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) has been supported by many aspects, including but not limited to clinical manifestations, epidemiology and pathogenesis. Some evidence suggests that immune cells actively participated in the pathogenesis of both diseases. However, information on which cells are primarily involved in this process and how these cells mobilize, migrate and interact is still limited.METHODS: Datasets were downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Common differentially expressed genes (coDEGs) were identified by package "limma". The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) were used to analyze the interactions between coDEGs. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis and inverse cumulative distribution function were applied to identify common differential pathways, while Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was used to confirm the significance. Correlation analysis between coDEGs and immune cells led to the identification of critical immune-cell-related coDEGs. The diagnostic models were established based on least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, while receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to identify the ability of the model. Validation datasets were imported to demonstrate the significant association of coDEGs with specific immune cells and the capabilities of the diagnostic model.RESULTS: In total, 67 genes were up-regulated and 185 genes were down-regulated in both diseases. Four down-regulated pathways and four up-regulated pathways were considered important. Up-regulated coDEGs were firmly associated with neutrophils, while down-regulated genes were significantly associated with CD8+ T-cells and CD4+ T-cells in both AS and IBD datasets. Five up-regulated and six down-regulated key immue-cell-related coDEGs were identified. Diagnostic models based on key immue-cell-related coDEGs were established and tested. Validation datasets confirmed the significance of the correlation between coDEGs and specific immune cells.CONCLUSION: This study provides fresh insights into the co-pathogenesis of AS and IBD. It is proposed that neutrophils and T cells may be actively involved in this process, however, in opposite ways. The immue-cell-related coDEGs, revealed in this study, may be relevant to their regulation, although relevant research is still lacking.
INTRODUCTION: Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is a progressive inflammatory myopathy characterised by skeletal muscle infiltration and myofibre invasion by CD8+ T lymphocytes. In some cases, IBM has been reported to be associated with a systemic lymphoproliferative disorder of CD8+ T cells exhibiting a highly differentiated effector phenotype known as T cell Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia (T-LGLL).METHODS: We investigated the incidence of a CD8+ T-LGL lymphoproliferative disorder in 85 IBM patients and an aged-matched group of 56 Healthy Controls (HC). Further, we analysed the phenotypical characteristics of the expanded T-LGLs and investigated whether their occurrence was associated with any particular HLA alleles or clinical characteristics.RESULTS: Blood cell analysis by flow cytometry revealed expansion of T-LGLs in 34 of the 85 (40%) IBM patients. The T cell immunophenotype of T-LGLHIGH patients was characterised by increased expression of surface molecules including CD57 and KLRG1, and to a lesser extent of CD94 and CD56 predominantly in CD8+ T cells, although we also observed modest changes in CD4+ T cells and γδ T cells. Analysis of Ki67 in CD57+ KLRG1+ T cells revealed that only a small proportion of these cells was proliferating. Comparative analysis of CD8+ and CD4+ T cells isolated from matched blood and muscle samples donated by three patients indicated a consistent pattern of more pronounced alterations in muscles, although not significant due to small sample size. In the T-LGLHIGH patient group, we found increased frequencies of perforin-producing CD8+ and CD4+ T cells that were moderately correlated to combined CD57 and KLRG1 expression. Investigation of the HLA haplotypes of 75 IBM patients identified that carriage of the HLA-C*14:02:01 allele was significantly higher in T-LGLHIGH compared to T-LGLLOW individuals. Expansion of T-LGL was not significantly associated with seropositivity patient status for anti-cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase 1A autoantibodies. Clinically, the age at disease onset and disease duration were similar in the T-LGLHIGH and T-LGLLOW patient groups. However, metadata analysis of functional alterations indicated that patients with expanded T-LGL more frequently relied on mobility aids than T-LGLLOW patients indicating greater disease severity.CONCLUSION: Altogether, these results suggest that T-LGL expansion occurring in IBM patients is correlated with exacerbated immune dysregulation and increased disease burden.
OBJECTIVES: The Notch signaling pathway has been implicated in the pathogenesis of active tuberculosis (TB), and Th1-type cell-mediated immunity is essential for effective control of mycobacterial infection. However, it remains unclear whether Notch signaling molecules (Notch1, DLL1, and Hes1) and Th1-type factors (T-bet and IFN-γ) can serve as biomarkers for tracking the progression of active TB at different stages along with peripheral blood white blood cell (WBC) parameters.METHODS: A total of 60 participants were enrolled in the study, including 37 confirmed TB patients (mild (n=17), moderate/severe (n=20)) and 23 healthy controls. The mRNA expression of Notch1, DLL1, Hes1, T-bet and IFN-γ in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of the subjects was measured by RT-qPCR, then analyzed for differences. Receiver Operating Characteristic curve (ROC) was used to assess the effectiveness of each factor as a biomarker in identifying lung injury.RESULTS: We found that mRNA expression levels of Notch1, DLL1, and Hes1 were upregulated in active TB patients, with higher levels observed in those with moderate/severe TB than those with mild TB or without TB. In contrast, mRNA levels of T-bet and IFN-γ were downregulated and significantly lower in mild and moderate/severe cases. Furthermore, the combiROC analysis of IFN-γ and the percentage of lymphocytes (L%) among WBC parameters showed superior discriminatory ability compared to other factors for identifying individuals with active TB versus healthy individuals. Notably, Notch pathway molecules were more effective than Th1-type factors and WBC parameters in differentiating mild and moderate/severe cases of active TB, particularly in the combiROC model that included Notch1 and Hes1.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that Notch1, Hes1, IFN-γ, and L% can be used as biomarkers to identify different stages of active TB patients and to monitor the effectiveness of treatment.
Effective humoral immune responses require well-orchestrated B and T follicular helper (Tfh) cell interactions. Whether these interactions are impaired and associated with COVID-19 disease severity is unclear. Here, longitudinal blood samples across COVID-19 disease severity are analysed. We find that during acute infection SARS-CoV-2-specific circulating Tfh (cTfh) cells expand with disease severity. SARS-CoV-2-specific cTfh cell frequencies correlate with plasmablast frequencies and SARS-CoV-2 antibody titers, avidity and neutralization. Furthermore, cTfh cells but not other memory CD4 T cells, from severe patients better induce plasmablast differentiation and antibody production compared to cTfh cells from mild patients. However, virus-specific cTfh cell development is delayed in patients that display or later develop severe disease compared to those with mild disease, which correlates with delayed induction of high-avidity neutralizing antibodies. Our study suggests that impaired generation of functional virus-specific cTfh cells delays high-quality antibody production at an early stage, potentially enabling progression to severe disease.
CD4+ T cells are effector T cells (Teffs) produced by the differentiation of initial T cells in peripheral lymphoid tissue after being attacked by antigens, and have an indispensable role in the development and activation of B cells and CD8+ T cells to regulate and assist immunity. In this review, we provide a new perspective on the relationship between CD4+ T cell glycolysis and its function. We summarize the effects of changes in the glycolysis level of CD4+ T cells on their activation, differentiation, proliferation, and survival. In addition, we emphasize that regulation of the glycolysis level of CD4+ T cells changes their inflammatory phenotypes and function. The study of immune metabolism has received more attention recently, but more work is needed to answer many open questions.
Immunoglobulin G4-related disease (IgG4-RD) comprises a group of immune-mediated diseases that, until recently, were considered separate entities. These entities have a similar clinical presentation, serological findings, and pathogenesis, so they are currently considered a single multisystemic disease. The common characteristic is the infiltration of involved tissues by plasma cells and lymphocytes that are positive for IgG4. Three major criteria have been proposed for the diagnosis of IgG4-RD: clinical, laboratory, and histological. The pancreas is the organ that is most affected by IgG4-RD, which can simulate a tumor. In this respect, a series of signs could help us suspect that the pancreatic findings do not reflect a tumor (halo sign, duct-penetrating sign, absence of vascular invasion, etc.). The differential diagnosis is important to avoid unnecessary surgical interventions.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) exposure in food is closely associated with the occurrence and development of breast cancer, which may attribute to altered immunotoxicity and immune regulation. Currently, cancer immunotherapy aims to promote tumor-specific T cell responses, especially CD4+T helper cells (Th) for anti-tumor immunity. The histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis) are found to exert an anti-tumor effect by reshaping the tumor immune microenvironment, but the immune regulatory mechanism of HDACis in PAHs-induced breast tumor remains elusive. Here, using established breast cancer models induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA), a potent carcinogenic agent of PAH, the novel HDACi, 2-hexyl-4-pentylene acid (HPTA) exhibited anti-tumor effect by activating T lymphocytes immune function. HPTA recruited CXCR3+CD4+T cells into chemokines CXCL9/10-enriched tumor sites, and the increased secretion of CXCL9/10 was regulated by the NF-κB-mediated pathway. Furthermore, HPTA promoted Th1 differentiation and assisted cytotoxic CD8+T cells in the elimination of breast cancer cells. These findings support the proposition of HPTA as a potential therapeutic in the treatment of PAHs-induced carcinogenicity.
Lymphocytes are key for immune surveillance of tumors, but our understanding of the spatial organization and physical interactions that facilitate lymphocyte anti-cancer functions is limited. We used multiplexed imaging, quantitative spatial analysis, and machine learning to create high-definition maps of lung tumors from a Kras/Trp53-mutant mouse model and human resections. Networks of interacting lymphocytes ("lymphonets") emerged as a distinctive feature of the anti-cancer immune response. Lymphonets nucleated from small T cell clusters and incorporated B cells with increasing size. CXCR3-mediated trafficking modulated lymphonet size and number, but T cell antigen expression directed intratumoral localization. Lymphonets preferentially harbored TCF1+ PD-1+ progenitor CD8+ T cells involved in responses to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy. Upon treatment of mice with ICB or an antigen-targeted vaccine, lymphonets retained progenitor and gained cytotoxic CD8+ T cell populations, likely via progenitor differentiation. These data show that lymphonets create a spatial environment supportive of CD8+ T cell anti-tumor responses.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate and compare the discriminative performance and clinical utility of D-dimer and the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) in the early differential diagnosis of acute aortic syndrome (AAS).METHODS: The consecutive patients presenting to Tianjin Chest Hospital for suspected AAS were retrospectively investigated between June 2018 and December 2021. The baseline values of D-dimer and NLR were analyzed and compared in the study population. The discriminative ability of D-dimer and NLR was illustrated and compared using the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC), net reclassification improvement (NRI) and integrated discrimination improvement (IDI). Clinical utility was evaluated by means of decision curve analysis (DCA).RESULTS: In the study period, a total of 697 participants suspected of having AAS were enrolled and 323 had a final diagnosis of AAS. The baseline level of NLR as well as D-dimer was higher in patients with AAS. The use of NLR showed excellent overall diagnostic performance for AAS with a comparable AUC to that of D-dimer (0.845 vs. 0.822, P > 0.05). The reclassification analyses further confirmed that NLR had better discriminative properties for AAS with a significant NRI of 66.1% and IDI of 12.4% (P < 0.001). Moreover, NLR provided higher net benefit than D-dimer as shown by DCA. Similar results were observed in subgroup analyses according to the different classes of AAS.CONCLUSIONS: NLR outperformed D-dimer with improved discriminative performance and superior clinical utility in identifying AAS. As a more readily available biomarker, NLR may be a reliable alternative to D-dimer for the screening of suspected AAS in clinical practice.
Allergic asthma is a chronic, heterogeneous and inflammatory respiratory disease, and there are few medicines at present. An increasing number of studies indicate that Trichinella spiralis (T. spiralis) and its excretory-secretory (ES) antigens are inflammatory modulator. Therefore, this study focused on the effects of T. spiralis ES antigens on allergic asthma. Asthma model was established by sensitizing mice with ovalbumin antigen (OVA) and aluminum hydroxide (Al[OH]3), the asthmatic mice were interfered using T. spiralis 43 kDa protein (Ts43), T. spiralis 49 kDa protein (Ts49), and T. spiralis 53 kDa protein (Ts53), the important components of ES antigens, to establish ES antigens intervention models. Then, asthma symptom changes, weight changes, and lung inflammation of mice were evaluated. The results showed that ES antigens could relieve symptoms, weight loss, and lung inflammation caused by asthma in the mice, and the effect of combined intervention of Ts43, Ts49, and Ts53 was better. Finally, the effects of ES antigens on type 1 helper T (Th1) and type 2 helper T (Th2) immune responses, and the differentiation direction of T lymphocytes in mice were discussed by detecting Th1 and Th2 cell-related factors and the ratio of CD4+/CD8+ T cells. The results suggested that the ratio of CD4+/CD8+ T cells decreased and the ratio of Th1/Th2 cells increased. In conclusion, this study indicated that T. spiralis ES antigens could mitigate allergic asthma in the mice by changing the differentiation direction of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and regulating the imbalance of Th1/Th2 cells ratio.
The tumor immune microenvironment dynamically evolves to support tumor growth and progression. Immunosuppressive regulatory T cells (Treg) promote tumor growth and metastatic seeding in patients with breast cancer. Deregulation of plasticity between Treg and Th17 cells creates an immune regulatory framework that enables tumor progression. Here, we discovered a functional role for Hedgehog (Hh) signaling in promoting Treg differentiation and immunosuppressive activity, and when Hh activity was inhibited, Tregs adopted a Th17-like phenotype complemented by an enhanced inflammatory profile. Mechanistically, Hh signaling promoted O-GlcNAc modifications of critical Treg and Th17 transcription factors, Foxp3 and STAT3, respectively, that orchestrated this transition. Blocking Hh reprogramed Tregs metabolically, dampened their immunosuppressive activity, and supported their transdifferentiation into inflammatory Th17 cells that enhanced the recruitment of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells into tumors. Our results demonstrate a previously unknown role for Hh signaling in the regulation of Treg differentiation and activity and the switch between Tregs and Th17 cells in the tumor microenvironment.
Ovarian cancer (OC) is the seventh most prevalent type of cancer in women and the second most common cause of cancer-related deaths in women worldwide. Because of the high rates of relapse, there is an immediate and pressing need for the discovery of innovative sensitive biomarkers for OC patients. Using TCGA and GSE26712 datasets, we were able to identify 17 survival-related DEGs in OC that had differential expression. CLDN4 was the gene that caught our attention the most out of the 17 important genes since its expression was much higher in OC samples than in nontumor samples. The findings of the ROC assays then confirmed the diagnostic utility of the test in screening OC specimens to differentiate them from nontumor specimens. Patients with high CLDN4 expression predicted a shorter overall survival (OS) and disease-specific survival (DSS) than those with low CLDN4 expression, according to clinical research. Patients with low CLDN4 expression predicted longer OS and DSS. Analysis using both univariate and multivariate techniques revealed that CLDN4 expression was an independent factor associated with a poor prognosis for OS and DSS. Based on multivariate analysis, the C-indexes and calibration plots of the nomogram suggested an effective predictive performance for OC patients. After that, we investigated whether or not there was a link between the infiltration of immune cells and the expression of the CLDN4 gene. We found that the expression of CLDN4 was positively associated with Th17 cells, NK CD56bright cells, while negatively associated with Th2 cells, pDC, and T helper cells. In the end, we carried out RT-PCR on our cohort and confirmed that the level of CLDN4 expression was noticeably elevated in OC specimens in comparison to nontumor tissues. The diagnostic usefulness of CLDN4 expression for OC was also validated by the findings of ROC tests. Thus, our findings revealed that CLDN4 may serve as a predictive biomarker in OC to assess both the clinical outcome of OC patients and the level of immune infiltration.
INTRODUCTION: People with schizophrenia have been reported to show deficits in tests of olfactory function. DNA methylation and GABAergic input have been implicated in biochemical processes controlling odor in animal studies, but this has not been investigated in human studies.METHODS: In a study of measures of DNA methylation and GABAergic mRNAs in lymphocytes, we also measured odor identification and discrimination with the Sniffin' Sticks battery in 58 patients with chronic schizophrenia (CSZ) and 48 controls. mRNAs in lymphocytes were assessed by qPCR using TaqManTM probes. Cognition was assessed by the MATRICS battery (Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia) in CSZ and controls, and symptoms in CSZ were assessed by PANSS scale (Positive and Negative Symptom Scale). The relationships of odor deficits with mRNA, cognition, and symptoms were explored by correlation analysis. Variables which significantly differentiated CSZ from controls were explored by logistic regression.RESULTS: Overall, CSZ showed significantly (P≤.001) lower scores on odor discrimination compared to controls, with a moderate effect size, but no difference in odor identification. Deficits in odor discrimination, which has not been standardly assessed in many prior studies, strongly differentiated CSZ from controls. In logistic regression analysis, odor discrimination, but not odor identification, was a significant variable predicting schizophrenia versus control class membership. This is the first study to report relationship between odor deficits and DNA methylation and GABAergic mRNAs in blood cells of human subjects. There were negative correlations of odor identification with DNA methylation enzymes mRNAs and significant negative correlations with odor discrimination and GABAergic mRNAs. Lower odor scores were significantly associated with lower cognitive scores on the MATRICS battery in CSZ but not control subjects. In CSZ, lower odor scores were significantly associated with negative symptom scores, while higher odor identification scores were associated with PANNS Excitement factor.DISCUSSION: Odor discrimination was a more powerful variable than odor identification in discriminating CSZ from controls and should be used more regularly as an odor measure in studies of schizophrenia. The substantive meaning of the negative correlations of odor discrimination and GABAergic mRNA variables in peripheral lymphocytes of CSZ needs more investigation and comparison with results in neural tissue.
Assessment of single-cell gene expression (single-cell RNA sequencing) and adaptive immune receptor (AIR) sequencing (scVDJ-seq) has been invaluable in studying lymphocyte biology. Here we introduce Dandelion, a computational pipeline for scVDJ-seq analysis. It enables the application of standard V(D)J analysis workflows to single-cell datasets, delivering improved V(D)J contig annotation and the identification of nonproductive and partially spliced contigs. We devised a strategy to create an AIR feature space that can be used for both differential V(D)J usage analysis and pseudotime trajectory inference. The application of Dandelion improved the alignment of human thymic development trajectories of double-positive T cells to mature single-positive CD4/CD8 T cells, generating predictions of factors regulating lineage commitment. Dandelion analysis of other cell compartments provided insights into the origins of human B1 cells and ILC/NK cell development, illustrating the power of our approach. Dandelion is available at https://www.github.com/zktuong/dandelion .
Colorectal cancer (CRC) stands as the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide with limited available medicines. While drug repurposing comes as a promising strategy for cancer treatment, we discovered that propranolol (Prop), a non-selective β1 and β2 adrenergic receptor blocker, significantly inhibited the development of subcutaneous CT26 CRC and AOM/DSS-induced CRC models. The RNA-seq analysis highlighted the activated immune pathways after Prop treatment, with KEGG analysis enriched in T-cell differentiation. Routine analyses of blood revealed a decrease in neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio, a biomarker of systemic inflammation, and a prognostic indicator in the Prop-treated groups in both CRC models. Analysis of the tumor-infiltrating immune cells exhibited that Prop regressed the exhaustion of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in the CT26-derived graft models, which was further corroborated in the AOM/DSS-induced models. Furthermore, bioinformatic analysis fitted well with the experimental data, showing that β2 adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) was positively correlated with T-cell exhaustion signature in various tumors. The in vitro experiment showed no direct effect of Prop on CT26 cell viability, while T cells were activated with significantly-upregulated production of IFN-γ and Granzyme B. Consistently, Prop was unable to restrain CT26 tumor growth in nude mice. At last, the combination of Prop and the chemotherapeutic drug Irinotecan acted out the strongest inhibition in CT26 tumor progress. Collectively, we repurpose Prop as a promising and economical therapeutic drug for CRC treatment and highlight T-cell as its target.
Bacterial disease is one of the important factors leading to economic losses in the turbot (Scophthalmus maximus) cultivation industry. T lymphocytes are major components of cellular immunity, whereas B lymphocytes produce immunoglobulins (Ig) that are key elements of humoral immune responses against infection. However, the genomic organization of genes encoding T-cell receptors (TCR) and immunoglobulin heavy chains (IgHs) in turbot remains largely unknown. In this study, abundant full-length transcripts of TCRs and IgHs were sequenced by Isoform-sequencing (Iso-seq), and we investigated and annotated the V, D, J and C gene loci of TCRα, TCRβ, IgT, IgM and IgD in turbot. Furthermore, through single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of blood leukocytes, we confirmed that these identified TCRs and IgHs were highly expressed in T/B cell clusters, respectively. Meanwhile, we also identified the IgM+IgD+ B and IgT+ B cells with differential gene expression profiles and potential functions. Taken together, our results provide a comprehensive understanding of TCRs and IgHs loci in turbot, which will contribute to evolutionary and functional characterization of T and B lymphocytes in teleost.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune disease. This study aimed to investigate the role of SMAD specific E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (SMURF1) in the Th17 and Th17.1 differentiation and Treg/Th17 imbalance, which are major factors contributing to the pathogenesis of SLE. SLE patients and healthy individuals were recruited to detect the SMURF1 levels in naïve CD4+ cells from peripheral blood. Purified and expanded naïve CD4+ T cells were employed to evaluate the effects of SMURF1 on Th17 and Th17.1 polarization in vitro. MRL/lpr lupus model was employed to explore the disease phenotype as well as Treg/Th17 balance in vivo. The results showed that SMURF1 was down-regulated in naïve CD4+ T cells in peripheral blood of patients with SLE and in spleen of MRL/lpr mice. SMURF1 overexpression suppressed the polarization of naïve CD4+ T cells toward Th17 and Th17.1 phenotype and down-regulated the expression of retinoid-related orphan receptor-gammat (RORγt). Subsequently, SMURF1 down-regulation aggravated the disease phenotype, inflammation, and the Treg/Th17 imbalance in MRL/lpr mice. Furthermore, we found that SMURF overexpression promoted the ubiquitination and decreases the stability of RORγt. In conclusion, SMURF1 inhibited the polarization of Th17 and Th17.1 cells and improved the Treg/Th17 imbalance in SLE, which was mediated as least partly by the ubiquitination of RORγt.
Author information:(1)Burnasyan Federal Medical Biophysical Center, Moscow, Russia.(2)I.M. Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, Russia.(3)Russian Medical Academy of Continuous Professional Education, Moscow, Russia.
Signal inhibitory receptor on leukocytes-1 (SIRL-1) is an immune inhibitory receptor expressed on human myeloid cells. We previously showed that dendritic cell (DC)-driven Th17 cell differentiation of human naive CD4+ T cells requires presence of neutrophils, which is inhibited by SIRL-1 ligation. VSTM1-v2 is a soluble isoform of SIRL-1, which was previously proposed to function as a Th17 polarizing cytokine. Here, we investigated the effect of VSTM1-v2 on DC-driven Th17 cell development. Neutrophils induced DC-driven Th17 cell differentiation, which was not enhanced by VSTM1-v2. Similarly, we found no effect of VSTM1-v2 on cytokine-driven Th17 cell development. Thus, our results do not support a role for VSTM1-v2 in Th17 cell differentiation.
Menthol and tobacco flavors are available for almost all tobacco products, including electronic cigarettes (e-cigs). These flavors are a mixture of chemicals with overlapping constituents. There are no comparative toxicity studies of these flavors produced by different manufacturers. We hypothesized that acute exposure to menthol and tobacco-flavored e-cig aerosols induces inflammatory, genotoxicity, and metabolic responses in mouse lungs. We compared two brands, A and B, e-cig flavors (PG/VG, menthol, and tobacco) with and without nicotine for their inflammatory response, genotoxic markers, altered genes and proteins in the context of metabolism by exposing mouse strains, C57BL/6J (Th1-mediated) and BALB/cJ (Th2-mediated). Brand A nicotine-free menthol exposure caused increased neutrophils and differential T-lymphocyte influx in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and induced significant immunosuppression, while brand A tobacco with nicotine elicited an allergic inflammatory response with increased Eotaxin, IL-6, and RANTES levels. Brand B elicited a similar inflammatory response in menthol flavor exposure. Upon e-cig exposure, genotoxicity markers, significantly increased in lung tissue. These inflammatory and genotoxicity responses were associated with altered NLRP3 inflammasome and TRPA1 induction by menthol flavor. Nicotine decreased surfactant protein D and increased PAI-1 by menthol and tobacco flavors, respectively. Integration of inflammatory and metabolic pathway gene expression analysis showed immunometabolic regulation in T-cells via PI3K/Akt/p70S6k-mTOR axis associated with suppressed immunity/allergic immune response. Overall, this study showed comparative toxicity of flavored e-cig aerosols, unraveling potential signaling pathways of nicotine and flavor-mediated pulmonary toxicological responses, and emphasized the need for standardized toxicity testing for appropriate premarket authorization of e-cigarette products.
BACKGROUND: LL-37 is the only member of the cathelicidin family of antimicrobial peptides in humans and is an autoantigen in several autoimmune diseases and in acute coronary syndrome (ACS). In this report, we profiled the specific T cell response to the autoimmune self-antigen LL-37 and investigated the factors modulating the response in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of healthy subjects and ACS patients.METHODS AND RESULTS: The activation induced marker (AIM) assay demonstrated differential T cell profiles characterized by the persistence of CD134 and CD137, markers that impair tolerance and promote immune effector and memory response, in ACS compared to Controls. Specifically, CD8+CD69+CD137+ T cells were significantly increased by LL-37 stimulation in ACS PBMCs. T effector cell response to LL-37 were either HLA dependent or independent as determined by blocking with monoclonal antibody to either Class-I HLA or Class-II HLA. Blocking of immune checkpoints PD-1 and CTLA-4 demonstrated the control of self-reactive T cell response to LL-37 was modulated predominantly by CTLA-4. Platelets from healthy controls down-modulated CD8+CD69+CD137+ T cell response to LL-37 in autologous PBMCs. CD8+CD69+CD137+ T cell AIM profile negatively correlated with platelet count in ACS patients.CONCLUSIONS: Our report demonstrates that the immune response to the autoantigen LL-37 in ACS patients is characterized specifically by CD8+CD69+CD137+ T cell AIM profile with persistent T cell activation and the generation of immunologic memory. The results provide potentially novel insight into mechanistic pathways of antigen-specific immune signaling in ACS.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have revolutionized cancer treatment; however, the responses to ICI treatment are highly variable in different individuals and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we employed a mouse squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) model where tumor-bearing recipients diverged into responders (R) versus non-responders (NR) upon anti-PD-L1 treatment. We performed in-depth TCRβ sequencing with immunoSEQ platform to delineate the differences in CD8 tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). We found that R and NR CD8 TILs both exhibited evidence of clonal expansion, suggesting activation regardless of response status. We detected no differences in clonal expansion or clonal diversity indexes between R vs. NR. However, the top expanded (>1%) TCRβ clonotypes appeared to be mutually exclusive between R and NR CD8 TILs, showing a preferential expansion of distinct TCRβ clonotypes in response to the same SCC tumor in R vs. NR. Notably, the mutual exclusivity of TCR clonotypes in R vs. NR was only observed when top TCRβ clonotypes were counted, because such top-expanded clonotypes are present in the opposite outcome group at a much lower frequency. Many TCRβ sequences were detected in only one recipient at a high frequency, implicating highly individualized anti-tumor immune responses. We conclude that differences in the clonal frequency of top TCR clonotypes between R and NR CD8 TILs may be one of the factors underlying differential anti-PD-L1 responses. This notion may offer a novel explanation for variable ICI responses in different individuals, which may substantially impact the development of new strategies for personalized cancer immunotherapy.
OBJECTIVES: Existing Brucella vaccines are attenuated and can cause vaccine-associated brucellosis; and these safety concerns have affected their application. Although subunit vaccines have the advantages of safety, efficacy, low cost, and rapid production, they are usually poorly immunogenic and insufficient to trigger persistent immunity. Therefore, we added layered double hydroxide (LDH) as an adjuvant to Brucella subunit vaccine formulations to enhance the immune response to the antigen.MATERIALS AND METHODS: LDH and Freund's adjuvant were combined with Brucella outer-membrane vesicles (OMVs) and OMV-associated proteins to form a subunit vaccine, respectively. The immunogenicity of LDH as an adjuvant was assessed in BALB/c mice. We examined levels of immunoglobulin G, G1, and G2a (IgG, IgG1, and IgG2a) antibodies (aBs); percentages of Cluster of Differentiation 4-positive (CD4+) and CD8+ T cells in peripheral-blood lymphocytes; and secretion of cytokines in mouse spleen lymphocytes. Finally, splenic index and splenic bacterial load were assessed via Brucella challenge experiments on mice.RESULTS: The LDH subunit vaccine also produced high levels of specific aBs in mice compared with Freund's adjuvant subunit vaccine and induced mainly T-helper 1 cell (Th1)-type immune responses. In addition, mice in the LDH subunit vaccine group had significantly lower bacterial loads in their spleens than those in the Freund's adjuvant subunit vaccine group, and the LDH-OMV vaccine offered a higher level of protection against Brucella attack.CONCLUSION: LDH as an adjuvant-paired vaccine provided a high level of protection against Brucella infection.
Given that one of the crucial events in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease is the loss of homeostasis between Th17 and Treg cells, targeting the specific molecules of the Th17/Treg axis developmental pathway is a promising strategy for inflammatory bowel disease prevention and treatment. The current study aimed to assess the impact of cornelian cherry (Cornus mas L.) extract, rich in iridoids and polyphenols known for their potential anti-inflammatory activity, at two doses (20 or 100 mg/kg) on the crucial factors for Th17/Treg cell differentiation in the course of experimental colitis and compare this action with that of sulfasalazine. This study was conducted on the biobank colon tissue samples collected during the previous original experiment, in which colitis in rats was induced by trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS). The levels of IL-6, RORγt, total STAT3, p-STAT3, and Foxp3 were determined by ELISA. The expression of PIAS3 mRNA was quantified by qPCR. Cornelian cherry extract at a dose of 100 mg/kg counteracted the TNBS-induced elevation of IL-6, RORγt, and p-STAT3 levels and a decrease in Foxp3 level and PIAS3 mRNA expression, while given concomitantly with sulfasalazine was more effective than sulfasalazine alone in reversing the TNBS-induced changes in IL-6, RORγt, total STAT3, p-STAT3, Foxp3 levels, and PIAS3 mRNA expression. The beneficial effect of cornelian cherry extract on experimental colitis may be due to its immunomodulatory activity reflected by the influence on factors regulating the Th17/Treg axis.
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) is a heterogeneous disease in Western and Chinese populations, and it is still not well characterized in Chinese patients. Based on a large cohort of newly diagnosed CLL/SLL patients from China, we investigated immunophenotypes, genetic abnormalities, and their correlations. Eighty-four percent of the CLL/SLL patients showed typical immunophenotypes with scores of 4 or 5 points in the Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) scoring system (classic group), and the remaining 16% of patients were atypical with scores lower than 4 points (atypical group). Trisomy 12 and variants of TP53, NOTCH1, SF3B1, ATM, and MYD88 were the most recurrent genetic aberrations. Additionally, unsupervised genomic analysis based on molecular genetics revealed distinctive characteristics of MYD88 variants in CLL/SLL. By overlapping different correlation grouping analysis from genetics to immunophenotypes, the results showed MYD88 variants to be highly related to atypical CLL/SLL immunophenotypes. Furthermore, compared with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), the genetic landscape showed potential value in clinical differential diagnosis of atypical CLL/SLL and MCL patients. These results reveal immunophenotypic and genetic features, and may provide insights into the tumorigenesis and clinical management of Chinese CLL/SLL patients.
Milk differential somatic cell count (DSCC) represents the percentage of polymorphonuclear neutrophils and lymphocytes out of the total somatic cell count (SCC) and has been proposed in recent years as a proxy for udder health in dairy cows. We investigated phenotypic factors affecting SCC and DSCC using 3978 records of 212 Alpine Grey and 426 Burlina cows farmed in Northern Italy. The linear mixed model accounted for the fixed effects of breed, parity, lactation stage, sampling season, and first-order interactions of breed with the other effects. Cow, herd-test-date nested within breed were random. Subsequently, four udder health status groups (UHS) were created by combining SCC and DSCC to assess the UHS impact on milk yield and quality. DSCC was greater in Alpine Grey (66.2 ± 0.8%) than Burlina cows (63.2 ± 0.6%) and, similarly to SCC, it increased with days in milk and parity regardless of breed. Milk yield and composition were affected by UHS in both breeds. These results suggest that also udder health of local breeds can be monitored on a large scale through SCC and DSCC for reduction in biodiversity loss and increased farm profitability. However, in addition to milk data, the introduction of mastitis recording and monitoring plans is advisable.
African swine fever (ASF) is a devastating infectious disease in domestic pigs caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV) with a mortality rate of about 100%. However, the understanding of the interaction between ASFV and host is still not clear. In this study, the expression differences and functional analysis of microRNA (miRNA) in porcine peripheral blood lymphocytes of ASFV infected pigs and healthy pigs were compared based on Illumina high-throughput sequencing, then the GO and KEGG signal pathways were analyzed. The miRNA related to immunity and inflammation were screened, and the regulatory network of miRNA-mRNA was drawn. A total of 70 differentially expressed miRNAs were found (p ≤ 0.05). Of these, 45 were upregulated and 25 were downregulated in ASFV-infected pigs vs. healthy pigs. A total of 8179 mRNA genes targeted by these 70 differentially expressed miRNA were predicted, of which 1447 mRNA genes were targeted by ssc-miR-2320-5p. Five differentially expressed miRNA were validated by RT-qPCR, which were consistent with the RNA-Seq results. The GO analysis revealed that a total of 30 gene functions were significantly enriched, including 7 molecular functions (MF), 13 cellular components (CC), and 10 biological processes (BP). The KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched in pathways related to immunity, inflammation, and various metabolic processes, in which a total of two downregulated miRNAs after infection and eight upregulated miRNAs related to immunity and inflammation were screened in ASFV-infected pigs vs. healthy pigs. The network of miRNA-mRNA showed that the mRNA target genes were strongly regulated by ssc-miR-214, ssc-miR-199b-3p, and ssc-miR-199a-3p. The mRNA target genes were enriched into the MAPK signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, TNF signaling pathway, and IL-17 signaling pathway by using a KEGG enrichment analysis. Therefore, ASFV could regulate immunity and metabolism-related pathways in infected pigs by inducing differential expression of miRNAs. These results provided a new basis for further elucidating the interactions between ASFV and the host as well as the immunity regulation mechanisms of ASFV, which will be conducive to better controlling ASF.
Mastitis is a major cause of antimicrobial treatments either during lactation or at drying off. From a One Health perspective, there should be a balance between the risk of IMI that may impair cow health and welfare and the reduction of antimicrobial usage to decrease antimicrobial resistance, as may happen when applying selective dry-cow therapy. This reduction may be achieved by an early and accurate diagnosis followed by prudent and rationale therapeutical protocols. This study aims to assess the accuracy of PLCC (neutrophils + lymphocyte count/mL) in identifying cows at risk of having IMI due to major pathogens (S.aureus, Str.agalactiae, Str.uberis, and Str.dysgalactiae), and to simulate the impact of this early diagnosis on the potential number of treatments using a decision-tree model. The results of this study showed that PLCC had an overall accuracy of 77.6%. The results of the decision-tree model based on data from the 12 participating herds, with an overall prevalence of major pathogens of 1.5%, showed a potential decrease in the number of treatments of about 30% (from 3.4% to 2.5%) when PLCC in early lactation (days 5-16) was used to identify cows at risk for major pathogens compared with using SCC at the first milk test (days 17-43). The study confirmed that it is possible to improve animal health and reduce the risk of antimicrobial use through early IMI detection based on PLCC and applying a rationale and prudent antimicrobial protocol.
Gliomas are considered one of the most malignant tumors in the body. The immune system has the ability to control the initiation and development of tumors, including gliomas. Thus, immune cells find themselves controlled by various molecular pathways, inhibiting their activation, such as the immunosuppressive adenosine 2A receptor (A2AR). Our objective was to establish the expression profile and role of A2AR at the transcriptomic level, using real-time RT-PCR in Moroccan glioma patients, in addition to TCGA and CGGA cohorts. The real-time RT-PCR results in Moroccan patients showed that high expression of this gene was associated with poor survival in males. Our study on the CGGA cohort corroborated these results. In addition, there was a positive association of A2AR with T-cell exhaustion genes. A2AR also correlated strongly with genes that are primarily enriched in focal adhesion and extracellular matrix interactions, inducing epithelial mesenchymal transition, angiogenesis, and glioma growth. However, in the TCGA cohort, the A2AR showed results that were different from the two previously examined cohorts. In fact, this gene was instead linked to a good prognosis in patients with the astrocytoma histological type. The correlation and enrichment results reinforced the prognostic role of A2AR in this TCGA cohort, in which its high expression was shown to be related to lymphocyte differentiation and a successful cytolytic response, suggesting a more efficient anti-tumor immune response. Correlations and differential analyses based on A2AR gene expression, to understand the cause of the association of this gene with two different prognoses (CGGA males and TCGA Astrocytoma), showed that the overexpression of A2AR in Chinese male patients could be associated with the overexpression of extracellular adenosine, which binds to A2AR to induce immunosuppression and consequently a poor prognosis. However, in the second group (TCGA astrocytomas), the overexpression of the gene could be associated with an adenosine deficiency, and therefore this receptor does not undergo activation. The absence of A2AR activation in these patients may have protected them from immunosuppression, which could reflect the good prognosis. A2AR can be considered a promising therapeutic target in male CGGA and Moroccan patients with gliomas.
Regulatory T cells (Treg) are essential for the maintenance of peripheral tolerance. Treg dysfunction results in diverse inflammatory and autoimmune diseases with life-threatening consequences. β2-integrins (CD11a-d/CD18) play important roles in the migration of leukocytes into inflamed tissues and cell signaling. Of all β2-integrins, T cells, including Treg, only express CD11a/CD18, termed lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1), on their surface. In humans, loss-of-function mutations in the common subunit CD18 result in leukocyte adhesion deficiency type-1 (LAD-1). Clinical symptoms vary depending on the extent of residual β2-integrin function, and patients may experience leukocytosis and recurrent infections. Some patients can develop autoimmune diseases, but the immune processes underlying the paradoxical situation of immune deficiency and autoimmunity have been scarcely investigated. To understand this complex phenotype, different transgenic mouse strains with a constitutive knockout of β2-integrins have been established. However, since a constitutive knockout affects all leukocytes and may limit the validity of studies focusing on their cell type-specific role, we established a Treg-specific CD18-floxed mouse strain. This mini-review aims to delineate the role of LFA-1 for the induction, maintenance, and regulatory function of Treg in vitro and in vivo as deduced from observations using the various β2-integrin-deficient mouse models.
Most primary cutaneous lymphomas consist of T-cell lymphomas or small cell lymphomas; however, the skin may also be affected by lymphomas with large cell morphology, as a primary or secondary localization. A minority of cases consist of primary cutaneous B-cell lymphomas (PCBCLs). PCBCLs are a heterogeneous group of rare neoplasms with an overlapping morphological and immunohistochemical picture of the different subtypes. Nevertheless, differential diagnosis in the setting of this group of neoplasms is mandatory to identify the correct therapy and prognosis, but it may be challenging since, due to the rarity of these neoplasms, they may not always be familiar to pathologists. Indeed, immunohistochemistry may not be enough to distinguish the different histotypes, which overlap in immunohistochemical features. Furthermore, the ever-increasing knowledge of the molecular features of systemic B-cell lymphomas, such as gene rearrangements with clinical significance, has led in recent years to further investigation into the molecular landscape of PCBCLs with large cell morphology. This work aimed to provide a practical diagnostic guide for pathologists dealing with primary cutaneous large B-cell lymphomas.
Epidemiological evidence supports an association between cow's milk consumption and the risk of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common non-Hodgkin lymphoma worldwide. This narrative review intends to elucidate the potential impact of milk-related agents, predominantly milk-derived exosomes (MDEs) and their microRNAs (miRs) in lymphomagenesis. Upregulation of PI3K-AKT-mTORC1 signaling is a common feature of DLBCL. Increased expression of B cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) and suppression of B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein 1 (BLIMP1)/PR domain-containing protein 1 (PRDM1) are crucial pathological deviations in DLBCL. Translational evidence indicates that during the breastfeeding period, human MDE miRs support B cell proliferation via epigenetic upregulation of BCL6 (via miR-148a-3p-mediated suppression of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) and miR-155-5p/miR-29b-5p-mediated suppression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AICDA) and suppression of BLIMP1 (via MDE let-7-5p/miR-125b-5p-targeting of PRDM1). After weaning with the physiological termination of MDE miR signaling, the infant's BCL6 expression and B cell proliferation declines, whereas BLIMP1-mediated B cell maturation for adequate own antibody production rises. Because human and bovine MDE miRs share identical nucleotide sequences, the consumption of pasteurized cow's milk in adults with the continued transfer of bioactive bovine MDE miRs may de-differentiate B cells back to the neonatal "proliferation-dominated" B cell phenotype maintaining an increased BLC6/BLIMP1 ratio. Persistent milk-induced epigenetic dysregulation of BCL6 and BLIMP1 expression may thus represent a novel driving mechanism in B cell lymphomagenesis. Bovine MDEs and their miR cargo have to be considered potential pathogens that should be removed from the human food chain.
Recent studies have indicated a key role of the impaired suppressive capacity of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in psoriasis (PsO) pathogenesis. However, the genetic background of Treg dysfunctions remains unknown. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association of PsO development with selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of genes in which protein products play a significant role in the regulation of differentiation and function of Tregs. There were three study groups in our research and each consisted of different unrelated patients and controls: 192 PsO patients and 5605 healthy volunteers in the microarray genotyping group, 150 PsO patients and 173 controls in the ARMS-PCR method group, and 6 PsO patients and 6 healthy volunteers in the expression analysis group. The DNA microarrays analysis (283 SNPs of 57 genes) and ARMS-PCR method (8 SNPs in 7 genes) were used to determine the frequency of occurrence of SNPs in selected genes. The mRNA expression of selected genes was determined in skin samples. There were statistically significant differences in the allele frequencies of four SNPs in three genes (TNF, IL12RB2, and IL12B) between early-onset PsO patients and controls. The lowest p-value was observed for rs3093662 (TNF), and the G allele carriers had a 2.73 times higher risk of developing early-onset PsO. Moreover, the study revealed significant differences in the frequency of SNPs and their influence on PsO development between early- and late-onset PsO. Based on the ARMS-PCR method, the association between some polymorphisms of four genes (IL4, IL10, TGFB1, and STAT3) and the risk of developing PsO was noticed. Psoriatic lesions were characterized with a lower mRNA expression of FOXP3, CTLA4, and IL2, and a higher expression of TNF and IL1A in comparison with unaffected skin. In conclusion, the genetic background associated with properly functioning Tregs seems to play a significant role in PsO pathogenesis and could have diagnostic value.
Crohn's disease is a highly heterogeneous autoimmune disease with a unique inflammatory phenotype of T cells at the lesion site. We aim to further explore the diagnosis of Crohn's disease and drug prediction of T cell marker gene expression. We obtained single-cell expression profile data from 22 CDs or normal samples and performed cell annotation and cellular communication analysis. Through the intersection of T cell marker genes, differential genes, and WGCNA results, we identified T cell-specific key genes and their immune landscapes and potential pathogenesis, and validated them across multiple datasets and patient tissue samples. We also explored the differentiation characteristics of genes by pseudo-temporal analysis and assessed their diagnostic performance and drug sensitivity by molecular docking. Finally, we extended this study to the prognosis of IBD-associated colon cancer. TNF-centered 5-gene diagnostic model not only has excellent diagnostic efficacy, but is also closely associated with KRAS, P53, and IL6/JAK/STAT3 pathways and physiological processes, such as EMT, coagulation, and apoptosis. In addition, this diagnostic model may have potential synergistic immunotherapeutic effects, with positive correlations with immune checkpoints such as CTLA4, CD86, PDCD1LG2, and CD40. Molecular docking demonstrated that BIRC3 and ANXA1 have strong binding properties to Azathioprine and Glucoocorticoid. Furthermore, the 5-gene model may suggest antagonism to IFX and prognosis for colon cancer associated with inflammatory bowel disease. Single-cell sequencing targeting T cell-related features in patients with Crohn's disease may aid in new diagnostic decisions, as well as the initial exploration of high-potential therapies.
Leiomyosarcoma (LMS) is a rare, aggressive mesenchymal tumor with smooth muscle differentiation. LMS is one of the most common histologic subtypes of soft tissue sarcoma; it most frequently occurs in the extremities, retroperitoneum, or uterus. LMS often demonstrates aggressive tumor biology, with a higher risk of developing distant metastatic disease than most sarcoma histologic types. The prognosis is poor, particularly in patients with uterine disease, and there is a need for the development of more effective therapies. Genetically, LMS is karyotypically complex and characterized by a low tumor mutational burden, with frequent alterations in TP53, RB1, PTEN, and DNA damage response pathways that may contribute to resistance against immune-checkpoint blockade monotherapy. The LMS immune microenvironment is highly infiltrated with tumor-associated macrophages and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, which may represent promising biomarkers. This review provides an overview of the clinical and pathologic behavior of both soft tissue and uterine LMS and summarizes the genomic and immune characteristics of these tumors and how they may provide opportunities for the development of biomarker-based immune therapies.
Combination of radiation therapy (RT) with immune checkpoint blockade can enhance systemic anti-tumor T cell responses. Here, using two mouse tumor models, we demonstrate that adding long-acting CD122-directed IL-2 complexes (IL-2c) to RT/anti-PD1 further increases tumor-specific CD8+ T cell numbers. The highest increase (>50-fold) is found in the blood circulation. Compartmental analysis of exhausted T cell subsets shows that primarily undifferentiated, stem-like, tumor-specific CD8+ T cells expand in the blood; these cells express the chemokine receptor CXCR3, which is required for migration into tumors. In tumor tissue, effector-like but not terminally differentiated exhausted CD8+ T cells increase. Consistent with the surge in tumor-specific CD8+ T cells in blood that are migration and proliferation competent, we observe a CD8-dependent and CXCR3-dependent enhancement of the abscopal effect against distant/non-irradiated tumors and find that CD8+ T cells isolated from blood after RT/anti-PD1/IL-2c triple treatment can be a rich source of tumor-specific T cells for adoptive transfers.
BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell-based immunotherapy constitutes a revolutionary advance for treatment of relapsed/refractory hematological malignancies. Nevertheless, cytokine release and immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndromes are life-threatening toxicities in which the endothelium could be a pathophysiological substrate. Furthermore, differential diagnosis from sepsis, highly incident in these patients, is challenging. Suitable laboratory tools could be determinant for their appropriate management.METHODS: Sixty-two patients treated with CAR-T cell immunotherapy for hematological malignancies (n=46 with CD19-positive diseases, n=16 with multiple myeloma) were included. Plasma samples were obtained: before CAR-T cell infusion (baseline); after 24-48 hours; at suspicion of any toxicity onset and 24-48 hours after immunomodulatory treatment. Biomarkers of endothelial dysfunction (soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (sVCAM-1), soluble TNF receptor 1 (sTNFRI), thrombomodulin (TM), soluble suppression of tumorigenesis-2 factor (ST2), angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2)), innate immunity activation (neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), soluble C5b-9 (sC5b-9)) and hemostasis/fibrinolysis (von Willebrand Factor antigen (VWF:Ag), ADAMTS-13 (A13), α2-antiplasmin (α2-AP), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 antigen (PAI-1 Ag)) were measured and compared with those in cohorts of patients with sepsis and healthy donors.RESULTS: Patients who developed CAR-T cell toxicities presented increased levels of sVCAM-1, sTNFRI and ST2 at the clinical onset versus postinfusion values. Twenty-four hours after infusion, ST2 levels were good predictors of any CAR-T cell toxicity, and combination of ST2, Ang-2 and NETs differentiated patients requiring intensive care unit admission from those with milder clinical presentations. Association of Ang-2, NETs, sC5b-9, VWF:Ag and PAI-1 Ag showed excellent discrimination between severe CAR-T cell toxicities and sepsis.CONCLUSIONS: This study provides relevant contributions to the current knowledge of the CAR-T cell toxicities pathophysiology. Markers of endotheliopathy, innate immunity activation and hemostatic imbalance appear as potential laboratory tools for their prediction, severity and differential diagnosis.
Thymomas composed predominantly of epithelioid tumor cells with scattered lymphocytes have been well recognized in the literature. This subtype of thymoma has been variously termed epithelial-rich thymoma, well-differentiated thymic carcinoma, atypical thymoma, or World Health Organization (WHO) type B3 thymoma. Regardless of the designation however, these tumors are known to show a spectrum of histopathological growth patterns that may pose challenges in interpretation and diagnosis, particularly when dealing with small mediastinoscopic biopsies. Just like any other type of thymoma, those composed predominantly of epithelioid cells may present as encapsulated or invasive tumors. Nevertheless, compared to other subtypes of thymoma, they are uncommon neoplasms. Therefore, it becomes very important to sufficiently sample thymomas before making a diagnosis of a particular subtype, especially when the tumor is rich in epithelioid cells and only has a scant lymphocytic component. Because of the unusual occurrence of these tumors, there are only few large series of cases that attempt to highlight not only the more salient histopathological features but also the most important immunohistochemical and molecular characteristics.
In the present study, on the one hand, the epigenetic modification of condensed "old" chromatin was determined, and on the other hand, the influence of peptide bioregulators (Ala-Glu-Asp-Gly-Epitalon; Lys-Glu-Asp-Ala-Livagen; Ala-Glu-Asp-Pro - Cortagen and Lys-Glu - Vilon) on condensed chromatin in lymphocytes from old individuals. Were used molecular-cytogenetic methods: differential scanning calorimetry; activity of ribosomal genes of acrocentric chromosome satellite stalks-NORs; polymorphism of structural pericentromeric C-heterochromatin; variability of the facultative heterochromatin (sister chromatid exchanges - SCE) in the culture of lymphocytes from 75-88-year-old individuals. The analysis of results shows the chromosome progressive heterochromatinization (condensation of eu - and heterochromatin regions) occur in aging. Epigenetics process - heterochromatinization can deactivate many previously functioning active genes. It blocks certain stages of normal metabolic processes in the cell, which inhibits many specific enzymes and leads to aging pathologies. We show that peptide bioregulators induced unrolling deheterochromatinization (decondensation) of total heterochromatin, deheterochromatinization of satellite stalks of acrocentric chromosome, activating synthetic processes of ribosomal genes, does not cause deheterochromatinized of pericentromeric structural heterochromatin. This data also indicates that each of the studied peptide bioregulators (Ala-Glu-Asp-Gly; Lys-Glu-Asp-Ala; Ala-Glu-Asp-Pro and Lys-Glu) has a selective effect on definite regions of chromosomes. Thus, short peptide bioregulators induce selective heterochromatinization and deheterochromatinization of chromosome regions (remodeling of facultative heterochromatin) in individuals 75-88 years old that opens up new opportunities in the treatment of aging diseases.
Cowdria polymorphic gene 1 (cpg1, Erum2510, ERUM_RS01380) has been shown to induce 30% and 100% protection in sheep immunised by deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) prime combined with DNA boost and DNA prime combined with protein boost, respectively, against heartwater infection via needle challenge. To localise its antigenic regions for inclusion in a multi-epitope DNA vaccine against heartwater, Erum2510 was cleaved into five overlapping subfragments. These subfragments were expressed individually in an Escherichia coli host expression system and evaluated for their ability to induce proliferative responses, Th1 and Th2 cytokines (interferon gamma [IFN-γ] and interleukin 4 [IL-4]) via enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot), quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and flow cytometry. Recombinant (r)proteins 3 and 4 were shown to induce immunodominant Th1 and Th2 immune responses characterised by the secretion of effector cytokines IFN-γ and IL-4 in addition to differential messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of tumour necrosis factor (TNF), IL-2, IL-1, IL-18, IL-10, transforming growth factor (TGF), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Thirty-seven overlapping synthetic peptides (16 mer) spanning the lengths of these immunodominant rproteins were synthesised and assayed. A peptide pool comprising p9 and p10 derived from rprotein 3 induced a Th1-biased immune response. A peptide pool comprising p28 and p29 derived from rprotein 4 induced a mixed Th1 and Th2 immune response characterised by secretion of IFN-γ and differential mRNA expression of IL-1, IL-2, IL-10, IL-12, iNOS, TGF, TNF and GM-CSF. Only one of the peptides (p29) induced secretion of IL-4. Phenotypic analysis showed significant activation of cluster of differentiation 8+ (CD8+), cluster of differentiation 4+ (CD4+) and B+ lymphocyte populations. Findings suggest that Erum2510 rproteins and synthetic peptides can induce both cellular and humoral immune responses, thereby implicating their importance in protection against heartwater.Contribution: This study will facilitate the design of an effective multi-epitope DNA vaccine against heartwater that will contribute to control this economically important disease in sub-Saharan Africa and beyond.
Little progress has been made in the treatment and prognosis of osteosarcoma in the past 40 years. Tumor microenvironment (TME) plays a critical role in the progression of osteosarcoma. This study aims to determine immune-associated prognostic biomarkers for osteosarcoma patients. With the help of analytical tools including ESTIMATE, differential gene expression, LASSO, and univariate cox and multivariate cox regression analysis, osteosarcoma gene expression data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases were investigated. Following the establishment of a prognostic risk score model, internal and external validations using the GEO and TARGET databases were carried out. A total of 44 and 55 samples respectively in the GSE21257 and the TARGET databases were included. Our analysis found 93 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the high and low-ImmuneScore groups. Through univariate cox and LASSO analysis, ALOX5AP was identified as an indicator of TME in osteosarcomas. ALOX5AP was then used to construct a prognostic risk model. Internal and external verification revealed that higher expression of ALOX5AP was correlated with lower risk. Through the CIBERSORT algorithm, the level of CD8 T cells was found to negatively correlate with the risk score. This study revealed that ALOX5AP is an indicator for predicting high CD8 lymphocyte infiltration and "hot" tumor microenvironment in osteosarcomas. Thus, ALOX5AP has the potential to act as a biomarker for effective immunotherapies in osteosarcoma patients.
Liver, as an immune and detoxification organ, represents an important line of defense against bacteria and infection and a vulnerable organ that is easily injured during sepsis. Artesunate (ART) is an anti-malaria agent, that also exhibits broad pharmacological activities including anti-inflammatory, immune-regulation and liver protection. In this study, we investigated the cellular responses in liver to sepsis infection and ART hepatic-protective mechanisms against sepsis. Cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)-induced sepsis model was established in mice. The mice were administered ART (10 mg/kg, i.p.) at 4 h, and sacrificed at 12 h after the surgery. Liver samples were collected for preparing single-cell RNA transcriptome sequencing (scRNA-seq). The scRNA-seq analysis revealed that sepsis-induced a dramatic reduction of hepatic endothelial cells, especially the subtypes characterized with proliferation and differentiation. Macrophages were recruited during sepsis and released inflammatory cytokines (Tnf, Il1b, Il6), chemokines (Ccl6, Cd14), and transcription factor (Nfkb1), resulting in liver inflammatory responses. Massive apoptosis of lymphocytes and abnormal recruitment of neutrophils caused immune dysfunction. ART treatment significantly improved the survival of CLP mice within 96 h, and partially relieved or reversed the above-mentioned pathological features, mitigating the impact of sepsis on liver injury, inflammation, and dysfunction. This study provides comprehensive fundamental proof for the liver protective efficacy of ART against sepsis infection, which would potentially contribute to its clinical translation for sepsis therapy. Single cell transcriptome reveals the changes of various hepatocyte subtypes of CLP-induced liver injury and the potential pharmacological effects of artesunate on sepsis.
Although the importance of genome organization for transcriptional regulation of cell-fate decisions and function is clear, the changes in chromatin architecture and how these impact effector and memory CD8+ T cell differentiation remain unknown. Using Hi-C, we studied how genome configuration is integrated with CD8+ T cell differentiation during infection and investigated the role of CTCF, a key chromatin remodeler, in modulating CD8+ T cell fates through CTCF knockdown approaches and perturbation of specific CTCF-binding sites. We observed subset-specific changes in chromatin organization and CTCF binding and revealed that weak-affinity CTCF binding promotes terminal differentiation of CD8+ T cells through the regulation of transcriptional programs. Further, patients with de novo CTCF mutations had reduced expression of the terminal-effector genes in peripheral blood lymphocytes. Therefore, in addition to establishing genome architecture, CTCF regulates effector CD8+ T cell heterogeneity through altering interactions that regulate the transcription factor landscape and transcriptome.
Interferon-γ (IFN-γ) is a key cytokine in response to viral or intracellular bacterial infection in mammals. While a number of enhancers are described to promote IFN-γ responses, to the best of our knowledge, no silencers for the Ifng gene have been identified. By examining H3K4me1 histone modification in naive CD4+ T cells within Ifng locus, we identified a silencer (CNS-28) that restrains Ifng expression. Mechanistically, CNS-28 maintains Ifng silence by diminishing enhancer-promoter interactions within Ifng locus in a GATA3-dependent but T-bet-independent manner. Functionally, CNS-28 restrains Ifng transcription in NK cells, CD4+ cells, and CD8+ T cells during both innate and adaptive immune responses. Moreover, CNS-28 deficiency resulted in repressed type 2 responses due to elevated IFN-γ expression, shifting Th1 and Th2 paradigm. Thus, CNS-28 activity ensures immune cell quiescence by cooperating with other regulatory cis elements within the Ifng gene locus to minimize autoimmunity.
OBJECTIVES: To report findings from the 2021 Society for Hematopathology/European Association for Haematopathology Workshop within the category of B-cell lineage neoplasms' transdifferentiation into histiocytic/dendritic cell neoplasms (HDCNs).METHODS: The workshop panel reviewed 29 cases, assigned consensus diagnoses, and summarized findings.RESULTS: The specific diagnoses of transdifferentiated HDCN tumors were histiocytic sarcoma (16); Langerhans cell histiocytosis/sarcoma (5); indeterminate DC tumor (1); and HDCN, unclassifiable (1). Approximately one-third of the patients reviewed had follicular lymphoma; lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma; or another B-cell lymphoma, most commonly chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. There was a 3:1 preponderance toward women, median patient age was 60 years, and the median interval between the initial diagnosis of B-cell lineage neoplasm and HDCN was 4 to 5 years. The submitted cases have demonstrated substantial heterogeneity as well as overlapping immunophenotypic and other features. Comprehensive genomic DNA sequencing revealed alterations enriched in the MAPK pathway. Based on shared and distinct alterations seen in HDCNs and the preceding lymphomas, both linear and divergent clonal evolutionary pathways were inferred. Furthermore, RNA sequencing performed in a subset of cases yielded new insights into markers that could be useful for more precise cell lineage identification. The panel has thus proposed an updated algorithm for HDCN lineage assignment. The outcome of transdifferentiated HDCNs was poor, but the MAPK signaling pathway emerges as a potentially attractive therapeutic target.CONCLUSIONS: Transdifferentiated HDCNs demonstrate heterogeneity and pose diagnostic challenges with regard to exact classification, but the in-depth characterization of the submitted cases have added to our understanding of the secondary HDCNs transdifferentiated from B-cell lymphoma/leukemia. Continuous efforts focusing on deciphering the specific cell lineage and differentiation state of these tumors will be critical for their accurate classification. Comprehensive molecular characterization of HDCNs may be informative in this regard. With the list of novel pharmacologic inhibitors of the MAPK pathway continuing to expand, improved outcomes for HDCN can be expected.
CD8+ T cells are crucial for the clearance of viral infections. During the acute phase, proinflammatory conditions increase the amount of circulating phosphatidylserine+ (PS) extracellular vesicles (EVs). These EVs interact especially with CD8+ T cells; however, it remains unclear whether they can actively modulate CD8+ T cell responses. In this study, we have developed a method to analyze cell-bound PS+ EVs and their target cells in vivo. We show that EV+ cell abundance increases during viral infection and that EVs preferentially bind to activated, but not naive, CD8+ T cells. Superresolution imaging revealed that PS+ EVs attach to clusters of CD8 molecules on the T cell surface. Furthermore, EV-binding induces antigen (Ag)-specific TCR signaling and increased nuclear translocation of the transcription factor Nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFATc1) in vivo. EV-decorated but not EV-free CD8+ T cells are enriched for gene signatures associated with T-cell receptor signaling, early effector differentiation, and proliferation. Our data thus demonstrate that PS+ EVs provide Ag-specific adjuvant effects to activated CD8+ T cells in vivo.
OBJECTIVE: We investigated the prognostic value of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) in a true population-based cohort of patients with colon cancer.METHODS: 1. Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was used to retrospectively analyse the expression of CDK5 in colon cancer tissue samples of 296 patients. The χ2 test, Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional regression model were used to analyse the difference between the patients with differential expression of CDK5 and with different stages (metastatic and nonmetastatic); 2. The number of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in tumour sections was determined, and its relationship with prognosis was explored.RESULTS: 1. Among 296 patients stained for CDK5, 18 cases (6.09%) showed negative expression, 77 cases (26.01%) showed weak expression (+1), 124 cases (41.89%) showed medium positive expression (2+), and 77 cases (26.01%) showed strong positive expression (3+). The expression of CDK5 was neither related to mismatch repair nor TILs (p > .05). In non-metastatic patients, longer progression-free survival (PFS) and cancer-specific survival (CSS) were observed in patients with high CDK5 expression (2+ or 3+) than low CDK5 expression (- or 1+), while in metastatic disease, the opposite was true (p < .001). 2. TILs in 226 patients were detected in the study. Among them, 115 cases (50.88%) showed a low number of TILs (TILs-L), and 111 cases (49.12%) showed a high number of TILs (TILs-H). Patients with a TIL ratio greater than .2 had a significantly better CSS (p < .001) or PFS (p = .008) than patients with a lower TIL ratio. By multivariate analysis, TILs-H was a protective factor for CSS, however failed to reach a significant difference (hazard ratio: .59, 95% CI: .33∼1.06, p = .079), and so was the PFS (HR: .65, 95% CI: .29∼1.43, p = .279).CONCLUSION: High expression of CDK5 indicates a good prognosis in nonmetastatic colon cancer, while it is the opposite in metastatic colon cancer, and the expression of CDK5 is unrelated to TILs. Patients with TIL-H have a better prognosis, with a proper cut-off value of 20% for colon cancer.
Acute and chronic viral infections result in the differentiation of effector and exhausted T cells with functional and phenotypic differences that dictate whether the infection is cleared or progresses to chronicity. High CD38 expression has been observed on CD8+ T cells across various viral infections and tumors in patients, suggesting an important regulatory function for CD38 on responding T cells. Here, we show that CD38 expression was increased and sustained on exhausted CD8+ T cells following chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection, with lower levels observed on T cells from acute LCMV infection. We uncovered a cell-intrinsic role for CD38 expression in regulating the survival of effector and exhausted CD8+ T cells. We observed increased proliferation and function of Cd38-/- CD8+ progenitor exhausted T cells compared to those of wild-type (WT) cells. Furthermore, decreased oxidative phosphorylation and glycolytic potential were observed in Cd38-/- CD8+ T cells during chronic but not acute LCMV infection. Our studies reveal that CD38 has a dual cell-intrinsic function in CD8+ T cells, where it decreases proliferation and function yet supports their survival and metabolism. These findings show that CD38 is not only a marker of T cell activation but also has regulatory functions on effector and exhausted CD8+ T cells. IMPORTANCE Our study shows how CD38 expression is regulated on CD8+ T cells responding during acute and chronic viral infection. We observed higher CD38 levels on CD8+ T cells during chronic viral infection compared to levels during acute viral infection. Deleting CD38 had an important cell-intrinsic function in ensuring the survival of virus-specific CD8+ T cells throughout the course of viral infection. We found defective metabolism in Cd38-/- CD8+ T cells arising during chronic infection and changes in their progenitor T cell phenotype. Our studies revealed a dual cell-intrinsic role for CD38 in limiting proliferation and granzyme B production in virus-specific exhausted T cells while also promoting their survival. These data highlight new avenues for research into the mechanisms through which CD38 regulates the survival and metabolism of CD8+ T cell responses to viral infections.
Update of    bioRxiv. 2023 Feb 15;:
BACKGROUND: Dozens of transplants generated from pluripotent stem cells are currently in clinical trials. The creation of patient-specific iPSCs makes personalized therapy possible due to their main advantage of immunotolerance. However, some reports have claimed recently that aberrant gene expression followed by proteome alterations and neoantigen formation can result in iPSCs recognition by autologous T-cells. Meanwhile, the possibility of NK-cell activation has not been previously considered. This study focused on the comparison of autologous and allogeneic immune response to iPSC-derived cells and isogeneic parental somatic cells used for reprogramming.METHODS: We established an isogeneic cell model consisting of parental dermal fibroblasts, fibroblast-like iPSC-derivatives (iPS-fibro) and iPS-fibro lacking beta-2-microglobulin (B2M). Using the cells obtained from two patients, we analyzed the activation of autologous and allogeneic T-lymphocytes and NK-cells co-cultured with target cells.RESULTS: Here we report that cells differentiated from iPSCs can be recognized by NK-cells rather than by autologous T-cells. We observed that iPS-fibro elicited a high level of NK-cell degranulation and cytotoxicity, while isogeneic parental skin fibroblasts used to obtain iPSCs barely triggered an NK-cell response. iPSC-derivatives with B2M knockout did not cause an additional increase in NK-cell activation, although they were devoid of HLA-I, the major inhibitory molecules for NK-cells. Transcriptome analysis revealed a significant imbalance of ligands for activating and inhibitory NK-cell receptors in iPS-fibro. Compared to parental fibroblasts, iPSC-derivatives had a reduced expression of HLA-I simultaneously with an increased gene expression of major activating ligands, such as MICA, NECTIN2, and PVR. The lack of inhibitory signals might be due to insufficient maturity of cells differentiated from iPSCs. In addition, we showed that pretreatment of iPS-fibro with proinflammatory cytokine IFNγ restored the ligand imbalance, thereby reducing the degranulation and cytotoxicity of NK-cells.CONCLUSION: In summary, we showed that iPSC-derived cells can be sensitive to the cytotoxic potential of autologous NK-cells regardless of HLA-I status. Thus, the balance of ligands for NK-cell receptors should be considered prior to iPSC-based cell therapies. Trial registration Not applicable.
Comment in    Nat Cancer. 2023 Apr;4(4):444-446.
Among the subset of T helper cells, Th17 cells are known to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of various autoimmune disorders, such as psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, steroid-resistant asthma, and multiple sclerosis. The master transcription factor retinoid-related orphan receptor gamma t (RORγt), a nuclear hormone receptor, plays a vital role in inducing Th17-cell differentiation. Recent findings suggest that metabolic control is critical for Th17-cell differentiation, particularly through the engagement of de novo lipid biosynthesis. Inhibition of lipid biosynthesis, either through the use of pharmacological inhibitors or by the deficiency of related enzymes in CD4+ T cells, results in significant suppression of Th17-cell differentiation. Mechanistic studies indicate that metabolic fluxes through both the fatty acid and cholesterol biosynthetic pathways are essential for controlling RORγt activity through the generation of a lipid ligand of RORγt. This review highlights recent findings that underscore the significant role of lipid metabolism in the differentiation and function of Th17 cells, as well as elucidating the distinctive molecular pathways that drive the activation of RORγt by cellular lipid metabolism. We further elaborate on a pioneering therapeutic approach for ameliorating autoimmune disorders via the inhibition of RORγt.
Over 150,000 Americans are diagnosed with colorectal cancer (CRC) every year, and annually >50,000 individuals will die of CRC, necessitating improvements in screening, prognostication, disease management, and therapeutic options. CRC tumors are removed en bloc with surrounding vasculature and lymphatics. Examination of regional lymph nodes at the time of surgical resection is essential for prognostication. Developing alternative approaches to indirectly assess recurrence risk would have utility in cases where lymph node yield is incomplete or inadequate. Spatially dependent, immune cell-specific (eg, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes), proteomic, and transcriptomic expression patterns inside and around the tumor-the tumor immune microenvironment-can predict nodal/distant metastasis and probe the coordinated immune response from the primary tumor site. The comprehensive characterization of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and other immune infiltrates is possible using highly multiplexed spatial omics technologies, such as the GeoMX Digital Spatial Profiler. In this study, machine learning and differential co-expression analyses helped identify biomarkers from Digital Spatial Profiler-assayed protein expression patterns inside, at the invasive margin, and away from the tumor, associated with extracellular matrix remodeling (eg, GZMB and fibronectin), immune suppression (eg, FOXP3), exhaustion and cytotoxicity (eg, CD8), PD-L1-expressing dendritic cells, and neutrophil proliferation, among other concomitant alterations. Further investigation of these biomarkers may reveal independent risk factors of CRC metastasis that can be formulated into low-cost, widely available assays.
Liver metastasis is the leading cause of death in colorectal cancer. Immunotherapy using immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) is ineffective due to its immunological cold tumor nature. Herein, we prepared a nanodrug (NCG) encapsulating the transforming growth factor-β receptor inhibitor galunisertib (Gal) and the sonosensitizer chlorin e6 (Ce6), which was aimed to turn this type of cold tumor into a hot one to promote the ICB-based immunotherapy against it. After delivery to the tumor, NCG under ultrasonic irradiation generated reactive oxygen species causing tumor immunogenic cell death and releasing immunostimulatory signals such as calreticulin and HMGB1, which increased tumor immunogenicity and activated the innate T lymphocyte immune response. Moreover, NCG responded to the acidic microenvironment and released Gal, inhibiting phosphorylation and inducing immunosuppressive Smad2/3 signaling. Consequently, the differentiation of MDSCs was inhibited, M1-like polarization of tumor-associated macrophages was induced, and the immunosuppressive barrier of tumor-associated fibroblasts was destroyed to increase the infiltration of effector T cells, which reversed the immunosuppression of the tumor microenvironment and improved the therapeutic efficacy of anti-PD-L1 antibodies. Notably, in the liver metastasis mouse model, combination therapy using NCG (+) and aPD-L1 inhibited the growth of colon cancer liver metastasis, manifesting potential in treating this popular yet intractable malignancy. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Only a limited number of patients with colorectal cancer and liver metastasis can benefit from immune checkpoint blockade therapy, as most of them are microsatellite stable, immunologically cold tumors. Interestingly, there is compelling evidence that sonodynamic therapy (SDT) can convert immunosuppressed cold tumors into hot ones, trigger tumor immunogenic cell death non-invasively, and boost cytotoxic T cells infiltration. However, its therapeutic efficacy is constrained by the abundance of transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) cytokines in the tumor microenvironment. Here, we reported a TGF-β-targeted inhibitory nanodrug that improved SDT in colon cancer and liver metastasis, reversed the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and boosted the immune response to anti-PD-L1 therapy in this cancer. It demonstrated the potential to cure this prevalent but incurable malignancy.
Phototherapy can trigger immunogenic cell death of tumors in situ, whereas it is virtually impossible to eradicate the tumor due to the intrinsic resistance and inefficient anti-tumor immunity. To overcome these limitations, novel bimetallic infinite coordination nanopolymers (TA-Fe/Mn-OVA@MB NPs) were synthesized using model antigen ovalbumin (OVA) as a template to assemble tannic acid (TA) and bi-metal, supplemented with methylene blue (MB) surface absorption. The formulated TA-Fe/Mn-OVA@MB NPs possess excellent photothermal and photodynamic therapy (PTT/PDT) performance, which is adequate to destroy tumor cells by physical and chemical attack. Especially, these TA-Fe/Mn-OVA@MB NPs are capability of promoting the dendritic cells (DCs) maturation and antigen presentation via manganese-mediated cGAS-STING pathway activation, finally activating cytotoxicity T lymphocyte and promoting memory T lymphocyte differentiation in the peripheral lymphoid organs. In conclusion, this research offers a versatile metal-polyphenol nanoplatform to integrate functional metals and therapeutic molecule for topical phototherapy and robust anti-tumor immune activation.
BACKGROUND: Disruption of intestinal barrier function and an imbalance in intestinal immunity are crucial for the occurrence and development of ulcerative colitis. Because of their important roles in regulating inflammation and immunity, exosomes (Exos) released from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) may be useful for treating ulcerative colitis. The EphB/EphrinB signaling pathway plays a crucial role in the inflammatory process and the development and function of immune cells, and can mediate long-distance intercellular communication through extracellular vesicles. This study was conducted to explore the effects of pre-modified BMSC-Exos expressing EphB2 (EphB2-Exos) on immunoregulation in vitro.METHODS: We transfected a lentivirus vector encoding EphB2 into BMSCs and isolated EphB2-Exos from the culture supernatant. Inflammation and oxidative damage in the human colon adenocarcinoma cell line (Caco-2) were induced by dextran sulfate sodium/hydrogen peroxide. In addition, spleen CD4+ T lymphocytes of rats were sorted in vitro. We conducted a series of experiments to explore the biological functions of EphB2-Exos.RESULTS: EphB2-Exos were successfully isolated and were found to significantly protect the activity, proliferation, and migration of Caco-2 cells that were inhibited by dextran sulfate sodium. EphB2-Exos alleviated inflammation and apoptosis and increased the activity of antioxidant enzymes while inhibiting oxidative stress in Caco-2 cells. EphB2-Exos restored intestinal barrier function by inhibiting the RhoA/ROCK pathway and regulated the polarization of CD4+T cells.CONCLUSION: EphB2-Exos enhanced intestinal barrier function and regulated the immune balance by inhibiting the RhoA/ROCK pathway in vitro. These findings suggest that EphB2-Exos can be applied as a cell-free therapy for ulcerative colitis.
BACKGROUND: Despite the invasiveness of the Hepatitis B infection, its vaccines are only formulated with FDA-approved alum-based adjuvants, which poorly elicit a lasting immune response, hence the need for a more effective adjuvant system. This study evaluated the immunogenicity and toxicity of eggshell membranes (ESM) when administered as an adjuvant for the recombinant HBV vaccine (rHBsAg) in albino mice. Differential white blood cell analysis, as well as the titer measurement of Immunoglobulin G, subclass G1 and G2a on indirect ELISA, was performed to measure the immune-modulatory potentials of ESM. Moreover, analysis of the liver marker enzyme (AST and ALT) and body/liver weights was performed to ascertain the toxicity level of ESM. Finally, Immuno-informatic analysis was used to investigate the immune-modulatory potential of individual member proteins of ESM.RESULTS: Our results showed a significant improvement in the experimental group's lymphocyte count after boost-dose administration compared to the controls, whereas there was no significant change in the granulocyte population. Furthermore, the formulations (ESM-rHBsAg) significantly improved IgG and IgG1 titers after each successive immunization. Body/liver weight and liver function showed ESM non-toxic to mice. The immunoinformatic analysis discovered ovalbumin, lysozyme-C, and UFM-1 as the member proteins of ESM with immune-modulatory activities of activating antigen-presenting cells (APC).CONCLUSION: This study has provided a clue into the potential valorization of eggshell membranes and their peptides as an adjuvant for vaccines such as HBV. We recommend more in-depth molecular analysis to support our findings as well as foster real-life application.SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s43094-023-00481-5.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to elucidate the prognostic value of preoperative lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (LMR) after primary surgery in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients using a propensity score matching (PSM) analysis.METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed consecutive EOC patients who underwent primary surgery between January 2008 and December 2019. Patients were divided into two groups according to the optimal cutoff value of preoperative LMR. PSM (1:1) was conducted to eliminate confounding factors. A Cox proportional hazards model and the Kaplan-Meier estimator were employed to investigate the potential prognostic factors.RESULTS: A total of 368 EOC patients were included in this study. The optimal cutoff value of LMR was identified as 4.65. Low preoperative LMR was significantly correlated with low albumin, high CA125 level, more blood loss, a high likelihood of ascites, advanced FIGO stage, and poor differentiation (all p < 0.05). After matching, Kaplan-Meier curves showed that the group with LMR < 4.65 experienced significantly shorter OS (p = 0.015). Multivariate Cox analysis revealed that low LMR (HR = 1.49, p = 0.041), advanced FIGO stage (HR = 5.25, p < 0.001), and undefined residual disease (HR = 3.77, p = 0.002) were independent factors in predicting poor OS. A forest plot revealed that LMR had better prognostic value in younger EOC patients, patients with BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2 and albumin ≥ 35 g/L, CA125 ≥ 35 U/L, patients who had undergone optimal surgery, and those who had completed chemotherapy. Additionally, low-LMR patients who had undergone incomplete chemotherapy had a shorter median OS compared with those who completed chemotherapy treatment (48.5 vs. 105.9 months, p = 0.026).CONCLUSIONS: LMR could be used as an independent prognostic factor for EOC patients after primary surgery; a noticeable negative effect of LMR was observed among EOC patients with age < 65, good preoperative nutritional status, and more aggressive tumor biology, and among those who underwent optimal surgery. Completing adjuvant chemotherapy is essential to improve survival outcomes among EOC patients with LMR < 4.65 after surgery.
The immune system plays a significant role in multiple sclerosis. While MS was historically thought to be T cell-mediated, multiple pieces of evidence now support the view that B cells are essential players in multiple sclerosis pathogenic processes. High-efficacy disease-modifying therapies that target the immune system have emerged over the past two decades. Anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies selectively deplete CD20+ B and CD20+ T cells and efficiently suppress inflammatory disease activity. These monotherapies prevent relapses, reduce new or active magnetic resonance imaging brain lesions, and lessen disability progression in patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis. Rituximab, ocrelizumab, and ofatumumab are currently used in clinical practice, while phase III clinical trials for ublituximab have been recently completed. In this review, we compare the four anti-CD20 antibodies in terms of their mechanisms of action, routes of administration, immunological targets, and pharmacokinetic properties. A deeper understanding of the individual properties of these molecules in relation to their efficacy and safety profiles is critical for their use in clinical practice.
INTRODUCTION: A high frequency of mutations affecting the gene encoding Herpes Virus Entry Mediator (HVEM, TNFRSF14) is a common clinical finding in a wide variety of human tumors, including those of hematological origin.METHODS: We have addressed how HVEM expression on A20 leukemia cells influences tumor survival and its involvement in the modulation of the anti-tumor immune responses in a parental into F1 mouse tumor model of hybrid resistance by knocking-out HVEM expression. HVEM WT or HVEM KO leukemia cells were then injected intravenously into semiallogeneic F1 recipients and the extent of tumor dissemination was evaluated.RESULTS: The loss of HVEM expression on A20 leukemia cells led to a significant increase of lymphoid and myeloid tumor cell infiltration curbing tumor progression. NK cells and to a lesser extent NKT cells and monocytes were the predominant innate populations contributing to the global increase of immune infiltrates in HVEM KO tumors compared to that present in HVEM KO tumors. In the overall increase of the adaptive T cell immune infiltrates, the stem cell-like PD-1- T cells progenitors and the effector T cell populations derived from them were more prominently present than terminally differentiated PD-1+ T cells.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the PD-1- T cell subpopulation is likely to be a more relevant contributor to tumor rejection than the PD-1+ T cell subpopulation. These findings highlight the role of co-inhibitory signals delivered by HVEM upon engagement of BTLA on T cells and NK cells, placing HVEM/BTLA interaction in the spotlight as a novel immune checkpoint for the reinforcement of the anti-tumor responses in malignancies of hematopoietic origin.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100730, China.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Cunila spicata Benth. Is a creeping and aromatic plant that has an ethnopharmacological indication in the southern region of Brazil, in the Araucaria Forest biome. It's used as an alternative therapy for respiratory diseases for men and animals since the "tropeirista" movement in colonial Brazil.AIM OF THE STUDY: Investigate the influence of oral administration of hydroalcoholic extract of C. spicata (HECS) on cellular inflammatory processes in the airways of mice.MATERIAL AND METHODS: The HECS was obtained by the ultrasound-assisted technique. Phytochemical analysis of the volatile compounds was performed using gas-chromatography with mass spectrometry. To investigate the biological activity of HECS, the animals were pre-treated with HECS orally 1 h before and the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) model was used, in which the animals were subjected to inhalation of different pro-inflammatory agents such as carrageenan (CAR), histamine (HIST), capsaicin (CAP), bradykinin (BK), and 48/80 compound (C48/80). After sacrifice, BAL sample was collected from the bronchi and was analyzed for total and differential white blood cell counts, compared with control groups.RESULTS: Fourteen volatile phytocompounds were identified in the HECS, the main ones being 2-bornanone, menthofuran and camphene. Among the HECS treated animals, all showed significant maximal inhibition (MI) when challenged with pro-inflammatory agents by nebulization. In the group of animals that received CAR, the MI was 72.77 ± 3.88%, compared to the negative control (NC). There was a predominance of lymphocytes (59.18 ± 4.07%). For the HIST group, MI was 64.03 ± 4.33%, in relation to the NC, with predominance in macrophages number (76.53 ± 2.78%). In the CAP group, the MI obtained was 38.90 ± 11.31%, with greater macrophage migration occurring (80.98 ± 3.44%) in the higher dose. For animals subjected to BK inhalation, the MI was 48.63 ± 3.95% with macrophages predominance (64.33 ± 10.04%). In the group that received C48/80 inhalation, the MI was 40.25 ± 5.30% (100 mg kg-1), with higher occurrence of macrophages (72.97 ± 4.23%).CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that HECS had a non-specific inhibitory effect on cellular migration induced by different pro-inflammatory agents, reducing inflammation in airways of mice. These effects coincide and support its ethnopharmacological use as an alternative medicine for respiratory diseases in regions where the plant is prevalent.
Bee venom (BV) showed therapeutical effects to treat various diseases as it contains at least 18 pharmacologically active components including various enzymes, peptides, and amines. This study aimed to evaluate the action of BV on some hematological parameters, humoral and cellular immunity, and the determination of antioxidant levels in male albino rats. The study included 40 male albino rats (190-210 g), divided into four groups. Three groups were injected subcutaneously with three different doses of BV (2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg, respectively). The control group was injected with saline solution. Blood samples were obtained to measure total leucocytes count (TLC), differential leukocytes count, hematological parameters (hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit (HCT), red blood cells (RBCs), mean cell volume (MCV), mean cell hemoglobin (MCH), mean cell hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) and Platelets. Sera were used to assess immunoglobulins (IgM, IgG, IgA, and IgE), some cytokines e.g., tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), tumor growth factor beta (TGF-β), interleukins 6 and 10 (IL-6, IL-10), and some antioxidant levels malondialdehyde (MDA), super oxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione (GSH). Data showed that BV therapy increased antibody production levels (IgM, IgG, and IgA) while decreasing IgE levels. Hematological markers (Hb and lymphocytes) were increased. BV increased total TGF- β and IL-10 but decreased total TNF- α and IL-6. On the antioxidant scale, an increase in SOD, CAT, and GSH levels was observed, accompanied by a decrease in MDA levels. However, the BV treatment led to a significant reduction in the number of eosinophils, monocytes, and neutrophils (p < 0.05). In conclusion, our findings suggested that BV may be utilized to increase the effectiveness of various immunological and hematological parameters.
Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), two immunosuppressive myeloid components within the tumor microenvironment (TME), represent fundamental barriers in cancer immunotherapy, whereas current nanomedicines rarely exert dual modulatory roles on these cell types simultaneously. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) not only mediates MDSC-induced immunosuppression but also triggers differentiation and polarization of M2-TAMs. Herein, an ROS scavenging nanozyme, Zr-CeO, with enhanced superoxide dismutase- and catalase-like activities for renal tumor growth inhibition is reported. Mechanistically, intracellular ROS scavenging by Zr-CeO significantly attenuates MDSC immunosuppression via dampening the unfolded protein response, hinders M2-TAM polarization through the ERK and STAT3 pathways, but barely affects neoplastic cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts. Furthermore, Zr-CeO enhances the antitumor effect of PD-1 inhibition in murine renal and breast tumor models, accompanied with substantially decreased MDSC recruitment and reprogrammed phenotype of TAMs in the tumor mass. Upon cell isolation, reversed immunosuppressive phenotypes of MDSCs and TAMs are identified. In addition, Zr-CeO alone or combination therapy enhances T lymphocyte infiltration and IFN-γ production within the TME. Collectively, a promising strategy to impair the quantity and function of immunosuppressive myeloid cells and sensitize immunotherapy in both renal and breast cancers is provided.
BACKGROUNDS AND AIMS: Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists have been developed as adjuvants to efficiently induce antiviral immune responses. Specificity and potency of these compounds are essential requirements for clinical trial applications. In patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections, sustained loss of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) is a therapeutic goal, which may be achievable by the sequential activation of follicular helper T cells (Tfh) and antibody-secreting B cells. We aimed to elucidate whether novel TLR7 agonist, GS-986, could activate immune responses involved in HBV elimination.METHODS: To clarify the impact of GS-986 on pDCs, we quantified the expression levels of surface markers and evaluated for Tfh induction in a culture model consisting of human pDCs with allogeneic naïve CD4+ T cells. In addition, we examined whether GS-986 could enhance HBs antibody production capacity using PBMC from CHB patients.RESULTS: pDCs from CHB patients had lower OX40L expression and as well as impaired capacity for Tfh induction compared with those from healthy donors. However, GS-986-stimulated pDCs from CHB patients expressed OX40L and produced IL-6 and IL-12, resulting in the induction of IL-21-producing Tfh cells (CXCR5+ PD-1+ CD4+ ) from naïve CD4+ T cells. The Tfh-inducing capacity of GS-986 was reduced in the presence of an anti-OX40L blocking antibody. Furthermore, GS-986 promoted HBsAg-specific antibody production in PBMCs from CHB patients.CONCLUSIONS: GS-986 is an adjuvant that stimulates pDCs to induce Tfh differentiation and antigen-specific B-cell production. This immune profile may be beneficial for therapeutic application as an immune modulator in CHB patients.
BACKGROUND: Primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is characterized for the skewed Th differentiation towards Th1 and Th17 cells as well as the impaired number and function of regulatory T cells (Tregs). Tregs are capable of co-expressing effector Th markers in different inflammatory milieu, which probably indicates Treg dysfunction and incompetence to counter over-activated immune responses.METHODS: Ninety-two primary ITP patients from March 2013 to December 2018 were included, and proinflammatory plasticity in different Treg compartments, age groups, and TGFBR2 variant carrier status were investigated.RESULTS: Patients were categorized into elderly (n = 44) and younger (n = 48) groups according to an age of 50 years at disease onset. The overall remission rate was 82.6% after first-line regimens, including 47.8% complete remission. TGFBR2 variants were found in 7 (7.6%) patients with three V216I and four T340M heterozygote carriers. ITP patients demonstrated elevated co-expression of IL-17 and decreased co-expression of both IFN-γ and IL-13 than health control (all p < 0.01). The elderly group demonstrated elevated prevalence of TGFBR2 variants (p = 0.037) and elevated co-expression of IL-17 (p = 0.017) in Tregs, while female predominance was found in the younger group (p = 0.037). In the elderly group, TGFBR2 variant carriers demonstrated further elevated co-expression of IL-17 (p = 0.023) and decreased co-expression of both IFN-γ (p = 0.039) and IL-13 (p = 0.046) in the aTreg compartment.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings revealed additional aberrations of Treg proinflammatory plasticity in elderly primary ITP patients, and highlighted the potential role of Treg dysfunction and senescence in the pathogenesis and management among these patients.
BACKGROUND: The survival benefit of adjuvant transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) in patients with hepatectomy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after hepatectomy remains controversial. We aimed to investigate the survival efficacy of adjuvant TACE after hepatectomy for HCC.METHODS: 1491 patients with HCC who underwent hepatectomy between January 2018 and September 2021 at four medical centers in China were retrospectively analyzed, including 782 patients who received adjuvant TACE and 709 patients who did not receive adjuvant TACE. Propensity score matching (PSM) (1:1) was performed to minimize selection bias, which balanced the clinical characteristics of the two groups.RESULTS: A total of 1254 patients were enrolled after PSM, including 627 patients who received adjuvant TACE and 627 patients who did not receive adjuvant TACE. Patients who received adjuvant TACE had higher disease-free survival (DFS, 1- ,2-, and 3-year: 78%-68%-62% vs. 69%-57%-50%, p < 0.001) and overall survival (OS, 1- ,2-, and 3-year: 96%-88%-80% vs. 90%-77%-66%, p < 0.001) than those who did not receive adjuvant TACE (Median DFS was 39 months). Among the different levels of risk factors affecting prognosis [AFP, Lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio, Maximum tumor diameter, Number of tumors, Child-Pugh classification, Liver cirrhosis, Vascular invasion (imaging), Microvascular invasion, Satellite nodules, Differentiation, Chinese liver cancer stage II-IIIa], the majority of patients who received adjuvant TACE had higher DFS or OS than those who did not receive adjuvant TACE. More patients who received adjuvant TACE accepted subsequent antitumor therapy such as liver transplantation, re-hepatectomy and local ablation after tumor recurrence, while more patients who did not receive adjuvant TACE accepted subsequent antitumor therapy with TACE after tumor recurrence (All p < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant TACE may be a potential way to monitor early tumor recurrence and improve postoperative survival in patients with HCC.
Cellular metabolic dysregulation is a consequence of SARS-CoV-2 infection that is a key determinant of disease severity. However, how metabolic perturbations influence immunological function during COVID-19 remains unclear. Here, using a combination of high-dimensional flow cytometry, cutting-edge single-cell metabolomics, and re-analysis of single-cell transcriptomic data, we demonstrate a global hypoxia-linked metabolic switch from fatty acid oxidation and mitochondrial respiration towards anaerobic, glucose-dependent metabolism in CD8+Tc, NKT, and epithelial cells. Consequently, we found that a strong dysregulation in immunometabolism was tied to increased cellular exhaustion, attenuated effector function, and impaired memory differentiation. Pharmacological inhibition of mitophagy with mdivi-1 reduced excess glucose metabolism, resulting in enhanced generation of SARS-CoV-2- specific CD8+Tc, increased cytokine secretion, and augmented memory cell proliferation. Taken together, our study provides critical insight regarding the cellular mechanisms underlying the effect of SARS-CoV-2 infection on host immune cell metabolism, and highlights immunometabolism as a promising therapeutic target for COVID-19 treatment.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) recurrence following liver transplantation (LT) is highly morbid and occurs despite strict patient selection criteria. Individualized prediction of post-LT HCC recurrence risk remains an important need.METHODS: Clinico-radiologic and pathologic data of 4981 patients with HCC undergoing LT from the United States Multicenter HCC Transplant Consortium (UMHTC) were analyzed to develop a REcurrent Liver cAncer Prediction ScorE (RELAPSE). Multivariable Fine and Gray competing risk analysis and machine learning algorithms (MLA; Random Survival Forest [RSF] and Classification and Regression Tree (CART) models) identified variables to model HCC recurrence. RELAPSE was externally validated in 1160 HCC LT recipients from the European Hepatocellular Cancer Liver Transplant (EurHeCaLT) study group.RESULTS: Of 4981 UMHTC patients with HCC undergoing LT, 71.9% were within Milan criteria (MC), 16.1% were initially beyond MC with 9.4% downstaged prior to LT, and 12.0% had incidental HCC on explant pathology. Overall and recurrence-free survival at 1-, 3-, and 5-years was 89.7%, 78.6%, 69.8% and 86.8%, 74.9%, 66.7%, respectively, with a 5-year incidence of HCC recurrence of 12.5% (median 16 mo) and non-HCC mortality of 20.8%. A multivariable model identified maximum AFP (HR = 1.35 per-log SD, 95%-CI:1.22-1.50, p < 0.001), neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (HR = 1.16 per-log SD, 95%-CI:1.04-1.28, p < 0.006), pathologic maximum tumor diameter (HR = 1.53 per-log SD, 95%-CI 1.35-1.73, p < 0.001), microvascular (HR = 2.37, 95%-CI:1.87-2.99, p < 0.001) and macrovascular (HR = 3.38, 95%-CI:2.41-4.75, p < 0.001) invasion, and tumor differentiation (moderate HR = 1.75, 95%-CI:1.29-2.37, p < 0.001; poor HR = 2.62, 95%-CI:1.54-3.32, p < 0.001) as independent variables predicting post-LT HCC recurrence (C-statistic = 0.78). MLAs incorporating additional covariates improved prediction of recurrence (RSF C-statistic = 0.81). Despite significant differences in EurHeCaLT recipient radiologic, treatment, and pathologic characteristics, external validation of RELAPSE demonstrated consistent 2 and 5-year recurrence risk discrimination (AUC 0.77 and 0.75, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: We develop and externally validate a RELAPSE score which accurately discriminates post-LT HCC recurrence risk, and may allow for individualized post-LT surveillance, immunosuppression modification, and selection of high-risk patients for adjuvant therapies.
Single-cell technologies have revealed the extensive heterogeneity and complexity of the immune system. Systems biology approaches in immunology have taken advantage of the high-parameter, high-throughput data and analyzed immune cell types in a 'bottom-up' data-driven method. This approach has discovered previously unrecognized cell types and functions. Especially for human immunology, in which experimental manipulations are challenging, systems approach has become a successful means to investigate physiologically relevant contexts. This review focuses on the recent findings in lymphocyte biology, from their development, differentiation into subsets, and heterogeneity in their functions, enabled by these systems approaches. Furthermore, we review examples of the application of findings from systems approach studies and discuss how now to leave the rich dataset in the curse of high dimensionality.
Recurrent disease emerges in the majority of patients with ovarian cancer (OVCA). Adoptive T-cell therapies with T-cell receptors (TCRs) targeting tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) are considered promising solutions for less-immunogenic 'cold' ovarian tumors. In order to treat a broader patient population, more TCRs targeting peptides derived from different TAAs binding in various HLA class I molecules are essential. By performing a differential gene expression analysis using mRNA-seq datasets, PRAME, CTCFL and CLDN6 were selected as strictly tumor-specific TAAs, with high expression in ovarian cancer and at least 20-fold lower expression in all healthy tissues of risk. In primary OVCA patient samples and cell lines we confirmed expression and identified naturally expressed TAA-derived peptides in the HLA class I ligandome. Subsequently, high-avidity T-cell clones recognizing these peptides were isolated from the allo-HLA T-cell repertoire of healthy individuals. Three PRAME TCRs and one CTCFL TCR of the most promising T-cell clones were sequenced, and transferred to CD8+ T cells. The PRAME TCR-T cells demonstrated potent and specific antitumor reactivity in vitro and in vivo. The CTCFL TCR-T cells efficiently recognized primary patient-derived OVCA cells, and OVCA cell lines treated with demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC). The identified PRAME and CTCFL TCRs are promising candidates for the treatment of patients with ovarian cancer, and are an essential addition to the currently used HLA-A*02:01 restricted PRAME TCRs. Our selection of differentially expressed genes, naturally expressed TAA peptides and potent TCRs can improve and broaden the use of T-cell therapies for patients with ovarian cancer or other PRAME or CTCFL expressing cancers.
The immunocytokine PD1-IL2v was designed to overcome liabilities and improve efficacy of IL-2 therapies. PD1-IL2v preferentially targets PD-1+ T-cells and acts on antigen-specific stem-like PD-1+ TCF-1+ CD8+ T-cells expanding and differentiating them towards better effectors resulting in superior efficacy in LCMV chronic infection and tumor models compared to checkpoint inhibition.
BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic auto-immune, inflammatory, and degenerative disease of the central nervous system, affects both males and females; however, females suffer from a higher risk of developing MS (2-3:1 ratio relative to males). The precise sex-based factors influencing risk of MS are currently unknown. Here, we explore the role of sex in MS to identify molecular mechanisms underlying observed MS sex differences that may guide novel therapeutic approaches tailored for males or females.METHODS: We performed a rigorous and systematic review of genome-wide transcriptome studies of MS that included patient sex data in the Gene Expression Omnibus and ArrayExpress databases following PRISMA statement guidelines. For each selected study, we analyzed differential gene expression to explore the impact of the disease in females (IDF), in males (IDM) and our main goal: the sex differential impact of the disease (SDID). Then, for each scenario (IDF, IDM and SDID) we performed 2 meta-analyses in the main tissues involved in the disease (brain and blood). Finally, we performed a gene set analysis in brain tissue, in which a higher number of genes were dysregulated, to characterize sex differences in biological pathways.RESULTS: After screening 122 publications, the systematic review provided a selection of 9 studies (5 in blood and 4 in brain tissue) with a total of 474 samples (189 females with MS and 109 control females; 82 males with MS and 94 control males). Blood and brain tissue meta-analyses identified, respectively, 1 (KIR2DL3) and 13 (ARL17B, CECR7, CEP78, IFFO2, LOC401127, NUDT18, RNF10, SLC17A5, STMP1, TRAF3IP2-AS1, UBXN2B, ZNF117, ZNF488) MS-associated genes that differed between males and females (SDID comparison). Functional analyses in the brain revealed different altered immune patterns in females and males (IDF and IDM comparisons). The pro-inflammatory environment and innate immune responses related to myeloid lineage appear to be more affected in females, while adaptive responses associated with the lymphocyte lineage in males. Additionally, females with MS displayed alterations in mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes, purine, and glutamate metabolism, while MS males displayed alterations in stress response to metal ion, amine, and amino acid transport.CONCLUSION: We found transcriptomic and functional differences between MS males and MS females (especially in the immune system), which may support the development of new sex-based research of this disease. Our study highlights the importance of understanding the role of biological sex in MS to guide a more personalized medicine.
In chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), epigenetic alterations are considered to centrally shape the transcriptional signatures that drive disease evolution and that underlie its biological and clinical subsets. Characterizations of epigenetic regulators, particularly histone-modifying enzymes, are very rudimentary in CLL. In efforts to establish effectors of the CLL-associated oncogene T-cell leukemia 1A (TCL1A), we identified here the lysine-specific histone demethylase KDM1A to interact with the TCL1A protein in B-cells in conjunction with an increased catalytic activity of KDM1A. We demonstrate that KDM1A is upregulated in malignant B-cells. Elevated KDM1A and associated gene expression signatures correlated with aggressive disease features and adverse clinical outcomes in a large prospective CLL trial cohort. Genetic Kdm1a knockdown (Kdm1a-KD) in Eμ-TCL1A mice reduced leukemic burden and prolonged animal survival, accompanied by upregulated p53 and pro-apoptotic pathways. Genetic KDM1A depletion also affected milieu components (T-, stromal, monocytic cells), resulting in significant reductions of their capacity to support CLL cell survival and proliferation. Integrated analyses of differential global transcriptomes (RNA-seq) and H3K4me3 marks (ChIP-seq) in Eµ-TCL1A vs. iKdm1aKD;Eµ-TCL1A mice (confirmed in human CLL) implicate KDM1A as an oncogenic transcriptional repressor in CLL by altering histone methylation patterns with pronounced effects on defined cell death and motility pathways. Finally, pharmacologic KDM1A inhibition altered H3K4/9 target methylation and revealed marked anti-B-cell-leukemic synergisms. Overall, we established the pathogenic role and effector networks of KDM1A in CLL, namely via tumor-cell intrinsic mechanisms and impacts in cells of the microenvironment. Our data also provide rationales to further investigate therapeutic KDM1A targeting in CLL.
Cancer is a significant cause of death, precluding increasing life expectancy worldwide. That is a multifactorial disease initiated by intrinsic or extrinsic factors that induce cell differentiation into cancer cells. However, cancer development, progression, and metastasis are not controlled only by cancer cells. The entire environment around these cells, named tumor microenvironment (TME), influences tumor development and spread. The tumor microenvironment is formed by cancer cells and heterogenous nonmalignant cells integrated with a complex extracellular matrix. The main cellular components of the TME are cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), T lymphocytes, B cells, tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), dendritic cells (DC), natural killer (NK) cells, tumor-associated neutrophils (TANs), Stem Cells, Endothelial Cells and their soluble secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) that modulate cancer cells to establish and disseminate. This review provides a recent insight into the role of EVs secreted from different populations of the TME associated with the initiation and progression of carcinoma.
A 54-year old patient with metastatic melanoma presented with asymptomatic myositis and myocarditis after combined immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) therapy (anti-programmed cell death receptor-1, anti-lymphocyte activating gene-3, and anti-indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase-1). The diagnosis was based on the typical time window after ICI, recurrence upon re-challenge, elevations of CK, high-sensitive troponin T (hs-TnT) and I (hs-TnI), mild NT-proBNP increase, and positive magnetic resonance imaging criteria. Notably, hsTnI was found to more rapidly increase and fall and to be more heart-specific than TnT in the context of ICI-related myocarditis. This led to ICI therapy withdrawal and switch to a less effective systemic therapy. This case report highlights the differential value of hs-TnT and hs-TnI for diagnosis and monitoring of ICI-related myositis and myocarditis.
One of the most proliferative periods for T cells occurs during their development in the thymus. Increased DNA replication can result in increased DNA mutations in the nuclear genome, but also in mitochondrial genomes. A high frequency of mitochondrial DNA mutations can lead to abnormal mitochondrial function and have negative implications on human health. Furthermore, aging is accompanied by an increase in such mutations through oxidative damage and replication errors. Increased mitochondrial DNA mutations cause loss of mitochondrial protein function, and decrease energy production, substrates, and metabolites. Here we have evaluated the effect of increased mitochondrial DNA mutations on T cell development in the thymus. Using mice carrying a mutant mitochondrial DNA polymerase γ (PolG) that causes increased mitochondrial DNA mutations, we show that high fidelity replication of mitochondrial DNA is pivotal for proper T cell development. Reducing the fidelity of mitochondrial DNA replication results in a premature age-dependent reduction in the total number of CD4/CD8 double negative and double positive thymocytes. Analysis of mitochondrial density in thymocyte subpopulations suggests that this may be due to reduced proliferation in specific double negative stages. Taken together, this work suggests that T cell development is regulated by the ability of mitochondria to faithfully replicate their DNA.
While allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is a potential curative therapy against hematological malignancies, modulation of donor T cell alloreactivity is required to enhance the graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect and control graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) after allo-HSCT. Donor-derived regulatory CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ T cells (Tregs) play a central role in establishing of immune tolerance after allo-HSCT. They could be a key target to be modulated for increasing the GVL effect and control of GVHD. We constructed an ordinary differential equation model incorporating bidirectional interactions between Tregs and effector CD4+ T cells (Teffs) as a mechanism for control of Treg cell concentration. The goal is to elucidate how the interaction between Tregs and Teffs is modulated in order to get insights into fine tuning of alloreactivity after allo-HSCT. The model was calibrated with respect to published Treg and Teff recovery data after allo-HSCT. The calibrated model exhibits perfect or near-perfect adaptation to stepwise perturbations between Treg and Teff interactions, as seen in Treg cell populations when patients with relapsed malignancy were treated with anti-CTLA-4 (cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4). In addition, the model predicts observed shifts of Tregs and Teffs concentrations after co-stimulatory receptor IL-2R or TNFR2 blockade with allo-HSCT. The present results suggest simultaneous blockades of co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory receptors as a potential treatment for enhancing the GVL effect after allo-HSCT without developing GVHD.
Tumor microenvironment (TME) plays an important role in the progression of cholangiocarcinoma. This study aims to explore whether Mucin 1 (MUC1) regulates Foxp3+ Treg cells in the TME of cholangiocarcinoma through the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway. High-throughput sequencing dataset in the GEO database combined with GeneCards and Phenolyzer databases was used to obtain key genes in cholangiocarcinoma, followed by downstream pathway prediction. The relationship among MUC1, EGFR, and PI3K/Akt signaling pathway was explored. CD4+ T cells extracted from peripheral blood were induced to differentiate into Treg cells, followed by co-culture with cholangiocarcinoma cells. A mouse model was constructed to detect the role of MUC1 in the accumulation of Foxp3+ Treg cells, malignant phenotypes of cholangiocarcinoma, and tumorigenesis in vivo. MUC1, highly expressed in cholangiocarcinoma, might be involved in cholangiocarcinoma development. MUC1 interacted with the EGFR to activate the EGFR/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. MUC1 overexpression could activate the EGFR/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway, which promoted the accumulation of Foxp3+ Treg cells in the TME and the malignant phenotypes of cholangiocarcinoma cells both in vitro and in vivo and enhanced tumorigenesis in vivo. MUC1 may interact with EGFR to activate the EGFR/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway, which induces the accumulation of Foxp3+ Treg cells, enhancing the malignant phenotypes of cholangiocarcinoma cells and tumorigenesis in vivo and ultimately augmenting cholangiocarcinoma growth and metastasis.
Following activation, CD4 T cells undergo metabolic and transcriptional changes as they respond to external cues and differentiate into T helper (Th) cells. T cells exhibit plasticity between Th phenotypes in highly inflammatory environments, such as colitis, in which high levels of IL-6 promote plasticity between regulatory T (Treg) cells and Th17 cells. Protein Kinase C theta (PKCθ) is a T cell-specific serine/threonine kinase that promotes Th17 differentiation while negatively regulating Treg differentiation. Liver kinase B1 (LKB1), also a serine/threonine kinase and encoded by Stk11, is necessary for Treg survival and function. Stk11 can be alternatively spliced to produce a short variant (Stk11S) by transcribing a cryptic exon. However, the contribution of Stk11 splice variants to Th cell differentiation has not been previously explored. Here we show that in Th17 cells, the heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein, hnRNPLL, mediates Stk11 splicing into its short splice variant, and that Stk11S expression is diminished when Hnrnpll is depleted using siRNA knock-down approaches. We further show that PKCθ regulates hnRNPLL and, thus, Stk11S expression in Th17 cells. We provide additional evidence that exposing induced (i)Tregs to IL-6 culminates in Stk11 splicing downstream of PKCθAltogether our data reveal a yet undescribed outside-in signaling pathway initiated by IL-6, that acts through PKCθ and hnRNPLL to regulate Stk11 splice variants and facilitate Th17 cell differentiation. Furthermore, we show for the first time, that this pathway can also be initiated in developing iTregs exposed to IL-6, providing mechanistic insight into iTreg phenotypic stability and iTreg to Th17 cell plasticity.
Proliferative tenosynovitis (PT) is an inflammatory and proliferative disorder of the synovial membrane of the tendon sheath that is rare in animals. The histological alterations are characterized by multinodular neovascularization, with infiltration of histiocytic and multinucleated giant cells and haemosiderin deposition. We reviewed necropsy and biopsy records of horses submitted to the Setor de Anatomia Patológica of the Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro from January 2017 to December 2020 to select cases of PT. We identified PT in three adult Brazilian Mangalarga Marchador horses with nodular lesions on the metacarpophalangeal, metatarsophalangeal or carpal joints. The three horses were under 6 years of age and presented with lameness and pain on palpation. There were recurrences in two horses after surgical removal. Radiographic and ultrasound examinations detected masses in the flexor or extensor tendons and subtendinous bursa. Histological study of synovial membrane and tendon sheath revealed an increased number of vessels, fibroplasia, osseous metaplasia and infiltration of lymphocytes, plasma cells and siderophages. This is the first description of PT in horses, which should be included as an orthopaedic differential diagnosis, especially in Mangalarga Marchador horses with lameness.
We tested whether CRP combined with the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) optimizes the prediction of infectious inflammation in hemodialysis patients. We conducted a retrospective study of 774 (mean age 71.1 ± 12.8 years, 35% women) hemodialysis patients from our institution, hospitalized between 2007 and 2021 for various reasons, with CRP levels available at admission. Infection was defined according to the International Sepsis Definition Conference criteria. An algorithm for the optimal CRP and NLR cutoff points for predicting infection was developed based on a decision tree analysis in the training cohort (n = 620) and then tested in the validation cohort (n = 154). A CRP level above 40 mg/L (obtained as the cutoff point in predicting infections in the training group, using ROC curve analysis) predicted an infection diagnosis with a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 76% with an odds ratio (OR) of 9.37 (95% CI: 5.36-16.39), according to a multivariate logistic regression analysis. Whereas, CRP levels above 23 mg/L together with an NLR above 9.7 predicted an infection diagnosis with a sensitivity of 69% and a specificity of 84% with an OR of 25.59 (95% CI: 9.73-67.31). All these results were reproduced in the validation set. Combined use of CRP with NLR may lower the CRP cutoff point in distinguishing between infectious and noninfectious inflammation in hemodialysis patients.
OBJECTIVES: This research aimed to explore the relationship between pre-treatment inflammatory markers and other clinical characteristics and the survival of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) patients who received first-line platinum-based treatment and to construct nomograms for predicting overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS).METHODS: A total of 612 patients diagnosed with SCLC between March 2008 and August 2021 were randomly divided into two cohorts: a training cohort (n = 459) and a validation cohort (n = 153). Inflammatory markers, clinicopathological factors, and follow-up information of patients were collected for each case. Cox regression was used to conduct univariate and multivariate analyses and the independent prognostic factors were adopted to develop the nomograms. Harrell's concordance index (C-index) and time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve were used to verify model differentiation, calibration curve was used to verify consistency, and decision curve analysis was used to verify the clinical application value.RESULTS: Our results showed that baseline C-reactive protein/albumin ratio, neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio, NSE level, hyponatremia, the efficacy of first-line chemotherapy, and stage were independent prognostic factors for both OS and PFS in SCLC. In the training cohort, the C-index of PFS and OS was 0.698 and 0.666, respectively. In the validation cohort, the C-index of PFS and OS was 0.727 and 0.747, respectively. The nomograms showed good predictability and high clinical value. Also, our new clinical models were superior to the US Veterans Administration Lung Study Group (VALG) staging for predicting the prognosis of SCLC.CONCLUSIONS: The two prognostic nomograms of SCLC including inflammatory markers, VALG stage, and other clinicopathological factors had good predictive value and could individually assess the survival of patients.
Comment in    Cell Chem Biol. 2023 Apr 20;30(4):337-339.
BACKGROUND: Adipose stem cells (ASCs) are a promising cell-based immunotherapy due to their minimally invasive harvest, high yield, and immunomodulatory capacity. In this study, we investigated the effects of local vs. systemic ASC delivery on VCA survival and alloimmune regulation.METHODS: Lewis rats received hindlimb transplants from Brown Norway rats and were administered donor-derived ASCs (passage 3-4, 1x10 6 cells/rat) locally in the allograft, or contralateral limb, or systemically at postoperative day (POD) 1. Recipients were treated intraperitoneal with rabbit anti-rat lymphocyte serum on POD -4 and 1, and daily tacrolimus for 21 days. Limb allografts were monitored for clinical signs of rejection. Donor cell chimerism, immune cell differentiation, and cytokine expression in recipient lymphoid organs were measured by flow cytometric analysis. The immunomodulation function of ASCs was tested by mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay and ASC stimulation studies.RESULTS: Local-ASC treated recipients achieved significant prolonged allograft survival (85.7% survived >130 days, n=6) compared to systemic- and contralateral-ASC groups. Secondary donor skin allografts transplanted to the local-ASC long-term surviving recipients accepted permanently without additional immunosuppression. The increases in donor cell chimerism and regulatory T-cells were evident in blood and draining lymph nodes of the local-ASC group. Moreover, MLR showed that ASCs inhibited donor-specific T cell proliferation independently of direct ASC-T-cell contact. ASCs upregulated anti-inflammatory molecules in response to cytokines stimulation in vitro.CONCLUSIONS: Local delivery of ASCs promoted long-term survival and modulated alloimmune responses in a full MHC-mismatched VCA model and was more effective than systemic administration.
Survivors of acute radiation exposure suffer from the delayed effects of acute radiation exposure (DEARE), a chronic condition affecting multiple organs, including lung, kidney, heart, gastrointestinal tract, eyes, and brain, and often causing cancer. While effective medical countermeasures (MCM) for the hematopoietic-acute radiation syndrome (H-ARS) have been identified and approved by the FDA, development of MCM for DEARE has not yet been successful. We previously documented residual bone marrow damage (RBMD) and progressive renal and cardiovascular DEARE in murine survivors of H-ARS, and significant survival efficacy of 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E2 (dmPGE2) given as a radioprotectant or radiomitigator for H-ARS. We now describe additional DEARE (physiological and neural function, progressive fur graying, ocular inflammation, and malignancy) developing after sub-threshold doses in our H-ARS model, and detailed analysis of the effects of dmPGE2 administered before (PGE-pre) or after (PGE-post) lethal total-body irradiation (TBI) on these DEARE. Administration of PGE-pre normalized the twofold reduction of white blood cells (WBC) and lymphocytes seen in vehicle-treated survivors (Veh), and increased the number of bone marrow (BM) cells, splenocytes, thymocytes, and phenotypically defined hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPC) and hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) to levels equivalent to those in non-irradiated age-matched controls. PGE-pre significantly protected HPC colony formation ex vivo by >twofold, long term-HSC in vivo engraftment potential up to ninefold, and significantly blunted TBI-induced myeloid skewing. Secondary transplantation documented continued production of LT-HSC with normal lineage differentiation. PGE-pre reduced development of DEARE cardiovascular pathologies and renal damage; prevented coronary artery rarefication, blunted progressive loss of coronary artery endothelia, reduced inflammation and coronary early senescence, and blunted radiation-induced increase in blood urea nitrogen (BUN). Ocular monocytes were significantly lower in PGE-pre mice, as was TBI-induced fur graying. Increased body weight and decreased frailty in male mice, and reduced incidence of thymic lymphoma were documented in PGE-pre mice. In assays measuring behavioral and cognitive functions, PGE-pre reduced anxiety in females, significantly blunted shock flinch response, and increased exploratory behavior in males. No effect of TBI was observed on memory in any group. PGE-post, despite significantly increasing 30-day survival in H-ARS and WBC and hematopoietic recovery, was not effective in reducing TBI-induced RBMD or any other DEARE. In summary, dmPGE2 administered as an H-ARS MCM before lethal TBI significantly increased 30-day survival and ameliorated RBMD and multi-organ and cognitive/behavioral DEARE to at least 12 months after TBI, whereas given after TBI, dmPGE2 enhances survival from H-ARS but has little impact on RBMD or other DEARE.
We studied the effects of neutrons, neutrons and γ rays, and γ rays exposures on the transcription spectrum in human peripheral blood of three healthy adult men. Samples were irradiated with 1.42 Gy 2.5-MeV neutrons, 0.71 Gy neutrons and 0.71 Gy 137Cs γ rays, and 1.42 Gy 137Cs γ rays. Transcriptome sequencing identified 56 differentially co-expressed genes and enriched 26 KEGG pathways. There are 97, 45 and 30 differentially expressed genes in neutron, neutron and γ ray combined treatment, and γ rays, respectively, and 21, 3 and 8 KEGG pathways with significant differences are enriched. Fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) verified differential co-expression of AEN, BAX, DDB2, FDXR, and MDM2. Additionally, irradiation of AHH-1 human lymphocytes with a 252Cf neutron source at 0, 0.14, 0.35, and 0.71 Gy, fluorescence qPCR revealed a dose-response relationship for BAX, DDB2, and FDXR at dose ranges of 0-0.71 Gy, with R2 of 0.803, 0.999, and 0.999, respectively. Thus, neutrons can induce more differentially expressed genes and enrich more pathways. Combined treatment of neutrons and γ-rays may incorporate damage of both high and low LET, the genes activated by neutrons and γ rays combined are almost the combination of genes activated by neutron and γ rays combined treatment. BAX, DDB2 and FDXR are differentially expressed after irradiation by Deuterium-Deuterium (D-D) neutron source and 252Cf neutron source, so they are expected to be molecular targets of neutron damage.
BACKGROUND: Human endogenous retroviruses (HERV) are repetitive sequence elements and a substantial part of the human genome. Their role in development has been well documented and there is now mounting evidence that dysregulated HERV expression also contributes to various human diseases. While research on HERV elements has in the past been hampered by their high sequence similarity, advanced sequencing technology and analytical tools have empowered the field. For the first time, we are now able to undertake locus-specific HERV analysis, deciphering expression patterns, regulatory networks and biological functions of these elements. To do so, we inevitable rely on omics datasets available through the public domain. However, technical parameters inevitably differ, making inter-study analysis challenging. We here address the issue of confounding factors for profiling locus-specific HERV transcriptomes using datasets from multiple sources.METHODS: We collected RNAseq datasets of CD4 and CD8 primary T cells and extracted HERV expression profiles for 3220 elements, resembling most intact, near full-length proviruses. Looking at sequencing parameters and batch effects, we compared HERV signatures across datasets and determined permissive features for HERV expression analysis from multiple-source data.RESULTS: We could demonstrate that considering sequencing parameters, sequencing-depth is most influential on HERV signature outcome. Sequencing samples deeper broadens the spectrum of expressed HERV elements. Sequencing mode and read length are secondary parameters. Nevertheless, we find that HERV signatures from smaller RNAseq datasets do reliably reveal most abundantly expressed HERV elements. Overall, HERV signatures between samples and studies overlap substantially, indicating a robust HERV transcript signature in CD4 and CD8 T cells. Moreover, we find that measures of batch effect reduction are critical to uncover genic and HERV expression differences between cell types. After doing so, differences in the HERV transcriptome between ontologically closely related CD4 and CD8 T cells became apparent.CONCLUSION: In our systematic approach to determine sequencing and analysis parameters for detection of locus-specific HERV expression, we provide evidence that analysis of RNAseq datasets from multiple studies can aid confidence of biological findings. When generating de novo HERV expression datasets we recommend increased sequence depth ( > = 100 mio reads) compared to standard genic transcriptome pipelines. Finally, batch effect reduction measures need to be implemented to allow for differential expression analysis.
BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disorder in which excessive CD4+ T-cell activation and imbalanced effector T-cell differentiation play critical roles. Recent studies have implied a potential association between posttranscriptional N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification and CD4+ T-cell-mediated humoral immunity. However, how this biological process contributes to lupus is not well understood. In this work, we investigated the role of the m6A methyltransferase like 3 (METTL3) in CD4+ T-cell activation, differentiation, and SLE pathogenesis both in vitro and in vivo.METHODS: The expression of METTL3 was knocked down and METTL3 enzyme activity was inhibited using siRNA and catalytic inhibitor, respectively. In vivo evaluation of METTL3 inhibition on CD4+ T-cell activation, effector T-cell differentiation, and SLE pathogenesis was achieved using a sheep red blood cell (SRBC)-immunized mouse model and a chronic graft versus host disease (cGVHD) mouse model. RNA-seq was performed to identify pathways and gene signatures targeted by METTL3. m6A RNA-immunoprecipitation qPCR was applied to confirm the m6A modification of METTL3 targets.RESULTS: METTL3 was defective in the CD4+ T cells of SLE patients. METTL3 expression varied following CD4+ T-cell activation and effector T-cell differentiation in vitro. Pharmacological inhibition of METTL3 promoted the activation of CD4+ T cells and influenced the differentiation of effector T cells, predominantly Treg cells, in vivo. Moreover, METTL3 inhibition increased antibody production and aggravated the lupus-like phenotype in cGVHD mice. Further investigation revealed that catalytic inhibition of METTL3 reduced Foxp3 expression by enhancing Foxp3 mRNA decay in a m6A-dependent manner, hence suppressing Treg cell differentiation.CONCLUSION: In summary, our findings demonstrated that METTL3 was required for stabilizing Foxp3 mRNA via m6A modification to maintain the Treg differentiation program. METTL3 inhibition contributed to the pathogenesis of SLE by participating in the activation of CD4+ T cells and imbalance of effector T-cell differentiation, which could serve as a potential target for therapeutic intervention in SLE.
BACKGROUND: Primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) is an autoimmune disease that leads to the destruction of exocrine glands and multisystem lesions. Abnormal proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation of CD4+ T cells are key factors in the pathogenesis of pSS. Autophagy is one of the important mechanisms to maintain immune homeostasis and function of CD4+ T cells. Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (UCMSC-Exos) may simulate the immunoregulation of MSCs while avoiding the risks of MSCs treatment. However, whether UCMSC-Exos can regulate the functions of CD4+ T cells in pSS, and whether the effects via the autophagy pathway remains unclear.METHODS: The study analyzed retrospectively the peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets in pSS patients, and explored the relationship between lymphocyte subsets and disease activity. Next, peripheral blood CD4+ T cells were sorted using immunomagnetic beads. The proliferation, apoptosis, differentiation, and inflammatory factors of CD4+ T cells were determined using flow cytometry. Autophagosomes of CD4+ T cells were detected using transmission electron microscopy, autophagy-related proteins and genes were detected using western blotting or RT-qPCR.RESULTS: The study demonstrated that the peripheral blood CD4+ T cells decreased in pSS patients, and negatively correlated with disease activity. UCMSC-Exos inhibited excessive proliferation and apoptosis of CD4+ T cells in pSS patients, blocked them in the G0/G1 phase, inhibited them from entering the S phase, reduced the Th17 cell ratio, elevated the Treg ratio, inhibited IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F secretion, and promoted IL-10 and TGF-β secretion. UCMSC-Exos reduced the elevated autophagy levels in the peripheral blood CD4+ T cells of patients with pSS. Furthermore, UCMSC-Exos regulated CD4+ T cell proliferation and early apoptosis, inhibited Th17 cell differentiation, promoted Treg cell differentiation, and restored the Th17/Treg balance in pSS patients through the autophagy pathway.CONCLUSIONS: The study indicated that UCMSC-Exos exerts an immunomodulatory effect on the CD4+ T cells, and maybe as a new treatment for pSS.
Lack of reliable predictive biomarkers is a major limitation of combination therapy with chemotherapy and anti-programmed cell death protein 1/programmed death-ligand 1 (anti-PD-1/PD-L1) therapy (chemo-immunotherapy). We previously observed that the increase of peripheral blood CD8+ T cells expressing CX3CR1, a marker of differentiation, correlates with response to anti-PD-1 therapy; however, the predictive and prognostic value of T-cell CX3CR1 expression during chemo-immunotherapy is unknown. Here, we evaluated the utility of circulating CX3CR1+CD8+ T cells as a predictive correlate of response to chemo-immunotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). At least 10% increase of the CX3CR1+ subset in circulating CD8+ T cells from baseline (CX3CR1 score) was associated with response to chemo-immunotherapy as early as 4 weeks with 85.7% overall accuracy of predicting response at 6 weeks. Furthermore, at least 10% increase of the CX3CR1 score correlated with substantially better progression-free (P = 0.0051) and overall survival (P = 0.0138) on Kaplan-Meier analysis. Combined single-cell RNA/T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing of circulating T cells from longitudinally obtained blood samples and TCR sequencing of tumor tissue from the same patient who received a long-term benefit from the treatment demonstrated remarkable changes in genomic and transcriptomic signatures of T cells as well as evolution of TCR clonotypes in peripheral blood containing highly frequent tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte repertoires overexpressing CX3CR1 early after initiation of the treatment despite stable findings of the imaging study. Collectively, these findings highlight the potential utility of T-cell CX3CR1 expression as a dynamic blood-based biomarker during the early course of chemo-immunotherapy and a marker to identify frequent circulating tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte repertoires.SIGNIFICANCE: Current approaches to combined chemotherapy and anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy (chemo-immunotherapy) for patients with NSCLC are limited by the lack of reliable predictive biomarkers. This study shows the utility of T-cell differentiation marker, CX3CR1, as an early on-treatment predictor of response and changes in genomic/transcriptomic signatures of circulating tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte repertoires in patients with NSCLC undergoing chemo-immunotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the most prevalent chronic diseases, leading to degeneration of joints, chronic pain, and disability in the elderly. Little is known about the role of immune-related genes (IRGs) and immune cells in OA.METHOD: Hub IRGs of OA were identified by differential expression analysis and filtered by three machine learning strategies, including random forest (RF), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), and support vector machine (SVM). A diagnostic nomogram model was then constructed by using these hub IRGs, with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, decision curve analysis (DCA), and clinical impact curve analysis (CICA) estimating its performance and clinical impact. Hierarchical clustering analysis was then conducted by setting the hub IRGs as input information. Differences in immune cell infiltration and activities of immune pathways were revealed between different immune subtypes.RESULT: Five hub IRGs of OA were identified, including TNFSF11, SCD1, PGF, EDNRB, and IL1R1. Of them, TNFSF11 and SCD1 contributed the most to the diagnostic nomogram model with area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.904 and 0.864, respectively. Two immune subtypes were characterized. The immune over-activated subtype showed excessively activated cellular immunity with a higher proportion of activated B cells and activated CD8 T cells. The two phenotypes were also seen in two validation cohorts.CONCLUSION: The present study comprehensively investigated the role of immune genes and immune cells in OA. Five hub IRGs and two immune subtypes were identified. These findings will provide novel insights into the diagnosis and treatment of OA.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stress hyperglycemia ratio (SHR), which is used to assess stress hyperglycemia, is associated with the functional outcome of ischemic stroke (IS). IS can induce the inflammatory response. Neutrophil counts and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) as good and easily available inflammatory biomarkers, the relationship between neutrophil counts and NLR and SHR were poorly explored in IS. We aimed to systemically and comprehensively explore the correlation between various blood inflammation markers (mainly neutrophil counts and NLR) and SHR.METHODS: Data from 487 patients with acute IS(AIS) in Xiangya Hospital were retrospectively reviewed. High/low SHR groups according to the median of SHR (≤1.02 versus >1.02). Binary logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate the correlation between neutrophil counts and NLR and high SHR group. Subgroup analyses were performed in the TOAST classification and functional prognosis.RESULTS: The neutrophil counts and NLR were all clearly associated with SHR levels in different logistic analysis models. In the subgroup analysis of TOAST classification, the higher neutrophil counts and NLR were the independent risk factors for high SHR patients with large-artery atherosclerosis (LAA) (neutrophil: adjusted OR:2.047, 95% CI: 1.355-3.093, P=0.001; NLR: adjusted OR:1.315, 95% CI: 1.129-1.530, P<0.001). The higher neutrophil counts were the independent risk factor for high SHR patients with cardioembolism (CE) (adjusted OR:2.413, 95% CI: 1.081-5.383, P=0.031). ROC analysis showed that neutrophil counts was helpful for differentiating high SHR group with CE and low SHR group with CE (neutrophil: AUC =0.776, P=0.002). However, there were no difference in levels of neutrophil counts and NLR between patients with SVO and without SVO. The higher neutrophil counts and NLR independently associated with high SHR patients with mRS ≤2 at 90 days from symptom onset, (neutrophil: adjusted OR:2.284, 95% CI: 1.525-3.420, P<0.001; NLR: adjusted OR:1.377, 95% CI: 1.164-1.629, P<0.001), but not in patients with mRS >2.CONCLUSIONS: This study found that the neutrophil counts and NLR are positively associated with SHR levels in AIS patients. In addition, the correlation between neutrophil counts and NLR and different SHR levels are diverse according to TOAST classification and functional prognosis.
Clinical disease caused by infection with Listeria monocytogenes is rare in adult horses, and there is a paucity of ante-mortem clinicopathologic changes for this species reported in the literature. Confirmatory diagnosis is difficult and often requires post-mortem sampling of the brainstem. This report details a case of meningoencephalitis caused by Listeria monocytogenes in an adult American quarter horse gelding presenting with central neurologic signs. Pre-mortem analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid revealed a mononuclear, primarily lymphocytic, pleocytosis, which is a reported finding in other species with listeriosis. Post-mortem histopathologic changes of the brainstem were characteristic of listeriosis, and infection was confirmed with immunohistochemical labeling and bacterial culture. Key clinical message: Listeriosis should be included as a differential diagnosis in neurologic horses with mononuclear pleocytosis identified on cerebrospinal fluid analysis.
During chronic stress, there is an initial increase in glucocorticoid (GC) levels, but they then return to low, albeit not baseline, levels. Recent studies have renewed interest in cortisol in that it may also have important roles in the stress response. The purpose of our study was to test the hypothesis that chronic treatment with low levels of either corticosterone or cortisol would alter HLR and immune organ morphometrics. Further, we wanted to determine if chronic treatment with either GC would elicit an increase in cortisol levels in egg albumen. To test our hypotheses, we implanted silastic capsules that contained corticosterone, cortisol, or empty capsules as controls (N = 5/sex/treatment). Blood serum, smears, body weights, and egg quality data were collected. Ducks were then euthanized and body weight, weights of spleens, livers, and the number of active follicles were recorded. Albumen GC levels were assessed using mass spectrometry. Data were analyzed using a 2- or 3-way ANOVA as appropriate and post-hoc with Fishers PLSD. No treatment elicited differences in egg quality measures or body weight compared to controls. Corticosterone treatment did elicit an increase in serum corticosterone (p < 0.05), but not cortisol, levels compared to controls in both sexes. Both cortisol and corticosterone treatments increased (p < 0.05) serum levels of cortisol compared to controls. Relative spleen weights were higher (p < 0.05) in hens following corticosterone but not cortisol treatment. No other organs showed any differences among the treatment groups. Both GCs elicited an increase (p < 0.001) in HLR in hens at all time-points over the 2-week treatment period compared to controls. Cortisol, not corticosterone, only elicited an increase in HLR for drakes (p < 0.05) compared to controls but only at day 1 after implants. Chronic treatment with cortisol, but not corticosterone, elicited an increase (p < 0.01) in egg albumen cortisol levels compared to other groups. Corticosterone was not detected in any albumen samples. Our results suggest that glucocorticoids elicit differential effects and although corticosterone has been stated to be the predominant GC in avian species, cortisol may provide critical information to further understand bird welfare.
Bone is the third most common metastatic site for all primary tumors, the common primary focus of bone metastases include breast cancer, prostate cancer, and so on. And the median survival time of patients with bone metastases is only 2-3 years. Therefore, it is urgent to develop new targets to diagnose and treat bone metastases. Based on two data sets GSE146661 and GSE77930 associated with bone metastases, it was found that 209 genes differentially expressed in bone metastases group and control group. PECAM1 was selected as hub-gene for the follow-up research after constructing protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and enrichment analysis. Moreover, q-PCR analysis verified that the expression of PECAM1 decreased in bone metastatic tumor tissues. PECAM1 was believed to be possibly related to the function of osteoclasts, we knocked down the expression of PECAM1 with shRNA in lymphocytes extracted from bone marrow nailed blood. The results indicated that sh-PECAM1 treatment could promote osteoclast differentiation, and the sh-PECAM1-treated osteoclast culture medium could significantly promote the proliferation and migration of tumor cells. These results suggested that PECAM1 may be a potential biomarker for the diagnosis and treatment of bone metastases of tumor.
INTRODUCTION: The leukemic cells of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are often unique, expressing remarkably similar IGHV-IGHD-IGHJ gene rearrangements, "stereotyped BCRs". The B-cell receptors (BCRs) on CLL cells are also distinctive in often deriving from autoreactive B lymphocytes, leading to the assumption of a defect in immune tolerance.RESULTS: Using bulk and single-cell immunoglobulin heavy and light chain variable domain sequencing, we enumerated CLL stereotype-like IGHV-IGHD-IGHJ sequences (CLL-SLS) in B cells from cord blood (CB) and adult peripheral blood (PBMC) and bone marrow (BM of healthy donors. CLL-SLS were found at similar frequencies among CB, BM, and PBMC, suggesting that age does not influence CLL-SLS levels. Moreover, the frequencies of CLL-SLS did not differ among B lymphocytes in the BM at early stages of development, and only re-circulating marginal zone B cells contained significantly higher CLL-SLS frequencies than other mature B-cell subpopulations. Although we identified CLL-SLS corresponding to most of the CLL major stereotyped subsets, CLL-SLS frequencies did not correlate with those found in patients. Interestingly, in CB samples, half of the CLL-SLS identified were attributed to two IGHV-mutated subsets. We also found satellite CLL-SLS among the same normal samples, and they were also enriched in naïve B cells but unexpectedly, these were ~10-fold higher than standard CLL-SLS. In general, IGHV-mutated CLL-SLS subsets were enriched among antigen-experienced B-cell subpopulations, and IGHV-unmutated CLL-SLS were found mostly in antigen-inexperienced B cells. Nevertheless, CLL-SLS with an IGHV-mutation status matching that of CLL clones varied among the normal B-cell subpopulations, suggesting that specific CLL-SLS could originate from distinct subpopulations of normal B cells. Lastly, using single-cell DNA sequencing, we identified paired IGH and IGL rearrangements in normal B lymphocytes resembling those of stereotyped BCRs in CLL, although some differed from those in patients based on IG isotype or somatic mutation.DISCUSSION: CLL-SLS are present in normal B-lymphocyte populations at all stages of development. Thus, despite their autoreactive profile they are not deleted by central tolerance mechanisms, possibly because the level of autoreactivity is not registered as dangerous by deletion mechanisms or because editing of L-chain variable genes occurred which our experimental approach could not identify.
PURPOSE: Nutritional and inflammatory states are crucial in cancer development. The purpose of this study is to construct a scoring system grounded on peripheral blood parameters associated with nutrition and inflammation and explore its value in stage, overall survival (OS), and progression-free survival (PFS) prediction for epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Four hundred and fifty-three EOC patients were retrospectively identified and their clinical data and relevant peripheral blood parameters were collected. The ratio of neutrophil to lymphocyte, lymphocyte to monocyte, fibrinogen to lymphocyte, total cholesterol to lymphocyte and albumin level were calculated and dichotomized. A scoring system named peripheral blood score (PBS) was constructed. Univariate and multivariate Logistic or Cox regression analyses were used to select independent factors; these factors were then used to develop nomogram models of advanced stage and OS, PFS, respectively. The internal validation and DCA analysis were performed to evaluate models.RESULTS: Lower PBS indicated a better prognosis and higher PBS indicated inferior. High PBS is associated with advanced stage, high CA125, serous histological type, poor differentiation, and accompanied ascites. The logistic regression showed age, CA125, and PBS were independent factors for the FIGO III-IV stage. The nomogram models for advanced FIGO stage based on these factors showed good efficiency. FIGO stage, residual disease, and PBS were independent factors affecting OS and PFS, the nomogram models composed of these factors had good performance. DCA curves revealed the models augmented net benefits.CONCLUSION: PBS can be a noninvasive biomarker for EOC patients' prognosis. The related nomogram models could be powerful, cost-effective tools to provide information of advanced stage, OS, and PFS for EOC patients.
BACKGROUND: Metabolic reprogramming is a well-known hallmark of cancer. Systematical identification of clinically relevant metabolic subtypes of Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is critical to understand tumor heterogeneity and develop efficient treatment strategies.METHODS: We performed an integrative analysis of genomic, transcriptomic, and clinical data from an HCC patient cohort in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA).RESULTS: Four metabolic subtypes were defined: mHCC1, mHHC2, mHCC3, and mHCC4. These subtypes had distinct differences in mutations profiles, activities of metabolic pathways, prognostic metabolism genes, and immune features. The mHCC1 was associated with poorest outcome and was characterized by extensive metabolic alterations, abundant immune infiltration, and increased expression of immunosuppressive checkpoints. The mHHC2 displayed lowest metabolic alteration level and was associated with most significant improvement in overall survival in response to high CD8+ T cell infiltration. The mHHC3 was a "cold-tumor" with low immune infiltration and few metabolic alterations. The mHCC4 presented a medium degree of metabolic alteration and high CTNNB1 mutation rate. Based on our HCC classification and in vitro study, we identified palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1) was a specific prognostic gene and therapeutic target for mHCC1.CONCLUSION: Our study highlighted mechanistic differences among metabolic subtypes and identified potential therapeutic targets for subtype-specific treatment strategies targeting unique metabolic vulnerabilities. The immune heterogeneities across metabolic subtypes may help further clarify the association between metabolism and immune environment and guide the development of novel strategies through targeting both unique metabolic vulnerabilities and immunosuppressive triggers.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the clinical significance of the interferon (IFN) score, especially the IFN-I score, in patients with anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) antibody-positive dermatomyositis (anti-MDA5+ DM).METHODS: We enrolled 262 patients with different autoimmune diseases, including idiopathic inflammatory myopathy, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, adult-onset Still's disease, and Sjögren's syndrome, as well as 58 healthy controls. Multiplex quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) using four TaqMan probes was used to evaluate type I IFN-stimulated genes (IFI44 and MX1), one type II IFN-stimulated gene (IRF1), and one internal control gene (HRPT1), which were used to determine the IFN-I score. The clinical features and disease activity index were compared between the high and low IFN-I score groups in 61 patients with anti-MDA5+ DM. The associations between laboratory findings and the predictive value of the baseline IFN-I score for mortality were analyzed.RESULTS: The IFN score was significantly higher in patients with anti-MDA5+ DM than in healthy controls. The IFN-I score was positively correlated with the serum IFN-α concentration, ferritin concentration, and Myositis Disease Activity Assessment Visual Analogue Scale (MYOACT) score. Compared with patients with a low IFN-I score, patients with a high IFN-I score showed a higher MYOACT score, C-reactive protein concentration, aspartate transaminase concentration, ferritin concentration, plasma cell percentage, and CD3+ T-cell percentage, as well as lower lymphocyte, natural killer cell, and monocyte counts. The 3-month survival rate was significantly lower in patients with an IFN-I score of >4.9 than in those with an IFN-I score of ≤4.9 (72.9% vs. 100%, respectively; P = 0.044).CONCLUSION: The IFN score, especially the IFN-I score, measured by multiplex RT-qPCR is a valuable tool to monitor disease activity and predict mortality in patients with anti-MDA5+ DM.
INTRODUCTION: Mucosal Associated Invariant T (MAIT) cells are innate-like T cells that respond to conserved pathogen-derived vitamin B metabolites presented by the MHC class I related-1 molecule (MR1) antigen presentation pathway. Whilst viruses do not synthesize these metabolites, we have reported that varicella zoster virus (VZV) profoundly suppresses MR1 expression, implicating this virus in manipulation of the MR1:MAIT cell axis. During primary infection, the lymphotropism of VZV is likely to be instrumental in hematogenous dissemination of virus to gain access to cutaneous sites where it clinically manifests as varicella (chickenpox). However, MAIT cells, which are found in the blood and at mucosal and other organ sites, have yet to be examined in the context of VZV infection. The goal of this study was to examine any direct impact of VZV on MAIT cells.METHODS: Using flow cytometry, we interrogated whether primary blood derived MAIT cells are permissive to infection by VZV whilst further analysing differential levels of infection between various MAIT cell subpopulations. Changes in cell surface extravasation, skin homing, activation and proliferation markers after VZV infection of MAIT cells was also assessed via flow cytometry. Finally the capacity of MAIT cells to transfer infectious virus was tested through an infectious center assay and imaged via fluorescence microscopy.RESULTS: We identify primary blood-derived MAIT cells as being permissive to VZV infection. A consequence of VZV infection of MAIT cells was their capacity to transfer infectious virus to other permissive cells, consistent with MAIT cells supporting productive infection. When subgrouping MAIT cells by their co- expression of a variety cell surface markers, there was a higher proportion of VZV infected MAIT cells co-expressing CD4+ and CD4+/CD8+ MAIT cells compared to the more phenotypically dominant CD8+ MAIT cells, whereas infection was not associated with differences in co-expression of CD56 (MAIT cell subset with enhanced responsiveness to innate cytokine stimulation), CD27 (co-stimulatory) or PD-1 (immune checkpoint). Infected MAIT cells retained high expression of CCR2, CCR5, CCR6, CLA and CCR4, indicating a potentially intact capacity for transendothelial migration, extravasation and trafficking to skin sites. Infected MAIT cells also displayed increased expression of CD69 (early activation) and CD71 (proliferation) markers.DISCUSSION: These data identify MAIT cells as being permissive to VZV infection and identify impacts of such infection on co- expressed functional markers.
BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a prototypic autoimmune disease mainly mediated by IgG autoantibody. While follicular helper T (Tfh) cells are crucial for supporting IgG autoantibody generation in human SLE, underlying mechanisms for Tfh cell mal-differentiation remain unclear.METHODS: In total, 129 SLE patients and 37 healthy donors were recruited for this study. Circulating leptin was determined by ELISA from patients with SLE and healthy individuals. CD4 T cells isolated from SLE patients and healthy donors were activated with anti-CD3/CD28 beads under cytokine-unbiased conditions in the presence or absence of recombinant leptin protein, followed by detection for Tfh cell differentiation by quantifying intracellular transcription factor Bcl-6 and cytokine IL-21. AMPK activation was assessed by analyzing phosphor-AMPK using phosflow cytometry and immunoblots. Leptin receptor expression was determined using flow cytometry and its overexpression was achieved by transfection with an expression vector. Humanized SLE chimeras were induced by injecting patients' immune cells into immune-deficient NSG mice and used for translational studies.RESULTS: Circulating leptin was elevated in patients with SLE, inversely associated with disease activity. In healthy individuals, leptin efficiently inhibited Tfh cell differentiation through inducing AMPK activation. Meanwhile, leptin receptor deficiency was a feature of CD4 T cells in SLE patients, impairing the inhibitory effect of leptin on the differentiation of Tfh cells. As a result, we observed the coexistence of high circulating leptin and increased Tfh cell frequencies in SLE patients. Accordingly, overexpression of leptin receptor in SLE CD4 T cells abrogated Tfh cell mal-differentiation and IgG anti-dsDNA generation in humanized lupus chimeras.CONCLUSION: Leptin receptor deficiency blocks the inhibitory effect of leptin on SLE Tfh cell differentiation, serving as a promising therapeutic target for lupus management.
INTRODUCTION: Chronic or uncontrolled activation of myeloid cells including monocytes, macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs) is a hallmark of immune-mediated inflammatory disorders. There is an urgent need for the development of novel drugs with the capacity to impair innate immune cell overactivation under inflammatory conditions. Compelling evidence pointed out cannabinoids as potential therapeutic tools with anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory capacity. WIN55,212-2, a non-selective synthetic cannabinoid agonist, displays protective effects in several inflammatory conditions by mechanisms partially depending on the generation of tolerogenic DCs able to induce functional regulatory T cells (Tregs). However, its immunomodulatory capacity on other myeloid cells such as monocytes and macrophages remains incompletely understood.METHODS: Human monocyte-derived DCs (hmoDCs) were differentiated in the absence (conventional hmoDCs) or presence of WIN55,212-2 (WIN-hmoDCs). Cells were stimulated with LPS, cocultured with naive T lymphocytes and their cytokine production and ability to induce T cell responses were analysed by ELISA or flow cytometry. To evaluate the effect of WIN55,212-2 in macrophage polarization, human and murine macrophages were activated with LPS or LPS/IFNγ, in the presence or absence of the cannabinoid. Cytokine, costimulatory molecules and inflammasome markers were assayed. Metabolic and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were also performed. Finally, the protective capacity of WIN55,212-2 was studied in vivo in BALB/c mice after intraperitoneal injection with LPS.RESULTS: We show for the first time that the differentiation of hmoDCs in the presence of WIN55,212-2 generates tolerogenic WIN-hmoDCs that are less responsive to LPS stimulation and able to prime Tregs. WIN55,212-2 also impairs the pro-inflammatory polarization of human macrophages by inhibiting cytokine production, inflammasome activation and rescuing macrophages from pyroptotic cell death. Mechanistically, WIN55,212-2 induced a metabolic and epigenetic shift in macrophages by decreasing LPS-induced mTORC1 signaling, commitment to glycolysis and active histone marks in pro-inflammatory cytokine promoters. We confirmed these data in ex vivo LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages (PMΦs), which were also supported by the in vivo anti-inflammatory capacity of WIN55,212-2 in a LPS-induced sepsis mouse model.CONCLUSION: Overall, we shed light into the molecular mechanisms by which cannabinoids exert anti-inflammatory properties in myeloid cells, which might well contribute to the future rational design of novel therapeutic strategies for inflammatory disorders.
AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: Mouth acts as a mirror for most of the underlying systemic diseases. Very few studies were done in south Indian population to observe the oral manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in relation to the cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) count, and this study mainly highlights the presenting complaint of HIV patients during their dental visit. The study was aimed to determine the chief complaints of patients along with oral manifestations of HIV and correlate them to CD4 count.MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred consecutive HIV-positive patients were considered for the study. All the oral manifestations and the chief complaints along with the calculated CD4 counts were noted and the results were correlated. Spearman correlation was used for CD4 count and other oral manifestations.RESULTS: The mean CD4 counts were 421 cells/mm3 with a standard deviation (SD) of 404.34 for the most common oral manifestation of burning mouth and 176.5 cells/mm3 for the least common manifestation of malignancies. The CD4 count ranged from 120 to 1100 cells/mm3. The mean age and CD4 count were 38 years and 398.86, respectively. There was a statistically significant correlation with candidiasis and gingivitis, and the rest of the conditions were insignificant.CONCLUSION: The study results suggest that the chief complaint of presentation of an HIV-positive patient is pain due to carious teeth/abscess followed by burning mouth, with candidiasis being the most common disease.
PURPOSE: V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T-cell activation (VISTA) is a novel type of immune checkpoint. This study was performed to explore the potential mechanism by which different domains of VISTA affect T-cell activation and search for potential interacting proteins.METHODS: Stably transfected Jurkat cell lines were constructed to overexpress human VISTA (VISTA-FL), cytoplasmic domain deletion mutants (VISTA-ΔECD) and extracellular domain deletion mutants (VISTA- ΔCD). Empty vector (EV) control cell lines were constructed. Four stable cell lines were subjected to transcriptome sequencing after stimulation with PMA and PHA. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were analysed to explore the potential pathway by which VISTA inhibits T-cell activation. Proteinprotein interaction (PPI) network analysis was used to search for potential interacting proteins of VISTA.RESULTS: In this study, 1256 DEGs were identified in Jurkat-VISTA-FL cells, 740 DEGs in Jurkat-VISTA-ΔCD cells, and 5605 DEGs in Jurkat-VISTA-ΔECD cells compared with Jurkat-EV cells. DEGs were mainly enriched in pathways related to T-cell differentiation, T-cell receptor signalling pathway and T-cell migration in Jurkat-VISTA-ΔECD cells; with cholesterol biosynthesis in Jurkat-VISTA-ΔCD cells; and with the inflammatory response in Jurkat-VISTA-FL cells. HHLA2 and CTH were identified as potential partners that interact directly with VISTA. The results also show an indirect interaction between VISTA and PSGL-1.CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed the pathways by which VISTA is involved in T-cell activation and identified the potential binding partners of VISTA through RNA-seq, providing valuable resources for developing in-depth studies of the action mechanisms of VISTA as a potential target for cancer and inflammatory diseases.
OBJECTIVES: Knowledge regarding thymic EBV-related poorly differentiated nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma (PDNKSCC), also known as lymphoepithelial carcinoma (LEC), is extremely limited due to its rarity.MATERIALS AND METHODS: This multi-institutional study enrolled 85 patients with thymic PDNKSCC. DNA in situ hybridization was performed to evaluate the EBV status of all 85 cases. Immunohistochemistry and next generation sequencing were performed to compare the differences in the clinicopathological and molecular features between EBV-related and EBV-unrelated PDNKSCC. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) were also analyzed by these methods.RESULTS: The 85 cases were classified into 27 EBV-related PDNKSCCs (31.8 %) and 58 EBV-unrelated PDNKSCCs (68.2 %) according to the EBV status, and 35 Lymphoepithelioma pattern (LP) (41.2 %) and 50 desmoplastic pattern (DP) (58.8 %) according to the histological characteristics. Compared to the EBV-unrelated PDNKSCC, EBV-related PDNKSCC showed a younger patient predominance and more commonly displayed a LP subtype. Additionally, LP-type cases were divided into two groups: Group 1 (EBV-related, 20/85) and Group 2 (EBV-unrelated, 15/85); the DP-type cases were divided into Group 3 (EBV-unrelated, 43/85) and Group 4 (EBV-related, 7/85). The four Groups showed a significant association with patients' OS and PFS. EBV-related PDNKSCC had significantly higher PD-L1 + tumor cells (TCs) and PD-L1 + and CD8 + immune cells (ICs) than EBV-unrelated PDNKSCC. The tumor microenvironment immune type (TMIT) I (PDL1-Tumor+/CD8-High) was more common in EBV-related PDNKSCC, especially in Group 1(LP and EBV related) with more than 90 % cases belonged to TMIT I. Molecular analysis demonstrated that EBV-related PDNKSCC had a significantly higher tumour mutational burden and frequency of somatic mutations than EBV-unrelated cases.CONCLUSIONS: EBV-related PDNKSCC, especially the Group 1, could be a candidate for immunotherapy and EBV positivity may provide an indication for the selection of targeted therapy due to their high tumour mutational burden.
A subset of severe COVID19 patients develop pulmonary fibrosis, but the pathophysiology of this complication is still unclear. We previously described the possibility to isolate lung mesenchymal cells (LMC) by culturing broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) cells from patients with pulmonary fibrosis or chronic lung allograft dysfunction. Aim of this study was to investigate the possibility to isolate and characterize LMC from BAL of patients that, two months after discharge for severe COVID19, show CT signs of post-COVID19 fibrosis (Post-COVID) and in some cases has been considered transplant indication. Results were compared with those from BAL of patients with collagen tissue disease-associated interstitial fibrosis (CTD-ILD). BAL fluid levels of TGFβ, VEGF, TIMP2, RANTES, IL6, IL8, and PAI1 were assessed. LMC were cultured and expanded, phenotyped by flow cytometry, and tested for osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. Finally, we tested immunomodulatory and proliferative capabilities, collagen I production + /- TGF-beta stimulation. BAL cytokine and growth factor levels were comparable in the two groups. Efficiency of isolation from BAL was 100% in post-COVID compared to 63% in CTD-ILD. LMC from post-COVID were positive for CD105, CD73, CD90, and negative for CD45, CD34, CD19 and HLA-DR as in CTD-ILD samples. Post-COVID LMC displayed higher collagen production with respect to CTD-ILD LMC. Immunomodulatory capacity towards lymphocytes was very low, while Post-COVID LMC significantly upregulated pro-inflammatory cytokine production by healthy PBMCs. Our preliminary data suggest that LMC from post-COVID19 fibrosis patients share several features with CTD-ILD ones but might have a higher response to fibrogenic signals and pro-inflammatory profile.
BACKGROUND: Skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) is an extremely malignant tumor and accounts for the majority of skin cancer deaths. Aspartate beta-hydroxylase domain containing 1 (ASPHD1) may participate in cancer progression through controlling α-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases. However, its role in skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) has not been well studied.METHODS: The gene expression data of ASPDH1 and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from TCGA and GTEx were evaluated, and verified via the GEO database. Then, we performed GO/KEGG, GSEA, PPI network analysis to analyze the functional implications of the DEGs related to ASPHD1. Then, the association between the ASPHD1 expression and clinical parameters was investigated by Cox regression analysis. Subsequently, the survival time of SKCM patients was evaluated by plotting Kaplan-Meier curves. Moreover, we investigated the correlation between the ASPHD1 expression and lymphocytic infiltration by using the data from TISIDB and TIMER 2.0. Next, we explored the association between ASPHD1 expression and drug sensitivity. Finally, we validate the expression differences by analyzing the results of qPCR, Western blot from human normal epidermal melanocytes and melanoma cells, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) from non-tumor skin as well as melanoma tissues.RESULTS: The ASPHD1 expression level was significantly upregulated in several cancers, including SKCM especially SKCM-metastasis tissues, and patients with an increased ASPHD1 expression had longer overall survival time than low expression ones. The functional enrichment analysis of ASPHD1-related DEGs showed an association with cell development regulation and tumorigenic pathways. Furthermore, the increased ASPHD1 expression level was associated with the level of immunostimulors, immunoinhibitors, chemokines, and TILs, such as CD4+, CD8+ T cell, mast cell, Th2 cell, and dendritic cell. More interesting, we found that ASPHD1 expression was tightly associated with CTLA4 and CD276 which are immune checkpoint markers. Moreover, the upregulated expression of ASPHD1 exhibited higher IC50 values for 24 chemotherapy drugs, including doxorubicin, and masitinib. Finally, the differential expression of ASPHD1 in SKCM was validated by the results of qPCR, Western blot, and IHC.CONCLUSION: The expression of ASPHD1 in SKCM patients is closely related to patient survival. ASPHD1 may participate in the regulation of tumor immune microenvironment. Additionally, it may serve as a prognostic biomarker for SKCM and future in-depth studies are necessary to explore its value.
Because of its speed and convenience, the subway has become the first choice for travel by many residents. However, the concentration of fine particles (PM2.5) in the air of a subway platform is higher than that of the ground level or carriage. Moreover, the composition and source of subway PM2.5 differ from those of atmospheric PM2.5. Currently, there is insufficient research on the impact of subway PM2.5 on health. In this study, intratracheally subway PM2.5-inoculated wild type (WT) and Rag1-/- mice, lacking functional T cells and B cells, were used to investigate the potential of subway PM2.5 exposure to cause extrapulmonary organ injuries. Subway PM2.5 increased inflammatory cells infiltration, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-6, as well as monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-1 gene and protein expression, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) induction, and Toll-like receptor (TLR)-2, TLR4, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), and nuclear factor (NF)-κB levels in liver, kidney, spleen, and thymus in a dose-dependent fashion in WT mice. Subway PM2.5 exposure resulted in slight macrophage (F4/80+) and neutrophil (Ly6G+) infiltration and caused no increase in the protein levels of TNF-α, IL-6, MCP-1, or COX-2 in the liver, kidneys, spleen, and thymus of Rag1-/- mice. These results demonstrate a dose-response manner between subway PM2.5 exposure and inflammatory injuries of extrapulmonary organs, which could be related to the TLR/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway. Subway PM2.5-induced extrapulmonary organ damage was dependent on T cells and B cells; this finding may provide insight for research on the mechanisms responsible for the health hazards posed by air pollution.
Comment on    Cancer Cell. 2023 Apr 10;41(4):776-790.e7.
Cancer immunotherapies, including adoptive T cell transfer, can be ineffective because tumors evolve to display antigen-loss-variant clones. Therapies that activate multiple branches of the immune system may eliminate escape variants. Here, we show that melanoma-specific CD4+ T cell therapy in combination with OX40 co-stimulation or CTLA-4 blockade can eradicate melanomas containing antigen escape variants. As expected, early on-target recognition of melanoma antigens by tumor-specific CD4+ T cells was required. Surprisingly, complete tumor eradication was dependent on neutrophils and partly dependent on inducible nitric oxide synthase. In support of these findings, extensive neutrophil activation was observed in mouse tumors and in biopsies of melanoma patients treated with immune checkpoint blockade. Transcriptomic and flow cytometry analyses revealed a distinct anti-tumorigenic neutrophil subset present in treated mice. Our findings uncover an interplay between T cells mediating the initial anti-tumor immune response and neutrophils mediating the destruction of tumor antigen loss variants.
Follicular helper T (Tfh) cells are important for generating humoral immune responses by helping B cells form germinal centers (GCs) and the production of high-affinity antibodies. However, aberrant Tfh cell expansion also contributes to the generation of self-reactive autoantibodies and promotes autoantibody-mediated autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Protein phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit alpha isoform (PP2A Cα) expression levels are elevated in peripheral T cells of SLE patients and positively correlate with autoantibody titers and disease activity. Here, we demonstrate a critical role of PP2A in Tfh differentiation by using T cell restricted PP2A Cα deficient mice. We observed impaired Tfh differentiation and GC response in two different classical Tfh induction models. Mechanistic studies revealed that downregulation of protein translation of the Tfh lineage transcription factor BCL6 in PP2A deficient T cells. Importantly, we found that PP2A deficiency by either gene knockout or chemical inhibition alleviated lupus severity in mice. Lastly, we confirmed a positive correlation between PP2A Cα and BCL6 protein levels in human CD4+ T cells from patients with SLE. In summary, our study revealed a critical role of PP2A in regulating Tfh cells and suggests it is a potential therapeutic target for lupus.
The response of gamma delta (γδ) T cells in the acute versus chronic phases of the same infection is unclear. How γδ T cells function in acute Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection is well characterized, but their response during persistent Mtb infection is not well understood, even though most infections with Mtb manifest as a chronic, clinically asymptomatic state. Here, we analyze peripheral blood γδ T cells from a South African adolescent cohort and show that a unique CD8+ γδ T cell subset with features of "memory inflation" expands in chronic Mtb infection. These cells are hyporesponsive to T cell receptor (TCR)-mediated signaling but, like NK cells, can mount robust CD16-mediated cytotoxic responses. These CD8+ γδ T cells comprise a highly focused TCR repertoire, with clonotypes that are Mycobacterium specific but not phosphoantigen reactive. Using multiparametric single-cell pseudo-time trajectory analysis, we identified the differentiation paths that these CD8+ γδ T cells follow to develop into effectors in this infection state. Last, we found that circulating CD8+ γδ T cells also expand in other chronic inflammatory conditions, including cardiovascular disease and cancer, suggesting that persistent antigenic exposure may drive similar γδ T cell effector programs and differentiation fates.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the significance of miRNA expression levels in peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients clinically diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis.METHOD: Pulmonary tuberculosis-related datasets in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were analyzed, and DE-miRNAs were screened for Gene Ontology (GO) analysis and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment to construct a DE-miRNA-DE-mRNA network. The peripheral blood lymphocytes of 10 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis, 10 patients with rifampicin-resistant tuberculosis and 10 healthy volunteers were selected for validation of RNA expression levels. qRT-PCR was done to verify the expression of DE-miRNA, and western blotting was done to check the expression levels of genes of associated pathways.RESULTS: Differential expression of miR-660 was found in pulmonary tuberculosis through data analysis and literature mining. The differential expression was also confirmed by qRT-PCR in samples from patients and healthy controls. The expression of miR-660 was significantly upregulated (p < 0.01) in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and rifampicin-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis compared with the healthy controls. According to western blotting results, the expression levels of P-NF-κB and AKT in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis and NF-κB, P-NF-κB, AKT and p-AKT in patients with rifampicin-resistant tuberculosis were significantly upregulated (p < 0.01).CONCLUSION: The high expression levels of miR-660 may activate the AKT/NF-κB signalling pathway and has the potential to serve as a potential biomarker for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis.
T cells are considered to be critical drivers of intestinal inflammation in mice and people. The so called intra-epithelial lymphocyte (IEL) compartment largely consist of T cells. Interestingly, the specific regulation and contribution of IELs in the context of inflammatory bowel disease remains poorly understood, in part due to the lack of appropriate analysis tools. Powerful, label-free methods could ultimately provide access to this cell population and hence give valuable insight into IEL biology and even more to their disease-related functionalities. Raman spectroscopy has demonstrated over the last few years its potential for reliable cell characterization and differentiation, but its utility in regard to IEL exploration remains unknown. To address this question experimentally, we utilized a murine, T cell-driven experimental model system which is accepted to model human gut inflammation. Here, we repopulated the small intestinal IEL compartment (SI IELs) of Rag1-deficient mice endogenously lacking T cells by transferring naïve CD4+ T helper cells intraperitoneally. Using multivariate statistical analysis, high-throughput Raman spectroscopy managed to define a cell subpopulation ex vivo within the SI IEL pool of mice previously receiving T cells in vivo that displayed characteristic spectral features of lymphocytes. Raman data sets matched flow cytometry analyses with the latter identifying T cell receptor (TCR)αβ+ CD4+ T cell population in SI IELs from T cell-transferred mice, but not from control mice, in an abundance comparable to the one detected by Raman spectroscopy. Hence, in this study, we provide experimental evidence for high-throughput Raman spectroscopy to be a novel, future tool to reliably identify and potentially further characterize the T cell pool of small intestinal IELs ex vivo.
Thymocytes having diverse Ag specificities are selected in response to self-MHC-peptide expressed in thymic epithelial cells, which contributes to the formation of a T cell repertoire. However, it is not well understood whether additional signals from epithelial cells are required to drive positive selection. In this study, we found that one of the TNFR superfamily members, herpes virus entry mediator (HVEM), when expressed on thymocytes provides signals for positive selection. HVEM deficiency in double-positive (DP) thymocytes impaired positive selection of CD8 thymocytes. HVEM-deficient thymocytes in OT-1 TCR transgenic mice exhibited significant defects in positive selection and impaired CD69 upregulation of selected thymocytes. HVEM ligands (lymphotoxin-like, exhibits inducible expression, and competes with HSV glycoprotein D for HVEM, a receptor expressed by T lymphocytes, and B and T lymphocyte attenuator) were expressed in cortical thymic epithelial cells. Weak TCR ligation combined with HVEM signals enhanced ERK activation in DP thymocytes developed in vitro. Insufficient signals for positive selection in HVEM-deficient DP thymocytes led to the development of innate memory-like CD8 T cells expressing high levels of CD122, along with the increased development of PLZF+ NKT cells. These results suggest that thymocytes receive activation signals through HVEM during positive selection. Thus, our findings provide evidence that the threshold of thymocyte positive selection is set by signals from TCR in association with HVEM.
Tumor-specific CD8+ T cells are critical components of antitumor immunity; however, factors that modulate their phenotype and function have not been completely elucidated. Cytokines IL-12 and IL-27 have recognized roles in promoting CD8+ T cells' effector function and mediated antitumor responses. Tumor-specific CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) can be identified based on surface expression of CD39, whereas bystander CD8+ TILs do not express this enzyme. It is currently unclear how and why tumor-specific CD8+ T cells uniquely express CD39. Given the important roles of IL-12 and IL-27 in promoting CD8+ T cell functionality, we investigated whether these cytokines could modulate CD39 expression on these cells. Using in vitro stimulation assays, we identified that murine splenic CD8+ T cells differentially upregulate CD39 in the presence of IL-12 and IL-27. Subsequently, we assessed the exhaustion profile of IL-12- and IL-27-induced CD39+CD8+ T cells. Despite the greatest frequency of exhausted CD39+CD8+ T cells after activation with IL-12, as demonstrated by the coexpression of TIM-3+PD-1+LAG-3+ and reduced degranulation capacity, these cells retained the ability to produce IFN-γ. IL-27-induced CD39+CD8+ T cells expressed PD-1 but did not exhibit a terminally exhausted phenotype. IL-27 was able to attenuate IL-12-mediated inhibitory receptor expression on CD39+CD8+ T cells but did not rescue degranulation ability. Using an immunogenic neuro-2a mouse model, inhibiting IL-12 activity reduced CD39+CD8+ TIL frequency compared with controls without changing the overall CD8+ TIL frequency. These results provide insight into immune regulators of CD39 expression on CD8+ T cells and further highlight the differential impact of CD39-inducing factors on the phenotype and effector functions of CD8+ T cells.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the differences of transcriptome profile between 2 groups of high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) patients with distinct outcomes and identify potential biomarkers for recurrence.METHODS: RNA sequencing was performed in 2 groups of HGSOC patients with similar demographic characteristics but exhibiting distinct progression-free survival (PFS). Transcriptome data of poor response (PR; PFS ≤6 months) and good response (GR; PFS ≥12 months) group were compared. We employed xCell to evaluate the abundance of 63 cells in tumor microenvironment. The predictive value of recurrence-related tumor infiltration cells was validated in cohort data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset. The weighted correlation network analysis was performed to identify the genes related to cell infiltration.RESULTS: PR patients exhibited a distinct tumor infiltration immune cells-related transcriptional profile compared to GR patients, such as lower signatures of leukocyte differentiation, activation and chemotaxis. The fraction of T-helper 2 (Th2) cells infiltration was significantly higher in PR group than in GR group. High infiltration of Th2 was significantly associated with unfavorable prognosis in the GEO cohort (area under the curve=0.84 at 6 months recurrence) and TCGA cohort (p=0.008). Genes enriched to extracellular matrix organization and integrin binding were relevant to Th2 infiltration.CONCLUSION: Patients with HGSOC having shorter PFS exhibited a distinct gene signature that related to tumor-infiltrating immune cells. The level of Th2 infiltration could facilitate patient recurrence risk stratification and may be a promising biomarker for prognosis prediction and immune-related treatment.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and leukemia stem cells (LSCs) have robust self-renewal potential, which is responsible for sustaining normal and malignant hematopoiesis, respectively. Although considerable efforts have been made to explore the regulation of HSC and LSC maintenance, the underlying molecular mechanism remains obscure. Here, we observe that the expression of thymocyte-expressed, positive selection-associated 1 (Tespa1) is markedly increased in HSCs after stresses exposure. Of note, deletion of Tespa1 results in short-term expansion but long-term exhaustion of HSCs in mice under stress conditions due to impaired quiescence. Mechanistically, Tespa1 can interact with CSN subunit 6 (CSN6), a subunit of COP9 signalosome, to prevent ubiquitination-mediated degradation of c-Myc protein in HSCs. As a consequence, forcing c-Myc expression improves the functional defect of Tespa1-null HSCs. On the other hand, Tespa1 is identified to be highly enriched in human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells and is essential for AML cell growth. Furthermore, using MLL-AF9-induced AML model, we find that Tespa1 deficiency suppresses leukemogenesis and LSC maintenance. In summary, our findings reveal the important role of Tespa1 in promoting HSC and LSC maintenance and therefore provide new insights on the feasibility of hematopoietic regeneration and AML treatment.
Porcine circovirus 4 (PCV4) is considered a novel PCV, firstly found in China in 2019 and later discovered in Korea. This present study investigated the prevalence and genetic characteristics of PCV4 from high pig-density areas in Thailand during 2019-2020. From 734 samples, three samples (0.4%) from aborted fetuses and porcine respiratory disease complex (PRDC) cases were found positive for PCV4, two of the PCV4-positive samples were coinfected with both PCV2 and PRRSV, and the other PCV4-positive sample was found coinfected with PCV2. In situ hybridization (ISH) revealed the presence of PCV4 in the bronchial epithelial cells and in lymphocytes and histiocyte-like cells in the lymphoid follicles of the PRDC-affected pig. The complete Thai PCV4 genome had over 98% nucleotide identity with other PCV4 strains and was closely related to the Korean and Chinese PCV4b strains. Importantly, the amino acid residue at position 212 of the Cap gene is recommended for differentiating PCV4a (212L) from PCV4b (212M) based on currently available PCV4 genome sequences. These findings provide important clues for the pathogenesis, epidemiology, and genetic characteristics of PCV4 in Thailand.
Recombinant interferon-α2a (IFNα2a) has been widely used in the treatment of Behcet's uveitis (BU). However, the mechanism underlying its effects remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated its effect on dendritic cells (DCs) and CD4+ T cells, which are essential for the development of BU. Our results showed that the expression of PDL1 and IRF1 was significantly decreased in DCs from active BU patients, and IFNα2a could significantly upregulate PDL1 expression in an IRF1-dependent manner. IFNα2a-treated DCs induced CD4+ T cells apoptosis and inhibited the Th1/Th17 immune response in association with reduced secretion of IFN-γ and IL-17. We also found that IFNα2a promoted Th1 cell differentiation and IL-10 secretion by CD4+ T cells. Finally, a comparison of patients before and after IFNα2a therapy revealed that the frequencies of Th1/Th17 cells significantly decreased in association with remission of uveitis after IFNα2a therapy. Collectively, these results show that IFNα2a could exert its effects by modulating the function of DCs and CD4+ T cells in BU.
A popular species in the pet trade, and therefore in the illegal wildlife trade, the diamond-backed terrapin, Malaclemys terrapin, population has seen significant declines. Associated with the illegal wildlife trade, occasions arise in which terrapins are confiscated, and no standard operating procedures exist for repatriation into the wild. To develop such procedures, an understanding of the pathogens circulating in the wild diamond-backed terrapin population in New Jersey is needed. We sampled 30 wild female diamond-backed terrapins for herpesvirus, Mycoplasmopsis, ranavirus, and intestinal and blood parasites and performed white blood cell counts and differentials and evaluated biochemistry values. Terrapins had an average age of 10 yr (8-15 yr), and 70% were gravid at the time of sampling. Thirty-three percent of the sampled northern diamond-backed terrapins were positive for Mycoplasmopsis sp., and all were negative for ranavirus and herpesviruses. Occasional blood parasites were found, and few intestinal parasites were noted. There was no significant difference between gravid status and any of the blood parameters (P<0.05). Blood chemistry values appeared to vary according to feeding activity; no differences were noted in the values in relation to gravid status. Four terrapins had heterophil to lymphocyte (H:L) ratios above 4.5, significantly higher than the other terrapins sampled, which may indicate inflammation. Two of the four had Mycoplasmopsis, one sample was contaminated by other bacteria and was discarded, and one was negative. No significant difference was found between Mycoplasmopsis infection status and H:L ratio (P=0.926). Our findings, though conducted on a small number of female terrapins at a specific time point, provide data on the pathogens that may be circulating in this population, adding to the current body of knowledge and helping to guide decision making for the reintroduction of confiscated diamond-backed terrapins into New Jersey's wild population.
Immunotherapy has revolutionized the landscape in clinical tumor therapy, although the response rates in "cold" tumors are relatively low owing to the complex tumor microenvironment (TME). Cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate synthase/stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS/STING) pathway-inducing agents can reprogram the TME; however, their applications remain underutilized. Herein, we engineered a facile manganese-based metal-organic framework (Mn-MOF) encapsulating polyphyllin I (PPI) and coated it with red blood cell (RBC) membranes (RBC@Mn-MOF/PPI) that enhanced the cGAS/STING-mediated antitumor immunity. RBC@Mn-MOF/PPI was engineered by camouflaging it with a biomimetic RBC membrane for prolonged blood circulation and immune escape, which was also extended with TME-sensitive properties for triggering the release of PPI and Mn2+ to remodel the suppressive TME and augment antitumor immune responses. Furthermore, RBC@Mn-MOF/PPI helped transform cold tumors into "hot" ones by activating immune cells, as evidenced via dendritic cell maturation, cytotoxic T lymphocyte infiltration, and natural killer cell recruitment, thereby targeting primary and abscopal tumors and lung metastatic nodules. Therefore, our engineered nanosystem represents a novel strategy to transform immunologically "cold" tumors into "hot" ones by activating the cGAS/STING pathway, thereby addressing the major challenges associated with immunotherapy.
The BK virus is a polyomavirus known to particularly affect transplant recipients. An important complication caused by BK virus infection in bone marrow transplant patients is hemorrhagic cystitis. We present a 31-year-old male with a history of bone marrow transplantation complicated by graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and was diagnosed with BK virus-related hemorrhagic cystitis. He presented with gross hematuria and suprapubic and penile pain for one week. He has a significant past medical history of acute B-cell lymphocytic leukemia for which he has successfully undergone allogenic bone marrow transplantation, which was complicated by GVHD. Imaging revealed significant bladder wall thickening which prompted an evaluation for BK virus-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. A urinary specimen was sent for BK virus polymerase chain reaction (PCR) which was strongly positive, confirming the infection. He was managed supportively throughout his hospitalization and improved with symptomatic management alone. Our case demonstrates one of the main complications caused by the BK virus in allogeneic bone marrow transplant patients in the setting of GVHD and is an important differential to keep in mind when treating patients presenting with hematuria after bone marrow transplantation.
INTRODUCTION: This study provides evidence of how Th1 cell metabolism is modulated by the purinergic receptor P2X7 (P2RX7), a cation cannel activated by high extracellular concentrations of adenosine triphosphate (ATP).METHODS: In vivo analysis was performed in the Plasmodium chabaudi model of malaria in view of the great relevance of this infectious disease for human health, as well as the availability of data concerning Th1/Tfh differentiation.RESULTS: We show that P2RX7 induces T-bet expression and aerobic glycolysis in splenic CD4+ T cells that respond to malaria, at a time prior to Th1/Tfh polarization. Cell-intrinsic P2RX7 signaling sustains the glycolytic pathway and causes bioenergetic mitochondrial stress in activated CD4+ T cells. We also show in vitro the phenotypic similarities of Th1-conditioned CD4+ T cells that do not express P2RX7 and those in which the glycolytic pathway is pharmacologically inhibited. In addition, in vitro ATP synthase blockade and the consequent inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation, which drives cellular metabolism for aerobic glycolysis, is sufficient to promote rapid CD4+ T cell proliferation and polarization to the Th1 profile in the absence of P2RX7.CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate that P2RX7-mediated metabolic reprograming for aerobic glycolysis is a key event for Th1 differentiation and suggest that ATP synthase inhibition is a downstream effect of P2RX7 signaling that potentiates the Th1 response.
Objective Our study aimed to retrospectively evaluate Enterobius-associated appendicitis cases and compare them with acute appendicitis cases in terms of parameters such as the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), C-reactive protein (CRP)-to-lymphocyte ratio (CLR), platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and systemic immune-inflammation index (SII). We primarily aimed to evaluate the utility of SII in the differential diagnosis of Enterobius-associated appendicitis. Methods The appendectomy specimens of pediatric patients who were operated on for acute appendicitis between June 2016 and August 2022 were retrospectively evaluated. Enterobius-associated appendicitis cases were included for analysis. All patients were evaluated regarding age, gender, blood count, surgery, and pathology reports. Pathology reports were evaluated for the presence of histological signs of acute appendicitis. The patients were classified into an Enterobius-associated appendicitis group and a regular acute appendicitis group. CRP, white blood cell (WBC), red cell distribution width (RDW), neutrophils, lymphocytes, NLR, monocytes, eosinophils, platelet (PLT), PLR, CLR, and SII values were compared between the two groups. Results Eleven cases of Enterobius-associated appendicitis were identified out of 430 total cases (2.55%) examined. The mean age of the group with acute appendicitis was 12.83 ±3.16 years, while the mean age of the group with Enterobius-associated appendicitis was 8.55 ±2.54 years. There was no statistically significant difference in terms of CRP, WBC, RDW, lymphocytes, neutrophils, NLR, monocytes, eosinophils, PLT, PLR, and CLR values between the two groups (p>0.05). However, when the SII values of the participants were analyzed, it was observed that the SII values of the participants in the regular appendicitis group were significantly higher than those of the participants in the Enterobius group (p<0.05). Among the 11 Enterobius-associated appendicitis patients, seven appendectomy specimens revealed no inflammation and were regarded as negative appendectomy (63.63%). Conclusion This is the first study to demonstrate the utility of preoperative SII evaluation in Enterobius-associated appendicitis. SII is a simple, easy-to-calculate indicator of Enterobius-associated appendicitis and aids in the preoperative differential diagnosis of acute appendicitis.
PURPOSE: Programmed death-1 (PD-1) and T cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain-containing molecule 3(Tim-3) may be used as the biomarkers for the therapy in patients with peritoneal neoplasms. In the current study, the differential percentages of peripheral PD-1 and Tim-3 are explored to investigate whether to associate with primary sites and pathological types of patients with peritoneal neoplasms or not. We also investigated the frequencies of PD-1 and Tim-3 on circulating Lymphocytes, CD3 + T cells, CD3 + CD4 + T cells and CD3 + CD8 + T cells if would correlate with the progression-free survival of peritoneal neoplasms patients.METHODS: 115 patients with peritoneal neoplasms were recruited, subjected to multicolor flow cytometric analyses of the percentages of PD-1 and Tim-3 receptors of circulating Lymphocytes, CD3 + T cells, CD3 + CD4 + T cells and CD3 + CD8 + T cells. The peritoneal neoplasms patients were divided into primary group and secondary group depending on whether the tumor had primary focus and limited to peritoneal tumor or not. Then all the patients were regrouped by the pathological types of neoplasms (adenocarcinoma, mesothelioma, and pseudomyxoma). The secondary peritoneal neoplasms group was divided into the different primary site groups (colon, gastric, gynecology). This study also enrolled 38 cases of normal volunteers. The above markers were explored by flow cytometer, to find the differential levels in peritoneal neoplasms patients compared with normal group in peripheral blood.RESULTS: Higher levels of CD4 + T lymphocytes, CD8 + T lymphocytes, CD45 + PD-1 + lymphocytes, CD3 + PD-1 + T cells, CD3 + CD4 + PD-1 + T cells, CD3 + CD8 + PD-1 + T cells and CD45 + Tim-3 + lymphocytes were found in peritoneal neoplasms group than normal control (the p value was respectively 0.004, 0.047, 0.046, 0.044, 0.014, 0.038 and 0.017). Compared with primary peritoneal neoplasms group, the percentages of CD45 + PD-1 + lymphocytes, CD3 + PD-1 + T cells, and CD3 + CD4 + PD-1 + T cells were increased in the secondary peritoneal neoplasms group (the p value was respectively 0.010, 0.044, and 0.040), while PD-1 did not correlate with the primary sites in secondary group (P > 0.05). Tim-3 had no statistical differences in primary peritoneal neoplasms group compared with secondary group (p > 0.05), but CD45 + Tim-3+% lymphocytes, CD3 + Tim-3+%T cells, and CD3 + CD4 + Tim-3 + T cells were associated with different secondary sites of peritoneal neoplasms (p < 0.05). In the different pathological type groups, the percentages of CD45 + PD-1 + lymphocytes, CD3 + PD-1 + T cells presented the higher levels in adenocarcinoma group compared with mesothelioma group (p = 0.048, p = 0.045). The frequencies of CD45 + PD-1 + lymphocytes and CD3 + PD-1 + T cells in peripheral blood were associated with progression-free survival (PFS).CONCLUSIONS: Our work uncovers peripheral PD-1 and Tim-3 percentages are associated with primary sites and pathological types of peritoneal neoplasms. Those findings might provide important assessment to predict peritoneal neoplasms patients' immunotherapy responses.
Regulation of intron retention (IR), a form of alternative splicing, is a newly recognized checkpoint in gene expression. Since there are numerous abnormalities in gene expression in the prototypic autoimmune disease systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we sought to determine whether IR was intact in patients with this disease. We, therefore, studied global gene expression and IR patterns of lymphocytes in SLE patients. We analyzed RNA-seq data from peripheral blood T cell samples from 14 patients suffering from systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and 4 healthy controls and a second, independent data set of RNA-seq data from B cells from16 SLE patients and 4 healthy controls. We identified intron retention levels from 26,372 well annotated genes as well as differential gene expression and tested for differences between cases and controls using unbiased hierarchical clustering and principal component analysis. We followed with gene-disease enrichment analysis and gene-ontology enrichment analysis. Finally, we then tested for significant differences in intron retention between cases and controls both globally and with respect to specific genes. Overall decreased IR was found in T cells from one cohort and B cells from another cohort of patients with SLE and was associated with increased expression of numerous genes, including those encoding spliceosome components. Different introns within the same gene displayed both up- and down-regulated retention profiles indicating a complex regulatory mechanism. These results indicate that decreased IR in immune cells is characteristic of patients with active SLE and may contribute to the abnormal expression of specific genes in this autoimmune disease.
GATA3 is essential for T cell differentiation and is surrounded by genome-wide association study (GWAS) hits for immune traits. Interpretation of these GWAS hits is challenging because gene expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) studies lack power to detect variants with small effects on gene expression in specific cell types and the genome region containing GATA3 contains dozens of potential regulatory sequences. To map regulatory sequences for GATA3, we performed a high-throughput tiling deletion screen of a 2 Mb genome region in Jurkat T cells. This revealed 23 candidate regulatory sequences, all but one of which is within the same topological-associating domain (TAD) as GATA3. We then performed a lower-throughput deletion screen to precisely map regulatory sequences in primary T helper 2 (Th2) cells. We tested 25 sequences with ∼100 bp deletions and validated five of the strongest hits with independent deletion experiments. Additionally, we fine-mapped GWAS hits for allergic diseases in a distal regulatory element, 1 Mb downstream of GATA3, and identified 14 candidate causal variants. Small deletions spanning the candidate variant rs725861 decreased GATA3 levels in Th2 cells, and luciferase reporter assays showed regulatory differences between its two alleles, suggesting a causal mechanism for this variant in allergic diseases. Our study demonstrates the power of integrating GWAS signals with deletion mapping and identifies critical regulatory sequences for GATA3.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by dopaminergic neurons degeneration in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Increasing evidence indicates that peripheral CD4+ T cells, a vital pathological component of PD, have been implicated in systemic inflammation activation, blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction, central nervous system infiltration, and consequent neurons degeneration. However, there is no consensus on CD4+ T cell types' exact phenotypic characteristics in systemic inflammation and the mechanism of CD4+ T cells traffic into the BBB in patients with PD. In this study, we employed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to elucidate the potential mechanism of T cells on the breakdown of BBB. The PD-associated Cytotoxic CD4+ T cells (CD4+ CTLs) were characterized by a significant increase in proportion as well as enhancement of interferon-gamma (IFNG) response and cell adhesion. Meanwhile, TBX21, IRF1 and NFATC2, identified as the key transcription factors in effector CD4+ T cells differentiation, induced overexpression of target genes-IFNG in CD4+ CTLs. Interestingly, endothelial cells (ECs) in PD patients were discovered to be more responsive to IFNG than other cell types of midbrain. Furthermore, the cell-cell communication analysis between CD4+ T cells and midbrain cells identified IFNG/IFNGR1 and SPP1/ITGB1 as the ligand-receptor pairs to mediate CD4+ CTLs' infiltration into the central nervous system (CNS) through the weakened ECs' tight junction. Together, these results suggested that PD-specific peripheral CD4+ CTLs might influence BBB function by migrating to mesencephalic endothelial cells (ECs) and activating the IFNG response in ECs.
PURPOSE OF THE RESEARCH: We proposed T-cell lymphocytopenia as a strategic predictor of serious coronavirus and influenza infections. Our preeminent goal was to determine whether a degree of T-cell lymphopenia would identify a distinct threshold cell count to differentiate between severe and non-severe infections. We codified an Index Severity Score to exploit an association between T-cell cytopenia and the grade of disease activity.PRINCIPAL RESULT: A T-cell count of 560 cells/uL or below signified a trend towards advanced disease.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) are destructive joint diseases, the development of which are associated with the expansion of pathogenic T lymphocytes. Mesenchymal stem cells may be an attractive therapeutic option for patients with RA or OA due to the regenerative and immunomodulatory abilities of these cells. The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is a rich and easily available source of mesenchymal stem cells (adipose-derived stem cells, ASCs). However, the phenotypic, potential and immunomodulatory properties of ASCs have not been fully characterised. We aimed to evaluate the phenotype, regenerative potential and effects of IFP-derived ASCs from RA and OA patients on CD4+ T cell proliferation. The MSC phenotype was assessed using flow cytometry. The multipotency of MSCs was evaluated on the basis of their ability to differentiate into adipocytes, chondrocytes and osteoblasts. The immunomodulatory activities of MSCs were examined in co-cultures with sorted CD4+ T cells or peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The concentrations of soluble factors involved in ASC-dependent immunomodulatory activities were assessed in co-culture supernatants using ELISA. We found that ASCs with PPIs from RA and OA patients maintain the ability to differentiate into adipocytes, chondrocytes and osteoblasts. ASCs from RA and OA patients also showed a similar phenotype and comparable abilities to inhibit CD4+ T cell proliferation, which was dependent on the induction of soluble factors The results of our study constitute the basis for further research on the therapeutic potential of ASCs in the treatment of patients with RA and OA.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic and autoimmune disease characterized by inflammation, autoimmune dysfunction, and cartilage and bone destruction. In this review, we summarized the available reports on the protective effects of Ganoderma lucidum polysaccharides (GLP) on RA in terms of anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, anti-angiogenic and osteoprotective effects. Firstly, GLP inhibits RA synovial fibroblast (RASF) proliferation and migration, modulates pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines and reduces synovial inflammation. Secondly, GLP regulates the proliferation and differentiation of antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells, inhibits phagocytosis by mononuclear macrophages and nature killer (NK) cells and regulates the ratio of M1, M2 and related inflammatory cytokines. In addition, GLP produced activities in balancing humoral and cellular immunity, such as regulating immunoglobulin production, modulating T and B lymphocyte proliferative responses and cytokine release, exhibiting immunomodulatory effects. Thirdly, GLP inhibits angiogenesis through the direct inhibition of vascular endothelial cell proliferation and induction of cell death and the indirect inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production in the cells. Finally, GLP can inhibit the production of matrix metalloproteinases and promote osteoblast formation, exerting protective effects on bone and articular cartilage. It is suggested that GLP may be a promising agent for the treatment of RA.
Background and Objectives: Since the first cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) in April 2020, the diagnostic challenge has been to recognize this syndrome and to differentiate it from other clinically similar pathologies such as Kawasaki disease (KD) and toxic shock syndrome (TSS). Our objective is to compare clinical signs, laboratory data and instrumental investigations between patients with MIS-C, KD and TSS. Materials and Methods: This retrospective observational study was conducted at the Children's Clinical University Hospital, Latvia (CCUH). We collected data from all pediatric patients <18 years of age, who met the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention case definition for MIS-C, and who presented to CCUH between December 2020 and December 2021. We also retrospectively reviewed data from inpatient medical records of patients <18 years of age diagnosed as having KD and TSS at CCUH between December 2015 and December 2021. Results: In total, 81 patients were included in this study: 39 (48.1%) with KD, 29 (35.8%) with MIS-C and 13 (16.1%) with TSS. In comparison with TSS and KD, patients with MIS-C more often presented with gastrointestinal symptoms (abdominal pain (p < 0.001), diarrhea (p = 0.003)), shortness of breath (p < 0.02) and headache (p < 0.003). All MIS-C patients had cardiovascular involvement and 93.1% of MIS-C patients fulfilled KD criteria, showing higher prevalence than in other research. Patients with KD had higher prevalence of cervical lymphadenopathy (p < 0.006) and arthralgias (p < 0.001). In comparison with KD and TSS, MIS-C patients had higher levels of ferritin (p < 0.001), fibrinogen (p = 0.04) and cardiac biomarkers, but lower levels of platelets and lymphocytes (p < 0.001). KD patients tended to have lower peak C-reactive protein (CRP) (p < 0.001), but higher levels of platelets. Acute kidney injury was more often observed in TSS patients (p = 0.01). Pathological changes in electrocardiography (ECG) and echocardiography were significantly more often observed in MIS-C patients (p < 0.001). Conclusions: This research shows that MIS-C, KD and TSS have several clinical similarities and additional investigations are required for reaching final diagnosis. All the patients with suspected MIS-C diagnosis should be examined for possible cardiovascular involvement including cardiac biomarkers, ECG and echocardiography.
Chronic lymphocytic inflammation with pontine perivascular enhancement responsive to steroids (CLIPPERS) syndrome is a rare inflammatory disease of an undetermined aetiology. The condition is characterised by a range of clinical manifestations generally associated with damage to brainstem structures, the cerebellum, with characteristic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings. The main feature is a good clinical and radiological response to glucocorticosteroid (GCS)-based immunosuppressive treatment. The diagnosis of CLIPPERS is difficult and requires extensive differential diagnosis. A specific biomarker in serum or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for this disorder is currently unknown. The pathogenesis of CLIPPERS remains poorly understood and its nosological position has not yet been established. Whether CLIPPERS represents an independent, genuine new disorder or a syndrome in the course of diseases with heterogeneous aetiology and/or their precursor stages remains debatable and incompletely clarified. We present a case report of a patient who was diagnosed with CLIPPERS syndrome on the basis of her clinical and radiological features and by performing an extensive differential diagnosis. The patient has been under neurological follow-up for five years.
BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel diseases (Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis) and microscopic colitis (lymphocytic and collagenous colitis) are immune-mediated diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, with distinct pathophysiology.OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare the prevalence of autoimmune diseases between microscopic colitis (MC) and inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) in our patient cohorts in their medical history.METHODS: We collected data from 611 patients (508 with IBD, 103 with MC). We recorded cases of other autoimmune diseases. The screened documentation was written in the period between 2008 and 2022. We sought to determine whether colonic involvement had an impact on the prevalence of autoimmune diseases.RESULTS: Ulcerative colitis patients and patients with colonic-predominant Crohn's disease had a greater propensity for autoimmune conditions across the disease course than patients with ileal-predominant Crohn's disease. Gluten-related disorders were more common in Crohn's disease than in ulcerative colitis, and slightly more common than in microscopic colitis. In ulcerative colitis, 10 patients had non-differentiated collagenosis registered, which can later develop into a definite autoimmune disease.CONCLUSIONS: Predominantly colonic involvement can be a predisposing factor for developing additional autoimmune disorders in IBD. Ulcerative colitis patients may have laboratory markers of autoimmunity, without fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for definitive autoimmune disorders (non-differentiated collagenosis).
IL-38 is an IL-1 family receptor antagonist with an emerging role in chronic inflammatory diseases. IL-38 expression has been mainly observed not only in epithelia, but also in cells of the immune system, including macrophages and B cells. Given the association of both IL-38 and B cells with chronic inflammation, we explored if IL-38 affects B cell biology. IL-38-deficient mice showed higher amounts of plasma cells (PC) in lymphoid organs but, conversely, lower levels of plasmatic antibody titers. Exploring underlying mechanisms in human B cells revealed that exogenously added IL-38 did not significantly affect early B cell activation or differentiation into plasma cells, even though IL-38 suppressed upregulation of CD38. Instead, IL-38 mRNA expression was transiently upregulated during the differentiation of human B cells to plasma cells in vitro, and knocking down IL-38 during early B cell differentiation increased plasma cell generation, while reducing antibody production, thus reproducing the murine phenotype. Although this endogenous role of IL-38 in B cell differentiation and antibody production did not align with an immunosuppressive function, autoantibody production induced in mice by repeated IL-18 injections was enhanced in an IL-38-deficient background. Taken together, our data suggest that cell-intrinsic IL-38 promotes antibody production at baseline but suppresses the production of autoantibodies in an inflammatory context, which may partially explain its protective role during chronic inflammation.
Proteomic DNA Damage Repair (DDR) expression patterns in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia were characterized by quantifying and clustering 24 total and phosphorylated DDR proteins. Overall, three protein expression patterns (C1-C3) were identified and were associated as an independent predictor of distinct patient overall survival outcomes. Patients within clusters C1 and C2 had poorer survival outcomes and responses to fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituxan chemotherapy compared to patients within cluster C3. However, DDR protein expression patterns were not prognostic in more modern therapies with BCL2 inhibitors or a BTK/PI3K inhibitor. Individually, nine of the DDR proteins were prognostic for predicting overall survival and/or time to first treatment. When looking for other proteins that may be associated with or influenced by DDR expression patterns, our differential expression analysis found that cell cycle and adhesion proteins were lower in clusters compared to normal CD19 controls. In addition, cluster C3 had a lower expression of MAPK proteins compared to the poor prognostic patient clusters thus implying a potential regulatory connection between adhesion, cell cycle, MAPK, and DDR signaling in CLL. Thus, assessing the proteomic expression of DNA damage proteins in CLL provided novel insights for deciphering influences on patient outcomes and expanded our understanding of the potential complexities and effects of DDR cell signaling.
The risk of toxicity attributable to radioiodine therapy (RIT) remains a subject of ongoing research, with a whole-body dose of 2 Gy proposed as a safe limit. This article evaluates the RIT-induced cytogenetic damage in two rare differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) cases, including the first follow-up study of a pediatric DTC patient. Chromosome damage in the patient's peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) was examined using conventional metaphase assay, painting of chromosomes 2, 4, and 12 (FISH), and multiplex fluorescence in situ hybridization (mFISH). Patient 1 (female, 1.6 y.o.) received four RIT courses over 1.1 years. Patient 2 (female, 49 y.o.) received 12 courses over 6.4 years, the last two of which were examined. Blood samples were collected before and 3-4 days after the treatment. Chromosome aberrations (CA) analyzed by conventional and FISH methods were converted to a whole-body dose accounting for the dose rate effect. The mFISH method showed an increase in total aberrant cell frequency following each RIT course, while cells carrying unstable aberrations predominated in the yield. The proportion of cells containing stable CA associated with long-term cytogenetic risk remained mostly unchanged during follow-up for both patients. A one-time administration of RIT was safe, as the threshold of 2 Gy for the whole-body dose was not exceeded. The risk of side effects projected from RIT-attributable cytogenetic damage was low, suggesting a good long-term prognosis. In rare cases, such as the ones reviewed in this study, individual planning based on cytogenetic biodosimetry is strongly recommended.
BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to investigate how the systemic inflammation response index (SIRI), systemic immune-inflammation index (SII), neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and platelet/lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and radiomic metrics (quantitative descriptors of image content) extracted from MRI sequences by machine learning increase the efficacy of proper presurgical differentiation between benign and malignant salivary gland tumors.METHODS: A retrospective study of 117 patients with salivary gland tumors was conducted between January 2015 and November 2022. Univariate analyses with nonparametric tests and multivariate analyses with machine learning approaches were used.RESULTS: Inflammatory biomarkers showed statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) in the Kruskal-Wallis test based on median values in discriminating Warthin tumors from pleomorphic adenoma and malignancies. The accuracy of NLR, PLR, SII, and SIRI was 0.88, 0.74, 0.76, and 0.83, respectively. Analysis of radiomic metrics to discriminate Warthin tumors from pleomorphic adenoma and malignancies showed statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) in nine radiomic features. The best multivariate analysis result was obtained from an SVM model with 86% accuracy, 68% sensitivity, and 91% specificity for six features.CONCLUSIONS: Inflammatory biomarkers and radiomic features can comparably support a pre-surgical differential diagnosis.
B cell-activating factor (BAFF; also known as CD257, TNFSF13B, BLyS) and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL; also known as CD256, TNFSF13) belong to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family. BAFF was initially discovered as a B-cell survival factor, whereas APRIL was first identified as a protein highly expressed in various cancers. These discoveries were followed by over two decades of extensive research effort, which identified overlapping signaling cascades between BAFF and APRIL, controlling immune homeostasis in health and driving pathogenesis in autoimmunity and cancer, the latter being the focus of this review. High levels of BAFF, APRIL, and their receptors have been detected in different cancers and found to be associated with disease severity and treatment response. Here, we have summarized the role of the BAFF-APRIL system in immune cell differentiation and immune tolerance and detailed its pathogenic functions in hematological and solid cancers. We also highlight the emerging therapeutics targeting the BAFF-APRIL system in different cancer types.
Background: Head and neck cancer (HNC) has a high mortality rate, with late diagnosis remaining the most important factor affecting patient survival. Therefore, it is imperative to identify markers that aid in early detection and prediction of disease progression. HNCs evade the immune system by different mechanisms, including immune checkpoints. Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein-4 (CTLA-4) is an immune checkpoint receptor that downregulates anti-tumour immune responses, with evidence of involvement in HNC. The less studied, alternatively spliced, soluble isoform (sCTLA-4) also plays an immunosuppressive role that contributes to immune escape. We quantified sCTLA-4 in normal, potentially malignant, and malignant oral and oropharyngeal tissues to elucidate any role in tumourigenesis and identify its potential as a biomarker for diagnosis and patient stratification. Methods: Normal, low- and high-grade epithelial dysplasia, and squamous cell carcinoma oral and oropharyngeal biopsies were selectively stained for sCTLA-4 and quantified using the image analysis software QuPath. Results: Distinct sCTLA-4 staining patterns were observed, in which normal epithelial sCTLA-4 expression correlated with keratinocyte differentiation, while disrupted expression, both in intensity and localisation, was observed in dysplastic and neoplastic tissues. Conclusions: Our data indicate an additional, previously unknown role for sCTLA-4 in epithelial cell differentiation and proliferation. Furthermore, our findings suggest the potential of sCTLA-4 as a biomarker for predicting disease progression and patient stratification for targeted HNC therapies.
BACKGROUND: Factors involved in inflammation and cancer interact in various ways with each other, and biomarkers of systemic inflammation may have a prognostic value in cancer. Glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) plays a pivotal role in glucose transport and metabolism and it is aberrantly expressed in various cancer types. We evaluated the differential expression of GLUT1, along with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and then analyzed their prognostic significance.METHODS: A total of 163 patients with resectable NSCLC were included in this study. Tumor sections were immunohistochemically stained for GLUT1 and GLUT3. Maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) was measured by preoperative FDG-PET, and neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and lymphocyte-monocyte ratio (LMR) were derived from pretreatment blood count.RESULTS: GLUT1 and GLUT3 was positively expressed in 74.8% and 6.1% of the NSCLC tissues, respectively. GLUT1 expression was significantly correlated with squamous cell carcinoma histology, poor differentiation, high pathologic stage, old age, male, smoking, and high SUVmax (>7) (all p < 0.05). The squamous cell carcinoma and smoker group also showed significantly higher SUVmax (both p < 0.001). Systemic inflammation markers, including NLR, PLR, and LMR, were positively correlated with high SUVmax (all p < 0.05). High GLUT1 expression, high SUVmax, high NLR, and low LMR, were significantly associated with poor overall survival in patients with NSCLC. However, in the multivariate survival analysis, LMR was an independent prognostic factor overall (HR 1.86, 95% CI 1.05-3.3) and for the stage I/II cohort (HR 2.3, 95% CI 1.24-4.3) (all p < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Systemic inflammatory markers-NLR, PLR, and LMR are strongly correlated with the SUVmax and are indicators of aggressive tumor behavior. Specifically, LMR is a promising prognostic biomarker in NSCLC patients.
Despite the rising public awareness of the risk factors and the possible prevention of melanoma development, it remains challenging in terms of diagnosis and treatment. To improve the clinical situation of patients, it would be especially beneficial to develop prognostic methods for the effective and continuous assessment of the disease course. The solution could lie in the selection of effective biomarkers derived from the tumor microenvironment, increasing the effectiveness of melanoma prognoses and monitoring. Hence, in this study, we evaluated the number of circulating melanoma cells (CMCs) in representative blood samples of melanoma patients vs. healthy controls, as well as the proportion of particular cytotoxic T cells in the total lymphocyte and leukocyte population as a reflection of immune resistance. The results were correlated with the clinical parameters of the patients to examine the potential value of CMC quantification and lymphoid cell phenotyping in melanoma diagnostics, prognostics, and treatment outcome monitoring. The CMC numbers were significantly higher in melanoma patients than in healthy controls. However, an analysis of the correlations between the baseline CMC counts and the clinical parameters found no significant results. In turn, we found significant differences between the groups in the percentage of various profiles of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes characterized by TIGIT and TIM-3 differential expression. Importantly, the CMC number correlated with CD8+TIGIT+ and CD8+TIGIT+TIM-3- cytotoxic T cell counts in the melanoma patient group. Considering the above, the combination of CMCs and the immunological status of the patient, as defined by the prevalence of selected immune cell types, seems to be a promising approach in melanoma diagnostics and prognostics.
Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a chronic T cell-mediated inflammatory disease. Interferon (IFN)-γ has been suggested to be vital for the OLP immune responses. A prominent innate-like lymphocyte subset, γδ T cells, span the innate-adaptive continuum and exert immune effector functions by producing a wide spectrum of cytokines, including IFN-γ. The involvement and mechanisms of γδ T cells in the pathogenesis of OLP remain obscure. The expression of γδ T cells in lesion tissues and in the peripheral blood of OLP patients was determined via flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry, respectively. Human leukocyte antigen-DR (HLA-DR), cluster of differentiation (CD) 69, Toll-like receptors (TLRs), natural killer group 2, member D (NKG2D) and IFN-γ were detected in γδ T cells of OLP patients using flow cytometry. Additionally, the involvement of stimulator of the interferon genes (STING)-TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) pathway in γδ T cells was evaluated by multi-color immunofluorescence. Western blotting was employed to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of γδ T cells in OLP. γδ T cells were significantly upregulated in the lesion tissues, whereas their peripheral counterparts were downregulated in OLP patients. Meanwhile, increased frequencies of local CD69+ and NKG2D+ γδ T cells and peripheral HLA-DR+ and TLR4+ γδ T cells were detected in OLP. Furthermore, significant co-localization of STING and TBK1 was observed in the γδ T cells of OLP lesions. In addition, enhanced IFN-γ and interleukin (IL)-17A were positively associated with the activated STING-TBK1 pathway and γδ T cells in OLP. Taken together, the upregulated STING-TBK1 pathway in activated γδ T cells might participate in the regulation of immune responses in OLP.
The syndrome of limbic encephalitis is a severe clinical condition with heterogenous aetiopathogenesis. A common pathogen causing the infectious syndrome of limbic encephalitis is herpes simplex virus (HSV), but rare cases caused by Treponema pallidum have also been reported. We present the case of a 46-year-old man who presented with sudden onset of headaches, nausea, vomiting, and short-term loss of consciousness with clonic convulsions and subsequent disorientation and aphasia. Examination of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) revealed lymphocytic pleocytosis and magnetic resonance of the brain revealed bilateral temporal lesions. Clinical, radiologic, and biochemical examinations of CSF suggested encephalitis caused by HSV. However, the positivity of CXCL-13 chemokine in the CSF by a rapid point-of-care assay suggested active spirochetal infection and led to further serologic investigation. The definitive diagnosis of neuro-syphilis was concluded by positive intrathecal synthesis of immunoglobulins against Treponema pallidum. Penicillin therapy led to a rapid improvement, and the patient was discharged home after three weeks. Due to memory problems and irritability, after eighteen months, he came for a follow-up neurological and psychological examination. The psychological examination revealed a significant deficit in executive functions and behavioural changes. Neurosyphilis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of limbic encephalitis with lymphocytic pleocytosis in cerebrospinal fluid, and CXCL-13 may help to achieve diagnosis.
Immune dysregulation is implicated in the pathophysiology of both bipolar and major depressive disorder, while immune cell ratios (IRCs) have recently been proposed as clinically applicable immune biomarkers. We investigated IRCs differences in affective disorders and their association with current mood episodes and clinical features. This retrospective cohort study analyzed neutrophil-lymphocyte (NLR), monocyte-lymphocyte (MLR), and platelet-lymphocyte (PLR) ratios upon admission in 135 affective disorder in-patients with mania (MA, n = 36), bipolar depression (BiD, n = 38), and unipolar depression (MDD, n = 61). Demographic, clinical, and immune data were extracted from medical records. Monocyte count was significantly higher in BiD compared to MDD (p < 0.001). Multivariable regression models suggested higher NLR in MA compared to MDD (p = 0.039), higher MLR in both MA and BiD compared to MDD (p < 0.001 and p = 0.004 respectively), while we found neither group differences in PLR nor an effect of type and duration of hospitalization, current psychotic, or suicidal features and psychiatric history on IRCs. Here, we show that IRCs are elevated in bipolar disorder versus MDD and affected by mood episode, while MLR could be especially valuable in the differential diagnosis between bipolar and unipolar depression. IRCs represent inexpensive, routinely accessible and clinically applicable biomarkers with diagnostic validity in affective disorders that could be easily implemented as illness activity indicators, to better follow the course of illness and eventually predict relapse or treatment response and, thus, guide therapeutic targeting.
BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy has been shown to have some therapeutic effects in rodent models and patients with IBD; however, its role in colon tumor models is controversial. In this study, the potential role and mechanisms of bone marrow-derived MSCs (BM-MSCs) in colitis-associated colon cancer (CAC) were investigated.METHODS: The CAC mouse model was established with azoxymethane (AOM) and dextran sulfate sodium (DSS). The mice were administered an intraperitoneal injection of MSCs once weekly for different periods. The progression of CAC and the cytokine expression in tissues was assessed. Immunofluorescence staining was used to detect MSCs localization. Levels of immune cells in the spleen and lamina propria of the colon were detected using flow cytometry. A co-culture of MSCs and naïve T cells was performed to determine the effect of MSCs on naïve T cell differentiation.RESULTS: Early administration of MSCs inhibited the occurrence of CAC, while late administration promoted the progression of CAC. The inhibitory effect of early injection in mice was characterized by the expression of inflammatory cytokines in colon tissue was decreased, and induction of T regulatory cells (Tregs) infiltration via TGF-β. The promotive effect of late injection was characterized by a shift of T helper (Th) 1/Th2 immune balance toward a Th2 phenotype through IL-4 secretion. IL-12 can reverse this shift to Th2 accumulation in mice.CONCLUSION: MSCs can curb the progression of colon cancer by inducing Treg accumulation via TGF-β at the early stage of inflammatory transformation but promote the progression of colon cancer by inducing a shift in Th1/Th2 immune balance to Th2 through IL-4 secretion at the late stage. And the immune balance of Th1/Th2 influenced by MSCs could be reversed by IL-12.
BACKGROUND: Colonic diverticulitis is a leading cause of abdominal pain. The monocyte distribution width (MDW) is a novel inflammatory biomarker with prognostic significance for coronavirus disease and pancreatitis; however, no study has assessed its correlation with the severity of colonic diverticulitis.METHODS: This single-center retrospective cohort study included patients older than 18 years who presented to the emergency department between November 1, 2020, and May 31, 2021, and received a diagnosis of acute colonic diverticulitis after abdominal computed tomography. The characteristics and laboratory parameters of patients with simple versus complicated diverticulitis were compared. The significance of categorical data was assessed using the chi-square or Fisher's exact test. The Mann-Whitney U test was used for continuous variables. Multivariable regression analysis was performed to identify predictors of complicated colonic diverticulitis. Receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves were used to test the efficacy of inflammatory biomarkers in distinguishing simple from complicated cases.RESULTS: Of the 160 patients enrolled, 21 (13.125%) had complicated diverticulitis. Although right-sided was more prevalent than left-sided colonic diverticulitis (70% versus 30%), complicated diverticulitis was more common in those with left-sided colonic diverticulitis (61.905%, p = 0.001). Age, white blood cell (WBC) count, neutrophil count, C-reactive protein (CRP) level, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and MDW were significantly higher in the complicated diverticulitis group (p < 0.05). Logistic regression analysis indicated that the left-sided location and the MDW were significant and independent predictors of complicated diverticulitis. The area under the ROC curve (AUC) was as follows: MDW, 0.870 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.784-0.956); CRP, 0.800 (95% CI, 0.707-0.892); NLR, 0.724 (95% CI, 0.616-0.832); PLR, 0.662 (95% CI, 0.525-0.798); and WBC, 0.679 (95% CI, 0.563-0.795). When the MDW cutoff was 20.38, the sensitivity and specificity were maximized to 90.5% and 80.6%, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: A large MDW was a significant and independent predictor of complicated diverticulitis. The optimal cutoff value for MDW is 20.38 as it exhibits maximum sensitivity and specificity for distinguishing between simple and complicated diverticulitis The MDW may aid in planning antibiotic therapy for patients with colonic diverticulitis in the emergency department.
BACKGROUND: The neutrophil-to-lymphocyte-ratio (NLR), neutrophil-to-monocyte-plus-lymphocyte-ratio (NMLR) and monocyte-to-lymphocyte-ratio (MLR) may have diagnostic potential for tuberculosis (TB).METHODS: Data of two prospective multicenter studies in Switzerland were used, which included children <18 years with TB exposure, infection or disease or with febrile non-TB lower-respiratory-tract infection (nTB-LRTI).RESULTS: Of the 389 children included 25 (6.4%) had TB disease, 12 (3.1%) TB infection, 28 (7.2%) were healthy TB exposed and 324 (83.3%) nTB-LRTI. Median (IQR) NLR was highest with 2.0 (1.2, 2.2) in children with TB disease compared to TB exposed [0.8 (0.6, 1.3); P = 0.002] and nTB-LRTI [0.3 (0.1, 1.0); P < 0.001]. Median (IQR) NMLR was highest with 1.4 (1.2, 1.7) in children with TB disease compared to healthy exposed [0.7 (0.6, 1.1); P = 0.003] and children with nTB-LRTI [0.2 (0.1, 0.6); P < 0.001). Receiver operating characteristic curves to detect TB disease compared to nTB-LRTI for NLR and NMLR had an area under the curve of 0.82 and 0.86, the sensitivity of 88% and 88%, and specificity of 71% and 76%, respectively.CONCLUSION: NLR and NMLR are promising, easy-to-obtain diagnostic biomarkers to differentiate children with TB disease from other lower respiratory tract infections. These results require validation in a larger study and in settings with high and low TB endemicity.
"γc" cytokines are a family whose receptors share a "common-gamma-chain" signaling moiety, and play central roles in differentiation, homeostasis, and communications of all immunocyte lineages. As a resource to better understand their range and specificity of action, we profiled by RNAseq the immediate-early responses to the main γc cytokines across all immunocyte lineages. The results reveal an unprecedented landscape: broader, with extensive overlap between cytokines (one cytokine doing in one cell what another does elsewhere) and essentially no effects unique to any one cytokine. Responses include a major downregulation component and a broad Myc-controlled resetting of biosynthetic and metabolic pathways. Various mechanisms appear involved: fast transcriptional activation, chromatin remodeling, and mRNA destabilization. Other surprises were uncovered: IL2 effects in mast cells, shifts between follicular and marginal zone B cells, paradoxical and cell-specific cross-talk between interferon and γc signatures, or an NKT-like program induced by IL21 in CD8+ T cells.
BACKGROUND: The study aimed to ascertain whether a diagnostic strategy combining D-dimer with the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) could improve the discriminative performance for aortic dissection (AD).RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Baseline levels of D-dimer and NLR were measured in patients suspected of AD. The diagnostic performance and clinical usefulness of D-dimer, NLR, and their combination were assessed and compared using receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis, logistic regression analysis, net reclassification improvement (NRI), integrated discrimination improvement (IDI), and decision curve analysis (DCA).RESULTS: The levels of D-dimer and NLR were both significantly higher in AD patients. The combined use displayed good discriminatory performance with an area under ROC curve (AUC) of 0.869, which was preferable to that of D-dimer. Although no meaningful improvement was found in the AUC by comparison with NLR alone, the combined use could significantly improve the discrimination power with a continuous NRI of 60.0% and an IDI of 4.9%. DCA demonstrated that the net benefit of the combined use was preferred over that of either single test.CONCLUSIONS: The combined use of D-dimer and NLR could improve the discriminatory efficiency for AD with the potential in clinical application. This study may provide a novel diagnostic strategy for AD. More studies need to be done to confirm the findings of this study.
Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a rare and very dangerous condition characterized by abnormal activation of the immune system, causing hemophagocytosis, inflammation, and potentially widespread organ damage. The primary (genetic) form, caused by mutations affecting lymphocyte cytotoxicity, is most commonly seen in children. Secondary HLH is commonly associated with infections, malignancies, and rheumatologic disorders. Most current information on diagnosis and treatment is based on pediatric populations. HLH is a disease that should be diagnosed and treated promptly, otherwise it is fatal. Treatment is directed at treating the triggering disorder, along with symptomatic treatment with dexamethasone and etoposide. We present a 56-year-old patient who was admitted with worsening weakness, exertional dyspnea, dry and nonproductive cough, and a 5-pound weight loss associated with loss of appetite. This is among the rare disorders that are not commonly encountered in day-to-day practice. Our differential diagnoses were broad, including infection, such as visceral leishmaniasis, atypical/tuberculous mycobacteria, histoplasmosis, Ehrlichia, Bartonella, Brucella, Adenovirus, disseminated herpes simplex virus (HSV), hematological-like Langerhans cell histiocytosis, or multicentric Castleman disease; drug reaction, such as drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS); and metabolic disorder, including Wolman's disease (infantile lysosomal acid lipase deficiency) or Gaucher's disease. Based on our investigations as described in our case report, it was narrowed down to hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis and COVID-19. Two COVID-19 tests were negative. His lab abnormalities and diagnostic testing revealed hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. He was empirically started on antibiotics and dexamethasone, to be continued for 2 weeks then tapered if the patient showed continued improvement. Dexamethasone was tapered over 8 weeks. He improved on just one of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved medications, proving that treatment should be tailored to the patient. In addition, in this case study, we included the background, etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, management, and prognosis of HLH.
Distinct immune patterns of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) may have prognostic implications in the response to transarterial chemoembolization (TACE). Thus, we aimed to exploratively analyze tumor tissue of HCC patients who do or do not respond to TACE, and to identify novel prognostic biomarkers predictive of response to TACE. We retrospectively included 15 HCC patients who had three consecutive TACE between January 2019 and November 2019. Eight patients had a response while seven patients had no response to TACE. All patients had measurable disease according to mRECIST. Corresponding tumor tissue samples were processed for differential expression profiling using NanoString nCounter® PanCancer immune profiling panel. Immune-related pathways were broadly upregulated in TACE responders. The top differentially regulated genes were the upregulated CXCL1 (log2fc 4.98, Benjamini-Hochberg (BH)-p < 0.001), CXCL6 (log2fc 4.43, BH-p = 0.016) and the downregulated MME (log2fc -4.33, BH-p 0.001). CD8/T-regs was highly increased in responders, whereas the relative number of T-regs to tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) was highly decreased. We preliminary identified CXCL1 and CXCL6 as candidate genes that might have the potential to serve as therapeutically relevant biomarkers in HCC patients. This might pave the way to improve patient selection for TACE in HCC patients beyond expert consensus.
BACKGROUND/AIM: Malignant melanoma is a fatal skin cancer and is among the most immunogenic malignancies expressing melanoma-differentiation antigens and neoantigens. SRY-related HMG-box 10 (SOX10) is a transcription factor and a neural-crest differentiation marker that is used as a diagnostic marker for melanoma whilst playing a role in melanoma initiation through activation of the SOX10-MITF axis. SOX10 was shown to play a role in melanoma initiation by inducing expression of immune checkpoint molecules (e.g., HVEM and CEACAM1). In this study, we aimed to investigate the relationship between SOX10 and the expression an immune checkpoint molecule, programmed death-1 ligand 1 (PD-L1).MATERIALS AND METHODS: SOX10 overexpression and knockdown was performed using SOX10 gene transfection and SOX10 siRNA transfection into A375 melanoma cells. PD-L1 expression was assessed by flow cytometry and western blotting. T cell response was evaluated using NY-ESO-1 specific TCR-transduced T (TCR-T) cells by IFNγ ELISPOT assay.RESULTS: SOX10 overexpression increased the expression of PD-L1, whereas SOX10 knockdown, using siRNA, decreased its expression. IFNγ ELISPOT assay revealed that overexpression of SOX10 decreased the susceptibility of cells to NY-ESO-1-specific TCR-T cells.CONCLUSION: SOX10 has a role in the intrinsic immune suppressive mechanisms of melanoma through expression of PD-L1.
BACKGROUND/AIM: Loss of differentiation of breast cancer cells in association with a down-regulated class I human leukocyte antigen (HLA) expression can lead to proliferation unhampered by cytotoxic T lymphocytes, which has been proven to be of prognostic relevance. The objective of this study was to determine the levels of HLA-A and HLA-B/C expression in metastatic breast cancer (MBC) cells and their usefulness for predicting 5-year survival.MATERIALS AND METHODS: This prospective double-blinded cohort study analyzed patients starting a new line of therapy for MBC. RT-qPCR was used to determine the levels of HLA-A and B/C expression in MBC cells and the mRNA-based tumor intrinsic subtype. Two receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC) were constructed in order to determine whether HLA-A and HLA-B/C expression levels can be used for predicting 5-year survival. Youden J points, and sensitivity and specificity optimized cut-off points were determined for both ROC curves.RESULTS: We enrolled 34 patients. The ROC curve for HLA-B/C had the highest AUC compared to HLA-A (0.55 vs. 0.42). High levels of HLA-A and HLA-B/C expression (40-ΔΔCT of 33.5 and 31.9, respectively) were highly specific (reaching 87.5% for HLA-A and even 100% specificity for HLA-B/C) yet insensitive for five-year survival in our study.CONCLUSION: High expression of certain class I HLA molecule subtypes by MBCs, in particular high HLA-A or B/C expression by MBC cells seems very specific in predicting the 5-year survival. We determined cut-off values for these HLA molecule clusters with high specificity, which might help identify patients with a favorable prognosis as prognosticators of a 5-year overall survival if their sensitivity is improved in larger prospective cohorts.
Although exosome therapy has been recognized as a promising strategy in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), sustained modulation on RA specific pathogenesis and desirable protective effects for attenuating joint destruction still remain challenges. Here, silk fibroin hydrogel encapsulated with olfactory ecto-mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (Exos@SFMA) was photo-crosslinked in situ to yield long-lasting therapeutic effect on modulating the immune microenvironment in RA. This in situ hydrogel system exhibited flexible mechanical properties and excellent biocompatibility for protecting tissue surfaces in joint. Moreover, the promising PD-L1 expression was identified on the exosomes, which potently suppressed Tfh cell polarization via inhibiting the PI3K/AKT pathway. Importantly, Exos@SFMA effectively relieved synovial inflammation and joint destruction by significantly reducing T follicular helper (Tfh) cell response and further suppressing the differentiation of germinal center (GC) B cells into plasma cells. Taken together, this exosome enhanced silk fibroin hydrogel provides an effective strategy for the treatment of RA and other autoimmune diseases.
BACKGROUND: Both the crystalline and soluble forms of cholesterol increase macrophage secretion of interleukin 1β (IL-1β), aggravating the inflammatory response in atherosclerosis (AS). However, the link between cholesterol and regulatory T cells (Tregs) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effect of cholesterol treatment on Tregs.METHODS: Differentiation of induced Tregs (iTregs) was analyzed using flow cytometry. The expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1a (HIF-1a) and its target genes was measured by western blotting and/or RT-qPCR. Two reporter jurkat cell lines were constructed by lentiviral transfection. Mitochondrial function and the structure of natural Tregs (nTregs) were determined by tetramethylrhodamine (TMRM) and mitoSOX staining, Seahorse assay, and electron microscopy. The immunoregulatory function of nTregs was determined by nTreg-macrophage co-culture assay and ELISA.RESULTS: Cholesterol treatment suppressed iTreg differentiation and impaired nTreg function. Mechanistically, cholesterol induced the production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) in naïve T cells, inhibiting the degradation of HIF-1α and unleashing its inhibitory effects on iTreg differentiation. Furthermore, cholesterol-induced mitochondrial oxidative damage impaired the immunosuppressive function of nTregs. Mixed lymphocyte reaction and nTreg-macrophage co-culture assays revealed that cholesterol treatment compromised the ability of nTregs to inhibit pro-inflammatory conventional T cell proliferation and promote the anti-inflammatory functions of macrophages. Finally, mitoTEMPO (MT), a specific mtROS scavenger, restored iTreg differentiation and protected nTreg from further deterioration.CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that cholesterol may aggravate inflammation within AS plaques by acting on both iTregs and nTregs, and that MT may be a promising anti-atherogenic drug.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) is a heterogeneous B cell neoplasm ranging from indolent to rapidly progressive disease. Leukemic cell subsets with regulatory properties evade immune clearance; however, the contribution of such subsets during CLL progression is not completely elucidated. Here, we report that CLL B cells crosstalk with their immune counterparts, notably by promoting the regulatory T (Treg) cell compartment and shaping several helper T (Th) subsets. Among various constitutively- and BCR/CD40-mediated factors secreted, tumour subsets co-express two important immunoregulatory cytokines, IL10 and TGFβ1, both associated with a memory B cell phenotype. Neutralizing secreted IL10 or inhibiting the TGFβ signalling pathway demonstrated that these cytokines are mainly involved in Th- and Treg differentiation/maintenance. In line with the regulatory subsets, we also demonstrated that a CLL B cell population expresses FOXP3, a marker of regulatory T cells. Analysis of IL10, TGFβ1 and FOXP3 positive subpopulations frequencies in CLL samples discriminated 2 clusters of untreated CLL patients that were significantly different in Tregs frequency and time-to-treatment. Since this distinction was pertinent to disease progression, the regulatory profiling provides a new rationale for patient stratification and sheds light on immune dysfunction in CLL.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the novel key genes and biological processes that may lead to primary Sjögren' s syndrome (pSS).METHODS: We downloaded datasets about peripheral blood samples of pSS patients and healthy controls (GSE51092, GSE84844, and GSE66795) from Gene Expression Omnibus database. The weighted co-expression network analysis and differential expression analysis first were implemented. After that, protein-protein network interaction and Support Vector Machines were applied in the meantime to take intersection for key genes. Moreover, we conducted immune cell infiltration analysis to explore the relationship between the gene expression and concentration of immune cells in peripheral blood. Lastly, the expression of key genes was verified in pSS patients and murine models by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. Meanwhile, correlation analysis of gene expression and disease activity was also performed.RESULTS: Only 1 key gene, interferon induced with helicase c domain 1 (IFIH1), was identified to be both significantly up-regulated and important for the diagnosis of pSS. The increased expression of IFIH1 in peripheral blood was confirmed in data sets, patients and non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice. Its expression was correlated with disease activity in patients as well. In addition, the IFIH1 expression was also increased in spleen and salivary glands infiltrated with lymphocytes in NOD mice. Furthermore, immune cell infiltration analysis showed that the expression of IFIH1 was positively correlated with the proportion of memory B cells and activated dendritic cells, and negatively correlated with the proportion of macrophage M0.CONCLUSIONS: Here, bioinformatics analyses and experimental assays were performed to provide a new insight for understanding of pSS. IFIH1 may be a new diagnostic marker or therapeutic target for pSS.
Regulatory T cell (Treg) therapy is a promising approach to improve outcomes in transplantation and autoimmunity. In conventional T cell therapy, chronic stimulation can result in poor in vivo function, a phenomenon termed exhaustion. Whether or not Tregs are also susceptible to exhaustion, and if so, if this would limit their therapeutic effect, was unknown. To "benchmark" exhaustion in human Tregs, we used a method known to induce exhaustion in conventional T cells: expression of a tonic-signaling chimeric antigen receptor (TS-CAR). We found that TS-CAR-expressing Tregs rapidly acquired a phenotype that resembled exhaustion and had major changes in their transcriptome, metabolism, and epigenome. Similar to conventional T cells, TS-CAR Tregs upregulated expression of inhibitory receptors and transcription factors such as PD-1, TIM3, TOX and BLIMP1, and displayed a global increase in chromatin accessibility-enriched AP-1 family transcription factor binding sites. However, they also displayed Treg-specific changes such as high expression of 4-1BB, LAP, and GARP. DNA methylation analysis and comparison to a CD8+ T cell-based multipotency index showed that Tregs naturally exist in a relatively differentiated state, with further TS-CAR-induced changes. Functionally, TS-CAR Tregs remained stable and suppressive in vitro but were nonfunctional in vivo, as tested in a model of xenogeneic graft-versus-host disease. These data are the first comprehensive investigation of exhaustion in Tregs and reveal key similarities and differences with exhausted conventional T cells. The finding that human Tregs are susceptible to chronic stimulation-driven dysfunction has important implications for the design of CAR Treg adoptive immunotherapy strategies.
Izumo1R is a pseudo-folate receptor with an essential role in mediating tight oocyte/spermatozoa contacts during fertilization. Intriguingly, it is also expressed in CD4+ T lymphocytes, in particular Treg cells under the control of Foxp3. To understand Izumo1R function in Treg cells, we analyzed mice with Treg-specific Izumo1r deficiency (Iz1rTrKO). Treg differentiation and homeostasis were largely normal, with no overt autoimmunity and only marginal increases in PD1+ and CD44hi Treg phenotypes. pTreg differentiation was also unaffected. Iz1rTrKO mice proved uniquely susceptible to imiquimod-induced, γδT cell-dependent, skin disease, contrasting with normal responses to several inflammatory or tumor challenges, including other models of skin inflammation. Analysis of Iz1rTrKO skin revealed a subclinical inflammation that presaged IMQ-induced changes, with an imbalance of Rorγ+ γδT cells. Immunostaining of normal mouse skin revealed the expression of Izumo1, the ligand for Izumo1R, electively in dermal γδT cells. We propose that Izumo1R on Tregs enables tight contacts with γδT cells, thereby controlling a particular path of skin inflammation.
A 29-year-old woman was referred for US of bilateral breasts during evaluation for noncyclical mastalgia predominantly in the left breast of 8 months duration. She had been taking selective serotonin receptor inhibitors for the past 6 months for a clinical diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder. A detailed medical history revealed breast cancer in the patient's mother and grandmother. There was no history of weight loss or appetite loss, nor was there a history of any altered bowel or bladder habits. The patient was overweight, with a body mass index of 26.8 kg/m2, and appeared anxious during the general physical examination, with an increased pulse (102 beats per minute) and normal blood pressure (118/82 mm Hg). Local examination revealed multiple small mobile painful lesions that were palpable in all quadrants of the bilateral breasts, anterior abdominal wall, and forearm. On further questioning, the patient reported similar painful lesions were present in her mother and one brother. Laboratory investigations showed a normal hemoglobin level (12.4 g/dL; normal range, 12-15 g/dL), a total leukocyte count of 9000 cells per microliter (9 cells × 109/L) (normal range, 4500-11 000 cells per microliter [4.5-11 cells × 109/L]), a normal differential leukocyte count (74% neutrophils [normal range, 40%-80%], 24% lymphocytes [normal range, 20%-40%], and 2% eosinophils [normal range, 1%-4%]), and an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 5 mm per hour (normal range, 0-29 mm per hour). High-frequency US of bilateral breasts was performed in conjunction with Color Doppler US and shear-wave elastography of representative lesions in the breasts. Similar lesions were also found in the subcutaneous plane of the right forearm and the anterior abdominal wall.
Despite the uncertainty of the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus, novel small molecules targeting specific intracellular mechanisms of immune cells are being developed to reverse the pathophysiological processes. These targeted molecules have the advantages of convenient administration, lower production costs, and the lack of immunogenicity. The Janus kinases, Bruton's tyrosine kinases, and spleen tyrosine kinases are important enzymes for activating downstream signals from various receptors on immune cells that include cytokines, growth factor, hormones, Fc, CD40, and B-cell receptors. Suppression of these kinases impairs cellular activation, differentiation, and survival, leading to diminished cytokine actions and autoantibody secretion. Intracellular protein degradation by immunoproteasomes, levered by the cereblon E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, is an essential process for the regulation of cellular functions and survival. Modulation of the immunoproteasomes and cereblon leads to depletion of long-lived plasma cells, reduced plasmablast differentiation, and production of autoantibodies and interferon-α. The sphingosine 1-phosphate/sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor-1 pathway is responsible for lymphocyte trafficking, regulatory T-cell/Th17 cell homeostasis, and vascular permeability. Sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor-1 modulators limit the trafficking of autoreactive lymphocytes across the blood-brain barrier, increase regulatory T-cell function, and decrease production of autoantibodies and type I interferons. This article summarizes the development of these targeted small molecules in the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus, and the future prospect for precision medicine.
Elucidating the mechanisms underlying the persistence and location of the HIV reservoir is critical for developing cure interventions. While it has been shown that levels of T-cell activation and the size of the HIV reservoir are greater in rectal tissue and lymph nodes (LN) than in blood, the relative contributions of T-cell subsets to this anatomic difference are unknown. We measured and compared HIV-1 DNA content, expression of the T-cell activation markers CD38 and HLA-DR, and expression of the exhaustion markers programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and T-cell immunoreceptor with immunoglobulin and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif domains (TIGIT) in naive, central memory (CM), transitional memory (TM), and effector memory (EM) CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells in paired blood and LN samples among 14 people with HIV who were receiving antiretroviral therapy. HIV-1 DNA levels, T-cell immune activation, and TIGIT expression were higher in LN than in blood, especially in CM and TM CD4+ T-cell subsets. Immune activation was significantly higher in all CD8+ T-cell subsets, and memory CD8+ T-cell subsets from LN had higher levels of PD-1 expression, compared with blood, while TIGIT expression levels were significantly lower in TM CD8+ T-cells. The differences seen in CM and TM CD4+ T-cell subsets were more pronounced among participants with CD4+ T-cell counts of <500 cells/μL within 2 years after antiretroviral therapy initiation, thus highlighting increased residual dysregulation in LN as a distinguishing feature of and a potential mechanism for individuals with suboptimal CD4+ T-cell recovery during antiretroviral therapy. IMPORTANCE This study provides new insights into the contributions of different CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell subsets to the anatomic differences between LN and blood in individuals with HIV who have optimal versus suboptimal CD4+ T-cell recovery. To our knowledge, this is the first study comparing paired LN and blood CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell differentiation subsets, as well as those subsets in immunological responders versus immunological suboptimal responders.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is characterized by a range of symptoms in which host immune response have been associated with disease progression. However, the putative role of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in determining COVID-19 outcomes has not been thoroughly investigated. Here, we compared peripheral Tregs between volunteers not previously infected with SARS-CoV-2 (healthy control [HC]) and volunteers who recovered from mild (Mild Recovered) and severe (Severe Recovered) COVID-19. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were stimulated with SARS-CoV-2 synthetic peptides (Pool Spike CoV-2 and Pool CoV-2) or staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB). Results of a multicolor flow cytometric assay showed higher Treg frequency and expression of IL-10, IL-17, perforin, granzyme B, PD-1, and CD39/CD73 co-expression in Treg among the PBMC from the Mild Recovered group than in the Severe Recovered or HC groups for certain SARS-CoV-2 related stimulus. Moreover, Mild Recovered unstimulated samples presented a higher Tregs frequency and expression of IL-10 and granzyme B than did that of HC. Compared with Pool CoV-2 stimuli, Pool Spike CoV-2 reduced IL-10 expression and improved PD-1 expression in Tregs from volunteers in the Mild Recovered group. Interestingly, Pool Spike CoV-2 elicited a decrease in Treg IL-17+ frequency in the Severe Recovered group. In HC, the expression of latency-associated peptide (LAP) and cytotoxic granule co-expression by Tregs was higher in Pool CoV-2 stimulated samples. While Pool Spike CoV-2 stimulation reduced the frequency of IL-10+ and CTLA-4+ Tregs in PBMC from volunteers in the Mild Recovered group who had not experienced certain symptoms, higher levels of perforin and perforin+granzyme B+ co-expression by Tregs were found in the Mild Recovered group in volunteers who had experienced dyspnea. Finally, we found differential expression of CD39 and CD73 among volunteers in the Mild Recovered group between those who had and had not experienced musculoskeletal pain. Collectively, our study suggests that changes in the immunosuppressive repertoire of Tregs can influence the development of a distinct COVID-19 clinical profile, revealing that a possible modulation of Tregs exists among volunteers of the Mild Recovered group between those who did and did not develop certain symptoms, leading to mild disease.
BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of differentiation-related genes (DRGs) in tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).METHODS: Single cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data from GEO and bulk RNA-seq data from TCGA were analyzed to identify DRGs using trajectory method. Functional gene analysis was carried out by GO/KEGG enrichment analysis. The mRNA and protein expression in human tissue were analyzed by HPA and GEPIA databases. To investigate the prognostic value of these genes, three risk score (RS) models in different pathological types of NSCLC were generated and predicted NSCLC prognosis in datasets from TCGA, UCSC and GEO databases.RESULTS: 1,738 DRGs were identified through trajectory analysis. GO/KEGG analysis showed that these genes were predominantly related to myeloid leukocyte activation and leukocyte migration. 13 DRGs (C1QB, CCL4, CD14, CD84, FGL2, MS4A6A, NLRP3, PLEK, RNASE6, SAMSN1, SPN, TMEM176B, ZEB2) related to prognosis were obtained through univariate Cox analysis and Lasso regression. C1QB, CD84, FGL2, MS4A6A, NLRP3, PLEK, SAMSN1, SPN, and ZEB2 were downregulated in NSCLC compared to non-cancer tissue. The mRNA of 13 genes were significantly expressed in pulmonary macrophages with strong cell specificity. Meanwhile, immunohistochemical staining showed that C1QB, CCL4, SPN, CD14, NLRP3, SAMSN1, MS4A6A, TMEM176B were expressed in different degrees in lung cancer tissues. ZEB2 (HR=1.4, P<0.05) and CD14 (HR=1.6, P<0.05) expression were associated with a worse prognosis in lung squamous cell carcinoma; ZEB2 (HR=0.64, P<0.05), CD84 (HR=0.65, P<0.05), PLEK (HR=0.71, P<0.05) and FGL2 (HR=0.61, P<0.05) expression were associated with a better prognosis in lung adenocarcinoma. Three RS models based on 13 DRGs both showed that the high RS was significantly associated with poor prognosis in different pathological types of NSCLC.CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the prognostic value of DRGs in TAMs in NSCLC patients, providing novel insights for the development of therapeutic and prognostic targets based on TAM functional differences.
Thymocyte selection-associated high mobility group box protein (TOX) is expressed differently at all T lymphocytes development stages. Owing to more advanced scientific and technological means, including single-cell sequencing technology, heterogeneity of T lymphocytes and TOX has gradually been revealed. Further exploration of such heterogeneity will help us comprehend the developmental stage and functional characteristics of T lymphocytes in greater detail. Emerging evidence supports its regulation not only in exhausting, but also in activating T lymphocytes, thereby verifying TOX heterogeneity. TOX can be used not only as a latent intervention target for tumor diseases and chronic infections, and a therapeutic strategy for autoimmune diseases, but also as a critical factor predicting the drug response and overall survival of patients with malignant tumors.
NLRP12 has dual roles in shaping inflammation. We hypothesized that NLRP12 would modulate myeloid cells and T cell function to control systemic autoimmunity. Contrary to our hypothesis, the deficiency of Nlrp12 in autoimmune-prone B6.Faslpr/lpr mice ameliorated autoimmunity in males but not females. Nlrp12 deficiency dampened B cell terminal differentiation, germinal center reaction, and survival of autoreactive B cells leading to decreased production of autoantibodies and reduced renal deposition of IgG and complement C3. In parallel, Nlrp12 deficiency reduced the expansion of potentially pathogenic T cells, including double-negative T cells and T follicular helper cells. Furthermore, reduced pro-inflammatory innate immunity was observed, where the gene deletion decreased in-vivo expansion of splenic macrophages and mitigated ex-vivo responses of bone marrow-derived macrophages and dendritic cells to LPS stimulation. Interestingly, Nlrp12 deficiency altered the diversity and composition of fecal microbiota in both male and female B6/lpr mice. Notably, however, Nlrp12 deficiency significantly modulated small intestinal microbiota only in male mice, suggesting that the sex differences in disease phenotype might be gut microbiota-dependent. Together, these results suggest a potential pathogenic role of NLRP12 in promoting systemic autoimmunity in males. Future studies will investigate sex-based mechanisms through which NLRP12 differentially modulates autoimmune outcomes.
INTRODUCTION: Aplasia and hematological malignancies are treated with platelet transfusions, which can have major immunomodulatory effects. Platelet concentrates (PCs) contain many immunomodulatory elements, including the platelets themselves, residual leukocytes, extracellular vesicles, such as microparticles (MPs), cytokines and other soluble elements. Two of these components, MPs and a soluble form of CD27 (sCD27), have been shown to play a particularly important role in immune system modulation. The loss of CD27 expression is an irreversible marker of terminal effector CD3+ T-lymphocyte (TL) differentiation, and the CD27+ MPs present in PCs may maintain CD27 expression on the surface of TLs, and, thus, the activation of these cells.METHODS: In this study, we phenotyped the CD27-expressing MPs present in PCs by microscale flow cytometry and investigated the interaction of these particles with CD4+ TLs. We cocultured MPs and PBMCs and determined the origin of the CD27 expressed on the surface of CD4+ TLs with the aid of two fluorochromes (BV510 for CD27 originating from MPs and BV786 for cellular CD27).RESULTS: We showed that the binding of CD27- expressing MPs involved the CD70 molecule, which was also present on these MPs. Finally, the maintenance of CD27 expression on the surface of TLs by sorted CD27+ MPs led to activation levels lower than those observed with other types of MPs.DISCUSSION: These results for CD27-expressing MPs and their CD70-mediated targeting open up new possibilities for immunotherapy based on the use of MPs to maintain a phenotype or to target immune cells, for example. Moreover, decreasing the levels of CD27-expressing MPs in transfused platelets might also increase the chances of success for anti-CD27 monoclonal immunotherapy.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are heterogeneous innate immune cells which participate in host defense, mucosal repair and immunopathology by producing effector cytokines similarly to their adaptive immune cell counterparts. The development of ILC1, 2, and 3 subsets is controlled by core transcription factors: T-bet, GATA3, and RORγt, respectively. ILCs can undergo plasticity and transdifferentiate to other ILC subsets in response to invading pathogens and changes in local tissue environment. Accumulating evidence suggests that the plasticity and the maintenance of ILC identity is controlled by a balance between these and additional transcription factors such as STATs, Batf, Ikaros, Runx3, c-Maf, Bcl11b, and Zbtb46, activated in response to lineage-guiding cytokines. However, how interplay between these transcription factors leads to ILC plasticity and the maintenance of ILC identity remains hypothetical. In this review, we discuss recent advances in understanding transcriptional regulation of ILCs in homeostatic and inflammatory conditions.
Zetomipzomib (KZR-616) is a selective inhibitor of the immunoproteasome currently undergoing clinical investigation in autoimmune disorders. Here, we characterized KZR-616 in vitro and in vivo using multiplexed cytokine analysis, lymphocyte activation and differentiation, and differential gene expression analysis. KZR-616 blocked production of >30 pro-inflammatory cytokines in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), polarization of T helper (Th) cells, and formation of plasmablasts. In the NZB/W F1 mouse model of lupus nephritis (LN), KZR-616 treatment resulted in complete resolution of proteinuria that was maintained at least 8 weeks after the cessation of dosing and was mediated in part by alterations in T and B cell activation, including reduced numbers of short and long-lived plasma cells. Gene expression analysis of human PBMCs and tissues from diseased mice revealed a consistent and broad response focused on inhibition of T, B, and plasma cell function and the Type I interferon pathway and promotion of hematopoietic cell lineages and tissue remodeling. In healthy volunteers, KZR-616 administration resulted in selective inhibition of the immunoproteasome and blockade of cytokine production following ex vivo stimulation. These data support the ongoing development of KZR-616 in autoimmune disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)/LN.
BACKGROUND: Allograft kidney rejection can lead to graft dysfunction and graft loss. Protocol biopsy poses additional risk for recipients with normal renal function. The transcriptome of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) contains tremendous information and has potential application value for non-invasive diagnosis.METHODS: From the Gene Expression Omnibus database, we collected three datasets containing 109 rejected samples and 215 normal controls. After data filter and normalization, we performed deconvolution of bulk RNA sequencing data to predict cell type and cell-type specific gene expression. Subsequently, we calculated cell communication analysis by Tensor-cell2cell and conducted the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) logistic regression to screen the robust differentially expressed genes (DEGs). These gene expression levels were validated in mice kidney transplantation acute rejection model. The function of the novel gene ISG15 in monocytes was further confirmed by gene knockdown and lymphocyte-stimulated assay.RESULTS: The bulk RNA-seq hardly predicted kidney transplant rejection accurately. Seven types of immune cells and transcriptomic characteristics were predicted from the gene expression data. The monocytes showed significant differences in amount and gene expression of rejection. The cell-to-cell communication indicated the enrichment of antigen presentation and T cell activation ligand-receptor pairs. Then 10 robust genes were found by Lasso regression and a novel gene ISG15 remained differential expression in monocytes between rejection samples and normal control both in public data and animal model. Furthermore, ISG15 also showed a critical role in promoting the proliferation of T cells.CONCLUSION: This study identified and validated a novel gene ISG15 associated with rejection in peripheral blood after kidney transplantation, which is a significant non-invasive diagnosis and a potential therapeutic target.
Chromosomal instability (CIN), the persistent reshuffling of chromosomes during mitosis, is a hallmark of human cancers that contributes to tumor heterogeneity and has been implicated in driving metastasis and altering responses to therapy. Though multiple mechanisms can produce CIN, lagging chromosomes generated from abnormal merotelic attachments are the major cause of CIN in a variety of cell lines, and are expected to predominate in cancer. Here, we quantify CIN in breast cancer using a tumor microarray, matched primary and metastatic samples, and patient-derived organoids from primary breast cancer. Surprisingly, misaligned chromosomes are more common than lagging chromosomes and represent a major source of CIN in primary and metastatic tumors. This feature of breast cancers is conserved in a majority of breast cancer cell lines. Importantly, though a portion of misaligned chromosomes align before anaphase onset, the fraction that remain represents the largest source of CIN in these cells. Metastatic breast cancers exhibit higher rates of CIN than matched primary cancers, primarily due to increases in misaligned chromosomes. Whether CIN causes immune activation or evasion is controversial. We find that misaligned chromosomes result in immune-activating micronuclei substantially less frequently than lagging and bridge chromosomes and that breast cancers with greater frequencies of lagging chromosomes and chromosome bridges recruit more stromal tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. These data indicate misaligned chromosomes represent a major mechanism of CIN in breast cancer and provide support for differential immunostimulatory effects of specific types of CIN.SIGNIFICANCE: We surveyed the single-cell landscape of mitotic defects that generate CIN in primary and metastatic breast cancer and relevant models. Misaligned chromosomes predominate, and are less immunostimulatory than other chromosome segregation errors.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked disorder caused by loss of function mutations in the dystrophin gene (Dmd), resulting in progressive muscle weakening. Here we modelled the longitudinal expression of endogenous Dmd, and its paralogue Utrn, in mice and in myoblasts by generating bespoke bioluminescent gene reporters. As utrophin can partially compensate for Dmd-deficiency, these reporters were used as tools to ask whether chromatin-modifying drugs can enhance Utrn expression in developing muscle. Myoblasts treated with different PRC2 inhibitors showed significant increases in Utrn transcripts and bioluminescent signals, and these responses were independently verified by conditional Ezh2 deletion. Inhibition of ERK1/2 signalling provoked an additional increase in Utrn expression that was also seen in Dmd-mutant cells, and maintained as myoblasts differentiate. These data reveal PRC2 and ERK1/2 to be negative regulators of Utrn expression and provide specialised molecular imaging tools to monitor utrophin expression as a therapeutic strategy for DMD.
BACKGROUND: Antigen-stimulated naïve T cells differentiate into effector and memory T cells, of which resident memory T (TRM) cells reside permanently in organ tissues. Involvement of TRM cells has been indicated in pathological conditions of various skin diseases. CD122, which is the β chain subunit of interleukin (IL)- 2 and IL-15 receptors, is expressed on immune cells including TRM cells.OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether CD122 signaling in skin CD8+ TRM cells mediates the development of mucocutaneous graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).METHODS: We used a genetically modified mouse expressing a membrane-bound form of chicken ovalbumin (OVA) under the control of the keratin 14 promoter, which develops GVHD-like erosive mucocutaneous disease resulting in sclerodermatous disease after transfer of OVA-specific T cell-receptor-transgenic CD8+ OT-I cells. Mice with mucocutaneous GVHD were treated with an anti-CD122 blocking antibody.RESULTS: Administration of an anti-CD122 blocking antibody suppresses the development of acute/chronic GVHD-like mucocutaneous disease in our murine model via the reduction of CD122-expressing memory CD8+ T cells, including skin, memory autoaggressive CD8+ T cells. Moreover, blockade of CD122, even after the establishment of acute GVHD, inhibited the development of chronic GVHD-like sclerodermatous disease via the reduction of epidermal and dermal TRM autoaggressive CD8+ T cells.CONCLUSION: Skin memory CD8+ T cells in particular mediate the development of mucocutaneous GVHD, and blockade of CD122 may be an effective treatment strategy, especially for sclerodermatous GVHD.
BACKGROUND: T cell activation and programming from their naïve/resting state, characterized by widespread modifications in chromatin accessibility triggering extensive changes in transcriptional programs, is orchestrated by several cytokines and transcription regulators. PRDM1 and PRDM2 encode for proteins with PR/SET and zinc finger domains that control several biological processes, including cell differentiation, through epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Different transcripts leading to main protein isoforms with (PR +) or without (PR-) the PR/SET domain have been described. Although many studies have established the critical PRDM1 role in hematopoietic cell differentiation, maintenance and/or function, the single transcript contribution has not been investigated before. Otherwise, very few evidence is currently available on PRDM2. Here, we aimed to analyze the role of PRDM1 and PRDM2 different transcripts as mediators of T lymphocyte activation.METHODS: We analyzed the transcription signature of the main variants from PRDM1 (BLIMP1a and BLIMP1b) and PRDM2 (RIZ1 and RIZ2) genes, in human T lymphocytes and Jurkat cells overexpressing PRDM2 cDNAs following activation through different signals.RESULTS: T lymphocyte activation induced an early increase of RIZ2 and RIZ1 followed by BLIMP1b increase and finally by BLIMP1a increase. The "first" and the "second" signals shifted the balance towards the PR- forms for both genes. Interestingly, the PI3K signaling pathway modulated the RIZ1/RIZ2 ratio in favor of RIZ1 while the balance versus RIZ2 was promoted by MAPK pathway. Cytokines mediating different Jak/Stat signaling pathways (third signal) early modulated the expression of PRDM1 and PRDM2 and the relationship of their different transcripts confirming the early increase of the PR- transcripts. Different responses of T cell subpopulations were also observed. Jurkat cells showed that the acute transient RIZ2 increase promoted the balancing of PRDM1 forms towards BLIMP1b. The stable forced expression of RIZ1 or RIZ2 induced a significant variation in the expression of key transcription factors involved in T lymphocyte differentiation. The BLIMP1a/b balance shifted in favor of BLIMP1a in RIZ1-overexpressing cells and of BLIMP1b in RIZ2-overexpressing cells.CONCLUSIONS: This study provides the first characterization of PRDM2 in T-lymphocyte activation/differentiation and novel insights on PRDM1 and PRDM2 transcription regulation during initial activation phases.
The ongoing debate on whether lymphocytic thrombophilic arteritis (LTA) is a separate disease or a type of polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) has yet to be settled. In this study, we analyzed the nature of infiltrating cells in LTA to resolve this controversy. Skin biopsies from five female patients (mean age 29.4 years, age range 16-45 years) diagnosed with LTA were immunostained for CD3, CD20, CD68, lysozyme, myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen, myeloperoxidase, and PU.1. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the majority of mononuclear cells in all five cases were not lymphocytes but myelomonocytic cells. Given that the infiltrating cells are of the myelomonocyte lineage including immature myeloid cells, PAN was deemed the more appropriate diagnosis for the five cases rather than LTA. Whether PAN with immature myeloid cells (histiocytoid PAN) is the same disease as conventional PAN with mature neutrophils requires further investigation.
Erratum in    Exp Mol Med. 2023 Apr;55(4):870.
During intracellular infection, T follicular helper (TFH) and T helper 1 (TH1) cells promote humoral and cell-mediated responses, respectively. Another subset, CD4-cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CD4-CTLs), eliminate infected cells via functions typically associated with CD8+ T cells. The mechanisms underlying differentiation of these populations are incompletely understood. Here, we identify the transcription factor Aiolos as a reciprocal regulator of TFH and CD4-CTL programming. We find that Aiolos deficiency results in downregulation of key TFH transcription factors, and consequently reduced TFH differentiation and antibody production, during influenza virus infection. Conversely, CD4-CTL programming is elevated, including enhanced Eomes and cytolytic molecule expression. We further demonstrate that Aiolos deficiency allows for enhanced IL-2 sensitivity and increased STAT5 association with CD4-CTL gene targets, including Eomes, effector molecules, and IL2Ra. Thus, our collective findings identify Aiolos as a pivotal regulator of CD4-CTL and TFH programming and highlight its potential as a target for manipulating CD4+ T cell responses.
Lipid rafts are membrane microdomains rich in cholesterol, sphingolipids, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs), and receptors. These lipid raft components are localized at the plasma membrane and are essential for signal transmission and organogenesis. However, few reports have been published on the specific effects of lipid rafts on tooth development. Using microarray and single-cell RNA sequencing methods, we found that a GPI-AP, lymphocyte antigen-6/Plaur domain-containing 1 (Lypd1), was specifically expressed in preodontoblasts. Depletion of Lypd1 in tooth germ using an ex vivo organ culture system and in mouse dental pulp (mDP) cells resulted in the inhibition of odontoblast differentiation. Activation of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling by BMP2 treatment in mDP cells promoted odontoblast differentiation via phosphorylation of Smad1/5/8, while this BMP2-mediated odontoblast differentiation was inhibited by depletion of Lypd1. Furthermore, we created a deletion construct of the C terminus containing the omega site in LYPD1; this site is necessary for localizing GPI-APs to the plasma membrane and lipid rafts. We identified that this site is essential for odontoblast differentiation and morphological change of mDP cells. These findings demonstrated that LYPD1 is a novel marker of preodontoblasts in the developing tooth; in addition, they suggest that LYPD1 is important for tooth development and that it plays a pivotal role in odontoblast differentiation by regulating Smad1/5/8 phosphorylation through its effect as a GPI-AP in lipid rafts.
The thymus is critical for the establishment of a functional and self-tolerant adaptive immune system but involutes with age, resulting in reduced naive T cell output. Generation of a functional human thymus from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) is an attractive regenerative strategy. Direct differentiation of thymic epithelial progenitors (TEPs) from hPSCs has been demonstrated in vitro, but functional thymic epithelial cells (TECs) only form months after transplantation of TEPs in vivo. We show the generation of TECs in vitro in isogenic stem cell-derived thymic organoids (sTOs) consisting of TEPs, hematopoietic progenitor cells, and mesenchymal cells, differentiated from the same hPSC line. sTOs support T cell development, express key markers of negative selection, including the autoimmune regulator (AIRE) protein, and facilitate regulatory T cell development. sTOs provide the basis for functional patient-specific thymic organoid models, allowing for the study of human thymus function, T cell development, and transplant immunity.
The in vitro immunotropic actions of a calf thymus extract - thymus factor X (TFX®) preparation were investigated. The preparation did not lower the viability of the A549 epithelial cell line and mouse bone marrow cells in the investigated concentration range. TFX® exhibited a co-stimulatory action of concanavalin A (Con A)-induced mouse thymocyte proliferation and partially restored the mitogen-induced proliferation capability of mouse thymocytes exposed to hydrocortisone (HC). The preparation also inhibited Herpes virus-1 (HSV-1) replication in A549 cells when preincubated with the virus and when added to the infected cells. In addition, it weakly inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced TNF α, IL-1β and IL-6 by the THP-1 monocyte cell line. The determination of mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) expression in Jurkat T cells revealed strong increases in ERK-2 kinase and p38α subunits. In WEHI 231 immature B cells, TFX® elevated p38α, and had a particularly strong elevating effect on p38γ. In HL-60 myeloblastic cells, the expression of p38α, β and γ was not detectable, almost blocked for p38δ and JNK, but accompanied by an increase in ERK-1. In turn, the effects of TFX® in J744E macrophages resulted in a strong increase in p38γ expression, moderate elevations of ERK and a drop in p38δ. Significant increases in MAPK expression were also found in cells from the lymphoid organs. In the bone marrow cell population, p38α, β and γ, in thymocytes p38α, γ and δ, and in splenocytes p38β and γ, subunit expression was elevated. We conclude that the changes in MAPK expression may be attributed to cell maturation and differentiation, and explain the beneficial therapeutic effects of TFX®.
Communication between CD4 T cells and cognate B cells is key for the former to fully mature into germinal center-T follicular helper (GC-TFH) cells and for the latter to mount a CD4 T cell-dependent humoral immune response. Although this interaction occurs in a B:T synapse-dependent manner, how CD4 T cells transcriptionally regulate B:T synapse formation remains largely unknown. Here, we report that Mef2d, an isoform of the myocyte enhancer factor 2 (Mef2) transcription factor family, is a critical regulator of this process. In CD4 T cells, Mef2d negatively regulates expression of Sh2d1a, which encodes SLAM-associated protein (SAP), a critical regulator of B:T synapses. We found that Mef2d regulates Sh2d1a expression via DNA binding-dependent transcriptional repression, inhibiting SAP-dependent B:T synapse formation and preventing antigen-specific CD4 T cells from differentiating into GC-TFH cells. Mef2d also impeded IL-21 production by CD4 T cells, an important B cell help signaling molecule, via direct repression of the Il21 gene. In contrast, CD4 T cell-specific disruption of Mef2d led to a substantial increase in GC-TFH differentiation in response to protein immunization, concurrent with enhanced SAP expression. MEF2D mRNA expression inversely correlates with human systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patient autoimmune parameters, including circulating TFH-like cell frequencies, autoantibodies, and SLEDAI scores. These findings highlight Mef2d as a pivotal rheostat in CD4 T cells for controlling GC formation and antibody production by B cells.
Isoenzyme divergence is a prevalent mechanism governing tissue-specific and developmental stage-specific metabolism in mammals. The lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) isoenzyme spectrum reflects the tissue-specific metabolic status. We found that three tetrameric isoenzymes composed of LDHA and LDHB (LDH-3/4/5) comprise the LDH spectrum in T cells. Genetically deleting LDHA or LDHB altered the isoenzyme spectrum by removing all heterotetramers and leaving T cells with LDH-1 (the homotetramer of LDHB) or LDH-5 (the homotetramer of LDHA), respectively. Accordingly, deleting LDHA suppressed glycolysis, cell proliferation, and differentiation. Unexpectedly, deleting LDHB enhanced glycolysis but suppressed T cell differentiation, indicating that an optimal zone of glycolytic activity is required to maintain cell fitness. Mechanistically, the LDH isoenzyme spectrum imposed by LDHA and LDHB is necessary to optimize glycolysis to maintain a balanced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide/nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen pool. Our results suggest that the LDH isoenzyme spectrum enables "Goldilocks levels" of glycolytic and redox activity to control T cell differentiation.
It is generally accepted that influenza A virus (IAV) infection promotes a Th1-like CD4 T cell response and that this effector program underlies its protective impact. Canonical Th1 polarization requires cytokine-mediated activation of the transcription factors STAT1 and STAT4 that synergize to maximize the induction of the "master regulator" Th1 transcription factor, T-bet. Here, we determine the individual requirements for these transcription factors in directing the Th1 imprint primed by influenza infection in mice by tracking virus-specific wild-type or T-bet-deficient CD4 T cells in which STAT1 or STAT4 is knocked out. We find that STAT1 is required to protect influenza-primed CD4 T cells from NK cell-mediated deletion and for their expression of hallmark Th1 attributes. STAT1 is also required to prevent type I IFN signals from inhibiting the induction of the Th17 master regulator, Rorγt, in Th17-prone T-bet-/- cells responding to IAV. In contrast, STAT4 expression does not appreciably impact the phenotypic or functional attributes of wild-type or T-bet-/- CD4 T cell responses. However, cytokine-mediated STAT4 activation in virus-specific CD4 T cells enhances their Th1 identity in a T-bet-dependent manner, indicating that influenza infection does not promote maximal Th1 induction. Finally, we show that the T-bet-dependent protective capacity of CD4 T cell effectors against IAV is optimized by engaging both STAT1 and STAT4 during Th1 priming, with important implications for vaccine strategies aiming to generate T cell immunity.
INTRODUCTION: Despite accumulated evidence in T-cell exhaustion in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), the immunotherapeutic targeting exhausted T cells such as programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade in AML failed to achieve satisfying efficacy. Characteristics of exhausted T cells in AML remained to be explored.METHODS: Phenotypic analysis of T cells in bone marrow (BM) using flow cytometry combining senescent and exhausted markers was performed in de novo AML patients and healthy donors as well as AML patients with complete remission (CR). Functional analysis of T-cell subsets was also performed in de novo AML patients using flow cytometry.RESULTS: T cells experienced a phenotypic shift to terminal differentiation characterized by increased loss of CD28 expression and decrease of naïve T cells. Additionally, lack of CD28 expression could help define a severely exhausted subset from generally exhausted T cells (PD-1+TIGIT+). Moreover, CD28- subsets rather than CD28+ subsets predominantly contributed to the significant accumulation of PD-1+TIGIT+ T cells in AML patients. Further comparison of de novo and CR AML patients showed that T-cell exhaustion status was improved after disease remission, especially in CD28+ subsets. Notably, higher frequency of CD28-TIGIT-CD4+ T cells correlated with the presence of minimal residual disease in AML-CR group. However, the correlation between CD28- exhausted T cells and cytogenetic risk or white blood cell count was not observed, except for that CD28- exhausted CD4+ T cells correlated with lymphocyte counts. Intriguingly, larger amount of CD28-TGITI+CD8+ T cells at diagnosis was associated with poor treatment response and shorter leukemia free survival.DISCUSSION: In summary, lack of CD28 expression defined a severely exhausted status from exhausted T cells. Accumulation of CD28- exhausted T cells was linked to occurrence of AML, and correlated to poor clinical outcome. Our data might facilitate the development of combinatory strategies to improve the efficacy of PD-1 blockade in AML.
INTRODUCTION: B cells are acknowledged as crucial players in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). Several disease modifying drugs including cladribine have been shown to exert differential effects on peripheral blood B cell subsets. However, little is known regarding functional changes within the peripheral B cell populations. In this study, we obtained a detailed picture of B cell repertoire changes under cladribine treatment on a combined immunoglobulin (Ig) transcriptome and proteome level.METHODS: We performed next-generation sequencing of Ig heavy chain (IGH) transcripts and Ig mass spectrometry in cladribine-treated patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (n = 8) at baseline and after 6 and 12 months of treatment in order to generate Ig transcriptome and Ig peptide libraries. Ig peptides were overlapped with the corresponding IGH transcriptome in order to analyze B cell clones on a combined transcriptome and proteome level.RESULTS: The analysis of peripheral blood B cell percentages pointed towards a significant decrease of memory B cells and an increase of naive B cells following cladribine therapy. While basic IGH repertoire parameters (e.g. variable heavy chain family usage and Ig subclasses) were only slightly affected by cladribine treatment, a significantly decreased number of clones and significantly lower diversity in the memory subset was noticeable at 6 months following treatment which was sustained at 12 months. When looking at B-cell clones comprising sequences from the different time-points, clones spanning between all three time-points were significantly more frequent than clones including sequences from two time-points. Furthermore, Ig proteome analyses showed that Ig transcriptome specific peptides could mostly be equally aligned to all three time-points pointing towards a proportion of B-cell clones that are maintained during treatment.DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest that peripheral B cell related treatment effects of cladribine tablets might be exerted through a reduction of possibly disease relevant clones in the memory B cell subset without disrupting the overall clonal composition of B cells. Our results -at least partially- might explain the relatively mild side effects regarding infections and the sustained immune response after vaccinations during treatment. However, exact disease driving B cell subsets and their effects remain unknown and should be addressed in future studies.
Thymocytes bearing autoreactive T cell receptors (TCRs) are agonist-signaled by TCR/co-stimulatory molecules to either undergo clonal deletion or to differentiate into specialized regulatory T (Treg) or effector T (Teff) CD4+ cells. How these different fates are achieved during development remains poorly understood. We now document that deletion and differentiation are agonist-signaled at different times during thymic selection and that Treg and Teff cells both arise after clonal deletion as alternative lineage fates of agonist-signaled CD4+CD25+ precursors. Disruption of agonist signaling induces CD4+CD25+ precursors to initiate Foxp3 expression and become Treg cells, whereas persistent agonist signaling induces CD4+CD25+ precursors to become IL-2+ Teff cells. Notably, we discovered that transforming growth factor-β induces Foxp3 expression and promotes Treg cell development by disrupting weaker agonist signals and that Foxp3 expression is not induced by IL-2 except under non-physiological in vivo conditions. Thus, TCR signaling disruption versus persistence is a general mechanism of lineage fate determination in the thymus that directs development of agonist-signaled autoreactive thymocytes.
Seasonal influenza vaccination elicits hemagglutinin (HA)-specific memory B (Bmem) cells, and although multiple Bmem cell populations have been characterized, considerable heterogeneity exists. We found that HA-specific human Bmem cells differed in the expression of surface marker FcRL5 and transcriptional factor T-bet. FcRL5+T-bet+ Bmem cells were transcriptionally similar to effector-like memory cells, while T-betnegFcRL5neg Bmem cells exhibited stem-like central memory properties. FcRL5+ Bmem cells did not express plasma-cell-commitment factors but did express transcriptional, epigenetic, metabolic, and functional programs that poised these cells for antibody production. Accordingly, HA+ T-bet+ Bmem cells at day 7 post-vaccination expressed intracellular immunoglobulin, and tonsil-derived FcRL5+ Bmem cells differentiated more rapidly into antibody-secreting cells (ASCs) in vitro. The T-bet+ Bmem cell response positively correlated with long-lived humoral immunity, and clonotypes from T-bet+ Bmem cells were represented in the secondary ASC response to repeat vaccination, suggesting that this effector-like population predicts influenza vaccine durability and recall potential.
INTRODUCTION: The neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) may predict stroke-associated pneumonia, which is generally defined as pneumonia occurring in the first week after stroke. However, little is known whether the initial NLR is associated with pneumonia risk during the long-term follow-up in stroke survivors. We aimed to determine the relationship between admission NLR and the risk of post-stroke pneumonia within 1 year after discharge from acute stroke care.METHODS: Hospital databases were searched to identify adult patients hospitalized for acute stroke. Admission NLR was extracted using differential leukocyte counts. The outcome of interest was hospitalized pneumonia occurring within 1 year after discharge from hospitalization for stroke. Multivariable Cox proportional-hazards models were used to determine the independent effects of the NLR on the risk of pneumonia.RESULTS: In this study, 5,741 patients with acute stroke (mean age, 68 years; men, 62.1%) were analyzed. The median NLR was 2.72 (interquartile range, 1.78-4.49). Of the patients, 342 (6.0%) developed pneumonia within 1 year after discharge. In the multivariable models, the NLR was a significant predictor of pneumonia after discharge whether it was analyzed as a continuous or dichotomized variable. The corresponding adjusted hazard ratios were 1.037 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.013-1.061) and 1.361 (95% CI, 1.087-1.704), respectively.CONCLUSION: The NLR could predict the risk of post-stroke pneumonia up to 1 year after discharge from acute stroke care. It may help identify high-risk stroke survivors, for whom appropriate interventions can be targeted.
Preoperative prediction of complicated appendicitis is challenging, and many clinical tools are developed to predict complicated appendicitis. This study evaluated whether a supervised learning method can recognize complicated appendicitis in emergency department (ED). Consecutive patients with acute appendicitis presenting to the ED were enrolled and included into training and testing datasets at a ratio of 70:30. The multilayer perceptron artificial neural network (ANN) models were trained to perform binary outcome classification between uncomplicated and complicated acute appendicitis. Measures of sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative likelihood ratio (LR + and LR-), and a c statistic of a receiver of operating characteristic curve were used to evaluate an ANN model. The simplest ANN model by Bröker et al. including the C-reactive protein (CRP) and symptom duration as variables achieved a c statistic value of 0.894. The ANN models developed by Avanesov et al. including symptom duration, appendiceal diameter, periappendiceal fluid, extraluminal air, and abscess as variables attained a high diagnostic performance (a c statistic value of 0.949) and good efficiency (sensitivity of 78.6%, specificity of 94.5%, LR + of 14.29, LR- of 0.23 in the testing dataset); and our own model by H.A. Lin et al. including the CRP level, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, fat-stranding sign, appendicolith, and ascites exhibited high accuracy (c statistic of 0.950) and outstanding efficiency (sensitivity of 85.7%, specificity of 91.7%, LR + of 10.36, LR- of 0.16 in the testing dataset). The ANN models developed by Avanesov et al. and H.A. Lin et al. developed model exhibited a high diagnostic performance.
The E3 ubiquitin ligase cullin 3 (Cul3) is critical for invariant NKT (iNKT) cell development, as iNKT cells lacking Cul3 accumulate in the immature developmental stages. However, the mechanisms by which Cul3 mediates iNKT cell development remain unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of Cul3 in both immature and mature thymic iNKT cells using a mouse model with a T cell-specific deletion of Cul3. We found that mature iNKT cells lacking Cul3 proliferated and died more than wild-type cells did. These cells also displayed increased glucose metabolism and autophagy. Interestingly, we found that tight regulation of iron homeostasis is critical for iNKT cell development. Without Cul3, mature iNKT cells harbored higher levels of cytosolic iron, a phenotype associated with increased cell death. Taken together, our data suggest that Cul3 promotes iNKT cell development partially through intracellular iron homeostasis.
Although immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer management, most patients do not derive benefits from it. Aiming to explore an appropriate strategy for immunotherapy efficacy prediction, we collected 6251 patients' transcriptome data from multicohort population and analyzed the data using a machine learning algorithm. In this study, we found that patients from three immune gene clusters had different overall survival when treated with immunotherapy (P < 0.001), and that these clusters had differential states of hypoxia scores and metabolism functions. The immune gene score showed good immunotherapy efficacy prediction (AUC was 0.737 at 20 months), which was well validated. The immune gene score, tumor mutation burden, and long non-coding RNA score were further combined to build a tumor immune microenvironment signature, which correlated more strongly with overall survival (AUC, 0.814 at 20 months) than when using a single variable. Thus, we recommend using the characterization of the tumor immune microenvironment associated with immunotherapy efficacy via a multi-omics analysis of cancer.
Immune cells have been implicated in interstitial lung diseases (ILDs), although their phenotypes and effector mechanisms remain poorly understood. To better understand these cells, we conducted an exploratory mass cytometry analysis of immune cell subsets in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), connective-tissue disease (CTD)-related ILD, and sarcoidosis, using two panels including 64 markers. Among myeloid cells, we observed the expansion of CD14+ CD36hi CD84hiCCR2- monocyte populations in IPF. These CD14+ CD36hi CD84hi CCR2- subsets were also increased in ILDs with a progressive phenotype, particularly in a case of acute exacerbation (AEx) of IPF. Analysis of B cells revealed the presence of cells at various stages of differentiation in BALF, with a higher percentage of IgG memory B cells in CTD-ILDs and a trend toward more FCRL5+ B cells. These FCRL5+ B cells were also present in the patient with AEx-IPF and sarcoidosis with advanced lung lesions. Among T cells, we found increased levels of IL-2R+ TIGIT+ LAG3+ CD4+ T cells in IPF, increased levels of CXCR3+ CD226+ CD4+ T cells in sarcoidosis, and increased levels of PD1+ TIGIT+ CD57+ CD8+ T cells in CTD-ILDs. Together, these findings underscore the diverse immunopathogenesis of ILDs.
INTRODUCTION: Data on immune response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in patients living with HIV (PLWH) over a period longer than 3 months are currently limited. We measured the immune response after BNT162b2 vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 in this population.METHODS: We prospectively enrolled PLWH on successful antiretroviral therapy, initiating vaccination with two doses of the BNT162b2 SARS-CoV-2 vaccine administered at six-week interval. SARS-CoV-2 humoral and cellular responses and lymphocyte cell subsets were recorded at inclusion and 6 weeks (W6), 3 months (M3) and 6 months (M6) later. Humoral, humoral strong and cellular responders were defined by IgG titers >10, ≥264BAU/mL and IFN-γ T cell release, respectively.RESULTS: Nineteen subjects without SARS-CoV-2 infection were included (74% men, mean age 51 years, CD4 nadir 399/mm3). All subjects were humoral responders, their antibody titer peak reached at M3. Strong responders' rates were 63% and 21% at M3 and M6, respectively. CD19+CD10+ B cells had increased significantly at W6 then decreased at M3, while CD19+CD27+ B cells remained unchanged. Rates of patients with a cellular response increased from 39% at W6 to 69% at M6. Cellular responders had significantly higher CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ Effector Memory cells at inclusion (p=0.048, p=0.024, p=0.012, respectively) and CD4+ Terminally Differentiated Effector Memory cells at M3 (p=0.044).DISCUSSION: PLWH have a robust immune response after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, but a rapid decline in humoral response from 3 months onwards, due to a blunted memory B cell response. Analysis of lymphocyte subsets may help identify optimal times for vaccine boosters.
BACKGROUND Spinal gout is not so uncommon. The numbers of case reports are low because of underdiagnosis. Nevertheless, the presentation of spinal gout in a patient who was never diagnosed with gout or hyperuricemia is rare. In addition, the probability of occurrence of spinal gout at the thoracic spine is low, making this case unique. Late or missed diagnosis causes treatment delays with grave outcomes. CASE REPORT A 65-year-old man with a past medical history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia presented with rapid and progressive weakness of the lower extremities that led to complete paraplegia over 2 weeks. Magnetic resonance imaging showed severe central canal stenosis with disc protrusion and a T4-5 ventral mass with abnormal marrow signaling. The margins at the erosion were sclerotic, and malignancy was top on the differential diagnosis. Open minimally invasive laminectomy with discectomy at T4-5 was done. Sections on the biopsy specimen demonstrated fragments of benign cartilage and bone and multiple granulomas palisading around areas of crystalline material, consistent with tophaceous gout. He was started on a urate-lowering treatment per the American College of Rheumatology guideline. Unfortunately, due to the late patient presentation, neurologic recovery was not possible. CONCLUSIONS This case report illustrates an unusual presentation of gout with a catastrophic complication that could have been prevented with early diagnosis and treatment. Some reports have described patients with tophaceous deposits in the absence of gout flare among patients with urate overproduction due to myeloproliferative disorders. Further studies are needed to explore such relationships.
BACKGROUND: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) with signet ring cell components is extremely rare. Here, we present a case of DLBCL with signet ring cell components involving the breast, which can be easily confused with invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast or metastatic signet ring cell carcinoma of gastrointestinal origin.CASE PRESENTATION: A 66-year-old woman presented with a painless mass in her left breast. Enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the breast revealed a 42 × 29 × 28 mm mass in the left breast. Histological examination revealed a diffuse or scattered arrangement of round cells mixed with signet ring-like cells. Immunohistochemically, the neoplastic cells were positive for PAX-5, CD79a, CD20, Bcl-6, and MUM-1 but and negative for cytokeratin, ER, PR, E-cadherin, and P120. The Ki-67 proliferation index was approximately 70%. Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) demonstrated non-rearrangement of Bcl-2, Bcl-6, and c-MYC genes. Immunohistochemistry and FISH examination confirmed the diagnosis of DLBCL. Subsequently, immunofluorescence showed both IgM and IgG deposits in the signet ring-like lymphocytes. After confirming the diagnosis, the patient received four courses of CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone) chemotherapy in a specialist hospital and achieved partial remission; however, she unfortunately died of secondary pneumocystis pneumonia infection 3 months later.CONCLUSION: Malignant lymphoma with signet ring cell morphology is quite uncommon, and this variant can be a diagnostic pitfall. We emphasise that pathologists should consider lymphoma in the differential diagnosis of malignant breast tumours.
The recent revolution in tissue-resident macrophage biology has resulted largely from murine studies performed in C57BL/6 mice. Here, using both C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice, we analyze immune cells in the pleural cavity. Unlike C57BL/6 mice, naive tissue-resident large-cavity macrophages (LCMs) of BALB/c mice failed to fully implement the tissue-residency program. Following infection with a pleural-dwelling nematode, these pre-existing differences were accentuated with LCM expansion occurring in C57BL/6, but not in BALB/c mice. While infection drove monocyte recruitment in both strains, only in C57BL/6 mice were monocytes able to efficiently integrate into the resident pool. Monocyte-to-macrophage conversion required both T cells and interleukin-4 receptor alpha (IL-4Rα) signaling. The transition to tissue residency altered macrophage function, and GATA6+ tissue-resident macrophages were required for host resistance to nematode infection. Therefore, during tissue nematode infection, T helper 2 (Th2) cells control the differentiation pathway of resident macrophages, which determines infection outcome.
The widespread adoption of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapy has been hindered by its complex and costly manufacturing process. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have shown promise as a cellular immunotherapy alternative, due to their unlimited self-renewal potential in culture and capacity to differentiate into functional immune cell types. However, it is imperative to carefully select the original cell for iPSC seed preparation, as iPSCs have been found to retain the epigenetic imprint of the original somatic cells. Additionally, the efficiency of reprogramming terminal differentiated cells for immunotherapy must be addressed. Our research highlights the superiority of lymphocyte-origin cells over embryonic stem cells in functional immune cell differentiation. Furthermore, blocking Fas-FasL induced apoptosis in T cells significantly improves iPSC generation. Interestingly, transient Fas suppression in T cells does not alter the expression of Fas in the resulting iPSCs or affect their differentiation potential. This finding brings up new avenues in the field of cellular immunotherapy and provides a solution for creating high-quality and suitable iPSCs for lymphocyte differentiation for immunotherapy purposes.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells are critical for tolerance to self-antigens and for preventing autoimmunity. Foxp3 has been identified as a Treg cell lineage-defining transcription factor controlling Treg cell differentiation and function. In this article, we review the current mechanistic and systemic understanding of Foxp3 function enabled by experimental and computational advances in high-throughput genomics.
Exhaustion is a state of CD8 T cell differentiation that occurs in settings of chronic Ag such as tumors, chronic viral infection, and autoimmunity. Cellular differentiation is driven by a series of environmental signals that promote epigenetic landscapes that set transcriptomes needed for function. For CD8 T cells, the epigenome that underlies exhaustion is distinct from effector and memory cell differentiation, suggesting that signals early on set in motion a process where the epigenome is modified to promote a trajectory toward a dysfunctional state. Although we know many signals that promote exhaustion, putting this in the context of the epigenetic changes that occur during differentiation has been less clear. In this review, we aim to summarize the epigenetic changes associated with exhaustion in the context of signals that promote it, highlighting immunotherapeutic studies that support these observations or areas for future therapeutic opportunities.
The thymus is an intricate organ consisting of a diverse population of thymic epithelial cells (TECs). Cortical and medullary TECs and their subpopulations have distinct roles in coordinating the development and selection of functionally competent and self-tolerant T cells. Recent advances made in technologies such as single-cell RNA sequencing have made it possible to investigate and resolve the heterogeneity in TECs. These findings have provided further understanding of the molecular mechanisms regulating TEC function and expression of tissue-restricted Ags. In this brief review, we focus on the newly characterized subsets of TECs and their diversity in relation to their functions in supporting T cell development. We also discuss recent discoveries in expression of self-antigens in the context of TEC development as well as the cellular and molecular changes occurring during embryonic development to thymic involution.
Annual fishes of the genus Nothobranchius have been widely used in cognitive, behavioral and genetic studies, and have become an excellent animal model for studying aging. However, the development and degeneration of immune organs in annual fishes and the antagonistic effects of resveratrol remain unclear. In the present study, the development of thymus and kidney was investigated systematically using N. guentheri from larvae, juveniles, young and old fish with H&E staining. We found that thymus primordium was observed first in the larvae at 2 days after hatching (dah). After the lymphoid cells became evident at 5 dah, the thymus acquired an irregular shape at 7 dah. Then it formed a wedge-shape at 15 dah. Thymus looked as homogeneous distribution of lymphocytes at 1-month-old, and it differentiated into cortex and medulla approximately 2-month-old fish. Combined with TUNEL and SA-β-gal staining, it showed the degeneration of thymus appeared from 4-month-old fish. Kidney primordium appeared on 1 dah, and the glomerulus was visible at 7 dah. The nephrogenic activity was most apparent in 1-month-old fish. A large hematopoietic tissue was arranged in the renal interstitium in 2- and 3-month-old fish. In 6-month-old fish, the kidney structure became less dense. By 12 months, kidney exhibited the most pronounced histological characteristics of aging. Feeding resveratrol ameliorated renal fibrosis and SA-β-gal staining with age, increased SIRT1 and SIRT3 expression, and decreased the levels of NF-κB and inflammatory factors in thymus and kidney of the fish. We provided basic data for development and degeneration of immune organs and resveratrol's anti-aging effects in a short-lived fish.
Author information:(1)Yan'an Key Laboratory of Microbial Drug Innovation, Medical School of Yan'an University, Yan'an 716000; Department of Immunology of the Air Force Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.(2)Department of Immunology of the Air Force Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.(3)Yan'an Key Laboratory of Microbial Drug Innovation, Medical School of Yan'an University, Yan'an 716000, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: yuhonglyu@126.com.
Abnormal DNA methylation is a fundamental characterization of epigenetics in cancer. Here we demonstrate that aberrant DNA methylating can modulate the tumour immune microenvironment in 16 cancer types. Differential DNA methylation in promoter region can regulate the transcriptomic pattern of immune-related genes and DNA hypomethylation mainly participated in the processes of immunity, carcinogenesis and immune infiltration. Moreover, many cancer types shared immune-related functions, like activation of innate immune response, interferon gamma response and NOD-like receptor signalling pathway. DNA methylation can further help identify molecular subtypes of kidney renal clear cell carcinoma. These subtypes are characterized by DNA methylation pattern, major histocompatibility complex, cytolytic activity and cytotoxic t lymphocyte and tumour mutation burden, and subtype with hypomethylation pattern shows unstable immune status. Then, we investigate the DNA methylation pattern of exhaustion-related marker genes and further demonstrate the role of hypomethylation in tumour immune microenvironment. In summary, our findings support the use of hypomethylation as a biomarker to understand the mechanism of tumour immune environment.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a crucial role in regulating gene expression. MicroRNA expression levels fluctuate, and point mutations and methylation occur in cancer cells; however, to date, there have been no reports of carcinogenic point mutations in miRNAs. MicroRNA 142 (miR-142) is frequently mutated in patients with follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and acute myeloid leukemia/myelodysplastic syndrome (AML/MDS). To understand the role of miR-142 mutation in blood cancers, the CRISPR-Cas9 system was utilized to successfully generate miR-142-55A>G mutant knock-in (Ki) mice, simulating the most frequent mutation in patients with miR-142 mutated AML/MDS. Bone marrow cells from miR-142 mutant heterozygous Ki mice were transplanted, and we found that the miR-142 mutant/wild-type cells were sufficient for the development of CD8+ T-cell leukemia in mice post-transplantation. RNA-sequencing analysis in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells and CD8+ T-cells revealed that miR-142-Ki/+ cells had increased expression of the mTORC1 activator, a potential target of wild-type miR-142-3p. Notably, the expression of genes involved in apoptosis, differentiation, and the inhibition of the Akt-mTOR pathway was suppressed in miR-142-55A>G heterozygous cells, indicating that these genes are repressed by the mutant miR-142-3p. Thus, in addition to the loss of function due to the halving of wild-type miR-142-3p alleles, mutated miR-142-3p gained the function to suppress the expression of distinct target genes, sufficient to cause leukemogenesis in mice.
This study evaluates the functional capacity of CD4+ and CD8+ terminally-differentiated effector (TEMRA), central memory (TCM), and effector memory (TEM) cells obtained from the volunteers vaccinated with an aluminum-adjuvanted inactivated whole-virion SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (CoronaVac). The volunteers were followed for T cell immune responses following the termination of a randomized phase III clinical trial. Seven days and four months after the second dose of the vaccine, the memory T cell subsets were collected and stimulated by autologous monocyte-derived dendritic cells (mDCs) loaded with SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein S1. Compared to the placebo group, memory T cells from the vaccinated individuals significantly proliferated in response to S1-loaded mDCs. CD4+ and CD8+ memory T cell proliferation was detected in 86% and 78% of the vaccinated individuals, respectively. More than 73% (after a short-term) and 62% (after an intermediate-term) of the vaccinated individuals harbored TCM and/or TEM cells that responded to S1-loaded mDCs by secreting IFN-γ. The expression of CD25, CD38, 4-1BB, PD-1, and CD107a indicated a modulation in the memory T cell subsets. Especially on day 120, PD-1 was upregulated on CD4+ TEMRA and TCM, and on CD8+ TEM and TCM cells; accordingly, proliferation and IFN-γ secretion capacities tended to decline after 4 months. In conclusion, the combination of inactivated whole-virion particles with aluminum adjuvants possesses capacities to induce functional T cell responses.
Comment in    Cell. 2023 Mar 30;186(7):1302-1304.
Heterozygous loss-of-function (LOF) mutations in PIK3R1 (encoding phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase [PI3K] regulatory subunits) cause activated PI3Kδ syndrome 2 (APDS2), which has a similar clinical profile to APDS1, caused by heterozygous gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in PIK3CD (encoding the PI3K p110δ catalytic subunit). While several studies have established how PIK3CD GOF leads to immune dysregulation, less is known about how PIK3R1 LOF mutations alter cellular function. By studying a novel CRISPR/Cas9 mouse model and patients' immune cells, we determined how PIK3R1 LOF alters cellular function. We observed some overlap in cellular defects in APDS1 and APDS2, including decreased intrinsic B cell class switching and defective Tfh cell function. However, we also identified unique APDS2 phenotypes including defective expansion and affinity maturation of Pik3r1 LOF B cells following immunization, and decreased survival of Pik3r1 LOF pups. Further, we observed clear differences in the way Pik3r1 LOF and Pik3cd GOF altered signaling. Together these results demonstrate crucial differences between these two genetic etiologies.
Epithelium-derived antimicrobial peptides represent an evolutionarily ancient defense mechanism against pathogens. Regenerating islet-derived protein 3 γ (Reg3γ), the archetypal intestinal antimicrobial peptide, is critical for maintaining host-microbe interactions. Expression of Reg3γ is known to be regulated by the microbiota through two different pathways, although it remains unknown whether specific Reg3γ-inducing bacteria act via one or both of these pathways. In recent work, we identified Ruminococcus gnavus and Limosilactobacillus reuteri as commensal bacteria able to induce Reg3g expression. In this study, we show these bacteria require myeloid differentiation primary response protein 88 and group 3 innate lymphoid cells for induction of Reg3γ in mice. Interestingly, we find that R. gnavus and L. reuteri suppress Reg3γ in the absence of either myeloid differentiation primary response protein 88 or group 3 innate lymphoid cells. In addition, we demonstrate that colonization by these bacteria is not required for induction of Reg3γ, which occurs several days after transient exposure to the organisms. Taken together, our findings highlight the complex mechanisms underlying microbial regulation of Reg3γ.
T cells, which are derived from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), are the most important components of adaptive immune system. Based on the expression of αβ and γδ receptors, T cells are mainly divided into αβ and γδ T cells. In the thymus, they share common progenitor cells, while undergoing a series of well-characterized and different developmental processes. N6 -Methyladenosine (m6 A), one of the most abundant modifications in mRNAs, plays critical roles in cell development and maintenance of function. Recently, we have demonstrated that the depletion of m6 A demethylase ALKBH5 in lymphocytes specifically induces an expansion of γδ T cells through the regulation of Jag1/Notch2 signaling, but not αβ T cells, indicating a checkpoint role of ALKBH5 and m6 A modification in the early development of γδ T cells. Based on previous studies, many key pathway molecules, which exert dominant roles in γδ T cell fate determination, have been identified as the targets regulated by m6 A modification. In this review, we mainly summarize the potential regulation between m6 A modification and these key signaling molecules in the γδ T cell lineage commitment, to provide new perspectives in the checkpoint of γδ T cell development.
The factors regulating the heterogeneity of interleukin-17A (IL-17A)-expressing CD4+ T cells in inflammatory bowel diseases remain unclear. In the current study, we characterised the expression and function of zinc finger protein 189 (ZFP189) in a murine colitis model. Mice were given dextran sulphate sodium to induce acute colitis. Flow cytometry was applied to recognise and enrich Th17 and Th17.1 cells based on the expression of IL-17A, interferon-γ (IFN-γ), C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3), and C-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CCR4). The expression of ZFP189 in Th17 and Th17.1 cells was determined by Immunoblotting. Lentivirus-mediated ZFP189 knockdown was conducted to evaluate the effect of ZFP189 on the differentiation of Th17 and Th17.1 cells. The adoptive transfer was performed to analyse the pathogenicity of Th17.1 cells in vivo. We found that ZFP189 was mildly up-regulated in IL-17A-expressing CD4+ T cells in colonic lamina propria. Lamina propria Th17.1 cells expressed higher ZFP189 than Th17 cells. In vitro ZFP189 knockdown in CD4+ T cells did not impact Th17 cell differentiation but suppressed Th17.1 cell differentiation, as evidenced by lower T-box expressed in T cells (T-bet) and IFN-γ. When adoptively transferred into mice, ZFP189-deficient Th17.1 cells produced fewer IFN-γ, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) than ZFP189-expressing Th17.1 cells. Moreover, ZFP189-deficient Th17.1 cells induced less severe colitis than ZFP189-expressing Th17.1 cells, as evidenced by less body weight loss, a lower disease activity index, and a lower colon histological score. In summary, ZFP189 acts as a positive regulator of the differentiation and pathogenicity of lamina propria Th17.1 cells in colitis.
BACKGROUND: The capacity of self-renewal and multipotent differentiation makes mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) one of the most widely investigated cell lines in preclinical studies as cell-based therapies. However, the low survival rate and poor homing efficiency of MSCs after transplantation hinder the therapeutic application. Exosomes derived from MSCs have shown promising therapeutic potential in many diseases. However, the heterogeneity of MSCs may lead to differences in the function of secreting exosomes. In this study, the therapeutic effects of hUC-Exos and hFP-Exos on the DSS-induced colitis mouse model were investigated.METHODS: The colitis mouse models were randomly divided into four groups: (1) DSS administered for 7 days and euthanasia (DSS7D), (2) DSS administered for 7 days and kept for another 7 days without any treatment (DSS14D), (3) DSS administered for 7 days and followed with hUC-EVs infusion for 7 days (hUC-EVs) and (4) DSS administered for 7 days and followed with hFP-EVs infusion for 7 days (hFP-EVs). We analyzed colon length, histopathology, Treg cells, cytokines and gut microbiota composition in each group.RESULTS: A large amount of IL-6, IL-17 and IFN-γ were produced along with the decrease in the number of CD4 + Foxp3 + and CD8 + Foxp3 + cells in DSS7D group, which indicated that Th17 cells were activated and Treg cells were suppressed. We found that the number of CD4 + Foxp3 + and CD8 + Foxp3 + cells increased in order to suppress inflammation, but the length of colon did not recover and the symotoms were worsened of the colonic tissue in DSS14D group. The subsequent infusion of either hUC-Exos or hFP-Exos mediated the transformation of Treg and Th17 cells in colitis mice to maintain immune balance. The infusion of hUC-Exos and hFP-Exos also both reduced the abundance of pro-inflammatory intestinal bacterial such as Verrucomicrobia and Akkermansia muciniphila to improve colitis.CONCLUSIONS: We found that Foxp3 + Treg cells can inhibit the inflammatory response, and the over-activated Treg cells can still further damage the intestinal mucosa. hUC-Exos and hFP-Exos can control inflammation by regulating the balance between Th17 cells and Treg cells. Decreased inflammatory response improved the structure of colon wall in mice and reduced the abundance of pro-inflammatory bacteria in the intestine. The improvement of intestinal wall structure provides conditions for the reproduction of beneficial bacteria, which further contributes to the reduction of colitis.
BACKGROUND: Selective IgA deficiency (SIgAD) is the most prevalent inborn errors of immunity with almost unknown etiology. This study aimed to investigate the clinical diagnostic and prognostic values of lymphocyte subsets and function in symptomatic SIgAD patients.METHODS: A total of 30 available SIgAD patients from the Iranian registry and 30 age-sex-matched healthy controls were included in the present study. We analyzed B and T cell peripheral subsets and T cell proliferation assay by flow cytometry in SIgAD patients with mild and severe clinical phenotypes.RESULTS: Our results indicated a significant increase in naïve and transitional B cells and a strong decrease in marginal zone-like and switched memory B-cells in SIgAD patients. We found that naïve and central memory CD4+ T cell subsets, as well as Th1, Th2 and regulatory T cells, have significantly decreased. On the other hand, there was a significant reduction in central and effector memory CD8+ T cell subsets, whereas proportions of both (CD4+ and CD8+) terminally differentiated effector memory T cells (TEMRA) were significantly elevated in our patients. Although some T cell subsets in severe SIgAD were similar, a decrease in marginal-zone and switched memory B cells and an increase in CD21low B cell of severe SIgAD patients were slightly prominent. Moreover, the proliferation activity of CD4+ T cells was strongly impaired in SIgAD patients with a severe phenotype.CONCLUSION: SIgAD patients have varied cellular and humoral deficiencies. Therefore, T cell and B cell assessment might help in better understanding the heterogeneous pathogenesis and prognosis estimation of the disease.
The "biological identity" of nanoparticles (NPs) is governed by a shell consisting of various biomolecules that is formed upon exposure to biological media, the so-called biomolecule corona. Consequently, supplementation of cell culture media with e.g. different sera is likely to affect interactions between cells and NPs ex-vivo, especially endocytosis. We aimed to investigate the differential impact of human and fetal-bovine serum on the endocytosis of poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) NPs by human peripheral blood mononuclear cells via flow cytometry. Furthermore, we employed different methods to inhibit endocytosis, providing mechanistic insights. The resulting biomolecule corona was characterized via denaturing gel electrophoresis. We found profound differences between human and fetal bovine serum regarding the endocytosis of fluorescently labeled PLGA nanoparticles by different classes of human leukocytes. Uptake by B-lymphocytes was particularly sensitive. We further present evidence, that these effects are mediated by a biomolecule corona. We demonstrate to our knowledge for the first time that the complement is an important contributor to the endocytosis of non-surface-engineered PLGA-nanoparticles prepared via emulsion solvent evaporation by human immune cells. Our data demonstrates that results obtained with xenogeneic culture supplements such as fetal bovine serum may have to be interpreted with caution.
In the human thymus, a CD10+ PD-1+ TCRαβ+ differentiation pathway diverges from the conventional single positive T cell lineages at the early double-positive stage. Here, we identify the progeny of this unconventional lineage in antigen-inexperienced blood. These unconventional T cells (UTCs) in thymus and blood share a transcriptomic profile, characterized by hallmark transcription factors (i.e., ZNF683 and IKZF2), and a polyclonal TCR repertoire with autoreactive features, exhibiting a bias toward early TCRα chain rearrangements. Single-cell RNA sequencing confirms a common developmental trajectory between the thymic and blood UTCs and clearly delineates this unconventional lineage in blood. Besides MME+ recent thymic emigrants, effector-like clusters are identified in this heterogeneous lineage. Expression of Helios and KIR and a decreased CD8β expression are characteristics of this lineage. This UTC lineage could be identified in adult blood and intestinal tissues. In summary, our data provide a comprehensive characterization of the polyclonal unconventional lineage in antigen-inexperienced blood and identify the adult progeny.
Intestinal mucosal immunity plays a pivotal role in host defence. In this study, we found that cluster of differentiation 226 (CD226) gene knockout (KO) led to more severe atopic dermatitis (AD)-related skin pathologies and bowel abnormalities in a 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD-like mouse model. Following DNCB administration, the expression of CD226 was elevated in intestinal mucosal tissues, including group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s) and CD4+ T cells of Peyer's patches (PPs). CD226 deficiency led to an overactive intestinal immune response in the AD-like mice, as evidenced by increased inflammation and Th1/Th2-related cytokine levels as well as increased Paneth cell numbers and antimicrobial peptide (AMP) expression, which was likely due to the higher interleukin (IL)-22 production in the lamina propria. Additionally, CD226 deficiency increased the production of IL-4 and IL-17 in mesenteric lymph nodes as well as the number of PPs and expression of immunoglobulin (Ig) A in B cells. Moreover, insufficient expression of CD226 affected the characterization of intraepithelial and lamina propria lymphocytes in the intestinal mucosa. Finally, the number of PPs was increased in CD4+ T cell-specific CD226 KO and regulatory T (Treg) cell-specific CD226 KO mice; thus, loss of CD226 in Treg cells resulted in impaired Treg cell-suppressive function. Therefore, our findings indicate that CD226 deficiency alters intestinal immune functionality in inflammatory diseases.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a common inflammation that affects many people globally. Quercetin has anti-allergic biological activity in AR. Here, we aimed to explore the effects of quercetin on type 1 helper T (Th1)/Th2 and regulatory T cells (Treg)/Th17 balance. We established an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced mouse model and orally administered 20, 35, and 50 mg/kg/day quercetin. The nasal symptoms of mice were observed. The immunoglobulin levels, Treg/Th17-related factors, and pro-inflammatory factors were examined by ELISA. The differentiated inflammation cells were visualized using the diff-quick staining assay. The nasal histopathology was evaluated using H&E, periodic acid Schiff (PAS), and Giemsa staining assay. The results showed that quercetin attenuated OVA-induced rubbing and sneezing. Quercetin reduced IgE, IgG1, histamine, and increased IgG2 in serum. The number of differentiated inflammation cells and goblet cells in tissues that elevated by OVA was reduced by quercetin. Moreover, OVA increased the Treg cell percentage, the levels of IL-17, TGF-β, IL-6, TNF-α, and decreased Th17 cell percentage, IL-10 and FOXP3 levels, while quercetin abrogated their levels induced by OVA. Additionally, quercetin inactivated the NF-κB pathway. Taken together, quercetin attenuated AR symptoms by balancing the Th1/Th2, Treg/Th17 ratios, and inactivating the NF-κB pathway. The results suggested that quercetin may use for AR treatment.
A major challenge in developing an effective adoptive cancer immunotherapy is the ex-vivo generation of tumor-reactive cells in sufficient numbers and with enhanced cytotoxic potential. It was recently demonstrated that culturing of activated murine CD8+ T-cells on a "Synthetic Immune Niche" (SIN), consisting of immobilized CCL21 and ICAM-1, enhances T-cell expansion, increases their cytotoxicity against cultured cancer cells and suppresses tumor growth in vivo. In the study reported here, we have tested the effect of the CCL21+ICAM1 SIN, on the expansion and cytotoxic phenotype of Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL) from melanoma patients, following activation with immobilized anti-CD3/CD28 stimulation, or commercial activation beads. The majority of TIL tested, displayed higher expansion when cultured on the coated SIN compared to cells incubated on uncoated substrate and a lower frequency of TIM-3+CD8+ cells after stimulation with anti-CD3/CD28 beads. Comparable enhancement of TIL proliferation was obtained by the CCL21+ICAM1 SIN, in a clinical setting that included a 14-day rapid expansion procedure (REP). Co-incubation of post-REP TIL with matching target cancerous cells demonstrated increased IFNγ secretion beyond baseline in most of the TIL cultures, as well as a significant increase in granzyme B levels following activation on SIN. The SIN did not significantly alter the relative frequency of CD8/CD4 populations, as well as the expression of CD28, CD25, several exhaustion markers and the differentiation status of the expanded cells. These results demonstrate the potential capacity of the CCL21+ICAM1 SIN to reinforce TIL-based immunotherapy for cancer patients.
Nocardia rubra cell wall skeleton (Nr-CWS) has proven to be a successful medicine for therapy of cervical human papillomavirus infection. The mechanism of action of Nr-CWS is unclear but may involve a stimulatory effect on the host immune system. We previously found that CD4+ T cells were increased in cervical tissue after Nr-CWS treatment. Microarray data from these cervical tissues revealed the significant upregulation of formylated peptide receptor 3 (FPR3). This study aimed to explore the role of Nr-CWS in immunomodulatory based on these findings. Examination of CD4+ T cell subsets in cervical tissue from patients who received Nr-CWS revealed substantial increases in Th1 cytokines and transcription factors. The regulatory effects of Nr-CWS on the function and phenotype of dendritic cells (DCs) were assessed in comparison with the traditional DC maturation inducer lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Similar to LPS, Nr-CWS potently induced DC maturation and interleukin-12 (IL-12) secretion. Differentiation of T cells induced by Nr-CWS stimulated DCs was assessed using the mixed lymphocyte reaction assay. Significant differentiation towards Th1 was evident. Finally, FPR3 expression in DCs in response to Nr-CWS and LPS was measured. Nr-CWS potently upregulated FPR3 expression, while the LPS did not. Silencing FPR3 in DCs reduced Nr-CWS-induced IL-12 production and Th1 cell polarization in co-cultured T cells. The collective findings indicate that Nr-CWS may target FPR3 on the surface of DC cells and activate a Th1-type immune response. The findings clarify the basis of the antiviral immune effects of Nr-CWS on human papillomavirus.
The widely used ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 (ChAd) vector and BNT162b2 (BNT) mRNA vaccines have been shown to induce robust immune responses. Recent studies demonstrated that the immune responses of people who received one dose of ChAdOx1 and one dose of BNT were better than those of people who received vaccines with two homologous ChAdOx1 or two BNT doses. However, how heterologous vaccines function has not been extensively investigated. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing data from three classes of samples: volunteers vaccinated with heterologous ChAdOx1-BNT and volunteers vaccinated with homologous ChAd-ChAd and BNT-BNT vaccinations after 7 days were divided into three types of immune cells (3654 B, 8212 CD4+ T, and 5608 CD8+ T cells). To identify differences in gene expression in various cell types induced by vaccines administered through different vaccination strategies, multiple advanced feature selection methods (max-relevance and min-redundancy, Monte Carlo feature selection, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator, light gradient boosting machine, and permutation feature importance) and classification algorithms (decision tree and random forest) were integrated into a computational framework. Feature selection methods were in charge of analyzing the importance of gene features, yielding multiple gene lists. These lists were fed into incremental feature selection, incorporating decision tree and random forest, to extract essential genes, classification rules and build efficient classifiers. Highly ranked genes include PLCG2, whose differential expression is important to the B cell immune pathway and is positively correlated with immune cells, such as CD8+ T cells, and B2M, which is associated with thymic T cell differentiation. This study gave an important contribution to the mechanistic explanation of results showing the stronger immune response of a heterologous ChAdOx1-BNT vaccination schedule than two doses of either BNT or ChAdOx1, offering a theoretical foundation for vaccine modification.
Immunological memory protects our body from re-infection and it is composed of a cellular and a humoral arm. The B-cell branch with its memory B cells (MBCs), plasma cells and antibodies, formed either in a germinal centre (GC) -dependent or -independent manner, ensure that we can rapidly mount a recall immune response. Previous work in immunised wildtype (WT) mice have identified several subsets of MBCs whereas less is known under autoimmune conditions. Here, we have investigated the heterogeneity of the MBC compartment in autoimmune mouse models and examined the clonal relationships between MBC subsets and GC B cells in one of the models. We demonstrate the presence of at least four different MBC subsets based on their differential expression pattern of CD73, CD80 and PD-L2 in surrogate light chain-deficient (SLC-/-), MRL+/+ and MRLlpr/lpr mice, where most of the MBCs express IgM. Likewise, four MBC subsets could be identified in WT immunised mice. In SLC-/- mice, high-throughput sequencing of Ig heavy chains demonstrates that the two CD73-positive subsets are generally more mutated. Lineage tree analyses on expanded clones show overlaps between all MBC subsets and GC B cells primarily in the IgM sequences. Moreover, each of the three IgM MBC subsets could be found both as ancestor and progeny to GC B cells. This was also observed in the IgG sequences except for the CD73-negative subset. Thus, our findings demonstrate that several MBC subsets are present in autoimmune and WT mice. In SLC-/- mice, these MBC subsets are clonally related to each other and to GC B cells. Our results also indicate that different MBC subsets can seed the GC reaction.
Defining the immunological landscape of human tissue is an important area of research, but challenges include the impact of tissue disaggregation on cell phenotypes and the low abundance of immune cells in many tissues. Here, we describe methods to troubleshoot and standardize Cellular Indexing of Transcriptomes and Epitopes by sequencing (CITE-seq) for studies involving enzymatic digestion of human tissue. We tested epitope susceptibility of 92 antibodies commonly used to differentiate immune lineages and cell states on human peripheral blood mononuclear cells following treatment with an enzymatic digestion cocktail used to isolate islets. We observed CD4, CD8a, CD25, CD27, CD120b, CCR4, CCR6, and PD1 display significant sensitivity to enzymatic treatment, effects that often could not be overcome with alternate antibodies. Comparison of flow cytometry-based CITE-seq antibody titrations and sequencing data supports that for the majority of antibodies, flow cytometry accurately predicts optimal antibody concentrations for CITE-seq. Comparison by CITE-seq of immune cells in enzymatically digested islet tissue and donor-matched spleen not treated with enzymes revealed little digestion-induced epitope cleavage, suggesting increased sensitivity of CITE-seq and/or that the islet structure may protect resident immune cells from enzymes. Within islets, CITE-seq identified immune cells difficult to identify by transcriptional signatures alone, such as distinct tissue-resident T cell subsets, mast cells, and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs). Collectively this study identifies strategies for the rational design and testing of CITE-seq antibodies for single-cell studies of immune cells within islets and other tissues.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are crucial for the initiation and regulation of adaptive immune responses. When encountering immune stimulus such as bacterial and viral infection, parasite invasion and dead cell debris, DCs capture antigens, mature, acquire immunostimulatory activity and transmit the immune information to naïve T cells. Then activated cytotoxic CD8+ T cells directly kill the infected cells, while CD4+ T helper cells release cytokines to aid the activity of other immune cells, and help B cells produce antibodies. Thus, detailed insights into the DC maturation process are necessary for us to understand the working principle of immune system, and develop new medical treatments for infection, cancer and autoimmune disease. This review summarizes the DC maturation process, including environment sensing and antigen sampling by resting DCs, antigen processing and presentation on the cell surface, DC migration, DC-T cell interaction and T cell activation. Application of advanced imaging modalities allows visualization of subcellular and molecular processes in a super-high resolution. The spatiotemporal tracking of DCs position and migration reveals dynamics of DC behavior during infection, shedding novel lights on DC biology.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major public health concern. The clearance of HBV may involve cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) activity and T helper type 1 reactions. Exosomes generated from dendritic cells (DCs) can induce immunological responses capable of eradicating viruses. However, exosomes loaded with antigens have not yet demonstrated therapeutic potential in HBV infection. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate the antiviral effects of DC-derived exosomes (Dexs) loaded with ubiquitinated HBV core antigen (Dexs-Ub-HBcAg). Murine bone marrow-derived DCs were loaded with a recombinant lentivector encoding the ubiquitinated form of HBcAg. High-purity Dexs were generated using differential velocity centrifugation. Splenic T-lymphocytes were stimulated with Dexs-Ub-HBcAg and the specific T-cell-mediated immune responses were examined. Cytokine expression was analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. T-lymphocyte proliferation was detected using a Cell Counting Kit-8 assay and HBcAg-specific CTL activity was determined using a lactate dehydrogenase release assay. The results revealed that Dexs-Ub-HBcAg effectively stimulated T-cell proliferation and induced the activation of antigen-specific CTLs to exhibit HBcAg-specific CTL immune responses in vitro. These results suggest the potential of Dexs-Ub-HBcAg for development as a future therapeutic option for the elimination of HBV.
BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most prevalent gastrointestinal cancers. Evidence for the importance of inflammation and immunology in the development and progression of CRC is growing steadily. The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical importance of Lactic Dehydrogenase (LDH) to Albumin (ALB) Ratio (LAR) and immune-inflammation biomarkers (IIBs) in patients with CRC.METHODS: This study enrolled 382 CRC patients. The LAR was determined as the serum LDH(U/l) to ALB(g/l) ratio. We compared the levels of LAR and IIBs in different TNM stages and tumor differentiation. The relationship between LAR and IIBs and overall survival (OS) of CRC was determined by Cox regression models. A prognostic nomogram was created using the results of the multivariate analysis and the effectiveness of the nomogram was assessed using the ROC, calibration, and decision curves. We evaluated the relationship between LAR and IIBs and clinical features of CRC.RESULTS: The levels of LAR, SII, NLR and PLR in TNM IV stage group (LAR:5.92 (5.23-8.24); SII: 1040.02 (499.51-1683.54); NLR: 2.87 (2.07-5.3); PLR:187.08 (125.31-276.63)) were significantly higher than those in other groups. LAR and NLR showed no significant difference in different tumor differentiation groups, while SII and PLR in undifferentiated groups (SII:543.72 (372.63-1110.20); PLR: 147.06 (106.04-203.92)) were significantly higher than those in well and moderate groups (SII: 474.29 (323.75-716.01); PLR: 126.28 (104.31-167.88)). LAR (HR = 1.317, 95% CI = 1.019-1.454), TNM stage (HR = 2.895, 95% CI = 1.838-4.559), age (HR = 1.766, 95% CI = 1.069-2.922) and lymphocytes (HR = 0.663, 95% CI = 0.456-0.963) were predictors of OS. IIBs, including SII, NLR, and PLR are independent of OS. The LAR-based nomogram AUCs of 1-year, 3-year and 5-year survival probabilities in the training cohort were 0.86, 0.72, and 0.71, respectively, and the AUCs of the validation cohort were 0.85, 0.71, and 0.69 respectively. The LAR-based nomogram's ROC curves and calibration curves demonstrated higher OS discriminative performance. The decision curves demonstrated greater net benefit in the survival prediction.CONCLUSION: Preoperative LAR is a potential prognostic marker in CRC patients, while SII, NLR, and PLR are independent of OS. LAR was associated with tumor stage in CRC patients, but not with tumor differentiation.
BACKGROUND: Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a mucocutaneous inflammatory disease affecting 1% general population. Tripartite motif-containing protein 21 (TRIM21) shows a significant role in OLP. This study aimed to explore the function and mechanism of TRIM21 in T cells of OLP.METHODS: Differential gene expression profile in OLP versus healthy controls (HCs) was constructed by RNA sequencing. Protein expression level and infiltration sites of TRIM21 in OLP were detected by immunoblot, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence. Expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines including IL-6, TNF-α, ICAM1, CXCL1, CXCL8, CXCL9, and CXCL11 in CD3+ TRIM21hi T cells were measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. Downstream pathways and substrates of TRIM21 were explored by immunoblot and immunoprecipitation. Whether TRIM21 ubiquitination its substrate and ubiquitination form were tested by ubiquitination assay in vitro.RESULTS: Compared with HCs, TRIM21 exhibited a higher level in OLP, which expressed mainly in CD3+ T lymphocytes in OLP tissues. Overexpressed TRIM21 enhanced the expression of IL-6, TNF-α, CXCL1, CXCL8, CXCL9, and CXCL11 in CD3+ T cell line through ubiquitinating nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) via a lysine 63 (K63) linkage, which eventually activating NF-κB signaling pathway.CONCLUSIONS: In OLP, TRIM21 promoted inflammation through ubiquitylating NF-κB and activating NF-κB signaling pathway.
Iron oxide nanoparticles (Fe2O3 NPs), produced in track traffic system and a wide range of industrial production, poses a great threat to human health. However, there is little research about the mechanism of Fe2O3 NPs toxicity on respiratory system. Rag1-/- mice which lack functional T and B cells were intratracheally challenged with Fe2O3 NPs, and interleukin (IL)-33 as an activator of group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) to observe ILC2s changes. The lung inflammatory response to Fe2O3 NPs was alleviated in Rag1-/- mice compared with wild type (WT) mice. Infiltration of inflammatory cells and collagen deposition in tissue, leukocyte numbers (neutrophils, macrophages and lymphocytes), cytokine levels, such as IL-6, IL-13 and thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), and expression of Toll-like receptor (TLR)2, TLR4, and downstream myeloid differentiation factor (MyD)88, nuclear factor (NF)-κB and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α were decreased in lungs. Fe2O3 NPs markedly elevated ILC2s compared with the control, but ILC2s numbers were much lower compared with IL-33 in both WT and Rag1-/- mice. Furthermore, ILC2s amounts were strongly greater in Rag1-/- mice than WT mice. Our results suggested that Fe2O3 NPs induced sub-chronic pulmonary inflammation, which is majorly dependent on T cells and B cells rather than ILC2s.
Hypothyroidism exerts deleterious effects on immunity, but the precise role of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis in immunoregulatory and tolerogenic programs is barely understood. Here, we investigated the mechanisms underlying hypothyroid-related immunosuppression by examining the regulatory role of components of the HPT axis. We first analyzed lymphocyte activity in mice overexpressing the TRH gene (Tg-Trh). T cells from Tg-Trh showed increased proliferation than wild-type (WT) euthyroid mice in response to polyclonal activation. The release of Th1 pro-inflammatory cytokines was also increased in Tg-Trh and TSH levels correlated with T-cell proliferation. To gain further mechanistic insights into hypothyroidism-related immunosuppression, we evaluated T-cell subpopulations in lymphoid tissues of hypothyroid and control mice. No differences were observed in CD3/CD19 or CD4/CD8 ratios between these strains. However, the frequency of regulatory T cells (Tregs) was significantly increased in hypothyroid mice, and not in Tg-Trh mice. Accordingly, in vitro Tregs differentiation was more pronounced in naïve T cells isolated from hypothyroid mice. Since Tregs overexpress galectin-1 (Gal-1) and mice lacking this lectin (Lgals1-/- ) show reduced Treg function, we investigated the involvement of this immunoregulatory lectin in the control of Tregs in settings of hypothyroidism. Increased T lymphocyte reactivity and reduced frequency of Tregs were found in hypothyroid Lgals1-/- mice when compared to hypothyroid WT animals. This effect was rescued by the addition of recombinant Gal-1. Finally, increased expression of Gal-1 was found in Tregs purified from hypothyroid WT mice compared with their euthyroid counterpart. Thus, a substantial increase in the frequency and activity of Gal-1-expressing Tregs underlies immunosuppression associated with hypothyroid conditions, with critical implications in immunopathology, metabolic disorders, and cancer.
BACKGROUND: An issue that hinders researchers' access to Natural Killer (NK) cells is their low proportion in peripheral blood leukocytes. This issue is currently addressed by methods involving a series of differentiation and expansions that are time-consuming and expensive.OBJECTIVE: We have investigated whether the used leukocyte reduction filters, a by-product in the blood transfusion practice that currently is considered waste, can be utilized as a source of the NK cells.METHODS: Following the blood donation of 46 donors based on the Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization's protocols, a sample of peripheral blood of each donor and the leukocyte reduction filter used in their donation procedure have been obtained. The entrapped cells were flushed back from the leukocyte reduction filters. Both groups of samples were analyzed using an automatic hematological analyzer. NK cell isolation was done by the MACS negative selection method. The samples have been comparatively analyzed utilizing flow cytometry data of NK cells' subpopulation compositions, viability, degranulation patterns, and cytotoxic capacity against the K562 cell line.RESULTS: Every major leukocyte population was abundant in the samples extracted from the used leukocyte reduction filters. The NK cells extracted from leukocyte reduction filters did not show any statistically meaningful differences (P<0.5) from peripheral blood samples in terms of subpopulation composition, viability, degranulation potency, and cytotoxic capacity.CONCLUSION: Used leukocyte reduction filters can be considered an economic, easy to obtain, and robust source of abundant research-grade NK cells.
BACKGROUND: T-helper 17 (Th17) cell response is engaged in the onset of allergic rhinitis (AR). Moreover, interleukin (IL)-38 is thought to be involved in inhibiting cytokine secretion in the Th17 pathway.OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the regulatory function of IL-38 on abnormal Th17 responses in Chinese patients with AR.METHODS: Forty-five participants, divided into an AR group (n=25) and a control group (n=20), were recruited for the study. In addition, the expression of IL-38 and Th17-related cytokines was measured as well as the Th17 cell count in participants. By implementing recombinant IL-38 (rIL-38), the intervention of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) was performed. Then, flow cytometry, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used to detect the Th17 milieu.RESULTS: The expression of IL-38 in the AR group notably reduced compared with that in the control, whereas Th17 cell frequency and the expression levels of its transcription factor (RORC) and cytokines (IL-17A and IL-23) increased. The differentiation and immune function of Th17 cells in PBMCs were inhibited by rIL-38.CONCLUSION: Th17 responses are inhibited by IL-38 in patients with AR. Therefore, the obtained findings indicate that IL-38 is a potential therapeutic target for Chinese patients with AR.
BACKGROUND: Little is known about MBD2's epigenetic regulation in the immune pathogenesis of CD4+T cell differentiation.OBJECTIVE: This study attempted to explore the mechanism of methyl-cpg-binding domain protein 2 (MBD2) in CD4+T cell differentiation stimulated by environmental allergen ovalbumin (OVA).METHODS: Mononuclear cells were separated from the spleen tissues of male C57BL/6 mice. The OVA interfered with the differentiation of splenic mononuclear cells and CD4+T cells. The CD4+T cells were obtained by magnetic beads and identified by CD4 labeled antibody. CD4+T cells were transfected with lentivirus to silence MBD2 gene. A methylation quantification kit was used to detect 5-mC levels.RESULTS: The purity of CD4+T cells reached 95.99% after magnetic beads sorting. Treatment with 200 μg/mL OVA stimulated the CD4+T cells differentiation to Th17 cells and promoted the secretion of IL-17. After being induced, the Th17 cell ratio increased. 5-Aza inhibited the Th17 cell differentiation and the IL-17 level in a dose-dependent manner. Under the intervention of the Th17 induction and 5-Aza, MBD2 silencing inhibited the differentiation of Th17 cell, and decreased the IL-17 and 5-mC levels in the cell supernatants. MBD2 silencing reduced the scale of the Th17 cell and IL-17 levels in the OVA-treated CD4+T cells.CONCLUSION: MBD2 affected IL-17 and 5-mC levels by mediating the Th17 cell differentiation in splenic CD4+T cells that were interfered with 5-Aza. OVA induced Th17 differentiation and increased IL-17 levels, inhibited by MBD2 silencing.
CD8+ T cell responses are critical for anti-tumor immunity. While extensively profiled in the tumor microenvironment, recent studies in mice identified responses in lymph nodes (LNs) as essential; however, the role of LNs in human cancer patients remains unknown. We examined CD8+ T cells in human head and neck squamous cell carcinomas, regional LNs, and blood using mass cytometry, single-cell genomics, and multiplexed ion beam imaging. We identified progenitor exhausted CD8+ T cells (Tpex) that were abundant in uninvolved LN and clonally related to terminally exhausted cells in the tumor. After anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy, Tpex in uninvolved LNs reduced in frequency but localized near dendritic cells and proliferating intermediate-exhausted CD8+ T cells (Tex-int), consistent with activation and differentiation. LN responses coincided with increased circulating Tex-int. In metastatic LNs, these response hallmarks were impaired, with immunosuppressive cellular niches. Our results identify important roles for LNs in anti-tumor immune responses in humans.
Olfaction, a universal form of chemical communication, is a powerful channel for animals to obtain social and environmental cues. The mechanisms by which fish olfaction affects reproduction, breeding and disease control are not yet clear. To evaluate metabolites profiles, plasma from anosmic and control black porgy during reproduction was analyzed by non-targeted metabolomics using ultra high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and multivariate statistical analysis techniques, including principal component analysis and orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis. The metabolite profiles of anosmia and control groups were found to be significantly separated. Ten different differential metabolites, mainly including amino acids, such as isoleucine and methionine, and lipids, such as phosphatidylserine, were screened based on the combined analysis of variable importance in the projection and p values. In addition, six key differential metabolic pathways were analyzed using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and enriched for four metabolic pathways including the citrate acid (TCA) cycle, tyrosine metabolism, arginine and proline metabolism, and arginine synthesis. The TCA cycle enhances fertility through the reduction of pyruvate kinase, and intermediate derivatives (acetyl CoA, malonyl CoA) act as signaling factors that regulate immune cell function. The tyrosine cycle can indirectly participate and promote reproduction in black porgy through melanin-concentrating hormone. Arginine and proline metabolism can promote reproduction by promoting growth hormone and enhance immunity in anosmic black porgy by stimulating T lymphocytes. Our metabolomic study revealed that anosmia in black porgy played an active role in immunity and reproduction and provided theoretical support for breeding and disease control.
Author information:(1)Dr. Senckenbergisches Institut für Pathologie, Goethe-Universität Frankfurt, Theodor-Stern-Kai 7, 60590, Frankfurt am Main, Deutschland. s.hartmann@em.uni-frankfurt.de.(2)Institut für Pathologie und Neuropathologie, Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen, Tübingen, Deutschland.
The development of immunosuppressants has enabled remarkable progress in kidney transplantation (KT). However, current immunosuppressants cannot induce immune tolerance, and their nonspecific immunosuppressive effects result in many adverse effects. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) play crucial roles in controlling all specific immune responses. This study evaluated the distribution of Tregs and their effects on kidney allograft function in Korean KT recipients. We enrolled 113 KT recipients with stable graft function. The differentiation and expansion of Tregs were examined by flow cytometry to compare the Tregs subpopulations. Among the 113 patients, 73 (64.6%) were males, and the mean follow-up period from KT to Tregs collection was 147.5 + 111.3 months. Patients receiving lower doses of cyclosporine had higher proportions of Tregs than those with higher doses of cyclosporine (36.3 + 21.6 vs 17.0 + 12.7, P = .010, respectively). Patients taking cyclosporine tended to have higher Tregs numbers than those taking tacrolimus (94.7 + 158.1 vs 49.3 + 69.4, P = .095, respectively). However, no significant association was observed between Tregs and allograft dysfunction in the cox proportional hazard model. Tregs counts may be associated with the type and dose of immunosuppressants. However, no significant relationship was found between Tregs and kidney allograft function in stable KT recipients.
The Sin3 transcriptional regulator homolog A (Sin3A) is the core member of a multiprotein chromatin-modifying complex. Its inactivation at the CD4/CD8 double-negative stage halts further thymocyte development. Among various functions, Sin3A regulates STAT3 transcriptional activity, central to the differentiation of Th17 cells active in inflammatory disorders and opportunistic infections. To further investigate the consequences of conditional Sin3A inactivation in more mature precursors and post-thymic T cell, we have generated CD4-Cre and CD4-CreERT2 Sin3AF/F mice. Sin3A inactivation in vivo hinders both thymocyte development and peripheral T-cell survival. In vitro, in Th17 skewing conditions, Sin3A-deficient cells proliferate and acquire memory markers and yet fail to properly upregulate Il17a, Il23r, and Il22. Instead, IL-2+ and FOXP3+ are mostly enriched for, and their inhibition partially rescues IL-17A+ T cells. Notably, Sin3A deletion also causes an enrichment of genes implicated in the mTORC1 signaling pathway, overt STAT3 activation, and aberrant cytoplasmic RORγt accumulation. Thus, together our data unveil a previously unappreciated role for Sin3A in shaping critical signaling events central to the acquisition of immunoregulatory T-cell phenotypes.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of tofacitinib in adult anti-melanoma differentiation-associated 5 gene (Anti-MDA5) antibody-positive dermatomyositis (DM) patients and evaluate the effects of tofacitinib on peripheral lymphocyte subsets.METHODS: An open-label study was conducted of 15 new-onset, untreated adult patients with anti-MDA5-positive DM for tofacitinib with a dose of 5mg twice per day. The primary outcome was defined by the total improvement score after treatment for 6 months, classified according to the 2016 American College of Rheumatology/ European League Against Rheumatism (ACR/EULAR) response criteria for adult DM and polymyositis. Secondary outcomes after 6 months treatment comprised the change in predicted forced vital capacity, the percentage of predicted carbon monoxide diffusion capacity, ferritin level and peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets measured by flow cytometry.RESULTS: Disease responses occurred in 10 patients (71.4%) after 6 months. The median total improvement score was 43.75 (41.875-59.375). Two patients achieved major improvement, seven achieved moderate and one minimal. The serum ferritin level (p = 0.008), DLCO% (p = 0.009) was improved and a marked increase in total lymphocyte cells (p = 0.045) and CD8+ T cells (p = 0.006) was measured after 6 months treatment compared to baseline.CONCLUSION: Tofacitinib demonstrates efficacy for new-onset, untreated adult patients with anti-MDA5-positive DM and stimulates proliferation of peripheral lymphocyte subsets (especially total lymphocyte cells and CD8+ T cells) after 6 months treatment. Further studies are warranted to validate the current findings. Key Points • Treatment of anti-melanoma differentiation-associated 5 gene antibody positive dermatomyositis is always challenging. • This prospective, open-label clinical trial demonstrates tofacitinib is an effective and safe agent for new-onset adult patients with anti-MDA5-positive DM. • Tofacitinib treatment results in an increase in peripheral lymphocyte numbers, especially CD8+ T cells at 6 months compared with pre-treatment levels.
Enhancers activate gene transcription remotely, which requires tissue specific transcription factors binding to them. GATA1 and TAL1 are hematopoietic/erythroid-specific factors and often bind together to enhancers, activating target genes. Interestingly, we found that some hematopoietic/erythroid genes are transcribed in a GATA1-dependent but TAL1-independnet manner. They appear to have enhancers within a relatively short distance. In this study, we paired highly transcribed hematopoietic/erythroid genes with the nearest GATA1/TAL1-binding enhancers and analyzed these putative enhancer-gene pairs depending on distance between them. Enhancers located at various distances from genes in the pairs, which was not related to transcription level of the genes. However, genes with enhancers at short distances away tended to be transcriptionally unaffected by TAL1 depletion. Histone H3K27ac extended from the enhancers to target genes. The H3K27ac extension was maintained without TAL1, even though it disappeared owing to the loss of GATA1. Intergenic RNA was highly transcribed from the enhancers to nearby target genes, independent of TAL1. Taken together, TAL1-independent transcription of hematopoietic/erythroid genes appears to be promoted by enhancers present in a short distance. These enhancers are likely to activate nearby target genes by tracking the intervening regions.
BACKGROUND: Oral ulcers represent a full thickness loss of the mucosal epithelium leading to exposure of the submucosal connective tissue. These are common and usually self-limited lesions, although they may sometimes result from neoplasms, most commonly squamous cell carcinoma. Lymphoproliferative disorders may be difficult to diagnose in apthous ulcers since they mimic reactive inflammation.METHODS: This review presents ten rare oral lymphoid proliferations which should not be missed when assessing oral ulcer biopsies.RESULTS: The ten lesions include several with diagnostic cells which look similar to the histiocytes of a reactive inflammatory ulcer, including Rosai-Dorfman disease, reticulohistiocytoma, Langerhans cell histiocytosis, and traumatic ulcerative granuloma. Other lesions, such as EBV-positive mucocutaneous ulcer, extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of mucosal-associated lymphoid tissue, and plasmablastic lymphoma have lymphoid and/or plasma cell differentiation that mimic the reactive lymphocytes and plasma cells found in reactive ulcers. Two dendritic cell lesions, follicular dendritic cell sarcoma and blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm, both have distinct phenotypes which are required to make an accurate diagnosis.CONCLUSION: Each of these lesions are diagnosed by evaluating their histology, along with their phenotypic profile, which is sometimes enhanced by pertinent molecular findings.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to evaluate neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio in children with acute heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy, to assess the predictive and prognostic values of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, and to correlate its levels with brain natriuretic peptide and other various data in these patients.METHOD: We included 50 children with acute heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy as the patient group. Fifty healthy children of matched age and sex served as the control group. Patients were evaluated clinically and by echocardiography. A complete blood count with differentiation to evaluate neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio was done, and the serum level of brain natriuretic peptide was also measured. All patients were followed up for death or readmission for a period of one year.RESULTS: Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio was significantly higher in patient group as compared to the control group. Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio was significantly increased in patients with higher severity of heart failure. There was a significant increase in neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio in patients with bad prognoses compared to those with good prognoses. There was a significant positive correlation between neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and both brain natriuretic peptide and clinical stage of heart failure while there was a significant negative correlation between neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and left ventricular systolic function. The best cut-off of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio to predict adverse outcomes in children with dilated cardiomyopathy was >3.6 with 87% sensitivity and 79% specificity. The cut-off of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio to predict patients who will not respond to conventional treatment was ≥3.85 with 85% sensitivity and 100% specificity.CONCLUSION: Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio is a cheap good predictive and prognostic biomarker in children with dilated cardiomyopathy.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by an increased proliferation and loss of differentiation of hematopoietic myeloid progenitors or precursors. Studies performed in AML-affected patients revealed a T cell deficiency characterized by a reduced thymic output and peripheral functional abnormalities. To assess for the thymus function during AML, we used an AML mouse model and showed a drastic thymic atrophy. We observed a massive loss among double (CD4+CD8+- DP) and single positive (CD4+/8+- SP) thymocytes. We assessed for the expression of different actors of cell death signalling pathways by RT-qPCR or Western blotting. When comparing leukemic to control mice, there was a significant increase in the expression of Mlkl gene, phosphorylated MLKL and RIPK3 proteins, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha receptors 1 on DP and SP thymocytes. These findings revealed a necroptosis cell death which was also observed in vitro when using cultured wild-type thymocytes and recombinant TNF-alpha protein. Thus, we demonstrated that TNF-alpha plays a deleterious role in thymic function during AML by contributing to extensive thymocytes' death.
PURPOSE: Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has significantly improved clinical outcomes in bladder cancer. Identification of correlates of benefit is critical to select appropriate therapy for individual patients.METHODS: To reveal genetic variables associated with benefit from ICB, we performed whole-exome sequencing on tumor specimens from 88 patients with advanced bladder cancer treated with ICB.RESULTS: We identified several genetic factors that correlated with progression-free and overall survival after ICB therapy including ARID1A mutation, tumor mutational burden, intratumoral heterogeneity, the ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous mutations in the immunopeptidome (immune dN/dS), and tumor cell purity. In addition, we noted that neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and smoking history were negatively associated with overall survival. These genetic characteristics define four molecular subtypes demonstrating differential sensitivity to ICB. We validated the association of these four subtypes with clinical benefit from ICB in an independent cohort (IMvigor210). Finally, we showed that these molecular subtypes also correlate with outcome, although with distinct relationships, among patients not treated with ICB using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) bladder cancer cohort. Using parallel RNA sequencing data, the subtypes were also shown to correlate with immune infiltration and inflammation, respectively, in the IMvigor210 and TCGA cohorts.CONCLUSION: Together, our study defines molecular subgroups of bladder cancer that influence benefit from ICB.
Despite continued advances that have led to improved survival of patients with multiple myeloma (MM) over the years, MM remains largely incurable with overall survival in patients who have progressed after proteasome inhibitor, immunomodulatory drug, and anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody therapy measured in months. Better understanding of the immunopathology of MM has led to the discovery of newer treatment targets like B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA). BCMA is a tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily expressed on normal B-lymphocytes and malignant plasma cells with a vital role in proliferation, maturation, and differentiation of normal and malignant plasma cells. Antibody drug conjugates, chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells and bispecific T-cell engagers targeting the BCMA antigen are now available within and outside of clinical trials for treatment of triple class refractory MM. This review article focuses on the evolution, safety, efficacy, and limitations of BCMA-directed CAR T-cell therapies. It also discusses the challenges unveiled by the incorporation of these CAR T-cells in the treatment paradigm of MM and deliberates on the future of CAR T-cell therapy within MM.
Tissue-resident memory T cells (Trms) are an important subset of lymphocytes that are lodged within non-lymphoid tissues and carry out diverse functions to control local pathogen replication. CD103 has been used to broadly define subsets of Trms within the intestine, with CD103+ and CD103- subsets having unique transcriptional profiles and effector functions. Here we identify signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (STAT4) as an important regulator of CD103- Trm differentiation. STAT4-deficient cells trafficked to the intestine and localized to areas of infection but displayed impaired Trm differentiation with fewer CD103- Trms. Single-cell RNA-sequencing demonstrated that STAT4-deficiency led to a reduction in CD103- Trm subsets and expansion of a single population of CD103+ cells. Alterations in Trm populations were due, in part, to STAT4-mediated inhibition of transforming growth factor (TGF)-β-driven expression of Trm signature genes. STAT4-dependent Trm populations expressed genes associated with cytokine production and cell migration, and STAT4-deficient Trm cells had altered localization within the tissue and reduced effector function after reactivation in vivo. Overall, our data indicate that STAT4 leads to increased differentiation of CD103- Trms, in part by modulating the expression of TGF-β-regulated genes, and results in increased Trm heterogeneity and function within the intestinal tissue.
Nanoparticles (NPs) coated with peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (pMHCs) can be used as a therapy to treat autoimmune diseases. They do so by inducing the differentiation and expansion of disease-suppressing T regulatory type 1 (Tr1) cells by binding to their T cell receptors (TCRs) expressed as TCR-nanoclusters (TCRnc). Their efficacy can be controlled by adjusting NP size and number of pMHCs coated on them (referred to as valence). The binding of these NPs to TCRnc on T cells is thus polyvalent and occurs at three levels: the TCR-pMHC, NP-TCRnc and T cell levels. In this study, we explore how this polyvalent interaction is manifested and examine if it can facilitate T cell activation downstream. This is done by developing a multiscale biophysical model that takes into account the three levels of interactions and the geometrical complexity of the binding. Using the model, we quantify several key parameters associated with this interaction analytically and numerically, including the insertion probability that specifies the number of remaining pMHC binding sites in the contact area between T cells and NPs, the dwell time of interaction between NPs and TCRnc, carrying capacity of TCRnc, the distribution of covered and bound TCRs, and cooperativity in the binding of pMHCs within the contact area. The model was fit to previously published dose-response curves of interferon-γ obtained experimentally by stimulating a population of T cells with increasing concentrations of NPs at various valences and NP sizes. Exploring the parameter space of the model revealed that for an appropriate choice of the contact area angle, the model can produce moderate jumps between dose-response curves at low valences. This suggests that the geometry and kinetics of NP binding to TCRnc can act in synergy to facilitate T cell activation.
BACKGROUND: Zinc, one of the most important essential trace elements in the human body, regulates a wide range of cellular functions of immune cells, such as proliferation, differentiation and survival. Zinc deficiency affects both the innate and adaptive immune system. Zinc supplementation was discussed as possible therapy for infectious diseases and T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases. However, the influence of commercial zinc preparations on proliferation and cytokine production of resting and antigen-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) has not yet been completely investigated.METHODS: Here, we examined whether zinc aspartate (Unizink®), an approved drug to treat zinc deficiency in patients, induces proliferation, cytokine production, and induction of apoptosis/caspase 3/7 activity of resting PBMC under high-density cell culture condition. In addition, we performed antigen-specific proliferation experiments, where PBMCs of healthy donors vaccinated against Influenza A (H1N1) and/or SARS-CoV-2 were stimulated with Influenza A (H1N1) peptides or SARS-CoV-2 peptides as well as the Mixed Lymphocyte Culture (MLC) in the presence of increasing concentrations of zinc aspartate.RESULTS: We observed a dose-dependent enhancement of proliferation and induction of cytokine production (IFN-γ, IL-5, GM-CSF and CXCL10) of resting PBMC in presence of zinc aspartate. The number of cells with active caspase 3/7 and, consecutively, the amount of cells undergoing apoptosis steadily decreased in presence of zinc aspartate. Moreover, zinc aspartate was capable of stimulating antigen-specific PBMC proliferation using MLC or influenza A (H1N1) and SARS-CoV-2 peptides in both a dose-dependent and a donor-specific manner. In the absence of zinc aspartate, we clearly could discriminate two groups of responders: low and high responders to antigenic stimulation. The addition of increasing concentration of zinc aspartate significantly stimulated the proliferation of PBMC from low responders, but not from high responders.CONCLUSION: Taken together, our results suggest that zinc aspartate induces the proliferation of resting and antigen-stimulated PBMCs under high-density cell culture conditions. Thus, zinc might represent a supportive treatment in patients suffering from infectious diseases.
Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a potentially life-threatening inflammatory myeloid neoplasia linked to paediatric neurodegeneration, whereby transformed LCH cells form agglomerated lesions in various organs. Although MAP-kinase pathway mutations have been identified in LCH cells, the functional consequences of these mutations and the mechanisms that cause the pathogenic behaviour of LCH cells are not well understood. In our study, we used an in vitro differentiation system and RNA-sequencing to compare monocyte-derived dendritic cells from LCH patients to those derived from healthy controls or patients with Crohn's disease, a non-histiocytic inflammatory disease. We observed that Interferon-γ treatment exacerbated intrinsic differences between LCH patient and control cells, including strikingly increased endoand exocytosis gene activity in LCH patients. We validated these transcriptional patterns in lesions and functionally confirmed that LCH cells exhibited increased endo- and exocytosis. Furthermore, RNA-sequencing of extracellular vesicles (EV) revealed the enrichment of pathological transcripts involved in cell adhesion, MAP-kinase pathway, vesicle trafficking and T-cell activation in LCH patients. Thus, we tested the effect of the LCH secretome on lymphocyte activity and found significant activation of NK cells. These findings implicate EVs in the pathology of LCH for the first time, in line with their established roles in the formation of various other tumour niches. Thus, we describe novel traits of LCH patient cells and suggest a pathogenic mechanism of potential therapeutic and diagnostic importance.
Comment in    Int J Biol Sci. 2023 Feb 23;19(5):1401-1402.
The placenta has a unique hypomethylated genome. Due to this feature of the placenta, there is a potential possibility of using regulatory elements derived from retroviruses and retrotransposons, which are suppressed by DNA methylation in the adult body. In addition, there is an abnormal increase in the level of methylation of the LINE-1 retrotransposon in the chorionic trophoblast in spontaneous abortions with both normal karyotype and aneuploidy on different chromosomes, which may be associated with impaired gene transcription using LINE-1 regulatory elements. To date, 988 genes that can be expressed from alternative LINE-1 promoters have been identified. Using the STRING tool, genes (NUP153 and YWHAB) were selected, the products of which have significant functional relationships with proteins highly expressed in the placenta and involved in trophoblast differentiation. This study aimed to analyze the expression of the NUP153 and YWHAB genes, highly active in the placenta, from canonical and alternative LINE-1 promoters in the germinal part of the placenta of spontaneous and induced abortions. Gene expression analysis was performed using real-time PCR in chorionic villi and extraembryonic mesoderm of induced abortions (n = 10), adult lymphocytes (n = 10), spontaneous abortions with normal karyotype (n = 10), and with the most frequent aneuploidies in the first trimester of pregnancy (trisomy 16 (n = 8) and monosomy X (n = 6)). The LINE-1 methylation index was assessed in the chorionic villi of spontaneous abortions using targeted bisulfite massive parallel sequencing. The level of expression of both genes from canonical promoters was higher in blood lymphocytes than in placental tissues (p < 0.05). However, the expression level of the NUP153 gene from the alternative LINE-1 promoter was 17 times higher in chorionic villi and 23 times higher in extraembryonic mesoderm than in lymphocytes (p < 0.05). The expression level of NUP153 and YWHAB from canonical promoters was higher in the group of spontaneous abortions with monosomy X compared to all other groups (p <0.05). The LINE-1 methylation index negatively correlated with the level of gene expression from both canonical (NUP153 - R = -0.59, YWHAB - R = -0.52, p < 0.05) and alternative LINE-1 promoters (NUP153 - R = -0.46, YWHAB - R = -0.66, p < 0.05). Thus, the observed increase in the LINE-1 methylation index in the placenta of spontaneous abortions is associated with the level of expression of the NUP153 and YWHAB genes not only from alternative but also from canonical promoters, which can subsequently lead to negative consequences for normal embryogenesis.
INTRODUCTION: CD8+ T cells infiltrate virtually every tissue to find and destroy infected or mutated cells. They often traverse varying oxygen levels and nutrient-deprived microenvironments. High glycolytic activity in local tissues can result in significant exposure of cytotoxic T cells to the lactate metabolite. Lactate has been known to act as an immunosuppressor, at least in part due to its association with tissue acidosis.METHODS: To dissect the role of the lactate anion, independently of pH, we performed phenotypical and metabolic assays, high-throughput RNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry, on primary cultures of murine or human CD8+ T cells exposed to high doses of pH-neutral sodium lactate.RESULTS: The lactate anion is well tolerated by CD8+ T cells in pH neutral conditions. We describe how lactate is taken up by activated CD8+ T cells and can displace glucose as a carbon source. Activation in the presence of sodium lactate significantly alters the CD8+ T cell transcriptome, including the expression key effector differentiation markers such as granzyme B and interferon-gamma.DISCUSSION: Our studies reveal novel metabolic features of lactate utilization by activated CD8+ T cells, and highlight the importance of lactate in shaping the differentiation and activity of cytotoxic T cells.
Invasive breast carcinoma of no special type (IBC-NST) with medullary pattern is an uncommon histologic type of invasive breast carcinoma. It is associated with high-grade, poorly differentiated tumor cells that form large sheets of irregular confluent tumor cells associated with a prominent lymphocytic infiltrate. Patients with IBC-NST with medullary pattern are often postmenopausal women with a high body mass index and multiparity. We report the case of a 71-year-old woman who presented for routine screening mammography and breast mass suspicious for malignancy, initially thought to be invasive ductal carcinoma with an associated prominent lymphoid infiltrate. However, it was ultimately diagnosed as IBC-NST with medullary pattern, and radiologic imaging (particularly ultrasound and mammography) along with pathology review were critical in making the diagnosis. We make the case of the importance of radiographic imaging in diagnosing this condition, as the prognosis of IBC-NST with medullary pattern is typically more favorable compared to IBC-NST.
Some patients experience mixed response to immunotherapy, whose biological mechanisms and clinical impact have been obscure. We obtained two tumor samples from lymph node (LN) metastatic lesions in a same patient. Whole exome sequencing for the both tumors and single-cell sequencing for the both tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) demonstrated a significant difference in tumor clonality and TILs' characteristics, especially exhausted T-cell clonotypes, although a close relationship between the tumor cell and T-cell clones were observed as a response of an overlapped exhausted T-cell clone to an overlapped neoantigen. To mimic the clinical setting, we generated a mouse model of several clones from a same tumor cell line. Similarly, differential tumor clones harbored distinct TILs, and one responded to programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade but the other did not in this model. We further conducted cohort study (n = 503) treated with PD-1 blockade monotherapies to investigate the outcome of mixed response. Patients with mixed responses to PD-1 blockade had a poor prognosis in our cohort. Particularly, there were significant differences in both tumor and T-cell clones between the primary and LN lesions in a patient who experienced tumor response to anti-PD-1 mAb followed by disease progression in only LN metastasis. Our results underscore that intertumoral heterogeneity alters characteristics of TILs even in the same patient, leading to mixed response to immunotherapy and significant difference in the outcome.SIGNIFICANCE: Several patients experience mixed responses to immunotherapies, but the biological mechanisms and clinical significance remain unclear. Our results from clinical and mouse studies underscore that intertumoral heterogeneity alters characteristics of TILs even in the same patient, leading to mixed response to immunotherapy and significant difference in the outcome.
CD19-redirected chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have shown remarkable activity against B-cell cancers. While second-generation CARs induce complete remission in >80% of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, similar monotherapy induces long-term remissions in only 26% of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This disparity is attributed to cell-intrinsic effector defects in autologous CLL-derived T cells. However, the mechanisms by which leukemic cells impact CAR T-cell potency are poorly understood. Herein we describe an in vitro assay that recapitulates endogenous CLL-mediated T-cell defects in healthy donor CAR T cells. Contact with CLL cells insufficiently activates, but does not irreversibly impair, CAR T-cell function. This state is rescuable by strong antigenic stimulation or IL2, and is not driven by immune suppression. Rather, this activation defect is attributable to low levels of costimulatory molecules on CLL cells, and exogenous costimulation enhanced CAR T-cell activation. We next assessed the stimulatory phenotype of CLL cells derived from different niches within the same patient. Lymph node (LN)-derived CLL cells had a strong costimulatory phenotype and promoted better CAR T-cell degranulation and cytokine production than matched peripheral blood CLL cells. Finally, in vitro CD40L-activated CLL cells acquired a costimulatory phenotype similar to the LN-derived tumor and stimulated improved CAR T-cell proliferation, cytokine production, and cytotoxicity. Together, these data identify insufficient activation as a driver of poor CAR T-cell responses in CLL. The costimulatory phenotype of CLL cells drives differential CAR T-cell responses, and can be augmented by improving costimulatory signaling.SIGNIFICANCE: CLL cells insufficiently activate CAR T cells, driven by low levels of costimulatory molecules on the tumor. LN-derived CLL cells are more costimulatory and mediate enhanced CAR T-cell killing. This costimulatory phenotype can be modeled via CD40 L activation, and the activated tumor promotes stronger CAR T-cell responses.
Bacterial pulmonary infections are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in neonates, with less severity in older children. Previous studies demonstrated that the DNA of CD4+ T cells in the mouse lung, whose primary responsibility is to coordinate the immune response to foreign pathogens, is differentially methylated in neonates compared with juveniles. Nevertheless, the effect of this differential DNA methylation on CD4+ T cell gene expression and response to infection remains unclear. Here we treated E. coli-infected neonatal (4-day-old) and juvenile (13-day-old) mice with decitabine (DAC), a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor with broad-spectrum DNA demethylating activity, and performed simultaneous genome-wide DNA methylation and transcriptional profiling on lung CD4+ T cells. We show that juvenile and neonatal mice experienced differential demethylation in response to DAC treatment, with larger methylation differences observed in neonates. By cross-filtering differentially expressed genes between juveniles and neonates with those sites that were demethylated in neonates, we find that interferon-responsive genes such as Ifit1 are the most down-regulated methylation-sensitive genes in neonatal mice. DAC treatment shifted neonatal lung CD4+ T cells toward a gene expression program similar to that of juveniles. Following lung infection with E. coli, lung CD4+ T cells in neonatal mice exhibit epigenetic repression of important host defense pathways, which are activated by inhibition of DNA methyltransferase activity to resemble a more mature profile.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2023 May;23(5):270.
Initiating from multipotent progenitors, the lineages extrapolated from hematopoietic stem cells are determined by transcription factors specific to each of them. The commitment factors assist in the differentiation of progenitor cells into terminally differentiated cells. B lymphocytes constitute a population of cells that expresses clonally diverse cell surface immunoglobulin (Ig) receptors specific to antigenic epitopes. B cells are a significant facet of the adaptive immune system. The secreted antibodies corresponding to the B cell recognize the antigens via the B cell receptor (BCR). Following antigen recognition, the B cell is activated and thereafter undergoes clonal expansion and proliferation to become memory B cells. The essence of 'cellular reprogramming' has aided in reliably altering the cells to desired tissue type. The potential of reprogramming has been harnessed to decipher and find solutions for various genetically inherited diseases and degenerative disorders. B lymphocytes can be reprogrammed to their initial naive state from where they get differentiated into any lineage or cell type similar to a pluripotent stem cell which can be accomplished by the deletion of master regulators of the B cell lineage. B cells can be reprogrammed into pluripotent stem cells and also can undergo transdifferentiation at the midway of cell differentiation to other cell types. Mandated expression of C/EBP in specialized B cells corresponds to their fast and effective reprogramming into macrophages, reversing the cell fate of these lymphocytes and allowing them to differentiate freshly into other types of cells. The co-expression of C/EBPα and OKSM (Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, c-Myc) amplified the reprogramming efficiency of B lymphocytes. Various human somatic cells including the immune cells are compliant to reprogramming which paves a path for opportunities like autologous tissue grafts, blood transfusion, and cancer immunotherapy. The ability to reprogram B cells offers an unprecedented opportunity for developing a therapeutic approach for several human diseases. Here, we will focus on all the proteins and transcription factors responsible for the developmental commitment of B lymphocytes and how it is harnessed in various applications.
Integrins are a family of cell surface receptors well-recognized for their therapeutic potential in a wide range of diseases. However, the development of integrin targeting medications has been impacted by unexpected downstream effects, reflecting originally unforeseen interference with the bidirectional signalling and cross-communication of integrins. We here selected one of the most severely affected target integrins, the integrin lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1, αLβ2, CD11a/CD18), as a prototypic integrin to systematically assess and overcome these known shortcomings. We employed a two-tiered ligand-based virtual screening approach to identify a novel class of allosteric small molecule inhibitors targeting this integrin's αI domain. The newly discovered chemical scaffold was derivatized, yielding potent bis-and tris-aryl-bicyclic-succinimides which inhibit LFA-1 in vitro at low nanomolar concentrations. The characterisation of these compounds in comparison to earlier LFA-1 targeting modalities established that the allosteric LFA-1 inhibitors (i) are devoid of partial agonism, (ii) selectively bind LFA-1 versus other integrins, (iii) do not trigger internalization of LFA-1 itself or other integrins and (iv) display oral availability. This profile differentiates the new generation of allosteric LFA-1 inhibitors from previous ligand mimetic-based LFA-1 inhibitors and anti-LFA-1 antibodies, and is projected to support novel immune regulatory regimens selectively targeting the integrin LFA-1. The rigorous computational and experimental assessment schedule described here is designed to be adaptable to the preclinical discovery and development of novel allosterically acting compounds targeting integrins other than LFA-1, providing an exemplary approach for the early characterisation of next generation integrin inhibitors.
BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint inhibitors combined with chemotherapy as a neoadjuvant therapy have been applied to the treatment of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). However, the optimal regimen needs to be further explored, particularly for older patients, and the mechanisms by which the immune checkpoint inhibitor combined with chemotherapy modulates the evolution of ESCC are unknown.METHODS: In this single-arm phase 2 trial, patients with resectable (stage II/III/IV without metastasis) ESCC were enrolled and received nanoparticle albumin-bound (nab) paclitaxel for two cycles and oral S-1 for 2 weeks, combined with intravenous toripalimab for two cycles before surgery. Combination postoperative adjuvant therapy was administered. The primary outcome was the major pathological response (MPR). Secondary outcomes included pathological complete response (pCR), overall response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS), improvement in Stooler's dysphagia score and degree of daily living ability (dADL). Biopsies and plasma pre- and post-neoadjuvant therapy were performed using whole-exome sequencing, transcriptome sequencing, immunohistochemistry (IHC) for PD-L1, multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) and proximity extension assay technology (PEA) for 92 proteins.FINDINGS: From November 2019 to July 2021, 60 patients were enrolled. After neoadjuvant therapy, R0 resection was achieved in 55 (98.21%) patients. MPR was identified in 27 patients (49.09%), and 16 patients (29.09%) achieved pCR. Patients with PR, SD and PD were 37 (61.67%), 21 (35.00%) and 2 (3.33%), respectively. The overall staging, Stooler dysphagia scores and dADL were significantly decreased after treatment. 11 patients (18.3%) experienced grade ≥3 AEs. Compared to PD-L1-Low patients, PD-L1-High patients had a significantly higher ratio of PR. During therapy, the tumor mutation burden (TMB) and tumor neoantigen burden (TNB) were significantly decreased in patients with PR. Differential clonal evolution within tumors was demonstrated by analysis of intratumoral heterogeneity. Transcriptome analyses revealed that the infiltration of CD4+ T lymphocytes at baseline was associated with clinical outcome. During therapy, CD8+ T cells and CD4+ T cells were increased in all patients; however, exhausted cells, nTregs and iTregs were significantly increased in patients with non-MPR. Protein analyses revealed that the levels of IFN-γ, Gal.1 and LAMP3 can predict the clinical benefit. In addition, the expression of CD83, TNFRSF4, TNFSF14, VEGFR2, ADA, ARG1, and HO-1 was associated with serious AEs. More importantly, the integration of CD4+ T cells with plasma protein of IFN-γ, Gal.1 or LAMP3 could further distinguish responders from non-responders.INTERPRETATION: In this study, neoadjuvant therapy with toripalimab, nab-paclitaxel and S-1 was less toxic and showed promising antitumor activity in patients with resectable ESCC. Changes in the genome, transcriptome, PD-L1 expression and serum proteins were comprehensively analyzed and correlated with clinical outcomes, which provides insight into the mechanism of action of toripalimab combined with nab-paclitaxel and S-1 in patients with ESCC.FUNDING: This study was funded by Major projects of the ministry of science and technology of the 13th five-year plan of China [grant number: 2018ZX09201013].
The beneficial effects of the polyphenolic compound piceatannol (PC) has been reported for metabolic diseases, antiproliferative, antioxidant, and anti-cancer properties. Despite its beneficial effects on inflammatory diseases, little is known about how PC regulates inflammatory responses and adipogenesis. Therefore, this study was designed to determine the effects of PC on the inflammatory response and adipogenesis. The effect of PC on splenocytes, 3T3-L1 adipocytes, and RAW264.7 macrophages was analyzed by flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, morphometry, and western blot analysis. PC induced apoptosis in activated T cells in a dose-dependent manner using stimulated splenocytes and reduced the activation of T cells, altered T cell frequency, and interestingly induced the frequency of regulatory T (Treg) cells as compared to controls. PC suppressed the expression of TNF-α, iNOS, IL-6R, and NF-κB activation in RAW264.7 macrophages after lipopolysaccharides (LPS)-induction as compared to the control. Interestingly, PC altered the cell morphology of 3T3-L1 adipocytes with a concomitant decrease in cell volume, lipid deposition, and TNF-α expression, but upregulation of leptin and IL-1β. Our findings suggested that PC induced apoptosis in activated T cells, decreased immune cell activation and inflammatory response, and hindered adipogenesis. This new set of data provides promising hope as a new therapeutic to treat both inflammatory disease and obesity.
Cell competition has recently emerged as an important tumor suppressor mechanism in the thymus that inhibits autonomous thymic maintenance. Here, we show that the oncogenic transcription factor Lmo2 causes autonomous thymic maintenance in transgenic mice by inhibiting early T cell differentiation. This autonomous thymic maintenance results in the development of self-renewing preleukemic stem cells (pre-LSCs) and subsequent leukemogenesis, both of which are profoundly inhibited by restoration of thymic competition or expression of the antiapoptotic factor BCL2. Genomic analyses revealed the presence of Notch1 mutations in pre-LSCs before subsequent loss of tumor suppressors promotes the transition to overt leukemogenesis. These studies demonstrate a critical role for impaired cell competition in the development of pre-LSCs in a transgenic mouse model of T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), implying that this process plays a role in the ontogeny of human T-ALL.
In obesity, disturbed glutamine metabolism contributes to enhanced inflammation by inducing alterations in immune cells. As macrophages and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are known to be involved in the pathogenesis of obesity-related asthma, we tested our hypothesis that altered glutamine metabolism may link obesity to airway hyperresponsivenss (AHR), a cardinal feature of asthma, focusing on these innate immune cells. Four-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) for 13 wk in the presence or absence of BPTES [Bis-2-(5-phenylacetamido-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl)ethyl sulfide, a selective inhibitor of glutaminase 1 which converts glutamine to glutamate] and their blood, lung, and adipose tissues were analyzed. We then conducted in vitro experiments using bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) and mouse alveolar macrophage cell line. Furthermore, we investigated plasma glutamine and glutamate levels in obese and nonobese asthmatics. BPTES treatment prevented HFD-induced AHR and significantly decreased IL-1β+ classically activated macrophages (M1s) and type 3 ILCs (ILC3s) which increased in the lungs of HFD-fed obese mice. In in vitro experiments, BPTES treatment or glutamine supplement significantly reduced the proportion of IL-1β+NLRP3+ M1s in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated BMDMs and mouse alveolar macrophage cell line. BPTES treatment also significantly reduced the IL-17 producing ILC3s differentiated from ILCs in naïve mouse lung. In addition, plasma glutamate/glutamine ratios were significantly higher in obese asthmatics compared to nonobese asthmatics. Inhibition of glutaminolysis reverses AHR in HFD-induced obese mice and decreases IL-1β + NLRP3+ M1s and IL-17 producing ILC3s, which suggests altered glutamine metabolism may have a role in the pathogenesis of obesity-related AHR.
CD4 T cells are required, along with antibodies, for complete protection from blood-stage infection with Plasmodium spp., which cause malaria. Without continuous exposure, as on emigration of people from endemic areas, protection from malaria decays. As in other persistent infections, low-level Plasmodium chabaudi infection protects the host from reinfection at 2 months postinfection, a phenomenon termed premunition. Premunition is correlated with T cell responses, rather than antibody levels. We previously showed that while both effector T cells (Teff) and memory T cells (Tmem) are present after infection, Teff protect better than Tmem. Here, we studied T cell kinetics post-infection by labeling dividing Ifng+ T cells with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) in infected Ifng reporter mice. Large drops in specific T cell numbers and Ifng+ cells upon clearance of parasites suggest a mechanism for decay of protection. Although protection decays, CD4 Tmem persist, including a highly differentiated CD27- effector memory (Tem) subset that maintains some Ifng expression. In addition, pretreatment of chronically infected animals with neutralizing antibody to interferon gamma (IFN-γ) or with clodronate liposomes before reinfection decreases premunition, supporting a role for Th1-type immunity to reinfection. A pulse-chase experiment comparing chronically infected to treated animals showed that recently divided Ifng+ T cells, particularly IFN-γ+ TNF+ IL-2- T cells, are promoted by persistent infection. These data suggest that low-level persistent infection reduces CD4+ Tmem and multifunctional Teff survival, but promotes IFN-γ+ TNF+ IL-2- T cells and Ifng+ terminally differentiated effector T cells, and prolongs immunity.
Dear Editor,Mammary Paget's disease (MPD) is an adenocarcinoma localized within the epidermis of the nipple and/or the areola of the breast, and it is as a rule associated with a carcinoma of the underlying lactiferous ducts, where it usually starts. MPD is relatively rare, observed in 0.7-4.3% of all breast cancers (1). We present a patient with MPD and atypical clinical finding as an annular plaque. A 74-year-old Japanese woman with a past medical history of hypothyroidism presented with a 6-month history of an itching plaque on the left areola. The patient had been treated with the application of topical steroids for a duration of approximately 5 months, and showed no clinical improvement. Physical examination showed a pink plaque encircling the nipple on the left areola (Figure 1, a). The right nipple and areola appeared normal (Figure 1, b). No palpable masses were detected within either breast. A 3.5 mm punch biopsy of the skin at the 6 o'clock position of the left areola was performed. Histological examination showed single and small aggregations of atypical cells with large hyperchromatic nuclei and pale-staining, ample cytoplasm throughout the epidermis. There was a lymphocytic infiltration in the dermis (Figure 1, c). Immunohistochemical studies were positive for CK7 and negative for S-100 and HMB45. With the diagnosis of MPD, the patient underwent a partial mastectomy of the left breast center area, consisting of surgical excision of the left nipple, the adjacent surrounding areolar skin, and subcutaneous tissues. Subsequently, radiation therapy for the residual breast was prepared. As has been described in detail by Kanitakis, the skin lesion develops insidiously as a scaly, fissured, or oozing erythema of the nipple and, more rarely, the areola. Advanced lesions present as a well-demarcated, round, ovoid, or polycyclic eczema-like plaque with a pink or red hue. It is occasionally slightly infiltrated and has an erosive, oozing, scaly, or crusted surface. The lesions are almost invariably unilateral, showing centrifugal spread. Retraction or ulceration of the nipple are often noted (1). The present case exhibited a very rare clinical finding of a plaque encircling the nipple, which has not been reported previously. It was initially difficult to establish the diagnosis of MPD, and biopsy was needed to obtain a definitive diagnosis. Differential diagnosis of MPD comprises eczema as atopic dermatitis or contact dermatitis, erosive adenomatosis, and malignant skin condition such as Bowen's disease, superficial basal cell carcinoma, or superficially spreading melanoma. As in the present case, individuals presenting with an annular plaque are often considered to have sebaceous hyperplasia. Sebaceous hyperplasia is a common, benign skin condition involving hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands, common in middle-aged or older adults (2). These lesions can be single or multiple and manifest as yellow, soft, small papules. These papules are occasionally seen around the nipple, forming an annular plaque. In general, sebaceous hyperplasia is described as yellow-colored papules among Caucasians. However, caution is needed, since it is characterized by skin-colored papules among some Asians.In the present case, some pigmentation (2 to 3 mm in diameter) was observed on the left nipple. Pigmented MPD have been reported, and the mechanism underlying the pigmentation is not yet fully understood, but it has been proposed that Paget cells may release melanocytic chemoattractants or basic fibroblast growth factors that stimulate the proliferation of melanocytes within the tumor nests (3). The possibility of physiological pigmentation cannot be ruled out in the present case; on the other hand, the possibility of pigmented MPD cannot be ruled out either, since no pigmentation was observed on the right nipple.
Acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) are life-threatening conditions triggered by multiple intra- and extra-pulmonary injury factors, characterized by complicated molecular mechanisms and high mortality. Great strides have been made in the field of immunometabolism to clarify the interplay between intracellular metabolism and immune function in the past few years. Emerging evidence unveils the crucial roles of immunometabolism in inflammatory response and ALI. During ALI, both macrophages and lymphocytes undergo robust metabolic reprogramming and discrete epigenetic changes after activated. Apart from providing ATP and biosynthetic precursors, these metabolic cellular reactions and processes in lung also regulate inflammation and immunity.In fact, metabolic reprogramming involving glucose metabolism and fatty acidoxidation (FAO) acts as a double-edged sword in inflammatory response, which not only drives inflammasome activation but also elicits anti-inflammatory response. Additionally, the features and roles of metabolic reprogramming in different immune cells are not exactly the same. Here, we outline the evidence implicating how adverse factors shape immunometabolism in differentiation types of immune cells during ALI and summarize key proteins associated with energy expenditure and metabolic reprogramming. Finally, novel therapeutic targets in metabolic intermediates and enzymes together with current challenges in immunometabolism against ALI were discussed.
Intestinal IL-17-producing T helper (Th17) cells are dependent on adherent microbes in the gut for their development. However, how microbial adherence to intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) promotes Th17 cell differentiation remains enigmatic. Here, we found that Th17 cell-inducing gut bacteria generated an unfolded protein response (UPR) in IECs. Furthermore, subtilase cytotoxin expression or genetic removal of X-box binding protein 1 (Xbp1) in IECs caused a UPR and increased Th17 cells, even in antibiotic-treated or germ-free conditions. Mechanistically, UPR activation in IECs enhanced their production of both reactive oxygen species (ROS) and purine metabolites. Treating mice with N-acetyl-cysteine or allopurinol to reduce ROS production and xanthine, respectively, decreased Th17 cells that were associated with an elevated UPR. Th17-related genes also correlated with ER stress and the UPR in humans with inflammatory bowel disease. Overall, we identify a mechanism of intestinal Th17 cell differentiation that emerges from an IEC-associated UPR.
Although the activator protein-1 (AP-1) factor Batf is required for Th17 cell development, its mechanisms of action to underpin the Th17 program are incompletely understood. Here, we find that Batf ensures Th17 cell identity in part by restricting alternative gene programs through its actions to restrain IL-2 expression and IL-2-induced Stat5 activation. This, in turn, limits Stat5-dependent recruitment of Ets1-Runx1 factors to Th1- and Treg-cell-specific gene loci. Thus, in addition to pioneering regulatory elements in Th17-specific loci, Batf acts indirectly to inhibit the assembly of a Stat5-Ets1-Runx1 complex that enhances the transcription of Th1- and Treg-cell-specific genes. These findings unveil an important role for Stat5-Ets1-Runx1 interactions in transcriptional networks that define alternate T cell fates and indicate that Batf plays an indispensable role in both inducing and maintaining the Th17 program through its actions to regulate the competing actions of Stat5-assembled enhanceosomes that promote Th1- and Treg-cell developmental programs.
Here, we report on a heterozygous interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) missense variant identified in three patients from a multigeneration family with hypogammaglobulinemia. Patients' low blood plasmablast/plasma cell and naïve CD4 and CD8 T cell counts contrasted with high terminal effector CD4 and CD8 T cell counts. Expression of the mutant IRF4 protein in control lymphoblastoid B cell lines reduced the expression of BLIMP-1 and XBP1 (key transcription factors in plasma cell differentiation). In B cell lines, the mutant IRF4 protein as wildtype was found to bind to known IRF4 binding motifs. The mutant IRF4 failed to efficiently regulate the transcriptional activity of interferon-stimulated response elements (ISREs). Rapid immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry of endogenous proteins indicated that the mutant and wildtype IRF4 proteins differed with regard to their respective sets of binding partners. Our findings highlight a novel mechanism for autosomal-dominant primary immunodeficiency through altered protein binding by mutant IRF4 at ISRE, leading to defective plasma cell differentiation.
Chickens have been used as a valuable and traditional model for studies on basic immunology. B lymphocytes were first identified in the bursa of Fabricius (BF) of broilers. The microbiota is important for immune system development and function. However, the effect of the microbiota on mediating B cell development and its regulatory mechanism is poorly elucidated. Here, we show that the gut microbiota is associated with the development of bursal B cells in young chickens. Changing patterns of both the alpha diversity and the expression of the B cell marker Bu-1α in the gut microbiota were related to the ages of chickens at different growth phases. Further correlation analysis revealed the marked correlation between the relative abundances of Intestinimonas, Bilophila, Parasutterella, Bacteroides, Helicobacter, Campylobacter, and Mucispirillum and the expression of Bu-1α. In antibiotic-treated chickens, BF and B cell development had aberrations as the relative abundance of the microbiota in early life decreased. These findings were consistent with Spearman's correlation results. Single-cell transcriptome analysis indicated that the heterogeneity in the cellular composition and developmental trajectory of bursal B cells from antibiotic-treated chickens was large. We found a novel subpopulation of unnamed B cells and identified Taf1 as a new pivotal regulator of B cell lineage differentiation. Therefore, we provide novel insights into the regulatory role of the gut microbiota in B cell development in early life and the maturation of host humoral immunity. IMPORTANCE In this study, we used young broilers to investigate the relationship between their gut microbiota and bursal B cell development. We characterized the important variables, microbes, B cells, and immunoglobulins during the posthatch development of birds. We also identified several candidate taxa in the cecal contents associated with B cells. Our study provides a rich resource and cell-cell cross talk model supporting B cell differentiation from the bursa in vitro at single-cell resolution. Furthermore, we determined a new pivotal regulator (Taf1) of B cell differentiation. We believe that our study makes a significant contribution to the literature because our findings may elucidate the role of the gut microbiota in B cell differentiation. This study also serves as a basis for developing new strategies that modulate B cell differentiation to prevent diseases.
BACKGROUND: Molecules related to glucocerebrosidase (GCase) are potential biomarkers for development of compounds targeting GBA1-associated Parkinson's disease (GBA-PD).OBJECTIVES: Assessing variability of various glycosphingolipids (GSLs) in plasma, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) across GBA-PD, idiopathic PD (iPD), and healthy volunteers (HVs).METHODS: Data from five studies were combined. Variability was assessed of glucosylceramide (various isoforms), lactosylceramide (various isoforms), glucosylsphingosine, galactosylsphingosine, GCase activity (using fluorescent 4-methylumbeliferryl-β-glucoside), and GCase protein (using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) in plasma, PBMCs, and CSF if available, in GBA-PD, iPD, and HVs. GSLs in leukocyte subtypes were compared in HVs. Principal component analysis was used to explore global patterns in GSLs, clinical characteristics (Movement Disorder Society - Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale Part 3 [MDS-UPDRS-3], Mini-Mental State Examination [MMSE], GBA1 mutation type), and participant status (GBA-PD, iPD, HVs).RESULTS: Within-subject between-day variability ranged from 5.8% to 44.5% and was generally lower in plasma than in PBMCs. Extracellular glucosylceramide levels (plasma) were slightly higher in GBA-PD compared with both iPD and HVs, while intracellular levels were comparable. GSLs in the different matrices (plasma, PBMCs, CSF) did not correlate. Both lactosylceramide and glucosylsphingosine were more abundant in granulocytes compared with monocytes and lymphocytes. Absolute levels of GSL isoforms differed greatly. GBA1 mutation types could not be differentiated based on GSL data.CONCLUSIONS: Glucosylceramide can stably be measured over days in both plasma and PBMCs and may be used as a biomarker in clinical trials targeting GBA-PD. Glucosylsphingosine and lactosylceramide are stable in plasma but are strongly affected by leukocyte subtypes in PBMCs. GBA-PD could be differentiated from iPD and HVs, primarily based on glucosylceramide levels in plasma. © 2023 The Authors. Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
T cells are the main force of anti-infection and antitumor and are also involved in autoimmune diseases. During the development of these diseases, T cells need to rapidly produce large amounts of energy to satisfy their activation, proliferation, and differentiation. In this review, we introduced lactate dehydrogenase A(LDHA), predominantly involved in glycolysis, which provides energy for T cells and plays a dual role in disease by mediating lactate production, non-classical enzyme activity, and oxidative stress. Mechanistically, the signaling molecule can interact with the LDHA promoter or regulate LDHA activity through post-translational modifications. These latest findings suggest that modulation of LDHA may have considerable therapeutic effects in diseases where T-cell activation is an important pathogenesis.
OBJECTIVE: Long intergenic noncoding RNA 00632 (LINC00632) regulates nasal inflammation and CD4+ T cell differentiation into T helper (Th) 2 cells in allergic rhinitis (AR). This study aimed to explore the relationship between LINC00632 and Th1/Th2 balance, and the clinical value of LINC00632 in AR patients.METHODS: In total, 120 AR patients, 20 non-atopic obstructive snoring patients as disease controls (DCs), and 20 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited. Their LINC00632 expressions in peripheral blood mononuclear cells were detected by RT-qPCR.RESULTS: LINC00632 expression was declined in AR patients compared with DCs and HCs (both P ˂ 0.001). Moreover, LINC00632 could distinguish AR patients from DCs with an area under curve (AUC) of 0.795 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.701-0.889), and from HCs with an AUC of 0.895 (95%CI: 0.831-0.960). LINC00632 was positively related to Th1 cells (P = 0.037) and Th1/Th2 axis (P ˂ 0.001) in AR patients. In addition, LINC00632 was inversely associated with Th2 cells (P ˂ 0.001) and interleukin (IL)-4 (P = 0.010) in AR patients. Besides, LINC00632 was negatively related to rhinorrhea score (P = 0.019), itching score (P = 0.008), sneezing score (P = 0.004), and total nasal symptom score (TNSS) (P ˂ 0.001), but no correlation between LINC00632 and congestion score was observed (P = 0.093). During treatment, LINC00632 was elevated, while TNSS score was reduced (both P ˂ 0.001). Furthermore, LINC00632 increment was associated with the reduction of TNSS score during the therapy (P = 0.005).CONCLUSION: LINC00632 relates to milder Th1/Th2 imbalance, attenuated nasal symptoms, and better response during 4-week therapy in AR patients.
OBJECTIVE: To identify the independent risk factors of gastric cancer (GC) lymph node metastasis and to determine whether the preoperative neutrophil and lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and the platelet and lymphocyte ratio (PLR) can be used as the indicators of gastric cancer lymph node metastasis.METHODS: The pathological data of 221 patients with gastric cancer were retrospectively analyzed, and the risk factors of lymph node metastasis were evaluated. The relationship between preoperative NLR and PLR and the clinical pathology of patients were analyzed, and the effect of these two indexes on lymph node metastasis was predicted through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve.RESULTS: Lymph node metastasis correlated with tumor diameter, depth of invasion, Tumor-Node-Metastasis (TNM) stage, preoperative NLR and preoperative PLR (all P<0.05), but not with gender, age and tumor location (all P>0.05). According to the result of multivariate analysis, the degree of differentiation, depth of invasion, TNM staging and NLR were independent risk factors for GC lymph node metastasis.CONCLUSION: The sensitivity and specificity of PLR, tumor staging and tumor size are lower than NLR. Preoperative NLR can be used as an independent risk factor for the prediction of lymph node metastasis, and one of the effective indicators for predicting the prognosis of patients. Preoperative NLR may be an effective auxiliary tool to assess lymph nodes in GC patients.
The association of dysregulated metabolism in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) pathogenesis has prompted investigations into metabolic rewiring and the involvement of mitochondrial metabolism as a driver of disease through NLRP3 inflammasome activation, disruption of mitochondrial DNA maintenance, and pro-inflammatory cytokine release. The use of Agilent Seahorse Technology to gain functional in situ metabolic insights of selected cell types from SLE patients has identified key parameters that are dysregulated during disease. Mitochondrial functional assessments specifically can detect dysfunction through oxygen consumption rate (OCR), spare respiratory capacity, and maximal respiration measurements, which, when coupled with disease activity scores could show potential as markers of disease activity. CD4+ and CD8 + T cells have been assessed in this way and show that oxygen consumption rate, spare respiratory capacity, and maximal respiration are blunted in CD8 + T cells, with results not being as clear cut in CD4 + T cells. Additionally, glutamine, processed by mitochondrial substrate level phosphorylation is emerging as a key role player in the expansion and differentiation of Th1, Th17, ϒδ T cells, and plasmablasts. The role that circulating leukocytes play in acting as bioenergetic biomarkers of diseases such as diabetes suggests that this may also be a tool to detect preclinical SLE. Therefore, the metabolic characterization of immune cell subsets and the collection of metabolic data during interventions is also essential. The delineation of the metabolic tuning of immune cells in this way could lead to novel strategies in treating metabolically demanding processes characteristic of autoimmune diseases such as SLE.
BACKGROUND: Cellular immunotherapies for cancer represent a means by which a patient's immune system can be augmented with high numbers of tumor-specific T cells. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) therapy involves genetic engineering to 'redirect' peripheral T cells to tumor targets, showing remarkable potency in blood cancers. However, due to several resistance mechanisms, CAR-T cell therapies remain ineffective in solid tumors. We and others have shown the tumor microenvironment harbors a distinct metabolic landscape that produces a barrier to immune cell function. Further, altered differentiation of T cells within tumors induces defects in mitochondrial biogenesis, resulting in severe cell-intrinsic metabolic deficiencies. While we and others have shown murine T cell receptor (TCR)-transgenic cells can be improved through enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis, we sought to determine whether human CAR-T cells could be enabled through a metabolic reprogramming approach.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Anti-EGFR CAR-T cells were infused in NSG mice which bore A549 tumors. The tumor infiltrating lymphocytes were analyzed for exhaustion and metabolic deficiencies. Lentiviruses carrying PPAR-gamma coactivator 1α (PGC-1α), PGC-1αS571A and NT-PGC-1α constructs were used to co-transduce T cells with anti-EGFR CAR lentiviruses. We performed metabolic analysis via flow cytometry and Seahorse analysis in vitro as well as RNA sequencing. Finally, we treated therapeutically A549-carrying NSG mice with either PGC-1α or NT-PGC-1α anti-EGFR CAR-T cells. We also analyzed the differences in the tumor-infiltrating CAR-T cells when PGC-1α is co-expressed.RESULTS: Here, in this study, we show that an inhibition resistant, engineered version of PGC-1α, can metabolically reprogram human CAR-T cells. Transcriptomic profiling of PGC-1α-transduced CAR-T cells showed this approach effectively induced mitochondrial biogenesis, but also upregulated programs associated with effector functions. Treatment of immunodeficient animals bearing human solid tumors with these cells resulted in substantially improved in vivo efficacy. In contrast, a truncated version of PGC-1α, NT-PGC-1α, did not improve the in vivo outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: Our data further support a role for metabolic reprogramming in immunomodulatory treatments and highlight the utility of genes like PGC-1α as attractive candidates to include in cargo along with chimeric receptors or TCRs for cell therapy of solid tumors.
Increased exposure to manmade chemicals may be linked to an increase in immune-related diseases in humans and immune system dysfunction in wildlife. Phthalates are a group of endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) suspected to influence the immune system. The aim of this study was to characterize the persistent effects on leukocytes in the blood and spleen, as well as plasma cytokine and growth factor levels, one week after the end of five weeks of oral treatment with dibutyl phthalate (DBP; 10 or 100 mg/kg/d) in adult male mice. Flow cytometry analysis of the blood revealed that DBP exposure decreased the total leukocyte count, classical monocyte and T helper (Th) populations, whereas it increased the non-classical monocyte population compared to the vehicle control (corn oil). Immunofluorescence analysis of the spleen showed increased CD11b+Ly6G+ (marker of polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells; PMN-MDSCs), and CD43+staining (marker of non-classical monocytes), whereas CD3+ (marker of total T cells) and CD4+ (marker of Th cells) staining decreased. To investigate the mechanisms of action, levels of plasma cytokines and chemokines were measured using multiplexed immunoassays and other key factors were analyzed using western blotting. The observed increase in M-CSF levels and the activation of STAT3 may promote PMN-MDSC expansion and activity. Increased ARG1, NOX2 (gp91phox), and protein nitrotyrosine levels, as well as GCN2 and phosphor-eIRFα, suggest that oxidative stress and lymphocyte arrest drive the lymphocyte suppression caused by PMN-MDSCs. The plasma levels of IL-21 (promotes the differentiation of Th cells) and MCP-1 (regulates migration and infiltration of monocytes/macrophages) also decreased. These findings show that adult DBP exposure can cause persistent immunosuppressive effects, which may increase susceptibility to infections, cancers, and immune diseases, and decrease vaccine efficacy.
BACKGROUND: The generation of antigen-specific memory B cells is crucial to the long-term effectiveness of vaccines. When the protective antibodies circulating in the blood wane, memory B cells (MBC) can be rapidly reactivated and differentiated into antibody-secreting cells during a new infection. Such MBC responses are considered to be key in providing long-term protection after infection or vaccination. Here, we describe the optimization and qualification of a FluoroSpot assay to measure MBCs directed against the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein in the peripheral blood, for use in COVID-19 vaccine trials.METHODS: We developed a FluoroSpot assay enabling simultaneous enumeration of B cells secreting IgA or IgG spike-specific antibodies after polyclonal stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) with interleukin-2 and the toll-like receptor agonist R848 for 5 days. The antigen coating was optimized using a capture antibody directed against the spike subunit-2 glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2 to immobilize recombinant trimeric spike protein onto the membrane.RESULTS: Compared to a direct spike protein coating, the addition of a capture antibody increased the number and the quality of detected spots for both spike-specific IgA and IgG secreting cells in PBMCs from COVID-19 convalescents. The qualification showed good sensitivity of the dual-color IgA-IgG FluoroSpot assay, with lower limits of quantitation of 18 background-subtracted (BS) antibody-secreting cells (ASCs)/well for spike-specific IgA and IgG responses. Linearity was demonstrated at values ranging from 18 to 73 and from 18 to 607 BS ASCs/well for spike-specific IgA and IgG, respectively, as was precision, with intermediate precision (percentage geometric coefficients of variation) of 12% and 26% for the proportion of spike-specific IgA and IgG MBCs (ratio specific/total IgA or Ig). The assay was specific, since no spike-specific MBCs were detected in PBMCs from pre-pandemic samples; the results were below the limit of detection of 17 BS ASCs/well.CONCLUSIONS: These results show that the dual-color IgA-IgG FluoroSpot provides a sensitive, specific, linear, and precise tool to detect spike-specific MBC responses. This MBC FluoroSpot assay is a method of choice for monitoring spike-specific IgA and IgG MBC responses induced by COVID-19 candidate vaccines in clinical trials.
Th cells, which orchestrate immune responses to various pathogens, differentiate from naïve CD4 T cells into several subsets that stimulate and regulate immune responses against various types of pathogens, as well as a variety of immune-related diseases. Decades of research have revealed that the fate decision processes are controlled by cytokines, cytokine receptor signaling, and master transcription factors that drive the differentiation programs. Since the Th1 and Th2 paradigm was proposed, many subsets have been added to the list. In this review, I will summarize these events, including the fate decision processes, subset functions, transcriptional regulation, metabolic regulation, and plasticity and heterogeneity. I will also introduce current topics of interest.
Th cell lineage determination and functional specialization are tightly linked to the activation of lineage-determining transcription factors (TFs) that bind cis-regulatory elements. These lineage-determining TFs act in concert with multiple layers of transcriptional regulators to alter the epigenetic landscape, including DNA methylation, histone modification and three-dimensional chromosome architecture, in order to facilitate the specific Th gene expression programs that allow for phenotypic diversification. Accumulating evidence indicates that Th cell differentiation is not as rigid as classically held; rather, extensive phenotypic plasticity is an inherent feature of T cell lineages. Recent studies have begun to uncover the epigenetic programs that mechanistically govern T cell subset specification and immunological memory. Advances in next generation sequencing technologies have allowed global transcriptomic and epigenomic interrogation of CD4+ Th cells that extends previous findings focusing on individual loci. In this review, we provide an overview of recent genome-wide insights into the transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of CD4+ T cell-mediated adaptive immunity and discuss the implications for disease as well as immunotherapies.
Memory T cells play an essential role in protecting against infectious diseases and cancer and contribute to autoimmunity and transplant rejection. Understanding how they are generated and maintained in the context of infection or vaccination holds promise to improve current immune-based therapies. At the beginning of any immune response, naïve T cells are activated and differentiate into cells with effector function capabilities. In the context of infection, most of these cells die once the pathogenic antigen has been cleared. Only a few of them persist and differentiate into memory T cells. These memory T cells are essential to host immunity because they are long-lived and can perform effector functions immediately upon re-infection. How a cell becomes a memory T cell and continues being one for months and even years past the initial infection is still not fully understood. Recent reviews have thoroughly discussed the transcriptional, epigenomic, and metabolic mechanisms that govern T cell memory differentiation. Yet much less is known of how signaling pathways that are common circuitries of multiple environmental signals regulate T cell outcome and, precisely, T cell memory. The function of the NFκB signaling system is perhaps best understood in innate cells. Recent findings suggest that NFκB signaling plays an essential and unique role in generating and maintaining CD8 T cell memory. This review aims to summarize these findings and discuss the remaining questions in the field.
Bone marrow Treg cells (BM Tregs) orchestrate stem cell niches crucial for hematopoiesis. Yet little is known about the molecular mechanisms governing BM Treg homeostasis and function. Here we report that the transcription factor BATF maintains homeostasis and functionality of BM Tregs to facilitate homeostatic regulation of hematopoiesis and B cell development. Treg-specific ablation of BATF profoundly compromised proportions of BM Tregs associated with reduced expression of Treg effector molecules, including CD44, ICOS, KLRG1, and TIGIT. Moreover, BATF deficiency in Tregs led to increased numbers of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), multipotent progenitors (MPPs), and granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (GMPs), while reducing the functionality of myeloid progenitors and the generation of common lymphoid progenitors. Furthermore, Tregs lacking BATF failed to support the development of B cells in the BM. Mechanistically, BATF mediated IL-7 signaling to promote expression of effector molecules on BM Tregs and their homeostasis. Our studies reveal a previously unappreciated role for BATF in sustaining BM Treg homeostasis and function to ensure hematopoiesis.
The dog is valued as a companion animal and increasingly recognized as a model for human disorders. Given the importance of T cells in health and disease, comprehensive knowledge of canine T cells can contribute to our understanding of pathogenesis mechanisms and inform the development of new treatment strategies. However, the diversity of canine T cells is still poorly understood mainly due to the lack of species-reactive antibodies for use in flow cytometry. The aim of this study was to generate a detailed atlas of peripheral blood TCRαβ+ T cells of healthy dogs using single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNAseq) combined with immune repertoire sequencing. A total of 22 TCRαβ+ T cell clusters were identified, which were classified into three major groups: CD4-dominant (11 clusters), CD8A-dominant (8 clusters), and CD4/CD8A-mixed (3 clusters). Based on differential gene expression, distinct differentiation states (naïve, effector, memory, exhausted) and lineages (e.g. CD4 T helper and regulatory T cells) could be distinguished. Importantly, several T cell populations were identified, which have not been described in dogs before. Of particular note, our data provide first evidence for the existence of canine mucosa-associated invariant T cell (MAIT)-like cells, representing one of three newly identified FCER1G+ innate-like CD8A+ T cell populations in the peripheral blood of healthy dogs. In conclusion, using scRNAseq combined with immune repertoire sequencing we were able to resolve canine TCRαβ+ T cell populations at unprecedented resolution. The peripheral blood TCRαβ+ T cell atlas of healthy dogs generated here represents an important reference data set for future studies and is of relevance for identifying new targets for T cell-specific therapies.
BACKGROUND: Tuberculoma is the most common type of surgically removed benign solid solitary pulmonary nodule (SPN) and can lead to a high risk of misdiagnoses for clinicians. This study aimed to discuss the value of the immunocyte count combined with computed tomography (CT) features in distinguishing pulmonary tuberculoma from malignancy among non-calcified solid SPNs.METHODS: Forty-eight patients with pulmonary tuberculoma and 52 patients with lung cancer were retrospectively included in our study. Univariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to screen the independent predictors. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to investigate the validity of the predictive model.RESULTS: The univariate and multivariate analyses revealed that a coarse margin, vacuole, lobulation, pleural indentation, cluster of differentiation (CD)3+ T-lymphocyte count, and CD4+ T-lymphocyte count were independent predictors for distinguishing pulmonary tuberculoma from malignancy. The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and the area under the ROC curve of the model comprising the CD3+ T-lymphocyte count were 79.2%, 75%, 74.5%, and 0.845 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.759-0.910], respectively, and those of the model involving the CD4+ T-lymphocyte count were 77.1%, 78.8%, 77.1%, and 0.857 (95% CI, 0.773-0.919), respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Immunocyte count combined with CT features is efficient in distinguishing pulmonary tuberculoma from malignancy among non-calcified solid SPNs and has applicable clinical value.
DOI: 10.1101/2023.02.26.530139PMCID: PMC10002700PMID: 36909629
DOI: 10.1101/2023.03.01.530608PMCID: PMC10002750PMID: 36909522
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a human herpes virus that latently infects B lymphocytes. When EBV is reactivated, host B cells differentiate into plasma cells and produce IgM-dominant antibodies as well as many progeny virions. The aims of the present study were to confirm the IgM dominance of thyrotropin-receptor antibodies (TRAbs) produced by EBV reactivation and investigate the roles of TRAb-IgM in Graves' disease. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) containing TRAb-producing cells were stimulated for EBV reactivation, and TRAb-IgM and TRAb-IgG were measured by ELISA. TRAb-IgM were purified and TSH-binding inhibitory activities were assessed using a radio-receptor assay. Porcine thyroid follicular epithelial cells were cultured with TRAb-IgM and/or complements to measure the intracellular levels of cAMP and the amount of LDH released. TRAb-IgM/TRAb-IgG (the MG ratio) was examined in sequential serum samples of Graves' disease and compared among groups of thyroid function. The results obtained showed that IgM-dominant TRAb production was induced by EBV reactivation. TRAb-IgM did not inhibit TSH binding to TSH receptors and did not transduce hormone-producing signals. However, it destroyed thyroid follicular epithelial cells with complements. The MG ratio was significantly higher in samples of hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism than in those with normal function or in healthy controls. A close relationship was observed between TRAb-IgM produced by EBV reactivation and the development and exacerbation of Graves' disease. The present results provide novel insights for the development of prophylaxis and therapeutics for Graves' disease.
Reinvigorating the function of exhausted CD8+ T cells during chronic viral infection and cancer is a major goal of current immunotherapy regimens. Here, we discuss recent advances in our understanding of exhausted CD8+ T cell heterogeneity as well as the potential differentiation trajectories that exhausted T cells follow during chronic infection and/or cancer. We highlight surmounting evidence suggesting that some T cell clones are divergent in nature and can develop into either terminally differentiated effector or exhausted CD8+ T cells. Lastly, we consider the potential therapeutic implications of such a bifurcation model of CD8+ T cell differentiation, including the intriguing hypothesis that redirecting progenitor CD8+ T cell differentiation along an effector pathway may serve as a novel approach to mitigate T cell exhaustion.
The gut microbiota colonizing the gastrointestinal tract, is an indispensable "invisible organ" that affects multiple aspects of human health. The gut microbial community has been assumed to be an important stimulus to the immune homeostasis and development, and increasing data support the role of the gut microbiota-immunity axis in autoimmune diseases. Host's immune system requires recognition tools to communicate with the gut microbial evolutionary partners. Among these microbial perceptions, T cells enable the widest spectrum of gut microbial recognition resolution. Specific gut microbiota direct the induction and differentiation of Th17 cells in intestine. However, the detailed links between the gut microbiota and Th17 cells have not been well established. In this review, we describe the generation and characterization of Th17 cells. Notably, we discuss the induction and differentiation of Th17 cells by the gut microbiota and their metabolites, as well as recent advances in our understanding of interactions between Th17 cells and the gut microbiota in human diseases. In addition, we provide the emerging evidences in support of interventions targeting the gut microbes/Th17 cells in human diseases.
It is widely believed that hematopoiesis after birth is established by hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in the bone marrow and that HSC-independent hematopoiesis is limited only to primitive erythro-myeloid cells and tissue-resident innate immune cells arising in the embryo. Here, surprisingly, we find that significant percentages of lymphocytes are not derived from HSCs, even in 1-year-old mice. Instead, multiple waves of hematopoiesis occur from embryonic day 7.5 (E7.5) to E11.5 endothelial cells, which simultaneously produce HSCs and lymphoid progenitors that constitute many layers of adaptive T and B lymphocytes in adult mice. Additionally, HSC lineage tracing reveals that the contribution of fetal liver HSCs to peritoneal B-1a cells is minimal and that the majority of B-1a cells are HSC independent. Our discovery of extensive HSC-independent lymphocytes in adult mice attests to the complex blood developmental dynamics spanning the embryo-to-adult transition and challenges the paradigm of HSCs exclusively underpinning the postnatal immune system.
Generation of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) will enable advances in cancer immunotherapy. Understanding how CARs affect T cell differentiation from PSCs is important for this effort. The recently described artificial thymic organoid (ATO) system supports in vitro differentiation of PSCs to T cells. Unexpectedly, PSCs transduced with a CD19-targeted CAR resulted in diversion of T cell differentiation to the innate lymphoid cell 2 (ILC2) lineage in ATOs. T cells and ILC2s are closely related lymphoid lineages with shared developmental and transcriptional programs. Mechanistically, we show that antigen-independent CAR signaling during lymphoid development enriched for ILC2-primed precursors at the expense of T cell precursors. We applied this understanding to modulate CAR signaling strength through expression level, structure, and presentation of cognate antigen to demonstrate that the T cell-versus-ILC lineage decision can be rationally controlled in either direction, providing a framework for achieving CAR-T cell development from PSCs.
As a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily, the B-cell activating factor (BAFF) plays a crucial role in B-cell survival and differentiation. Overexpression of this protein has been closely linked to autoimmune disorders and some B-cell malignancies. Using monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against the BAFF soluble domain appears to be a complementary treatment for some of these diseases. This study aimed to produce and develop a specific Nanobody (Nb), a variable camelid antibody domain, against the soluble domain of BAFF protein. After camel immunization with recombinant protein and preparing cDNA from total RNAs separated from camel lymphocytes, an Nb library was developed. Individual colonies capable of binding selectively to rBAFF were obtained by periplasmic-ELISA, sequenced, and expressed in a bacterial expression system. The specificity and affinity of selected Nb were determined and its target identification and functionality were evaluated using flow cytometry.
T cell exhaustion is a main obstacle against effective cancer immunotherapy. Exhausted T cells include a subpopulation that maintains proliferative capacity, referred to as precursor exhausted T cells (TPEX). While functionally distinct and important for antitumor immunity, TPEX possess some overlapping phenotypic features with the other T-cell subsets within the heterogeneous tumor-infiltrating T-lymphocytes (TIL). Here we explore surface marker profiles unique to TPEX using the tumor models treated by chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered T cells. We find that CD83 is predominantly expressed in the CCR7+PD1+ intratumoral CAR-T cells compared with the CCR7-PD1+ (terminally differentiated) and CAR-negative (bystander) T cells. The CD83+CCR7+ CAR-T cells exhibit superior antigen-induced proliferation and IL-2 production compared with the CD83- T cells. Moreover, we confirm selective expression of CD83 in the CCR7+PD1+ T-cell population in primary TIL samples. Our findings identify CD83 as a marker to discriminate TPEX from terminally exhausted and bystander TIL.
Human B cells can be divided into four main subsets based on differential expression of immunoglobulin (Ig)D and CD27. IgD-CD27- double negative (DN) B cells make up a heterogeneous group of B cells that have first been described in relation to aging and systemic lupus erythematosus but have been mostly disregarded in B cell research. Over the last few years, DN B cells have gained a lot of interest because of their involvement in autoimmune and infectious diseases. DN B cells can be divided into different subsets that originate via different developmental processes and have different functional properties. Further research into the origin and function of different DN subsets is needed to better understand the role of these B cells in normal immune responses and how they could be targeted in specific pathologies. In this review, we give an overview of both phenotypic and functional properties of DN B cells and provide insight into the currently proposed origins of DN B cells. Moreover, their involvement in normal aging and different pathologies is discussed.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR) as a laboratory biomarker in radioactive iodine-refractory (RAIR) locally advanced and/or metastatic differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) and determine its correlation with overall survival (OS).METHODS: We retrospectively included 172 patients with locally advanced and/or metastatic RAIR DTC admitted between 1993 and 2021 at INCA. Age at diagnosis, histology, presence of distant metastasis (DM), DM site, neutrophil-to- lymphocyte ratio (NLR), imaging studies such as PET/CT results, progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) data were analyzed. NLR was calculated at the time of locally advanced and/or metastatic disease diagnosis and the cutoff value was 3. Survival curves were established using the Kaplan-Meier method. The confidence interval is 95%, and a p-value of less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant RESULTS: Out of 172 patients, 106 were locally advanced, and 150 presented DM at some point during follow-up. Regarding NLR data, 35 had NLR over 3 and 137 had NLR under 3. Higher NLR at was associated with shorter OS (6 vs. 10; p = 0.05) and with highest SUV on FDG PET-CT (15.9 vs. 7.7, p = 0.013). We found no association between higher NLR and age at diagnosis, DM or final status.CONCLUSION: NLR higher than 3 at the time of locally advanced and/or metastatic disease diagnosis is an independent fator for shorter OS in RAIR DTC patients. Noteworthy higher NLR was also associated with highest SUV on FDG PET-CT in this population.
Mouse dendritic cells (DCs) are routinely generated based on cells isolated form the bone marrow (BM) and cultured in the presence of growth factors that support DC development, such as FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 ligand (FLT3L) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) (Guo et al., J Immunol Methods 432:24-29, 2016). In response to these growth factors, DC progenitors expand and differentiate, while other cell types die during the in vitro culture period, ultimately leading to relatively homogenous DC populations. An alternative method, which is discussed in detail in this chapter, relies on conditional immortalization of progenitor cells with DC potential in vitro using an estrogen-regulated form of Hoxb8 (ERHBD-Hoxb8). Such progenitors are established by retroviral transduction of largely unseparated BM cells with a retroviral vector expressing ERHBD-Hoxb8. Treatment of ERHBD-Hoxb8-expressing progenitors with estrogen results in Hoxb8 activation, which blocks cell differentiation and allows for expansion of homogenous progenitor cell populations in the presence of FLT3L. These cells, referred to as Hoxb8-FL cells, retain lineage potential for lymphocyte and myeloid lineages, including the DC lineage. Upon removal of estrogen (inactivation of Hoxb8), Hoxb8-FL cells differentiate into highly homogenous DC populations in the presence of GM-CSF or FLT3L akin to their endogenous counterparts. Given their unlimited proliferative capacity and amenability for genetic manipulation, for example, by CRISPR/Cas9, these cells provide a large number of options to investigate DC biology. Here, I am describing the method to establish Hoxb8-FL cells from mouse BM, as well as procedures for DC generation and gene deletion using lentivirally delivered CRISPR/Cas9.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are mononuclear phagocytes of hematopoietic origin residing in lymphoid and nonlymphoid tissues. DCs are often referred as the sentinels of the immune system as they can sense pathogens and danger signals. Upon activation, DCs migrate to the draining lymph nodes and present antigens to naïve T cells to trigger adaptive immunity. Hematopoietic progenitors for DCs reside in the adult bone marrow (BM). Therefore, BM cell culture systems have been developed to generate large amounts of primary DCs in vitro conveniently enabling to analyze their developmental and functional features. Here, we review various protocols enabling to generate DCs in vitro from murine BM cells and discuss the cellular heterogeneity of each culture system.
Particulate matter (PM) is a mixture comprising both organic and inorganic particles, both of which are hazardous to health. The inhalation of airborne PM with a diameter of ≤2.5 μm (PM2.5) can cause considerable lung damage. Cornuside (CN), a natural bisiridoid glucoside derived from the fruit of Cornus officinalis Sieb, exerts protective properties against tissue damage via controlling the immunological response and reducing inflammation. However, information regarding the therapeutic potential of CN in patients with PM2.5-induced lung injury is limited. Thus, herein, we examined the protective properties of CN against PM2.5-induced lung damage. Mice were categorized into eight groups (n = 10): a mock control group, a CN control group (0.8 mg/kg mouse body weight), four PM2.5+CN groups (0.2, 0.4, 0.6, and 0.8 mg/kg mouse body weight), and a PM2.5+CN group (0.2, 0.4, 0.6, and 0.8 mg/kg mouse body weight). The mice were administered with CN 30 min following intratracheal tail vein injection of PM2.5. In mice exposed to PM2.5, different parameters including changes in lung tissue wet/dry (W/D) lung weight ratio, total protein/total cell ratio, lymphocyte counts, inflammatory cytokine levels in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), vascular permeability, and histology were examined. Our findings revealed that CN reduced lung damage, the W/D weight ratio, and hyperpermeability caused by PM2.5. Moreover, CN reduced the plasma levels of inflammatory cytokines produced because of PM2.5 exposure, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and nitric oxide, as well as the total protein concentration in the BALF, and successfully attenuated PM2.5-associated lymphocytosis. In addition, CN substantially reduced the expression levels of Toll-like receptors 4 (TLR4), MyD88, and autophagy-related proteins LC3 II and Beclin 1, and increased protein phosphorylation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Thus, the anti-inflammatory property of CN renders it a potential therapeutic agent for treating PM2.5-induced lung injury by controlling the TLR4-MyD88 and mTOR-autophagy pathways.
Salmonella negatively impacts the poultry industry and threatens animals' and humans' health. The gastrointestinal microbiota and its metabolites can modulate the host's physiology and immune system. Recent research demonstrated the role of commensal bacteria and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in developing resistance to Salmonella infection and colonization. However, the complex interactions among chicken, Salmonella, host-microbiome, and microbial metabolites remain unelucidated. Therefore, this study aimed to explore these complex interactions by identifying the driver and hub genes highly correlated with factors that confer resistance to Salmonella. Differential gene expression (DEGs) and dynamic developmental genes (DDGs) analyses and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed using transcriptome data from the cecum of Salmonella Enteritidis-infected chicken at 7 and 21 days after infection. Furthermore, we identified the driver and hub genes associated with important traits such as the heterophil/lymphocyte (H/L) ratio, body weight post-infection, bacterial load, propionate and valerate cecal contents, and Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Proteobacteria cecal relative abundance. Among the multiple genes detected in this study, EXFABP, S100A9/12, CEMIP, FKBP5, MAVS, FAM168B, HESX1, EMC6, and others were found as potential candidate gene and transcript (co-) factors for resistance to Salmonella infection. In addition, we found that the PPAR and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) metabolic pathways were also involved in the host's immune response/defense against Salmonella colonization at the earlier and later stage post-infection, respectively. This study provides a valuable resource of transcriptome profiles from chicken cecum at the earlier and later stage post-infection and mechanistic understanding of the complex interactions among chicken, Salmonella, host-microbiome, and associated metabolites.
T lymphocytes are key players in adaptive immune responses through the recognition of peptide antigens through the T Cell Receptor (TCR). After TCR engagement, a signaling cascade is activated, leading to T cell activation, proliferation, and differentiation into effector cells. Delicate control of activation signals coupled to the TCR is needed to avoid uncontrolled immune responses involving T cells. It has been previously shown that mice deficient in the expression of the adaptor NTAL (Non-T cell activation linker), a molecule structurally and evolutionarily related to the transmembrane adaptor LAT (Linker for the Activation of T cells), develop an autoimmune syndrome characterized by the presence of autoantibodies and enlarged spleens. In the present work we intended to deepen investigation into the negative regulatory functions of the NTAL adaptor in T cells and its potential relationship with autoimmune disorders. For this purpose, in this work we used Jurkat cells as a T cell model, and we lentivirally transfected them to express the NTAL adaptor in order to analyze the effect on intracellular signals associated with the TCR. In addition, we analyzed the expression of NTAL in primary CD4+ T cells from healthy donors and Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) patients. Our results showed that NTAL expression in Jurkat cells decreased calcium fluxes and PLC-γ1 activation upon stimulation through the TCR complex. Moreover, we showed that NTAL was also expressed in activated human CD4+ T cells, and that the increase of its expression was reduced in CD4+ T cells from RA patients. Our results, together with previous reports, suggest a relevant role for the NTAL adaptor as a negative regulator of early intracellular TCR signaling, with a potential implication in RA.
It was shown that the spontaneous development of experimental encephalomyelitis (EAE) in C57BL/6 mice occurs due to changes in the profile of bone marrow stem cells differentiation. This leads to the appearance of lymphocytes producing antibodies-abzymes that hydrolyze DNA, myelin basic protein (MBP), and histones. The activity of abzymes in the hydrolysis of these auto-antigens slowly but constantly increases during the spontaneous development of EAE. Treatment of mice with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) leads to a sharp increase in the activity of these abzymes with their maximum at 20 days (acute phase) after immunization. In this work, we analyzed changes in the activity of IgG-abzymes hydrolyzing (pA)23, (pC)23, (pU)23, and six miRNAs (miR-9-5p, miR-219a-5p, miR-326, miR-155-5p, miR-21-3p, and miR-146a-3p) before and after mice immunization with MOG. Unlike abzymes hydrolyzing DNA, MBP, and histones, the spontaneous development of EAE leads not to an increase but to a permanent decrease of IgGs activity of hydrolysis of RNA-substrates. Treatment of mice with MOG resulted in a sharp but transient increase in the activity of antibodies by day 7 (onset of the disease), followed by a sharp decrease in activity 20-40 days after immunization. A significant difference in the production of abzymes against DNA, MBP, and histones before and after mice immunization with MOG with those against RNAs may be since the expression of many miRNAs decreased with age. This can lead to a decrease in the production of antibodies and abzymes that hydrolyze miRNAs with age mice.
T cells have the potential to maintain immunological memory and self-tolerance by recognizing antigens from pathogens or tumors. In pathological situations, failure to generate de novo T cells causes immunodeficiency resulting in acute infections and complications. Hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) transplantation constitutes a valuable option to restore proper immune function. However, delayed T cell reconstitution is observed compared to other lineages. To overcome this difficulty, we developed a new approach to identify populations with efficient lymphoid reconstitution properties. To this end, we use a DNA barcoding strategy based on the insertion into a cell chromosome of a lentivirus (LV) carrying a non-coding DNA fragment named barcode (BC). These will segregate through cell divisions and be present in cells' progeny. The remarkable characteristic of the method is that different cell types can be tracked simultaneously in the same mouse. Thus, we in vivo barcoded LMPP and CLP progenitors to test their ability to reconstitute the lymphoid lineage. Barcoded progenitors were co-grafted in immuno-compromised mice and their fate analyzed by evaluating the BC composition in transplanted mice. The results highlight the predominant role of LMPP progenitors for lymphoid generation and reveal valuable novel insights to be reconsidered in clinical transplantation assays.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease, which affects 2-4% of the population worldwide. T-cell derived factors such as Th17 and Th1 cytokines or cytokines such as IL-23, which favors Th17-expansion/differentiation, dominate in the disease. Therapies targeting these factors have been developed over the years. An autoimmune component is present, as autoreactive T-cells specific for keratins, the antimicrobial peptide LL37 and ADAMTSL5 have been described. Both autoreactive CD4 and CD8 T-cells exist, produce pathogenic cytokines, and correlate with disease activity. Along with the assumption that psoriasis is a T-cell-driven disease, Tregs have been studied extensively over the years, both in the skin and in circulation. This narrative review resumes the main findings about Tregs in psoriasis. We discuss how Tregs increase in psoriasis but are impaired in their regulatory/suppressive function. We debate the possibility that Tregs convert into T-effector cells under inflammatory conditions; for instance, they may turn into Th17-cells. We put particular emphasis on therapies that seem to counteract this conversion. We have enriched this review with an experimental section analyzing T-cells specific for the autoantigen LL37 in a healthy subject, suggesting that a shared specificity may exist between Tregs and autoreactive responder T-cells. This suggests that successful psoriasis treatments may, among other effects, restore Tregs numbers and functions.
Psoriasis vulgaris (PV) is an autoinflammatory dermatosis of unknown etiology. Current evidence suggests a pathogenic role of γδT cells, but the growing complexity of this population has made the offending subset difficult to pinpoint. The work on γδTCRint and γδTCRhi subsets, which express intermediate and high levels of γδTCR at their surface, respectively, is particularly scarce, leaving their inner workings in PV essentially unresolved. We have shown here that the γδTCRint/γδTCRhi cell composition and their transcriptom are related to the differential miRNA expression by performing a targeted miRNA and mRNA quantification (RT-qPCR) in multiplexed, flow-sorted γδ blood T cells from healthy controls (n = 14) and patients with PV (n = 13). A significant loss of miR-20a in bulk γδT cells (~fourfold decrease, PV vs. controls) largely mirrored increasing Vδ1-Vδ2- and γδintVδ1-Vδ2- cell densities in the bloodstream, culminating in a relative excess of γδintVδ1-Vδ2- cells for PV. Transcripts encoding DNA-binding factors (ZBTB16), cytokine receptors (IL18R1), and cell adhesion molecules (SELPLG) were depleted in the process, closely tracking miR-20a availability in bulk γδ T-cell RNA. Compared to controls, PV was also associated with enhanced miR-92b expression (~13-fold) in bulk γδT cells that lacked association with the γδT cell composition. The miR-29a and let-7c expressions remained unaltered in case-control comparisons. Overall, our data expand the current landscape of the peripheral γδT cell composition, underlining changes in its mRNA/miRNA transcriptional circuits that may inform PV pathogenesis.
The serine/threonine-protein kinase general control nonderepressible 2 (GCN2) is a well-known stress sensor that responds to amino acid starvation and other stresses, making it critical to the maintenance of cellular and organismal homeostasis. More than 20 years of research has revealed the molecular structure/complex, inducers/regulators, intracellular signaling pathways and bio-functions of GCN2 in various biological processes, across an organism's lifespan, and in many diseases. Accumulated studies have demonstrated that the GCN2 kinase is also closely involved in the immune system and in various immune-related diseases, such as GCN2 acts as an important regulatory molecule to control macrophage functional polarization and CD4+ T cell subset differentiation. Herein, we comprehensively summarize the biological functions of GCN2 and discuss its roles in the immune system, including innate and adaptive immune cells. We also discuss the antagonism of GCN2 and mTOR pathways in immune cells. A better understanding of GCN2's functions and signaling pathways in the immune system under physiological, stressful, and pathological situations will be beneficial to the development of potential therapies for many immune-relevant diseases.
The purpose of this RNA sequencing study was to investigate the biological mechanism underlying how the transcription factors (TFs) Twist1 and Zeb1 influence the prognosis of mycosis fungoides (MF). We used laser-captured microdissection to dissect malignant T-cells obtained from 40 skin biopsies from 40 MF patients with stage I-IV disease. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to determinate the protein expression levels of Twist1 and Zeb1. Based on RNA sequencing, principal component analysis (PCA), differential expression (DE) analysis, ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA), and hub gene analysis were performed between the high and low Twist1 IHC expression cases. The DNA from 28 samples was used to analyze the TWIST1 promoter methylation level. In the PCA, Twist1 IHC expression seemed to classify cases into different groups. The DE analysis yielded 321 significant genes. In the IPA, 228 significant upstream regulators and 177 significant master regulators/causal networks were identified. In the hub gene analysis, 28 hub genes were found. The methylation level of TWIST1 promoter regions did not correlate with Twist1 protein expression. Zeb1 protein expression did not show any major correlation with global RNA expression in the PCA. Many of the observed genes and pathways associated with high Twist1 expression are known to be involved in immunoregulation, lymphocyte differentiation, and aggressive tumor biology. In conclusion, Twist1 might be an important regulator in the disease progression of MF.
BACKGROUND: Bladder carcinoma has elevated morbimortality due to its high recurrence and progression in localized disease. A better understanding of the role of the tumor microenvironment in carcinogenesis and response to treatment is needed.METHODS: Peripheral blood and samples of urothelial bladder cancer and adjacent healthy urothelial tissue were collected from 41 patients and stratified in low- and high-grade urothelial bladder cancer, excluding muscular infiltration or carcinoma in situ. Mononuclear cells were isolated and labeled for flow cytometry analysis with antibodies aimed at identifying specific subpopulations within T lymphocytes, myeloid cells and NK cells.RESULTS: In peripheral blood and tumor samples, we detected different percentages of CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes, monocyte and myeloid-derived suppressor cells, as well as differential expression of activation- and exhaustion-related markers. Conversely, only a significant increase in bladder total monocytes was found when comparing bladder and tumor samples. Interestingly, we identified specific markers differentially expressed in the peripheral blood of patients with different outcomes.CONCLUSION: The analysis of host immune response in patients with NMIBC may help to identify specific markers that allow optimizing therapy and patient follow-up. Further investigation is needed to establish a strong predictive model.
BACKGROUND: Fibrotic hypersensitivity pneumonitis (fHP) shares many features with other fibrotic interstitial lung diseases (ILD), and as a result it can be misdiagnosed as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). We aimed to determine the value of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) total cell count (TCC) and lymphocytosis in distinguishing fHP and IPF and to evaluate the best cut-off points discriminating these two fibrotic ILD.METHODS: A retrospective cohort study of fHP and IPF patients diagnosed between 2005 and 2018 was conducted. Logistic regression was used to evaluate the diagnostic utility of clinical parameters in differentiating between fHP and IPF. Based on the ROC analysis, BAL parameters were evaluated for their diagnostic performance, and optimal diagnostic cut-offs were established.RESULTS: A total of 136 patients (65 fHP and 71 IPF) were included (mean age 54.97 ± 10.87 vs. 64.00 ± 7.18 years, respectively). BAL TCC and the percentage of lymphocytes were significantly higher in fHP compared to IPF (p < 0.001). BAL lymphocytosis >30% was found in 60% of fHP patients and none of the patients with IPF. The logistic regression revealed that younger age, never smoker status, identified exposure, lower FEV1, higher BAL TCC and higher BAL lymphocytosis increased the probability of fibrotic HP diagnosis. The lymphocytosis >20% increased by 25 times the odds of fibrotic HP diagnosis. The optimal cut-off values to differentiate fibrotic HP from IPF were 15 × 106 for TCC and 21% for BAL lymphocytosis with AUC 0.69 and 0.84, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Increased cellularity and lymphocytosis in BAL persist despite lung fibrosis in HP patients and may be used as important discriminators between IPF and fHP.
The gut microbiota, including bacteria, archaea, fungi, viruses and phages, inhabits the gastrointestinal tract. This commensal microbiota can contribute to the regulation of host immune response and homeostasis. Alterations of the gut microbiota have been found in many immune-related diseases. The metabolites generated by specific microorganisms in the gut microbiota, such as short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), tryptophan (Trp) and bile acid (BA) metabolites, not only affect genetic and epigenetic regulation but also impact metabolism in the immune cells, including immunosuppressive and inflammatory cells. The immunosuppressive cells (such as tolerogenic macrophages (tMacs), tolerogenic dendritic cells (tDCs), myeloid-derived suppressive cells (MDSCs), regulatory T cells (Tregs), regulatory B cells (Breg) and innate lymphocytes (ILCs)) and inflammatory cells (such as inflammatory Macs (iMacs), DCs, CD4 T helper (Th)1, CD4Th2, Th17, natural killer (NK) T cells, NK cells and neutrophils) can express different receptors for SCFAs, Trp and BA metabolites from different microorganisms. Activation of these receptors not only promotes the differentiation and function of immunosuppressive cells but also inhibits inflammatory cells, causing the reprogramming of the local and systemic immune system to maintain the homeostasis of the individuals. We here will summarize the recent advances in understanding the metabolism of SCFAs, Trp and BA in the gut microbiota and the effects of SCFAs, Trp and BA metabolites on gut and systemic immune homeostasis, especially on the differentiation and functions of the immune cells.
Quantitative phase imaging (QPI) is a non-invasive, label-free technique used to detect aberrant cell morphologies caused by disease, thus providing a useful diagnostic approach. Here, we evaluated the potential of QPI to differentiate specific morphological changes in human primary T-cells exposed to various bacterial species and strains. Cells were challenged with sterile bacterial determinants, i.e., membrane vesicles or culture supernatants, derived from different Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. Timelapse QPI by digital holographic microscopy (DHM) was applied to capture changes in T-cell morphology over time. After numerical reconstruction and image segmentation, we calculated single cell area, circularity and mean phase contrast. Upon bacterial challenge, T-cells underwent rapid morphological changes such as cell shrinkage, alterations of mean phase contrast and loss of cell integrity. Time course and intensity of this response varied between both different species and strains. The strongest effect was observed for treatment with S. aureus-derived culture supernatants that led to complete lysis of the cells. Furthermore, cell shrinkage and loss of circular shape was stronger in Gram-negative than in Gram-positive bacteria. Additionally, T-cell response to bacterial virulence factors was concentration-dependent, as decreases in cellular area and circularity were enhanced with increasing concentrations of bacterial determinants. Our findings clearly indicate that T-cell response to bacterial stress depends on the causative pathogen, and specific morphological alterations can be detected using DHM.
Leukocytosis is the broad term for an elevated white blood cell (WBC) count, typically above 11.0x10^9/L, on a peripheral blood smear collection. The exact value of WBC elevation can vary slightly between laboratories depending on their 'upper limits of normal' as identified by their reference ranges. The WBC value represents the sum-total of white blood cell subtypes, including neutrophils, eosinophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, atypical leukocytes that are not normally present on a peripheral blood smear (e.g., lymphoblasts), or any combination of these. The clinician should properly characterize the leukocytosis and determine if further evaluation and workup are indicated. The broad differential diagnoses of leukocytosis require evaluation beyond basic laboratory workup, and clinicians should be able to perform physical examinations and targeted histories to ascertain the possible causes of the presenting lab abnormality. To evaluate for these causes, careful histories, physical examinations, medication reconciliations, family histories, and the possible need for consultants for procedures (e.g., genetic testing, hematology/oncology consultations, infectious disease, etc.) must be completed depending on what is discovered.
BACKGROUND: An early diagnosis of pancreatic cancer (PC) is extremely difficult because of the lack of sensitive liquid biopsy methods and effective biomarkers. We attempted to evaluate whether circulating inflammatory marker could complement CA199 for the detection of early-stage PC.METHODS: We enrolled 430 patients with early-stage PC, 287 patients with other pancreatic tumors (OPT), and 401 healthy controls (HC). The patients and HC were randomly divided into a training set (n = 872) and two testing sets (n1 = 218, n2 = 28). The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were investigated to evaluate the diagnostic performance of circulating inflammatory markers ratios, CA199, and combinations of the markers ratios in the training set, which would then be validated in the two testing sets.RESULTS: Circulating fibrinogen, neutrophils, and monocytes in patients with PC were significantly higher while circulating albumin, prealbumin, lymphocytes, and platelets of patients with PC were significantly lower compared to those of HC and OPT (all P < 0.05). The fibrinogen-to-albumin (FAR), fibrinogen-to-prealbumin (FPR), neutrophil-to-lymphocyte (NLR), platelet-to-lymphocyte (PLR), monocyte-to-lymphocyte (MLR), and fibrinogen-to-lymphocyte (FLR) ratios were significantly higher while the prognostic nutrition index values (PNI) were lower in patients with PC than in HC and OPT (all P < 0.05). Combining the FAR, FPR, and FLR with CA199 exhibited the best diagnostic value for distinguishing patients with early-stage PC from HC with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.964, and for distinguishing patients with early-stage PC from OPT with an AUC of 0.924 in the training sets. In the testing set, compared with HC, the combination markers had powerful efficiency for PC with an AUC 0.947 and AUC 0.942 when comparing PC with OPT. The AUC was 0.915 for the combination of CA199, FAR, FPR, and FLR for differentiating between patients with pancreatic head cancer (PHC) and other pancreatic head tumors (OPHT), and 0.894 for differentiating between patients with pancreatic body and tail cancer (PBTC) and other pancreatic body and tail tumors (OPBTT).CONCLUSION: A combination of FAR, FPR, FLR, and CA199 may serve as a potential non-invasive biomarker for differentiating early-stage PC from HC and OPT, especially early-stage PHC.
The cellular reconstitution after childhood cancer therapy is associated with the risk of infection and efficacy of revaccination. Many studies have described the reconstitution after stem cell transplantation (SCT). The recovery after cancer treatment in children who have not undergone SCT has mainly been investigated in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), less for solid tumors. Here, we have examined the temporal evolution of total leukocyte, neutrophil and lymphocyte counts as surrogate parameters for the post-therapeutic immune recovery in a cohort of n = 52 patients with ALL in comparison to n = 58 patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) and n = 22 patients with Ewing sarcoma (ES). Patients with ALL showed an efficient increase in blood counts reaching the age-adjusted lower limits of normal between 4 and 5 months after the end of maintenance therapy. The two groups of patients with HD and ES exhibited a comparably delayed recovery of total leukocytes due to a protracted post-therapeutic lymphopenia which was most pronounced in patients with HD after irradiation. Overall, we observed a clearly more efficient resurgence of total lymphocyte counts in patients aged below 12 years compared to patients aged 12 to 18 years. Our results underline that the kinetics of cellular reconstitution after therapy for HD and ES differ significantly from ALL and depend on treatment regimens and modalities as well as on patient age. This suggests a need for disease, treatment, and age specific recommendations concerning the duration of infection prophylaxis and the timing of revaccination.
There is no blood biomarker diagnostic of arterial thrombosis. We investigated if arterial thrombosis per se was associated with alterations in complete blood count (CBC) and white blood cell (WBC) differential count in mice. Twelve-week-old C57Bl/6 mice were used for FeCl3-mediated carotid thrombosis (n = 72), sham-operation (n = 79), or non-operation (n = 26). Monocyte count (/µL) at 30-min after thrombosis (median 160 [interquartile range 140-280]) was ~ 1.3-fold higher than at 30-min after sham-operation (120 [77.5-170]), and twofold higher than in non-operated mice (80 [47.5-92.5]). At day-1 and -4 post-thrombosis, compared with 30-min, monocyte count decreased by about 6% and 28% to 150 [100-200] and 115 [100-127.5], which however were about 2.1-fold and 1.9-fold higher than in sham-operated mice (70 [50-100] and 60 [30-75], respectively). Lymphocyte counts (/µL) at 1- and 4-days after thrombosis (mean ± SD; 3513 ± 912 and 2590 ± 860) were ~ 38% and ~ 54% lower than those in the sham-operated mice (5630 ± 1602 and 5596 ± 1437, respectively), and ~ 39% and ~ 55% lower than those in non-operated mice (5791 ± 1344). Post-thrombosis monocyte-lymphocyte-ratio (MLR) was substantially higher at all three time-points (0.050 ± 0.02, 0.046 ± 0.025, and 0.050 ± 0.02) vs. sham (0.003 ± 0.021, 0.013 ± 0.004, and 0.010 ± 0.004). MLR was 0.013 ± 0.005 in non-operated mice. This is the first report on acute arterial thrombosis-related alterations in CBC and WBC differential parameters.
CD4+ tissue resident memory T cells (TRMs) are implicated in the formation of persistent HIV reservoirs that are established during the very early stages of infection. The tissue-specific factors that direct T cells to establish tissue residency are not well defined, nor are the factors that establish viral latency. We report that costimulation via MAdCAM-1 and retinoic acid (RA), two constituents of gut tissues, together with TGF-β, promote the differentiation of CD4+ T cells into a distinct subset α4β7+CD69+CD103+ TRM-like cells. Among the costimulatory ligands we evaluated, MAdCAM-1 was unique in its capacity to upregulate both CCR5 and CCR9. MAdCAM-1 costimulation rendered cells susceptible to HIV infection. Differentiation of TRM-like cells was reduced by MAdCAM-1 antagonists developed to treat inflammatory bowel diseases. These finding provide a framework to better understand the contribution of CD4+ TRMs to persistent viral reservoirs and HIV pathogenesis.
Subsets of the human CD8+ T cell population express inhibitory NK cell receptors, such as killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) and NKG2A. In the present study, we examine the phenotypic and functional characteristics of KIR+CD8+ T cells and NKG2A+CD8+ T cells. KIRs and NKG2A tend to be expressed by human CD8+ T cells in a mutually exclusive manner. In addition, TCR clonotypes of KIR+CD8+ T cells barely overlap with those of NKG2A+CD8+ T cells, and KIR+CD8+ T cells are more terminally differentiated and replicative senescent than NKG2A+CD8+ T cells. Among cytokine receptors, IL12Rβ1, IL12Rβ2, and IL18Rβ are highly expressed by NKG2A+CD8+ T cells, whereas IL2Rβ is expressed by KIR+CD8+ T cells. IL-12/IL-18-induced production of IFN-γ is prominent in NKG2A+CD8+ T cells, whereas IL-15-induced NK-like cytotoxicity is prominent in KIR+CD8+ T cells. These findings suggest that KIR+CD8+ and NKG2A+CD8+ T cells are distinct innate-like populations with different cytokine responsiveness.
PURPOSE: Differentiating abdominal pain due to coronavirus disease (COVID-19)-associated multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) in children with acute appendicitis (AA) can cause diagnostic dilemmas. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of a previously described scoring system and improve its diagnostic ability in differentiating between these diseases.METHODS: This study was conducted between March 2020 and January 2022. Patients who had MIS-C with gastrointestinal system (GIS) involvement and patients who underwent surgery for appendicitis were included. First, all patients were evaluated using the new scoring system (NSS). The groups were compared by adding new MISC-specific parameters to NSS. The scoring system was evaluated using propensity score matching (PSM).RESULTS: A total of 35 patients with abdominal pain due to GIS involvement in MIS-C (group A) and 37 patients with AA who had ALT, PRC, and D-dimer results at their first admission (group B) were included in the study. The mean age of patients in group A was lower than that of patients in group B (p < 0.001). False NSS positivity was found in 45.7% of the patients with MIS-C. Lymphocyte (p = 0.021) and platelet counts (p = 0.036) were significantly lower in the blood count and serum D-dimer (p = 0.034), C-reactive protein (CRP) (p < 0.001), and procalcitonin (p < 0.001) were significantly higher in the MIS-C group. We created a scoring system called the Appendicitis-MISC Score (AMS) using the NSS and new parameters. The sensitivity and specificity of AMS diagnostic scores were 91.9% and 80%, respectively.CONCLUSION: MIS-C with GIS involvement may present as acute abdomen. It is difficult to differentiate this condition from acute appendicitis. AMS has been shown to be useful for this differentiation.
Comment on    J Exp Med. 2023 May 1;220(5):
Comment on    Cancer Immunol Res. 2023 Feb 9;:
Although therapeutic immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies that regulate the activity of immune checkpoints bring innovation to the field of immuno-oncology, they are still limited in their efficiency to infiltrate the tumor microenvironment due to their large molecular size (150 kDa) and the necessity of additional engineering works to ablate effector functions for antibodies targeting immune cells. To address these issues, the human PD-1 (hPD-1) ectodomain, a small protein moiety of 14-17 kDa, has been considered as a therapeutic agent. Here, we used bacterial display-based high-throughput directed evolution to successfully isolate glycan-controlled (aglycosylated or only single-N-linked glycosylated) human PD-1 variants exhibiting over 1000-fold increased hPD-L1 binding affinity compared to that of wild-type hPD-1. The resulting hPD-1 variants, aglycosylated JYQ12 and JYQ12-2 with a single-N-linked glycan chain, showed exceptionally high binding affinity to hPD-L1 and very high affinity to both hPD-L2 and mPD-L1. Moreover, the JYQ12-2 efficiently potentiated the proliferation of human T cells. hPD-1 variants with significantly improved binding affinities for hPD-1 ligands could be used as effective therapeutics or diagnostics that can be differentiated from large-sized IgG antibody-based molecules.
Constantly stimulated by the tumor microenvironment (TME), programmed death 1 (PD‑1) is elevated, and it interacts with PD ligand 1 (PD‑L1), rendering chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)‑T cells dysfunctional. Hence, CAR‑T cells immune to PD‑1‑induced immunosuppression were constructed to improve the function of CAR‑T cells in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Double‑target CAR‑T cells, targeting glypican‑3 (GPC3) [a tumour-associated antigen (TAA)] and hindering PD‑1‑PD‑L1 binding, were established. The expression of GPC3, PD‑L1, and inhibitory receptors was measured using flow cytometry. The cytotoxicity, cytokine release, and differentiation level of CAR‑T cells were determined using lactate dehydrogenase release assay, enzyme‑linked immunosorbent assay, and flow cytometry, respectively. HCC cells were targeted and eliminated by double‑target CAR‑T cells. These double‑target CAR‑T cells limit PD‑1‑PD‑L1 binding and sustain cytotoxicity to PD‑L1+ HCC cells. The relatively low IR expression and differentiation level in double‑target CAR‑T cells in tumour tissues induced tumour‑suppression and extended survival in PD‑L1+ HCC TX models, as opposed to their single‑target counterparts. The results of the present study suggested that the newly constructed double‑target CAR‑T cells exhibit stronger tumour‑suppressing effects in HCC than their single‑target counterparts, which are common, suggesting the potential of strengthening CAR‑T cell activity in HCC treatment.
αLβ2 (LFA-1) mediated interactions with ICAM-1 and ICAM-2 predominate leukocyte-vascular interactions, but their functions in extravascular cell-cell communications is still debated. The roles of these two ligands in leukocyte trafficking, lymphocyte differentiation, and immunity to influenza infections were dissected in the present study. Surprisingly, double ICAM-1 and ICAM-2 knock out mice (herein ICAM-1/2-/- mice) infected with a lab adapted H1N1 influenza A virus fully recovered from infection, elicited potent humoral immunity, and generated normal long lasting anti-viral CD8+ T cell memory. Furthermore, lung capillary ICAMs were dispensable for both NK and neutrophil entry to virus infected lungs. Mediastinal lymph nodes (MedLNs) of ICAM-1/2-/- mice poorly recruited naïve T cells and B lymphocytes but elicited normal humoral immunity critical for viral clearance and effective CD8+ differentiation into IFN-γ producing T cells. Furthermore, whereas reduced numbers of virus specific effector CD8+ T cells accumulated inside infected ICAM-1/2-/- lungs, normal virus-specific TRM CD8+ cells were generated inside these lungs and fully protected ICAM-1/2-/- mice from secondary heterosubtypic infections. B lymphocyte entry to the MedLNs and differentiation into extrafollicular plasmablasts, producing high affinity anti-influenza IgG2a antibodies, were also ICAM-1 and ICAM-2 independent. A potent antiviral humoral response was associated with accumulation of hyper-stimulated cDC2s in ICAM null MedLNs and higher numbers of virus-specific T follicular helper (Tfh) cells generated following lung infection. Mice selectively depleted of cDC ICAM-1 expression supported, however, normal CTL and Tfh differentiation following influenza infection, ruling out essential co-stimulatory functions of DC ICAM-1 in CD8+ and CD4+ T cell differentiation. Collectively our findings suggest that lung ICAMs are dispensable for innate leukocyte trafficking to influenza infected lungs, for the generation of peri-epithelial TRM CD8+ cells, and long term anti-viral cellular immunity. In lung draining LNs, although ICAMs promote lymphocyte homing, these key integrin ligands are not required for influenza-specific humoral immunity or generation of IFN-γ effector CD8+ T cells. In conclusion, our findings suggest unexpected compensatory mechanisms that orchestrate protective anti-influenza immunity in the absence of vascular and extravascular ICAMs.
In cancer, evolutionary forces select for clones that evade the immune system. Here we analyzed >10,000 primary tumors and 356 immune-checkpoint-treated metastases using immune dN/dS, the ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous mutations in the immunopeptidome, to measure immune selection in cohorts and individuals. We classified tumors as immune edited when antigenic mutations were removed by negative selection and immune escaped when antigenicity was covered up by aberrant immune modulation. Only in immune-edited tumors was immune predation linked to CD8 T cell infiltration. Immune-escaped metastases experienced the best response to immunotherapy, whereas immune-edited patients did not benefit, suggesting a preexisting resistance mechanism. Similarly, in a longitudinal cohort, nivolumab treatment removes neoantigens exclusively in the immunopeptidome of nonimmune-edited patients, the group with the best overall survival response. Our work uses dN/dS to differentiate between immune-edited and immune-escaped tumors, measuring potential antigenicity and ultimately helping predict response to treatment.
The initial development of cytomegalovirus (CMV) as a vaccine vector for HIV/simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) was predicated on its potential to pre-position high-frequency, effector-differentiated, CD8+ T cells in tissues for immediate immune interception of nascent primary infection. This goal was achieved and also led to the unexpected discoveries that non-human primate (NHP) CMVs can be programmed to differentially elicit CD8+ T cell responses that recognize viral peptides via classical MHC-Ia, and/or MHC-II, and/or MHC-E, and that MHC-E-restricted CD8+ T cell responses can uniquely mediate stringent arrest and subsequent clearance of highly pathogenic SIV, an unprecedented type of vaccine-mediated protection. These discoveries delineate CMV vector-elicited MHC-E-restricted CD8+ T cells as a functionally distinct T cell response with the potential for superior efficacy against HIV-1, and possibly other infectious agents or cancers.
BACKGROUND: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of neurological and psychological problems, especially long-term disability. The purpose of this article is to explore molecular mechanisms linking TBI and pyroptosis with the aim of providing a promising target for future therapeutic interventions.METHODS: GSE104687 microarray dataset was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database to obtain differential expressed genes. Meanwhile, pyroptosis-related genes were screened from GeneCards database, and the overlapped genes were considered as the pyroptosis-related genes in TBI. The immune infiltration analysis was conducted to quantify lymphocyte infiltration levels. Moreover, we researched the relevant microRNAs (miRNAs) and transcription factors and investigated the interactions and functions of miRNAs. In addition, the validation set and in vivo experiment further verified the expression of hub gene.RESULTS: Altogether, we found 240 differential expressed genes in GSE104687 and 254 pyroptosis-related genes in the GeneCards database, and the overlapped gene was caspase 8 (CASP8). Immune Infiltration Analysis suggested the abundance of Tregs cells was significantly higher in TBI group. The NKT and CD8+ Tem were positively correlated with the expression levels of CASP8. The most significant term regarding CASP8 in Reactome pathways analysis was related to NF-kappaB. A total of 20 miRNAs and 25 transcription factors associated with CASP8 were obtained. After investigating the interactions and functions of miRNAs, the NF-kappaB-related signaling pathway was still enriched with a relatively low P-value. The validation set and in vivo experiment further verified the expression of CASP8.CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed the potential role of CASP8 in pathogenesis of TBI, which may provide a new target for individualized therapy and drug development.
BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a prototypical autoimmune disease affecting multiple organs and tissues with high cellular heterogeneity. CD8+ T cell activity is involved in the SLE pathogenesis. However, the cellular heterogeneity and the underlying mechanisms of CD8+ T cells in SLE remain to be identified.METHODS: Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of PBMCs from a SLE family pedigree (including 3 HCs and 2 SLE patients) was performed to identify the SLE-associated CD8+ T cell subsets. Flow cytometry analysis of a SLE cohort (including 23 HCs and 33 SLE patients), qPCR analysis of another SLE cohort (including 30 HCs and 25 SLE patients) and public scRNA-seq datasets of autoimmune diseases were employed to validate the finding. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) of this SLE family pedigree was used to investigate the genetic basis in dysregulation of CD8+ T cell subsets identified in this study. Co-culture experiments were performed to analyze the activity of CD8+ T cells.FINDINGS: We elucidated the cellular heterogeneity of SLE and identified a new highly cytotoxic CD8+ T cell subset, CD161-CD8+ TEMRA cell subpopulation, which was remarkably increased in SLE patients. Meanwhile, we discovered a close correlation between mutation of DTHD1 and the abnormal accumulation of CD161-CD8+ TEMRA cells in SLE. DTHD1 interacted with MYD88 to suppress its activity in T cells and DTHD1 mutation promoted MYD88-dependent pathway and subsequently increased the proliferation and cytotoxicity of CD161-CD8+ TEMRA cells. Furthermore, the differentially expressed genes in CD161-CD8+ TEMRA cells displayed a strong out-of-sample prediction for case-control status of SLE.INTERPRETATION: This study identified DTHD1-associated expansion of CD161-CD8+ TEMRA cell subpopulation is critical for SLE. Our study highlights genetic association and cellular heterogeneity of SLE pathogenesis and provides a mechanistical insight into the diagnosis and treatment of SLE.FUNDINGS: Stated in the Acknowledgements section of the manuscript.
In this work, we briefly describe our technology developed for computing periodic solutions of time-delay systems and discuss the results of computing periodic solutions for the Marchuk-Petrov model with parameter values, corresponding to hepatitis B infection. We identified the regions in the model parameter space in which an oscillatory dynamics in the form of periodic solutions exists. The respective solutions can be interpreted as active forms of chronic hepatitis B. The period and amplitude of oscillatory solutions were traced along the parameter determining the efficacy of antigen presentation by macrophages for T- and B-lymphocytes in the model.. The oscillatory regimes are characterized by enhanced destruction of hepatocytes as a consequence of immunopathology and temporal reduction of viral load to values which can be a prerequisite of spontaneous recovery observed in chronic HBV infection. Our study presents a first step in a systematic analysis of the chronic HBV infection using Marchuk-Petrov model of antiviral immune response.
Mounting evidence has confirmed that essential hypertension (EH) is closely related to low-grade inflammation, but there is still a lack of in-depth understanding of the state of immune cells in the circulating blood of patients with EH. We analyzed whether hypertensive peripheral blood immune cell balance was destroyed. The peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of all subjects were analyzed using time-of-flight cytometry (CyTOF) based on 42 kinds of metal-binding antibodies. CD45+ cells were categorized into 32 kinds of subsets. Compared with the health control (HC) group, the percentage of total dendritic cells, two kinds of myeloid dendritic cell subsets, one intermediate/nonclassical monocyte subset and one CD4+ central memory T cell subset in the EH group, was significantly higher; the percentage of low-density neutrophils, four kinds of classical monocyte subsets, one CD14lowCD16- monocyte subset, one naive CD4+ and one naive CD8+ T cell subsets, one CD4+ effector and one CD4+ central memory T cell subsets, one CD8+ effector memory T cell subset, and one terminally differentiated γδ T cell subset, decreased significantly in EH. What is more, the expression of many important antigens was enhanced in CD45+ immune cells, granulocytes, and B cells in patients with EH. In conclusion, the altered number and antigen expression of immune cells reflect the imbalanced immune state of the peripheral blood in patients with EH.
About one-third of early stage oral cancer patients have occult nodal metastasis. High grade worst pattern of invasion (WPOI) is associated with an increased risk of nodal metastasis and poor prognosis. However, it still remains unanswered whether to perform an elective neck dissection for clinically node-negative disease or not. This study aims to evaluate the role of histological parameters including WPOI in predicting nodal metastasis in early-stage oral cancers. This analytical observational study comprised 100 patients of early-stage, node-negative, oral squamous cell carcinoma, admitted in the Surgical Oncology Department from April, 2018 till the sample size was reached. The socio-demographic data, clinical history, and findings of clinical and radiological examination were noted. The association of nodal metastasis with various histological parameters like tumour size, degree of differentiation, depth of invasion (DOI), WPOI, perineural invasion (PNI), lymphovascular invasion (LVI) and lymphocytic response was determined. SPSS 20.0 statistical tool; student's 't' test and chi-square tests were applied. While the buccal mucosa was the commonest site, the rate of occult metastasis was highest in the tongue. Nodal metastasis was not significantly associated with age, sex, smoking and primary site. While the nodal positivity was not significantly associated with tumour size, pathological stage, DOI, PNI and lymphocytic response, it was associated with LVI, degree of differentiation and WPOI. Increasing WPOI grade correlated significantly with the nodal stage, LVI and PNI, but not with DOI. WPOI is not only a significant predictor of occult nodal metastasis but can also be a novel therapeutic tool in the management of early-stage oral cancers. In patients with an aggressive WPOI pattern or other high-risk histological parameters, the neck can be addressed with either elective neck dissection or radiotherapy after wide excision of the primary tumor; otherwise, an active surveillance approach can be followed.
T cells play a crucial role in the regulation of immune response and are integral to the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy. Because immunotherapy has emerged as a promising treatment for cancer, increasing attention has been focused on the differentiation and function of T cells in immune response. In this review, we describe the research progress on T-cell exhaustion and stemness in the field of cancer immunotherapy and summarize advances in potential strategies to intervene and treat chronic infection and cancer by reversing T-cell exhaustion and maintaining and increasing T-cell stemness. Moreover, we discuss therapeutic strategies to overcome T-cell immunodeficiency in the tumor microenvironment and promote continuous breakthroughs in the anticancer activity of T cells.
BACKGROUND: Gut microbiota characteristics in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) are reportedly different when compared with the healthy population and it remains unclear if the gut microbiota affects host immunity and clinical disease features. This research investigated the gut microbiota in patients with untreated DLBCL and analyzed its correlation with patient clinical characteristics, humoral, and cell immune status.METHODS: Thirty-five patients with untreated DLBCL and 20 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited to this study and microbiota differences in stool samples were analyzed by 16S rDNA sequencing. Absolute ratios of immune cell subset counts in peripheral blood were detected by flow cytometry and peripheral blood cytokine levels were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Relationships between changes in patient microbiomes and clinical characteristics, such as clinical stage, international prognostic index (IPI) risk stratification, cell origin, organ involved and treatment responses were investigated and correlations between differential microbiota and host immune indices were analyzed.RESULTS: The alpha-diversity index of intestinal microecology in DLBCL patients was not significantly different when compared with HCs (P>0.05), nonetheless beta-diversity was significantly decreased (P=0.001). p_Proteobacteria were dominant in DLBCL, while p_Bacteroidetes abundance was significantly decreased when compared with HCs (P<0.05). Gut microbiota characteristics were identified that were associated with clinical features, such as tumor load, risk stratification and cell origin, and correlation analyses were performed between differential flora abundance associated with these clinical features and host immune status. The p_Firmicutes was positively correlated with absolute lymphocyte values, g_Prevotella_2 and s_un_g_Prevotella_2 were negatively correlated with absolute lymphocyte values, T cell counts and CD4 cell counts, while g_Pyramidobacter, s_un_g_Pyramidobacter, and f_Peptostreptococcaceae were negatively correlated with IgA.CONCLUSIONS: Dominant gut microbiota, abundance, diversity, and structure in DLBCL were influenced by the disease, correlated with patient immune status and this suggested that the microecology-immune axis may be involved in regulating lymphoma development. In the future, it may be possible to improve immune function in patients with DLBCL by regulating the gut microbiota, improve treatment response rates and increase patient survival rates.
BACKGROUND: There is no unified standard data about the sensitivity and specificity regarding flow cytometry analysis of Ki67 expression during lymphoma diagnoses.OBJECTIVE: This evaluated the efficacy of multicolor flow cytometry (MFC) in an estimate of the proliferative activity of B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma by comparing the expression of Ki67 using MFC and immunohistochemicals (IHC).METHOD: A total of 559 patients with non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma were immunophenotyped using sensitive MFC, of which 517 were newly diagnosed and 42 were transformed lymphomas. Test samples include peripheral blood, bone marrow, various body fluids, and tissues. Through MFC multi-marker accurate gating, abnormal mature B lymphocytes with restricted expression of the light chain were screened. Ki67 was added to determine the proliferation index; the positive rate of Ki67 in tumor B cells was evaluated by cell grouping and internal control. For tissue specimens, MFC and IHC analyses were performed simultaneously to assess the Ki67 proliferation index.RESULTS: The positive rate of Ki67 by MFC was correlated with the subtype and aggressiveness of B-cell lymphoma. Ki67 could distinguish indolent lymphomas from aggressive subtypes with a cut-off value of 21.25%, and differentiate transformation from indolent lymphoma with a cut-off value of 7.65%. The expression of Ki67 by MFC (regardless of the type of samples)was highly agreement with the Ki67 proliferative index of tissue samples assessed by pathologic immunohistochemistry. MFC showed a fairly constant negative bias in evaluating tissue or bone marrow samples, compared with IHC.CONCLUSIONS: Ki67 is a valuable flow marker that can distinguish between indolent and aggressive types of lymphoma and assess whether indolent lymphomas are transformed. Using MFC to evaluate the positive rate of Ki67 is important in clinical settings. MFC has unique advantages in judging the aggressiveness of lymphoma in samples of bone marrow, peripheral blood, pleural and ascites, and cerebrospinal fluid. This is particularly important when tissue samples cannot be obtained, making it an important supplement for pathologic examination.
To evaluate the prevalence and pattern of developmental defects of the enamel (DDE) and their risk factors among children born infected with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and those born to HIV-infected mothers compared with their unexposed counterparts (i.e., children born to uninfected mothers). This was an analytic cross-sectional study evaluating the presence and pattern of distribution of DDE in three groups of school-aged children (age, 4-11 years) receiving care and treatment at a Nigerian tertiary hospital, comprising: (1) HIV-infected (HI) on antiretroviral therapy (ART) (n = 184), (2) HIV-exposed but uninfected (HEU) (n = 186) and (3) HIV-unexposed and uninfected (HUU) (n = 184). Data capture forms and questionnaires were used to record the children's medical and dental history based on clinical chart review and recall from their parents/guardians. Dental examinations were performed by calibrated dentists blinded to the study grouping. CD4+ (Cluster of Differentiation) T-cell counts were assayed for all participants. The diagnosis of DDE corresponded with the codes enumerated in the World Dental Federation's modified DDE Index. Analyses relied on comparative statistics to determine risk factors associated with DDE. A total of 103 participants distributed among the three groups presented with at least one form of DDE, which indicated a prevalence of 18.59%. The HI group had the highest frequency of DDE-affected teeth (4.36%), while that of the HEU and HUU groups were 2.73% and 2.05%, respectively. Overall, the most encountered DDE was code 1 (Demarcated Opacity), accounting for 30.93% of all codes. DDE codes 1, 4 and 6 showed significant associations with the HI and HEU groups in both dentitions (p < 0.05). We found no significant association DDE and either very low birth weight or preterm births. A marginal association with CD4+ lymphocyte count was observed in HI participants. DDE is prevalent in school-aged children, and HIV infection is a significant risk factor for hypoplasia, a common form of DDE. Our results were consistent with other research linking controlled HIV (with ART) to oral diseases and reinforce advocacies for public policies targeted at infants exposed/infected perinatally with HIV.
Disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) have improved the prognosis of autoimmune inflammatory arthritides but a large fraction of patients display partial or nonresponsiveness to front-line DMARDs. Here, an immunoregulatory approach based on sustained joint-localized release of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), which modulates local immune activation and enhances disease-protective T cells and leads to systemic disease control is reported. ATRA imprints a unique chromatin landscape in T cells, which is associated with an enhancement in the differentiation of naïve T cells into anti-inflammatory regulatory T cells (Treg ) and suppression of Treg destabilization. Sustained release poly-(lactic-co-glycolic) acid (PLGA)-based biodegradable microparticles encapsulating ATRA (PLGA-ATRA MP) are retained in arthritic mouse joints after intra-articular (IA) injection. IA PLGA-ATRA MP enhance migratory Treg which in turn reduce inflammation and modify disease in injected and uninjected joints, a phenotype that is also reproduced by IA injection of Treg . PLGA-ATRA MP reduce proteoglycan loss and bone erosions in the SKG and collagen-induced arthritis mouse models of autoimmune arthritis. Strikingly, systemic disease modulation by PLGA-ATRA MP is not associated with generalized immune suppression. PLGA-ATRA MP have the potential to be developed as a disease modifying agent for autoimmune arthritis.
Sanghuangporus vaninii is a medicinal mushroom, which has been used as a treatment for various diseases; however, the therapeutic potential and mechanism of action of S. vaninii in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain unknown. Herein, human colon adenocarcinoma cells were used to analyze the anti-CRC effects of the purified polysaccharide of S. vaninii (SVP-A-1) in vitro. In SVP-A-1-treated B6/JGpt-Apcem1Cin (Min)/Gpt male (ApcMin/+) mice, 16S rRNA sequencing was performed on cecal feces, metabolites were examined in serum, and LC-MS/MS protein detection was performed in colorectal tumors. Protein changes were further confirmed by various biochemical detection methods. Water-soluble SVP-A-1 with a molecular weight of 22.5 kDa was first obtained. SVP-A-1 prevented gut microbiota dysbiosis related to metabolic pathways of L-arginine biosynthesis, increased L-citrulline levels in the serum of ApcMin/+ mice, mediated L-arginine synthesis, and improved antigen presentation in dendritic cells and activated CD4+ T cells; the resulting Th1 cells released IFN-γ and TNF-α to act on tumor cells and promoted the sensitivity of tumor cells to cytotoxic T lymphocytes. In summary, SVP-A-1 exerted anti-CRC effects and has excellent potential for CRC treatment.
Epigenetic regulation affects the development and differentiation of iNKT cells. Our previous study found that the number of iNKT cells in thymus of RA mice was reduced and the ratio of subsets was unbalanced, but the related mechanism remains unclear. We adopted an adoptive infusion of iNKT2 cells with specific phenotypes and functions to RA mice and used the α-Galcer treatment group as control. The findings revealed that: 1. Adoptive treatment of iNKT cells decreased the proportion of iNKT1 and iNKT17 subsets in the thymus of RA mice, and increased the proportion of iNKT2 subsets. 2. Following treatment with iNKT cells, the expression of PLZF in thymus DP T cells was increased whereas the expression of T-bet in thymus iNKT cells was decreased in RA mice. 3. Adoptive therapy reduced the modification levels of H3Kb7me3 and H3K4me3 in the promoter regions of Zbtb16 (encoding PLZF) and Tbx21 (encoding T-bet) gene in thymus DP T cells and iNKT cells, and the reduction of H3K4me3 was particularly significant in the cell treatment group. Furthermore, adoptive therapy also upregulated the expression of UTX (histone demethylase) in thymus lymphocytes of RA mice. As a result, it is hypothesized that adoptive therapy of iNKT2 cells may affect the level of histone methylation in the promoter region of important transcription factor genes for iNKT development and differentiation, thereby directly or indirectly correcting the imbalance of iNKT subsets in the thymus of RA mice. These findings offer a fresh rationale and concept for the management of RA that targets.
Naive CD4+ T cells are more resistant to age-related loss than naive CD8+ T cells, suggesting mechanisms that preferentially protect naive CD4+ T cells during aging. Here, we show that TRIB2 is more abundant in naive CD4+ than CD8+ T cells and counteracts quiescence exit by suppressing AKT activation. TRIB2 deficiency increases AKT activity and accelerates proliferation and differentiation in response to interleukin-7 (IL-7) in humans and during lymphopenia in mice. TRIB2 transcription is controlled by the lineage-determining transcription factors ThPOK and RUNX3. Ablation of Zbtb7b (encoding ThPOK) and Cbfb (obligatory RUNT cofactor) attenuates the difference in lymphopenia-induced proliferation between naive CD4+ and CD8+ cells. In older adults, ThPOK and TRIB2 expression wanes in naive CD4+ T cells, causing loss of naivety. These findings assign TRIB2 a key role in regulating T cell homeostasis and provide a model to explain the lesser resilience of CD8+ T cells to undergo changes with age.
AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Insulitis is not present in all islets, and it is elusive in humans. Although earlier studies focused on islets that fulfilled certain criteria (e.g. ≥15 CD45+ cells or ≥6 CD3+ cells), there is a fundamental lack of understanding of the infiltration dynamics in terms of its magnitude (i.e. how much) and extent (i.e. where). Here, we aimed to perform an in-depth characterisation of T cell infiltration by investigating islets with moderate (1-5 CD3+ cells) and high (≥6 CD3+ cells) infiltration in individuals with and without type 1 diabetes.METHODS: Pancreatic tissue sections from 15 non-diabetic, eight double autoantibody-positive and ten type 1 diabetic (0-2 years of disease duration) organ donors were obtained from the Network for Pancreatic Organ Donors with Diabetes, and stained for insulin, glucagon, CD3 and CD8 by immunofluorescence. T cell infiltration was quantified in a total of 8661 islets using the software QuPath. The percentage of infiltrated islets and islet T cell density were calculated. To help standardise the analysis of T cell infiltration, we used cell density data to develop a new T cell density threshold capable of differentiating non-diabetic and type 1 diabetic donors.RESULTS: Our analysis revealed that 17.1% of islets in non-diabetic donors, 33% of islets in autoantibody-positive and 32.5% of islets in type 1 diabetic donors were infiltrated by 1 to 5 CD3+ cells. Islets infiltrated by ≥6 CD3+ cells were rare in non-diabetic donors (0.4%) but could be found in autoantibody-positive (4.5%) and type 1 diabetic donors (8.2%). CD8+ and CD8- populations followed similar patterns. Likewise, T cell density was significantly higher in the islets of autoantibody-positive donors (55.4 CD3+ cells/mm2) and type 1 diabetic donors (74.8 CD3+ cells/mm2) compared with non-diabetic individuals (17.3 CD3+ cells/mm2), which was accompanied by higher exocrine T cell density in type 1 diabetic individuals. Furthermore, we showed that the analysis of a minimum of 30 islets and the use of a reference mean value for T cell density of 30 CD3+ cells/mm2 (the 30-30 rule) can differentiate between non-diabetic and type 1 diabetic donors with high specificity and sensitivity. In addition, it can classify autoantibody-positive individuals as non-diabetic or type 1 diabetic-like.CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Our data indicates that the proportion of infiltrated islets and T cell density change dramatically during the course of type 1 diabetes, and these changes can be already observed in double autoantibody-positive individuals. This suggests that, as disease progresses, T cell infiltration extends throughout the pancreas, reaching the islets and exocrine compartment. While it predominantly targets insulin-containing islets, large accumulations of cells are rare. Our study fulfils the need to further understand T cell infiltration, not only after diagnosis but also in individuals with diabetes-related autoantibodies. Furthermore, the development and application of new analytical tools based on T cell infiltration, like the 30-30 rule, will allow us to correlate islet infiltration with demographic and clinical variables with the aim of identifying individuals at the very early stages of the disease.
This study aimed to develop a nomogram for predicting the progression-free survival (PFS) of testicular germ cell tumors (TGCT) patients based on DNA methylation signature and clinicopathological characteristics. The DNA methylation profiles, transcriptome data, and clinical information of TGCT patients were obtained from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Univariate Cox, lasso Cox, and stepwise multivariate Cox regression were applied to identify a prognostic CpG sites-derived risk signature. Differential expression analysis, functional enrichment analysis, immunoinfiltration analysis, chemotherapy sensitivity analysis, and clinical feature correlation analysis were performed to elucidate the differences among risk groups. A prognostic nomogram integrating CpG sites-derived risk signature and clinicopathological features was further established and evaluated likewise. A risk score model based on 7 CpG sites was developed and found to exhibit significant differences among different survival, staging, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy subgroups. There were 1452 differentially expressed genes between the high- and low-risk groups, with 666 being higher expressed and 786 being lower expressed. Genes highly expressed were significantly enriched in immune-related biological processes and related to T-cell differentiation pathways; meanwhile, down-regulated genes were significantly enriched in extracellular matrix tissue organization-related biological processes and involved in multiple signaling pathways such as PI3K-AKT. As compared with the low-risk group, patients in the high-risk group had decreased lymphocyte infiltration (including T-cell and B-cell) and increased macrophage infiltration (M2 macrophages). They also showed decreased sensitivity to etoposide and bleomycin chemotherapy. Three clusters were obtained by consensus clustering analysis based on the 7 CpG sites and showed distinct prognostic features, and the risk scores in each cluster were significantly different. Multivariate Cox regression analysis found that the risk scores, age, chemotherapy, and staging were independent prognostic factors of PFS of TGCT, and the results were used to formulate a nomogram model that was validated to have a C-index of 0.812. Decision curve analysis showed that the nomogram model was superior to other strategies in the prediction of PFS of TGCT. In this study, we successfully established CpG sites-derived risk signature, which might serve as a useful tool in the prediction of PFS, immunoinfiltration, and chemotherapy sensitivity for TGCT patients.
Stimulation of naïve T cells during primary infection or vaccination drives the differentiation and expansion of effector and memory T cells that mediate immediate and long-term protection. Despite self-reliant rescue from infection, BCG vaccination, and treatment, long-term memory is rarely established against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) resulting in recurrent tuberculosis (TB). Here, we show that berberine (BBR) enhances innate defense mechanisms against M.tb and stimulates the differentiation of Th1/Th17 specific effector memory (TEM), central memory (TCM), and tissue-resident memory (TRM) responses leading to enhanced host protection against drug-sensitive and drug-resistant TB. Through whole proteome analysis of human PBMCs derived from PPD+ healthy individuals, we identify BBR modulated NOTCH3/PTEN/AKT/FOXO1 pathway as the central mechanism of elevated TEM and TRM responses in the human CD4+ T cells. Moreover, BBR-induced glycolysis resulted in enhanced effector functions leading to superior Th1/Th17 responses in human and murine T cells. This regulation of T cell memory by BBR remarkably enhanced the BCG-induced anti-tubercular immunity and lowered the rate of TB recurrence due to relapse and re-infection. These results thus suggest tuning immunological memory as a feasible approach to augment host resistance against TB and unveil BBR as a potential adjunct immunotherapeutic and immunoprophylactic against TB.
Primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) is a systemic autoimmune inflammatory disease mainly defined by T cell-dominated destruction of exocrine glands. Currently, CD8+ T cells are thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of pSS. However, the single-cell immune profiling of pSS and molecular signatures of pathogenic CD8+ T cells have not been well elucidated. Our multiomics investigation showed that both T cells and B cells, especially CD8+ T cells, were undergoing significant clonal expansion in pSS patients. TCR clonality analysis revealed that peripheral blood granzyme K+ (GZMK+) CXCR6+CD8+ T cells had higher a proportion of clones shared with CD69+CD103-CD8+ tissue-resident memory T (Trm) cells in labial glands in pSS. CD69+CD103-CD8+ Trm cells featured by high expression of GZMK were more active and cytotoxic in pSS compared with their CD103+ counterparts. Peripheral blood GZMK+CXCR6+CD8+ T cells with higher CD122 expression were increased and harbored a gene signature similar to Trm cells in pSS. Consistently, IL-15 was significantly elevated in pSS plasma and showed the capacity to promote differentiation of CD8+ T cells into GZMK+CXCR6+CD8+ T cells in a STAT5-dependent manner. In summary, we depicted the immune profile of pSS and further conducted comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and in vitro experimental investigations to characterize the pathogenic role and differentiation trajectory of CD8+ Trm cells in pSS.
Objective: Based on the functions of immunoregulation and signal transduction, septic peripheral blood sequencing and bioinformatics technology were used to screen potential core targets. Methods: Peripheral blood of 23 patients with sepsis and 10 normal volunteers underwent RNA-seq processing within 24 hours after admission to the hospital. Data quality control and differential gene screening were performed based on R language ( P < 0.01; log2FC ≥ 2). Gene function enrichment analysis was conducted on differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Then, target genes were submitted to STRING to constitute the PPI network, and GSE65682 were used to explore the prognostic relevance of potential core genes. Meta-analysis was used to verify the expression trends of core genes in the sepsis group. Then, cell line localization analysis of core genes in the 5 peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples (normal control = 2; systemic inflammatory response syndrome = 1; SEPSIS = 2) was performed. Results: A total of 1,128 DEGs were obtained between sepsis and normal group, of which 721 were upregulated and 407 downregulated. These DEGs were mainly enriched in leukocyte-mediated cytotoxicity, cell killing regulation, adaptive immune response regulation, lymphocyte-mediated immune regulation, and negative regulation of adaptive immune response. PPI network analysis results showed that CD160, KLRG1, S1PR5, and RGS16 were located in the core area, which are related to adaptive immune regulation, signal transduction, and intracellular components. The above four genes in the core area were found to be related to the prognosis of patients with sepsis, of which RGS16 was negatively correlated with the survival rate, and CD160, KLRG1, and S1PR5 were positively correlated. However, several public data sets showed that CD160, KLRG1, and S1PR5 were all downregulated in the peripheral blood of patients with sepsis, while RGS16 was upregulated in the sepsis group. Single-cell sequencing analysis showed that they were mainly expressed in NK-T cells. Conclusions: CD160, KLRG1, S1PR5, and RGS16 were mainly located in human peripheral blood NK-T cells. Sepsis participants expressed lower levels of S1PR5, CD160, and KLRG1, while sepsis participants expressed higher levels of RGS16. This suggests that they may be potential research targets for sepsis.
Cancer vaccines developed from autologous tumors hold tremendous promise for individualized cancer immunotherapy. Cryoablation-induced in situ autologous antigens are capable of activating systemic immunity with low damage. However, the dissipation of cancer fragments after cryoablation induces poor immunogenicity and short-time maintenance of immunological memory. To solve this challenge, a nanovaccine with functional grippers is proposed to largely enhance the in situ grasping of tumor fragments, combined with an immune adjuvant to further strengthen the immune-therapeutic effect. Herein, maleimide-modified Pluronic F127-chitosan nanoparticles encapsulating Astragalus polysaccharide (AMNPs) are developed. The AMNPs can capture multifarious and immunogenic tumor antigens generated through cryoablation, specifically target lymph nodes and facilitate lysosome escape to activate remote dendritic cells, and modulate T cell differentiation through cross-presentation, thereby breaking the immunosuppressive microenvironment to achieve durable and robust tumor-specific immunity. In the bilateral Lewis lung cancer tumor model, AMNP-mediated cryoablation can significantly regress primary tumors (with a tumor growth inhibition rate of 100%, and a recurrence rate of 0% (30 days) and 16.67% (60 days)), inhibit untreated abscopal tumor growth (a decrease of about 3.84-fold compared with the saline group), and ultimately improve the long-term survival rate (83.33%). Collectively, the development of a lymph-node-targeted in situ cancer-cryoablation-mediated nanovaccine provides a promising approach for personalized cancer immunotherapy against metastatic cancers.
Regulatory T (T reg) cells developing in the thymus are essential to maintain tolerance and prevent fatal autoimmunity in mice and humans. Expression of the T reg lineage-defining transcription factor FoxP3 is critically dependent upon T cell receptor (TCR) and interleukin-2 (IL-2) signaling. Here, we report that ten-eleven translocation (Tet) enzymes, which are DNA demethylases, are required early during double-positive (DP) thymic T cell differentiation and prior to the upregulation of FoxP3 in CD4 single-positive (SP) thymocytes, to promote Treg differentiation. We show that Tet3 selectively controls the development of CD25- FoxP3lo CD4SP Treg cell precursors in the thymus and is critical for TCR-dependent IL-2 production, which drive chromatin remodeling at the FoxP3 locus as well as other Treg-effector gene loci in an autocrine/paracrine manner. Together, our results demonstrate a novel role for DNA demethylation in regulating the TCR response and promoting Treg cell differentiation. These findings highlight a novel epigenetic pathway to promote the generation of endogenous Treg cells for mitigation of autoimmune responses.
AIMS: Adnexal torsion commonly affects reproductive age group females. Prompt diagnosis and early management help in the preservation of fertility. However, its diagnosis is challenging. Preoperative diagnosis can be suspected in only 23-66% of the cases and half of the patients operated for adnexal torsion have different diagnosis. This article thus aims to identify the diagnostic value of preoperative neutrophil lymphocyte ratio in adnexal torsion in comparison with other untwisted unruptured ovarian cysts.METHODS: This was a retrospective study conducted in the duration of five years from 1st January 2016 to 1st January 2020. The data about demographic parameters, hematological parameters, operative approach, operative technique, and histopathological reports were derived from an electronic database and documented on proforma. SPSS was used for statistical analysis. Logistic regression analysis and influence of each factor on preoperative diagnosis of Adnexal torsion was evaluated.RESULTS: A total of 125 patients were included in the article (adnexal torsion group n = 25, untwisted unruptured ovarian cyst group n = 100). There was no statistically significant difference in comparison to age, parity, and abortion between both groups. Most patients had undergone laparoscopic surgery which was based on surgeon's skill and preference. Nineteen (78%) patients in the adnexal torsion group underwent oophorectomy while infarcted ovary was seen in only 4 cases. Among the blood parameters, only neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) >3 was found to be statistically significant under logistic regression analysis. Most common adnexal pathology to undergo torsion was serous cyst.CONCLUSION: Preoperative neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio can be a predictive marker for diagnosis of adnexal torsion and can differentiate it from untwisted unruptured ovarian cysts.
TP53 aberrations, including mutations and deletion of 17p13, are important adverse prognostic markers in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) but are less studied in high count monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (HCMBL), an asymptomatic pre-malignant stage of CLL. Here we estimated the prevalence and impact of TP53 aberrations in 1,230 newly diagnosed treatment-naïve individuals (849 CLL, 381 HCMBL). We defined TP53 state as: wild-type (no TP53 mutations and normal 17p), single-hit (del(17p) or one TP53 mutation), or multi-hit (TP53 mutation and del(17p), TP53 mutation and loss of heterozygosity, or multiple TP53 mutations). Cox regression was used to estimate hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for time to first treatment (TTFT) and overall survival (OS) by TP53 state. We found 64 (7.5%) CLL patients and 17 (4.5%) HCMBL individuals had TP53 mutations with variant allele fraction >10%. Del(17p) was present in 58 (6.8%) of CLL and 11 (2.9%) of HCMBL cases. Most individuals had wild-type (N=1,128, 91.7%) TP53 state, followed by multi-hit (N=55, 4.5%) and then single-hit (N=47, 3.8%) TP53 state. The risk of shorter time to therapy and death increased with the number of TP53 abnormalities. Compared to wild-type patients, multi-hit patients had 3-fold and single-hit patients had 1.5-fold increased risk of requiring therapy. Multi-hit patients also had 2.9-fold increased risk of death compared to wild-type. These results remained stable after accounting for other known poor prognostic factors. Both TP53 mutations and del(17p) may provide important prognostic information for HCMBL and CLL that would be missed if only one were measured.
BACKGROUND: Chronic renal failure is mainly connected with high and low parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels and immunological impairments. The present study aimed to evaluate T helper 17 (Th17) cells as a crucial modulator of the immune system and skeletal homeostasis in hemodialysis patients with impaired intact PTH (iPTH).METHODS: In this research, blood samples were taken from ESRD patients with high (> 300 pg/mL), normal (150-300 pg/mL), and low (< 150 pg/mL) serum intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH( levels (n = 30 in each group). The frequency of Th17 (CD4+ IL17+) cells was evaluated by flow cytometry in each group. The expression levels of Th17 cell-related master transcription factors, cytokines in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), and Th cells, and the level of the mentioned cytokines were determined in the supernatant of PBMCs.RESULTS: The number of Th17 cells remarkably increased in subjects with high iPTH against low and normal iPTH. Also, RORɣt and STAT3 levels were significantly higher in high iPTH ESRD patients than in other groups in the expression of mRNA and protein levels. These findings are confirmed by evaluating the IL-17 and IL-23 in the supernatant of cultured PBMCs and isolated Th cells.CONCLUSION: Our findings indicated that increased serum PTH levels in hemodialysis cases may be involved in increasing the differentiation of CD4 + cells to Th17 cells in PBMC.
BACKGROUND: Lymphocyte enhancer-binding factor-1 (LEF1) is responsible for melanocyte proliferation, migration and differentiation and its downregulation may result in depigmentation in vitiligo. Narrowband UVB (NB-UVB) phototherapy is known to enhance melanocyte migration from hair follicles to lesional epidermis; hence, it may have a role in the upregulation of LEF1.OBJECTIVES: We intended to assess the expression of LEF1 both before and after NB-UVB therapy and correlate it with the extent of re-pigmentation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, 30 patients of unstable non-segmental vitiligo were administered NB-UVB phototherapy for 24 weeks. Skin biopsies were obtained from acral and non-acral sites in all patients, both prior to initiation and after completion of phototherapy and LEF1 expression was measured.RESULTS: Amongst the 16 patients who completed the study, at 24 weeks, all patients achieved > 50% re-pigmentation. However, > 75% re-pigmentation was achieved in only 11.1% of acral patches, whereas it was achieved in a significantly higher number of non-acral patches (66.6%) (p = 0.05). A significant increase was observed in the mean fluorescent intensity of the LEF1 gene in both acral as well as non-acral areas at 24 weeks as compared to baseline (p = 0.0078), However, no difference was observed between acral and non-acral lesions in the LEF1 expression at 24 weeks or the change in LEF1 expression from baseline.CONCLUSION: LEF1 expression modulates the re-pigmentation of vitiligo lesions after treatment with NBUVB phototherapy.
OBJECTIVE: Peptic ulcer disease (PUD) may present with different clinical findings, ranging from mild dyspeptic complaints to mortal complications, such as gastrointestinal system perforation. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential blood parameters that can be used in the diagnosis of PUD and prediction of complications.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 80 patients with dyspeptic complaints, 83 patients with PUD, and 108 patients with peptic ulcer perforation (PUP) who were treated in our hospital between January 2017 and December 2020 were included in the study. Clinical findings, laboratory data, and imaging methods were reviewed retrospectively.RESULTS: The mean age of 271 (154 men, 117 women) patients included in the study was 56.04 ± 17.98 (mean ± standard deviation) years. The neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), mean platelet volume, white blood cell, C-reactive protein, and neutrophil values were higher in patients with PUP compared to other groups (p < 0.001 for all). In the PUD group, only red blood cell distribution width was significantly higher compared to the patient group with dyspeptic complaints. In the postoperative period, NLR and PLR were significantly higher in patients who developed severe complications according to the Clavien-Dindo classification compared to patients who developed mild complications.CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that simple blood parameters can be used as diagnostic markers at different stages of PUD. NLR and PLR can be helpful in the diagnosis of PUP and red blood cell distribution width can be used to differentiate patients with peptic ulcer from dyspeptic patients. Additionally, NLR and PLR can be used to predict serious postoperative complications after PUP surgery.
Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) caused by the larval stage of Echinococcus multilocularis is serious parasitic diseases associated with the host´s immunosuppression. The effects of human non-immune dialyzable leukocyte extract (DLE) on immune cells in blood and spleen and parasitic cysts weight in Balb/c mice after oral (PO), subcutaneous (SC) and intraperitoneal administration (IP) were compared. The reduction in cysts weight (p < 0.01) was recorded after PO route, whereas moderate reduction was found after SC and IP routes. The elevation of lymphoid populations in blood and spleen was found after PO administration (p < 0.01) in parallel with reduced myeloid population. Infection-elicited decline in B220+B cells was partially abolished by PO route, but DLE routes did not influence the CD3+ T cells. The proportions of CD3+CD4+Th lymphocytes were moderately upregulated, whereas CD3+CD8+Tc populations were reduced after all DLE routes (p < 0.01). PO administration increased CD11b+MHCIIhigh blood monocytes, CD11b-SigleF+ cell, but not CD11b+Si-glecF+ eosinophils in the blood, stimulated after SC and IP routes. DLE induced downregulation of NO production by LPS-stimulated adherent splenocytes ex vivo. Con A-triggered T lymphocyte proliferation was associated with the elevated IFN-γ production and transcription factor Tbet mRNA expression. The alleviation of Th2 (IL-4) and Treg (TGF-β) cytokine production by lymphocytes ex vivo paralleled with downregulation of gene transcription for cytokines, GATA and FoxP3. Reduction of myeloid cells with suppressive activity was found. The SC and IP routes affected partially the cysts weights, diminished significantly gene transcription, NO levels and Th2 and Treg cytokines production. Results showed that PO route of DLE administration was the most effective in ameliorating immunosuppression via stimulation of Th1 type, reducing Th2 and Treg type of immunity and CD3+CD8+Tc lymphocytes in the blood and spleens during E. multilocularis infection in mice.
T cell Receptor (TCR) Fusion Construct (TRuC®) T cells harness all signaling subunits of the TCR to activate T cells and eliminate tumor cells, with minimal release of cytokines. While adoptive cell therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells has shown unprecedented clinical efficacy against B-cell malignancies, monotherapy with CAR-T cells has suboptimal clinical efficacy against solid tumors, probably because of the artificial signaling properties of the CAR. TRuC-T cells may address the suboptimal efficacy of existing CAR-T therapies for solid tumors. Here, we report that mesothelin (MSLN)-specific TRuC-T cells (referred to as TC-210 T cells) potently kill MSLN+ tumor cells in vitro and efficiently eradicate MSLN+ mesothelioma, lung, and ovarian cancers in xenograft mouse tumor models. When benchmarked against MSLN-targeted BBζ CAR-T cells (MSLN-BBζ CAR-T cells), TC-210 T cells show an overall comparable level of efficacy; however, TC-210 T cells consistently show faster tumor rejection kinetics that are associated with earlier intratumoral accumulation and earlier signs of activation. Furthermore, in vitro and ex vivo metabolic profiling suggests TC-210 T cells have lower glycolytic activity and higher mitochondrial metabolism than MSLN-BBζ CAR-T cells. These data highlight TC-210 T cells as a promising cell therapy for treating MSLN-expressing cancers. The differentiated profile from CAR-T cells may translate into better efficacy and safety of TRuC-T cells for solid tumors.
Non-hematopoietic lymphoid stromal cells (LSC) maintain lymph node architecture and form niches allowing the migration, activation, and survival of immune cells. Depending on their localization in the lymph node, these cells display heterogeneous properties and secrete various factors supporting the different activities of the adaptive immune response. LSCs participate in the transport of antigen from the afferent lymph as well as in its delivery into the T and B cell zones and organize cell migration via niche-specific chemokines. While marginal reticular cells (MRC) are equipped for initial B-cell priming and T zone reticular cells (TRC) provide the matrix for T cell-dendritic cell interactions within the paracortex, germinal centers (GC) only form when both T- and B cells successfully interact at the T-B border and migrate within the B-cell follicle containing the follicular dendritic cell (FDC) network. Unlike most other LSCs, FDCs are capable of presenting antigen via complement receptors to B cells, which then differentiate within this niche and in proximity to T follicular helper (TFH) cells into memory and plasma cells. LSCs are also implicated in maintenance of peripheral immune tolerance. In mice, TRCs induce the alternative induction of regulatory T cells instead of TFH cells by presenting tissue-restricted self-antigens to naïve CD4 T cells via MHC-II expression. This review explores potential implications of our current knowledge of LSC populations regarding the pathogenesis of humoral immunodeficiency and autoimmunity in patients with autoimmune disorders or common variable immunodeficiency (CVID), the most common form of primary immunodeficiency in humans.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune illness marked by the loss of immune tolerance and the production of autoantibodies against nucleic acids and other nuclear antigens (Ags). B lymphocytes are important in the immunopathogenesis of SLE. Multiple receptors control abnormal B-cell activation in SLE patients, including intrinsic Toll-like receptors (TLRs), B-cell receptors (BCRs), and cytokine receptors. The role of TLRs, notably TLR7 and TLR9, in the pathophysiology of SLE has been extensively explored in recent years. When endogenous or exogenous nucleic acid ligands are recognized by BCRs and internalized into B cells, they bind TLR7 or TLR9 to activate related signalling pathways and thus govern the proliferation and differentiation of B cells. Surprisingly, TLR7 and TLR9 appear to play opposing roles in SLE B cells, and the interaction between them is still poorly understood. In addition, other cells can enhance TLR signalling in B cells of SLE patients by releasing cytokines that accelerate the differentiation of B cells into plasma cells. Therefore, the delineation of how TLR7 and TLR9 regulate the abnormal activation of B cells in SLE may aid the understanding of the mechanisms of SLE and provide directions for TLR-targeted therapies for SLE.
Clinical studies have shown that combination therapy of antibodies targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) significantly improves clinical benefit over PD-1 antibody alone. However, broad application of this combination has been limited by toxicities. Cadonilimab (AK104) is a symmetric tetravalent bispecific antibody with a crystallizable fragment (Fc)-null design. In addition to demonstrating biological activity similar to that of the combination of CTLA-4 and PD-1 antibodies, cadonilimab possess higher binding avidity in a high-density PD-1 and CTLA-4 setting than in a low-density PD-1 setting, while a mono-specific anti-PD-1 antibody does not demonstrate this differential activity. With no binding to Fc receptors, cadonilimab shows minimal antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity, antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis, and interleukin-6 (IL-6)/IL-8 release. These features all likely contribute to significantly lower toxicities of cadonilimab observed in the clinic. Higher binding avidity of cadonilimab in a tumor-like setting and Fc-null design may lead to better drug retention in tumors and contribute to better safety while achieving anti-tumor efficacy.
Author information:(1)Reproductive medicine center, The First Affiliated Hospital, Soochow University, Suzhou 215000, China.(2)Department of Immunology, School of Basic Medicine, Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230061, China.(3)Department of Immunology, School of Basic Medicine, Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230061, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: jiopkuy@aliyun.com.
Head and neck tumors (HNCs) are a common tumor in otorhinolaryngology head and neck surgery, accounting for 5% of all malignant tumors in the body and are the sixth most common malignant tumor worldwide. In the body, immune cells can recognize, kill, and remove HNCs. T cell-mediated antitumor immune activity is the most important antitumor response in the body. T cells have different effects on tumor cells, among which cytotoxic T cells and helper T cells play a major killing and regulating role. T cells recognize tumor cells, activate themselves, differentiate into effector cells, and activate other mechanisms to induce antitumor effects. In this review, the immune effects and antitumor mechanisms mediated by T cells are systematically described from the perspective of immunology, and the application of new immunotherapy methods related to T cells are discussed, with the objective of providing a theoretical basis for exploring and forming new antitumor treatment strategies. Video Abstract.
The CARMA1-Bcl10-MALT1 (CBM) signalosome is a crucial module of NF-κB activation in B cell receptor (BCR) signaling. Biophysical studies have shown that the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRAF6 cooperatively modifies the CBM signalosome; however, the specific details regarding how TRAF6 is involved in BCR signal-induced CBM formation remain unclear. In this study, we aimed to reveal the influences of TRAF6 on CBM formation and TAK1 and IKK activities using DT40 B cells which lack all the exons of TRAF6. In TRAF6-null cells we found: (i) attenuation of TAK1 activity and abolishment of IKK activity and (ii) sustained binding of CARMA1 to Bcl10. To account for the molecular mechanism causing these dynamics, we performed a mathematical model analysis. The mathematical model analysis showed that the regulation of IKK activation by TRAF6 can reproduce TAK1 and IKK activities in TRAF6 null cells, and that the TRAF6 related signal-dependent inhibitor suppresses CARMA1 binding to Bcl10 in wild-type cells. These results suggest that TRAF6 contributes to the positive regulation of IKK activation via TAK1, alongside the negative signal-dependent regulation of CARMA1 binding to Bcl10.
The lymphatic system, or lymphoid system, is one of the components of the circulatory system, and it serves a critical role in both immune function and surplus extracellular fluid drainage. Components of the lymphatic system include lymph, lymphatic vessels and plexuses, lymph nodes, lymphatic cells, and a variety of lymphoid organs. The pattern and form of lymphatic channels are more variable and complex but generally parallel those of the peripheral vascular system. The lymphatic system partly functions to convey lymphatic fluid, or lymph, through a network of lymphatic channels, filter lymphatic fluid through lymph nodes and return lymphatic fluid to the bloodstream, where it is eventually eliminated. Nearly all body organs, regions, and systems have lymphatic channels to collect the various byproducts that require elimination. Liver and intestinal lymphatics produce about 80% of the volume of lymph in the body. Notable territories of the body that do not appear to contain lymphatics include the bone marrow, epidermis, as well as other tissues where blood vessels are absent. The central nervous system was long considered to be absent of lymphatic vessels until they were recently identified in the cranial meninges. Moreover, a vessel appearing to have lymphatic features was also discovered in the eye. The lymphatic system is critical in a clinical context, particularly given that it is a major route for cancer metastasis and that the inflammation of lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes is an indicator of pathology.  Structure The lymphatic system includes numerous structural components, including lymphatic capillaries, afferent lymphatic vessels, lymph nodes, efferent lymphatic vessels, and various lymphoid organs.  Lymphatic capillaries are tiny, thin-walled vessels that originate blindly within the extracellular space of various tissues. Lymphatic capillaries tend to be larger in diameter than blood capillaries and are interspersed among them to enhance their ability to collect interstitial fluid efficiently. They are critical in the drainage of extracellular fluid and allow this fluid to enter the closed capillaries but not exit due to their unique morphology. Lymphatic capillaries at their blind ends are composed of a thin endothelium without a basement membrane. The endothelial cells at the closed end of the capillary overlap but shift to open the capillary end when interstitial fluid pressure is greater than intra-capillary pressure. This process permits lymphocytes, interstitial fluid, bacteria, cellular debris, plasma proteins, and other cells to enter the lymphatic capillaries. Special lymphatic capillaries called lacteals exist in the small intestine to contribute to the absorption of dietary fats. Lymphatics in the liver contribute to a specialized role in transporting hepatic proteins into the bloodstream. The lymphatic capillaries of the body form large networks of channels called lymphatic plexuses and converge to form larger lymphatic vessels. Lymphatic vessels convey lymph, or lymphatic fluid, through their channels. Afferent (toward) lymphatic vessels convey unfiltered lymphatic fluid from the body tissues to the lymph nodes, and efferent (away) lymphatic vessels convey filtered lymphatic fluid from lymph nodes to subsequent lymph nodes or into the venous system. The various efferent lymphatic vessels in the body eventually converge to form two major lymphatic channels: the right lymphatic duct and the thoracic duct.  The right lymphatic duct drains most of the right upper quadrant of the body, including the right upper trunk, right upper extremity, and right head and neck. The right lymphatic trunk is a visible channel in the right cervical region just anterior to the anterior scalene muscle. Its origin and termination are variable in morphology, typically forming as the convergence of the right bronchomediastinal, jugular, and subclavian trunks, extending 1 to 2 centimeters in length before returning its contents to the systemic circulation at the junction of the right internal jugular, subclavian, and/or brachiocephalic veins.  The thoracic duct, also known as the left lymphatic duct or van Hoorne's canal, is the largest of the body's lymphatic channels. It drains most of the body except for the territory of the right superior thorax, head, neck, and upper extremity served by the right lymphatic duct. The thoracic duct is a thin-walled tubular vessel measuring 2 to 6 mm in diameter. The length of the duct ranges from 36 to 45 cm. The thoracic duct is highly variable in form but typically arises in the abdomen at the superior aspect of the cisterna chyli, around the level of the twelfth thoracic vertebra (T12). The cisterna chyli, from which it extends, is an expanded lymphatic sac that forms at the convergence of the intestinal and lumbar lymphatic trunks extending along the L1-L2 vertebral levels. The cisterna chyli is present in approximately 40-60% of the population, and in its absence, the intestinal and lumbar lymphatic trunks communicate directly with the thoracic duct at the T12 level. As a result, the thoracic duct receives lymphatic fluid from the lumbar lymphatic trunks and chyle, composed of lymphatic fluid and emulsified fats, from the intestinal lymphatic trunk. Initially, the thoracic duct is located just to the right of the midline and posterior to the aorta. It exits the abdomen and enters the thorax via the aortic hiatus formed by the right and left crura of the diaphragm, side by side with the aorta. The thoracic duct then ascends in the thoracic cavity just anterior and to the right of the vertebral column between the aorta and azygous vein. At about the level of the fifth thoracic vertebra (T5), the thoracic duct typically crosses to the left of the vertebral column and posterior to the esophagus. From here, it ascends vertically and usually empties its contents into the junction of the left subclavian and left internal jugular veins in the cervical region. To ensure that lymph does not flow backward, collecting lymphatic vessels and larger lymphatic vessels have one-way valves. These valves are not present in the lymphatic capillaries. These lymphatic valves permit the continued advancement of lymph through the lymphatic vessels aided by a pressure gradient created by vascular smooth muscle, skeletal muscle contraction, and respiratory movements. However, it is important to note that lymphatic vessels also communicate with the venous system through various anastomoses. Lymph nodes are small bean-shaped tissues situated along lymphatic vessels. Lymph nodes receive lymphatic fluid from afferent lymphatic vessels and convey lymph away through efferent lymphatic vessels. Lymph nodes serve as a filter and function to monitor lymphatic fluid/blood composition, drain excess tissue fluid and leaked plasma proteins, engulf pathogens, augment an immune response, and eradicate infection. Several organs in the body are considered to be lymphoid or lymphatic organs, given their role in the production of lymphocytes. These include the bone marrow, spleen, thymus, tonsils, lymph nodes, and other tissues. Lymphoid organs can be categorized as primary or secondary lymphoid organs. Primary lymphoid organs are those that produce lymphocytes, such as the bone marrow and thymus. Bone marrow is the primary site for the production of lymphocytes. The thymus is a glandular organ located anterior to the pericardium. It serves to mature and develop T cells, or thymus cell lymphocytes, in response to an inflammatory process or pathology. As individuals age, both their bone marrow and thymus reduce and accumulate fat. Secondary lymphoid organs serve as territories in which immune cells function and include the spleen, tonsils, lymph nodes, and various mucous membranes, such as in the intestines. The spleen is a purplish, fist-sized organ in the left upper abdominal quadrant that contributes to immune function by serving as a blood filter, storing lymphocytes within its white pulp, and being a site for an adaptive immune response to antigens. The lingual tonsils, palatine tonsils, and pharyngeal tonsils, or adenoids, work to prevent pathogens from entering the body. Mucous membranes in the gastrointestinal, respiratory, and genitourinary systems also function to prevent pathogens from entering the body. Lymph Lymphatic fluid, or lymph, is similar to blood plasma and tends to be watery, transparent, and yellowish in appearance. Extracellular fluid leaks out of the blood capillary walls because of pressure exerted by the heart or osmotic pressure at the cellular level. As the interstitial fluid accumulates, it is picked up by the tiny lymphatic capillaries along with other substances to form lymph. This fluid then passes through the lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes and finally enters the venous circulation. As the lymph passes through the lymph nodes, both monocytes and lymphocytes enter it.  Lymph is composed primarily of interstitial fluid with variable amounts of lymphocytes, bacteria, cellular debris, plasma proteins, and other cells. In the GI tract, lymphatic fluid is called chyle and has a milk-like appearance that is chiefly due to the presence of cholesterol, glycerol, fatty acids, and other fat products. The vessels that transport the lymphatic fluid from the GI tract are known as lacteals. Embryology The development of the lymphatic system is known from both human and animal, especially mouse studies. The lymphatic vessels form after the development of blood vessels, around six weeks post-fertilization. The endothelial cells that serve as precursors to the lymphatics arise from the embryonic cardinal veins. The process by which lymphatic vessels form is similar to that of the blood vessels and produces lymphatic-venous and intra-lymphatic anastomoses, but diverse origins exist for components of lymphatic vessel formation in different regions.  Six primary lymph sacs develop and are apparent about eight weeks post-fertilization. These include, from caudal to cranial, one cisterna chyli, one retroperitoneal lymph sac, two iliac lymph sacs, and two jugular lymph sacs. The jugular lymph sacs are the first to develop, initially appearing next to the jugular part of the cardinal vein. Lymphatic vessels then form adjacent to the blood vessels and connect the various lymph sacs. The lymphatic vessels primarily arise from the lymph sacs through the process of self-proliferation and polarized sprouting.  Stem/progenitor cells play a huge role in forming lymphatic tissues and vessels by contributing to sustained growth and postnatally differentiating into lymphatic endothelial cells. Lymphatic channels from the developing gut connect with the retroperitoneal lymph sac and the cisterna chyli, situated just posteriorly. The lymphatic channels of the lower extremities and inferior trunk communicate with the iliac lymph sacs. Finally, lymphatic channels in the head, neck and upper extremities drain to the jugular lymph sacs. Additionally, a right and left thoracic duct form and connect the cisterna chyli with the jugular lymph sacs and form anastomoses that eventually produce the typical adult form. The lymph sacs then produce groups of lymph nodes in the fetal period. Migrating mesenchyme enters the lymph sacs and produces lymphatic networks, connective tissue, and other layers of the lymph nodes.
To assess the safety of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 mRNA BNT162b2 vaccine (Comirnaty®) among patients with the anamnesis of paediatric inflammatory syndrome temporally associated with COVID-19 (PIMS-TS), we conducted a prospective cohort study of 21 patients with history of PIMS (PIMS group, median age 7.4 years, 71% male) and 71 healthy controls without such an anamnesis (CONTROL group, median age 9.0 years, 39% male) aged 5-18 years. Among them, 85 patients (all PIMS patients and 64 CONTROL patients) completed the two dose schedule of vaccination administered 21 days apart and 7 children in the CONTROL group received a single, age appropriate dose of a COVID-19 mRNA BNT162b2 vaccine during the study period. The frequency and character of reported adverse events (AEs) after each dose and results of flow cytometry (FC) 3 weeks after a second dose were compared between those groups. COVID-19 mRNA BNT162b2 vaccine safety profile was very good and comparable in both groups. No severe AEs were observed. 30% of all patients reported some general AE after any vaccine dose and 46% - some local AE. Frequency of reported AEs did not differ between groups except for local hardening at injection site, more common in PIMS group (20% vs 4% after any vaccine dose, p = 0,02). All AEs were benign, general AEs lasted up to 5 days and localised - up to 6 days after a vaccine dose. COVID-19 mRNA BNT162b2 vaccine did not induce any PIMS-like symptoms in any patient. We did not observe any significant T cells or B cells subset abnormalities in the PIMS group compared to the CONTROL group three weeks after a second dose except for terminally differentiated effector memory T cells that were higher in PIMS group (p < 0.0041). To sum up COVID-19 mRNA BNT162b2 vaccine in children with PIMS-TS was safe. Further studies are required to support our findings.
BACKGROUND/AIM: The immune system has a pivotal role in modulating the response to chemotherapy in breast cancer (BC). However, the immune status during chemotherapy remains unclear. We evaluated the sequential changes in peripheral systemic immunity markers in BC patients treated with various chemotherapeutic agents.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We examined the correlation between the peripheral systemic immunity markers, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) and the local cytolytic activity (CYT) score obtained by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction of 84 preoperative BC patients. Next, we observed the sequential changes in the peripheral systemic immunity markers during treatment with four anticancer drugs: oral 5-fluorouracil derivative; S-1, epirubicin plus cyclophosphamide; paclitaxel plus the anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antibody bevacizumab, and eribulin in 172 HER2-negative advanced BC patients. Finally, we examined the correlation between the changes in the peripheral systemic immunity markers, time to treatment failure (TTF) and progression-free survival (PFS).RESULTS: A negative correlation was found between ALC and NLR. ALC-low and NLR-high cases were positively associated with CYT score-low cases. The ratio of ALC-increase and NLR-decrease varies depending on the anticancer drugs used. The responder group (TTF ≥3 months) had a higher NLR-decrease ratio than the nonresponder group (TTF <3 months). Patients with a high NLR-decrease ratio showed higher PFS.CONCLUSION: The change in ALC or NLR varies according to the anticancer drugs, suggesting differential immunomodulatory effects of the drugs. Furthermore, the change in NLR reflects the therapeutic efficacy of chemotherapy in advanced BC.
Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) provide nutrient signals for cell survival and growth. How BCAAs affect CD8+ T cell functions remains unexplored. Herein, we report that accumulation of BCAAs in CD8+ T cells due to the impairment of BCAA degradation in 2C-type serine/threonine protein phosphatase (PP2Cm)-deficient mice leads to hyper-activity of CD8+ T cells and enhanced anti-tumor immunity. CD8+ T cells from PP2Cm-/- mice upregulate glucose transporter Glut1 expression in a FoxO1-dependent manner with more glucose uptake, as well as increased glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation. Moreover, BCAA supplementation recapitulates CD8+ T cell hyper-functions and synergizes with anti-PD-1, in line with a better prognosis in NSCLC patients containing high BCAAs when receiving anti-PD-1 therapy. Our finding thus reveals that accumulation of BCAAs promotes effector function and anti-tumor immunity of CD8+ T cells through reprogramming glucose metabolism, making BCAAs alternative supplementary components to increase the clinical efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy against tumors.
Innate immune cells represent the first line of cellular immunity, comprising both circulating and tissue-resident natural killer cells (NK) and innate lymphoid cells (ILC). These innate lymphocytes arise from a common CD34+ progenitor that differentiates into mature NK and ILCs. The successive stages in NK cell maturation are characterized by increased lineage restriction and changes to phenotype and function. Mechanisms of human NK cell development have not been fully elucidated, especially the role of signals that drive the spatial localization and maturation NK cells. Cytokines, extracellular matrix components, and chemokines provide maturation signals and influence the trafficking of NK cell progenitors to peripheral sites of differentiation. Here we present the latest advances in our understanding of NK and ILC development in peripheral sites, including secondary lymphoid tissues (i.e. tonsil). Recent work in the field has provided a model for the spatial distribution of NK cell and ILC developmental intermediates in tissue and generated further insights into the developmental niche. In support of this model, future studies using multifaceted approaches seek to fully map the developmental trajectory of human NK cells and ILCs in secondary lymphoid tissues.
During embryonic development, several independent generations of hematopoietic cells were identified. They occur in the yolk sac and the intra-embryonic major arteries, in a narrow window of development. They arise sequentially, starting with primitive erythrocytes in the yolk sac blood islands, progressing to less differentiated erythromyeloid progenitors still in the yolk sac, and culminating with multipotent progenitors, some of which will generate the adult hematopoietic stem cell compartment. All these cells contribute to the formation of a layered hematopoietic system that reflects adaptative strategies to the fetal environment and the embryo's needs. It is mostly composed, at these stages, of erythrocytes and tissue-resident macrophages both of yolk sac origin, the latter persisting throughout life. We propose that subsets of lymphocytes of embryonic origin derive from a different intra-embryonic generation of multipotent cells occurring before the emergence of hematopoietic stem cell progenitors. These multipotent cells have a limited lifespan and generate cells that provide basic protection against pathogens before the adaptive immune system is functional, contribute to tissue development and homeostasis, and shape the establishment of a functional thymus. Understanding the properties of these cells will impact the understanding of childhood leukemia and of adult autoimmune pathology and thymic involution.
INTRODUCTION: Diagnosis of poorly differentiated thyroid cancer (PDTC) requires ≥ 50% of poorly differentiated components (PDC) in Japan. However, the optimal cutoff percentage of PDC for PDTC diagnosis remains controversial. Although high neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) correlates with the aggressiveness of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), whether NLR is associated with the proportion of PDC in PTC remains unstudied.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with the pure PTC (n = 664), PTC with < 50% PDC (n = 19), or PTC with ≥ 50% PDC (n = 26) who underwent surgery were retrospectively analyzed. Twelve-year disease-specific survival and preoperative NLR were compared among these groups.RESULTS: Twenty seven patients died from thyroid cancer. The PTC with ≥ 50% PDC group (80.7%) showed significantly worse 12-year disease-specific survival than the pure PTC group (97.2%) (P < 0.001); however, the < 50% PDC group (94.7%) did not (P = 0.91). The PTC with ≥ 50% PDC group had a significantly higher NLR than the pure PTC (P < 0.001) and the PTC with < 50% PDC groups (P < 0.001), whereas there was no significant difference in the NLR between the pure PTC and the PTC with < 50% PDC groups (P = 0.48).CONCLUSIONS: PTC with ≥ 50% PDC is more aggressive than either pure PTC or PTC with < 50% PDC, and NLR potentially reflects the PDC proportion. These results support the validity of 50% PDC as a cut-off for PDTC diagnosis and indicate the utility of NLR as a biomarker for PDC proportion.
Myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen (MNDA) is normally expressed on myelomonocytic cells and a subset of B lymphocytes. It was found to be differentially expressed between nodal marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) and follicular lymphoma (FL). However, MNDA has not been widely used as a diagnostic marker in clinical practice. To validate its utility, we studied the expression of MNDA by immunohistochemistry in 313 cases of small B-cell lymphomas. Our results showed that MNDA was positive in 77.9% of MZL, 21.9% of mantle cell lymphoma, 28.9% of small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 2.6% of FL, and 25% of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. MNDA positivity varied from 68.0% to 84.0% among the 3 MZL subtypes, with extranodal MZL having the highest percentage. There was a statistically significant difference in MNDA expression between MZL and FL, mantle cell lymphoma, small lymphocytic lymphoma/chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. CD43 expression was slightly more frequent in MNDA-negative MZL than in MNDA-positive MZL. Combined use of CD43 and MNDA improved the diagnostic sensitivity for MZL from 77.9% to 87.8%. There was a trend of positive correlation between MNDA and p53 in MZL. In conclusion, MNDA is preferentially expressed in MZL among small B-cell lymphomas and it is a useful marker for the differentiation of MZL and FL.
BACKGROUND: Early diagnosis and effective treatment serve as life-saving procedures for primary immunodeficiencies (PIDs) which are very common and a major public health problem in Turkey. Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) is constitutively a T-cell defect in which naïve T-cell development is defective due to the mutations in genes responsible for the T cell differentiation and insufficient thymopoiesis. So, assessment of thymopoiesis is very important in the diagnosis of SCID and several combined immune deficiencies (CIDs).METHODS: The purpose of this study is to examine thymopoiesis in healthy children via measurement of recent thymic emigrants (RTE); T lymphocytes that express CD4, CD45RA and CD31 to establish the RTE reference values in Turkish children. RTE were measured in the peripheral blood (PB) of 120 healthy infants and children between 0-6 years including cord blood samples, by flow cytometry.RESULTS: The absolute count of RTE cells and their relative ratios were found to be higher during the first year of life, being highest at the 6th month and tending to decrease significantly by age following birth (p=0.001). In the cord blood group, both values were lower than those in the 6-month-old group. The absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) varying by age, was found to reduce to 1850/mm³ in 4-years and after.CONCLUSIONS: Here we evaluated normal thymopoiesis and established the normal reference levels of RTE cells in the peripheral blood of healthy children aged between 0-6 years. We believe that the collected data will contribute to early diagnosis and monitoring of immune reconstitution; serving as an additional fast and reliable marker for many PID patients especially for SCID including many other CIDs, especially in nations where newborn screening (NBS) via T cell receptor excision circles (TREC) has not yet become available.
Comment in    Neuro Oncol. 2023 Apr 29;:
BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has spread continuously. Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), like Kawasaki disease (KD), is a potentially severe illness in children that appears to be a delayed, post-infectious complication of COVID-19. However, based on the relatively low MIS-C prevalence and high KD prevalence in Asian children, the clinical features of MIS-C are not fully recognized, especially after the spread of the Omicron variant. Here, we aimed to identify the clinical characteristics of MIS-C in a country with high KD prevalence.METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 98 children diagnosed with KD and MIS-C admitted to Jeonbuk National University Hospital between January 1, 2021, and October 15, 2022. Twenty-two patients were diagnosed with MIS-C, following CDC diagnostic criteria for MIS-C. We reviewed medical records for clinical features, laboratory findings, and echocardiography.RESULTS: Age, height, and weight were higher for patients with MIS-C than for those with KD. Lymphocytes percentage was lower, and the segmented neutrophil percentage was higher in the MIS-C group. The inflammation marker C-reactive protein was higher in the MIS-C group. Prothrombin time was prolonged in the MIS-C group. Albumin level was lower in the MIS-C group. The MIS-C group had lower potassium, phosphorus, chloride, and total calcium. Twenty-five percent of patients diagnosed with MIS-C had positive RT-PCR, and all the patients were N-type SARS-CoV-2 antibody-positive. Albumin ≤3.85 g/dl effectively predicted MIS-C. Regarding echocardiography, the right coronary artery z-score, the absolute value of apical 4-chamber left ventricle longitudinal strain, and the ejection fraction (EF) was significantly lower in the MIS-C group. A month after diagnosis using echocardiographic data, all coronary artery z-scores had reduced significantly. EF and fractional shortening (FS) also improved one month after diagnosis.CONCLUSION: Albumin values can differentiate MIS-C and KD. In addition, a decrease in the absolute LV longitudinal strain value, EF, and FS was observed in the MIS-C group using echocardiography. Coronary artery dilatation was not evident at the initial diagnosis; however, a change in coronary artery size, EF, and FS was observed on follow-up echocardiography a month after diagnosis.
Kawasaki disease (KD) is an acute, self-limited vasculitis, and the etiology is still unclear. Coronary arterial lesions (CALs) are a major complication of KD. Excessive inflammation and immunologic abnormities are involved in the pathogenesis of KD and CALs. Annexin A3 (ANXA3) plays crucial roles in cell migration and differentiation, inflammation, cardiovascular and membrane metabolic diseases. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of ANXA3 on the pathogenesis of KD and CALs. There were 109 children with KD in the KD group [which was divided into two groups: 67 patients with CALs in the KD-CAL group, and 42 patients with noncoronary arterial lesions (NCALs) in the KD-NCAL group] and 58 healthy children in the control (HC) group. Clinical and laboratory data were retrospectively collected from all patients with KD. The serum concentration of ANXA3 was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). Serum ANXA3 levels were higher in the KD group than in the HC group (P < 0.05). There was a higher concentration of serum ANXA3 in the KD-CAL group than in the KD-NCAL group (P < 0.05). Neutrophil cell counts and serum ANXA3 levels were higher in the KD group than in the HC group (P < 0.05) and quickly decreased when the patients were treated with IVIG after 7 days of illness. Platelet (PLT) counts and ANXA3 levels concurrently exhibited significant increases 7 days after onset. Furthermore, ANXA3 levels were positively correlated with lymphocyte and PLT counts in the KD and KD-CAL groups. ANXA3 may be involved in the pathogenesis of KD and CALs.
BACKGROUND: CD4+ T cells are a critical component of effective immune responses to varicella zoster virus (VZV), but their functional properties during the reactivation acute vs latent phase of infection remain poorly defined.METHODS: Here we assessed the functional and transcriptomic properties of peripheral blood CD4+ T cells in persons with acute herpes zoster (HZ) compared to those with a prior history of HZ infection using multicolor flow cytometry and RNA sequencing.RESULTS: We found significant differences between the polyfunctionality of VZV-specific total memory, effector memory, and central memory CD4+ T cells in acute vs prior HZ. VZV-specific CD4+ memory T-cell responses in acute HZ reactivation had higher frequencies of IFN-γ and IL-2 producing cells compared to those with prior HZ. In addition, cytotoxic markers were higher in VZV-specific CD4+ T cells than non-VZV-specific cells. Transcriptomic analysis of ex vivo total memory CD4+ T cells from these individuals showed differential regulation of T-cell survival and differentiation pathways, including TCR, cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), T helper, inflammation, and MTOR signaling pathways. These gene signatures correlated with the frequency of IFN-γ and IL-2 producing cells responding to VZV.CONCLUSIONS: In summary, VZV-specific CD4+ T cells from acute HZ individuals had unique functional and transcriptomic features, and VZV-specific CD4+ T cells as a group had a higher expression of cytotoxic molecules including Perforin, Granzyme-B, and CD107a.
INTRODUCTION: Sulfavant A (SULF A) is a synthetic derivative of naturally occurring sulfolipids. The molecule triggers TREM2-related maturation of dendritic cells (DCs) and has shown promising adjuvant activity in a cancer vaccine model.METHODS: the immunomodulatory activity of SULF A is tested in an allogeneic mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay based on monocyte-derived dendritic cells and naïve T lymphocytes from human donors. Flow cytometry multiparametric analyses and ELISA assays were performed to characterize the immune populations, T cell proliferation, and to quantify key cytokines.RESULTS: Supplementation of 10 µg/mL SULF A to the co-cultures induced DCs to expose the costimulatory molecules ICOSL and OX40L and to reduce release of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-12. After 7 days of SULF A treatment, T lymphocytes proliferated more and showed increased IL-4 synthesis along with downregulation of Th1 signals such as IFNγ, T-bet and CXCR3. Consistent with these findings, naïve T cells polarized toward a regulatory phenotype with up-regulation of FOXP3 expression and IL-10 synthesis. Flow cytometry analysis also supported the priming of a CD127-/CD4+/CD25+ subpopulation positive for ICOS, the inhibitory molecule CTLA-4, and the activation marker CD69.DISCUSSION: These results prove that SULF A can modulate DC-T cell synapse and stimulate lymphocyte proliferation and activation. In the hyperresponsive and uncontrolled context of the allogeneic MLR, the effect is associated to differentiation of regulatory T cell subsets and dampening of inflammatory signals.
INTRODUCTION: Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) exerts an essential biological role in many processes, including apoptosis, cellular differentiation, growth, and immune responses. However, compared to mammalians, our knowledge of IGFBP5 in teleosts remains limited.METHODS: In this study, TroIGFBP5b, an IGFBP5 homologue from golden pompano (Trachinotus ovatus) was identified. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to check its mRNA expression level in healthy condition and after stimulation. In vivo overexpression and RNAi knockdown method were performed to evaluate the antibacterial profile. We constructed a mutant in which HBM was deleted to better understand the mechanism of its role in antibacterial immunity. Subcellular localization and nuclear translocation were verified by immunoblotting. Further, proliferation of head kidney lymphocytes (HKLs) and phagocytic activity of head kidney macrophages (HKMs) were detected through CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry. Immunofluorescence microscopy assay (IFA) and dual luciferase reporter (DLR) assay were used to evaluate the activity in nuclear factor-κB (NF-κβ) pathway.RESULTS: The TroIGFBP5b mRNA expression level was upregulated after bacterial stimulation. In vivo, TroIGFBP5b overexpression significantly improved the antibacterial immunity of fish. In contrast, TroIGFBP5b knockdown significantly decreased this ability. Subcellular localization results showed that TroIGFBP5b and TroIGFBP5b-δHBM were both present in the cytoplasm of GPS cells. After stimulation, TroIGFBP5b-δHBM lost the ability to transfer from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. In addition, rTroIGFBP5b promoted the proliferation of HKLs and phagocytosis of HKMs, whereas rTroIGFBP5b-δHBM, suppressed these facilitation effects. Moreover, the in vivo antibacterial ability of TroIGFBP5b was suppressed and the effects of promoting expression of proinflammatory cytokines in immune tissues were nearly lost after HBM deletion. Furthermore, TroIGFBP5b induced NF-κβ promoter activity and promoted nuclear translocation of p65, while these effects were inhibited when the HBM was deleted.DISCUSSION: Taken together, our results suggest that TroIGFBP5b plays an important role in golden pompano antibacterial immunity and activation of the NF-κβ signalling pathway, providing the first evidence that the HBM of TroIGFBP5b plays a critical role in these processes in teleosts.
Necrotizing fasciitis is a rapidly progressive infection with a high mortality rate. Pathogens evade the host containment and bactericidal mechanisms by hijacking the coagulation and inflammation signaling pathways, leading to their rapid dissemination, thrombosis, organ dysfunction, and death. This study examines the hypothesis that measures of immunocoagulopathy upon admission could aid in the identification of patients with necrotizing fasciitis at high risk for in-hospital mortality.METHODS: Demographic data, infection characteristics, and laboratory values from 389 confirmed necrotizing fasciitis cases from a single institution were analyzed. A multivariable logistic regression model was built on admission immunocoagulopathy measures (absolute neutrophil, absolute lymphocyte, and platelet counts) and patient age to predict in-hospital mortality.RESULTS: The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 19.8% for the 389 cases and 14.6% for the 261 cases with complete measures of immunocoagulopathy on admission. A multivariable logistic regression model indicated that platelet count was the most important predictor of mortality, followed by age and absolute neutrophil count. Greater age, higher neutrophil count, and lower platelet count led to significantly higher risk of mortality. The model discriminated well between survivors and non-survivors, with an overfitting-corrected C-index of 0.806.CONCLUSIONS: This study determined that measures of immunocoagulopathy and patient age at admission effectively prognosticated the in-hospital mortality risk of patients with necrotizing fasciitis. Given the accessibility of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and platelet count measurements determined from a simple complete blood-cell count with differential, future prospective studies examining the utility of these measures are warranted.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
Mucosal surfaces are in contact with the external environment and protect the body from infection by various microbes. To prevent infectious diseases at the first line of defense, the establishment of pathogen-specific mucosal immunity by mucosal vaccine delivery is needed. Curdlan, a 1,3-β-glucan has a strong immunostimulatory effect when delivered as a vaccine adjuvant. Here, we investigated whether intranasal administration of curdlan and antigen (Ag) could induce sufficient mucosal immune responses and protect against viral infections. Intranasal co-administration of curdlan and OVA increased OVA-specific IgG and IgA Abs in both serum and mucosal secretions. In addition, intranasal co-administration of curdlan and OVA induced the differentiation of OVA-specific Th1/Th17 cells in the draining lymph nodes. To investigate the protective immunity of curdlan against viral infection, intranasal co-administration of curdlan with recombinant VP1 of EV71 C4a was administered and showed enhanced protection against enterovirus 71 in a passive serum transfer model using neonatal hSCARB2 mice, although intranasal administration of VP1 plus curdlan increased VP1-specific helper T cells responses but not mucosal IgA. Next, Mongolian gerbils were intranasally immunized with curdlan plus VP1, and they had effective protection against EV71 C4a infection, while decreasing viral infection and tissue damage by inducing Th17 responses. These results indicated that intranasal curdlan with Ag improved Ag-specific protective immunity by enhancing mucosal IgA and Th17 against viral infection. Our results suggest that curdlan is an advantageous candidate as a mucosal adjuvant and delivery vehicle for the development of mucosal vaccines.
Oral administration of lentinan ameliorated dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis through Dectin-1 receptor on intestinal epithelial cells. However, it is unclear where lentinan affects in the intestine to prevent the inflammation. We found that the administration of lentinan has induced migration of CD4+ cells from the ileum to the colon by using Kikume Green-Red (KikGR) mice in this study. This result suggests that the oral lentinan treatment could accelerate the migration of Th cells in lymphocyte from ileum into the colon during lentinan intake. Then, C57BL/6 mice were administered 2% DSS to induce colitis. The mice were administered lentinan daily via oral or rectal route before DSS administration. Its rectal administration also suppressed DSS-induced colitis, but its suppressive effects were lower compared to when orally administered, indicating that the biological responses to lentinan in the small intestine contributed to the anti-inflammatory effects. In normal mice (without DSS treatment), the expression of Il12b was significantly increased in the ileum by the oral administration of lentinan, but not by rectal one. On the other hand, no change was observed in the colon by either administration method. In addition, Tbx21 was significantly increased in the ileum. These suggested that IL-12 was increased in the ileum and Th1 cells differentiated in dependence on it. Therefore, Th1 predominant condition in the ileum could influence immunity in the colon and improve the colitis.
The thymus is the crucial tissue where thymocytes develop from hematopoietic precursors that originate from the bone marrow and differentiate to generate a repertoire of mature T cells able to respond to foreign antigens while remaining tolerant to self-antigens. Until recently, most of the knowledge on thymus biology and its cellular and molecular complexity have been obtained through studies in animal models, because of the difficulty to gain access to thymic tissue in humans and the lack of in vitro models able to faithfully recapitulate the thymic microenvironment. This review focuses on recent advances in the understanding of human thymus biology in health and disease obtained through the use of innovative experimental techniques (eg. single cell RNA sequencing, scRNAseq), diagnostic tools (eg. next generation sequencing), and in vitro models of T-cell differentiation (artificial thymic organoids) and thymus development (eg. thymic epithelial cell differentiation from embryonic stem cells or induced pluripotent stem cells).
Hypertension (HT) is among the most common cardiovascular diseases in the world and is an important risk factor for stroke, myocardial infarction, heart failure, and kidney failure. Recent studies have demonstrated that activation of the immune system plays an important role in the occurrence and maintenance of HT. Thus, this research aimed to determine the immune-related biomarkers in HT. In this study, RNA sequencing data of the gene expression profiling datasets (GSE74144) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differentially expressed genes between HT and normal samples were identified using the software limma. The immune-related genes associated with HT were screened. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were performed using the program "clusterProfiler" of the R package. The protein-protein interaction network of these differentially expressed immune-related genes (DEIRGs) was constructed based on the information from the STRING database. Finally, the TF-hub and miRNA-hub gene regulatory networks were predicted and constructed using the miRNet software. Fifty-nine DEIRGs were observed in HT. The Gene Ontology analysis indicated that DEIRGs were mainly enriched in the positive regulation of cytosolic calcium ions, peptide hormones, protein kinase B signaling, and lymphocyte differentiation. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis indicated that these DEIRGs were significantly involved in the intestinal immune network for IgA production, autoimmune thyroid disease, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, hepatocellular carcinoma, and Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus infection, among others. From the protein-protein interaction network, 5 hub genes (insulin-like growth factor 2, cytokine-inducible Src homology 2-containing protein, suppressor of cytokine signaling 1, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A, and epidermal growth factor receptor) were identified. The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed in GSE74144, and all genes with an area under the curve of > 0.7 were identified as the diagnostic genes. Moreover, miRNA-mRNA and TF-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. Our study identified 5 immune-related hub genes in patients with HT and demonstrated that they were potential diagnostic biomarkers for HT.
Update of    doi: 10.1101/2022.10.03.510595.
Group 1 innate lymphocytes are heterogeneous, and their ontogeny and function remain ambiguous. Here, we describe a protocol to measure cell ontogeny and effector functions of natural killer (NK) and ILC1 subsets based on current understanding of their differentiation pathways. We use cre drivers to genetically fate-map cells, tracking plasticity between mature NK and ILC1. We describe innate lymphoid cell precursor transfer studies that determine ontogeny of granzyme-C-expressing ILC1. Additionally, we detail in vitro killing assays that test cytolytic potential of ILC1s. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Nixon et al. (2022).1.
BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a persistent and systemic autoimmunity disease. The abnormal differentiation of Treg cells is important in pathogenesis. Despite previous studies showed that microRNAs (miRNAs, miR) are pivotal modulators of Treg cells, the effect of miRNAs on Treg cell differentiation and function is not clear. Our study wants to reveal the relationship of miR-143-3p with the differentiative ability and biofunction of Treg cells during the development of RA.METHODS: The Expressing level of miR-143-3p and cell factor generation in peripheral blood (PB) of RA sufferers were identified by ELISA or RT-qPCR. The roles of miR-143-3p in Treg cell differentiation were studied via ShRNA/lentivirus transfection. Male DBA/1 J mice were separated into control, model, control mimics, and miR-143-3p mimics groups to analyze the anti-arthritis efficacy, the differentiative ability of Treg cells, and the expression level of miR-143-3p.RESULTS: Our team discovered that the Expressing level of miR-143-3p was related to RA disease activities in a negative manner, and remarkably related to antiinflammation cell factor IL-10. In vitro, the expression of miR-143-3p in the CD4+ T cells upregulated the percentage of CD4+ CD25+ Fxop3+ cells (Tregs) and forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3) mRNA expression. Evidently, miR-143-3p mimic intervention considerably upregulated the content of Treg cells in vivo, validly avoided CIA progression, and remarkably suppressed the inflammatory events of joints in mice.CONCLUSION: Our findings indicated that miR-143-3p could ameliorate CIA through polarizing naive CD4+ T cells into Treg cells, which may be a novel strategy to treat autoimmune diseases such as RA.
BACKGROUND: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA seronegative (Sero-) and seropositive (Sero+) nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) are distinctly different disease subtypes. Patients with higher baseline EBV DNA titers seem to benefit less from anti-PD1 immunotherapy, but underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Tumor microenvironment (TME) characteristics could be the important factor affecting the efficacy of immunotherapy. Here, we illuminated the distinct multicellular ecosystems of EBV DNA Sero- and Sero+ NPCs from cellular compositional and functional perspectives at single-cell resolution.METHOD: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing analyses of 28,423 cells from ten NPC samples and one non-tumor nasopharyngeal tissue. The markers, function, and dynamics of related cells were analyzed.RESULTS: We found that tumor cells from EBV DNA Sero+ samples exhibit low-differentiation potential, stronger stemness signature, and upregulated signaling pathways associated with cancer hallmarks than that of EBV DNA Sero- samples. Transcriptional heterogeneity and dynamics in T cells were associated with EBV DNA seropositivity status, indicating different immunoinhibitory mechanisms employed by malignant cells depending on EBV DNA seropositivity status. The low expression of classical immune checkpoints, early-triggered cytotoxic T-lymphocyte response, global activation of IFN-mediated signatures, and enhanced cell-cell interplays cooperatively tend to form a specific immune context in EBV DNA Sero+ NPC.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, we illuminated the distinct multicellular ecosystems of EBV DNA Sero- and Sero+ NPCs from single-cell perspective. Our study provides insights into the altered tumor microenvironment of NPC associated with EBV DNA seropositivity, which will help direct the development of rational immunotherapy strategies.
BACKGROUND: Humoral immunity depends on the differentiation of B cells into antibody secreting cells (ASCs). Excess or inappropriate ASC differentiation can lead to antibody-mediated autoimmune diseases, while impaired differentiation results in immunodeficiency.METHODS: We have used CRISPR/Cas9 technology in primary B cells to screen for regulators of terminal differentiation and antibody production.RESULTS: We identified several new positive (Sec61a1, Hspa5) and negative (Arhgef18, Pold1, Pax5, Ets1) regulators that impacted on the differentiation process. Other genes limited the proliferative capacity of activated B cells (Sumo2, Vcp, Selk). The largest number of genes identified in this screen (35) were required for antibody secretion. These included genes involved in endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation and the unfolded protein response, as well as post-translational protein modifications.DISCUSSION: The genes identified in this study represent weak links in the antibody-secretion pathway that are potential drug targets for antibody-mediated diseases, as well as candidates for genes whose mutation results in primary immune deficiency.
The importance of the immune microenvironment in ovarian cancer progression, metastasis, and response to therapies has become increasingly clear, especially with the new emphasis on immunotherapies. To leverage the power of patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models within a humanized immune microenvironment, three ovarian cancer PDXs were grown in humanized NBSGW (huNBSGW) mice engrafted with human CD34+ cord blood-derived hematopoietic stem cells. Analysis of cytokine levels in the ascites fluid and identification of infiltrating immune cells in the tumors demonstrated that these humanized PDX (huPDX) established an immune tumor microenvironment similar to what has been reported for patients with ovarian cancer. The lack of human myeloid cell differentiation has been a major setback for humanized mouse models, but our analysis shows that PDX engraftment increases the human myeloid population in the peripheral blood. Analysis of cytokines within the ascites fluid of huPDX revealed high levels of human M-CSF, a key myeloid differentiation factor as well as other elevated cytokines that have previously been identified in ovarian cancer patient ascites fluid including those involved in immune cell differentiation and recruitment. Human tumor-associated macrophages and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes were detected within the tumors of humanized mice, demonstrating immune cell recruitment to tumors. Comparison of the three huPDX revealed certain differences in cytokine signatures and in the extent of immune cell recruitment. Our studies show that huNBSGW PDX models reconstitute important aspects of the ovarian cancer immune tumor microenvironment, which may recommend these models for preclinical therapeutic trials.SIGNIFICANCE: huPDX models are ideal preclinical models for testing novel therapies. They reflect the genetic heterogeneity of the patient population, enhance human myeloid differentiation, and recruit immune cells to the tumor microenvironment.
Leptin, the adipocyte-derived hormone, involved in regulating food intake and body weight, plays an important role in immunity and reproduction. Leptin signals via the specific membrane receptors expressed in most types of immune cells including dendritic cells (DCs) and thymocytes. Leptin enhances thymopoiesis and modulates T-cell-mediated immunity. Thymic plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) are predominated in the thymus. They play an important role in thymocyte differentiation. We have analyzed whether leptin mediates its effects on human thymocytes by influencing on pDCs. We used leptin at concentration corresponding to its level during II-III trimesters of physiological pregnancy. We cultivated leptin-primed pDCs with autologous thymocytes and estimated the main thymocyte subsets expressing αβ chains of the T-cell receptor (αβTCR), natural regulatory T-cells (tTreg), natural T-helpers producing interleukin-17 (nTh17) and invariant natural killer T-cells (iNKT) in vitro. We have shown that leptin augmented CD86, CD276 expressions and depressed IL-10 productions by pDCs. Leptin-primed pDCs decreased the percentage of CD4+CD8+αβTCR+ thymocytes, increased CD4hiCD8-/loαβTCR+ cells. pDCs cultivated with leptin decreased the number of iNKT precursors, and did not change the number of tTreg and nTh17 precursors. Thus, leptin's important role in regulation of thymic pDC abilities to influence on the thymocyte distribution was indicated in vitro.
The regulatory T (Treg) and T helper 17 (Th17) cells modulate the immune response in chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection by promoting immune tolerance and restricting liver damage or stimulating inflammatory response and rendering hepatocyte injury. These cells act through signaling transcription factors and secreting cytokines. We aimed to observe the percentages of Treg, Th17 cells, and their messenger RNA (mRNA) level of forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3) and retinoid orphan receptor γt (RORγt) in the chronic hepatitis B (CHB)-infected group and CHB patients with hepatitis flare (HF). We recruited 103 participants, including 88 CHB-infected cases and 15 healthy controls (HCs) in Ho Chi Minh City. CHB cases were enrolled into two groups: HBeAg+ CHB infection (e+CHBI; n = 42) and HF (including 20 mild HF and 26 severe HF [sHF]). The Foxp3(+)Treg and Th17 cells were measured by flow cytometry. The mRNA levels of Foxp3 and RORγt were analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. The percentages of Foxp3(+)Treg, of Th17, and the Foxp3(+)Treg/Th17 ratio were significantly higher in the sHF compared to the e+CHBI group. The sHF and e+CHBI groups had significantly higher mRNA levels of Foxp3 and RORγt compared to the HC group. Furthermore, a special subset, interleukin 17A(+)Foxp3(+)Treg cells, were observed with a significantly higher percentage in the sHF compared to the e+CHBI group. This finding revealed the contributions of this new subset on the severe flare cases. Our results explained the diversity of T cells and their subsets in the immune response in CHB. This subset should be further investigated as a specific tool in HBV immune response.
Aerobic glycolysis, a metabolic pathway essential for effector T cell survival and proliferation, regulates differentiation of autoimmune T helper (Th) 17 cells, but the mechanism underlying this regulation is largely unknown. Here, we identify a glycolytic intermediate metabolite, phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), as a negative regulator of Th17 differentiation. PEP supplementation or inhibition of downstream glycolytic enzymes in differentiating Th17 cells increases intracellular PEP levels and inhibits interleukin (IL)-17A expression. PEP supplementation inhibits expression of signature molecules for Th17 and Th2 cells but does not significantly affect glycolysis, cell proliferation, or survival of T helper cells. Mechanistically, PEP binds to JunB and inhibits DNA binding of the JunB/basic leucine zipper transcription factor ATF-like (BATF)/interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) complex, thereby modulating the Th17 transcriptional program. Furthermore, daily administration of PEP to mice inhibits generation of Th17 cells and ameliorates Th17-dependent autoimmune encephalomyelitis. These data demonstrate that PEP links aerobic glycolysis to the Th17 transcriptional program, suggesting the therapeutic potential of PEP for autoimmune diseases.
Skeletal muscle is a complex heterogeneous tissue and characterizing its cellular heterogeneity and transcriptional and epigenetic signatures are important for understanding the details of its ontogeny. In our study, we applied scRNA-seq and scATAC-seq to investigate the cell types, molecular features, transcriptional and epigenetic regulation, and patterns of developing bovine skeletal muscle from gestational, lactational and adult stages. Detailed molecular analyses were used to dissect cellular heterogeneity, and we deduced the differentiation trajectory of myogenic cells and uncovered their dynamic gene expression profiles. SCENIC analysis was performed to demonstrate key regulons during cell fate decisions. We explored the future expression states of these heterogeneous cells by RNA velocity analysis and found extensive networks of intercellular communication using the toolkit CellChat. Moreover, the transcriptomic and chromatin accessibility modalities were confirmed to be highly concordant, and integrative analysis of chromatin accessibility and gene expression revealed key transcriptional regulators acting during myogenesis. In bovine skeletal muscle, by scRNA-seq and scATAC-seq analysis, different cell types such as adipocytes, endothelial cells, fibroblasts, lymphocytes, monocytes, pericyte cells and eight skeletal myogenic subpopulations were identified at the three developmental stages. The pseudotime trajectory exhibited a distinct sequential ordering for these myogenic subpopulations and eight distinct gene clusters were observed according to their expression pattern. Moreover, specifically expressed TFs (such as MSC, MYF5, MYOD1, FOXP3, ESRRA, BACH1, SIX2 and ATF4) associated with muscle development were predicted, and likely future transcriptional states of individual cells and the developmental dynamics of differentiation among neighbouring cells were predicted. CellChat analysis on the scRNA-seq data set then classified many ligand-receptor pairs among these cell clusters, which were further categorized into significant signalling pathways, including BMP, IGF, WNT, MSTN, ANGPTL, TGFB, TNF, VEGF and FGF. Finally, scRNA-seq and scATAC-seq results were successfully integrated to reveal a series of specifically expressed TFs that are likely to be candidates for the promotion of cell fate transition during bovine skeletal muscle development. Overall, our results outline a single-cell dynamic chromatin/transcriptional landscape for normal bovine skeletal muscle development; these provide an important resource for understanding the structure and function of mammalian skeletal muscle, which will promote research into its biology.
In recent years, great strides have been made toward the development of immune cell-based therapies in the treatment of refractory malignancies. Primary T cells and NK cells armed with chimeric antigen receptors have achieved tremendous clinical success especially in patients with leukaemia and lymphoma. However, the autologous origin of these effector cells means that a single batch of laboriously engineered cells treats only a certain patient, leading to high cost, ununiform product quality, and risk of delay in treatment, and therefore results in restricted accessibility of these therapies to the overwhelming majority of the patients. Addressing these tricky obstacles calls for the development of universal immune cell products that can be provided 'off the shelf' in a large amount. Pluripotent stem cells (PSCs), owing to their unique capacity of self-renewal and the potential of multi-lineage differentiation, offer an unlimited cell source to generate uniform and scalable engineered immune cells. This review discusses the major advances in the development of PSC-derived immune cell differentiation approaches and their therapeutic potential in treating both hematologic malignancies and solid tumours. We also consider the potency of PSC-derived immune cells as an alternative therapeutic strategy for other diseases, such as autoimmune diseases, fibrosis, infections, et al.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a respiratory tract infection caused by the new severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). An adequate T cell response is essential not only for fighting disease but also for the creation of immune memory. Thus, the present study aims to evaluate the T cells of patients with moderate, severe and critical COVID-19 not only at the time of illness but also 2 months after diagnosis to observe whether changes in this compartment persist. In this study, 166 COVID-19 patients were stratified into moderate/severe and critical disease categories. The maturation and activation of T cells were evaluated through flow cytometry. In addition, Treg cells were analysed. Until 15 days after diagnosis, patients presented a reduction in absolute and relative T lymphocyte counts. After 2 months, in moderate/severe patients, the counts returned to a similar level as that of the control group. In convalescent patients who had a critical illness, absolute T lymphocyte values increased considerably. Patients with active disease did not show differentiation of T cells. Nonetheless, after 2 months, patients with critical COVID-19 showed a significant increase in CD4+ EMRA (CD45RA+ effector memory) T lymphocytes. Furthermore, COVID-19 patients showed delayed T cell activation and reduced CD8+ suppressor T cells even 2 months after diagnosis. A reduction in CD4+ Treg cells was also observed, and their numbers returned to a similar level as that of healthy controls in convalescent patients. The results demonstrate that COVID-19 patients have a delayed activation and differentiation of T cells. In addition, these patients have a great reduction of T cells with a suppressor phenotype.
Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD) is a rare non-Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) that results in multiorgan disease involving the skin, bones, lungs, and kidneys. Female reproductive system manifestation of ECD was rare. Herein, we report a case of ECD involving the left ovary and fallopian tube. A 69-year-old woman presented with abdominal pain for 20 days. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a solid and cystic mass on the left pelvic cavity. Histological examination revealed ovarian and fallopian tube infiltration by abundant histiocytes, with single small nuclei and foamy cytoplasm, reactive small lymphocytes, and plasma cells. Based on histopathological and immunohistochemical findings of positivity for CD68, CD163, and BRAF V600E and negativity for CD1α and S100, the molecular finding of BRAF V600E mutation, the patient was diagnosed with ECD. Positron emission tomography examination did not reveal any other lesions. The patient recovered well 12 months after surgery without any treatment. ECD involving the left fallopian tube and ovary was rare and needed to be differentiated from LCH, Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD), juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG), IgG4+-related disease (IgG4+RD), and metastatic signet ring cell carcinoma.
Immune tolerance deletes or suppresses autoreactive lymphocytes and is established at multiple levels during the development, activation and effector phases of T and B cells. These mechanisms are cell-intrinsically programmed and critical in preventing autoimmune diseases. We have witnessed the existence of another type of immune tolerance mechanism that is shaped by lifestyle choices, such as diet, microbiome and microbial metabolites. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are the most abundant microbial metabolites in the colonic lumen and are mainly produced by the microbial fermentation of prebiotics, such as dietary fiber. This review focuses on the preventive and immunomodulatory effects of SCFAs on autoimmunity. The tissue- and disease-specific effects of dietary fiber, SCFAs and SCFA-producing microbes on major types of autoimmune diseases, including type I diabetes, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, are discussed. Additionally, their key regulatory mechanisms for lymphocyte development, tissue barrier function, host metabolism, immunity, autoantibody production, and inflammatory effector and regulatory lymphocytes are discussed. The shared and differential effects of SCFAs on different types and stages of autoimmune diseases are discussed.
Kawasaki disease (KD) is a febrile disease that affects children under 5 years of age and leads to serious cardiovascular complications such as coronary artery disease. The development of markers that can predict early is important to reduce the under- and misdiagnosis of KD. The aim of this research was to develop a diagnostic predictive model to differentiate Kawasaki disease (KD) from other febrile diseases using eosinophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (ELR) and other biomarkers. We recruited a total of 190 children with KD and 1604 children with other febrile diseases. We retrospectively collected clinical information from the children, which included laboratory data on the day of admission, such as white blood cells (WBC), hemoglobin (HGB), calcitoninogen (PCT), hypersensitive c-reactive protein (CRP), snake prognostic nutritional index (PNI), peripheral blood neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and ELR. We performed analyses using univariate analysis, multivariate logistic regression, and column line plots, and evaluated the diagnostic parameters of the predictive models. ELR was significantly increased in patients with KD. After multivariate logistic regression, WBC, HGB, CRP, NLR, ELR and PNI were finally included as indicators for constructing the prediction model. The ROC curve analysis suggested that the C-index of the diagnostic prediction model was 0.921. The calibration curve showed good diagnostic performance of the columnar graph model. The cut-off value of ELR alone for KD was 0.04, the area under the ROC curve was 0.809. Kids with KD show highly expressive level of ELR compared to children with febrile disease, which can be used to diagnose KD, and column line graphs constructed together with other indicators can help pediatricians to identify KD more effectively from febrile children.
Engagement of the inhibitory T cell receptor programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) associates with dysfunctional states of pathogen- or tumor-specific T cells. Accordingly, systemic antibody-mediated blockade of PD-1 has become a central target for immunotherapies but is also associated with severe toxicities due to loss of peripheral tolerance. Therefore, selective ablation of PD-1 expression on adoptively transferred T cells through direct genetic knockout (KO) is currently being explored as an alternative therapeutic approach. However, since PD-1 might also be required for the regulation of physiological T cell function and differentiation, the suitability of PD-1 as an engineering target is controversial. In this study, we systematically investigated the maintenance of T cell functionality after CRISPR/Cas9-mediated PD-1 KO in vivo during and after acute and chronic antigen encounter. Under all tested conditions, PD-1 ablation preserved the persistence, differentiation, and memory formation of adoptively transferred receptor transgenic T cells. Functional PD-1 KO T cells expressing chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) targeting CD19 could be robustly detected for over 390 d in a syngeneic immunocompetent mouse model, in which constant antigen exposure was provided by continuous B cell renewal, representing the longest in vivo follow-up of CAR-T cells described to date. PD-1 KO CAR-T cells showed no evidence for malignant transformation during the entire observation period. Our data demonstrate that genetic ablation of PD-1 does not impair functionality and longevity of adoptively transferred T cells per se and therefore may be pursued more generally in engineered T cell-based immunotherapy to overcome a central immunosuppressive axis.
CD8+ exhausted T cells (Tex) are heterogeneous. PD-1 inhibitors reinvigorate progenitor Tex, which subsequently differentiate into irresponsive terminal Tex. The ability to maintain a capacity for durable proliferation of progenitor Tex is important, but the mechanism remains unclear. Here, we showed CD8+ progenitor Tex pretreated with decitabine, a low-dose DNA demethylating agent, had enhanced proliferation and effector function against tumors after anti-PD-1 treatment in vitro. Treatment with decitabine plus anti-PD-1 promoted the activation and expansion of tumor-infiltrated CD8+ progenitor Tex and efficiently suppressed tumor growth in multiple tumor models. Transcriptional and epigenetic profiling of tumor-infiltrated T cells demonstrated that the combination of decitabine plus anti-PD-1 markedly elevated the clonal expansion and cytolytic activity of progenitor Tex compared with anti-PD-1 monotherapy and restrained CD8+ T cell terminal differentiation. Strikingly, decitabine plus anti-PD-1 sustained the expression and activity of the AP-1 transcription factor JunD, which was reduced following PD-1 blockade therapy. Downregulation of JunD repressed T cell proliferation, and activation of JNK/AP-1 signaling in CD8+ T cells enhanced the antitumor capacity of PD-1 inhibitors. Together, epigenetic agents remodel CD8+ progenitor Tex populations and improve responsiveness to anti-PD-1 therapy.
Mismatch repair (MMR) protein expression in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells is usually homogeneously retained or lost. Rare lesions may show a heterogeneous pattern of MMR protein expression. We evaluated MMR protein expression (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2) in 200 CRCs, identifying 3 groups with proficient MMR protein expression (MMRp), deficient MMR protein expression (MMRd), and heterogeneous MMR protein expression (MMRh). MMRh tumors were microdissected on the basis of the expression of the heterogeneous marker. DNA was extracted and subjected to targeted sequencing. RNA was purified from bulk tumors of all MMRh cases and in a control series of 15 MMRp and 10 MMRd CRCs and analyzed using the PanCancer IO 360 Panel (NanoString Technologies). Twenty-nine of the 200 cases (14.5%) were MMRd. Nine cases (4.5%) showed a heterogeneous pattern of MMR expression, with 6 tumors harboring concomitant loss of one of the other MMR proteins, thus featuring areas with double loss at immunohistochemistry (IHC) testing (MMRh double-loss cases). Four of the 6 MMRh double-loss cases were suitable for a separate sequence variant analysis of IHC double-negative and IHC single-negative components of the tumor. In all lesions, both components exhibited a high tumor mutation burden (TMB). Nevertheless, a significant increase in TMB in the double-negative components was observed (mean TMB: negative, 70 mut/Mb vs positive, 59 mut/Mb) because of a higher number of subclonal variants compared with the other component. Comparative gene expression analyses among MMRd, MMRp, and MMRh CRCs highlighted differential gene expression patterns and an increased number of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in MMRh lesions, which is also characterized by a substantial population of exhausted CD8+ lymphocytes. We describe a unique subgroup of CRCs showing heterogeneous expression of MMR proteins in a background of concomitant loss of one of the other markers.
BACKGROUND: Differentiating uterine LMS from uterine leiomyoma is difficult. Therefore, this study aimed to compare preoperative NLR of uterine leiomyosarcoma (LMS) with leiomyoma and secondary objective aimed to identify the clinical characteristics to distinguish between uterine LMS and uterine leiomyoma including the appropriate NLR cut off value to differentiate LMS from leiomyoma.METHODS: This was a matched case-controlled study with 1:4 ratio. We collected data of patients with uterine LMS and leiomyoma from 2011 to 2020 at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital. Patients with uterine LMS (case group) and leiomyoma (control group) were matched in terms of year of the surgery and size of the uterine mass. Statistical analysis was conducted using SPSS version 22.0 and STATA version 17. Conditional logistic regression analysis with a p-value of <0.05 was used.RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients who were diagnosed with uterine LMS met the inclusion criteria; 13 patients who had incomplete data and one patient who was had concurrent breast cancer were excluded. Thirteen patients were included in the final analysis. From 2,587 patients in control group; 52 patients were matched. The baseline characteristics in both groups were comparable except for menopausal status Women with uterine LMS had a higher NLR than those with leiomyoma (mean, 4.56 ± 2.5 and 2.4 ± 1.15 in the case and control groups, respectively). Conditional logistic regression determined that the NLR cut-off value of 2.8 was a statistically significant factor for determining uterine LMS (OR = 3.24; 95% CI 1.01-10.43). No significant difference was found in the other factors.CONCLUSIONS: Patients who were diagnosed with uterine LMS had a significantly higher NLR than those diagnosed with leiomyoma. The NLR is a simple and effective method for predicting the presence of a uterine LMS in patients who are pre-operatively diagnosed with a uterine mass.
Reservoirs of HIV remain a major obstacle to the complete eradication of virus despite regular anti-retroviral therapy (ART). Memory stem cells (Tscm), one of the major reservoirs, are relatively less studied owing to their presence in lower numbers and inaccessible anatomical locations. We have evaluated the molecular characteristics of Tscms in patients with ART interruption (n = 15) versus patients on uninterrupted ART (n = 12) using flow cytometry. RNA sequencing was done in the sorted Tscms to study the differential gene expression. Patients with ART interruption had significantly lower baseline CD4+T-cell counts and high viral loads as compared to patients on ART. The former group had significantly higher frequency of CD4+ and CD8+Tscms with a higher expression of PD-1 on CD8+Tscms. The transcriptome profile of Tscm was significantly different among the patient groups. The main pathways were cellular and metabolic pathways, cellular development pathways, cell differentiation and negative regulation of cellular migratory pathways. An increased yet dysfunctional CD8+ memory stem cells describe HIV-1-infected patients with break-in ART and a distinct transcriptional signature of CD4+ Tscm as compared to those of patients on ART. A more detailed understanding of the biology and dynamics of Tscm in future studies is warranted. Strategies to improve the functionality of the CD8+ Tscm will help these patients to tackle the outburst of viral replication that occurs after the cessation of therapy.
Background: Immunosuppression caused by immune cell apoptosis and an imbalance of T helper 2 cells (T H 2) and T helper 1 cells (T H 1), is associated with poor outcomes in septic patients. Esmolol was reported to improve survival by modulating immune responses in septic shock. Whether esmolol could alleviate sepsis-induced immunosuppression and the optimal dose are unclear. Methods: Four hours after cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), Wistar rats were randomized into CLP, CLP + E-5 (esmolol: 5 mg·kg -1 ·h -1 ) and CLP + E-18 (esmolol: 18 mg·kg -1 ·h -1 ) groups. Eight rats were underwent sham operation. Eighteen hours after CLP, hemodynamics and organ histological injuries were evaluated, peripheral blood mononuclear cells apoptosis and T-lymphocyte subsets counts were determined by flow cytometry, and the expression of p-Akt, Bcl-2, cleaved Caspase-3, and p-Erk1/2 in splenic CD4 + T-lymphocytes was determined by western blot and immunohistochemistry. β 1 -Adrenoreceptor expressions were evaluated using real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Results: Cecal ligation and puncture induced tachycardia, hypotension, hyperlactatemia, and multiple organ injury. Heart rate was unchanged in the CLP + E-5 group but decreased in the CLP + E-18 group. Hypotension, lactatemia, and multiple organ injuries were improved only in the CLP + E-5 group. T-lymphocyte apoptosis and T H 2/T H 1 ratio was decreased in CLP + E-5 but not in CLP + E-18. p-Akt and Bcl-2 expressions were increased, while cleaved Caspase-3 and p-Erk1/2 expressions were decreased in CLP + E-5. β 1 -Adrenoreceptor expressions were unchanged in both CLP + E-5 and CLP + E-18 groups. Conclusions: Low dose of esmolol reduced T-lymphocyte apoptosis and restored T H 2/T H 1 ratio in septic shock. Esmolol might modulate Akt/Bcl-2/Caspase-3 pathway to relieve T-lymphocyte apoptosis and inhibit Erk1/2 activity to decrease T H 0 differentiation to T H 2. Esmolol may be a potential immunoregulator of septic shock.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has transformed the treatment of hematological malignancies but has yet to achieve similar success in solid tumors due to a lack of persistence and function in the tumor microenvironment. We previously reported the augmentation of CAR T cell therapy in an engineered solid tumor model through the secretion of anti-PD-1 single-chain fragment variable region (scFv), as shown by enhanced CAR T cell antitumor efficacy, expansion, and vitality. We have since improved the platform to create a superior cellular product-CAR T cells secreting single-chain trimeric 4-1BB ligand fused to anti-PD-1 scFv (αPD1-41BBL). 4-1BB signaling promotes cytotoxic T lymphocyte proliferation and survival but targeting 4-1BB with agonist antibodies in the clinic has been hindered by low antitumor activity and high toxicity. CAR T cells using 4-1BB endodomain for costimulatory signals have demonstrated milder antitumor response and longer persistence compared to CAR T cells costimulated by CD28 endodomain. We have, for the first time, engineered CD28-costimulated CAR T cells to secrete a fusion protein containing the soluble trimeric 4-1BB ligand. In vitro and in vivo, CAR19.αPD1-41BBL T cells exhibited reduced inhibitory receptor upregulation, enhanced persistence and proliferation, and a less differentiated memory status compared to CAR T cells without additional 4-1BB:4-1BBL costimulation. Accordingly, CAR19.αPD1-41BBL T cell-treated mice displayed significantly improved tumor growth control and overall survival. Spurred on by our preclinical success targeting CD19 as a model antigen, we produced mesothelin-targeting CAR T cells and confirmed the enhanced solid tumor efficacy of αPD1-41BBL-secreting CAR T cells.
Human cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection drives the expansion and differentiation of natural killer (NK) cells with adaptive-like features. We investigated whether age and time on antiretroviral therapy (ART) influenced adaptive NK cell frequency and functionality. Flow cytometry was used to evaluate the frequency of adaptive and conventional NK cells in 229 CMV+ individuals of whom 170 were people living with HIV (PLWH). The frequency of these NK cell populations producing CD107a, CCL4, IFN-γ or TNF-α was determined following a 6-h antibody dependent (AD) stimulation. Though ART duration and age were correlated, longer time on ART was associated with a reduced frequency of adaptive NK cells. In general, the frequency and functionality of NK cells following AD stimulation did not differ significantly between treated CMV+PLWH and CMV+HIV- persons, suggesting that HIV infection, per se, did not compromise AD NK cell function. AD activation of adaptive NK cells from CMV+PLWH induced lower frequencies of IFN-γ or TNF-α secreting cells in older persons, when compared with younger persons.
Hepatic lymphoma is poorly characterized in cats and differentiating between inflammation and lymphomas is often difficult. The diagnosis of hepatic lymphoma in humans relies on recognition of specific patterns of lymphocytic infiltrates and clonality testing of antigen receptors. Herein, we defined similar patterns of lymphocytic infiltrates in hepatic biopsies of cats and correlated them with clonality to determine which patterns are predictive of lymphoma. A retrospective study was performed on surgical biopsies from 44 cats. The immunophenotype was characterized using CD3 and CD20 on all 44 samples. All 44 samples were tested using PCR for T-cell receptor gamma-gene rearrangements. PCR for immunoglobulin heavy chain gene rearrangements was performed on 24 of these cats. Four patterns of lymphocytic infiltrates were characterized: (1) tightly periportal, (2) periportal and centrilobular, (3) nodular, and (4) periportal with sinusoidal extension. Other histomorphologic features (fibrosis, biliary hyperplasia, bile ductopenia, bile duct targeting, hepatic hematopoiesis, lipogranulomas, lymphonodular aggregates, other inflammatory cells) were also evaluated. The sensitivity and specificity of the lymphocytic patterns to diagnose lymphomas were determined using Bayesian Hui-Walter analysis (BLCM) against clonality results. Lymphocytic patterns 2, 3, and 4 accurately diagnosed hepatic lymphomas with a sensitivity and specificity of 82% (CI 95%: 0.65, 0.96) and 77% (CI 95%: 0.54, 1.00), respectively. None of the other microscopic features evaluated were predictive of a lymphoma or inflammation. Our study identified specific patterns of lymphocytic infiltration that differentiate feline hepatic lymphoma from inflammation while other histologic features were not associated with an accurate diagnosis.
Kounis syndrome is a multisystem and multidisciplinary disease affecting the circulatory system that can be manifested as spasm and thrombosis. It can occur as allergic, hypersensitivity, anaphylactic, or anaphylactoid reactions associated with the release of inflammatory mediators from mast cells and from other interrelated and interacting inflammatory cells, including macrophages and lymphocytes. A platelet subset with high- and low-affinity IgE surface receptors is also involved in this process. Whereas the heart, and particularly the coronary arteries, constitute the primary targets of inflammatory mediators, the mesenteric, cerebral, and peripheral arteries are also vulnerable. Kounis syndrome is caused by a variety of factors, including drugs, foods, environmental exposure, clinical conditions, stent implantation, and vaccines. We report a unique case of a 60-year-old male with a past medical history of allergy to human albumin, alcoholic cirrhosis, and esophageal varices, who was admitted due to multiple episodes of hematemesis. Due to low hemoglobin levels, he was transfused with 3 units of red blood cells and fresh frozen plasma without any adverse reactions. On the third day of hospitalization, severe thrombocytopenia was observed and transfusion of platelets was initiated. Immediately following platelet infusion, the patient developed chest discomfort, skin signs of severe allergic reaction, and hemodynamic instability. The electrocardiogram revealed ST segment elevation in the inferior leads. Given the strong suspicion of Kounis syndrome/allergic coronary spasm, the patient was treated with anti-allergic treatment only, without any anti-platelet therapy. The clinical status of the patient gradually improved and the electrocardiographic changes reverted to normal. Based on these findings, Kounis hypersensitivity-associated acute coronary syndrome, specifically, type I Kounis syndrome, was diagnosed. Although platelet transfusion can be a life-saving therapy, each blood transfusion carries a substantial risk of adverse reactions. The aims of this report are to expand the existing knowledge of patient responses to blood transfusion and provide information on the incidence of various severe transfusion reactions to all blood components and especially to platelets. To the best of our knowledge, Kounis syndrome induced by platelet transfusionhas never been previously reported. Hypersensitivity to platelet external membrane glycoproteins in an atopic patient seems to be the possible etiology. Despite that Kounis syndrome remains an under-diagnosed clinical entity in everyday practice, it should always be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute coronary syndromes.
Dysregulation of Th17 and Treg cells contributes to the pathophysiology of many autoimmune diseases. Herein, we show that itaconate, an immunomodulatory metabolite, inhibits Th17 cell differentiation and promotes Treg cell differentiation by orchestrating metabolic and epigenetic reprogramming. Mechanistically, itaconate suppresses glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation in Th17- and Treg-polarizing T cells. Following treatment with itaconate, the S-adenosyl-L-methionine/S-adenosylhomocysteine ratio and 2-hydroxyglutarate levels are decreased by inhibiting the synthetic enzyme activities in Th17 and Treg cells, respectively. Consequently, these metabolic changes are associated with altered chromatin accessibility of essential transcription factors and key gene expression in Th17 and Treg cell differentiation, including decreased RORγt binding at the Il17a promoter. The adoptive transfer of itaconate-treated Th17-polarizing T cells ameliorates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. These results indicate that itaconate is a crucial metabolic regulator for Th17/Treg cell balance and could be a potential therapeutic agent for autoimmune diseases.
BACKGROUND: Solid tumors pose unique roadblocks to treatment with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, including limited T-cell persistence, inefficient tumor infiltration, and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. To date, attempts to overcome these roadblocks have been unsatisfactory. Herein, we reported a strategy of combining Runx3 (encoding RUNX family transcription factor 3)-overexpression with ex vivo protein kinase B (AKT) inhibition to generate CAR-T cells with both central memory and tissue-resident memory characteristics to overcome these roadblocks.METHODS: We generated second-generation murine CAR-T cells expressing a CAR against human carbonic anhydrase 9 together with Runx3-overexpression and expanded them in the presence of AKTi-1/2, a selective and reversible inhibitor of AKT1/AKT2. We explored the influence of AKT inhibition (AKTi), Runx3-overexpression, and their combination on CAR-T cell phenotypes using flow cytometry, transcriptome profiling, and mass cytometry. The persistence, tumor-infiltration, and antitumor efficacy of CAR-T cells were evaluated in subcutaneous pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) tumor models.RESULTS: AKTi generated a CD62L+central memory-like CAR-T cell population with enhanced persistence, but promotable cytotoxic potential. Runx3-overexpression cooperated with AKTi to generate CAR-T cells with both central memory and tissue-resident memory characteristics. Runx3-overexpression enhanced the potential of CD4+CAR T cells and cooperated with AKTi to inhibit the terminal differentiation of CD8+CAR T cells induced by tonic signaling. While AKTi promoted CAR-T cell central memory phenotype with prominently enhanced expansion ability, Runx3-overexpression promoted the CAR-T cell tissue-resident memory phenotype and further enhanced persistence, effector function, and tumor-residency. These novel AKTi-generated Runx3-overexpressing CAR-T cells exhibited robust antitumor activity and responded well to programmed cell death 1 blockade in subcutaneous PDAC tumor models.CONCLUSIONS: Runx3-overexpression cooperated with ex vivo AKTi to generate CAR-T cells with both tissue-resident and central memory characteristics, which equipped CAR-T cells with better persistence, cytotoxic potential, and tumor-residency ability to overcome roadblocks in the treatment of solid tumors.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Xianfang Huoming Yin (XFH) is a traditional Chinese herbal formula, which has the effect of clearing heat and detoxifying toxins, dispersing swellings, activating blood circulation, and relieving pain. It is usually applied to treat various autoimmune diseases, including Rheumatoid arthritis (RA).AIM OF THE STUDY: The migration of T lymphocytes plays an indispensable role in the pathogenesis of RA. Our previous studies demonstrated that modified Xianfang Huoming Yin (XFHM) could modulate the differentiation of T, B, and NK cells, and contribute to the restoration of immunologic balance. It also could downregulate the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines by regulating the activation of NF-κ B and JAK/STAT signaling pathways in the collagen-induced arthritis mouse model. In this study, we want to investigate whether XFHM has therapeutic effects on the inflammatory proliferation of rat fibroblast-like synovial cells (FLSs) by interfering with the migration of T lymphocytes in vitro experiments.MATERIALS AND METHODS: High performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization/mass spectrometer system was used to identify the constituents of the XFHM formula. A co-culture system of rat fibroblast-like synovial cells (RSC-364 cells) and peripheral blood lymphocytes stimulated by interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) was used as the cell model. IL-1β inhibitor (IL-1βRA) was used as a positive control medicine, and two concentrations (100 μg/mL and 250 μg/mL) of freeze-dried XFHM powder were used as intervention measure. The lymphocyte migration levels were analyzed by the Real-time xCELLigence analysis system after 24 h and 48 h of treatment. The percentage of CD3+CD4+ T cells and CD3+CD8+ T cells, and the apoptosis rate of FLSs were detected by flow cytometry. The morphology of RSC-364 cells was observed by hematoxylin-eosin staining. The protein expression of key factors for T cell differentiation and NF-κ B signaling pathway-related proteins in RSC-364 cells were examined by western-blot analysis. The migration-related cytokines levels of P-selectin, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1 in the supernatant were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.RESULTS: Twenty-one different components in XFHM were identified. The migration CI index of T cells was significantly decreased in treatment with XFHM. XFHM also could significantly downregulate the levels r of CD3+CD4+T cells and CD3+CD8+T cells that migrated to the FLSs layer. Further study found that XFHM suppresses the production of P-selectin, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1. Meanwhile, it downregulated the protein levels of T-bet, ROR γ t, IKKα/β, TRAF2, and NF-κ B p50, upregulated the expression of GATA-3 and alleviated synovial cells inflammation proliferation, contributing to the FLSs apoptosis.CONCLUSION: XFHM could attenuate the inflammation of synovium by inhibiting T lymphocyte cell migration, regulating differentiation of T cells through modulating the activation of the NF-κ B signaling pathway.
BACKGROUND: Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are a heterogeneous population with a potent suppressor profile that regulates immune responses. These cells are one of the main components of the microenvironment of several diseases, including solid and hematologic tumors, autoimmunities, and chronic inflammation. However, their wide use in studies is limited due to they comprehend a rare population, which is difficult to isolate, expand, differentiate, and maintain in culture. Additionally, this population has a complex phenotypic and functional characterization.OBJECTIVE: To develop a protocol for the in vitro production of MDSC-like population from the differentiation of the immature myeloid cell line THP-1.METHODS: We stimulated THP-1 with G-CSF (100 ng/mL) and IL-4 (20 ng/mL) for seven days to differentiate into the MDSC-like profile. At the end of the protocol, we characterized these cells phenotypically and functionally by immunophenotyping, gene expression analysis, cytokine release dosage, lymphocyte proliferation, and NK-mediated killing essays.RESULTS: We differentiate THP-1 cells in an MDSC-like population, named THP1-MDSC-like, which presented immunophenotyping and gene expression profiles compatible with that described in the literature. Furthermore, we verified that this phenotypic and functional differentiation did not deviate to a macrophage profile of M1 or M2. These THP1-MDSC-like cells secreted several immunoregulatory cytokines into the microenvironment, consistent with the suppressor profile related to MDSC. In addition, the supernatant of these cells decreased the proliferation of activated lymphocytes and impaired the apoptosis of leukemic cells induced by NK cells.CONCLUSIONS: We developed an effective protocol for MDSC in vitro production from the differentiation of the immature myeloid cell line THP-1 induced by G-CSF and IL-4. Furthermore, we demonstrated that THP1-MDSC-like suppressor cells contribute to the immune escape of AML cells. Potentially, these THP1-MDSC-like cells can be applied on a large-scale platform, thus being able to impact the course of several studies and models such as cancer, immunodeficiencies, autoimmunity, and chronic inflammation.
This study aims to reveal the therapeutic effect of ivermectin against Capra hircus papillomavirus (ChPV-1) infection and on the CD4+/CD8+ (cluster of differentiation) and oxidative stress index (OSI). Twenty hair goats naturally infected with ChPV-1 were divided into two groups with equal numbers as the ivermectin group and the control groups. Ivermectin was administered subcutaneously at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg to the goats in the ivermectin group on days 0, 7, and 21. Blood samples were collected from the vena jugularis on days 0, 21, 45, and 90. The cluster of differentiation4+/CD8+ ratio was significantly higher in the ivermectin group than in the control group on the 90th day. Furthermore, the CD8+ concentration was significantly decreased in the ivermectin group on the 90th day compared with the control group. Both total oxidant status (TOS) and OSI were found to be significantly higher in the control group on the 21st and 45th days than in the ivermectin group. On the 90th day, it was determined that the lesions in the ivermectin group improved significantly compared to those in the control group. Additionally, only in the ivermectin group was there a significant difference between the 90th day and the other days in terms of healing. As a result, it can be suggested that ivermectin has positive effects on the immune response and that its oxidative actions are of therapeutic value and do not harm the systemic oxidative status, as in untreated goats.
Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) play a prominent role in the tumor microenvironment. A quantitative understanding of the tumor-MDSC interactions that influence disease progression is critical, and currently lacking. We developed a mathematical model of metastatic growth and progression in immune-rich tumor microenvironments. We modeled the tumor-immune dynamics with stochastic delay differential equations and studied the impact of delays in MDSC activation/recruitment on tumor growth outcomes. In the lung environment, when the circulating level of MDSCs was low, the MDSC delay had a pronounced impact on the probability of new metastatic establishment: blocking MDSC recruitment could reduce the probability of metastasis by as much as 50%. To predict patient-specific MDSC responses, we fit to the model individual tumors treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors via Bayesian parameter inference. We reveal that control of the inhibition rate of natural killer (NK) cells by MDSCs had a larger influence on tumor outcomes than controlling the tumor growth rate directly. Posterior classification of tumor outcomes demonstrates that incorporating knowledge of the MDSC responses improved predictive accuracy from 63% to 82%. Investigation of the MDSC dynamics in an environment low in NK cells and abundant in cytotoxic T cells revealed, in contrast, that small MDSC delays no longer impacted metastatic growth dynamics. Our results illustrate the importance of MDSC dynamics in the tumor microenvironment overall and predict interventions promoting shifts toward less immune-suppressed states. We propose that there is a pressing need to consider MDSCs more often in analyses of tumor microenvironments.
BACKGROUND: Allergic rhinitis (AR) and chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) are two prevalent nasal diseases where both type 2 inflammation and immunoglobulin E (IgE) may play important roles. Although they can exist independently or comorbidly, subtle but important differences exist in immunopathogenesis.OBJECTIVE: To summarize current knowledge of pathophysiological roles of B lineage cells and IgE in AR and CRS with nasal polyps (CRSwNP).METHODS: Searched PubMed database, reviewed AR and CRSwNP-related literature, and discussed disease diagnosis, comorbidity, epidemiology, pathophysiology, and treatment. Similarities and differences in B-cell biology and IgE are compared in the 2 conditions.RESULTS: Both AR and CRSwNP have evidence for pathological type 2 inflammation, B-cell activation and differentiation, and IgE production. However, distinctions exist in the clinical and serological profiles at diagnosis, as well as treatments utilized. B-cell activation in AR may more frequently be regulated in the germinal center of lymphoid follicles, whereas CRSwNP may occur via extrafollicular pathways although controversies remain in these initial activating events. Oligoclonal and antigen-specific IgE maybe predominate in AR, but polyclonal and antigen-nonspecific IgE may predominate in CRSwNP. Omalizumab has been shown efficacious in treating both AR and CRSwNP in multiple clinical trials but is the only Food and Drug Administration-approved anti-IgE biologic to treat CRSwNP or allergic asthma. Staphylococcus aureus frequently colonizes the nasal airway and has the ability to activate type two responses including B-cell responses although the extent to which it modulates AR and CRSwNP disease severity is being investigated.CONCLUSION: This review highlights current knowledge of the roles of B cells and IgE in the pathogenesis of AR and CRSwNP and a small comparison between the 2 diseases. More systemic studies should be done to elevate the understanding of these diseases and their treatment.
Commercially available Interferon-γ release assays (IGRAs), including the last-generation QuantiFERON TB-Plus (QFT-Plus), are effective in aiding the diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB) infection but cannot distinguish latent TB subjects from active TB patients. The aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate the performance of an HBHA-based IGRA, combined with commercially available IGRAs, to assess their usefulness as a prognostic biomarkers and aid in the monitoring of TB treatment in children. Following clinical, microbiological, and radiological assessment, children younger than 18 years of age classified as either LTBI or active TB were tested at baseline and during treatment by the QuantiFERON TB-Plus (QFT) assay and an aliquot of whole-blood was stimulated with HBHA. Among the 655 children evaluated, 559 (85.3%) were classified as "Non TB", 44 patients (6.7%) with active TB, and 52 (7.9%) with LTBI. The median HBHA-IGRA IFN-gamma responses were able to discriminate active TB from LTBI (0.13 IU/ml vs 1.995, (p < 0,0001), those with asymptomatic TB from those with symptomatic TB (1.01 IU/ml vs 0.115 IU/ml, p 0.017), or more severe TB (p 0.022), and significantly raised during successful TB treatment (p < 0.0001). Conversely, CD4 + and CD8 + responses were similar in all groups of patients, although active TB patients had higher CD4 + responses and LTBI higher CD8 + responses.  Conclusion: HBHA-based IGRA, combined with CD4 + and CD8 + responses assessed by commercially available IGRAs, is a useful support in the characterization of the TB spectrum in children and monitoring of TB-therapy. What is Known: • Current immune diagnostics are not able to discriminate active and latent Ttuberculosis, including the recently approved QFT-PLUS.. • New immunological assays with prognostic value are highly needed. What is New: • HBHA-based IGRA, combined with CD4+ and CD8+ responses assessed by commercially available IGRAs, is a useful support for the differentiation of active and latent TB in children.. • HBHA-based IGRA, combined with CD4+ and CD8+ responses assessed by commercially available IGRAs, is a useful support in the monitoring of TBtherapy in children..
BACKGROUND: Non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) is the most common cause of cardiogenic cerebral embolism (CCE). However, the underlying mechanism between cerebral embolism and NVAF is indefinite, and there is no effective and convenient biomarker to identify potential risk of CCE in patients with NVAF in clinic. The present study aims to identify risk factors for interpreting the potential association of CCE with NVAF and providing valuable biomarkers to predict the risk of CCE for NVAF patients.METHODS: 641 NVAF patients diagnosed with CCE and 284 NVAF patients without any history of stroke were recruited in the present study. Clinical data including demographic characteristics, medical history, and clinical assessments, were recorded. Meanwhile, Blood cell counts, lipid profiles, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, and coagulation function-related indicators were measured. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis was utilized to build a composite indicator model based on the blood risk factors.RESULTS: (1) CCE patients had significantly increased neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and D-dimer levels as compared with patients in the NVAF group, and these three indicators can distinguish CCE patients from ones in the NVAF group with an area under the curve (AUC) value of over 0.750, respectively. (2) Using the LASSO model, a composite indicator, i.e., the risk score, was determined based on PLR and D-dimer and displayed differential power for distinguishing CCE patients from NVAF patients with an AUC value of over 0.934. (3) The risk score was positively correlated with the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale and CHADS2 scores in CCE patients. (4) There was a significant association between the change value of the risk score and the recurrence time of stroke in initial CCE patients.CONCLUSIONS: The PLR and D-dimer represent an aggravated process of inflammation and thrombosis in the occurrence of CCE after NVAF. The combination of these two risk factors can contribute to identifying the risk of CCE for patients with NVAF with an accuracy of 93.4%, and the greater in change of composite indicator, the shorter in the recurrence of CCE for NVAF patients.
BACKGROUND: The interaction between immune checkpoint and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) play a significant role in inflammatory diseases. But their correlation with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) remains unclear.METHODS: The differentially expressed immune checkpoints and immunocytes in the airway tissues of COPD patients were identified by bioinformatics analysis, followed by correlation analysis and identification of immune-related differential genes for Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) analysis. The results of bioinformatics analysis were verified by ELISA and Real-Time PCR and transcriptome sequencing of the peripheral blood of both COPD patients and healthy subjects.RESULTS: The results of the bioinformatics analysis showed that the level of MDSCs in airway tissue and peripheral blood of COPD patients was higher than that of healthy controls. The expression of CSF1 in airway tissue and peripheral blood of COPD patients increased, and CYBB was increased in airway tissue and decreased in peripheral blood of COPD patients. The expression of HHLA2 in the airway tissue decreased in COPD patients, and showed a negative correlation with MDSCs, with a correlation coefficient of -0.37. The peripheral blood flow cytometry results indicated that MDSCs and Treg cells of COPD patients were higher than those in the healthy control group. The results of peripheral blood ELISA and RT-PCR showed that the HHLA2 and CSF1 levels in COPD patients were higher than those in the healthy control group.CONCLUSION: In COPD, the bone marrow is stimulated to produce MDSCs, and a large number of MDSCs migrate to airway tissue through peripheral blood and cooperate with HHLA2 to exert an immunosuppressive effect. Whether MDSCs play an immunosuppressive effect during migration needs to be further confirmed.
Basophils play an important role in the development of type 2 immunity and have been linked to protective immunity against parasites but also inflammatory responses in allergic diseases. While typically classified as degranulating effector cells, different modes of cellular activation have been identified, which together with the observation that different populations of basophils exist in the context of disease suggest a multifunctional role. In this review we aim to highlight the role of basophils play in antigen presentation of type 2 immunity and focus on the contribution basophils play in the context of antigen presentation and T cell priming. We will discuss evidence suggesting that basophils perform a direct role in antigen presentation and relate it to findings that indicate cellular cooperation with professional antigen-presenting cells, such as dendritic cells. We will also highlight tissue-specific differences in basophil phenotypes that might lead to distinct roles in cellular cooperation and how these distinct interactions might influence immunological and clinical outcomes of disease. This review thus aims to consolidate the seemingly conflicting literature on the involvement of basophils in antigen presentation and tries to find a resolution to the discussion whether basophils influence antigen presentation through direct or indirect mechanisms.
INTRODUCTION: Activation of T cell receptor (TCR) signaling is critical for clonal expansion of CD8+ T cells. However, the effects of augmenting TCR signaling during chronic antigen exposure is less understood. Here, we investigated the role of diacylglycerol (DAG)-mediated signaling downstream of the TCR during chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus clone 13 (LCMV CL13) infection by blocking DAG kinase zeta (DGKζ), a negative regulator of DAG.METHODS: We examined the activation, survival, expansion, and phenotype of virus-specific T cell in the acute and chronic phases of LCMV CL13-infected in mice after DGKζ blockade or selective activation of ERK.RESULTS: Upon LCMV CL13 infection, DGKζ deficiency promoted early short-lived effector cell (SLEC) differentiation of LCMV-specific CD8+ T cells, but this was followed by abrupt cell death. Short-term inhibition of DGKζ with ASP1570, a DGKζ-selective pharmacological inhibitor, augmented CD8+ T cell activation without causing cell death, which reduced virus titers both in the acute and chronic phases of LCMV CL13 infection. Unexpectedly, the selective enhancement of ERK, one key signaling pathway downstream of DAG, lowered viral titers and promoted expansion, survival, and a memory phenotype of LCMV-specific CD8+ T cells in the acute phase with fewer exhausted T cells in the chronic phase. The difference seen between DGKζ deficiency and selective ERK enhancement could be potentially explained by the activation of the AKT/mTOR pathway by DGKζ deficiency, since the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin rescued the abrupt cell death seen in virus-specific DGKζ KO CD8+ T cells.DISCUSSION: Thus, while ERK is downstream of DAG signaling, the two pathways lead to distinct outcomes in the context of chronic CD8+ T cell activation, whereby DAG promotes SLEC differentiation and ERK promotes a memory phenotype.
BACKGROUND: Early diagnosis for α-fetoprotein (AFP) negative hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a critical problem. Metabolomics is prevalently involved in the identification of novel biomarkers. This study aims to identify new and effective markers for AFP negative HCC.METHODS: In total, 147 patients undergoing liver transplantation were enrolled from our hospital, including liver cirrhosis patients (LC, n=25), AFP negative HCC patients (NEG, n=44) and HCC patients with AFP over 20 ng/mL (POS, n=78). 52 Healthy volunteers (HC) were also recruited in this study. Metabolomic profiling was performed on the plasma of those patients and healthy volunteers to select candidate metabolomic biomarkers. A novel diagnostic model for AFP negative HCC was established based on Random forest analysis, and prognostic biomarkers were also identified.RESULTS: 15 differential metabolites were identified being able to distinguish NEG group from both LC and HC group. Random forest analysis and subsequent Logistic regression analysis showed that PC(16:0/16:0), PC(18:2/18:2) and SM(d18:1/18:1) are independent risk factor for AFP negative HCC. A three-marker model of Metabolites-Score was established for the diagnosis of AFP negative HCC patients with an area under the time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) of 0.913, and a nomogram was then established as well. When the cut-off value of the score was set at 1.2895, the sensitivity and specificity for the model were 0.727 and 0.92, respectively. This model was also applicable to distinguish HCC from cirrhosis. Notably, the Metabolites-Score was not correlated to tumor or body nutrition parameters, but difference of the score was statistically significant between different neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) groups (≤5 vs. >5, P=0.012). Moreover, MG(18:2/0:0/0:0) was the only prognostic biomarker among 15 metabolites, which is significantly associated with tumor-free survival of AFP negative HCC patients (HR=1.160, 95%CI 1.012-1.330, P=0.033).CONCLUSION: The established three-marker model and nomogram based on metabolomic profiling can be potential non-invasive tool for the diagnosis of AFP negative HCC. The level of MG(18:2/0:0/0:0) exhibits good prognosis prediction performance for AFP negative HCC.
BACKGROUND: Smad7 is protective in a mouse model of rheumatoid arthritis. Here we investigated whether Smad7-expressing CD4+ T cells and the methylation of Smad7 gene in CD4+ T cells contribute to the disease activity of RA in patients.METHODS: Peripheral CD4+ T cells were collected from 35 healthy controls and 57 RA patients. Smad7 expression by CD4+ T cells were determined and correlated with the clinical parameters of RA including RA score and serum levels of IL-6, CRP, ESR, DAS28-CRP, DAS28-ESR, Swollen joints and Tender joints. Bisulfite sequencing (BSP-seq) was used to determine the DNA methylation in Smad7 promoter (-1000 to +2000) region in CD4+ T cells. In addition, a DNA methylation inhibitor, 5-Azacytidine (5-AzaC), was added to CD4+ T cells to examine the possible role of Smad7 methylation in CD4+ T cell differentiation and functional activity.RESULTS: Compared to the heath controls, Smad7 expression was significantly decreased in CD4+ T cells from RA patients and inversely correlated with the RA activity score and serum levels of IL-6 and CRP. Importantly, loss of Smad7 in CD4+ T cell was associated with the alteration of Th17/Treg balance by increasing Th17 over the Treg population. BSP-seq detected that DNA hypermethylation occurred in the Smad7 promoter region of CD4+ T cells obtained from RA patients. Mechanistically, we found that the DNA hypermethylation in the Smad7 promoter of CD4+ T cells was associated with decreased Smad7 expression in RA patients. This was associated with overreactive DNA methyltransferase (DMNT1) and downregulation of the methyl-CpG binding domain proteins (MBD4). Inhibition of DNA methylation by treating CD4+ T cells from RA patients with 5-AzaC significantly increased Smad7 mRNA expression along with the increased MBD4 but reduced DNMT1 expression, which was associated with the rebalance in the Th17/Treg response.CONCLUSION: DNA hypermethylation at the Smad7 promoter regions may cause a loss of Smad7 in CD4+ T cells of RA patients, which may contribute to the RA activity by disrupting the Th17/Treg balance.
INTRODUCTION: Although multiple targeted treatments have appeared, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still one of the most common causes of cancer-related deaths. The immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) is a critical factor in the oncogenesis and progression of HCC. The emerging scRNA-seq makes it possible to explore the TME at a high resolution. This study was designed to reveal the immune-metabolic crosstalk between immune cells in HCC and provide novel strategies to regulate immunosuppressive TME.METHOD: In this study, we performed scRNA-seq on paired tumor and peri-tumor tissues of HCC. The composition and differentiation trajectory of the immune populations in TME were portrayed. Cellphone DB was utilized to calculate interactions between the identified clusters. Besides, flow cytometry, RT-PCR and seahorse experiments were implemented to explore potential metabolic and epigenetic mechanisms of the inter-cellular interaction.RESULT: A total of 19 immune cell clusters were identified and 7 were found closely related to HCC prognosis. Besides, differentiation trajectories of T cells were also presented. Moreover, a new population, CD3+C1q+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) were identified and found significantly interacted with CD8+ CCL4+T cells. Compared to the peri-tumor tissue, their interaction was attenuated in tumor. Additionally, the dynamic presence of this newly found cluster was also verified in the peripheral blood of patients with sepsis. Furthermore, we found that CD3+C1q+TAM affected T cell immunity through C1q signaling-induced metabolic and epigenetic reprogramming, thereby potentially affecting tumor prognosis.CONCLUSION: Our study revealed the interaction between CD3+C1q+TAM and CD8+ CCL4+T cells and may provide implications for tackling the immunosuppressive TME in HCC.
INTRODUCTION: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) causes mixed cryoglobulinemia (MC) by driving clonal expansion of B cells expressing B cell receptors (BCRs), often encoded by the VH1-69 variable gene, endowed with both rheumatoid factor (RF) and anti-HCV specificity. These cells display an atypical CD21low phenotype and functional exhaustion evidenced by unresponsiveness to BCR and Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) stimuli. Although antiviral therapy is effective on MC vasculitis, pathogenic B cell clones persist long thereafter and can cause virus-independent disease relapses.METHODS: Clonal B cells from patients with HCV-associated type 2 MC or healthy donors were stimulated with CpG or heath-aggregated IgG (as surrogate immune complexes) alone or in combination; proliferation and differentiation were then evaluated by flow cytometry. Phosphorylation of AKT and of the p65 NF-kB subunit were measured by flow cytometry. TLR9 was quantified by qPCR and by intracellular flow cytometry, and MyD88 isoforms were analyzed using RT-PCR.DISCUSSION: We found that dual triggering with autoantigen and CpG restored the capacity of exhausted VH1-69pos B cells to proliferate. The signaling mechanism for this BCR/TLR9 crosstalk remains elusive, since TLR9 mRNA and protein as well as MyD88 mRNA were normally expressed and CpG-induced phosphorylation of p65 NF-kB was intact in MC clonal B cells, whereas BCR-induced p65 NF-kB phosphorylation was impaired and PI3K/Akt signaling was intact. Our findings indicate that autoantigen and CpG of microbial or cellular origin may unite to foster persistence of pathogenic RF B cells in HCV-cured MC patients. BCR/TLR9 crosstalk might represent a more general mechanism enhancing systemic autoimmunity by the rescue of exhausted autoreactive CD21low B cells.
Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) virus infection is a major risk factor for cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Hepatitis B virus (HBV) immune escape is regulated by the exhaustion of virus-specific CD8+ T cells, which is associated with abnormal expression of negative regulatory molecule CD244. However, the underlying mechanisms are unclear. To investigate the important roles of non-coding RNAs play in CD244 regulating HBV immune escape, we performed microarray analysis to determine the differential expression profiles of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), microRNAs (miRNAs), and mRNAs in patients with CHB and patients with spontaneous clearance of HBV. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) was analyzed by bioinformatics methods and confirmed by the dual-luciferase reporter assay. Furthermore, gene silencing and overexpression experiments were used to further identify the roles of lncRNA and miRNA in HBV immune escape through CD244 regulation. The results showed that the expression of CD244 on the surface of CD8+ T cells was significantly increased in CHB patients and in the co-culture system of T cells and HBV-infected HepAD38 cells, which was accompanied by the reduction of miR-330-3p and the elevation of lnc-AIFM2-1. The down-regulated miR-330-3p induced the apoptosis of T cells by lifting the inhibition of CD244, which was reversed by miR-330-3p mimic or CD244-siRNA. Lnc-AIFM2-1 promotes the accumulation of CD244, which is mediated by decreased miR-330-3p, and then reduced the clearance ability of CD8+ T cells to HBV through regulated CD244 expression. And the injury in the ability of CD8+ T cells to clear HBV can be reversed by lnc-AIFM2-1-siRNA, miR-330-3p mimic, or CD244-siRNA. Collectively, our findings indicate that lnc-AIFM2-1 on CD244 by acting as a ceRNA of miR-330-3p contributes to HBV immune escape, which may provide novel insights into the roles of interaction networks among lncRNA, miRNA, and mRNA in HBV immune escape, highlighting potential applications of lnc-AIFM2-1 and CD244 for diagnosis and treatment in CHB.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purine nucleotide adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is released into extracellular spaces as extracellular ATP (eATP) as a consequence of cell injury or death and activates the purinergic receptors. Once released, eATP may facilitate T-lymphocyte activation and differentiation. The purpose of this review is to elucidate the role of ATP-mediated signaling in the immunological events related to type 1 diabetes (T1D).RECENT FINDINGS: T lymphocytes mediate immune response during the onset of T1D and promote pancreatic islet or whole pancreas rejection in transplantation. Recent data suggest a potential role for eATP in early steps of T1D onset and of allograft rejection. In different preclinical experimental models and clinical trials, several drugs targeting purinergic signaling have been employed to abrogate lymphocyte activation and differentiation, thus representing an achievable treatment to prevent/revert T1D or to induce long-term islet allograft function.SUMMARY: In preclinical and clinical settings, eATP-signaling inhibition induces immune tolerance in autoimmune disease and in allotransplantation. In this view, the purinergic system may represent a novel therapeutic target for auto- and allo-immunity.
BACKGROUND: A novel artemisinin derivative, dihydroartemisinin-ursodeoxycholic acid conjugate (4), was found to exhibit strong immunosuppressive activity. Various methods were used to evaluate the immunosuppressive activity and mechanism of action of the compound to explore its potential applications.METHODS: T cell proliferation, mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR), and Th1/Th17 differentiation assays were used to evaluate the immunosuppressive activity of the compound. Differentially expressed genes from RNA sequencing were analysed with Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis, while enriched signalling pathways were further validated by western blotting (WB). In vivo efficacy was validated with delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) mouse models and dextran sodium sulphate (DSS)-induced inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) mouse model.RESULTS: Compound 4 inhibited concanavalin A -induced mouse splenic T cell proliferation (IC50 = 15 nM) and anti-CD3/CD28-induced human primary T cell proliferation (IC50 = 30 nM) while also reducing the secretion of hIFN-γ. Compound 4 exhibited similar inhibitory activity in MLR assay. Compound 4 dose-dependently inhibited human Th1/Th17 differentiation. The KEGG pathway enrichment analysis indicated that the genes related to T cell activation signalling pathways PI3K-AKT, MAPK, and NF-κB were significantly enriched. WB confirmed that compound 4 inhibited the AKT/MAPK and NF-κB signalling pathways. Compound 4 dose-dependently inhibited ear and foot pad swelling in DTH mouse models. In the DSS-induced IBD mouse model, compound 4 significantly decreased the disease activity index and colon density, and inhibited splenomegaly of the mice.CONCLUSION: The in vitro and in vivo results indicated that compound 4 has the potential to be developed into an anti-IBD drug.
BACKGROUND: Severe congenital neutropenia presents with recurrent infections early in life as a result of arrested granulopoiesis. Multiple genetic defects are known to block granulocyte differentiation; however, a genetic cause remains unknown in approximately 40% of cases.OBJECTIVE: We aimed to characterize a patient with severe congenital neutropenia and syndromic features without a genetic diagnosis.METHODS: Whole exome sequencing results were validated using flow cytometry, Western blotting, coimmunoprecipitation, quantitative PCR, cell cycle and proliferation analysis of lymphocytes and fibroblasts and granulocytic differentiation of primary CD34+ and HL-60 cells.RESULTS: We identified a homozygous missense mutation in DBF4 in a patient with mild extra-uterine growth retardation, facial dysmorphism and severe congenital neutropenia. DBF4 is the regulatory subunit of the CDC7 kinase, together known as DBF4-dependent kinase (DDK), the complex essential for DNA replication initiation. The DBF4 variant demonstrated impaired ability to bind CDC7, resulting in decreased DDK-mediated phosphorylation, defective S-phase entry and progression and impaired differentiation of granulocytes associated with activation of the p53-p21 pathway. The introduction of wild-type DBF4 into patient CD34+ cells rescued the promyelocyte differentiation arrest.CONCLUSION: Hypomorphic DBF4 mutation causes autosomal-recessive severe congenital neutropenia with syndromic features.
The aim of this study was to develop casein-based nanoscale carriers as a potential delivery system for daunorubicin, as a pH-responsive targeting tool for acute lymphocytic leukemia. A coacervation technique followed by nano spray-drying was used for the preparation of drug-loaded casein nanoparticles. Four batches of drug-loaded formulations were developed at varied drug-polymer ratios using a simple coacervation technique followed by spray-drying. They were further characterized using scanning electron microscopy, dynamic light scattering, FTIR spectroscopy, XRD diffractometry, and differential scanning calorimetry. Drug release was investigated in different media (pH 5 and 7.4). The cytotoxicity of the daunorubicin-loaded nanoparticles was compared to that of the pure drug. The influence of the polymer-to-drug ratio on the nanoparticles' properties such as their particle size, surface morphology, production yield, drug loading, entrapment efficiency, and drug release behavior was studied. Furthermore, the cytotoxicity of the drug-loaded nanoparticles was investigated confirming their potential as carriers for daunorubicin delivery.
Lenvatinib is a multitarget tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) approved for the treatment of several types of cancers, including metastatic differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC). The intended targets include VEGFR 1-3, FGFR 1-4, PDGFRα, RET, and KIT signaling pathways, but drug resistance inevitably develops and a complete cure is very rare. Recent data has revealed that most of the TKIs have additional 'off-target' immunological effects, which might contribute to a protective antitumor immune response; however, human cellular data are lacking regarding Lenvatinib-mediated immunomodulation in DTC. Here, we investigated in ex vivo models the impact of Lenvatinib on the function of immune cells in healthy volunteers. We found that monocytes and macrophages were particularly susceptible to Lenvatinib, while neutrophiles and lymphocytes were less affected. In tumor-immune cell co-culture experiments, Lenvatinib exerted a broad inhibitory effect on the proinflammatory response in TC-induced macrophages. Interestingly, Lenvatinib-treated cells had decreased cellular M2 membrane markers, whereas they secreted a significantly higher level of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 upon LPS stimulation. In addition, prolonged exposure to Lenvatinib impaired macrophages survival and phenotypical differentiation, which was accompanied by remarkable morphological changes and suppressed cellular metabolic activity. These effects were mediated by myeloid cell-intrinsic mechanisms which are independent of Lenvatinib's on-target activity. Finally, using specific inhibitors, we argue that dual effects on p38 MAPK and Syk pathways are likely the underlying mechanism of the off-target immunological effects we observed in this study. Collectively, our data show the immunomodulatory properties of Lenvatinib on human monocytes. These insights could be harnessed for the future design of novel treatment strategies involving a combination of Lenvatinib with other immunotherapeutic agents.
CD39 is a marker of immune cells such as lymphocytes and monocytes. The CD39/CD73 pathway hydrolyzes ATP into adenosine, which has a potent immunosuppressive effect. CD39 regulates the function of a variety of immunologic cells through the purinergic signaling pathways. CD39+ T cells have been implicated in viral infections, including Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), Cytomegalovirus (CMV), viral hepatitis, and Corona Virus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) infections. The expression of CD39 is an indicator of lymphocyte exhaustion, which develops during chronicity. During RNA viral infections, the CD39 marker can profile the populations of CD4+ T lymphocytes into two populations, T-effector lymphocytes, and T-regulatory lymphocytes, where CD39 is predominantly expressed on the T-regulatory cells. The level of CD39 in T lymphocytes can predict the disease progression, antiviral immune responses, and the response to antiviral drugs. Besides, the percentage of CD39 and CD73 in B lymphocytes and monocytes can affect the status of viral infections. In this review, we investigate the impact of CD39 and CD39-expressing cells on viral infections and how the frequency and percentage of CD39+ immunologic cells determine disease prognosis.
The hypothesis is that inflammatory/allergic conditions should be considered in self-reported milk intolerance (SRMI) patients who test negative and/or are asymptomatic at Lactose Hydrogen Breath Test (LHBT). We analyzed fecal calprotectin (FCP) values in SRMI patients to investigate the frequency of a "positive" intestinal inflammation marker and its correlation with lactose tolerance/intolerance. Data from 329 SRMI patients were retrospectively analyzed; according to the positive/negative results (maldigester/digester) and the presence/absence of symptoms reported during LHBT (intolerant/tolerant), patients were divided into: 'lactose tolerants' (n. 104), 'maldigesters/intolerants' (n. 187), 'digesters/intolerants' (n. 38). FCP values were analyzed in all three subgroups. A percentage of SRMI patients complained of constipation (>15%), extraintestinal symptoms (>30% including anemia), multiple food hypersensitivity (7.6%) and had intraepithelial lymphocytic infiltration at duodenal biopsy (>50%). Over 50.0% showed FCP values above the normal limit. Lactose tolerants and maldigesters/intolerants had higher positivity frequencies (p < 0.0001, for both) and absolute values (p = 0.04, for maldigesters/intolerants) of FCP compared to digesters/intolerants. FCP was not useful to differentiate tolerant from intolerant subjects (AUC 0.58). Our data suggest the existence of an allergic/inflammatory pathogenetic mechanism in a subset of SRMI subjects. FCP results are in keeping with this hypothesis, even if they cannot differentiate lactose tolerant from intolerant patients.
After exposure to an antigen, CD8 T cells reach a decision point about their fate: to become either short-lived effector cells (SLECs) or memory progenitor effector cells (MPECs). SLECs are specialized in providing an immediate effector function but have a shorter lifespan and lower proliferative capacity compared to MPECs. Upon encountering the cognate antigen during an infection, CD8 T cells rapidly expand and then contract to a level that is maintained for the memory phase after the peak of the response. Studies have shown that the contraction phase is mediated by TGFβ and selectively targets SLECs, while sparing MPECs. The aim of this study is to investigate how the CD8 T cell precursor stage determines TGFβ sensitivity. Our results demonstrate that MPECs and SLECs have differential responses to TGFβ, with SLECs being more sensitive to TGFβ than MPECs. This difference in sensitivity is associated with the levels of TGFβRI and RGS3, and the SLEC-related transcriptional activator T-bet binding to the TGFβRI promoter may provide a molecular basis for increased TGFβ sensitivity in SLECs.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) represents the most common pediatric cancer. Most patients (85%) develop B-cell ALL; however, T-cell ALL tends to be more aggressive. We have previously identified 2B4 (SLAMF4), CS1 (SLAMF7) and LLT1 (CLEC2D) that can activate or inhibit NK cells upon the interaction with their ligands. In this study, the expression of 2B4, CS1, LLT1, NKp30 and NKp46 was determined. The expression profiles of these immune receptors were analyzed in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of B-ALL and T-ALL subjects by single-cell RNA sequencing data obtained from the St. Jude PeCan data portal that showed increased expression of LLT1 in B-ALL and T-ALL subjects. Whole blood was collected from 42 pediatric ALL subjects at diagnosis and post-induction chemotherapy and 20 healthy subjects, and expression was determined at the mRNA and cell surface protein level. A significant increase in cell surface LLT1 expression in T cells, monocytes and NK cells was observed. Increased expression of CS1 and NKp46 was observed on monocytes of ALL subjects at diagnosis. A decrease of LLT1, 2B4, CS1 and NKp46 on T cells of ALL subjects was also observed post-induction chemotherapy. Furthermore, mRNA data showed altered expression of receptors in ALL subjects pre- and post-induction chemotherapy treatment. The results indicate that the differential expression of the receptors/ligand may play a role in the T-cell- and NK-cell-mediated immune surveillance of pediatric ALL.
Sertoli cells within the testis are instrumental in providing an environment for spermatogenesis and protecting the developing germ cells from detrimental immune responses which could affect fertility. Though these immune responses consist of many immune processes, this review focuses on the understudied complement system. Complement consists of 50+ proteins including regulatory proteins, immune receptors, and a cascade of proteolytic cleavages resulting in target cell destruction. In the testis, Sertoli cells protect the germ cells from autoimmune destruction by creating an immunoregulatory environment. Most studies on Sertoli cells and complement have been conducted in transplantation models, which are effective in studying immune regulation during robust rejection responses. In grafts, Sertoli cells survive activated complement, have decreased deposition of complement fragments, and express many complement inhibitors. Moreover, the grafts have delayed infiltration of immune cells and contain increased infiltration of immunosuppressive regulatory T cells as compared to rejecting grafts. Additionally, anti-sperm antibodies and lymphocyte infiltration have been detected in up to 50% and 30% of infertile testes, respectively. This review seeks to provide an updated overview of the complement system, describe its relationship with immune cells, and explain how Sertoli cells may regulate complement in immunoprotection. Identifying the mechanism Sertoli cells use to protect themselves and germ cells against complement and immune destruction is relevant for male reproduction, autoimmunity, and transplantation.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common adult leukemia in Western countries. However, CLL is relatively rare in Asia; its genetic features are rarely studied. Here, we aimed to genetically characterize Korean CLL patients and to elucidate the genetic and clinical associations based on data obtained from 113 patients at a single Korean institute. We used next-generation sequencing to explore the multi-gene mutational data and immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene clonality with somatic hypermutation (SHM). MYD88 (28.3%), including L265P (11.5%) and V217F (13.3%), was the most frequently mutated gene, followed by KMT2D (6.2%), NOTCH1 (5.3%), SF3B1 (5.3%), and TP53 (4.4%). MYD88-mutated CLL was characterized by SHM and atypical immunophenotype with fewer cytogenetic abnormalities. The 5-year time to treatment (TTT) of the overall cohort was 49.8% ± 8.2% (mean ± standard deviation) and the 5-year overall survival was 86.2% ± 5.8%. Patients with SHM, isolated del(13q), TP53-wild type, and NOTCH1-wild type showed better results than those without these conditions. In the subgroup analyses, patients with SHM and L265P presented shorter TTT than patients with SHM but not L265P. In contrast, V217F was associated with a higher SHM percentage and showed a favorable prognosis. Our study revealed the distinct characteristics of Korean CLL patients with high frequencies of MYD88 mutations and their clinical relevance.
BACKGROUND: Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG) immunotherapy is the first-line treatment in patients with high-risk non-muscle invasive papillary urothelial carcinoma (NMIPUC), the most common type of bladder cancer. The therapy outcomes are variable and may depend on the immune response within the tumor microenvironment. In our study, we explored the prognostic value of CD8+ cell density gradient indicators across the tumor epithelium-stroma interface of NMIPUC.METHODS: Clinical and pathologic data were retrospectively collected from 157 NMIPUC patients treated with BCG immunotherapy after transurethral resection. Whole-slide digital image analysis of CD8 immunohistochemistry slides was used for tissue segmentation, CD8+ cell quantification, and the assessment of CD8+ cell densities within the epithelium-stroma interface. Subsequently, the gradient indicators (center of mass and immunodrop) were computed to represent the density gradient across the interface.RESULTS: By univariable analysis of the clinicopathologic factors, including the history of previous NMIPUC, poor tumor differentiation, and pT1 stage, were associated with shorter RFS (p < 0.05). In CD8+ analyses, only the gradient indicators but not the absolute CD8+ densities were predictive for RFS (p < 0.05). The best-performing cross-validated model included previous episodes of NMIPUC (HR = 4.4492, p = 0.0063), poor differentiation (HR = 2.3672, p = 0.0457), and immunodrop (HR = 5.5072, p = 0.0455).CONCLUSIONS: We found that gradient indicators of CD8+ cell densities across the tumor epithelium-stroma interface, along with routine clinical and pathology data, improve the prediction of RFS in NMIPUC.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), as small regulatory RNA molecules, are involved in gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Hence, miRNAs contribute to gene regulation of various steps of different cell subsets' differentiation, maturation, and activation. The adaptive immune system arm, which exhibits the most specific immune responses, is also modulated by miRNAs. The generation and maturation of various T-cell subsets concomitant with B-cells is under precise regulation of miRNAs which function directly on the hallmark genes of each cell subset or indirectly through regulation of signaling pathway mediators and/or transcription factors involved in this maturation journey. In this review, we first discussed the origination process of common lymphocyte progenitors from hematopoietic stem cells, which further differentiate into various T-cell subsets under strict regulation of miRNAs and transcription factors. Subsequently, the differentiation of B-cells from common lymphocyte progenitors in bone marrow and periphery were discussed in association with a network of miRNAs and transcription factors.
The ability of MSCs to modulate the inflammatory environment is well recognized, but understanding the molecular mechanisms responsible for these properties is still far from complete. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), a product of the cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) pathway, is indicated as one of the key mediators in the immunomodulatory effect of MSCs. Due to the pleiotropic effect of this molecule, determining its role in particular intercellular interactions and aspects of cell functioning is very difficult. In this article, the authors attempt to summarize the previous observations regarding the role of PGE2 and COX-2 in the immunomodulatory properties and other vital functions of MSCs. So far, the most consistent results relate to the inhibitory effect of MSC-derived PGE2 on the early maturation of dendritic cells, suppressive effect on the proliferation of activated lymphocytes, and stimulatory effect on the differentiation of macrophages into M2 phenotype. Additionally, COX-2/PGE2 plays an important role in maintaining the basic life functions of MSCs, such as the ability to proliferate, migrate and differentiate, and it also positively affects the formation of niches that are conducive to both hematopoiesis and carcinogenesis.
The central role of the microbiota as a pivotal factor regulating anti-tumor immune responses has recently been appreciated. Increasing evidence has put a spotlight on the connection of microbiota to T cells, by showing impaired effector and/or memory responses in germ-free (GF) mice or in the presence of dysbiotic communities, and association with tumor growth and overall survival (OS). These observations also have significant implications for anti-tumor therapy and vaccination, suggesting that the communication between T cells and the microbiota involves soluble mediators (microbiota-derived metabolites) that influence various functions of T cells. In addition, there is growing appreciation of the role of bacterial translocation into the peritumoral milieu from the intestinal tract, as well as of locally developed tumor microbial communities, spatially separated from the gut microbiota, in shaping the tumor microbiome. Collectively, these findings have added new support to the idea that tonic inputs mirroring the existence of tumor microbiome could regulate the function of tumor-infiltrating T cells and tissue-resident memory T (TRM) cells. In this review, we focus on recent advances and aspects of these active areas of investigation and provide a comprehensive overview of the unique mechanisms that play a pivotal role in the regulation of anti-tumor immunity by the microbiota, some of which could be of particular relevance for addressing problems caused by tumor heterogeneity. It is our hope that this review will provide a theoretical foundation for future investigations in this area.
While the advent of immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer treatment, its use in the treatment of glioblastoma (GBM) has been less successful. Most studies using immunotherapy in GBM have been negative and the reasons for this are still being studied. In clinical practice, interpreting response to immunotherapy has been challenging, particularly when trying to differentiate between treatment-related changes (i.e., pseudoprogression) or true tumor progression. T cell tagging is one promising technique to noninvasively monitor treatment efficacy by assessing the migration, expansion, and engagement of T cells and their ability to target tumor cells at the tumor site.
Interferon gamma (IFN-γ), the member of type II interferons, is a major driver and effector cytokine for Th1 cells and plays broad roles in regulating the function of immune cells. Teleost fish represents the oldest living bony vertebrates containing T-lymphocyte subsets. However, whether or how the regulatory mechanisms of IFN-γ on Th1 cells occur in teleost fish remain unknown. In this study, full-length transcriptome sequencing was performed to analyze the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and signaling pathways in the IFN-γ stimulated lymphocytes of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus), the data showed 811 genes were upregulated and 1107 genes were downregulated, Th1 and Th2 cell differentiation pathway was remarkably enriched from DEGs, and the genes in the Th1 cell differentiation pathway were upregulated and verified. Accordingly, variations on Th1 cell differentiation marker genes and CD4+ cells were investigated after IFN-γ stimulation, the results confirmed that CD4+ T lymphocytes proliferated significantly after IFN-γ stimulation, accompanied by eight genes significant upregulation and increased T-bet expression in lymphocytes. In conclusion, the results revealed an induction of IFN-γ on Th1-type immune response, providing novel perspectives into the differentiation of CD4+ T lymphocytes in teleost.
Immune dysregulation has long been proposed to be associated with adenomyosis, but the underlying mediators and mechanisms remain largely unexplored. Here, we used flow cytometry to investigate the alterations in immune cell subsets in adenomyotic uteri and analyze the phenotype and function of abnormal immune cells. We found that an increase in cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T-cell number was the predominant alteration in ectopic lesions in patients with adenomyosis and was significantly associated with the severity of adenomyosis. Importantly, we identified an exhausted natural killer group protein 2A (NKG2A)+CD8+ T-cell subset that was associated with the severity of adenomyosis and found that the number of these cells was significantly increased in the eutopic endometrium and ectopic lesions. In addition, the increases in the expression of NKG2A ligand histocompatibility leucocyte antigen E and interleukin-15 in glandular epithelial cells in the adenomyotic microenvironment might contribute to CD8+ T-cell exhaustion by promoting NKG2A expression on CD8+ T cells or inhibiting the effector function of these cells. In conclusion, our data revealed a previously unrecognized role for NKG2A+CD8+ T-cell exhaustion in the pathogenesis of adenomyosis, indicating that therapeutic interventions designed to target and reinvigorate exhausted CD8+ T cells may be beneficial for patients with adenomyosis.
BACKGROUND: Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) is the most common cause of non-relapse mortality (NRM) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). CD4+ follicular helper T (Tfh) cells, specialized providers of T cell help to B cells, play a vital role in GVHD pathogenesis. B-cell lymphoma-6 (Bcl-6) transcription factor has been shown to be required for Tfh-mediated germinal center reactions. In this study, we would like to evaluate the effect of Bcl-6 on Tfh function in sclerodermatous cGVHD and the efficacy of Bcl-6 inhibitors (Bcl-6i) for treating a minor histocompatibility complex (miHC) mismatch model of sclerodermatous cGVHD (scl-cGVHD).METHODS: A minor histocompatibility haploidentical model of scl-cGVHD was established and received intraperitoneal injection of 79-6, a small-molecule inhibitor of Bcl-6. The clinical manifestations and survival times of cGVHD mice were recorded. The histological assessment was performed by hematoxylin-eosin (HE) and Masson's trichrome staining on the skin and lung tissues. Tfh cells and germinal center B cells in the spleen and peripheral blood were detected by flow cytometry. The cellular markers were immunostained in different organs. ELISA was performed to detect cytokine secretion.RESULTS: Bcl-6 inhibition by 79-6 improved the clinical manifestation of scl-cGVHD mice and prolonged their survival. The histopathologic damage, particular the fibrotic changes of scl-cGVHD mice was significantly relieved after 79-6 treatment. Furthermore, 79-6 treatment not only suppressed the development and function of Tfh and Tph cells in the peripheral blood, but also reduced the survival of Tfh cells in the spleen. Moreover, 79-6 decreased the frequency of GC plasmocytes accompanied by a reduction in IL-21.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that Bcl-6 inhibitor could prevent murine sclerodermatous chronic graft-versus-host disease by abrogating T follicular helper differentiation and suppressing the function of GC B cells, indicating that Bcl-6 inhibition may be a potential treatment for patients with cGVHD.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Clinical overlap is observed between multiple sclerosis (MS) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein immunoglobulin-G (MOG-IgG) associated disease (MOGAD) and the difficulty in distinguishing between the two diseases. Here, we measured and compared the readily available neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet to lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and monocyte to lymphocyte ratio (MLR) to determine whether these three biomarkers can help to distinguish MOGAD and MS at disease onset. The impact of these three biomarkers on MOGAD and MS relapse also needs to be explored.METHODS: In this retrospective analysis, we obtained clinical and paraclinical data from the first attacks of MOGAD (N = 31) and MS (N = 50). Electronic medical records were used to collect demographic data (gender, age at onset), clinical symptoms, EDSS at onset, and medical treatments. The primary outcome was relapse within one year of onset. Four hematological parameters were recorded, including neutrophil count, platelet count, lymphocyte count, and monocyte count. NLR, PLR, and MLR were calculated and compared between MOGAD, MS, and HC. Receiver operator curve (ROC) analysis was performed to assess the ability of NLR, PLR, and MLR to distinguish between MOGAD and MS, MOGAD and HC, respectively. A logistic regression analysis was performed to determine the impact of NLR/PLR/MLR on MOGAD/MS relapse within one year of onset.RESULTS: Compared to HC, NLR is significantly higher in MOGAD and MS (p<0.001, p = 0.04, respectively). The PLR and MLR are elevated in MOGAD compared to HC (p<0.001, p<0.001, respectively), and MLR in MS are also statistically higher than in HC (p = 0.023). It is worth noting that NLR and PLR were much higher in MOGAD compared to MS (p<0.001, p = 0.001, respectively), but a significant difference regarding MLR has not been found between MOGAD and MS. Based on ROC curve analyses, we found that using NLR, PLR, and MLR to discriminate between MOGAD and MS yielded a ROC-plot area under the curve (AUC) value of 0.794, 0.727, and 0.681, respectively. Meanwhile, the AUC of NLR, PLR, and MLR to discriminate between MOGAD and HC were 0.926, 0.772, and 0.786. Furthermore, the logistics analysis revealed a significant positive association between PLR and MOGAD relapse.CONCLUSION: NLR helps differentiate MOGAD and MS in disease onset, and higher PLR was related to MOGAD relapse.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is considered standard treatment for early gastric cancer (EGC), patients with non-curative resection (NCR) of ESD may still require gastrectomy. The systemic immune-inflammation index (SII) showed great potential in predicting the prognosis of gastric cancer patients. This study aims to investigate the predictive validity of SII of NCR in EGC patients.METHODS: We reviewed data from EGC patients who underwent ESD in the past. The relationship between SII and clinicopathologic features was investigated. We used Receiver operating characteristic curves to compare the predictive values of NCR between SII and other inflammation indices. Binary logistic analysis was used to identify independent risk factors for NCR. These factors were then used to construct a predictive nomogram.RESULTS: SII was associated with larger tumor size, male gender, older age, submucosal invasion, and a greater risk of NCR. SII showed better predictivity of NCR than platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR). SII [odds ratio (OR) = 1.003, P = 0.001], NLR (OR = 1.520, P = 0.029), PLR (OR = 1.009, P = 0.010), upper stomach tumors (OR = 16.393, P < 0.001), poorly differentiated type (OR = 29.754, P < 0.001), ulceration (OR = 4.814, P = 0.001), and submucosal invasion (OR = 48.91, P < 0.001) were independent risk factors for NCR. The nomogram model based on these factors exhibited superior concordance and accuracy.CONCLUSION: SII could be considered a simple and effective predictor of NCR of ESD in EGC patients.
Immunological dysregulation in asthma is associated with changes in exposure to microorganisms early in life. Gammaherpesviruses (γHVs), such as Epstein-Barr virus, are widespread human viruses that establish lifelong infection and profoundly shape host immunity. Using murid herpesvirus 4 (MuHV-4), a mouse γHV, we show that after infection, lung-resident and recruited group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) exhibit a reduced ability to expand and produce type 2 cytokines in response to house dust mites, thereby contributing to protection against asthma. In contrast, MuHV-4 infection triggers GM-CSF production by those lung ILC2s, which orders the differentiation of monocytes (Mos) into alveolar macrophages (AMs) without promoting their type 2 functions. In the context of γHV infection, ILC2s are therefore essential cells within the pulmonary niche that imprint the tissue-specific identity of Mo-derived AMs and shape their function well beyond the initial acute infection.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) have been shown to play an important role during immune responses, ranging from initial viral control through the production of type I interferons to antigen presentation. However, recent studies uncovered unexpected heterogeneity among pDCs. We identified a previously uncharacterized immune subset, referred to as pDC-like cells, that not only resembles pDCs but also shares conventional DC (cDC) features. We show that this subset is a circulating precursor distinct from common DC progenitors, with prominent cDC2 potential. Our findings from human CD2-iCre and CD300c-iCre lineage tracing mouse models suggest that a substantial fraction of cDC2s originates from pDC-like cells, which can therefore be referred to as pre-DC2. This precursor subset responds to homeostatic cytokines, such as macrophage colony stimulating factor, by expanding and differentiating into cDC2 that efficiently prime T helper 17 (TH17) cells. Development of pre-DC2 into CX3CR1+ ESAM- cDC2b but not CX3CR1- ESAM+ cDC2a requires the transcription factor KLF4. Last, we show that, under homeostatic conditions, this developmental pathway regulates the immune threshold at barrier sites by controlling the pool of TH17 cells within skin-draining lymph nodes.
Various aspects of the in vitro culture conditions can impact the functional response of immune cells. For example, it was shown that a Ca2+ concentration of at least 1.5 mM during in vitro stimulation is needed for optimal cytokine production by conventional αβ T cells. Here we extend these findings by showing that also unconventional T cells (invariant Natural Killer T cells, mucosal-associated invariant T cells, γδ T cells), as well as B cells, show an increased cytokine response following in vitro stimulation in the presence of elevated Ca2+ concentrations. This effect appeared more pronounced with mouse than with human lymphoid cells and did not influence their survival. A similarly increased cytokine response due to elevated Ca2+ levels was observed with primary human monocytes. In contrast, primary human monocyte-derived macrophages, either unpolarized (M0) or polarized into M1 or M2 macrophages, displayed increased cell death in the presence of elevated Ca2+ concentrations. Furthermore, elevated Ca2+ concentrations promoted phenotypic M1 differentiation by increasing M1 markers on M1 and M2 macrophages and decreasing M2 markers on M2 macrophages. However, the cytokine production of macrophages, again in contrast to the lymphoid cells, was unaltered by the Ca2+ concentration. In summary, our data demonstrate that the Ca2+ concentration during in vitro cultures is an important variable to be considered for functional experiments and that elevated Ca2+ levels can boost cytokine production by both mouse and human lymphoid cells.
OBJECTIVES: Takayasu's arteritis (TAK) is a progressive autoimmune vasculitis that mainly affects the aorta and its major branches. While recent studies have identified proinflammatory T cells, including Th1 and Th17 cells, as the dominant infiltrates in the arterial adventitia, mechanisms underpinning the maintenance of such vasculogenic T cells remain obscure.METHODS: 75 patients with TAK and 30 age-matched healthy controls were enrolled in this study. CD4 T cells from TAK patients were activated with anti-CD3/CD28 beads to mimic vasculogenic T cells. The survival of T cells was detected by quantifying Annexin-V+7-AAD+ fractions. Expression and activity of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) were determined using phosflow cytometry and immunoblots. Specific inhibitors and shRNA were applied to block the function of AMPK and Notch1, while erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) were used to reflect the disease activity of TAK patients.RESULTS: T cells from TAK patients undergo spontaneous differentiation into vasculogenic proinflammatory T cells with prolonged survival capacity. Mechanistic explorations uncover AMPK hyperactivity in such T cells from TAK patients, promoting mitochondrial metabolism and their survival. Such AMPK hyperactivity results from the robust Notch1 activity in TAK T cells. Accordingly, T cell-intrinsic phosphor-AMPK reflects the disease activity in clinical TAK patients.CONCLUSIONS: AMPK hyperactivity is essential for maintaining the vasculogenic proinflammatory T cells in TAK patients, serving as a promising therapeutic target for TAK management.
DOI: 10.1101/2023.02.17.528996PMCID: PMC9949165PMID: 36824953
Update in    Elife. 2023 Apr 11;12:
BACKGROUND: Sarcoidosis is an inflammatory disease that affects multiple organs. Cell analysis from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) is a valuable tool in the diagnostic workup and differential diagnosis of sarcoidosis. Besides the expansion of lymphocyte expression-specific receptor segments (Vα2.3 and Vβ22) in some patients with certain HLA types, the relation between sarcoidosis susceptibility and BAL cell populations' quantitative levels is not well-understood.METHODS: Quantitative levels defined by cell concentrations of BAL cells and CD4+/CD8+ ratio were evaluated together with genetic variants associated with sarcoidosis in 692 patients with extensive clinical data. Genetic variants associated with clinical phenotypes, Löfgren's syndrome (LS) and non-Löfgren's syndrome (non-LS), were examined separately. An association test via linear regression using an additive model adjusted for sex, age, and correlated cell type was applied. To infer the biological function of genetic associations, enrichment analysis of expression quantitative trait (eQTLs) across publicly available eQTL databases was conducted.RESULTS: Multiple genetic variants associated with sarcoidosis were significantly associated with quantitative levels of BAL cells. Specifically, LS genetic variants, mainly from the HLA locus, were associated with quantitative levels of BAL macrophages, lymphocytes, CD3+ cells, CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells, CD4+/CD8+ ratio, neutrophils, basophils, and eosinophils. Non-LS genetic variants were associated with quantitative levels of BAL macrophages, CD8+ cells, basophils, and eosinophils. eQTL enrichment revealed an influence of sarcoidosis-associated SNPs and regulation of gene expression in the lung, blood, and immune cells.CONCLUSION: Genetic variants associated with sarcoidosis are likely to modulate quantitative levels of BAL cell types and may regulate gene expression in immune cell populations. Thus, the role of sarcoidosis-associated gene-variants may be to influence cellular phenotypes underlying the disease immunopathology.
Author information:(1)Department of General Surgery,Xinhua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine,Shanghai 200092,China.(2)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery,the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University,Xi'an 710061,China.(3)Department of Biliary Surgery, the Third Affiliated Hospital of Naval Medical University,Shanghai 200433,China.(4)Department of Liver Transplantation,West China Hospital,Sichuan University,Chengdu 610041,China.(5)Department of Hepatobiliary Oncology,Tianjin Medical University Cancer Hospital,Tianjin 300060,China.(6)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery,the Southwest Hospital of Army Medical University,Chongqing 400038,China.(7)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery,Hunan Provincial People's Hospital,Changsha 410005,China.(8)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreas Liver Transplantation Surgery,the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University,Zhengzhou 450052,China.(9)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery,Zhongda Hospital,Southeast University,Nanjing 210009,China.(10)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery,Affiliated Hospital of North Sichuan Medical College,Nanchong 637000,China.
Specific microbial signals induce the differentiation of a distinct pool of RORγ+ regulatory T (Treg) cells crucial for intestinal homeostasis. We discovered highly analogous populations of microbiota-dependent Treg cells that promoted tissue regeneration at extra-gut sites, notably acutely injured skeletal muscle and fatty liver. Inflammatory meditators elicited by tissue damage combined with MHC-class-II-dependent T cell activation to drive the accumulation of gut-derived RORγ+ Treg cells in injured muscle, wherein they regulated the dynamics and tenor of early inflammation and helped balance the proliferation vs. differentiation of local stem cells. Reining in IL-17A-producing T cells was a major mechanism underlying the rheostatic functions of RORγ+ Treg cells in compromised tissues. Our findings highlight the importance of gut-trained Treg cell emissaries in controlling the response to sterile injury of non-mucosal tissues.
RNA splicing, a crucial transesterification-based process by which noncoding regions are removed from premature RNA to create mature mRNA, regulates various cellular functions, such as proliferation, survival, and differentiation. Clinical and functional studies over the past 10 y have confirmed that mutations in RNA splicing factors are among the most recurrent genetic abnormalities in hematologic neoplasms, including myeloid malignancies, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, mantle cell lymphoma, and clonal hematopoiesis. These findings indicate an important role for splicing factor mutations in the development of clonal hematopoietic disorders. Mutations in core or accessory components of the RNA spliceosome complex alter splicing sites in a manner of change of function. These changes can result in the dysregulation of cancer-associated gene expression and the generation of novel mRNA transcripts, some of which are not only critical to disease development but may be also serving as potential therapeutic targets. Furthermore, multiple studies have revealed that hematopoietic cells bearing mutations in splicing factors depend on the expression of the residual wild-type allele for survival, and these cells are more sensitive to reduced expression of wild-type splicing factors or chemical perturbations of the splicing machinery. These findings suggest a promising possibility for developing novel therapeutic opportunities in tumor cells based on mutations in splicing factors. Here, we combine current knowledge of the mechanistic and functional effects of frequently mutated splicing factors in normal hematopoiesis and the effects of their mutations in hematologic malignancies. Moreover, we discuss the development of potential therapeutic opportunities based on these mutations.
Our previous phase Ib trial (NCT03222440) showed that radiotherapy plus the anti-PD-1 antibody camrelizumab is a safe and feasible first-line therapy for locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. In this study, we divided peripheral CD8 T-cell differentiation subsets into 4 subpopulations (naive T cells, central memory T cells, effector memory T cells, and CD45RA+ effector memory T cells). We then investigated the influence of radiotherapy plus camrelizumab therapy on the proportions of the 4 subsets and their PD-1, TIGIT, and CTLA-4 expression as well as their proliferative activity and compared the effects with those of concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Nineteen and 15 patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma who received radiotherapy plus camrelizumab therapy and concurrent chemoradiotherapy, respectively, were enrolled in this study. We isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells from these patients before treatment and longitudinally after the delivery of 40 Gy radiotherapy. Flow cytometry was conducted to detect peripheral CD8 T-cell subsets and PD-1, TIGIT, CTLA-4, and Ki67 expression levels in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. We found that radiotherapy plus camrelizumab therapy did not change the proportions of the 4 subsets or the expression of CTLA-4, but this therapy decreased PD-1 expression by the 4 subsets and TIGIT expression by effector memory T cells, as well as significantly enhanced the proliferative activity of CD8 T cells, whereas concurrent chemoradiotherapy produced different effects. In addition, we further identified peripheral biomarkers that potentially predict the outcome of radiotherapy plus camrelizumab therapy.
INTRODUCTION: Meningiomas have varying degrees of aggressive behavior. Some systemic hematologic makers are associated with malignancy, but their value in predicting aggressive meningioma behavior is not fully understood.OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association between preoperative markers such as neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), neutrophil-monocyte ratio (NMR), monocyte-lymphocyte ratio (MLR), platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and prognostic nutritional index (PNI), and diagnostic and prognostic factors including WHO grade, proliferation index, presence of edema on preoperative MRI, and tumor recurrence.METHODS: A retrospective review of patients treated between 2000 and 2019 with a preoperative complete blood count (CBC) differential lab draw before intracranial meningioma resection was conducted. All preoperative steroid dosages were converted to dexamethasone equivalents. Primary outcomes included presence/absence of perilesional edema, WHO grade, Ki-67/MIB-index, and recurrence. Univariate and multivariable regression analyses were conducted.RESULTS: A total of 209 meningioma patients were included. Of these, 143 (68 %) were WHO grade I, 61 (29 %) grade II and 5 (2 %) were grade III. Recurrence was reported in 19 (9.1 %) tumors. No hematologic markers were associated with recurrence. In separate multivariable logistic analyses, no biomarkers were associated with perilesional edema or WHO grade. MLR was associated with higher MIB-index (p = 0.018, OR 6.57, 95 % CI 1.37-30.91).CONCLUSION: Most hematologic markers were not associated with meningioma invasiveness, grade, proliferative index, or aggressiveness. Preoperative MLR was associated with high proliferation index in patients undergoing surgery for intracranial meningioma. Higher MLR could be a surrogate for meningioma proliferation and has potential to be used as an adjunct for risk-stratifying meningiomas.
Psoriasis is an autoimmune, chronic, inflammatory skin condition mediated by T cells. It differs from other inflammatory conditions by causing significant alterations in epidermal cell proliferation and differentiation that are both complicated and prominent. The lack of an appropriate animal model has significantly hindered studies into the pathogenic mechanisms of psoriasis since animals other than humans typically do not exhibit the complex phenotypic features of human psoriasis. A variety of methods, including spontaneous mutations, drug-induced mutations, genetically engineered animals, xenotransplantation models, and immunological reconstitution approaches, have all been employed to study specific characteristics in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. Although some of these approaches have been used for more than 50 years and far more models have been introduced recently, they have surprisingly not yet undergone detailed validation. Despite their limitations, these models have shown a connection between keratinocyte hyperplasia, vascular hyperplasia, and a cell-mediated immune response in the skin. The xenotransplantation of diseased or unaffected human skin onto immune-compromised recipients has also significantly aided psoriasis research. This technique has been used in a variety of ways to investigate the function of T lymphocytes and other cells, including preclinical therapeutic studies. The design of pertinent in vivo and in vitro psoriasis models is currently of utmost concern and a crucial step toward its cure. This article outlines the general approach in the development of psoriasis-related animal models, aspects of some specific models, along with their strengths and limitations.
HIV-1 usually utilizes CCR5 as its coreceptor and rarely switches to a CXCR4-tropic virus until the late stage of infection. CCR5+CD4+ T cells are the major virus-producing cells in viremic individuals as well as SIV-infected nonhuman primates. The differentiation of CCR5+CD4+ T cells is associated with the availability of IL-15, which increases during acute HIV-1 infection. Here, we report that CCR5 was expressed by CD4+ T cells exhibiting effector or effector memory phenotypes with high expression levels of the IL-2/IL-15 receptor common β and γ chains. IL-15, but not IL-7, improved the survival of CCR5+CD4+ T cells, drove their expansion, and facilitated HIV-1 infection in vitro and in humanized mice. Our study suggests that IL-15 plays confounding roles in HIV-1 infection, and future studies on the IL-15-based boosting of anti-HIV-1 immunity should carefully examine the potential effects on the expansion of HIV-1 reservoirs in CCR5+CD4+ T cells.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Peripheral nervous system vasculitides (PNSV) are a heterogeneous group of disorders with a clinical subset that may differ in prognosis and therapy. We provide a comprehensive update on the clinical assessment, diagnosis, complications, treatment, and follow-up of PNSV.RECENT FINDINGS: Progress in neuroimaging, molecular testing, and peripheral nerve biopsy has improved clinical assessment and decision-making of PNSV, also providing novel insights on how to prevent misdiagnosis and increase diagnostic certainty. Advances in imaging techniques, allowing to clearly display the vessel walls, have also enhanced the possibility to differentiate inflammatory from non-inflammatory vascular lesions, while recent histopathology data have identified the main morphological criteria for more accurate diagnosis and differential diagnoses. Overall, the identification of peculiar morphological findings tends to improve diagnostic accuracy by defining a clearer boundary between systemic and non-systemic neuropathies. Therefore, the definition of epineurium vessel wall damage, type of vascular lesion, characterization of lymphocyte populations, antibodies, and inflammatory factors, as well as the identification of direct nerve damage or degeneration, are the common goals for pathologists and clinicians, who will both benefit for data integration and findings translation. Nevertheless, to date, treatment is still largely empiric and, in some cases, unsatisfactory, thus often precluding precise prognostic prediction. In this context, new diagnostic techniques and multidisciplinary management will be essential in the proper diagnosis and prompt management of PNSV, as highlighted in the present review. Thirty to fifty percent of all patients with vasculitis have signs of polyneuropathy. Neuropathies associated with systemic vasculitis are best managed according to the guidelines of the underlying disease because appropriate workup and initiation of treatment can reduce morbidity. Steroids, or in severe or progressive cases, cyclophosphamide pulse therapy is the standard therapy in non-systemic vasculitic neuropathies. Some patients need long-term immunosuppression. The use of novel technologies for high-throughput genotyping will permit to determine the genetic influence of related phenotypes in patients with PNSV.
Coordinated gene expression programs enable development and function of T cell subsets. Follicular helper T (Tfh) cells coordinate humoral immune responses by providing selective and instructive cues to germinal center B cells. Here, we show that AP-1-independent NFAT gene expression, a program associated with hyporesponsive T cell states like anergy or exhaustion, is also a distinguishing feature of Tfh cells. NFAT signaling in Tfh cells, maintained by NFAT2 autoamplification, is required for their survival. ICOS signaling upregulates Bcl6 and induces an AP-1-independent NFAT program in primary T cells. Using lupus-prone mice, we demonstrate that genetic disruption or pharmacologic inhibition of NFAT signaling specifically impacts Tfh cell maintenance and leads to amelioration of autoantibody production and renal injury. Our data provide important conceptual and therapeutic insights into the signaling mechanisms that regulate Tfh cell development and function.
Food-derived carbon quantum dots (CQDs) can relatively easily be synthesized and chemically manipulated for a broad spectrum of biomedical applications. However, their toxicity may hinder their actual use. Here, Spinacia oleracea-derived CQDs i.e., CQD-1 and CQD-2, were synthesized by means of different shredding methods and followed by a microwave-assisted hydrothermal approach. Subsequently, these CQDs were analyzed in vitro and in an in vivo mice model to test their biocompatibility and potential use as bioimaging agents and for activation of osteogenic differentiation. When comparing CQD-1 and CQD-2, it was found that CQD-1 exhibited 7.6 times higher photoluminescent (PL) emission intensity around 411 nm compared to CQD-2. Besides, it was found that the size distribution of CQD-1 was 2.05 ± 0.08 nm, compared with 2.14 ± 0.04 nm for CQD-2. Upon exposure to human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs) in vitro, CQD-1 was endocytosed into the cytoplasm and significantly increased the differentiation of hBMSCs up to 10 μg mL-1 after 7 and 14 days. Apparently, the presence of relatively low doses of CQD-1 showed virtually no toxic or histological effects in the major organs in vivo. In contrast, high doses of CQD-1 (1 mg mL-1) caused cell death in vitro ranging from 35% on day 1 to 80% on day 3 post-exposure, and activated the apoptotic machinery and increased lymphocyte aggregates in the liver tissue. In conclusion, S. oleracea-derived CQDs have the potential for biomedical applications in bioimaging and activation of stem cells osteogenic differentiation. Therefore, it is postulated that CQD-1 from S. oleracea remains potential prospective material at appropriate doses and specifications.
INTRODUCTION: Spondylarthritis (SpA) development in HLA-B27/human β2-microglobulin transgenic rat (B27-rat) is correlated with altered conventional dendritic cell (cDC) function that promotes an inflammatory pattern of CD4+T cells, including a biased expansion of pro-inflammatory Th17 population and imbalance of regulatory T cells cytokine profile. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that cDCs from B27-rats under express IL-27, an anti-inflammatory cytokine which induces the differentiation of IL-10+ regulatory T cells and inhibits Th17 cells.METHODS: Here, we first investigated whether in vitro addition of exogenous IL-27 could reverse the inflammatory pattern observed in CD4+ T cells. Next, we performed preclinical assay using IL-27 to investigate whether in vivo treatment could prevent SpA development in B27-rats.RESULTS: in vitro addition of IL-27 to cocultures of cDCs and CD4+ T cell subsets from B27-rats reduced IL-17 and enhanced IL-10 production by T cells. Likewise, IL-27 inhibited the production of IL-17 by CD4+ T cells from SpA patients. Interestingly, in vivo treatment with recombinant IL-27 starting before SpA onset, inhibited SpA development in B27-rats through the suppression of IL-17/TNF producing CD4+ T cells.DISCUSSION: Overall, our results reveal a potent inhibitory effect of IL-27 and highlight this cytokine as a promising new therapeutic target in SpA, especially for SpA patients non responders to currently approved biotherapies.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), which is a disease that causes multifocal inflammatory demyelination of the central nervous system, occurs predominantly in children and young adults. We report an autopsy case of an elderly man with brainstem ADEM that progressed over a period of about 3 months. An 82-year-old man developed disturbance of consciousness, dysphagia, and ataxic gait over a period of about 3 months. He was admitted to another hospital for aspiration pneumonia and recovered but was transferred to our hospital due to prolonged disturbance of consciousness. The patient was able to follow simple commands but had a tendency to somnolence. In addition to meningeal stimulation signs, the patient had left-dominant upper and lower limb ataxia and right-dominant limb spasticity. Brain FLAIR/T2-weighted imaging showed high-intensity lesions from the brainstem to the middle cerebellar peduncle bilaterally, medulla oblongata and upper cervical spinal cord, and T1-weighted imaging revealed contrast-enhanced lesions in the left middle cerebellar peduncle and cervical spinal cord. Although spinal fluid examination revealed elevated proteins, other laboratory tests indicated no evidence of infection, vasculitis, collagen diseases or tumors, and anti-ganglioside, anti-AQP4 and anti-MOG antibodies were negative. After admission, the patient again developed aspiration pneumonia, which progressed to acute respiratory distress syndrome, and he died on the 15th day of hospitalization. Autopsy findings indicated acute and subacute demyelination mainly in the brainstem and cerebellum, and perivascular lymphocyte and macrophage infiltration in the areas of demyelination. A postmortem diagnosis of ADEM was made based on the generally monophasic course of the disease and the absence of regenerating myelinated sheaths. There are very few reports of elderly patients with brainstem ADEM. ADEM should be considered as a differential diagnosis in patients with brainstem encephalitis.
The germinal center (GC) reaction is a key process during an adaptive immune response to T cell specific antigens. GCs are specialized structures within secondary lymphoid organs, in which B cell proliferation, somatic hypermutation and antibody affinity maturation occur. As a result, high affinity antibody secreting plasma cells and memory B cells are generated. An effective GC response needs interaction between multiple cell types. Besides reticular cells and follicular dendritic cells, particularly B cells, T follicular helper (Tfh) cells as well as T follicular regulatory (Tfr) cells are a key player during the GC reaction. Whereas Tfh cells provide help to GC B cells in selection processes, Tfr cells, a specialized subset of regulatory T cells (Tregs), are able to suppress the GC reaction maintaining the balance between immune activation and tolerance. The formation and function of GCs is regulated by a complex network of signals and molecules at multiple levels. In this review, we highlight recent developments in GC biology by focusing on the transcriptional program regulating the GC reaction. This review focuses on the transcriptional co-activator BOB.1/OBF.1, whose important role for GC B, Tfh and Tfr cell differentiation became increasingly clear in recent years. Moreover, we outline how deregulation of the GC transcriptional program can drive lymphomagenesis.
Age/autoimmunity-associated B cells (ABCs) are a novel B cell subpopulation with a unique transcriptional signature and cell surface phenotype. They are not sensitive to BCR but rely on TLR7 or TLR9 in the context of T cell-derived cytokines for the differentiation. It has been established that aberrant expansion of ABCs is linked to the pathogenesis of systemic autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus. Recently, we and other groups have shown that increased ABCs is associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) disease activity and have demonstrated their pathogenic role in RA, indicating that targeting specific B cell subsets is a promising strategy for the treatment of inflammatory arthritis. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge of ABCs, focusing on their emerging role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory arthritis. A deep understanding of the biology of ABCs in the context of inflammatory settings in vivo will ultimately contribute to the development of novel targeted therapies for the treatment of inflammatory arthritis.
INTRODUCTION: The BNT162b2 mRNA-based vaccine has shown high efficacy in preventing COVID-19 infection but there are limited data on the types and persistence of the humoral and T cell responses to such a vaccine.METHODS: Here, we dissect the vaccine-induced humoral and cellular responses in a cohort of six healthy recipients of two doses of this vaccine.RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Overall, there was heterogeneity in the spike-specific humoral and cellular responses among vaccinated individuals. Interestingly, we demonstrated that anti-spike antibody levels detected by a novel simple automated assay (Jess) were strongly correlated (r=0.863, P<0.0001) with neutralizing activity; thus, providing a potential surrogate for neutralizing cell-based assays. The spike-specific T cell response was measured with a newly modified T-spot assay in which the high-homology peptide-sequences cross-reactive with other coronaviruses were removed. This response was induced in 4/6 participants after the first dose, and all six participants after the second dose, and remained detectable in 4/6 participants five months post-vaccination. We have also shown for the first time, that BNT162b2 vaccine enhanced T cell responses also against known human common viruses. In addition, we demonstrated the efficacy of a rapid ex-vivo T cell expansion protocol for spike-specific T cell expansion to be potentially used for adoptive-cell therapy in severe COVID-19, immunocompromised individuals, and other high-risk groups. There was a 9 to 13.7-fold increase in the number of expanded T cells with a significant increase of anti-spike specific response showing higher frequencies of both activation and cytotoxic markers. Interestingly, effector memory T cells were dominant in all four participants' CD8+ expanded memory T cells; CD4+ T cells were dominated by effector memory in 2/4 participants and by central memory in the remaining two participants. Moreover, we found that high frequencies of CD4+ terminally differentiated memory T cells were associated with a greater reduction of spike-specific activated CD4+ T cells. Finally, we showed that participants who had a CD4+ central memory T cell dominance expressed a high CD69 activation marker in the CD4+ activated T cells.
BACKGROUND: The clinical management of persistent medical conditions affecting Ebola survivors, generally described as a post-Ebola syndrome, remains a public health concern. We aimed to analyze Ebola survivors' laboratory biomarkers as compared to their non-infected household relatives to identify biomarkers that could guide the identification of survivors at increased risk of developing severe at odds with the non-severe post-Ebola syndrome.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data were extracted from medical records of the Ebola survivors clinic, and we included only Ebola survivor's parameters recorded during the first baseline follow-up visit 2 weeks interval after their second negative PCR result. Moreover, household non-infected family contacts of survivors visiting the clinic during the same period were recruited as community control.RESULTS: The mean age of survivors was 32.65 (IQR: 15.5, 38.25) years, and Ebola IgG immunoglobulin was detected in all, thus confirming their status. The statistical significance (all p < 0.05) observed in monocyte percentage (MONO%), cluster of differentiation 4 percentage (CD4%), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), creatinine (CREA), and creatinine kinase (C-kinase) proved to be clinically significant as compared to the household relatives' group. Interestingly, the linear regression analysis indicated that the duration at ETU was negatively associated with lymphocyte percentage with a 5% lymphocyte decrease per day spent at ETU. Finally, there was a significant (p < 0.05) association between hematological (Hb, PCV, MCV, MCH), biochemical (ALT, CREA, C-kinase, T-cholesterol, triglycerides) parameters and the risk of developing severe complications.CONCLUSION: We recommend clinicians closely monitor Hb, PCV, MCV, MCH, ALT, CREA, C-kinase, T-cholesterol, triglycerides and lymphocytes as clinically relevant laboratory biomarkers to identify survivors at higher risk of developing severe post-acute syndrome upon discharge from Ebola treatment unit including headache, abdominal pain, chest pain, ocular complication, arthralgia, hearing difficulty and erectile dysfunction which can impact health-related quality of life among Ebola survivors.
INTRODUCTION: Smoking is known to affect whole-blood expression and methylation profiles. Although whole-genome methylation studies indicated that effects observed in blood may be driven by changes within leukocyte subtypes, these phenomena have not been explored using expression profiling.MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study reanalyzed data from the Correlated Expression and Disease Association Research (CEDAR) patient cohort recruited by Momozawa et al. (E-MTAB-6667). Data from gene expression profiling of immunomagnetically sorted CD4+, CD8+, CD14+, CD15+, and CD19+ cells were processed. Differential expression analyses were conducted in each immune cell type, followed by gene ontology analysis and supplementary investigations.RESULTS: Ninety-four differentially expressed genes were found (CD8+ n = 58, CD14+ n = 20, CD4+ n = 14, CD19+ n = 2). Two key smoking-related genes were overexpressed in specific cell types: LRRN3 (CD4+, CD8+) and MMP25 (CD8+, CD14+). In CD4+ cells smoking was associated with reduced expression of the NK cell receptor KLRB1, suggesting CD4+ subpopulation shifts and differences in interferon signaling (reduced IRF1 and IL18RAP in smokers). Key results and their integration with an immune protein-protein interaction network revealed that smoking influences integrins in CD8+ cells (ITGB7, ITGAL, ITGAM, ITGB2). C-type lectin CLEC4A was reduced in CD8+ cells and CLEC10A was increased in CD14+ cells from smokers; moreover, CLEC5A (CD8+), CLEC7A (CD8+) and CLEC9A (CD19+) were related to smoking in supplementary analyses. CD14+ cells from smokers exhibited overexpression of LDLR and the formyl peptide receptor FPR3.CONCLUSIONS: Smoking specifically alters vital immune regulation genes in lymphocyte subtypes, especially CD4+, CD8+ and CD14+ cells.
The category of non-clear cell renal cell carcinoma (nccRCC) includes several clinically, histologically, and molecularly diverse entities. Traditionally, they comprise type 1 and type 2 papillary, chromophobe, unclassified, and other histologies (medullary, collecting duct carcinoma, and translocation-associated). Molecular knowledge has allowed the identification of some other specific subtypes, such as fumarate hydratase-deficient renal cell carcinoma (RCC) or succinate dehydrogenase-associated RCC. In addition, it has recognized some alterations with a possible predictive role, e.g., MET proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase (MET) alterations in papillary tumors. Standard therapies for the management of advanced clear cell RCC (ccRCC), i.e., vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) pathway inhibitors and mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors, have shown poorer results in nccRCC patients. Therefore, there is a need to improve the efficacy of the treatment for advanced nccRCC. Immunotherapy, especially immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) targeting programmed death 1/programmed death ligand 1 and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), has demonstrated a significant survival benefit in several malignant neoplasias, including ccRCC, with a proportion of patients achieving long survival. The combinations of ICI or ICI + VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are the standard of care in advanced ccRCC. Unfortunately, major pivotal trials did not include specific nccRCC populations. In recent years, several studies have retrospectively or prospectively evaluated ICIs alone or in combination with another ICI or with TKIs in nccRCC patients. In this article, we review data from available trials in order to elucidate clinical and molecular profiles that could benefit from immunotherapy approaches.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant tumor with an extremely poor prognosis, especially in progressive patients. Immunotherapy based on immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is considered to be a promising treatment option for OS. Due to tumor heterogeneity, only a minority of patients benefit from immunotherapy. Therefore, it is urgent to explore a model that can accurately assess the response of OS to immunotherapy. In this study, we obtained the single-cell RNA sequencing datasets of OS patients from public databases and defined 34 cell clusters by dimensional reduction and clustering analysis. PTPRC was applied to identify immune cell clusters and nonimmune cell clusters. Next, we performed clustering analysis on the immune cell clusters and obtained 25 immune cell subclusters. Immune cells were labeled with CD8A and CD8B to obtain CD8+ T cell clusters. Meanwhile, we extracted the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of CD8+ T cell clusters and other immune cell clusters. Furthermore, we constructed a prognostic model (CD8-DEG model) based on the obtained DEGs of CD8+ T cells, and verified the excellent predictive ability of this model for the prognosis of OS. Moreover, we further investigated the value of the CD8-DEG model. The results indicated that the risk score of the CD8-DEG model was an independent risk factor for OS patients. Finally, we revealed that the risk score of the CD8-DEG model correlates with the immune profile of OS and can be used to evaluate the response of OS to immunotherapy. In conclusion, our study revealed the critical role of CD8 cells in OS. The risk score model based on CD8-DEGs can provide guidance for prognosis and immunotherapy of OS.
Leukemia is a proliferative disorder of myeloid and lymphoid cells that may lead to death. Different types of leukemia have been reported, and several genetic and environmental factors are involved in their development. The Philadelphia chromosome causes the most common mutation known as breakpoint cluster region-Abelson oncogene (BCR-ABL1), which shows abnormal protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) activity. Basically, this activity is accountable for activating multiple pathways, including the inhibition of cell differentiation, controlled proliferation, and cell death. As a result of the absence of kinase activity, this mutation leads to the uncontrolled proliferation of leukocytes, causing chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL), and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). This study aimed to evaluate the level of BCR-ABL1 expression in patients with these types of leukemias through qPCR. In brief, PBMCs were isolated from blood samples of patients, RNA was extracted from PBMCs, cDNA was synthesized, and the transcript levels of BCR-ABL1 in patients with each type of leukemia were determined by qPCR. The clinical, demographical, and experimental data were analyzed among CML, AML, and ALL patients. Results: The BCR-ABL1 expression levels are variable in all studied groups and are 90, 30-35, and 1-2.5% in CML, ALL, and AML, respectively. Demographic characteristics such as gender, BMI, age, family history, and clinical parameters along with CBC are also associated with the prevalence and diagnosis of leukemia. In a comparative expression analysis, the expression of BCR-ABL1 is onefold high in AML, but four- and sevenfold high in ALL and CML, respectively, as compared with normal levels. Conclusions: In this study, a significant difference was observed in the expression levels of BCR-ABL1 between CML (p = 0.0043) and ALL (p = 0.0006) and between CML and AML groups, and a high expression of BCR-ABL1 was noted in CML as compared with ALL and AML.
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigate the predictive value of general clinical data, blood test indexes, and ventilation function test indexes on the severity of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).METHODS: A total of 141 clinical characteristics of COPD patients admitted to our hospital were collected. A mild-to-moderate group and a severe group were classified depending on the severity of COPD, and their baseline data were compared. The predictive factors of severe COPD were analyzed by univariate and multivariate logistic regression, and the nomogram model of severe COPD was constructed. The clinical variables, including gender, height, weight, body mass index (BMI), age, course, diabetes, hypertension, smoking history, WBC, NEUT, lymphocyte count (LY), MONO, eosinophil count (EOS), PLT, mean platelet volume (MPV), platelet distribution width (PDW), partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2), and PaCO2, were collected.RESULTS: There were 67 mild-to-moderate COPD patients and 74 severe COPD patients in this study cohort. Severe COPD had a higher white blood cell count (WBC), neutrophil count (NEUT), monocyte count (MONO), platelet count (PLT), neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and a lower partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2). Univariate logistic regression analysis showed that WBC, NEUT, MONO, PLT, and NLR were contributing factors of severe COPD, while PaCO2 was an unfavorable factor of severe COPD. Enter, forward, backward, and stepwise multivariate logistic regression analyses all showed that NEUT and PLT were independent contributing factors to severe COPD. Moreover, the nomogram model had good predictive ability, with an area under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve being 0.881. Good calibration and clinical utility were validated through the calibration plot and the decision curve analysis (DCA) plot, respectively.CONCLUSION: The severity of COPD was correlated with NEUT and PLT, and the nomogram model based on these factors had good predictive performance.
BACKGROUND: Biopsy-based diagnosis is essential for maintaining kidney allograft longevity by ensuring prompt treatment for graft complications. Although histologic assessment remains the gold standard, it carries significant limitations such as subjective interpretation, suboptimal reproducibility, and imprecise quantitation of disease burden. It is hoped that molecular diagnostics could enhance the efficiency, accuracy, and reproducibility of traditional histologic methods.METHODS: Quantitative label-free mass spectrometry analysis was performed on a set of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) biopsies from kidney transplant patients, including five samples each with diagnosis of T-cell-mediated rejection (TCMR), polyomavirus BK nephropathy (BKPyVN), and stable (STA) kidney function control tissue. Using the differential protein expression result as a classifier, three different machine learning algorithms were tested to build a molecular diagnostic model for TCMR.RESULTS: The label-free proteomics method yielded 800-1350 proteins that could be quantified with high confidence per sample by single-shot measurements. Among these candidate proteins, 329 and 467 proteins were defined as differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) for TCMR in comparison with STA and BKPyVN, respectively. Comparing the FFPE quantitative proteomics data set obtained in this study using label-free method with a data set we previously reported using isobaric labeling technology, a classifier pool comprised of features from DEPs commonly quantified in both data sets, was generated for TCMR prediction. Leave-one-out cross-validation result demonstrated that the random forest (RF)-based model achieved the best predictive power. In a follow-up blind test using an independent sample set, the RF-based model yields 80% accuracy for TCMR and 100% for STA. When applying the established RF-based model to two public transcriptome datasets, 78.1%-82.9% sensitivity and 58.7%-64.4% specificity was achieved respectively.CONCLUSIONS: This proof-of-principle study demonstrates the clinical feasibility of proteomics profiling for FFPE biopsies using an accurate, efficient, and cost-effective platform integrated of quantitative label-free mass spectrometry analysis with a machine learning-based diagnostic model. It costs less than 10 dollars per test.
Tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR)-associated factor 3 (TRAF3) is an adapter protein with many context-specific functions. Early studies of lymphocyte TRAF3 hinted at TRAF3's importance for T cell function, but elucidation of specific mechanisms was delayed by early lethality of globally TRAF3-/- mice. Development of a conditional TRAF3-deficient mouse enabled important descriptive and mechanistic insights into how TRAF3 promotes optimal T cell function. Signaling through the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) fails to induce normal proliferation and survival in TRAF3 -/- T cells, and TCR-activated cells in vitro and in vivo have deficient cytokine production. These defects can be traced to incorrect localization and function of negative regulatory phosphatases acting at different parts of the signaling cascade, as can dysregulated effector responses and memory T cell homeostasis in vivo and an enlarged regulatory T cell (Treg) compartment. The important regulatory activity of TRAF3 is also evident at members of the TNFR superfamily and cytokine receptors. Here, we review significant advances in mechanistic understanding of how TRAF3 regulates T cell differentiation and function, through modulation of signaling through the TCR, costimulatory receptors, and cytokine receptors. Finally, we briefly discuss the recent identification of families carrying single allele loss-of-function mutations in TRAF3, and compare the findings in their T cells with the T cell defects identified in mice whose T cells completely lack T cell TRAF3. Together, the body of work describing TRAF3-mediated regulation of T cell effector function and differentiation frame TRAF3 as an important modulator of T cell signal integration.
The tumor microenvironment (TME) is implicated in tumorigenesis, chemoresistance, immunotherapy failure and tumor recurrence. Multiple immunosuppressive cells and soluble secreted cytokines together drive and accelerate TME disorders, T cell immunodeficiency and tumor growth. Thus, it is essential to comprehensively understand the TME status, immune cells involved and key transcriptional factors, and extend this knowledge to therapies that target dysfunctional T cells in the TME. Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) is a unique IRF family member that is not regulated by interferons, instead, is mainly induced upon T-cell receptor signaling, Toll-like receptors and tumor necrosis factor receptors. IRF4 is largely restricted to immune cells and plays critical roles in the differentiation and function of effector cells and immunosuppressive cells, particularly during clonal expansion and the effector function of T cells. However, in a specific biological context, it is also involved in the transcriptional process of T cell exhaustion with its binding partners. Given the multiple effects of IRF4 on immune cells, especially T cells, manipulating IRF4 may be an important therapeutic target for reversing T cell exhaustion and TME disorders, thus promoting anti-tumor immunity. This study reviews the regulatory effects of IRF4 on various immune cells in the TME, and reveals its potential mechanisms, providing a novel direction for clinical immune intervention.
PURPOSE: In recent years, immune checkpoint inhibitors have become a major therapeutic method for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). Growing evidence indicates that tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the tumour microenvironment are a prerequisite for the effectiveness of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade therapy. In this study, we aimed to compare PD-L1 expression and cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) and CD8 TIL infiltration in primary tumours and paired metastases.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Altogether, 111 patients with mCRC who underwent surgery at our hospital were included. PD-L1, CD4, and CD8 expression were detected by immunohistochemistry in a tissue microarray. PD-L1 expression was assessed using the combined positivity score (CPS), and a score ≥1 was judged as positive. The area proportion of TILs with positive staining ≥10% was classified as "high", while <10% was classified as "low".RESULTS: We observed the discordance of PD-L1 expression between primary tumours and paired metastases in 35/111 (31.5%) patients (κ = 0.137, P = 0.142). This heterogeneity was significantly correlated with discordance of CD8 TIL infiltration between primary tumours and paired metastases (P = 0.003). Compared with corresponding colorectal cancer tumours, lung metastases showed more CD8 TIL infiltration (P = 0.022, median: 8.5% vs. 5.0%), whereas liver metastases exhibited less CD8 TIL infiltration (P = 0.028, median: 3.0% vs. 5.0%). Area proportion of CD4+ and CD8+ TIL infiltration in lung metastases were all higher than those in liver metastases (P = 0.005, median: 15.0% vs. 9.0%; P = 0.001, median: 8.5% vs. 3.0%). Compared with p MMR (MSI-L/MS-S) subgroup, area proportion of CD8 TIL infiltration in primary tumours and CD4, CD8 TIL infiltration in paired metastases were all higher in d MMR (MSI-H) group (P = 0.026, median: 15.0% vs 5.0%; P = 0.039, median: 15.0% vs 9.0%; P = 0.015, median: 15.0% vs 5.0%). Preoperative chemo/radiotherapy may increase CD8 TIL infiltration in primary tumours (P = 0.045, median: 10.0% vs. 5.0%). CD8 TIL infiltration in primary tumours was an independent predictive factor for overall survival (HR 0.28, 95% CI 0.09-0.93, P = 0.038).CONCLUSION: Heterogeneity in PD-L1 expression and CD8 TIL infiltration was found between primary tumours and paired metastases in mCRC. CD8 TIL infiltration in primary tumours could independently forecast the overall survival of patients with mCRC.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection may present with fulminant constitutional symptoms, cytopenia(s), and systemic lymphadenopathy, raising clinical suspicion for lymphoma and prompting lymph node and bone marrow biopsies. At the microscopic level, the histopathologic findings in cases of acute EBV lymphadenitis may mimic certain lymphoid neoplasms, creating a range of differential diagnoses and diagnostic pitfalls.We present a case of fulminant EBV infection in an adolescent whose clinical and radiographic findings led to lymph node and bone marrow biopsies to rule out lymphoma. One week after being diagnosed with acute EBV infection (infectious mononucleosis), a 17-year-old Caucasian male presented with worsening symptoms including persistent fever, progressive, painful lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly. A peripheral blood smear showed lymphocytosis with many reactive lymphocytes, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Laboratory studies showed elevated ferritin, triglycerides, and soluble IL-2/CD25. A cervical lymph node biopsy demonstrated an EBV-positive, reactive B-immunoblast proliferation with large atypical lymphoid cells mimicking Reed-Sternberg cells of Hodgkin lymphoma, in addition to patchy vasculitis, coagulative necrosis, and prominent hemophagocytic activity. Bilateral bone marrow biopsies showed a hypercellular marrow with patchy infiltrates of similar EBV-positive, large atypical lymphoid cells, as well as prominent hemophagocytic activity. The diagnosis of acute EBV associated lymphoproliferation with concurrent hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) was rendered.Recognition of common and uncommon clinical presentations of acute EBV infection is essential, particularly when histopathologic findings raise suspicion for a possible hematolymphoid neoplasm. Both the lymph node architectural and viral cytopathic changes observed in EBV lymphadenitis exhibit significant morphologic overlap with classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) and several other lymphomas, including anaplastic large cell lymphoma, diffuse large B cell lymphoma, and angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma. Recognition of immunohistochemical staining patterns in EBV lymphadenitis is critical to avoid misdiagnosis. Conversely, bona fide lymphoma, particularly cHL, can masquerade as EBV infection. We provide a concise discussion and tables of the histopathologic differential diagnosis of EBV lymphadenitis, including cHL and other lymphomas. Pathologists should include acute EBV infection within the differential diagnosis when confronted with clinical and pathologic findings concerning for lymphoma, particularly in adolescents and young adults.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2023 Apr;23(4):201.
Typhimurium infection in mice results in drastic loss of immature CD4- CD8- double negative (DN) and CD4+ CD8+ double positive (DP) thymic subsets compared to mature single positive (SP) subsets. We investigated changes in thymocyte sub-populations post infection with a wild type (WT) virulent strain and ΔrpoS, a virulence-attenuated strain, of Salmonella Typhimurium in C57BL/6 (B6) and Fas-deficient autoimmune-prone lpr mice. The WT strain caused acute thymic atrophy with greater loss of thymocytes in lpr mice compared to B6 mice. Infection with ΔrpoS caused progressive thymic atrophy in B6 and lpr mice. Analysis of thymocyte subsets revealed that immature thymocytes including the DN, immature single positive (ISP), and DP thymocytes underwent extensive loss. SP thymocytes were more resistant to loss in WT-infected B6 mice, whereas WT-infected lpr and ΔrpoS-infected mice exhibited depletion of SP thymocytes. Overall, thymocyte sub-populations exhibited differential susceptibilities depending on bacterial virulence and the host background.
BACKGROUND: Although the prognosis of patients with Takotsubo syndrome (TTS) is relatively favorable, serious complications may occur. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between blood parameters and the occurrence of in-hospital complications.METHODS: Clinical charts of 51 patients with TTS were retrospectively evaluated, and data regarding blood parameters assessed during the first 24 hours of hospitalization were studied.RESULTS: Levels of hemoglobin less than 13 g/dL in men and 12 g/dL in women (P < 0.01), levels of mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) less than 33 g/dL (P = 0.01), and levels of red blood cell distribution width-coefficient of variation higher than 14.5% (P = 0.01) were significantly associated to the occurrence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE). Markers, such as, platelets to lymphocytes ratio, lymphocytes to monocytes ratio, neutrophils to lymphocytes ratio, and white blood cell count to mean platelet volume, were unable to differentiate patients with and without complications (P > 0.05). MCHC and estimated glomerular filtration rate were independent predictors of MACE.CONCLUSIONS: Blood parameters may have a role in the stratification risk of patients with TTS. Patients showing low levels of MCHC and decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate were more likely to have in-hospital MACE. This should encourage physicians to closely monitor blood parameters in patients with TTS.
Evolutionarily conserved, "natural" (n)IgM is broadly reactive to both self and foreign antigens. Its selective deficiency leads to increases in autoimmune diseases and infections. In mice, nIgM is secreted independent of microbial exposure to bone marrow (BM) and spleen B-1 cell-derived plasma cells (B-1PC), generating the majority of nIgM, or by B-1 cells that remain non-terminally differentiated (B-1sec). Thus, it has been assumed that the nIgM repertoire is broadly reflective of the repertoire of body cavity B-1 cells. Studies here reveal, however, that B-1PC generate a distinct, oligoclonal nIgM repertoire, characterized by short CDR3 variable immunoglobulin heavy chain regions, 7-8 amino acids in length, some public, many arising from convergent rearrangements, while specificities previously associated with nIgM were generated by a population of IgM-secreting B-1 (B-1sec). BM, but not spleen B-1PC, or B-1sec also required the presence of TCRαβ CD4 T cells for their development from fetal precursors. Together, the studies identify important previously unknown characteristics of the nIgM pool.
OBJECTIVES: Patients with multisystem inflammatory disease in children (MIS-C) are at risk of developing shock. Our objectives were to determine independent predictors associated with development of delayed shock (≥3 hours from emergency department [ED] arrival) in patients with MIS-C and to derive a model predicting those at low risk for delayed shock.METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cross-sectional study of 22 pediatric EDs in the New York City tri-state area. We included patients meeting World Health Organization criteria for MIS-C and presented April 1 to June 30, 2020. Our main outcomes were to determine the association between clinical and laboratory factors to the development of delayed shock and to derive a laboratory-based prediction model based on identified independent predictors.RESULTS: Of 248 children with MIS-C, 87 (35%) had shock and 58 (66%) had delayed shock. A C-reactive protein (CRP) level greater than 20 mg/dL (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 5.3; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.4-12.1), lymphocyte percent less than 11% (aOR, 3.8; 95% CI, 1.7-8.6), and platelet count less than 220,000/uL (aOR, 4.2; 95% CI, 1.8-9.8) were independently associated with delayed shock. A prediction model including a CRP level less than 6 mg/dL, lymphocyte percent more than 20%, and platelet count more than 260,000/uL, categorized patients with MIS-C at low risk of developing delayed shock (sensitivity 93% [95% CI, 66-100], specificity 38% [95% CI, 22-55]).CONCLUSIONS: Serum CRP, lymphocyte percent, and platelet count differentiated children at higher and lower risk for developing delayed shock. Use of these data can stratify the risk of progression to shock in patients with MIS-C, providing situational awareness and helping guide their level of care.
Memory B cells (MBCs) have a crucial function in providing an enhanced response to repeated infections. Upon antigen encounter, MBC can either rapidly differentiate to antibody secreting cells or enter germinal centers (GC) to further diversify and affinity mature. Understanding how and when MBC are formed, where they reside and how they select their fate upon reactivation has profound implications for designing strategies to improve targeted, next-generation vaccines. Recent studies have crystallized much of our knowledge on MBC but also reported several surprising discoveries and gaps in our current understanding. Here, we review the latest advancements in the field and highlight current unknowns. In particular, we focus on timing and cues leading to MBC generation before and during the GC reaction, discuss how MBC become resident in mucosal tissues, and finally, provide an overview of factors shaping MBC fate-decision upon reactivation in mucosal and lymphoid tissues.
Skeletal muscle wasting, whether related to physiological ageing, muscle disuse or to an underlying chronic disease, is a key determinant to quality of life and mortality. However, cellular basis responsible for increased catabolism in myocytes often remains unclear. Although myocytes represent the vast majority of skeletal muscle cellular population, they are surrounded by numerous cells with various functions. Animal models, mostly rodents, can help to decipher the mechanisms behind this highly dynamic process, by allowing access to every muscle as well as time-course studies. Satellite cells (SCs) play a crucial role in muscle regeneration, within a niche also composed of fibroblasts and vascular and immune cells. Their proliferation and differentiation is altered in several models of muscle wasting such as cancer, chronic kidney disease or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Fibro-adipogenic progenitor cells are also responsible for functional muscle growth and repair and are associated in disease to muscle fibrosis such as in chronic kidney disease. Other cells have recently proven to have direct myogenic potential, such as pericytes. Outside their role in angiogenesis, endothelial cells and pericytes also participate to healthy muscle homoeostasis by promoting SC pool maintenance (so-called myogenesis-angiogenesis coupling). Their role in chronic diseases muscle wasting has been less studied. Immune cells are pivotal for muscle repair after injury: Macrophages undergo a transition from the M1 to the M2 state along with the transition between the inflammatory and resolutive phase of muscle repair. T regulatory lymphocytes promote and regulate this transition and are also able to activate SC proliferation and differentiation. Neural cells such as terminal Schwann cells, motor neurons and kranocytes are notably implicated in age-related sarcopenia. Last, newly identified cells in skeletal muscle, such as telocytes or interstitial tenocytes could play a role in tissular homoeostasis. We also put a special focus on cellular alterations occurring in COPD, a chronic and highly prevalent respiratory disease mainly linked to tobacco smoke exposure, where muscle wasting is strongly associated with increased mortality, and discuss the pros and cons of animal models versus human studies in this context. Finally, we discuss resident cells metabolism and present future promising leads for research, including the use of muscle organoids.
T cell factor 1 (Tcf-1) expressing CD8+ T cells exhibit stem-like self-renewing capacity, rendering them key for immune defense against chronic viral infection and cancer. Yet, the signals that promote the formation and maintenance of these stem-like CD8+ T cells (CD8+SL) remain poorly defined. Studying CD8+ T cell differentiation in mice with chronic viral infection, we identified the alarmin interleukin-33 (IL-33) as pivotal for the expansion and stem-like functioning of CD8+SL as well as for virus control. IL-33 receptor (ST2)-deficient CD8+ T cells exhibited biased end differentiation and premature loss of Tcf-1. ST2-deficient CD8+SL responses were restored by blockade of type I interferon signaling, suggesting that IL-33 balances IFN-I effects to control CD8+SL formation in chronic infection. IL-33 signals broadly augmented chromatin accessibility in CD8+SL and determined these cells' re-expansion potential. Our study identifies the IL-33-ST2 axis as an important CD8+SL-promoting pathway in the context of chronic viral infection.
Comment in    J Exp Med. 2023 May 1;220(5):
B cells within secondary lymphoid tissues encompass a diversity of activation states and multiple maturation processes that reflect antigen recognition and transition through the germinal center (GC) reaction, in which mature B cells differentiate into memory and antibody-secreting cells (ASCs). Here, utilizing single-cell RNA-seq, we identify a range of distinct activation and maturation states of tonsil-derived B cells. In particular, we identify what we believe is a previously uncharacterized CCL4/CCL3 chemokine-expressing B cell population with an expression pattern consistent with B cell receptor/CD40 activation. Furthermore, we present a computational method that leverages regulatory network inference and pseudotemporal modeling to identify upstream transcription factor modulation along a GC-to-ASC axis of transcriptional maturation. Our data set provides valuable insight into diverse B cell functional profiles and will be a useful resource for further studies into the B cell immune compartment.
BACKGROUND: Despite the lack of evidence-based on prospective randomized studies, surgery has become the cornerstone of the treatment in patients with pulmonary oligometastatic sarcomas. Our study aimed to construct a composite prognostic score for metachronous oligometastatic sarcoma patients.METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed on data patients who underwent radical surgery for metachronous metastases in six research institutes from January 2010 to December 2018. The log-hazard ratio (HR) obtained from the Cox model was used to derive weighting factors for a continuous prognostic index designed to identify differential outcome risks.RESULTS: A total of 251 patients were enrolled in the study. In the multivariate analysis, a longer disease-free interval (DFI) and a lower neutrophil-to-lymphocytes ratio (NLR) were predictive of a better overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS). A prognostic score was developed based on DFI and NLR data, identifying 2 risk class groups for DFS (3-years DFS 20.2% for the high-risk group [HRG]and 46.4% for the low-risk group [LRG] [<0.0001]) and 3 risk groups for OS (3 years OS 53.9% for the HRG vs. 76.9% for the intermediate-risk group and 100% of the LRG (p < 0.0001)).CONCLUSION: The proposed prognostic score effectively predicts outcomes for patients with lung metachronous oligo-metastases from the surgically treated sarcoma.
Erratum in    Mol Cell Biochem. 2023 Apr 4;:
Majority of chemotherapeutic agents can elicit antitumor immunity and modulate the composition, density, function, and distribution of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), to influence differential therapeutic responses and prognosis in cancer patients. The clinical success of these agents, particularly anthracyclines like doxorubicin, not only depends on their cytotoxic activity but also by the enhancement of pre-existing immunity primarily through induction of immunogenic cell death (ICD). However, resistance for the induction of ICD either intrinsic or acquired is a major hurdle for most of these drugs. To enhance ICD by these agents, it has become clear that blockade of adenosine production or its signaling need to be specifically targeted as they represent highly resistant mechanisms. Given the prominent role of adenosine mediated immunosuppression and resistance to ICD induction in tumor microenvironment, combination strategies that involve ICD induction and adenosine signaling blockade are further warranted. In the present study, we investigated the antitumor effect of caffeine and doxorubicin combination therapy against 3-MCA-induced and cell-line induced tumors in mice. Our results demonstrated significant tumor growth inhibition by the combination therapy of doxorubicin and caffeine against both carcinogen-induced and cell-line induced tumor models. In addition, significant T-cell infiltration and enhanced ICD induction evidenced by increased intratumoral calreticulin and HMGB1 levels, was observed in B16F10 melanoma mice. The possible mechanism behind the observed antitumor activity might be due to the enhanced ICD induction and subsequent T-cell infiltration by the combination therapy. To prevent the development of resistance and to enhance the antitumor activity of ICD inducing drugs like doxorubicin, combination with adenosine-A2A receptor pathway inhibitors like caffeine might be a potential strategy.
Quantification of leukocyte profiles is among the simplest measures of animal immune function. However, the relationship between H/L ratio and innate immunity and the measure's utility as an index for heterophil function remains to be analyzed. Variants associated with H/L ratio were fine-mapped based on the resequencing of 249 chickens of different generations and an F2 segregating population generated by crossing selection and control lines. H/L ratio in the selection line was associated with a selective sweep of mutations in protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type J (PTPRJ), which affects proliferation and differentiation of heterophils through its downstream regulatory genes. The SNP downstream of PTPRJ (rs736799474) have a universal effect on H/L, with CC homozygotes exhibiting improved heterophil function because of downregulated PTPRJ expression. In short, we systematically elucidated the genetic basis of the change in heterophil function resulting from H/L selection by identifying the regulatory gene (PTPRJ) and causative SNP.
Differential expression of programmed death-1 ligand (PD-L1) and its clinical significance in primary and metastatic ovarian high-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) have not been defined. Thus, we investigated the PD-L1 expression of paired ovarian primary and omental metastatic HGSC and its correlation with CD8 + tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TILs) and patient survival. A total of 212 cases of ovarian HGSCs with matched primary ovarian and metastatic omental tumors accessioned between 2003 and 2018 were selected for further analysis. Using immunohistochemistry, we evaluated the density of CD8 + TILs and expression of PD-L1 on whole tissue sections. Applying tumor proportion score (TPS, cutoff 1%) and combined positive score (CPS, cutoff 1), the prevalence of PD-L1 expression was similar but with significant discordance in ovarian and omental tumor. Using TPS, patients with PD-L1-positive tumors demonstrated significantly worse recurrence free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) than patients with PD-L1-negative tumors. Using CPS, patients with PD-L1-positive ovarian tumors demonstrated significantly worse OS while no significant difference in RFS was found. Patients with PD-L1-positive omental tumors demonstrated significantly worse RFS and OS. Patients with omental PD-L1-positive tumors (TPS) were associated with poorer RFS and OS, while patients with ovarian PD-L1-positive tumors (TPS) were associated with OS not RFS, in COX multivariant analysis. Nonetheless, ovarian and omental high CD8 TILs density was not associated with worse OS in univariant and COX multivariant analysis. PD-L1 expression in ovarian and omental tumor associated with an increased CD8 + TILs density. PD-L1 expression by TPS was better correlated with survival than by CPS, and PD-L1 expression in omental tumors was a stronger prognostic indicator than that in ovarian tumors.
Adoptive therapeutic immune cells, such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells and natural killer cells, have established a new generation of precision medicine based on which dramatic breakthroughs have been achieved in intractable lymphoma treatments. Currently, well-explored approaches focus on autologous cells due to their low immunogenicity, but they are highly restricted by the high costs, time consumption of processing, and the insufficiency of primary cells in some patients. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are cell sources that can theoretically produce indefinite well-differentiated immune cells. Based on the above facts, it may be reasonable to combine the iPSC technology and the CAR design to produce a series of highly controllable and economical "live" drugs. Manufacturing hypoimmunogenic iPSCs by inactivation or over-expression at the genetic level and then arming the derived cells with CAR have emerged as a form of "off-the-shelf" strategy to eliminate tumor cells efficiently and safely in a broader range of patients. This review describes the reasonability, feasibility, superiority, and drawbacks of such approaches, summarizes the current practices and relevant research progress, and provides insights into the possible new paths for personalized cell-based therapies.
B-cell progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) is enriched for a preB cell phenotype, hinting at a specific vulnerability of this cell stage. Two signaling pathways via the preB cell receptor (preBCR) and the interleukin 7 receptor α (IL-7Rα) chain govern the balance between differentiation and proliferation at this stage and both receptor pathways are routinely altered in human BCP-ALL. Here, we review the immunobiology of both the preBCR as well as the IL-7Rα and analyze the human BCP-ALL spectrum in the light of these signaling complexes. Finally, we present a terminology for preBCR signaling modules that distinguishes a pro-proliferative "phase-I" module from a pro-differentiative "phase-II" module. This terminology might serve as a framework to better address shared oncogenic mechanics of preB cell stage BCP-ALL.
Plasma cell gingivitis (PCG) is an inflammatory condition that affects the gingival mucosa of the oral cavity. It is characterized by polyclonal dense plasma cell infiltrate in the connective tissue. Lesions do not respond to prophylactic treatment. Etiology is most likely hypersensitivity to certain antigens (eg, toothpastes, oral rinses, chewing gums, spices). Differential diagnosis of PCG includes reactive, granulomatous, and neoplastic lesions. The diagnostic workup is based on patient's history and the clinicopathologic correlation to rule out mimics of PCG. Dermatologic patch test may be indicated in chronic conditions to identify the allergen.
AIMS: Type 1 diabetes, as a kind of autoimmune diseases, usually results from the broken-down of self-tolerance. Autoimmune regulator (Aire), as a transcription factor, induces peripheral tolerance by regulating Toll-like receptor (TLR) expression in dendritic cells (DCs). Several studies have recently identified a small population of perforin-expressing DCs, which is an important population of tolerogenic DCs (tolDCs) that restricts autoreactive T cells in vivo through a perforin-mediated mechanism. Thus, the present study explored the specific relationship among Aire, perforin-expressing DCs and immune tolerance, as well as their roles in type 1 diabetes.METHODS: We conducted studies based on the Aire-overexpressing bone marrow-derived dendritic cell (BMDC) model. And through in vitro and in vivo experiments to observe that Aire-overexpressing BMDCs which express perforin induce immune tolerance and treat type 1 diabetes via TLR7/8.RESULTS: Aire enhances the expression of perforin in BMDCs after treatment with the TLR7/8 ligand as well as promotes the expression of TLR7/8 and myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88)-dependent pathway molecules. Aire-overexpressing BMDCs mediate apoptosis of allogeneic CD8+ T cells via perforin in vitro. Moreover, Aire-overexpressing BMDCs enhance the therapeutic effect of type 1 diabetes in non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice via perforin and induce apoptosis of autoreactive CD8+ T cells in vivo.CONCLUSIONS: These results provide an experimental basis for comprehensively elucidating the role and significance of Aire expression in peripheral DCs, thereby providing new ideas for the treatment of autoimmune diseases by using Aire as a target to induce the production of perforin-expressing DCs.
Studying the mathematical dynamics of cancer has gained the attention of bioengineers in the past three decades. Different kinds of modelling considering various aspects of treatment have been proposed. In this paper, the key role of Regulatory T cells is discussed and a model in ordinary differential equation (ODE) form is proposed by adding this state to the system dynamics considering chemoimmunotherapy treatment. Regulatory T cells are considered as one of the main tumor cells' tactics to deceive the body's immune system. The improved model is verified mathematically and biologically and fits all criteria in both fields. The results show that entering Regulatory T cells state on cancer mathematical modelling for simulating body cells for chemoimmunotherapy provides a way to identify critical cases more carefully, which a simplified model is unable to accomplish. This point emphasizes the fact that this state must be present in cancer modelling to anticipate immune response more accurately. The advanced system fixed points are obtained by the Newton method and bifurcation diagrams are derived and discussed. New features and remarks are proposed during the journey of developing more accurate models that have the best fit with laboratory data. The sensitivity chart of the model is illustrated and novel aspects of discussions are made with the aim of personalizing a model for a patient and identifying critical conditions based on the chart before any treatment begins. This point enables physicians to determine whether critical conditions have occurred for a patient in a specific treatment or not.
OBJECTIVE: The authors sought to investigate the association between white blood cell counts and acute hydrocephalus in spontaneous nonaneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (nSAH).METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis of 105 consecutive patients with spontaneous nSAH. Univariate and multivariable logistic regression analyses were performed to investigate factors associated with hydrocephalus. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis determined the optimal cutoff to differentiate between patients with and without hydrocephalus. The admission characteristics of hydrocephalic patients with aneurysmal and nSAH were compared.RESULTS: A total of 70 patients met inclusion criteria, of which 21 (30%) presented with hydrocephalus. In univariate logistic regression, leukocytes, neutrophils, lymphocytes, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio, neutrophil-monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratio, and the systemic immune-inflammation (SII) index ([neutrophils × platelets/lymphocytes]/1000) were associated with hydrocephalus. After adjustments, the SII index independently predicted acute hydrocephalus with the highest odds among laboratory values (odds ratio 2.184, P = 0.006). Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis revealed the SII index differentiated between patients with and without hydrocephalus (area under the curve = 0.799, 95% CI: 0.688-0.909, P < 0.001) with an optimal cutoff of 1.385 103/μL. SII indices did not differ between aneurysmal and nSAH patients with hydrocephalus (3.5 vs. 3.6 103/μL, P = 0.795).CONCLUSIONS: A SII index ≥1.385 103/μL on admission predicts acute hydrocephalus in spontaneous nSAH. Hydrocephalic patients with aneurysmal and nSAH exhibit similar SII indices, and thus, an exaggerated inflammatory and thrombotic response follows spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage irrespective of hemorrhage etiology.
Demyelination occurs in multiple central nervous system (CNS) disorders and is tightly associated with neuroinflammation. Pyroptosis is a form of pro-inflammatory and lytic cell death which has been observed in CNS diseases recently. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) have exhibited immunoregulatory and protective effects in CNS diseases. However, the roles of Tregs in pyroptosis and their involvement in LPC-induced demyelination have not been explicated. In our study, Foxp3-diphtheria toxin receptor (DTR) mice treated with diphtheria toxin (DT) or PBS were subjected to two-site lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) injection. Immunofluorescence, western blot, Luxol fast blue (LFB) staining, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and neurobehavior assessments were performed to evaluate the severity of demyelination, neuroinflammation and pyroptosis. Pyroptosis inhibitor was further used to investigate the role of pyroptosis in LPC-induced demyelination. RNA-sequencing was applied to explore the potential regulatory mechanism underlying the involvement of Tregs in LPC-induced demyelination and pyroptosis. Our results showed that depletion of Tregs aggravated microgliosis, inflammatory responses, immune cells infiltration and led to exacerbated myelin injury as well as cognitive defects in LPC-induced demyelination. Microglial pyroptosis was observed after LPC-induced demyelination, which was aggravated by Tregs depletion. Inhibition of pyroptosis by VX765 reversed myelin injury and cognitive function exacerbated by Tregs depletion. RNA-sequencing showed TLR4/myeloid differentiation marker 88 (MyD88) as the central molecules in Tregs-pyroptosis pathway, and refraining TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway alleviated the aggravated pyroptosis induced by Tregs depletion. In conclusion, our findings for the first time indicate that Tregs alleviate myelin loss and improve cognitive function by inhibiting pyroptosis in microglia via TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway in LPC-induced demyelination.
BACKGROUND: The study aimed to explore the value of CT findings and inflammatory indicators in differentiating benign and malignant gallbladder polypoid lesions before surgery.METHODS: The study comprised a total of 113 pathologically confirmed gallbladder polypoid lesions with a maximum diameter ≥ 1 cm (68 benign and 45 malignant), all of which were enhanced CT-scanned within 1 month before surgery. The CT findings and inflammatory indicators of the patients were analyzed by univariate and multivariate logistic regression analysis to identify independent predictors of gallbladder polypoid lesions, and then a nomogram distinguishing benign and malignant gallbladder polypoid lesions was developed by combining these characteristics. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and decision curve were plotted to assess the performance of the nomogram.RESULTS: Base status of the lesion (p < 0.001), plain CT value (p < 0.001), neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) (p = 0.041), and monocyte-lymphocyte ratio (MLR) (p = 0.022) were independent predictors of malignant polypoid lesions of the gallbladder. The nomogram model established by incorporating the above factors had good performance in differentiating and predicting benign and malignant gallbladder polypoid lesions (AUC = 0.964), with sensitivity and specificity of 82.4% and 97.8%, respectively. The DCA demonstrated the important clinical utility of our nomogram.CONCLUSION: CT findings combined with inflammatory indicators can effectively differentiate benign and malignant gallbladder polypoid lesions before surgery, which is valuable for clinical decision-making.
Liver X receptor (LXR) is a critical regulator of cholesterol homeostasis that inhibits T cell receptor (TCR)-induced proliferation by altering intracellular sterol metabolism. However, the mechanisms by which LXR regulates helper T cell subset differentiation remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that LXR is a crucial negative regulator of follicular helper T (Tfh) cells in vivo. Both mixed bone marrow chimera and antigen-specific T cell adoptive cotransfer studies show a specific increase in Tfh cells among LXRβ-deficient CD4+ T cell population in response to immunization and lymphocytic choriomeningitis mammarenavirus (LCMV) infection. Mechanistically, LXRβ-deficient Tfh cells express augmented levels of T cell factor 1 (TCF-1) but comparable levels of Bcl6, CXCR5, and PD-1 in comparison with those of LXRβ-sufficient Tfh cells. Loss of LXRβ confers inactivation of GSK3β induced by either AKT/Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation or Wnt/β-catenin pathway, leading to elevated TCF-1 expression in CD4+ T cells. Conversely, ligation of LXR represses TCF-1 expression and Tfh cell differentiation in both murine and human CD4+ T cells. LXR agonist significantly diminishes Tfh cells and the levels of antigen-specific IgG upon immunization. These findings unveil a cell-intrinsic regulatory function of LXR in Tfh cell differentiation via the GSK3β-TCF1 pathway, which may serve as a promising target for pharmacological intervention in Tfh-mediated diseases.
Bacterial infection is the most common cause for sepsis. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of different bacterial infection on sepsis based on human samples and cellular experiments. Physiological indexes and prognostic information of 121 sepsis patients were analysed based on whether they had a gram-positive or gram-negative bacterial infection. Moreover, murine RAW264.7 macrophages were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or peptidoglycan (PG) to simulate infection with gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria in sepsis, respectively. Exosomes derived from the macrophages were extracted for transcriptome sequencing. In patients with sepsis, most gram-positive bacterial infections were Staphylococcus aureus, and gram-negative infections were Escherichia coli. Gram-negative bacterial infection was significantly associated with high neutrophil and interleukin (IL)-6 levels in blood and shorter prothrombin (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT). Intriguingly, the survival prognosis of sepsis patients was not affected by the type of bacterial infection, but it was significantly related to fibrinogen. Protein transcriptome sequencing of the macrophage-derived exosomes showed that differentially expressed proteins were significantly enriched in megakaryocyte differentiation, leukocyte and lymphocyte-mediated immunity, and complement and coagulation cascade pathways. The complement and coagulation-related proteins were significantly upregulated after LPS induction, which explained the shortened PT and APTT in gram-negative bacterial sepsis. Bacterial infection did not affect mortality in sepsis but did alter the host response. The immune disorder induced by gram-negative infection was more severe than that produced by gram-positive infection. This study provides references for the rapid identification and molecular research of different bacterial infections in sepsis.
Colonic macrophages are critical for maintenance of cluster of differentiation 4 T helper (CD4+ T) cell homeostasis in the intestinal lamina propria. However, the mechanisms by which this process is regulated at the transcriptional level remain unknown. In this study, we found that the transcriptional corepressors transducin-like enhancer of split (TLE)3 and TLE4, but not TLE1 or TLE2, in colonic macrophages controlled homeostasis of CD4+ T-cell pool in the colonic lamina propria. Mice lacking TLE3 or TLE4 in myeloid cells exhibited markedly increased numbers of regulatory T (Treg) and T helper (TH) 17 cells under homeostatic conditions, rendering them more resistant to experimental colitis. Mechanistically, TLE3 and TLE4 negatively regulated matrix metalloproteinase (Mmp)9 transcription in colonic macrophages. Tle3 or Tle4 deficiency in colonic macrophages resulted in upregulated MMP9 production and thus enhanced latent transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) activation, which subsequently led to Treg and TH17 cell expansion. These results advanced our knowledge regarding the intricate crosstalk between the intestinal innate and adaptive immune compartments.
T-cell neoplasms are a highly heterogeneous group of leukaemias and lymphomas that represent 10-15% of all lymphoid neoplasms. Traditionally, our understanding of T-cell leukaemias and lymphomas has lagged behind that of B-cell neoplasms, in part due to their rarity. However, recent advances in our understanding of T-cell differentiation, based on gene expression and mutation profiling and other high throughput methods, have better elucidated the pathogenetic mechanisms of T-cell leukaemias and lymphomas. In this review, we provide an overview of many of the molecular abnormalities that occur in various types of T-cell leukaemia and lymphoma. Much of this knowledge has been used to refine diagnostic criteria that has been included in the fifth edition of the World Health Organization. This knowledge is also being used to improve prognostication and identify novel therapeutic targets, and we expect this progress will continue, eventually resulting in improved outcomes for patients with T-cell leukaemias and lymphomas.
The Duffy blood group system is complex, highly immunogenic glycoprotein antigens found on the surface of Red Blood Cells (RBC), vasculature endothelial cells, alveolar epithelial cells, collecting tubules of the kidney, and on the surface of Purkinje cells in the brain, but are absent on the adult liver. Duffy antigens are absent on platelets, lymphocytes, monocytes, and granulocytes.  Duffy antigens act as receptors for chemokines and attract immune system cells. Duffy antigens also act as receptors for the Plasmodium species responsible for malaria. Antibodies against the Duffy blood group antigens are implicated in hemolytic transfusion reactions (HTR) and hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn (HDFN). Duffy blood group system International Society of Blood Transfusion (ISBT) symbol: FY ISBT Number: 008 History Duffy blood group antigen (Fy) was first discovered in 1950 in a patient named Duffy with multiple transfusions who presented with hemolytic transfusion reactions by Cutbush et al. Duffy glycoprotein or CD234 (Cluster of Differentiation 234) is a multi-pass protein. It spans the RBC membrane seven times with an exocellular N- terminal and an endocellular C-terminal, while multi-pass proteins in the other blood group system, both N and C terminals, are endocellular.  The Duffy antigens, FYa and FYb, are the gene products of DARC (Duffy antigen chemokine receptor; AKA ACKR1, atypical chemokine receptor 1).  Genetics Atypical Chemokine Receptor 1 (ACKR1) gene encodes the glycoprotein expressing the Duffy blood group antigens, or CD234 protein (Cluster of Differentiation 234 protein) and is encoded by a gene located at 1q23.2 position on the long arm of chromosome 1. This ACKR1 gene produces two mRNA variants and yields two protein isoforms with 338 and 336 amino acids. The Duffy antigens, i.e., Fya and Fyb, are encoded by FYA and FYB codominant alleles, respectively, which differ at position 125, where guanine in Fy-a is replaced by adenosine in Fy-b, which changes the glycine amino acid to aspartic amino acid at position 42 in Duffy glycoprotein.  Duffy antigens gene locus is syntenic to the gene locus for Rh antigen gene locus at chromosome 1. In most Duffy negative individuals, a silent Fy-b allele with T to C substitution near the gene transcription initiation site at nucleotide-46 is present. It impairs the promoter activity in human erythroid cells by disrupting the binding site for the erythroid transcription factor, i.e., GATA1. Still, the same gene is transcribed in the nonerythroid cells due to substitution mutation.  ACKRs receptors do not couple with G-proteins as its structure Asp-Arg-Tyr-Leu-Ala-Ile-Val (DRYLAIV) motif is absent on the second intracellular loop, leading to no GPCR dependant signaling pathways and chemotaxis. However, they function as scavenge, transport, and regulator of the bioavailability of chemokines. Antigens A total of five antigens are present in the Duffy blood group system: Fya, Fyb, Fy3, Fy5, and Fy6. Fya Antigen: ISBT symbol: FY1. ISBT number: 008.001. Antithetical antigen: Fyb (FY2). The expression on the cord blood RBCs: Expressed. The antigen can be demonstrated on the fetal RBCs as early as six weeks gestation. The adult level of Fya expression is attained approximately 12 weeks after birth. Fya antigens are sensitive to ficin, papain, and α-chymotrypsin and resistant to trypsin. Fyb Antigen: ISBT symbol: FY2. ISBT number: 008.002. Antithetical antigen: Fy(FY1). Expression on the cord blood RBCs: Expressed. Effect of enzymes: Fyb antigens are sensitive to ficin, papain, and α-chymotrypsin and resistant to trypsin. . Fy3 Antigen: ISBT symbol: FY3. ISBT number: 008003. Expression on the cord blood RBCs: Expressed and increases with age. Effect of enzymes: Fy3 antigens are resistant to ficin, papain, trypsin, and α-chymotrypsin. Fy5 Antigen: ISBT symbol: FY5. ISBT number: 008005. The expression on the cord blood RBCs: Expressed. Weak antigenic expression on D negative RBCs and absence in Rh null phenotype red cells show possible interaction between Duffy and Rh proteins. Effect of enzymes: Fy5 antigens are resistant to ficin and papain. Fy6 Antigen: ISBT symbol: FY6. ISBT number: 008.006. The expression on the cord blood RBCs. Effect of enzymes: Fy6 antigens are sensitive to ficin, papain, and α-chymotrypsin and resistant to trypsin. Epitopes of Fy6 antigen are required for invasion of P. vivax. Only murine monoclonal antibodies have defined this antigen, not human antibodies. Note: Fy4 antigen is obsolete in this system due to no evidence of antibodies against this antigen. Duffy Antibodies: Antibodies in the Duffy blood group system are mainly IgG type, and IgM type is rare. Duffy antibodies generally do not bind to complement, but some anti-Fyantibodies have been reported to bind with complement. These antibodies are not naturally occurring and are acquired by exposure to blood transfusion, pregnancy, and transplantation. Fya antibody is most common among other Duffy antibodies. The majority of Duffy antibodies show their reactivity at body temperature; hence they may cause red hemolysis and are clinically significant. These clinically significant antibodies can lead to both acute and delayed types of HTR and hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn (HDFN). Dosage phenomena: Duffy blood group system shows dosage phenomena where Duffy antibodies react more strongly to homozygous cells {Fy(a−b+) or Fy(a+b−)} than heterozygous {Fy(a+b+)}. Duffy Phenotypes Four major Duffy phenotypes: - Fy(a+b-), Fy(a+b+), Fy(a-b+), Fy(a-b-): The Fya and Fyb antigens are found commonly in Europeans (Fya 66% and Fyb 83%) and Asians (Fya 99% and Fyb18.5%), while less common in Africans (Fya 10% and Fyb 23%). Further, Fy(a-b-) phenotype in African origins is found in two-thirds of populations and rare in Europeans. Major antigenic frequencies are shown in Table 1. Additionally, a minor Duffy phenotype is the Fyx or [Fy(b+x)]. In this phenotype, the antigen is weakly expressed as Fyb and is determined by serological adsorption and elution techniques and DNA sequencing. FYX allele encodes weakly expressed Fyb antigen, which sometimes may not be detected by anti-Fy. The Fy(a–b–) phenotype, most commonly found in Blacks, occurs primarily due to a GATA promoter region mutation upstream of the FY allele. This mutation prevents the expression of Duffy glycoprotein on erythrocytes only while permitting expression on nonerythroid cells. Table 1 Major antigenic frequencies of Duffy Blood Group system in the world
Lymphadenopathy is a common abnormal finding during the physical exam in general medical practice. Patients and physicians have varying degrees of associated anxiety with the finding of lymphadenopathy as a small number of cases can be caused by neoplasm or infections of consequence, for example, HIV or tuberculosis (TB). However, it is generally recognized that most lymphadenopathy, both localized and generalized, is of benign, self-limited etiology. A clear understanding of lymph node function, location, description, and the etiologies of their enlargement is important in the clinical decisions of which cases need rapid and aggressive workup and which need only be observed. The lymph node functions as an antigen filter for the reticuloendothelial (RE) system of the body. It consists of a multi-layered sinus that sequentially exposes B-cell lymphocytes, T-cell lymphocytes, and macrophages to an afferent extracellular fluid. In this way, the immune system can recognize and react to foreign proteins and mount an immune response or sequester these proteins as appropriate. In this reaction, there is some multiplication of the responding resistant cell line, and thus, the node itself increases in size. It is generally held that a node size is considered enlarged when it is more significant than 1 cm. However, the reality is that "normal" and "enlarged" criteria vary depending on the location of the node and the age of the patient. For example, children younger than ten have more hypertrophic immune systems, and nodes up to 2 cm can be considered normal in some clinical situations. However, an epitrochlear node of above 0.5 cm is deemed to be pathological in an adult. The pattern, distribution, and quality of the lymphadenopathy can provide much clinical information in the diagnostic process. Lymphadenopathy occurs in 2 patterns: generalized and localized. Generalized lymphadenopathy entails lymphadenopathy in 2 or more non-contiguous locations. Localized adenopathy occurs in contiguous groupings of lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are distributed in discrete anatomical areas, and their enlargement reflects the lymphatic drainage of their location. The nodes themselves may be tender or non-tender, fixed or mobile, discreet or "matted" together. Concomitant symptomatology and the epidemiology of the patient and the illness provide further diagnostic cues. A thorough history of any prodromal illness, fever, chills, night sweats, weight loss, and localizing symptoms can be very revealing. Additionally, the demographic particulars of the patient, including age, gender, exposure to infectious disease, toxins, medications, and their habits, may provide further cues. As evidenced above, the critical step in evaluation for adenopathy is a careful history and focused physical exam. The extent of the history and physical is determined by the clinical presentation of the patient. For example, a patient with posterior cervical adenopathy, sore throat, and tremendous fatigue need only a careful history, cursory examination, and a mono test. In contrast, a person with generalized lymphadenopathy and fatigue would require more extensive investigation. Generally, the majority of the lymphadenopathy is localized (some site a 3:1 ratio), with the majority of that being represented in the head and neck region (again, some site a 3:1 ratio). It also is accepted that all generalized lymphadenopathy merits clinical evaluation, and the presence of "matted lymphadenopathy" is strongly indicative of significant pathology.Examination of the patient's history, physical examination, and the demographic in which they fall can allow the patient to be placed into 1 of several different accepted algorithms for workup of lymphadenopathy. The use of these cues and selection of the correct arm of the algorithm allows for a fairly rapid and cost-effective diagnosis of lymphadenopathy, including determination when it is safe to observe. Algorithmic Analysis of Lymphadenopathy After a history and physical examination are completed, lymphadenopathy is placed into 3 categories: : 1. "Diagnostic" such as strep pharyngitis or upper respiratory tract disease, in which case the course of action is to treat the condition. 2. "Suggestive" such as mononucleosis lymphoma or HIV wherein the history and physical strongly suggestive diagnosis-specific testing is performed and if positive the action is to treat the condition. 3. "Unexplained" where the lymphadenopathy is divided into generalized lymphadenopathy and localized lymphadenopathy: For unexplained localized lymphadenopathy, a review of history, a regional exam, and epidemiological clues are used to separate patients into lower (no risk of malignancy or serious disease) versus higher risk for serious disease or malignancy categories. If the patient is at no risk for malignancy or serious illness, the reasonable course is to observe the patient for 3 to 4 weeks to see if the lymphadenopathy resolves or improves. In which case, the clinician is safely cleared to follow the patient. If the lymphadenopathy does not resolve or improve, the next step is to obtain a biopsy. If the patient is judged to have a risk for malignancy or serious illness, the procedure is to proceed immediately to biopsy. For unexplained generalized lymphadenopathy, the key to diagnosis is a history to evaluate for suspected causes. The initial search would be questioning for a mononucleosis-type syndrome evidenced by fever atypical lymphocytosis and malaise included in these differentials would be Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, toxoplasmosis, and (especially in the case of a flu-like illness and her rash) the initial stages of an HIV infection. The second step in evaluating unexplained generalized lymphadenopathy involves a careful review of epidemiological cues. Included in the epidemiological cues would be: : 1. Infectious disease exposure. 2. Animal exposure. 3. Insect bites. 4. Recent travel. 5. Complete medication history. 6. Personal habits-smoking, consumption of alcohol, consumption of drugs-special attention to a history of IVTA, high-risk sexual behavior. 7. Consumption of under-cooked food/untreated water. Although there is no "cookbook" for the laboratory evaluation of generalized unexplained lymphadenopathy, the initial steps are to obtain a complete blood count (CBC) with a manual differential and EBV serology. If non-diagnostic, the next steps would be PPD placement, RPR, chest x-ray, ANA, hepatitis B surface antigen, and HIV test. Again if any of the above are positive, appropriate treatment can be initiated. In the presence of negative serological examinations and radiological examinations, and or significant symptomology, a biopsy of the abnormal node is the gold standard for diagnosis.Statistics concerning lymphadenopathy are not accurate as the great majority of lymphadenopathy is caused by a non-reportable illness and thus not reported or taken into account. This results in a statistical bias, or skew, toward the reportable causes of lymphadenopathy:  malignancies, HIV, tuberculosis, and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Citations in the recent literature for general medical practice indicate that less than 1% of people with lymphadenopathy have malignant disease most often due to leukemia and younger children Hodgkin disease in adolescence non-Hodgkin disease and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in adults. It has been reported the general prevalence of malignancy is 0.4% in patients under 40 years and around 4% in those older than 40 years of age seen in a primary care setting. It is reported that the prevalence rate of neoplastic disease rises to near 20% in referral centers and rises to 50% or more in patients with initial risk factors.
A major risk factor to develop active tuberculosis (TB) is the infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Chest radiography is the first-line imaging modality used to rule out TB. Coinfected individuals present often with atypical imaging patterns, due to the immunosuppression caused by the virus, making diagnosis difficult. In this prospective observational study 268 TB and HIV coinfected patients were included. During a follow-up period of 24 weeks, the predominant patterns on chest radiography were analyzed and compared to the cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) count under antiretroviral and anti-TB therapy. Patients with low CD4 counts (<200 cells//µL) showed more often lymphadenopathy (62% vs 38%;P = .08) and a miliary pattern (64% vs 36%;P = .04) but less likely cavitation (32% vs 68%;P = .008) or consolidation (47% vs 63%;P = .002) compared to individuals with higher CD4 counts. Over the follow-up period, partial response to therapy was the most frequent radiological evolution (62%), mainly accompanied by an increase of CD4 cells (92%). Patients with a decrease in CD4 count mostly presented with a worsening in radiological findings (53%). Radiographic TB manifestation correlated with the immune status of patients coinfected with HIV. Low CD4 counts often showed atypical manifestation.
Both B cell receptor (BCR) and CD40 signaling are rewired in germinal center (GC) B cells (GCBCs) to synergistically induce c-MYC and phosphorylated S6 ribosomal protein (p-S6), markers of positive selection. How interleukin-21 (IL-21), a key T follicular helper (TFH)-derived cytokine, affects GCBCs is unclear. Like BCR and CD40 signals, IL-21 receptor (IL-21R) plus CD40 signals also synergize to induce c-MYC and p-S6 in GCBCs. However, IL-21R plus CD40 stimulation differentially affects GCBC fate compared with BCR plus CD40 ligation-engaging unique molecular mechanisms-as revealed by bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), single-cell RNA-seq, and flow cytometry of GCBCs in vitro and in vivo. Whereas both signal pairs induced BLIMP1 in some GCBCs, only the IL-21R/CD40 combination induced IRF4hi/CD138+ cells, indicative of plasma cell differentiation, along with CCR6+/CD38+ memory B cell precursors. These findings reveal a second positive selection pathway in GCBCs, document rewired IL-21R signaling in GCBCs, and link specific TFH- and Ag-derived signals to GCBC differentiation.
In antibody responses, mutated germinal center B (BGC) cells are positively selected for reentry or differentiation. As the products from GCs, memory B cells and antibody-secreting cells (ASCs) support high-affinity and long-lasting immunity. Positive selection of BGC cells is controlled by signals received through the B cell receptor (BCR) and follicular helper T (TFH) cell-derived signals, in particular costimulation through CD40. Here, we demonstrate that the TFH cell effector cytokine interleukin-21 (IL-21) joins BCR and CD40 in supporting BGC selection and reveal that strong IL-21 signaling prioritizes ASC differentiation in vivo. BGC cells, compared with non-BGC cells, show significantly reduced IL-21 binding and attenuated signaling, which is mediated by low cellular heparan sulfate (HS) sulfation. Mechanistically, N-deacetylase and N-sulfotransferase 1 (Ndst1)-mediated N-sulfation of HS in B cells promotes IL-21 binding and signal strength. Ndst1 is down-regulated in BGC cells and up-regulated in ASC precursors, suggesting selective desensitization to IL-21 in BGC cells. Thus, specialized biochemical regulation of IL-21 bioavailability and signal strength sets a balance between the stringency and efficiency of GC selection.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this review is to discuss the role of γδ T cells played in humoral immune responses.BACKGROUND: The γδ T cell receptor (γδ TCR) recognizes antigens, including haptens and proteins, in an MHC-independent manner. The recognition of these antigens by γδ TCRs crosses antigen recognition by the B cell receptors (BCRs), suggesting that γδ T cells may be involved in the process of antigen recognition and activation of B cells. However, the role of γδ T cells in humoral immune responses is still less clear.METHODS: The kinds of literature about the γδ T cell-B cell interaction were searched on PubMed with search terms, such as γδ T cells, antibody, B cell responses, antigen recognition, and infection.RESULTS: Accumulating evidence indicates that γδ T cells, independent of αβ T cells, participate in multiple steps of humoral immunity, including B cell maturation, activation and differentiation, antibody production and class switching. Mechanically, γδ T cells affect B cell function by directly interacting with B cells, secreting cytokines, or modulating αβ T cells.CONCLUSION: In this review, we summarize current knowledge on how γδ T cells take part in the humoral immune response, which may assist future vaccine design.
Maternal engraftment is frequently present in X‑linked severe combined immunodeficiency (X‑SCID) patients caused by pathogenic mutations in IL2GR. However, the functional status of the engrafted cells remains unclear because of the difficulty in separately evaluating the function of the maternal and autologous cells. The present study reported an X‑SCID patient with a de novo c.677C>T (p.R226H) variant in exon 5 of IL2RG, exhibiting recurrent and persistent infections from 3‑months‑old. After the male patient suffering recurrent pneumonia and acute hematogenous disseminated tuberculosis when 13‑months‑old, single‑cell RNA sequencing was applied to characterize the transcriptome landscape of his bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMNCs). A novel bioinformatic analysis strategy was designed to discriminate maternal and autologous cells at single‑cell resolution. The maternal engrafted cells consisted primarily of T, NKT and NK cells and the patient presented with the coexistence of autologous cells of these cell types. When compared respectively with normal counterparts, both maternal and autologous T and NKT cells increased the transcription of some important cytokines (GZMB, PRF1 and NKG7) against infections, but decreased the expression of a number of key transcription factors (FOS, JUN, TCF7 and LEF1) related to lymphocyte activation, proliferation and differentiation. Notably, the expression of multiple inhibitory factors (LAG3, CTLA4 and HAVCR2) were substantially enhanced in the T and NKT cells of both origins. In conclusion, both maternal and autologous T and NKT cells exhibited exhaustion‑like dysfunction in this X‑SCID patient suffering recurrent and persistent infections.
The impact of radiotherapy (RT) on immune cell status in prostate cancer (PCa) is only partially determined. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of different RT strategies on peripheral B, T, and Natural killer (NK) lymphocytes at precise longitudinal time-points in PCa. 18 patients treated with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) (40 Gy/3FRX), definitive moderate-hypofractionation (62 Gy/20FRX), or post-operative conventional-fractionation RT (66-69 Gy/30FRX) were prospectively evaluated for the immune cell profile in terms of immune cell composition, differentiation stage, cytokine production and inhibitory receptor (IR) expression. The immune-monitoring of the 18 patients revealed that RT affects the balance of systemic immune cells, with the main differences observed between SBRT and conventionally fractionated RT. SBRT favorably impacts immune response in term of increased B cells, central-memory and effector-memory CD8+ T cells, along with decreased Treg cells after treatment. On the contrary, conventional fractionated RT had a long-term negative effect on the systemic immune profile, including a decrease of total lymphocyte counts accompanied by an increase of neutrophils-to-lymphocytes ratio. Total B and T cells decreased and Treg-to-CD8+ ratio increased. Functionality of T lymphocytes were not affected by any of the 3-fractionation schedules. Interestingly, SBRT significantly up-regulates the expression of V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T-cell activation (VISTA) in CD8+ T cells in the absence of other IRs. Our results indicate the relevance of systematic immunomonitoring during RT to identify novel immune-related target to design trials of combined radio-immunotherapy as a promising strategy in the clinical management of PCa.
T cells are the common type of lymphocyte to mediate allograft rejection, remaining long-term allograft survival impeditive. However, the heterogeneity of T cells, in terms of differentiation and activation status, the effector function, and highly diverse T cell receptors (TCRs) have thus precluded us from tracking these T cells and thereby comprehending their fate in recipients due to the limitations of traditional detection approaches. Recently, with the widespread development of single-cell techniques, the identification and characterization of T cells have been performed at single-cell resolution, which has contributed to a deeper comprehension of T cell heterogeneity by relevant detections in a single cell - such as gene expression, DNA methylation, chromatin accessibility, surface proteins, and TCR. Although these approaches can provide valuable insights into an individual cell independently, a comprehensive understanding can be obtained when applied joint analysis. Multi-omics techniques have been implemented in characterizing T cells in health and disease, including transplantation. This review focuses on the thesis, challenges, and advances in these technologies and highlights their application to the study of alloreactive T cells to improve the understanding of T cell heterogeneity in solid organ transplantation.
BACKGROUND: The classification of thymomas is based on the morphology of epithelial tumor cells and the proportion of lymphocytes. Type A thymomas are composed of the spindle or oval tumor epithelial cells. Tumor cells of B thymomas are epithelioid-shaped with increasing atypia. Type AB thymomas have the features of epithelial tumor cells of A and B thymomas. The diagnosis can be difficult because of the complex morphology. Some novel thymic epithelial markers have been reported in several preclinical studies, but they have not been applied to clinical practice. Here, we investigated the expression of 3 cortical and 3 medullary markers, which are thymoproteasome-specific subunit β5t (β5t), thymus-specific serine protease 16 (PRSS16), cathepsin V, autoimmune regulator (AIRE), CD40 and claudin-4.METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was used to analyze 53 cases of thymomas and thymic squamous cell carcinomas (TSCC), aiming to explore the expression of cortical and medullary epithelial markers and their correlation with histological classification, Masaoka-Koga stage, and prognosis.RESULTS: Our results found that for cortical epithelial markers the expression of β5t, PRSS16, and cathepsin V was higher in type AB and B thymomas than in micronodular thymoma with lymphoid stroma (MNT), and we observed a dramatic increase of β5t and PRSS16 expression in type AB compared to type A thymomas. In medullary epithelial markers, the expression of AIRE was higher in type A than in B3 thymomas. CD40 and β5t expression were associated with the Masaoka-Koga stage. High cathepsin V expression was related to a good prognosis and a longer progression-free survival.CONCLUSION: This is the first comprehensive analysis of the role of thymic cortical and medullary epithelial markers as biomarkers for differential diagnosis and prognosis in thymic tumors. Thymic medullary epithelial immunophenotype was found to exhibit in type A, MNT, and TSCC. Type B thymomas primarily exhibited a cortical epithelial immunophenotype. Type AB thymomas showed cortical, medullary, or mixed corticomedullary epithelial immunophenotype. Our results demonstrated that thymic cortical and medullary epithelial markers including β5t, PRSS16, cathepsin V, and AIRE could be used as ancillary markers in the diagnosis and prognosis of thymic epithelial tumors.
Immune checkpoint therapy (ICT) has the power to eradicate cancer, but the mechanisms that determine effective therapy-induced immune responses are not fully understood. Here, using high-dimensional single-cell profiling, we interrogate whether the landscape of T cell states in the peripheral blood predict responses to combinatorial targeting of the OX40 costimulatory and PD-1 inhibitory pathways. Single-cell RNA sequencing and mass cytometry expose systemic and dynamic activation states of therapy-responsive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in tumor-bearing mice with expression of distinct natural killer (NK) cell receptors, granzymes, and chemokines/chemokine receptors. Moreover, similar NK cell receptor-expressing CD8+ T cells are also detected in the blood of immunotherapy-responsive cancer patients. Targeting the NK cell and chemokine receptors in tumor-bearing mice shows the functional importance of these receptors for therapy-induced anti-tumor immunity. These findings provide a better understanding of ICT and highlight the use and targeting of dynamic biomarkers on T cells to improve cancer immunotherapy.
Comment in    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2023 May 1;207(9):1114-1115.
The induction of proinflammatory T cells by dendritic cell (DC) subtypes is critical for antitumor responses and effective immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy. Here, we show that human CD1c+CD5+ DCs are reduced in melanoma-affected lymph nodes, with CD5 expression on DCs correlating with patient survival. Activating CD5 on DCs enhanced T cell priming and improved survival after ICB therapy. CD5+ DC numbers increased during ICB therapy, and low interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentrations promoted their de novo differentiation. Mechanistically, CD5 expression by DCs was required to generate optimally protective CD5hi T helper and CD8+ T cells; further, deletion of CD5 from T cells dampened tumor elimination in response to ICB therapy in vivo. Thus, CD5+ DCs are an essential component of optimal ICB therapy.
BACKGROUND: Economic evaluations are widely used to predict the economic impact of new treatment alternatives. Comprehensive economic reviews in the field of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are warranted to supplement the existing analyses focused on specific therapeutic areas.METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted based on literature searches in Medline and EMBASE to summarize the published health economics models related to all types of CLL therapies. Narrative synthesis of relevant studies was performed focusing on compared treatments, patient populations, modelling approaches and key findings.RESULTS: We included 29 studies, the majority of which were published between 2016 and 2018, when data from large clinical trials in CLL became available. Treatment regimens were compared in 25 cases, while the remaining four studies considered treatment strategies with more complex patient pathways. Based on the review results, Markov modelling with a simple structure of three health states (progression-free, progressed, death) can be considered as the traditional basis to simulate cost effectiveness. However, more recent studies added further complexity, including additional health states for different therapies (e.g. best supportive care or stem cell transplantation), for progression-free state (e.g. by differentiating between with or without treatment), or for response status (i.e. partial response and complete response).CONCLUSIONS: As personalized medicine is increasingly gaining recognition, we expect that future economic evaluations will also incorporate new solutions, which are necessary to capture a larger number of genetic and molecular markers and more complex patient pathways with individual patient-level allocation of treatment options and thus economic assessments.
BACKGROUND: Infiltration of cluster of differentiation (CD) 3+ (CD3+) T cells into the synovium and synovial fluid occurs in most patients with posttraumatic osteoarthritis. During disease progression, proinflammatory T helper 17 cells and anti-inflammatory regulatory T cells infiltrate the joint in response to inflammation. This study aimed to characterize the dynamics of regulatory T and T helper 17 cell populations in synovial fluid from equine clinical patients with posttraumatic osteoarthritis to determine whether phenotype and function are associated with potential immunotherapeutic targets.HYPOTHESIS: An imbalance of the ratio of regulatory T cells and T helper 17 cells would be associated with disease progression in posttraumatic osteoarthritis, suggesting opportunities for immunomodulatory therapy.STUDY DESIGN: Descriptive laboratory study.METHODS: Synovial fluid was aspirated from the joints of equine clinical patients undergoing arthroscopic surgery for posttraumatic osteoarthritis resulting from intra-articular fragmentation. Joints were classified as having mild or moderate posttraumatic osteoarthritis. Synovial fluid was also obtained from nonoperated horses with normal cartilage. Peripheral blood was obtained from horses with normal cartilage and those with mild and moderate posttraumatic osteoarthritis. Synovial fluid and peripheral blood cells were analyzed by flow cytometry, and native synovial fluid was analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.RESULTS: CD3+ T cells represented 81% of lymphocytes in synovial fluid, which increased in animals with moderate posttraumatic osteoarthritis to 88.3% (P = .02). CD14+ macrophages were doubled in those with moderate posttraumatic osteoarthritis compared with mild posttraumatic osteoarthritis and controls (P < .001). Less than 5% of CD3+ T cells found within the joint were forkhead box P3 protein+ (Foxp3+) regulatory T cells, but a 4- to 8-times higher percentage of nonoperated and mild posttraumatic osteoarthritis joint regulatory T cells secreted interleukin (IL)-10 than peripheral blood Tregs (P < .005). T regulatory-1 cells that secreted IL-10 but did not express Foxp3 accounted for approximately 5% of CD3+ T cells in all joints. T helper 17 cells and Th17-like regulatory T cells were increased in those with moderate posttraumatic osteoarthritis (P < .0001) compared with mild and nonoperated patients. IL-10, IL-17A, IL-6, chemokine (C-C motif) ligand (CCL) 2 (CCL2), and CCL5 concentrations detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in synovial fluid were not different between groups.CONCLUSIONS: An imbalance of the ratio of regulatory T cells and T helper 17 cells and an increase in T helper 17 cell-like regulatory T cells in synovial fluid from joints with more severe disease provide novel insights into immunological mechanisms that are associated with posttraumatic osteoarthritis progression and pathogenesis.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Early and targeted use of immunotherapeutics in the mitigation of posttraumatic osteoarthritis may improve patient clinical outcomes.
CONTEXT: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease with aberrant Th17 cell differentiation. Panax notoginseng (Burk.) F. H. Chen (Araliaceae) saponins (PNS) have an anti-inflammatory effect and can suppress Th17 cell differentiation.OBJECTIVE: To investigate mechanisms of PNS on Th17 cell differentiation in RA, and the role of pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Naive CD4+T cells were treated with IL-6, IL-23 and TGF-β to induce Th17 cell differentiation. Apart from the Control group, other cells were treated with PNS (5, 10, 20 μg/mL). After the treatment, Th17 cell differentiation, PKM2 expression, and STAT3 phosphorylation were measured via flow cytometry, western blots, or immunofluorescence. PKM2-specific allosteric activator (Tepp-46, 50, 100, 150 μM) and inhibitor (SAICAR, 2, 4, 8 μM) were used to verify the mechanisms. A CIA mouse model was established and divided into control, model, and PNS (100 mg/kg) groups to assess an anti-arthritis effect, Th17 cell differentiation, and PKM2/STAT3 expression.RESULTS: PKM2 expression, dimerization, and nuclear accumulation were upregulated upon Th17 cell differentiation. PNS inhibited the Th17 cells, RORγt expression, IL-17A levels, PKM2 dimerization, and nuclear accumulation and Y705-STAT3 phosphorylation in Th17 cells. Using Tepp-46 (100 μM) and SAICAR (4 μM), we demonstrated that PNS (10 μg/mL) inhibited STAT3 phosphorylation and Th17 cell differentiation by suppressing nuclear PKM2 accumulation. In CIA mice, PNS attenuated CIA symptoms, reduced the number of splenic Th17 cells and nuclear PKM2/STAT3 signaling.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: PNS inhibited Th17 cell differentiation through the inhibition of nuclear PKM2-mediated STAT3 phosphorylation. PNS may be useful for treating RA.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory condition of our arteries and the main underlying pathology of myocardial infarction and stroke. The pathogenesis is age-dependent, but the links between disease progression, age, and atherogenic cytokines and chemokines are incompletely understood. Here, we studied the chemokine-like inflammatory cytokine macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) in atherogenic Apoe-/- mice across different stages of aging and cholesterol-rich high-fat diet (HFD). MIF promotes atherosclerosis by mediating leukocyte recruitment, lesional inflammation, and suppressing atheroprotective B cells. However, links between MIF and advanced atherosclerosis across aging have not been systematically explored. We compared effects of global Mif-gene deficiency in 30-, 42-, and 48-week-old Apoe-/- mice on HFD for 24, 36, or 42 weeks, respectively, and in 52-week-old mice on a 6-week HFD. Mif-deficient mice exhibited reduced atherosclerotic lesions in the 30/24- and 42/36-week-old groups, but atheroprotection, which in the applied Apoe-/- model was limited to lesions in the brachiocephalic artery and abdominal aorta, was not detected in the 48/42- and 52/6-week-old groups. This suggested that atheroprotection afforded by global Mif-gene deletion differs across aging stages and atherogenic diet duration. To characterize this phenotype and study the underlying mechanisms, we determined immune cells in the periphery and vascular lesions, obtained a multiplex cytokine/chemokine profile, and compared the transcriptome between the age-related phenotypes. We found that Mif deficiency promotes lesional macrophage and T-cell counts in younger but not aged mice, with subgroup analysis pointing toward a role for Trem2+ macrophages. The transcriptomic analysis identified pronounced MIF- and aging-dependent changes in pathways predominantly related to lipid synthesis and metabolism, lipid storage, and brown fat cell differentiation, as well as immunity, and atherosclerosis-relevant enriched genes such as Plin1, Ldlr, Cpne7, or Il34, hinting toward effects on lesional lipids, foamy macrophages, and immune cells. Moreover, Mif-deficient aged mice exhibited a distinct plasma cytokine/chemokine signature consistent with the notion that mediators known to drive inflamm'aging are either not downregulated or even upregulated in Mif-deficient aged mice compared with the corresponding younger ones. Lastly, Mif deficiency favored formation of lymphocyte-rich peri-adventitial leukocyte clusters. While the causative contributions of these mechanistic pillars and their interplay will be subject to future scrutiny, our study suggests that atheroprotection due to global Mif-gene deficiency in atherogenic Apoe-/- mice is reduced upon advanced aging and identifies previously unrecognized cellular and molecular targets that could explain this phenotype shift. These observations enhance our understanding of inflamm'aging and MIF pathways in atherosclerosis and may have implications for translational MIF-directed strategies.
Background: Excessive immune activation leads to secondary injury and impedes injured brain recovery after ischemic stroke. However, few effective methods are currently used for equilibrating immune balance. CD3+NK1.1-TCRβ+CD4-CD8- double-negative T (DNT) cells which do not express NK cell surface markers are unique regulatory cells that maintain homeostasis in several immune-related diseases. However, the therapeutic potential and regulatory mechanism of DNT cells in ischemic stroke are still unknown. Methods: Mouse ischemic stroke is induced by occlusion of the distal branches of the middle cerebral artery (dMCAO). DNT cells were adoptively transferred intravenously into ischemic stroke mice. Neural recovery was evaluated by TTC staining and behavioral analysis. Using immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and RNA sequencing, the immune regulatory function of DNT cells was investigated at different time points post ischemic stroke. Results: Adoptive transfer of DNT cells significantly reduces infarct volume and improves sensorimotor function after ischemic stroke. DNT cells suppress peripheral Trem1+ myeloid cell differentiation during the acute phase. Furthermore, they infiltrate the ischemic tissue via CCR5 and equilibrate the local immune balance during the subacute phase. During the chronic phase, DNT cells enhance Treg cell recruitment through CCL5, eventually developing an immune homeostatic milieu for neuronal recovery. Conclusions: DNT cell treatment renders the comprehensive anti-inflammatory roles in specific phases of ischemic stroke. Our study suggests that the adoptive transfer of regulatory DNT cells may be a potential cell-based therapy for ischemic stroke.
Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA) is a rare central nervous system malignant neoplasm with a relatively favorable prognosis. As PXA histologically presents with large, multinucleated neoplastic cells, its principal differential diagnosis is giant cell glioblastoma (GCGBM). While there is a significant overlap between the two histologically and the neuropathological diagnosis can be challenging, as well as having some overlap neuroradiologically, the patient prognosis differs significantly, with PXA having a more favorable one. Herein we present a case report of a male patient in his thirties diagnosed with GCGBM and presenting again six years later with thickening of the wall of the porencephalic cyst suggestive of disease recurrence. Histopathology revealed neoplastic spindle, small lymphocyte-like, large epithelioid-like, some with foamy cytoplasm, and scattered large multinucleated cells with bizarre nuclei. For the most part, the tumor had a distinct border to the surrounding brain parenchyma, except for a single zone of invasion. As per the depicted morphology, with a lack of pathognomic features of GCGBM, the diagnosis of PXA was defined, and the oncologic committee reevaluated the patient with treatment reinitiation. Based on the close morphological profile of these neoplasias, it is likely that in the case of limited material, multiple PXA cases are diagnosed as GCGBM, resulting in misdiagnosed long survivors.
Measurement of circulating immunoglobulin E (IgE) concentration is helpful for diagnosing and treating asthma and allergic diseases. Identifying gene expression signatures associated with IgE might elucidate novel pathways for IgE regulation. To this end, we performed a discovery transcriptome-wide association study to identify differentially expressed genes associated with circulating IgE levels in whole-blood derived RNA from 5,345 participants in the Framingham Heart Study across 17,873 mRNA gene-level transcripts. We identified 216 significant transcripts at a false discovery rate <0.05. We conducted replication using the meta-analysis of two independent external studies: the Childhood Asthma Management Program (n=610) and the Genetic Epidemiology of Asthma in Costa Rica Study (n=326); we then reversed the discovery and replication cohorts, which revealed 59 significant genes that replicated in both directions. Gene ontology analysis revealed that many of these genes were implicated in immune function pathways, including defense response, inflammatory response, and cytokine production. Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis revealed four genes (CLC, CCDC21, S100A13, and GCNT1) as putatively causal (p<0.05) regulators of IgE levels. GCNT1 (beta=1.5, p=0.01)-which is a top result in the MR analysis of expression in relation to asthma and allergic diseases-plays a role in regulating T helper type 1 cell homing, lymphocyte trafficking, and B cell differentiation. Our findings build upon prior knowledge of IgE regulation and provide a deeper understanding of underlying molecular mechanisms. The IgE-associated genes that we identified-particularly those implicated in MR analysis-can be explored as promising therapeutic targets for asthma and IgE-related diseases.
Myasthenia Gravis (MG) is a neurological autoimmune disease characterized by disabling muscle weaknesses due to anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) autoantibodies. To gain insight into immune dysregulation underlying early-onset AChR+ MG, we performed an in-depth analysis of peripheral mononuclear blood cells (PBMCs) using mass cytometry. PBMCs from 24 AChR+ MG patients without thymoma and 16 controls were stained with a panel of 37 antibodies. Using both unsupervised and supervised approaches, we observed a decrease in monocytes, for all subpopulations: classical, intermediate, and non-classical monocytes. In contrast, an increase in innate lymphoid cells 2 (ILC2s) and CD27- γδ T cells was observed. We further investigated the dysregulations affecting monocytes and γδ T cells in MG. We analyzed CD27- γδ T cells in PBMCs and thymic cells from AChR+ MG patients. We detected the increase in CD27- γδ T cells in thymic cells of MG patients suggesting that the inflammatory thymic environment might affect γδ T cell differentiation. To better understand changes that might affect monocytes, we analyzed RNA sequencing data from CD14+ PBMCs and showed a global decrease activity of monocytes in MG patients. Next, by flow cytometry, we especially confirmed the decrease affecting non-classical monocytes. In MG, as for other B-cell mediated autoimmune diseases, dysregulations are well known for adaptive immune cells, such as B and T cells. Here, using single-cell mass cytometry, we unraveled unexpected dysregulations for innate immune cells. If these cells are known to be crucial for host defense, our results demonstrated that they could also be involved in autoimmunity.
BACKGROUND: To investigate the changes of natural killer (NK) cell phenotype in the interferon alpha (IFN-α) treatment of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and its relationship with clinical indicators.METHODS: The CHB patients who did not receive any antiviral treatment were set as initial treatment group and used pegylated interferon alpha (PEG-IFN α). Peripheral blood samples were collected at baseline, 4 weeks, and 12-24 weeks. For IFN-treated patients who entered the plateau were set as plateau group, and PEG-IFN α was discontinued and resumed after an interval of 12-24 weeks. Besides, we also enrolled some patients who had received oral drug for more than 6 months as oral drug group without follow up. Peripheral blood was collected during the plateau period, which was set as baseline, and after 12-24 weeks of intermittent treatment, and after 12-24 weeks of additional treatment with PEG-IFN α. The aim of the collection was to detect hepatitis B virus (HBV) virology, serology and biochemical indicators, and the NK cell related phenotype was detected by flow cytometry.RESULTS: In the plateau group, subgroup of CD69+CD56dim was higher with statistical significance when comparing with the initial treatment group and oral drug group [10.49 (5.27, 19.07) vs 5.03 (3.67, 8.58), Z = -3.11, P = 0.002; 10.49 (5.27, 19.07) vs 4.04 (1.90, 7.26), Z = -5.30, P < 0.001)]. CD57+CD56dim was significantly lower than that in initial treatment group and oral drug group respectively [68.42±10.37 vs 55.85±12.87, t = 5.84, P < 0.001; 76.38±9.49 vs 55.85±12.87, t = -9.65, P < 0.001]. The CD56brightCD16- subgroup in the plateau group was higher with statistical significance compared with initial treatment group and oral drug group respectively [11.64 (6.05, 19.61) vs 3.58 (1.94, 5.60), Z = -6.35, P < 0.001; 11.64 (6.05, 19.61) vs 2.37 (1.70, 4.30), Z = -7.74, P < 0.001)]. CD57+CD56dim in the plateau group had a significant higher percentage than that at baseline after IFN discontinuation for 12-24 weeks (55.85±12.87 vs 65.95±12.94, t = -2.78, P = 0.011).CONCLUSION: During the long-term treatment of IFN, the killer subgroup of NK cells is continuously depleted, leading to the differentiation of the regulatory subgroup into the killer subgroup. In the killing subgroup, although the number is continuously depleted, the activity of the subgroup is continuously increased. In the plateau phase, after stopping IFN for a period of time, the number of NK cell subsets would gradually recover, but was still lower than that in the initial treatment group.
BACKGROUND: It is well known that periodontitis has an important impact on systemic diseases. The aim of this study was to investigate potential crosstalk genes, pathways and immune cells between periodontitis and IgA nephropathy (IgAN).METHODS: We downloaded periodontitis and IgAN data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) were used to identify shared genes. Then, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were performed on the shared genes. Hub genes were further screened using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, and a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was drawn according to the screening results. Finally, single-sample GSEA (ssGSEA) was used to analyze the infiltration level of 28 immune cells in the expression profile and its relationship with shared hub genes.RESULTS: By taking the intersection of WGCNA important module genes and DEGs, we found that the SPAG4, CCDC69, KRT10, CXCL12, HPGD, CLDN20 and CCL187 genes were the most important cross-talk genes between periodontitis and IgAN. GO analysis showed that the shard genes were most significantly enriched in kinase regulator activity. The LASSO analysis results showed that two overlapping genes (CCDC69 and CXCL12) were the optimal shared diagnostic biomarkers for periodontitis and IgAN. The immune infiltration results revealed that T cells and B cells play an important role in the pathogenesis of periodontitis and IgAN.CONCLUSION: This study is the first to use bioinformatics tools to explore the close genetic relationship between periodontitis and IgAN. The SPAG4, CCDC69, KRT10, CXCL12, HPGD, CLDN20 and CCL187 genes were the most important cross-talk genes between periodontitis and IgAN. T-cell and B-cell-driven immune responses may play an important role in the association between periodontitis and IgAN.
BACKGROUND: Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA) is an autoimmune disease with a heterogenous clinical presentation and unpredictable response to available therapies. This personalized transcriptomics study sought proof-of-concept for single-cell RNA sequencing to characterize patient-specific immune profiles.METHODS: Whole blood samples from six untreated children, newly diagnosed with JIA, and two healthy controls were cultured for 24 h with or without ex vivo TNF stimulation and subjected to scRNAseq to examine cellular populations and transcript expression in PBMCs. A novel analytical pipeline, scPool, was developed wherein cells are first pooled into pseudocells prior to expression analysis, facilitating variance partitioning of the effects of TNF stimulus, JIA disease status, and individual donor.RESULTS: Seventeen robust immune cell-types were identified, the abundance of which was significantly affected by TNF stimulus, which resulted in notable elevation of memory CD8 + T-cells and NK56 cells, but down-regulation of naïve B-cell proportions. Memory CD8 + and CD4 + T-cells were also both reduced in the JIA cases relative to two controls. Significant differential expression responses to TNF stimulus were also characterized, with monocytes showing more transcriptional shifts than T-lymphocyte subsets, while the B-cell response was more limited. We also show that donor variability exceeds the small degree of possible intrinsic differentiation between JIA and control profiles. An incidental finding of interest was association of HLA-DQA2 and HLA-DRB5 expression with JIA status.CONCLUSIONS: These results support the development of personalized immune-profiling combined with ex-vivo immune stimulation for evaluation of patient-specific modes of immune cell activity in autoimmune rheumatic disease.
T helper 17 (Th17) cells are a subset of CD4+ T helper cells involved in the inflammatory response in autoimmunity. Th17 cells secrete Th17 specific cytokines, such as IL-17A and IL17-F, which are governed by the master transcription factor RoRγt. However, the epigenetic mechanism regulating Th17 cell function is still not fully understood. Here, we reveal that deletion of RNA 5-methylcytosine (m5C) methyltransferase Nsun2 in mouse CD4+ T cells specifically inhibits Th17 cell differentiation and alleviates Th17 cell-induced colitis pathogenesis. Mechanistically, RoRγt can recruit Nsun2 to chromatin regions of their targets, including Il17a and Il17f, leading to the transcription-coupled m5C formation and consequently enhanced mRNA stability. Our study demonstrates a m5C mediated cell intrinsic function in Th17 cells and suggests Nsun2 as a potential therapeutic target for autoimmune disease.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a typical autoimmune disease distinguished by multiple organ dysfunction, which is related to a variety of causative factors. B-cell overactivation is a key factor in SLE. However, the pathogenesis underlying anomalous B cells has not been well elucidated. B-cell fate is regulated in diverse epigenetic ways apart from traditional ways. As one of the mechanisms of epigenetics, histone modification mainly affects transcription and translation by changing the chemical groups on histones by histone modification enzymes. JMJD3, a histone demethylase, can promote T-cell proliferation in SLE patients, which exacerbates SLE. However, the mechanism of JMJD3 in B cells in SLE has not been studied. Here, we found that the mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of JMJD3 in classical memory B cells (CMBs) was higher than that in naïve B cells (NBs) from human tonsil tissue; JMJD3 was overexpressed in B cells from the peripheral blood of SLE patients compared with healthy controls (HCs). In vitro, our experiment showed that JMJD3 could regulate B-cell differentiation by promoting naïve B-cell differentiation into CD27+ B cells, and Blimp-1 and Bcl-6 also decreased after inhibitor treatment. These findings provide a new direction for the pathogenesis of SLE and may supply a new idea for subsequent drug development.
PURPOSE: Primary B cell defects manifesting as predominantly antibody deficiencies result from variable inborn errors of the B cell lineage and their development, including impairments in early bone marrow development, class switch recombination (CSR), or terminal B cell differentiation. In this study, we aimed to investigate autoimmunity in monogenic patients with B cell development and differentiation defects.METHODS: Patients with known genetic defects in the B cell development and differentiation were recruited from the Iranian inborn errors of immunity registry.RESULTS: A total of 393 patients with a known genetic defect in the B cell development and differentiation (257 males; 65.4%) with a median age of 12 (6-20) years were enrolled in this study. After categorizing patients, 109 patients had intrinsic B cell defects. More than half of the patients had defects in one of the ATM (85 patients), BTK (76 patients), LRBA (34 patients), and DOCK8 (33 patients) genes. Fifteen patients (3.8%) showed autoimmune complications as their first manifestation. During the course of the disease, autoimmunity was reported in 81 (20.6%) patients at a median age of 4 (2-7) years, among which 65 patients had mixed intrinsic and extrinsic and 16 had intrinsic B cell defects. The comparison between patients with the mentioned four main gene defects showed that the patient group with LRBA defect had a significantly higher frequency of autoimmunity compared to those with other gene defects. Based on the B cell defect stage, 13% of patients with early B cell defect, 17% of patients with CSR defect, and 40% of patients who had terminal B cell defect presented at least one type of autoimmunity.CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrated that gene mutations involved in human B cell terminal stage development mainly LRBA gene defect have the highest association with autoimmunity.
OBJECTIVE: Clinical diagnosis of acute appendicitis is often difficult and involves a synthesis of clinical, laboratory, and radiological findings. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the systemic immune inflammation index can be used as an effective parameter in the diagnosis of acute appendicitis and its reliability in the differentiation of complicated vs. non-complicated appendicitis.METHODS: The study was conducted retrospectively with patients admitted to the emergency department with abdominal pain and diagnosed with acute appendicitis. In total, 150 patients and 150 control cases were included in the study. Demographic data, medical history, white blood cell count, platelet count, neutrophil count, systemic immune inflammation index values, Alvarado score, adult appendicitis score, and pathology result of appendectomy material were retrieved from the hospital automation system and recorded in the data form.RESULTS: Neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio and systemic immune inflammation index were significantly higher, and platelet-neutrophil ratio and lymphocyte-neutrophil ratio were significantly lower in the patient group compared to the control group (p<0.001). Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that the sensitivity and specificity of systemic immune inflammation index with a cutoff value of 840.13 was 82 and 66.7%, respectively, for the diagnosis of acute appendicitis. Correlation analysis revealed that systemic immune inflammation index, Alvarado score, and adult appendicitis score were positively correlated, and this correlation was statistically significant.CONCLUSION: Systemic immune inflammation index may be used to promote the diagnosis of acute appendicitis and may reduce the need for radiation exposure and diagnostic imaging tests such as contrast-enhanced abdominal computed tomography. It can also be used to differentiate between complicated and non-complicated acute appendicitis cases.
BACKGROUND: Sepsis is typically associated with poor outcomes. There are various risk factors and predictive models for sepsis based on clinical indicators. However, these models are usually predictive of all critical patients. This study explored the risk factors for 28-day outcomes of patients with sepsis and developed a prognosis prediction model.METHODS: This was a multicenter retrospective analysis of sepsis patients hospitalized in three intensive care units (ICUs) from September 1st 2015, to June 30th 2020. Demographic, clinical history, and laboratory test data were extracted from patient records. Investigators explored the risk factors affecting 28-day sepsis prognosis by univariate analysis. The effects of confounding factors were excluded by multivariate logistic regression analysis, and new joint predictive factors were calculated. A model predicting 28-day sepsis prognosis was constructed through data processing analysis.RESULTS: A total of 545 patients with sepsis were included. The 28-day mortality rate was 32.3%. Risk factors including age, D-dimer, albumin, creatinine, and prothrombin time (PT) were predictive of death from sepsis. The goodness-of-fit value for this prediction model was 0.534, and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.7207. Further analysis of the immune subgroups (n=140) revealed a significant decrease in CD3+, CD4+CD8-, and CD4+CD29+ memory effector T lymphocytes and an increase in CD56+ natural killer (NK) cells in the hypoalbuminemia group compared with the normal albumin group (65.5 vs. 58.3, P=0.005; 41.2 vs. 32.4, P=0.005; 21.8 vs. 17.1, P=0.029; 12.6 vs. 17.6, P=0.004).CONCLUSIONS: Risk factors for 28-day sepsis mortality include age, D-dimer, creatinine, PT, and albumin. A decrease in albumin level may exacerbate immunosuppression in patients with sepsis. This study establishes a prediction model based on these indicators, which shows a good degree of calibration and differentiation. This model may provide good predictive value for clinical sepsis prognosis.
OBJECTIVES: Anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5-positive dermatomyositis (MDA5+DM) is an autoimmune disease frequently accompanied by rapidly progressive interstitial lung disease (RP-ILD) with high mortality. T cells are implicated in the pathogenesis of MDA5+DM and this study aims to measure the frequency and clinical relevance of cytotoxic CD4 and CD8 T cells in this disease.METHODS: T cells expressing Perforin, Granzyme B (GZMB) and Granzyme K (GZMK) were analyzed by flow cytometry from peripheral blood of 19 patients with active MDA5+DM and 19 age- and sex-matched healthy donors (HDs). The frequency of CD4 and CD8 T cells and the cytotoxic subsets were compared between patients with MDA5+DM and HDs. Correlations within T cell subsets and between T cell subsets and clinical parameters of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), ferritin, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and Myositis Intention-to-Treat Index (MITAX) were evaluated.RESULTS: Compared with HDs, patients with active MDA5+DM significantly had increased frequency of CD4 T cells, and reduced frequency of GZMK+GZMB- CD8 T cells. Furthermore, the frequency of GZMK+GZMB- CD8 T cells positively correlated with serum ferritin levels in active MDA5+DM patients. Notably, the patients in the Dead group of MDA5+DM had a significant higher frequency of GZMK+GZMB- CD4 and CD8 T cells.CONCLUSION: Substantial changes of cytotoxic T cell subsets are observed in active MDA5+DM patients. In addition, a high frequency of GZMK+GZMB- CD4 and CD8 T cells is associated with unfavorable prognosis in MDA5+DM. More studies are warranted to further explore the roles of cytotoxic T cells in MDA5+DM.
BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are an essential treatment for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Currently, the tumor-related intrinsic factors in response to ICIs have mostly been elucidated in tissue samples. However, tissue immune status and changes in the immune microenvironment can also be reflected and monitored through peripheral blood.METHODS: Single-cell RNA and T cell receptor (scTCR) sequencing were conducted using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 60 patients with stage IV NSCLC. Those samples were prospectively acquired from patients treated with anti-PD(L)-1 therapy for advanced lung cancer. Based on the clinical outcomes, samples were classified as durable clinical benefit (DCB) and non-durable clinical benefit (NCB). The samples constituted paired longitudinal samples, consisting of pre-treatment and on-treatment. Additionally, PBMC samples from 60 healthy donors from the Asian Immune Diversity Atlas project were used as a control.RESULTS: The dynamic changes in major cell types between pre-treatment and on-treatment PBMCs were associated with an increase in proliferating T cells and NK cells in both DCB and NCB groups. Among T cell subtypes, effector memory CD8+ T cells (CD8+ TEM_GZMK_PDCD1) were increased after ICI treatment in both DCB and NCB. From the lineage trajectory analysis, effector memory CD8+ T cells resided at the bifurcation point, which has the potential to differentiate into lineages with precursor exhausted CD8+ T cells (CD8+ TCM cells) assumed to be related to the ICI response. From the scTCR-seq, effector memory CD8+ T cells along with T cells recognizing unknown antigen expanded and composed of novel clones skewed toward dysfunctional status, especially in on-treatment samples of the DCB group. The extent of immunophenotype conversion capabilities of the TCR with effector memory CD8+ T cells showed remarkable variation in the on-treatment sample in the DCB group.CONCLUSION: A transitioning T cell subtype identified in PBMCs might be related to the prolonged ICI response. From our study, expansion of effector memory CD8+ T cells with novel TCRs in PBMCs after ICI treatment could contribute to a better clinical outcome in patients with NSCLC. This proof-of-concept research strengthens the use of non-invasive PBMCs in studying systemic changes of immune reactions related to the ICI treatment.
T-cell receptor (TCR) binding strength to peptide-MHC antigen complex influences numerous T-cell functions. However, the vast diversity of a polyclonal T-cell repertoire for even a single antigen greatly increases the complexity of studying the impact of TCR affinity on T-cell function. Here, we determined how TCR binding strength affected the protein and transcriptional profile of an endogenous, polyclonal T-cell response to a known tumor-associated antigen (TAA) within the tumor microenvironment (TME). We confirmed that the staining intensity by flow cytometry and the counts by sequencing from MHC-tetramer labeling were reliable surrogates for the TCR-peptide-MHC steady-state binding affinity. We further demonstrated by single-cell RNA sequencing that tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) with high and low binding affinity for a TAA can differentiate into cells with many antigen-specific transcriptional profiles within an established TME. However, more progenitor-like phenotypes were significantly biased towards lower affinity T cells, and proliferating phenotypes showed significant bias towards high-affinity TILs. In addition, we found that higher affinity T cells advanced more rapidly to terminal phases of T-cell exhaustion and exhibited better tumor control. We confirmed the polyclonal TIL results using a TCR transgenic mouse possessing a single low-affinity TCR targeting the same TAA. These T cells maintained a progenitor-exhausted phenotype and exhibited impaired tumor control. We propose that high-affinity TCR interactions drive T-cell fate decisions more rapidly than low-affinity interactions and that these cells differentiate faster. These findings illustrate divergent forms of T-cell dysfunction based on TCR affinity which may impact TIL therapies and antitumor responses.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether medication-overuse headache patients have differential DNA-methylation pattern.METHODS: We collected blood samples from 120 medication-overuse headache-patients, 57 controls (29 episodic migraine patients and 28 healthy controls) in a hypothesis-generating cross-sectional case-control pilot study; 100 of the medication-overuse headache-patients were followed for six months and samples were collected at two and six months for the longitudinal methylation analyses. Blood cell proportions of leucocytes (neutrophils, NK-cells, monocytes, CD8+ and CD4+ T-cells, and B-cells) and the neutrophile-lymphocyte ratio were estimated using methylation data as a measure for immunological analysis and a cell type-specific epigenome wide association study was conducted between medication-overuse headache-patients and controls, and longitudinally for reduction in headache days/month among medication-overuse headache-patients.RESULTS: We found a higher neutrophile-lymphocyte ratio in medication-overuse headache-patients compared to controls, indicating a higher immunological response in medication-overuse headache-patients (false discovery rate (adjusted p-value)<0.001). Reduction in headache days/month (9.8; 95% CI 8.1-11.5) was associated with lower neutrophile-lymphocyte ratio (false discovery rate adjusted p-value = 0.041).Three genes (CORIN, CCKBR and CLDN9) were hypermethylated in specific cell types in medication-overuse headache-patients compared to controls. No methylation differences were associated with reduction in headache days in medication-overuse headache-patients after six months.CONCLUSION: This pilot study was consistent with higher immunological response in medication-overuse headache-patients which decreased with a reduction in headache days in longitudinal analysis. medication-overuse headache-patients exhibited differential methylation in innate immune cells but did not exhibit longitudinal differences with alterations in headache days. Our study creates hypotheses for further biomarker searches.ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02993289.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to examine the diagnostic and prognostic value of the platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) in patients with polymyositis/dermatomyositis (PM/DM).METHOD: Clinical data of 200 patients with PM/DM and 204 healthy controls were retrospectively reviewed. We examined whether the PLR and NLR were associated with PM/DM.RESULTS: The PLR and NLR were higher in patients with PM/DM than in controls (both P < 0.001). The PLR and NLR were higher in patients with DM than in those with PM (both P < 0.01). The PLR was higher in the anti-melanoma differentiation-associated protein-5 (anti-MDA5) + PM/DM group than in the anti-MDA5- PM/DM group (P = 0.002). The NLR in non-survivors was higher than that in survivors (P = 0.01). The NLR was positively correlated with the occurrence of interstitial lung disease (ILD). The PLR and NLR were independent predictors of PM/DM, as well as risk factors (both P < 0.001). Moreover, the NLR had a predictive value for PM/DM-ILD and was closely related to mortality (P = 0.033, P = 0.003, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: Patients with PM/DM have a higher NLR and PLR than healthy controls, especially in those with anti-MDA5+. The PLR and NLR are independent risk factors for PM/DM and have some predictive value. The NLR is correlated with ILD and associated with an increased risk of mortality in patients with PM/DM. The NLR and PLR may be simple, economical, and accurate diagnostic and prognostic markers for patients with PM/DM. Key points • The neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) have been studied in numerous inflammatory diseases as potential markers, but their clinical significance in polymyositis/dermatomyositis (PM/DM) remains unclear. • We examined the changes in the NLR and PLR between patients with PM/DM and healthy controls, as well as their association with mortality, interstitial lung disease, and anti-melanoma differentiation-associated protein-5. • Patients with PM/DM may benefit from using the NLR and PLR as simple, economical, and accurate diagnostic and prognostic markers.
Author information:(1)Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital, National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, KeyLaboratory of Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin's Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Key Laboratoryof Breast Cancer Prevention and Theraphy, Ministry of Education, Tianjin 300060, China.(2)Department of Oncology, Institute of Integrative Oncology, Tianjin Union Medical Center of Nankai University, Tianjin 300121, China.
Author information:(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Nanyang Central Hospital, Nanyang 473000, China.(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450052, China.
T and B cells participate in the development of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). BTB and CNC homology 2 (Bach2) is an irreplaceable regulator in the T and B lineages that helps to maintain immune homeostasis. However, the function of Bach2 in the pathogenesis of SLE has not been studied in depth. Flow cytometry and qRT-PCR were used to assess Bach2 levels, bisulfite sequencing PCR was used to measure the methylation level, and silencing by electroporation and stimulation with a cytokine concentration gradient were used to investigate the effect of Bach2 on T cells. Bach2 expression was elevated in the helper T-cell subsets (T follicular helper, Th1, Th2, Th17, and Treg cells) of SLE patients and negatively correlated with disease severity and autoantibody levels. CD4+ T cells from SLE patients had decreased methylation levels in the Bach2 promoter region. Silencing Bach2 in CD4+ T cells induced increases in the CD19+ B-cell count, plasmablasts, and secretion of IgG by prompting the secretion of cytokines. The activation signals CD3/CD28, IL-6, and IL-21 upregulated Bach2 expression in CD4+ T cells. The regulation of Bach2 by cytokines and T-cell activation signals in CD4+ T cells was shown to act on B cells and play a protective role against SLE.
A subgroup of T cells called T-regulatory cells (Tregs) regulates the body's immune responses to maintain homeostasis and self-tolerance. Tregs are crucial for preventing illnesses like cancer and autoimmunity. However, contrasting patterns of Treg frequency are observed in different autoimmune diseases. The commonality of tumour necrosis factor receptor 2 (TNFR2) defects and decrease in Treg frequency on the onset of autoimmunity demands an in-depth study of the TNFR2 pathway. To unravel this mystery, we need to study the mechanism of cell survival and death in Tregs. Here, we construct an ordinary differential equation (ODE)-based model to capture the mechanism of cell survival and apoptosis in Treg cells via TNFR2 signalling. The sensitivity analysis reveals that the input stimulus, the concentration of tumour necrosis factor (TNF), is the most sensitive parameter for the model system. The model shows that the cell goes into survival or apoptosis via bistable switching. Through hysteretic switching, the system tries to cope with the changing stimuli. In order to understand how stimulus strength and feedback strength influence cell survival and death, we compute bifurcation diagrams and obtain cell fate maps. Our results indicate that the elevated TNF concentration and increased c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation are the major contributors to the death of T-regulatory cells. Biological evidence cements our hypothesis and can be controlled by reducing the TNF concentration. Finally, the system was studied under stochastic perturbation to see the effect of noise on the system's dynamics. We observed that introducing random perturbations disrupts the bistability, reducing the system's bistable region, which can affect the system's normal functioning.
Comment on    J Pediatr. 2021 Feb;229:26-32.e2.
DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-2505850/v1PMCID: PMC9915794PMID: 36778283
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is the most common cause of end-stage renal disease and has gradually become a public health problem worldwide. DKD is increasingly recognized as a comprehensive inflammatory disease that is largely regulated by T cells. Given the pivotal role of T cells and T cells-producing cytokines in DKD, we summarized recent advances concerning T cells in the progression of type 2 diabetic nephropathy and provided a novel perspective of immune-related factors in diabetes. Specific emphasis is placed on the classification of T cells, process of T cell recruitment, function of T cells in the development of diabetic kidney damage, and potential treatments and therapeutic strategies involving T cells.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is involved in diverse immunoregulation, while the relationship between m6A modification and immune tolerance post kidney transplantation remains unclear. Expression of Wilms tumor 1-associating protein (WTAP), an m6A writer, was firstly detected in tolerant kidney transplant recipients (TOL). Then the role of WTAP on regulatory T (Treg) cell differentiation and function in CD4+ T cells from kidney transplant recipients with immune rejection (IR) was investigated. The potential target of WTAP and effect of WTAP on immune tolerance in vivo were subsequently verified. WTAP was upregulated in CD4+ T cells of TOL and positively correlated with Treg cell proportion. In vitro, WTAP overexpression promoted Treg cell differentiation and enhanced Treg cell-mediated suppression toward naïve T cells. Forkhead box other 1 (Foxo1) was identified as a target of WTAP. WTAP enhanced m6A modification of Foxo1 mRNA in coding sequence (CDS) region, leading to up-regulation of Foxo1. Overexpression of m6A demethylase removed the effect of WTAP overexpression, while Foxo1 overexpression reversed these effects. WTAP overexpression alleviated allograft rejection in model mice, as evidenced by reduced inflammatory response and increased Treg population. Our study suggests that WTAP plays a positive role in induction of immune tolerance post kidney transplant by promoting Treg cell differentiation and function.
Author information:(1)Internal medicine, Miyazaki prefectural Nobeoka Hospital.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, University of Tsukuba Hospital.(2)Department of Hematology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba.(3)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, University of Tsukuba Hospital.(4)Department of Pathology, Tokai University School of Medicine.
Rosai Dorfman Disease (RDD) is a benign histiocytic lymphoproliferative disease that has variable presentations. The concurrent presentation of RDD in the spinal cord and brain parenchyma is an extremely rare entity. Here, we report another case of a 24-year-old gentleman who presented with a tuberculum sellae and bilateral cavernous extra-axial tumors extending to the subtemporal lobe and was found to have craniocervical lesions. Axillary lymph node biopsy was done showing markedly dilated sinuses filled with large histiocytes and emperipolesis of numerous lymphocytes and plasma cells confirming the diagnosis of RDD. Because the definitive diagnosis of RDD is always pathological, the clinical presentation plays a major role in widening the margin of differential diagnosis. Finally, surgical intervention is the first option to treat RDD with relatively satisfactory follow-up outcomes, and other adjuvant therapies optimize the prognosis.
BACKGROUND: Due to a lack of studies on immune-related pathogenesis and a clinical diagnostic model, the diagnosis of Spinal Tuberculosis (STB) remains uncertain. Our study aimed to investigate the possible pathogenesis of STB and to develop a clinical diagnostic model for STB based on immune cell infiltration.METHODS: Label-free quantification protein analysis of five pairs of specimens was used to determine the protein expression of the intervertebral disc in STB and non-STB. GO enrichment analysis, and KEGG pathway analysis were used to investigate the pathogenesis of STB. The Hub proteins were then eliminated. Four datasets were downloaded from the GEO database to analyze immune cell infiltration, and the results were validated using blood routine test data from 8535TB and 7337 non-TB patients. Following that, clinical data from 164 STB and 162 non-STB patients were collected. The Random-Forest algorithm was used to screen out clinical predictors of STB and build a diagnostic model. The differential expression of MMP9 and STAT1 in STB and controls was confirmed using immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: MMP9 and STAT1 were STB Hub proteins that were linked to disc destruction in STB. MMP9 and STAT1 were found to be associated with Monocytes, Neutrophils, and Lymphocytes in immune cell infiltration studies. Data from 15,872 blood routine tests revealed that the Monocytes ratio and Neutrophils ratio was significantly higher in TB patients than in non-TB patients (p < 0.001), while the Lymphocytes ratio was significantly lower in TB patients than in non-TB patients (p < 0.001). MMP9 and STAT1 expression were downregulated following the anti-TB therapy. For STB, a clinical diagnostic model was built using six clinical predictors: MR, NR, LR, ESR, BMI, and PLT. The model was evaluated using a ROC curve, which yielded an AUC of 0.816.CONCLUSIONS: MMP9 and STAT1, immune-related hub proteins, were correlated with immune cell infiltration in STB patients. MR, NR, LR ESR, BMI, and PLT were clinical predictors of STB. Thus, the immune cell Infiltration-related clinical diagnostic model can predict STB effectively.
According to the WHO, the secondary form of hematopoietic-depressive status increases the risk of death in people with oncological, infectious, and hormonal diseases. The choice of drugs that stimulate the hematopoietic activity of B-lymphopoiesis is limited. The current leucopoiesis drugs have a number of side effects: thymic preparations stimulate the production of PGE2, which causes chronic inflammation and various autoimmune diseases through the differentiation of T helper 1 (Th1) cells, the proliferation of Th17 cells, and the production of IL-22 from Th22 cells through EP2 and EP4 receptors; cytokine preparations can cause uncontrolled immune reactions and impaired contractility of smooth and cardiac muscles; drugs based on nucleic acids can stimulate the division of all cells, including bacterial and cancerous ones. The use of oligonucleotides such as ribozymes and antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (AS-ODNs) shows promise as therapeutic moieties, but faces a number of challenges such as nuclease sensitivity, off-target effects, and efficient delivery. The search for substances that stimulate B-lymphopoiesis among ionic compounds was motivated by the discovery of the unique properties of lidocaine docusate, one of the first ionic liquid forms of the known drugs. The lidocaine docusate (protonated form of lidocaine (2-(diethylamino)-N-(2,6-dimethylphenyl) acetamide + docusate-anion (dioctylsulfosuccinate))) suppresses the division of pheochromocytoma cells and activates immunity in rats. The trimecaine-based ionic compound (TIC) demonstrates high B-lymphopoiesis-stimulating activity. The TIC compound stimulates an increase in the volume of transitional B cells, which play an important role for further differentiation and formation of a sufficient number of mature B1 cells and mature B2 cells, where mature B2 cells make up the bulk of the functional population of B lymphocytes. The TIC compound most strongly stimulated the restoration of the number of marginal zone B cells, follicular B cells, and activated germinal center B cells after the cytotoxic emptying of the follicular centers of the spleen induced cyclophosphamide. It significantly exceeds the activity of the comparison drug methyluracil. The TIC compound does not affect the level of pro-B, pre-B-I, or pre-B-II bone marrow cells, which prevents the risk of the formation of immature functionally defective cells.
The exact mechanisms of the evolution of multiple sclerosis are still unknown. At the same time, the development in C57BL/6 mice of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE, simulating human multiple sclerosis) happens as a result of the violation of bone marrow hematopoietic stem cell differentiation profiles integrated with the production of toxic auto-antibodies splitting the basic myelin protein, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), histones, and DNA. It has been shown that IgGs from the plasma of healthy humans and autoimmune patients oxidize many different compounds due to their peroxidase (H2O2-dependent) and oxidoreductase (H2O2-independent) activities. Here, we first analyzed the changes in the relative catalase activity of IgGs from C57BL/6 mice blood plasma over time at different stages of the EAE development (onset, acute, and remission phases). It was shown that the catalase activity of IgGs of 3-month-old mice is, on average, relatively low (kcat = 40.7 min-1), but it increases during 60 days of spontaneous development of EAE 57.4-fold (kcat = 2.3 × 103 min-1). The catalase activity of antibodies increases by a factor of 57.4 by 20 days after the immunization of mice with MOG (kcat = 2.3 × 103 min-1), corresponding to the acute phase of EAE development, and 52.7-fold by 60 days after the treatment of mice with a DNA-histone complex (kcat = 2.1 × 103 min-1). It is the acceleration of the EAE development after the treatment of mice with MOG that leads to the increased production of lymphocytes synthesizing antibodies with catalase activity. All data show that the IgGs' catalase activity can play an essential role in reducing the H2O2 concentration and protecting mice from oxidative stress.
Little is known about the distribution of etiology in obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) combined with chronic breathlessness. A significant portion of patients in this group have so-called "overlap syndrome (OVS)", characterized by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). OVS has more complications and a poorer prognosis compared to patients with either OSA or COPD alone, which makes it important to identify OVS early in OSA. The current study was a retrospective cross-sectional analysis of consecutive adult patients who were diagnosed with OSA (n = 1062), of whom 275 were hospitalized due to chronic breathlessness. Respiratory and cardiac diseases accounted for the vast majority of causes, followed by gastrointestinal and renal disorders. The final study population comprised 115 patients with OSA alone (n = 64) and OVS (n = 51), who had chronic breathlessness as the primary complaint, not secondary as one of many other complaints. Lymphocytes, CD4 counts, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and PLR were differently expressed between the OSA-alone group and OVS group. The NLR, lymphocytes, and CD4 counts had a moderate diagnostic value for OVS in OSA patients, with AUCs of 0.708 (95% CI, 0.614-0.802), 0.719 (95% CI, 0.624-0.813), and 0.744 (95% CI, 0.653-0.834), respectively. The NLR had the highest AUC for predicting a 6-month re-admission of OVS, with a cut-off of 3.567 and a moderate prognostic value. The sensitivity and specificity were 0.8 and 0.732, respectively. In the animal model, the spleen hematoxylin- and eosin-stained, electron microscopy images showed germinal-center damage, chromatin activation, and mitochondrial swelling under the overlapping effect of intermittent hypoxia and cigarette smoke exposure. OSA with chronic breathlessness cannot be overstated. A significant proportion of patients with COPD in this group had poor lung function at initial diagnosis. The NLR is a useful biomarker to differentiate OVS among OSA patients combined with chronic breathlessness.
The Hedgehog (HH) signaling network is one of the main regulators of invertebrate and vertebrate embryonic development. Along with other networks, such as NOTCH and WNT, HH signaling specifies both the early patterning and the polarity events as well as the subsequent organ formation via the temporal and spatial regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation. However, aberrant activation of HH signaling has been identified in a broad range of malignant disorders, where it positively influences proliferation, survival, and therapeutic resistance of neoplastic cells. Inhibitors targeting the HH pathway have been tested in preclinical cancer models. The HH pathway is also overactive in other blood malignancies, including T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). This review is intended to summarize our knowledge of the biological roles and pathophysiology of the HH pathway during normal T-cell lymphopoiesis and in T-ALL. In addition, we will discuss potential therapeutic strategies that might expand the clinical usefulness of drugs targeting the HH pathway in T-ALL.
Cell-intrinsic immune mechanisms control intracellular pathogens that infect eukaryotes. The intracellular pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) evolved to withstand cell-autonomous immunity to cause persistent infections and disease. A potent inducer of cell-autonomous immunity is the lymphocyte-derived cytokine IFNγ. While the production of IFNγ by T cells is essential to protect against Mtb, it is not capable of fully eradicating Mtb infection. This suggests that Mtb evades a subset of IFNγ-mediated antimicrobial responses, yet what mechanisms Mtb resists remains unclear. The IFNγ-inducible Guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are key host defense proteins able to control infections with intracellular pathogens. GBPs were previously shown to directly restrict Mycobacterium bovis BCG yet their role during Mtb infection has remained unknown. Here, we examine the importance of a cluster of five GBPs on mouse chromosome 3 in controlling Mycobacterial infection. While M. bovis BCG is directly restricted by GBPs, we find that the GBPs on chromosome 3 do not contribute to the control of Mtb replication or the associated host response to infection. The differential effects of GBPs during Mtb versus M. bovis BCG infection is at least partially explained by the absence of the ESX1 secretion system from M. bovis BCG, since Mtb mutants lacking the ESX1 secretion system become similarly susceptible to GBP-mediated immune defense. Therefore, this specific genetic interaction between the murine host and Mycobacteria reveals a novel function for the ESX1 virulence system in the evasion of GBP-mediated immunity.
Activating the immune system plays an important role in maintaining physiological homeostasis and defending the body against harmful infections. However, abnormalities in the immune response can lead to various immunopathological responses and severe inflammation. The activation of dendritic cells (DCs) can influence immunological responses by promoting the differentiation of T cells into various functional subtypes crucial for the eradication of pathogens. CD83 is a molecule known to be expressed on mature DCs, activated B cells, and T cells. Two isotypes of CD83, a membrane-bound form and a soluble form, are subjects of extensive scientific research. It has been suggested that CD83 is not only a ubiquitous co-stimulatory molecule but also a crucial player in monitoring and resolving inflammatory reactions. Although CD83 has been involved in immunological responses, its functions in autoimmune diseases and effects on pathogen immune evasion remain unclear. Herein, we outline current immunological findings and the proposed function of CD83 in inflammatory disorders.
CD56+ T cells are generally recognized as a distinct population of T cells and are categorized as NKT-like cells. Although our understanding of NKT-like cells is far from satisfactory, it has been shown that aging and a number of disease situations have impacted these cells. To construct an overview of what is currently known, we reviewed the literature on human NKT-like cells. NKT-like cells are highly differentiated T cells with "CD1d-independent" antigen recognition and MHC-unrestricted cell killing. The genesis of NKT-like cells is unclear; however, it is proposed that the acquisition of innate characteristics by T cells could represent a remodeling process leading to successful aging. Additionally, it has been shown that NKT-like cells may play a significant role in several pathological conditions, making it necessary to comprehend whether these cells might function as prognostic markers. The quantification and characterization of these cells might serve as a cutting-edge indicator of individual immune health. Additionally, exploring the mechanisms that can control their killing activity in different contexts may therefore result in innovative therapeutic alternatives in a wide range of disease settings.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is an umbrella term for the chronic immune-mediated idiopathic inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, manifesting as Crohn's disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC). IBD is characterized by exacerbated innate and adaptive immunity in the gut in association with microbiota dysbiosis and the disruption of the intestinal barrier, resulting in increased bacterial exposure. In response to signals from microorganisms and damaged tissue, innate immune cells produce inflammatory cytokines and factors that stimulate T and B cells of the adaptive immune system, and a prominent characteristic of IBD patients is the accumulation of inflammatory T-cells and their proinflammatory-associated cytokines in intestinal tissue. Upon antigen recognition and activation, CD4 T-cells differentiate towards a range of distinct phenotypes: T helper(h)1, Th2, Th9, Th17, Th22, T follicular helper (Tfh), and several types of T-regulatory cells (Treg). T-cells are generated according to and adapt to microenvironmental conditions and participate in a complex network of interactions among other immune cells that modulate the further progression of IBD. This review examines the role of the CD4 T-cells most relevant to IBD, highlighting how these cells adapt to the environment and interact with other cell populations to promote or inhibit the development of IBD.
Soluble fibrinogen-like protein 2 (sFgl2), a novel effector of regulatory T cells (Tregs), has been demonstrated to have potent immunosuppressive functions. Multiple studies indicate that Tregs could exert important atheroprotective effects, but their numbers gradually decrease during atherogenesis. The receptor of sFgl2 can be expressed on Treg precursor cells, while the role of sFgl2 on Treg differentiation and atherosclerosis progression remains unclear. Firstly, we detected that the sFgl2 was decreased in humans and mice with atherosclerotic diseases and was especially lower in their vulnerable plaques. Then, we used both Adeno-associated virus-sFgl2 (AAV-sFgl2)-injected ApoE-/- mice, which is systemic overexpression of sFgl2, and sFgl2TgApoE-/- bone marrow cells (BMC)-transplanted ApoE-/- mice, which is almost immune-system-specific overexpression of sFgl2, to explore the role of sFgl2 in atherosclerosis. Our experiment data showed that AAV-sFgl2 and BMT-sFgl2 could reduce atherosclerotic area and enhance plaque stability. Mechanistically, sFgl2 increases the abundance and immunosuppressive function of Tregs, which is partly mediated by binding to FcγRIIB receptors and phosphorylating Smad2/3. Collectively, sFgl2 has an atheroprotective effect that is mainly achieved by forming a positive feedback pathway with Treg. sFgl2 and Treg could synergistically protect against atherosclerosis.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) accounts for 15-20% of all breast cancer cases. Due to the lack of expression of well-known molecular targets [estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)], there is a need for more alternative treatment approaches in TNBC. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell-based immunotherapy treatment is one of the latest treatment technologies with outstanding therapeutic advances in the past decade, especially in the treatment of hematologic malignancies, but the therapeutic effects of CAR-T cells against solid tumors have not yet shown significant clinical benefits. Identification of highly specific CAR-T targets in solid tumors is also crucial for its successful treatment. CD22 is reported to be a multifunctional receptor that is mainly expressed on the surface of mature B-cells (lymphocytes) and is also highly expressed in most B-cell malignancies. This study aimed to investigate the expression of CD22 in TNBC. Bioinformatic analysis was performed to evaluate the expression of CD22 in breast carcinoma and normal tissues. RNA-seq data of normal and breast carcinoma patients were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and differential gene expression was performed using R language. Additionally, online bioinformatics web tools (GEPIA and TNM plot) were used to evaluate the expression of CD22 in breast carcinoma and normal tissues. Western blot (WB) analysis and immunofluorescence (IF) were performed to characterize the expression of CD22 in TNBC cell lines. Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was performed on tumor specimens from 97 TNBC patients for CD22 expression. Moreover, statistical analysis was performed to analyze the association of clinical pathological parameters with CD22 expression. Correlation analysis between overall survival data of TNBC patients and CD22 expression was also performed. Differential gene expression analysis of TCGA data revealed that CD22 is among the upregulated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with high expression in breast cancer, as compared to normal breast tissues. WB and IF analysis revealed high expression of CD22 in TNBC cell lines. IHC results also showed that approximately 62.89% (61/97) of TNBC specimens were stained positive for CD22. Cell membrane expression of CD22 was evident in 23.71% (23/97) of TNBC specimens, and 39.18% (38/97) of TNBC specimens showed cytoplasmic/membrane expression, while 37.11% (36/97) specimens were negative for CD22. Furthermore, significant associations were found between the size of tumors in TNBC patients and CD22 expression, which unveils its potential as a prognostic biomarker. No significant correlation was found between the overall survival of TNBC patients and CD22 expression. In conclusion, we demonstrated for the first time that CD22 is highly expressed in TNBC. Based on our findings, we anticipated that CD22 could be used as a prognostic biomarker in TNBC, and it might be a potential CAR-T target in TNBC for whom few therapeutic options exist. However, more large-scale studies and clinical trials will ensure its potential usefulness as a CAR-T target in TNBC.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) characterised by acute inflammation and subsequent neuro-axonal degeneration resulting in progressive neurological impairment. Aberrant immune system activation in the periphery and subsequent lymphocyte migration to the CNS contribute to the pathophysiology. Recent research has identified metabolic dysfunction as an additional feature of MS. It is already well known that energy deficiency in neurons caused by impaired mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation results in ionic imbalances that trigger degenerative pathways contributing to white and grey matter atrophy. However, metabolic dysfunction in MS appears to be more widespread than the CNS. This review focuses on recent research assessing the metabolism and mitochondrial function in peripheral immune cells of MS patients and lymphocytes isolated from murine models of MS. Emerging evidence suggests that pharmacological modulation of lymphocytic metabolism may regulate their subtype differentiation and rebalance pro- and anti-inflammatory functions. As such, further understanding of MS immunometabolism may aid the identification of novel treatments to specifically target proinflammatory immune responses.
In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the infiltration of CD8+ cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) is an important factor in determining prognosis. The migration pattern and interaction behavior of intratumoral CTLs are pivotal to tumor rejection. NLRP3-dependent proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IL-18 play a prominent role for CTL induction and differentiation. Here, we investigate the effects of T-cellular IL-1R and IL-18R signaling for intratumoral T-cell motility. Murine adenocarcinoma cell line Panc02 was stably transfected with ovalbumin (OVA) and fluorophore H2B-Cerulean to generate PancOVA H2B-Cerulean tumor cells. Dorsal skinfold chambers (DSFC) were installed on wild-type mice, and PancOVA H2B-Cerulean tumor cells were implanted into the chambers. PancOVA spheroids were formed using the Corning® Matrigel®-based 3D cell culture technique. CTLs were generated from OT-1 mice, Il1r-/- OT-1 mice, or Il18r-/- OT-1 mice and were marked with fluorophores. This was followed by the adoptive transfer of CTLs into tumor-bearing mice or the application into tumor spheroids. After visualization with multiphoton microscopy (MPM), Imaris software was used to perform T-cell tracking. Imaris analysis indicates a significantly higher accumulation of Il18r-/- CTLs in PancOVA tumors and a significant reduction in tumor volume compared to wild-type CTLs. Il18r-/- CTLs covered a longer distance (track displacement length) in comparison to wild-type (WT) CTLs, and had a higher average speed (mean track speed). The analysis of instantaneous velocity suggests a higher percentage of arrested tracks (arrests: <4 μm/min) for Il18r-/- CTLs. Our data indicate the contribution of IL-18R signaling to T-cell effector strength, warranting further investigation on phenomena such as intratumoral T-cell exhaustion.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common leukemia in the Western world. Studies of CLL antibody reactivity have shown differential targets to autoantigens and antimicrobial molecular motifs that support the current hypothesis of CLL pathogenesis.METHODS: In this study, we conducted a quantitative serum analysis of 7 immunoglobulins in CLL and monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) patients (bead-suspension protein arrays) and a serological profile (IgG and IgM) study of autoantibodies and antimicrobial antigens (protein microarrays).RESULTS: Significant differences in the IgA levels were observed according to disease progression and evolution as well as significant alterations in IgG1 according to IGHV mutational status. More representative IgG autoantibodies in the cohort were against nonmutagenic proteins and IgM autoantibodies were against vesicle proteins. Antimicrobial IgG and IgM were detected against microbes associated with respiratory tract infections.CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative differences in immunoglobulin serum levels could be potential biomarkers for disease progression. In the top 5 tumoral antigens, we detected autoantibodies (IgM and IgG) against proteins related to cell homeostasis and metabolism in the studied cohort. The top 5 microbial antigens were associated with respiratory and gastrointestinal infections; moreover, the subsets with better prognostics were characterized by a reactivation of Cytomegalovirus. The viral humoral response could be a potential prognosis biomarker for disease progression.
BACKGROUND: Pregnancy in women with multiple sclerosis (wwMS) is associated with a reduction of long-term disability progression. The mechanism that drives this effect is unknown, but converging evidence suggests a role for epigenetic mechanisms altering immune and/or central nervous system function. In this study, we aimed to identify whole blood and immune cell-specific DNA methylation patterns associated with parity in relapse-onset MS.RESULTS: We investigated the association between whole blood and immune cell-type-specific genome-wide methylation patterns and parity in 192 women with relapse-onset MS, matched for age and disease severity. The median time from last pregnancy to blood collection was 16.7 years (range = 1.5-44.4 years). We identified 2965 differentially methylated positions in whole blood, 68.5% of which were hypermethylated in parous women; together with two differentially methylated regions on Chromosomes 17 and 19 which mapped to TMC8 and ZNF577, respectively. Our findings validated 22 DMPs and 366 differentially methylated genes from existing literature on epigenetic changes associated with parity in wwMS. Differentially methylated genes in whole blood were enriched in neuronal structure and growth-related pathways. Immune cell-type-specific analysis using cell-type proportion estimates from statistical deconvolution of whole blood revealed further differential methylation in T cells specifically (four in CD4+ and eight in CD8+ T cells). We further identified reduced methylation age acceleration in parous women, demonstrating slower biological aging compared to nulligravida women.CONCLUSION: Differential methylation at genes related to neural plasticity offers a potential molecular mechanism driving the long-term effect of pregnancy on MS outcomes. Our results point to a potential 'CNS signature' of methylation in peripheral immune cells, as previously described in relation to MS progression, induced by parity. As the first epigenome-wide association study of parity in wwMS reported, validation studies are needed to confirm our findings.
X-linked agammaglobulinemia or XLA is one of the most common pediatric primary immunodeficiencies that prevent affected individuals from making antibodies and requires lifelong immunoglobulin replacement therapy for survival. The molecular basis for XLA is a disruption in B cell development due to mutation in Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk). Affected individuals inherit a defect that prevents precursor B cells in the bone marrow from forming mature, circulating B-lymphocytes that would otherwise be capable of proliferating and differentiating into antibody-producing plasma cells in secondary lymphoid organs like the tonsils and lymph nodes. This dysfunction results in dangerously low, clinically undetectable levels of all immunoglobulin isotypes in the serum. Without immunoglobulins (or antibodies), XLA patients are rendered vulnerable to invasive infections from encapsulated bacteria (such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, and Haemophilus influenzae), have an increased incidence of enterovirus infections (e.g., poliovirus, coxsackievirus, echovirus), and chronic diarrhea (from Giardia lamblia). XLA patients commonly present with a history of recurrent upper respiratory tract infections, including sinusitis and otitis media, beginning after 6 to 9 months when most of the maternal antibodies have been exhausted.  However, hospitalization for bacterial pneumonia, requiring intravenous antibiotics for resolution, is usually what prompts the diagnostic work-up for immune deficiency disease. The average age of diagnosis is 2.5 years, and almost all cases of XLA get diagnosed before 5 years of age. Notably, late-onset forms of XLA also exist. There is currently no cure for XLA; however, early management with immunoglobulin replacement therapy and antibiotics to prevent and treat infections. Although this lifelong avenue is costly, it has been the mainstay of treatment for the past fifty years. Any significant delay in diagnosis poses the danger of developing chronic, treatment-resistant infections, and end-organ damage that cannot be corrected.
DiGeorge Syndrome (DGS) is a combination of signs and symptoms caused by defects in the development of structures derived from the pharyngeal arches during embryogenesis. Features of DGS were first described in 1828 but properly reported by Dr. Angelo DiGeorge in 1965, as a clinical trial that included immunodeficiency, hypoparathyroidism, and congenital heart disease. DGS is one of several syndromes that has historically grouped under a bigger umbrella called 22q11 deletion syndromes, which include Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome, velocardiofacial syndrome, Cayler cardiofacial syndrome, Sedlackova syndrome, conotruncal anomaly face syndrome, and DGS. Although the genetic etiology of these syndromes may be the same, varying phenotypes has supported the use of different nomenclature in the past, which has led to confusion in diagnosing patients with DGS, which causes potentially catastrophic delays in diagnosis. Current literature supports the use of the names of these syndromes interchangeably. Features of DGS include an absent or hypoplastic thymus, cardiac abnormalities, hypocalcemia, and parathyroid hypoplasia (See "History and Physical" below). Perhaps, the most concerning characteristic of DGS is the lack of thymic tissue, because this is the organ responsible for T lymphocyte development. A complete absence of the thymus, though very rare and affecting less than 1% of patients with DGS, is associated with a form of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). T-cells are a differentiated type of white blood cell specializing in certain immune functions: destroying cells that are infected or malignant, existing as an integral part of the innate immune system by killing viruses (e.g., Killer T-cells), helping B-cells mature to produce immunoglobulins for stronger adaptive immunity (e.g. helper T-cells), etc. The degree of immunodeficiency of patients with DGS can present differently depending on the extent of thymic hypoplasia. Some patients may have a mild to moderate immune deficiency, and the majority of patients have cardiac anomalies. Other features include palatal, renal, ocular, and gastrointestinal anomalies. Skeletal defects, psychiatric disease, and developmental delay are also of concern. There are different opinions about syndrome-related alterations in cognitive development, and a cognitive decline rather than an early onset intellectual disability is observable. The particularities of the clinical presentation requires observation on an individual basis, with careful evaluation and interprofessional treatment throughout the patient's life.
Treatment with oncolytic measles vaccines (MV) elicits activation of immune cells, including natural killer (NK) cells. However, we found that MV-activated NK cells show only modest direct cytotoxic activity against tumor cells. To specifically direct NK cells towards tumor cells, we developed oncolytic measles vaccines encoding bispecific killer engagers (MV-BiKE) targeting CD16A on NK cells and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) as a model tumor antigen. MV-BiKE are only slightly attenuated compared to parental MV and mediate secretion of functional BiKE from infected tumor cells. We tested MV-BiKE activity in cocultures of colorectal or pancreatic cancer cells with primary human NK cells. MV-BiKE mediate expression of effector cytokines, degranulation and specific anti-tumor cytotoxicity by NK cells. Experiments with patient-derived pancreatic cancer cultures indicate that efficacy of MV-BiKE may vary between individual tumors with differential virus permissiveness. Remarkably, we confirmed MV-BiKE activity in primaryhuman colorectal carcinoma specimens with autochthonous tumor and NK cells.This study provides proof-of-concept for MV-BiKE as a novel immunovirotherapy to harness virus-activated NK cells as anti-tumor effectors.
B cells are fundamental to host defence against infectious diseases; indeed, the ability of humans to elicit robust antibody responses following exposure to foreign antigens underpins long-lived humoral immunity and serological memory, as well as the success of most currently administered vaccines. However, B cells also have a dark side - they can cause myriad diseases, including autoimmunity, atopy, allergy and malignancy. Thus, it is critical to understand the molecular requirements for generating effective, high-affinity, specific immune responses following natural infection or vaccination, as well as for constraining B-cell function to mitigate B-cell-mediated immune dyscrasias. In this review, we discuss recent developments that have been derived from the identification and detailed analysis of individuals with inborn errors of immunity that disrupt cytokine signalling, resulting in immune dysregulatory conditions. These studies have defined fundamental cytokine/cytokine receptor/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signalling pathways that are critical for the generation and maintenance of human memory B-cell and plasma cell subsets during host defence, as well as revealed mechanisms of disease pathogenesis causing immune deficiency, autoimmunity and atopy. More importantly, these studies have identified molecules that could be targeted to either enhance humoral immunity in the settings of infection or vaccination, or attenuate humoral immunity that contributes to antibody-mediated autoimmunity or allergy.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) accounts for the vast majority of cases of leukemia. Patients of advanced age are more likely to develop the condition, which has a highly varied clinical course. Consideration of illness features and preceding treatment sequence, as well as patient preferences and comorbidities, is necessary for selecting the appropriate treatment for the appropriate patient. Therefore, there is an urgent need for novel biomarkers with high sensitivity and specificity to detect CLL early, monitor CLL patients, select the treatment responders, and reduce ineffective treatment, unwanted side effects, and unnecessary expenses. In both homeostasis and illness, microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) play a vital role as master regulators of gene expression and, by extension, protein expression. MiRNAs typically reduce the stability of mRNAs, including those encoding genes involved in tumorigenesis processes as cell cycle regulation, inflammation, stress response, angiogenesis, differentiation, apoptosis, and invasion. Due to their unique properties, miRNAs are rapidly being exploited as accurate biomarkers for illness detection, and medicines based on miRNA targets are finding widespread application in clinical practice. Accordingly, the current review serves as a quick primer on CLL and the biogenesis of miRNAs. In addition to providing a brief overview of the miRNAs whose function in the progression of CLL has been established by recent in vitro or in vivo research through articulating the influence of these miRNAs on a wide variety of cellular functions, including increased proliferative potential; support for angiogenesis; cell cycle aberration; evasion of apoptosis; promotion of metastasis; and reduced sensitivity to specific treatments.
IL-21 is essential for type 1 diabetes (T1D) development in the NOD mouse model. IL-21-expressing CD4 T cells are present in pancreatic islets where they contribute to T1D progression. However, little is known about their phenotype and differentiation states. To fill this gap, we generated, to our knowledge, a novel IL-21 reporter NOD strain to further characterize IL-21+ CD4 T cells in T1D. IL-21+ CD4 T cells accumulate in pancreatic islets and recognize β cell Ags. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that CD4 T effector cells in islets actively express IL-21 and they are highly diabetogenic despite expressing multiple inhibitory molecules, including PD-1 and LAG3. Islet IL-21+ CD4 T cells segregate into four phenotypically and transcriptionally distinct differentiation states, that is, less differentiated early effectors, T follicular helper (Tfh)-like cells, and two Th1 subsets. Trajectory analysis predicts that early effectors differentiate into both Tfh-like and terminal Th1 cells. We further demonstrated that intrinsic IL-27 signaling controls the differentiation of islet IL-21+ CD4 T cells, contributing to their helper function. Collectively, our study reveals the heterogeneity of islet-infiltrating IL-21+ CD4 T cells and indicates that both Tfh-like and Th1 subsets produce IL-21 throughout their differentiation process, highlighting the important sources of IL-21 in T1D pathogenesis.
B lymphocytes can engage in either a rapid T cell-independent pathway (TI) or a delayed long-lasting T cell-independent (TD) response through highly ordered transcriptional programs, yet the detailed underlying mechanisms are unclear. Since DNA methylation plays a key role in controlling gene expression and lineage specification, we explored the dynamics of whole-genome cytosine modifications during the ex vivo response of human B cells isolated from normal individuals by negative selection. We found that B cell differentiation following TI and TD signalling is accompanied by extensive remodelling of the epigenome, including global gain and loss of DNA methylation. The epigenetic changes map to different regions of the B cell genome, including non- C-phosphate-G CpG islands, indicating that modifications of distal regulatory elements likely regulate specific gene transcription in B cells. Non-CpG methylation also occurs in differentiating human B cells, suggesting that this DNA modification is involved in transcriptional regulation of B cell genes with promoters exhibiting a low-density methylation, possibly by changing the chromatin shape that could have an impact on gene expression. Most strikingly, compared to TD activation, stimulation of B cells through an innate pathway induced higher levels of DNA methylation modifications at CpG, CHG and CGG contexts, supporting the view that DNA methylation modifications are used in distinct trajectories to specify the TI and TD B lymphocyte responses.
Background: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a well-differentiated disease, which makes the diagnosis and therapeutic strategy a difficult problem. While ferroptosis, as an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, it plays an important role in causing several types of cancer. This study is aimed at exploring the prognostic value of ferroptosis-related genes in DLBCL. Methods: In our study, mRNA expression and matching clinical data of DLBCL patients were derived from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. First, multivariate cox regression model and nomogram which can predict the DLBCL patients' prognosis were built and validated. The multigene signature was constructed and optimized by the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) cox regression model. Also, ferroptosis-related subtypes were developed by consistent cluster. Last but not least, we explored the association between categories of infiltrating immune cells and model genes' expression. Results: Our results showed that 27 gene expressions were correlated with overall survival (OS) in the univariate cox regression analysis. A 4-gene signature was constructed through these genes to stratify patients into high-low risk groups using risk score derived from model (model 1:gene expression model). The OS of patients in the high-risk group was shorter than that of patients in the low-risk group in the TNM stage and clinically distinct subtypes (activated B cell [ABC], germinal center B cell [GCB]) (P < .001). Furthermore, it was shown that the risk score was an independent factor in clinical cox regression model for OS (model 2:clinical model) (HR>1, P < .010). Besides, in consistent cluster analysis, ferroptosis prognosis status was different among 3 subtypes. Moreover, the correlation analysis between 4-gene with immune cells showed dendritic cells may be significantly associated with DLBCL. Conclusion: This research constructed an innovative ferroptosis-related gene signature for prognostic estimation of DLBCL patients. Solutions targeting ferroptosis could be an important therapeutic intervention for DLBCL.
G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) regulate 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels in T cells. cAMP as ubiquitous second messenger is crucial for adequate physiology of T cells by mediating effector T cell (Teff) function as well as regulatory T cell (Treg)-mediated immunosuppression. Several GPCRs have been identified to be crucial for Teff and Treg function. However, the role of the orphan, constitutively active Gs-coupled GPCR GPR52 is unknown. Here we show that GPR52 regulates cAMP levels in T cells but does not affect T cell function. We found that stimulation of transfected HEK cells or primary T cells with a GPR52 agonist results in a rise of intracellular cAMP. However, neither Gpr52 deficiency nor pharmacological modulation of GPR52 by antagonists or agonists affected T cell activation, differentiation, and proliferation or Treg-mediated immunosuppression. Moreover, Gpr52 deletion did not modify the clinical disease course of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Our results demonstrate that a modulation of cAMP levels in T cells does not inevitably result in altered T cell function. While we could not identify an obvious role of GPR52 in in vitro T cell assays and in vivo CNS autoimmunity, it might regulate T cell function in a different context or affect the function of other GPR52-expressing cells.
BACKGROUND: The aim of the current study was to investigate the clinical value of cellular analysis and metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) in differentiating pulmonary non-infectious and infectious diseases in immunocompetent patients.METHODS: The present retrospective study was conducted from December 2017 to March 2020, and included immunocompetent patients with suspected pulmonary infection. High-resolution computed tomography, total cell counts and classification of BALF, conventional microbiological tests (CMTs), laboratory tests and mNGS of BALF were performed. Patients were assigned to pulmonary non-infectious disease (PNID) and pulmonary infectious disease (PID) groups based on final diagnoses. PNID-predictive values were analyzed via areas under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUCs). Optimal cutoffs were determined by maximizing the sum of sensitivity and specificity.RESULTS: A total of 102 patients suspected of pulmonary infection were enrolled in the study, 23 (22.5%) with PNID and 79 (77.5%) with PID. The diagnostic efficiency of BALF mNGS for differentiating PID from PNID was better than that of CMTs. Neutrophil percentage (N%) and the ratio of neutrophils to lymphocytes (N/L) in BALF were significantly lower in the PNID group than in the PID group. The AUCs for distinguishing PNID and PID were 0.739 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.636-0.825) for BALF N%, 0.727 (95% CI 0.624-0.815) for BALF N/L, and 0.799 (95% CI 0.702-0.876) for BALF mNGS, with respective cutoff values of 6.7%, 0.255, and negative. Joint models of BALF mNGS combined with BALF N/L or BALF N% increased the respective AUCs to 0.872 (95% CI 0.786-0.933) and 0.871 (95% CI 0.784-0.932), which were significantly higher than those for BALF mNGS, BALF N%, and BALF N/L alone.CONCLUSIONS: BALF N% ≤ 6.7% or BALF N/L ≤ 0.255 combined with a negative BALF mNGS result can effectively distinguish PNID from PID in immunocompetent patients with suspected pulmonary infection. BALF mNGS outperforms CMTs for identifying pathogens in immunocompetent patients, and the combination of mNGS and CMTs may be a better diagnostic strategy.
Childhood is a critical period of immune development. During this time, naïve CD4 (nCD4) T cells undergo programmed cell differentiation, mediated by epigenetic changes, in response to external stimuli leading to a baseline homeostatic state that may determine lifelong disease risk. However, the ontogeny of epigenetic signatures associated with CD4 T cell activation during key developmental periods are yet to be described. We investigated genome-wide DNA methylation (DNAm) changes associated with nCD4 T activation following 72 h culture in media+anti-CD3/CD28 beads in healthy infants (aged 12 months, n = 18) and adolescents (aged 10-15 years, n = 15). We integrated these data with transcriptomic and cytokine profiling from the same samples. nCD4 T cells from both age groups show similar extensive epigenetic reprogramming following activation, with the majority of genes involved in the T cell receptor signaling pathway associated with differential methylation. Additionally, we identified differentially methylated probes showing age-specific responses, that is, responses in only infants or adolescents, including within a cluster of T cell receptor (TCR) genes. These encoded several TCR alpha joining (TRAJ), and TCR alpha variable (TRAV) genes. Cytokine data analysis following stimulation revealed enhanced release of IFN-γ, IL-2 and IL-10, in nCD4 T cells from adolescents compared with infants. Overlapping differential methylation and cytokine responses identified four probes potentially underpinning these age-specific responses. We show that DNAm in nCD4T cells in response to activation is dynamic in infancy and adolescence, with additional evidence for age-specific effects potentially driving variation in cytokine responses between these ages.
BACKGROUND: The mortality rate of ovarian cancer ranks first among three common gynecological malignant tumors due to insidious onset and lack of effective early diagnosis methods. Borderline epithelial ovarian tumor (BEOT) is a type of low malignant potential tumor that is typically associated with better outcomes than ovarian cancer. However, BEOTs are easily confused with benign and malignant epithelial ovarian tumors (EOTs) due to similar clinical symptoms and lack of specific tumor biomarkers and imaging examinations. Notably, a small subset of BEOTs will transform into low-grade serous ovarian carcinoma with a poor prognosis. Therefore, searching for potential biomarkers that can be easily obtained and accurately identify malignant epithelial ovarian tumors (MEOTs) as well as BEOTs is essential for the clinician. Cancer antigen 125 (CA125) is a commonly used biomarker for the diagnosis of EOTs in the preoperative scenario but has low sensitivity and specificity. Nowadays, inflammatory biomarkers including inflammatory cell counts and derived ratios such as neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and platelet/lymphocyte ratio (PLR) have been proved to be associated with tumor progression and poor prognosis, and were considered to be the most economically potential surrogate biomarkers for various malignancies. The purpose of this study was to find appropriate combinations of inflammatory and tumor biomarkers to improve the diagnostic efficiency of EOTs, especially the BEOTs.RESULTS: CA125, NLR and PLR increased steadily among benign, borderline and malignant EOTs and tended to be higher in advanced (stage III-IV) and lymph node metastasis MEOT groups than in early stage (stage I-II) and non-lymph node metastasis MEOT groups. CA125, NLR and PLR could be used separately in the differentiation of EOTs but could not take into account both sensitivity and specificity. The combined use of CA125, NLR and PLR was evaluated to be more efficient, especially in the identification of BEOTs, with both high sensitivity and high specificity.CONCLUSIONS: The levels of CA125, NLR and PLR were closely related to the nature of EOTs and malignant progression of MEOTs. The combination of CA125, NLR and PLR was more accurate in identifying the nature of EOTs than either alone or double combination, especially for BEOTs.
Ovarian cancer (OC) is one of the deadliest malignant tumors affecting women worldwide. The predictive value of some blood inflammatory composite markers in OC has been extensively reported. They can be used for early detection and differential diagnosis of OC and can be used for predicting survival, treatment response, and recurrence in the affected patients. Here, we reviewed the predictive values of composite inflammatory markers based on complete blood count, namely neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR), monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratio, and systemic inflammation index and markers based on blood protein, namely C-reactive protein-to-albumin ratio and prognostic nutritional index in OC, with a focus on NLR and PLR. We referred to the clinical studies on these six markers, reviewed the patient population, and summarized the marker cut-off values, significance, and limitations of these studies. All these studies were retrospective and most of them were single-center clinical studies with small sample sizes. We found that the cut-off values of these markers have not been unified, and methods used to determine these values varied among studies. The predictive value of these markers on survival was mainly reflected in the postoperative patients of multiple subtypes of ovarian cancer including epithelial OC, high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma, and ovarian clear cell carcinoma. We focused on NLR and PLR and calculated their pooled hazard ratios. NLR and PLR were reliable in predicting overall and progression-free survivals in patients with OC. Therefore, it is necessary to adjust important confounding factors and conduct a long-term follow-up prospective cohort study to further clarify the cut-off values of NLR and PLR and their clinical applications.
The T cell repertoire of healthy mice and humans harbors self-reactive CD4+ conventional T (Tconv) cells capable of inducing autoimmunity. Using T cell receptor profiling paired with in vivo clonal analysis of T cell differentiation, we identified Tconv cell clones that are recurrently enriched in non-lymphoid organs following ablation of Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) cells. A subset of these clones was highly proliferative in the lymphoid organs at steady state and exhibited overt reactivity to self-ligands displayed by dendritic cells, yet were not purged by clonal deletion. These clones spontaneously adopted numerous hallmarks of follicular helper T (TFH) cells, including expression of Bcl6 and PD-1, exhibited an elevated propensity to localize within B cell follicles at steady state, and produced interferon-γ in non-lymphoid organs following sustained Treg cell depletion. Our work identifies a naturally occurring population of self-reactive TFH-like cells and delineates a previously unappreciated fate for self-specific Tconv cells.
OBJECTIVES: The X-chromosome contains the largest number of immune-related genes, which play a major role in COVID-19 symptomatology and susceptibility. Here, we had a unique opportunity to investigate, for the first time, COVID-19 outcomes in six unvaccinated young Brazilian patients with Turner syndrome (TS; 45, X0), including one case of critical illness in a child aged 10 years, to evaluate their immune response according to their genetic profile.METHODS: A serological analysis of humoral immune response against SARS-CoV-2, phenotypic characterization of antiviral responses in peripheral blood mononuclear cells after stimuli, and the production of cytotoxic cytokines of T lymphocytes and natural killer cells were performed in blood samples collected from the patients with TS during the convalescence period. Whole exome sequencing was also performed.RESULTS: Our volunteers with TS showed a delayed or insufficient humoral immune response to SARS-CoV-2 (particularly immunoglobulin G) and a decrease in interferon-γ production by cluster of differentiation (CD)4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes after stimulation with toll-like receptors 7/8 agonists. In contrast, we observed a higher cytotoxic activity in the volunteers with TS than the volunteers without TS after phorbol myristate acetate/ionomycin stimulation, particularly granzyme B and perforin by CD8+ and natural killer cells. Interestingly, two volunteers with TS carry rare genetic variants in genes that regulate type I and III interferon immunity.CONCLUSION: Following previous reports in the literature for other conditions, our data showed that patients with TS may have an impaired immune response against SARS-CoV-2. Furthermore, other medical conditions associated with TS could make them more vulnerable to COVID-19.
BACKGROUND: The thymus is a lymphoid organ responsible for the development and maturation of T cells, which are part of the Th1, Th2, Th17, and Treg immune responses triggered by visceral leishmaniasis. The maturation and immunological development of T lymphocytes require a bidirectional interaction between the thymic microenvironment of epithelial cells, dendritic cells, and macrophages and the extracellular matrix with differentiating lymphocytes.OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the morphological characteristics and tissue distribution of hematopoietic and stromal cells in the thymuses of hamsters experimentally infected with Leishmania infantum, aiming to gain an insight into the pathophysiology of the disease.METHODS: Fifteen hamsters were subjected to intraperitoneal experimental infection with 107L. infantum promastigotes (MHOM/BR/1972/BH46). The animals were divided into three groups, each comprising five infected hamsters, and were then euthanized 15, 60, and 120 days postinfection. The control groups consisted of three groups of five healthy hamsters euthanized simultaneously with the infected ones. Thymic morphology was evaluated through histopathology and the cell composition through immunohistochemistry. We used antibodies to mark mesenchymal cells (anti-vimentin), epithelial cells (anti-cytokeratin), macrophages (anti-MAC387), B lymphocytes (anti-CD79a), and T lymphocytes (anti-CD3). Immunohistochemistry was also used to mark the parasite in the thymus.RESULTS: Infected and control hamsters showed no difference in thymic morphology and degree of atrophy. After 15 days of infection, CD3 + T lymphocytes in the thymus showed an increase that stabilized over time. At 120 days of infection, we detected a significant decrease in CD79a+ B lymphocytes. The parasite was present in the medullary and corticomedullary regions of 9 out of 15 hamsters. These findings confirm that the presence of a parasite can cause changes in a thymus cell population. However, further studies are needed to evaluate these changes' effects on the immune response of infected animals.
BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes pneumonia and lymphopenia. We investigated the predictive value of T-lymphocyte subset absolute counts for outcomes following coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19)-associated acute respiratory failure (C-ARF).PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective chart review of adult patients with C-ARF was undertaken from 23 March 2020 to 20 November 2021 to obtain relevant data. Patients were divided into two groups based on survival. The T-lymphocyte subsets were determined by flow cytometric analysis. A binomial logistic regression was performed to ascertain factors affecting survival. Cut-off values to differentiate between survivors and non-survivors were identified with the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis.RESULTS: A total of 379 patients were analyzed. Age was negatively correlated with survival. Non-survivors had significantly lower T-lymphocyte subset absolute counts than survivors. Serum ferritin levels were significantly higher in non-survivors. Baseline lymphocyte (%) and a subset were predictive of survival in patients [lymphocyte (%) <5.65%, CD3+ <321 cells/µL, CD4+ <205 cells/µL, CD8+ <103 cells/µL].CONCLUSIONS: Lower T-lymphocyte subsets were associated with higher mortality in patients with C-ARF. Monitoring trends may help in identifying patients at increased risk of poor outcomes.HOW TO CITE THIS ARTICLE: Vadi S, Pednekar A, Suthar D, Sanwalka N, Rabade N, Ghodke K. Association of Mortality with Lymphocyte Subset in Patients with COVID-19-associated Acute Respiratory Failure: A Subgroup Analysis. Indian J Crit Care Med 2023;27(1):52-56.
BACKGROUND: Numerous studies have shown autophagy affects cellular immune responses. This study aims to explore prognosis and immunotherapeutic biomarkers related to autophagy in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD).METHODS: Based on R software, we performed the ssGSEA, differential expression analysis, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, correlation analysis, and enrichment analysis. For wet experiment, we did qRT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and CCK-8 experiments.RESULTS: Using autophagy-related genes (ARGs) and the ssGSEA, COAD patients were divided into low and high autophagy groups. For immune score, stromal score, tumor purity, tumor infiltrating immune cells, co-signaling molecules, tumor mutational burden, microsatellite instability, mismatch repair, immune-related pathways, immune signatures, somatic mutations and subtype analysis, high autophagy group might benefit more from immunotherapy. Among 232 ARGs, IFNG was generally significantly correlated with tumor immunotherapy biomarkers (PD-L1, CD8A and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL)). The disease-free survival of high IFNG group was significantly longer than that of low group. On above-mentioned immune-related research, the high IFNG group reached the same conclusion. The qRT-PCR and IHC analysis confirmed that IFNG was significantly higher expressed in dMMR samples compared to pMMR samples. For chemotherapy, the autophagy and IFNG were significantly negatively related to the chemosensitivity to cisplatin; IFNG inhibitor glucosamine increased cisplatin chemoresistance while IFNG increased cisplatin chemosensitivity; IFNG could reverse glucosamine induced chemoresistance. The functional enrichment analysis of IFNG, PD-L1, CD8A and 20 similar proteins were related to the activation of the immune system. The GSEA and ceRNA network partly described interaction mechanisms of IFNG with PD-L1 and CD8A.CONCLUSION: Autophagy score and IFNG expression were novel immunotherapy predictive biomarkers, which might play predictive effects through the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. IFNG might be a potential targeted therapy for cisplatin resistant colon cancer. Besides, IFNG was also a prognostic indicator.
Formation of long-lasting memory lymphocytes is one of the foundational characteristics of adaptive immunity and the basis of many vaccination strategies. Following the rapid expansion and contraction of effector CD8 T cells, the surviving antigen (Ag)-specific cells give rise to the memory CD8 T cells that persist for a long time and are phenotypically and functionally distinct from their naïve counterparts. Significant heterogeneity exists within the memory CD8 T cell pool, as different subsets display distinct tissue localization preferences, cytotoxic ability, and proliferative capacity, but all memory CD8 T cells are equipped to mount an enhanced immune response upon Ag re-encounter. Memory CD8 T cells demonstrate numerical stability under homeostatic conditions, but sepsis causes a significant decline in the number of memory CD8 T cells and diminishes their Ag-dependent and -independent functions. Sepsis also rewires the transcriptional profile of memory CD8 T cells, which profoundly impacts memory CD8 T cell differentiation and, ultimately, the protective capacity of memory CD8 T cells upon subsequent stimulation. This review delves into different aspects of memory CD8 T cell subsets as well as the immediate and long-term impact of sepsis on memory CD8 T cell biology.
The discovery of tissue-resident memory T cells (TRM cells) reinterpreted the potential of human tissue-specific immunity. Following T cell receptor (TCR) activation and clonal expansion, effector T cells migrate to peripheral tissues where they remain long-term and differentiate to TRM cells after antigen clearance. This allows for prompt immunological responses upon antigen re-encounter. In addition to their protective properties in acute infections, recent studies have revealed that TRM cells might lead to aggravation of autoimmune diseases, such as lupus nephritis (LN) and anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated glomerulonephritis (GN). These diseases present as proliferative and crescentic glomerulonephritis (cGN), which is a life-threatening condition leading to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) if left untreated. A better understanding of renal TRM cells might lead to identifying new therapeutic targets for relapsing autoimmune diseases of the kidney. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge of renal TRM cells and discuss their potential pathophysiological roles in renal autoimmune diseases.
B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders are characterized by the accumulation of mature B lymphocytes in the bone marrow, lymphoid tissues, and/or peripheral blood. They can cause amyloid deposits in the lungs. In rare cases, lung nodules can be the first sign of this disorder. We present the case of an 89-year-old woman with stable shortness of breath and lung nodules on imaging. A positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) scan showed the most intense hypermetabolic nodule in the patient's lung, which was 1.5 × 1.4 cm. A biopsy of this nodule showed amyloid material with trapped plasma cell infiltrate on microscopy. Congo red stain under polarizing microscopy showed apple-green birefringence, which is diagnostic for amyloidosis. Immunohistochemistry showed a mixture of kappa-positive and lambda-positive cells. B-cell gene rearrangement-clonal gene rearrangements were detected in the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) gene and the kappa light chain (IGK). These findings suggest a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder, such as a plasmacytoma or a marginal cell lymphoma with plasma cell differentiation. The patient was diagnosed with a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder and pulmonary amyloidosis. Isolated amyloidosis in the lungs usually has a good prognosis, but it can be a sign of autoimmune diseases or B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders, as in this case. Early diagnosis of B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder can lead to successful treatment and prevents complications.
Background: Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) is not sensitive to radiotherapy and chemotherapy, and only some KIRC patients can benefit from immunotherapy and targeted therapy. Cuproptosis is a new mechanism of cell death, which is closely related to tumor progression, prognosis and immunity. The identification of prognostic markers related to cuproptosis in KIRC may provide targets for treatment and improve the prognosis of KIRC patients. Methods: Ten cuproptosis-related genes were analyzed for differential expression in KIRC-TCGA and a prognostic model was constructed. Nomogram diagnostic model was used to screen independent prognostic molecules. The screened molecules were verified in multiple datasets (GSE36895 and GSE53757), and in KIRC tumor tissues by RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Clinical correlation of cuproptosis-related independent prognostic molecules was analyzed. According to the molecular expression, the two groups were divided into high and low expression groups, and the differences of immune checkpoint and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) between the two groups were compared by EPIC algorithm. The potential Immune checkpoint blocking (ICB) response of high and low expression groups was predicted by the "TIDE" algorithm. Results: FDX1 and DLAT were protective factors, while CDKN2A was a risk factor. FDX1 was an independent prognostic molecule by Nomogram, and low expressed in tumor tissues compared with adjacent tissues (p < 0.05). FDX1 was positively correlated with CD274, HAVCR2, PDCD1LG2, and negatively correlated with CTLA4, LAG3, and PDCD1. The TIDE score of low-FDX1 group was higher than that of high-FDX1 group. The abundance of CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells and Endothelial cells in FDX1-low group was lower than that in FDX1-high group (p < 0.05). Conclusion: FDX1, as a key cuproptosis-related gene, was also an independent prognostic molecule of KIRC. FDX1 might become an interesting biomarker and potential therapeutic target for KIRC.
Further advances in cell engineering are needed to increase the efficacy of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) and other T cell-based therapies1-5. As T cell differentiation and functional states are associated with distinct epigenetic profiles6,7, we hypothesized that epigenetic programming may provide a means to improve CAR T cell performance. Targeting the gene that encodes the epigenetic regulator ten-eleven translocation 2 (TET2)8 presents an interesting opportunity as its loss may enhance T cell memory9,10, albeit not cause malignancy9,11,12. Here we show that disruption of TET2 enhances T cell-mediated tumour rejection in leukaemia and prostate cancer models. However, loss of TET2 also enables antigen-independent CAR T cell clonal expansions that may eventually result in prominent systemic tissue infiltration. These clonal proliferations require biallelic TET2 disruption and sustained expression of the AP-1 factor BATF3 to drive a MYC-dependent proliferative program. This proliferative state is associated with reduced effector function that differs from both canonical T cell memory13,14 and exhaustion15,16 states, and is prone to the acquisition of secondary somatic mutations, establishing TET2 as a guardian against BATF3-induced CAR T cell proliferation and ensuing genomic instability. Our findings illustrate the potential of epigenetic programming to enhance T cell immunity but highlight the risk of unleashing unchecked proliferative responses.
BACKGROUND: Tumour-derived small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) play a crucial role in cancer immunomodulation. In addition to tumour immune microenvironment, the peripheral immune system also contributes significantly to cancer progression and is essential for anticancer immunity. However, a comprehensive definition of which and how peripheral immune lineages are regulated by tumour-derived sEVs during cancer development remains incomplete.METHODS: In this study, we used mass cytometry with extensive antibody panels to comprehensively construct the systemic immune landscape in response to tumour development and tumour-derived sEVs.RESULTS: Systemic immunity was dramatically altered by tumour growth and tumour-derived sEVs. Tumour-derived sEVs significantly and extensively affected immune cell population composition as well as intracellular pathways, resulting in an immunosuppressive peripheral and tumour immune microenvironment, characterised by increased myeloid-derived suppressor cells and decreased Ly6C+CD8 T cells. These sEVs largely promoted hematopoietic recovery and accelerate the differentiation towards myeloid-derived suppressor cells. The knockdown of Rab27a reduced sEV secretion from tumour cells and delayed tumour growth and metastasis in vivo.CONCLUSIONS: These results highlight that tumour-derived sEVs function as a bridge between peripheral immunity regulation and the tumour microenvironment, and contribute to cancer progression through altering the composition and function of the global immune macroenvironment.
In addition to malignancies, survivin (a member of the apoptosis inhibitor family) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory disorders, including autoimmune and allergic diseases. Survivin is constantly expressed in the proliferating hematopoietic progenitor cells, and it is re-expressed in the mature cells of the innate and adaptive immunity, upon activation. Survivin enhances the expression of co-stimulatory molecules and MHC class II molecules in dendritic cells, and promotes the lifespan of macrophages, neutrophils, and eosinophils, while suppressing natural killer (NK) cell activity. Survivin has been implicated in T cell maturation, T cell expansion, effector CD4+ T cell differentiation, maintenance of memory CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells, as well as antibody production. Upregulated expression of survivin was indicated in the T cells as well as various samples collected from allergic patients. Survivin can contribute to the pathogenesis of allergic diseases via the promotion of the Th2 polarization, promoting IL-4 expression, compromising activation-induced cell death (AICD) in Th2 cells, and preventing apoptosis of eosinophils, as well as, amplification of eosinophilia. Moreover, survivin can interfere with clonal deletion of autoreactive T and B cells, as well as suppress Treg cell development and activity supporting the development of autoimmune diseases. This review discusses the role of survivin in immunity, allergy and autoimmunity as well as provides evidence that survivin may be considered as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of allergic and autoimmune diseases.
ICOS is a T-cell costimulatory receptor critical for Tfh cell generation and function. However, the role of ICOS in Tfr cell differentiation remains unclear. Using Foxp3-Cre-mediated ICOS knockout (ICOS FC) mice, we show that ICOS deficiency in Treg-lineage cells drastically reduces the number of Tfr cells during GC reactions but has a minimal impact on conventional Treg cells. Single-cell transcriptome analysis of Foxp3+ cells at an early stage of the GC reaction suggests that ICOS normally inhibits Klf2 expression to promote follicular features including Bcl6 up-regulation. Furthermore, ICOS costimulation promotes nuclear localization of NFAT2, a known driver of CXCR5 expression. Notably, ICOS FC mice had an unaltered overall GC B-cell output but showed signs of expanded autoreactive B cells along with elevated autoantibody titers. Thus, our study demonstrates that ICOS costimulation is critical for Tfr cell differentiation and highlights the importance of Tfr cells in maintaining humoral immune tolerance during GC reactions.
Uveitis is an immune eye disease that can seriously impair vision. Glucocorticoids (GCS) have been extensively used to treat uveitis, though the mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we investigated the regulatory effects of prednisone acetate (PA) on the Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg balance in experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) through modulating the Notch signaling pathway. Briefly, Lewis rats were randomly divided into the normal control (NC), EAU, and EAU + PA groups. Rats in EAU and EAU + PA groups were induced EAU, while those in the EAU + PA group were treated with PA. Clinical and histopathological scores were employed to assess the progression of EAU. The expression levels of Notch signaling-related molecules (Notch1, Notch2, Dll3, Dll4, and Rbpj) and Th-associated cytokines (IFN-γ, IL-4, IL-10, and IL-17) were assessed via quantitative PCR (qPCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In addition, the frequencies of Th1, Th2, Th17 and Treg cells were detected by flow cytometry. These experimental results indicated that activation of the Notch signaling pathway occurred in EAU rats and resulted in a severe imbalance of the Th17/Treg and Th1/Th2 ratios. PA treatment significantly alleviated ocular inflammation, inhibited activation of the Notch signaling pathway, and declined Th1, and Th17 cell differentiation, thereby restoring the Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg balance. Collectively, PA can positively enhance the systemic immune response and improve the intraocular microenvironmental homeostasis by inhibiting activation of the Notch signaling pathway and by restoring Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg balance, thus achieving the goal of treating uveitis.
Interleukin-1 receptor family members (ILRs) and Toll-Like Receptors (TLRs) play pivotal role in immunity and inflammation and are expressed by most cell types including cells of both the innate and adaptive immune system. In this context, IL-1 superfamily members are also important players in regulating function and differentiation of adaptive and innate lymphoid cells. This system is tightly regulated in order to avoid uncontrolled activation, which may lead to detrimental inflammation contributing to autoimmune or allergic responses. IL-1R8 (also known as TIR8 or SIGIRR) is a member of the IL-1R family that acts as a negative regulator dampening ILR and TLR signaling and as a co-receptor for human IL-37. Human and mouse NK cells, that are key players in immune surveillance of tumors and infections, express high level of IL-1R8. In this review, we will summarize our current understanding on the structure, expression and function of IL-1R8 and we will also discuss the emerging role of IL-1R8 as an important checkpoint regulating NK cells function in pathological conditions including cancer and viral infections.
Presence of EBV infected B cells and EBV-specific CD8 T cells in the multiple sclerosis (MS) brain suggests a role for virus-driven immunopathology in brain inflammation. Tissue-resident memory (Trm) T cells differentiating in MS lesions could provide local protection against EBV reactivation. Using immunohistochemical techniques to analyse canonical tissue residency markers in postmortem brains from control and MS cases, we report that CD103 and/or CD69 are mainly expressed in a subset of CD8+ T cells that intermingle with and contact EBV infected B cells in the infiltrated MS white matter and meninges, including B-cell follicles. Some Trm-like cells were found to express granzyme B and PD-1, mainly in white matter lesions. In the MS brain, Trm cells could fail to constrain EBV infection while contributing to sustain inflammation.
The myeloid C-type lectin receptor (CLR) MINCLE senses the mycobacterial cell wall component trehalose-6,6'-dimycolate (TDM). Recently, we found that IL-4 downregulates MINCLE expression in macrophages. IL-4 is a hallmark cytokine in helminth infections, which appear to increase the risk for mycobacterial infection and active tuberculosis. Here, we investigated functional consequences of IL-4 and helminth infection on MINCLE-driven macrophage activation and Th1/Th17 adjuvanticity. IL-4 inhibited MINCLE and cytokine induction after macrophage infection with Mycobacterium bovis bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG). Infection of mice with BCG upregulated MINCLE on myeloid cells, which was inhibited by IL-4 plasmid injection and by infection with the nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis in monocytes. To determine the impact of helminth infection on MINCLE-dependent immune responses, we vaccinated mice with a recombinant protein together with the MINCLE ligand trehalose-6,6-dibehenate (TDB) as adjuvant. Concurrent infection with N. brasiliensis or with Schistosoma mansoni promoted T cell-derived IL-4 production and suppressed Th1/Th17 differentiation in the spleen. In contrast, helminth infection did not reduce Th1/Th17 induction by TDB in draining peripheral lymph nodes, where IL-4 levels were unaltered. Upon use of the TLR4-dependent adjuvant G3D6A, N. brasiliensis infection impaired selectively the induction of splenic antigen-specific Th1 but not of Th17 cells. Inhibition of MINCLE-dependent Th1/Th17 responses in mice infected with N. brasiliensis was dependent on IL-4/IL-13. Thus, helminth infection attenuated the Th17 response to MINCLE-dependent immunization in an organ- and adjuvant-specific manner via the Th2 cytokines IL-4/IL-13. Taken together, our results demonstrate downregulation of MINCLE expression on monocytes and macrophages by IL-4 as a possible mechanism of thwarted Th17 vaccination responses by underlying helminth infection.
Differentiation of effector CD8+ T cells is instructed by stably and dynamically expressed transcription regulators. Here we show that naive-to-effector differentiation was accompanied by dynamic CTCF redistribution and extensive chromatin architectural changes. Upon CD8+ T cell activation, CTCF acquired de novo binding sites and anchored novel chromatin interactions, and these changes were associated with increased chromatin accessibility and elevated expression of cytotoxic program genes including Tbx21, Ifng, and Klrg1. CTCF was also evicted from its ex-binding sites in naive state, with concomitantly reduced chromatin interactions in effector cells, as observed at memory precursor-associated genes including Il7r, Sell, and Tcf7. Genetic ablation of CTCF indeed diminished cytotoxic gene expression, but paradoxically elevated expression of memory precursor genes. Comparative Hi-C analysis revealed that key memory precursor genes were harbored within insulated neighborhoods demarcated by constitutive CTCF binding, and their induction was likely due to disrupted CTCF-dependent insulation. CTCF thus promotes cytotoxic effector differentiation by integrating local chromatin accessibility control and higher-order genomic reorganization.
To better characterize the heterogeneity of multiple myeloma (MM), we profiled plasma cells (PCs) and their B cell lymphopoiesis in the BM samples from patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, smoldering MM, and active MM by mass cytometry (CyTOF) analysis. Characterization of intra- and interneoplastic heterogeneity of malignant plasmablasts and PCs revealed overexpression of the MM SET domain (MMSET), Notch-1, and CD47. Variations in upregulation of B cell signaling regulators (IFN regulatory factor 4 [IRF-4], CXCR4, B cell lymphoma 6 [Bcl-6], c-Myc, myeloid differentiation primary response protein 88 [MYD88], and spliced X box-binding protein 1 [sXBP-1]) and aberrant markers (CD319, CD269, CD200, CD117, CD56, and CD28) were associated with different clinical outcomes in clonal PC subsets. In addition, prognosis was related to heterogeneity in subclonal expression of stemness markers, including neuroepithelial stem cell protein (Nestin), SRY-box transcription factor 2 (Sox2), Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF-4), and Nanog. Furthermore, we have defined significantly elevated levels of MMSET, MYD88, c-Myc, CD243, Notch-1, and CD47 from hematopoietic stem cells to PCs in myeloma B cell lymphopoiesis, noted even in premalignant conditions, with variably modulated expression of B cell development regulators, including IRF-4, Bcl-2, Bcl-6, and sXBP-1; aberrant PC markers (such as CD52, CD44, CD200, CD81, CD269, CD117, and CXCR4); and stemness-controlling regulators, including Nanog, KLF-4, octamer-binding transcription factor 3/4 (Oct3/4), Sox2, and retinoic acid receptor α2 (RARα2). This study provides the rationale for precise molecular profiling of patients with MM by CyTOF technology to define disease heterogeneity and prognosis.
BACKGROUND: Regulatory T (Treg) cells are important immune cells that are regulated by adaptive immunity in the composition of Treg-cell subsets and T-cell receptors (TCRs). Treg cells are related to most autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), RA is typically attributed to kidney deficiency (KD) associated with the immunosenescence that causes immune dysfunction and the impaired function of Treg cells. So far, however, no mechanism related to KD and immune repertoires has been identified in RA.METHODS: Flow cytometry and high-throughput Treg-cell receptor sequencing were used to investigate the amount of different Treg-cell subsets and the diversity of TCRs between RA patients and healthy subjects, as well as between KD RA and non-KD RA patients. RT-qPCR was used to validate the high-throughput sequencing results.RESULTS: The data showed that the amount of naïve Treg cells in KD patients was less than in non-KD RA patients (P = 0.004) with no significant differences observed between other subsets. In the TCR of Treg cells, the length of complementarity determining region 3 (CDR3) was low and clonotypes increased in the KD group compared with the non-KD group. The diversity and abundance of Treg TCRs were low, as determined by the Hill number. In addition, several V(D)J combinations, such as T-cell receptor beta variable 7-2 (TRBV7-2), TRBV11-1, TRBV13, TRBV15, and TRBJ2-3, varied significantly between the two groups, indicating that KD causes Treg dysfunction. RT-qPCR shows that FOXP3 expression in peripheral blood Treg is lower in KD than in non-KD.CONCLUSION: The results demonstrate the close correlation between KD and immune repertoires in RA and provide a new evaluation method for RA in TCM.
BACKGROUND: Gadolinium enhancement of spinal nerve roots on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has rarely been reported in spinal dural arteriovenous fistula (SDAVF). Nerve root enhancement and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis can be deceptive and lead to a misdiagnosis of myeloradiculitis. We report a patient who was initially diagnosed with neurosarcoid myeloradiculitis due to spinal nerve root enhancement, mildly inflammatory cerebrospinal fluid, and pulmonary granulomas, who ultimately was found to have an extensive symptomatic SDAVF.CASE PRESENTATION: A 52-year-old woman presented with a longitudinally extensive spinal cord lesion with associated gadolinium enhancement of the cord and cauda equina nerve roots, and mild lymphocytic pleocytosis. Pulmonary lymph node biopsy revealed non-caseating granulomas and neurosarcoid myeloradiculitis was suspected. She had rapid and profound clinical deterioration after a single dose of steroids. Further work-up with spinal angiography revealed a thoracic SDAVF, which was surgically ligated leading to clinical improvement.CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights an unexpected presentation of SDAVF with nerve root enhancement and concurrent pulmonary non-caseating granulomas, leading to an initial misdiagnosis with neurosarcoidosis. Nerve root enhancement has only rarely been described in cases of SDAVF; however, as this case highlights, it is an important consideration in the differential diagnosis of non-inflammatory causes of longitudinally extensive myeloradiculopathy with nerve root enhancement. This point is highly salient due to the importance of avoiding misdiagnosis of SDAVF, as interventions such as steroids or epidural injections used to treat inflammatory or infiltrative mimics may worsen symptoms in SDAVF. We review the presentation, diagnosis, and management of SDAVF as well as a proposed diagnostic approach to differentiating SDAVF from inflammatory myeloradiculitis.
GPR56/ADGRG1 is an adhesion G protein-coupled receptor connected to brain development, haematopoiesis, male fertility, and tumorigenesis. Nevertheless, expression of GPR56 is not restricted to developmental processes. Studies over the last years have demonstrated a marked presence of GPR56 in human cytotoxic NK and T cells. Expression of GPR56 in these cells is driven by the transcription factor HOBIT, corresponds with the production of cytolytic mediators and the presence of CX3 CR1 and CD57, indicates a state of terminal differentiation and cellular exhaustion, and disappears upon cellular activation. Functional studies indicate that GPR56 regulates cell migration and effector functions and thereby acts as an inhibitory immune checkpoint. We here discuss the current state of knowledge regarding GPR56 in cytotoxic lymphocytes.
Transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) is a key cytokine regulating the development, activation, proliferation, differentiation, and death of T cells. In CD4+ T cells, TGF-β maintains the quiescence and controls the activation of naive T cells. While inhibiting the differentiation and function of Th1 and Th2 cells, TGF-β promotes the differentiation of Th17 and Th9 cells. TGF-β is required for the induction of Foxp3 in naive T cells and the development of regulatory T cells. TGF-β is crucial in the differentiation of tissue-resident memory CD8+ T cells and their retention in the tissue, whereas it suppresses effector T cell function. In addition, TGF-β also regulates the generation or function of natural killer T cells, γδ T cells, innate lymphoid cells, and gut intraepithelial lymphocytes. Here I highlight the major findings and recent advances in our understanding of TGF-β regulation of T cells and provide a personal perspective of the field.
BACKGROUND: Glioma-induced immune dysregulation of the hematopoietic system has been described in a limited number of studies. In this study, our group further demonstrates that gliomas interrupt the cellular differentiation programming and outcomes of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) in the bone marrow. HSPCs from glioma-bearing mice are reprogrammed and driven towards expansion of myeloid lineage precursors and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in secondary lymphoid organs. However, we found this expansion is reversed by immunotherapy. Adoptive cellular therapy (ACT) has been demonstrably efficacious in multiple preclinical models of central nervous system (CNS) malignancies, and here we describe how glioma-induced dysfunction is reversed by this immunotherapeutic platform.METHODS: The impact of orthotopic KR158B-luc glioma on HSPCs was evaluated in an unbiased fashion using single cell RNAseq (scRNAseq) of lineage- cells and phenotypically using flow cytometry. Mature myeloid cell frequencies and function were also evaluated using flow cytometry. Finally, ACT containing total body irradiation, tumor RNA-pulsed dendritic cells, tumor-reactive T cells and HSPCs isolated from glioma-bearing or non-tumor-bearing mice were used to evaluate cell fate differentiation and survival.RESULTS: Using scRNAseq, we observed an altered HSPC landscape in glioma-bearing versus non-tumor-bearing mice . In addition, an expansion of myeloid lineage subsets, including granulocyte macrophage precursors (GMPs) and MDSCs, were observed in glioma-bearing mice relative to non-tumor-bearing controls. Furthermore, MDSCs from glioma-bearing mice demonstrated increased suppressive capacity toward tumor-specific T cells as compared with MDSCs from non-tumor-bearing hosts. Interestingly, treatment with ACT overcame these suppressive properties. When HSPCs from glioma-bearing mice were transferred in the context of ACT, we observed significant survival benefit and long-term cures in orthotopic glioma models compared with mice treated with ACT using non-glioma-bearing HSPCs.
PURPOSE: Tumor antigens are central to antitumor immunity. Recent evidence suggests that peptides from non-canonical (nonC) aberrantly translated proteins can be presented on HLA-I by tumor cells. Here, we investigated the immunogenicity of nonC tumor HLA-I ligands (nonC-TL) to better understand their contribution to cancer immunosurveillance and their therapeutic applicability.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Peptides presented on HLA-I were identified from 9 patient-derived TCL with melanoma, gynecological, and head and neck cancer through proteogenomics. 507 candidate tumor antigens including nonC-TL, neoantigens, cancer-germline, or melanocyte differentiation antigens were tested for T-cell recognition of pre-existing responses in cancer patients. Donor peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) were in vitro sensitized against 170 selected nonC-TL to isolate antigen-specific T-cell receptors (TCRs) and evaluate their therapeutic potential.RESULTS: We found no recognition of the 507 nonC-TL tested by autologous ex vivo expanded tumor-reactive T-cell cultures while the same cultures demonstrated reactivity to mutated, cancer-germline, or melanocyte differentiation antigens. However, in vitro sensitization of donor PBL against 170 selected nonC-TL, led to the identification of TCRs specific to three nonC-TL, two of which mapped to the 5' UTR regions of HOXC13 and ZKSCAN1, and one mapping to a non-coding spliced variant of C5orf22C. T cells targeting these nonC-TL recognized cancer cell lines naturally presenting their corresponding antigens. Expression of the three immunogenic nonC-TL was shared across tumor types and barely or not detected in normal cells.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings predict a limited contribution of nonC-TL to cancer immunosurveillance but demonstrate they may be attractive novel targets for widely applicable immunotherapies.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis is the most common opportunistic infection among patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and it is also the leading cause of death, causing approximately one-third of acquired immune deficiency syndrome deaths worldwide. China is on the World Health Organization's global list of 30 high-tuberculosis (TB) burden countries. The objective of this study was to evaluate the mortality rate, survival probabilities, and factors associated with death among patients with TB/HIV co-infection undergoing TB treatment in Sichuan, China. A retrospective cohort study was conducted using the Chinese National TB Surveillance System data of TB/HIV co-infected patients enrolled in TB treatment from January 2020 to December 2020. We calculated the mortality rate and survival probabilities using the Kaplan-Meier estimator, and a Cox proportional hazard model was conducted to identify independent risk factors for TB/HIV co-infection mortality. Hazard ratios and their respective 95% confidence intervals were also reported in this study. Of 828 TB/HIV co-infected patients, 44 (5.31%) died during TB treatment, and the crude mortality rate was 7.76 per 1000 person-months. More than half of the deaths (n = 23) occurred in the first 3 months of TB treatment. Overall survival probabilities were 97.20%, 95.16%, and 91.75% at 3rd, 6th, and 12th month respectively. The independent risk factors for mortality among TB/HIV co-infected patients were having extra-pulmonary TB and pulmonary TB co-infection, history of antiretroviral therapy interruption, and baseline cluster of differentiation 4 T-lymphocyte counts <200 cells/μL at the time of HIV diagnosis. Antiretroviral therapy is important for the survival of TB/HIV co-infected patients, and it is recommended to help prolong life by restoring immune function and preventing extra-pulmonary TB.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are monoclonal antibodies used in the treatment of solid and hematologic malignancies. Immune checkpoint inhibitors target the T-cell deactivation system via the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) receptor, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) receptor, and programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1). As a result, the activated T-cell enhances the host tumor response. However, even with their essential clinical benefits, ICIs are associated with a broad spectrum of adverse effects that can be generalized or tissue-specific inflammatory responses known as immune-related adverse events (irAEs). The most common dermatologic toxicity manifests mainly as maculopapular rash and pruritus. Understanding the complexity of immune-mediated response and the importance of clinical histopathologic correlation in recognizing irAEs allows for appropriate intervention and patient care due. We present the case of a 71-year-old African American male diagnosed with a large-cell poorly differentiated neuroendocrine tumor in the gastroesophageal junction of the stomach with mediastinal lymphadenopathy. He was treated with carboplatin, etoposide, and atezolizumab for 4 cycles. However, he developed vitiligo while on maintenance atezolizumab, which is rarely seen with atezolizumab use. Despite the improving clinical outcomes in oncology with ICIs, their adverse effects should not be ignored. When promptly recognized and treated, patients on ICI monotherapy may not need treatment interruption or discontinuation.
Author information:(1)Graduate Student of 2021, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou 450046. jmm137258@163.com.(2)Graduate Student of 2021, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou 450046.(3)Second Ward of Endocrinology Department, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou 450099. ysx982001@163.com.(4)Department of International Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450052, China. wangying56994@126.com.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Jiangxi Pingxiang People's Hospital, Pingxiang Jiangxi 337055. liwenjin11@sina.com.(2)Department of Hematology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410008.(3)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Diseases, Xiangya Hospital, Changsha 410008.(4)Hunan Hematology Oncology Clinical Medical Research Center, Changsha 410008.(5)National Clinical Research Center for Hematologic Diseases, First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou 215006, China.(6)Department of Hematology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410008. pengminyuan@aliyun.com.(7)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Diseases, Xiangya Hospital, Changsha 410008. pengminyuan@aliyun.com.(8)Hunan Hematology Oncology Clinical Medical Research Center, Changsha 410008. pengminyuan@aliyun.com.(9)National Clinical Research Center for Hematologic Diseases, First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou 215006, China. pengminyuan@aliyun.com.
DOI: 10.1016/j.jdcr.2022.12.012PMCID: PMC9898015PMID: 36747587
T-lymphocytes are key mediators of adaptive cellular immunity and knowledge about distinct subsets of these cells in healthy and infected mammary gland secretions remains limited. In this study, we used a multiplex cytometry panel to show that staphylococcal mastitis causes the activation of CD4+, CD8+ and γδ T-cells found in bovine milk. We also highlight remarkable differences in the proportions of naïve and memory T-cells subsets found in blood and milk. These observations will contribute to a better understanding of cell-mediated immune mechanisms in the udder and to the development of new therapeutic and preventive strategies targeting mastitis.
Gout is a disease caused by uric acid (UA) accumulation in the joints, causing inflammation. Two UA forms - monosodium urate (MSU) and soluble uric acid (sUA) have been shown to interact physically with inflammasomes, especially with the nod-like receptor (NLR) family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), albeit the role of the immune response to UA is poorly understood, given that asymptomatic hyperuricemia does also exist. Macrophage phagocytosis of UA activate NLRP3, lead to cytokines release, and ultimately, lead to chemoattract neutrophils and lymphocytes to the gout flare joint spot. Genetic variants of inflammasome genes and of genes encoding their molecular partners may influence hyperuricemia and gout susceptibility, while also influencing other comorbidities such as metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases. In this review, we summarize the inflammatory responses in acute and chronic gout, specifically focusing on innate immune cell mechanisms and genetic and epigenetic characteristics of participating molecules. Unprecedently, a novel UA binding protein - the neuronal apoptosis inhibitor protein (NAIP) - is suggested as responsible for the asymptomatic hyperuricemia paradox.Abbreviation: β2-integrins: leukocyte-specific adhesion molecules; ABCG2: ATP-binding cassete family/breast cancer-resistant protein; ACR: American college of rheumatology; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2, type of pattern recognition receptor; ALPK1: alpha-protein kinase 1; ANGPTL2: angiopoietin-like protein 2; ASC: apoptosis-associated speck-like protein; BIR: baculovirus inhibitor of apoptosis protein repeat; BIRC1: baculovirus IAP repeat-containing protein 1; BIRC2: baculoviral IAP repeat-containing protein 2; C5a: complement anaphylatoxin; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; CARD: caspase activation and recruitment domains; CARD8: caspase recruitment domain-containing protein 8; CASP1: caspase 1; CCL3: chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 3; CD14: cluster of differentiation 14; CD44: cluster of differentiation 44; Cg05102552: DNA-methylation site, usually cytosine followed by guanine nucleotides; contains arbitrary identification code; CIDEC: cell death-inducing DNA fragmentation factor-like effector family; CKD: chronic kidney disease; CNV: copy number variation; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyl transferase - type 1a; CXCL1: chemokine (CXC motif) ligand 1; DAMPs: damage associated molecular patterns; DC: dendritic cells; DNMT(1): maintenance DNA methyltransferase; eQTL: expression quantitative trait loci; ERK1: extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1; ERK2: extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2; EULAR: European league against rheumatism; GMCSF: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; GWAS: global wide association studies; H3K27me3: tri-methylation at the 27th lysine residue of the histone h3 protein; H3K4me1: mono-methylation at the 4th lysine residue of the histone h3 protein; H3K4me3: tri-methylation at the 4th lysine residue of the histone h3 protein; HOTAIR: human gene located between hoxc11 and hoxc12 on chromosome 12; IκBα: cytoplasmatic protein/Nf-κb transcription inhibitor; IAP: inhibitory apoptosis protein; IFNγ: interferon gamma; IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL-12: interleukin 12; IL-17: interleukin 17; IL18: interleukin 18; IL1R1: interleukin-1 receptor; IL-1Ra: interleukin-1 receptor antagonist; IL-22: interleukin 22; IL-23: interleukin 23; IL23R: interleukin 23 receptor; IL-33: interleukin 33; IL-6: interleukin 6; IMP: inosine monophosphate; INSIG1: insulin-induced gene 1; JNK1: c-jun n-terminal kinase 1; lncRNA: long non-coding ribonucleic acid; LRR: leucine-rich repeats; miR: mature non-coding microRNAs measuring from 20 to 24 nucleotides, animal origin; miR-1: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; miR-145: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; miR-146a: miR followed by arbitrary identification code, "a" stands for mir family; "a" family presents similar mir sequence to "b" family, but different precursors; miR-20b: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; "b" stands for mir family; "b" family presents similar mir sequence to "a" family, but different precursors; miR-221: miR - followed by arbitrary identification code; miR-221-5p: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; "5p" indicates different mature miRNAs generated from the 5' arm of the pre-miRNA hairpin; miR-223: miR followed by arbitrary identification code; miR-223-3p: mir followed by arbitrary identification code; "3p" indicates different mature miRNAs generated from the 3' arm of the pre-miRNA hairpin; miR-22-3p: miR followed by arbitrary identification code, "3p" indicates different mature miRNAs generated from the 3' arm of the pre-miRNA hairpin; MLKL: mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudo kinase; MM2P: inductor of m2-macrophage polarization; MSU: monosodium urate; mTOR: mammalian target of rapamycin; MyD88: myeloid differentiation primary response 88; n-3-PUFAs: n-3-polyunsaturated fatty-acids; NACHT: acronym for NAIP (neuronal apoptosis inhibitor protein), C2TA (MHC class 2 transcription activator), HET-E (incompatibility locus protein from podospora anserina) and TP1 (telomerase-associated protein); NAIP: neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein (human); Naip1: neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein type 1 (murine); Naip5: neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein type 5 (murine); Naip6: neuronal apoptosis inhibitory protein type 6 (murine); NBD: nucleotide-binding domain; Nek7: smallest NIMA-related kinase; NET: neutrophil extracellular traps; Nf-κB: nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated b cells; NFIL3: nuclear-factor, interleukin 3 regulated protein; NIIMA: network of immunity in infection, malignancy, and autoimmunity; NLR: nod-like receptor; NLRA: nod-like receptor NLRA containing acidic domain; NLRB: nod-like receptor NLRA containing BIR domain; NLRC: nod-like receptor NLRA containing CARD domain; NLRC4: nod-like receptor family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP: nod-like receptor NLRA containing PYD domain; NLRP1: nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat, and pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP12: nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat, and pyrin domain containing 12; NLRP3: nod-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3; NOD2: nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain; NRBP1: nuclear receptor-binding protein; Nrf2: nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2; OR: odds ratio; P2X: group of membrane ion channels activated by the binding of extracellular; P2X7: p2x purinoceptor 7 gene; p38: member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family; PAMPs: pathogen associated molecular patters; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PGGT1B: geranylgeranyl transferase type-1 subunit beta; PHGDH: phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase; PI3-K: phospho-inositol; PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma; PPARGC1B: peroxisome proliferative activated receptor, gamma, coactivator 1 beta; PR3: proteinase 3 antigen; Pro-CASP1: inactive precursor of caspase 1; Pro-IL1β: inactive precursor of interleukin 1 beta; PRR: pattern recognition receptors; PYD: pyrin domain; RAPTOR: regulatory associated protein of mTOR complex 1; RAS: renin-angiotensin system; REDD1: regulated in DNA damage and development 1; ROS: reactive oxygen species; rs000*G: single nuclear polymorphism, "*G" is related to snp where replaced nucleotide is guanine, usually preceded by an id number; SLC2A9: solute carrier family 2, member 9; SLC7A11: solute carrier family 7, member 11; SMA: smooth muscular atrophy; Smac: second mitochondrial-derived activator of caspases; SNP: single nuclear polymorphism; Sp3: specificity protein 3; ST2: serum stimulation-2; STK11: serine/threonine kinase 11; sUA: soluble uric acid; Syk: spleen tyrosine kinase; TAK1: transforming growth factor beta activated kinase; Th1: type 1 helper T cells; Th17: type 17 helper T cells; Th2: type 2 helper T cells; Th22: type 22 helper T cells; TLR: tool-like receptor; TLR2: toll-like receptor 2; TLR4: toll-like receptor 4; TNFα: tumor necrosis factor alpha; TNFR1: tumor necrosis factor receptor 1; TNFR2: tumor necrosis factor receptor 2; UA: uric acid; UBAP1: ubiquitin associated protein; ULT: urate-lowering therapy; URAT1: urate transporter 1; VDAC1: voltage-dependent anion-selective channel 1.
Comment in    Circ Res. 2023 Mar 3;132(5):583-585.
The liver is the front line organ of the immune system. The liver contains the largest collection of phagocytic cells in the body that detect both pathogens that enter through the gut and endogenously produced antigens. This is possible by the highly developed differentiation capacity of the liver immune system between self-antigens or non-self-antigens, such as food antigens or pathogens. As an immune active organ, the liver functions as a gatekeeping barrier from the outside world, and it can create a rapid and strong immune response, under unfavorable conditions. However, the liver's assumed immune status is anti-inflammatory or immuno-tolerant. Dynamic interactions between the numerous populations of immune cells in the liver are key for maintaining the delicate balance between immune screening and immune tolerance. The anatomical structure of the liver can facilitate the preparation of lymphocytes, modulate the immune response against hepatotropic pathogens, and contribute to some of its unique immunological properties, particularly its capacity to induce antigen-specific tolerance. Since liver sinusoidal endothelial cell is fenestrated and lacks a basement membrane, circulating lymphocytes can closely contact with antigens, displayed by endothelial cells, Kupffer cells, and dendritic cells while passing through the sinusoids. Loss of immune tolerance, leading to an autoaggressive immune response in the liver, if not controlled, can lead to the induction of autoimmune or autoinflammatory diseases. This review mentions the unique features of liver immunity, and dysregulated immune responses in patients with autoimmune liver diseases who have a close association with inborn errors of immunity have also been the emphases.
BACKGROUND: Asthma treatment is difficult due to disease heterogeneity and comorbidities. In addition, the development of drugs targeting the underlying mechanisms of asthma remains slow. We planned to identify the most upregulated differentially expressed long noncoding RNA in asthma to explore its regulatory patterns and pathways in asthma.METHODS: We sensitized mice using a mixture of ovalbumin, house dust mites, and lipopolysaccharide to establish an asthma mouse model. We also sensitized asthma cells with TGF-β1 in an in vitro model. We performed a microarray analysis to identify the lncRNA with the differential expression level in model mice. We applied hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome stainings to mouse tissues to quantify the tissue damage extent. Next, we assess the levels of lncRNA CRNDE, miR-29a-3p, TGF-β1, MCL-1, E-cadherin, vimentin, and snail. We counted the percentages of Th17 cells using flow cytometry. Finally, we performed a dual-luciferase reporter assay to assess the association between lncRNA CRNDE and miR-29a-3p.RESULTS: We successfully established asthma mouse/cell models and selected the lncRNA CRNDE for our study. Transfection of si-CRNDE reduced the degree of injury and inflammation in the mouse model and reversed the TGF-β1-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in the cell model. Moreover, the E-cadherin level was upregulated, and the levels of IL-17A, vimentin, snail, and α-SMA were downregulated. We also discovered that lncRNA CRNDE negatively regulated miR-29a-3p and that this one in turn inhibited MCL-1 in mice. After lncRNA CRNDE expression downregulation, the level of miR-29a-3p was increased, and we detected reduced levels of MCL-1 and EMTs.CONCLUSIONS: lncRNA CRNDE expression downregulation led to reduced inflammation and reduced lung damage in mice with induced asthma, it inhibited the EMTs of lung epithelial cells via the miR-29a-3p/MCL-1 pathway, and it reduced the levels of Th17/IL-17A cells to reduce asthma signs.
PURPOSE: To explore the value of integrating clinical and computed tomography (CT) features to predict multidrug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis (MDR-PTB).PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 212 patients with MDR-PTB and 180 patients with drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis (DS-PTB) who referred to our institute in China between January 2016 and March 2021. The clinical and CT characteristics were analyzed and compared between both groups. Multivariable logistic regression analysis was performed to identify independent factors that can be used to predict MDR-PTB. Furthermore, 115 patients admitted to another center from January 2019 to January 2022 were included as external validation cohort.RESULTS: For clinical characteristics, five parameters were significantly different between the two groups (all P < 0.05). With regard to CT features, nine parameters were significantly different between the two groups (all P < 0.05). Multivariable logistic regression analysis using the aforementioned differential features showed that male sex, retreated history, longer duration of previous anti-TB treatment, lower CD4+ T lymphocyte count, thick-walled cavity, centrilobular micronodules and tree-in-bud sign, bronchial stenosis, pleural and pericardial thickening were the most effective variations associated with MDR-PTB with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.849 and accuracy of 78.6%. Furthermore, the external validation cohort that contains 115 patients obtained an AUC of 0.933 and accuracy of 81.7%.CONCLUSION: MDR-PTB and DS-PTB have different clinical and imaging characteristics. A combined model incorporating these differential features can promptly diagnose MDR-PTB and develop subsequent therapeutic strategies.
Primary malignant lymphoma of the salivary glands is a very rare entity, and primary parotid Hodgkin's Lymphoma (HL) is even rarer. It is rare in the initial evaluation to suspect a parotid tumor. Thus, it is important to keep lymphomatous involvement in mind when facing parotid masses in differential diagnosis. This study presented a case of a 56-year-old male with a 5-month history of left cheek enlargement. Fine Needle Aspiration (FNA) biopsy was performed with no suspicion for lymphoma. Parotidectomy was also done and nodular lymphocyte predominance HL within the parotid gland was confirmed by immunohistochemical study. The Nodular Lymphocyte Predominance Hodgkin's Lymphoma has been defined as a specific histopathological subtype of HL. The initial diagnostic approach is usually carried out through FNA, obtaining high sensitivity and specificity, which allows establishing an adjusted for co-correct diagnosis.
BACKGROUND: Immunological phenotypes and differentiation statuses commonly decide the T cell function and anti-tumor ability. However, little is known about these alterations in CML patients.METHOD: Here, we investigated the immunologic phenotypes (CD38/CD69/HLA-DR/CD28/CD57/BTLA/TIGIT/PD-1) of T subsets (TN, TCM, TEM, and TEMRA) in peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) from de novo CML patients (DN-CML), patients who achieved a molecular response (MR) and those who failed to achieve an MR (TKI-F) after tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) treatment using multicolor flow cytometry.RESULTS: CD38 or HLA-DR positive PB CD8+TN and TCM cells decreased in the DN-CML patients and this was further decreased in TKI-F patients. Meanwhile, the level of PD-1 elevated in CD8+ TEM and TEMRA cells from PB in all groups. Among BM sample, the level of HLA-DR+CD8+TCM cells significantly decreased in all groups and CD8+TEMRA cells from TKI-F patients exhibited increased level of TIGIT and CD8+ tissue-residual T cells (TRM) from DN-CML patients expressed a higher level of PD-1 and TIGIT. Lastly, we found a significantly decreased proportion of CD86+ dendritic cells (DCs) and an imbalanced CD80/CD86 in the PB and BM of DN-CML patients, which may impair the activation of T cells.CONCLUSION: In summary, early differentiated TN and TCM cells from CML patients may remain in an inadequate activation state, particularly for TKI-F patients. And effector T cells (TEM, TEMRA and TRM) may be dysfunctional due to the expression of PD-1 and TIGIT in CML patients. Meanwhile, DCs cells exhibited the impairment of costimulatory molecule expression in DN-CML patients. Those factors may jointly contribute to the immune escape in CML patients.
Adoptive cell therapies, like tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes or chimeric antigen receptor T cells, have become an important immunotherapeutic approach against cancer. One of the main struggles of T cell immunotherapies is how to obtain the most effective T cell phenotype, persistence, and differentiation potential to infuse into patients. Adjusting the T cell ex vivo cell culture conditions is a key factor to increase and improve the efficacy of cellular immunotherapies. In this review, we have summarized the ex vivo impact of short chain fatty acids, a group of gut microbiota derived metabolites, on T cell culture and expansion for immunotherapies. There is a complex gut microbiota-immune system interaction that can affect antitumor immunotherapy efficacy. Indeed, gut microbiota derived metabolites can modulate different biological functions in the immune system local and systemically.
CD8+ T cells belonging to the adaptive immune system play key roles in defending against viral infections and cancers. The current CD8+ T cell-based immunotherapy has emerged as a superior therapeutic avenue for the eradication of tumor cells and long-term prevention of their recurrence in hematologic malignancies. It is believed that an effective adaptive immune response critically relies on the help of the innate compartment. Invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells are innate-like T lymphocytes that have been considered some of the first cells to respond to infections and can secrete a large amount of diverse cytokines and chemokines to widely modulate the innate and adaptive immune responders. Like CD8+ T cells, iNKT cells also play an important role in defense against intracellular pathogenic infections and cancers. In this review, we will discuss the CD8+ T-cell immunity contributed by iNKT cells, including iNKT cell-mediated cross-priming and memory formation, and discuss recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms underlying memory CD8+ T-cell differentiation, as well as aging-induced impairment of T-cell immunity.
Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune inflammatory skin disorder characterized by epidermal hyperplasia and aberrant immune response. In addition to aberrant cytokine production, psoriasis is associated with activation of the Akt/mTOR pathway. mTOR/S6K1 regulates T-lymphocyte activation and migration, keratinocytes proliferation and is upregulated in psoriatic lesions. Several drugs that target Th1/Th17 cytokines or their receptors have been approved for treating psoriasis in humans with variable results necessitating improved therapies. Fisetin, a natural dietary polyphenol with anti-oxidant and anti-proliferative properties, covalently binds mTOR/S6K1. The effects of fisetin on psoriasis and its underlying mechanisms have not been clearly defined. Here, we evaluated the immunomodulatory effects of fisetin on Th1/Th17-cytokine-activated adult human epidermal keratinocytes (HEKa) and anti-CD3/CD28-stimulated inflammatory CD4+ T cells and compared these activities with those of rapamycin (an mTOR inhibitor). Transcriptomic analysis of HEKa revealed 12,713 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the fisetin-treated group compared to 7,374 DEGs in the rapamycin-treated group, both individually compared to a cytokine treated group. Gene ontology analysis revealed enriched functional groups related to PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathways, psoriasis, and epidermal development. Using in silico molecular modeling, we observed a high binding affinity of fisetin to IL-17A. In vitro, fisetin significantly inhibited mTOR activity, increased the expression of autophagy markers LC3A/B and Atg5 in HEKa cells and suppressed the secretion of IL-17A by activated CD4+ T lymphocytes or T lymphocytes co-cultured with HEKa. Topical administration of fisetin in an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced mouse psoriasis model exhibited a better effect than rapamycin in reducing psoriasis-like inflammation and Akt/mTOR phosphorylation and promoting keratinocyte differentiation and autophagy in mice skin lesions. Fisetin also significantly inhibited T-lymphocytes and F4/80+ macrophage infiltration into skin. We conclude that fisetin potently inhibits IL-17A and the Akt/mTOR pathway and promotes keratinocyte differentiation and autophagy to alleviate IMQ-induced psoriasis-like disease in mice. Altogether, our findings suggest fisetin as a potential treatment for psoriasis and possibly other inflammatory skin diseases.
Utilizing the immune system's capacity to recognize and kill tumor cells has revolutionized cancer therapy in recent decades. Phenotypic study of antitumor T cells supports the principle that superior tumor control is achieved by cells with more long-lived memory or stem-like properties as compared to terminally differentiated effector cells. In this Mini-Review, we explore recent advances in profiling the different metabolic programs that both generate and define subsets of memory T cells. We additionally discuss new experimental approaches that aim to maximize the durability and sustained antitumor response associated with memory T cells within the unique immunosuppressive conditions of the tumor microenvironment, such as engineered attempts to overcome hypoxia-induced changes in mitochondrial function, the inhibitory effects of tumor metabolites, and exploitation of more recently-defined metabolic pathways controlling T cell memory fate such as glycogen metabolism.
Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) seroclearance is an optimal therapeutic endpoint, as it reflects the amount of covalently closed circular DNA. The exact mechanisms that contribute to HBsAg reduction are not completely understood. We evaluated adaptive immunity in nucleoside analog-experienced chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients with low HBsAg levels who received oral antiviral therapy. One hundred and ninety-five CHB patients had hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA ≤ 1000 IU/ml and HBsAg < 3000 IU/ml for longer than one year of antiviral therapy. According to HBsAg levels, they were divided into Group 1 (HBsAg reduction ≥ 0.5 log10) and Group 2 (HBsAg reduction < 0.5 log10). Cytokines, adaptive immune cells, and molecular markers in peripheral blood were detected at follow-up times. In total, 38 (19.5%) of the 195 patients achieved HBsAg reduction ≥ 0.5 log10. IL4, IL5, IL10, TGF β, IL17, and PD-1 decreased gradually in these patients. HBsAg reduction had a link to the change in ICOSL+CD19+ B cells and CD40L+CXCR5+CD4+ Tfh cells. More CD8+ naive T lymphocytes differentiated into CD4+ TCMs, CD8+ TCMs and CD8+ TEMs in Group 1. Meanwhile, Group 1 exhibited elevated Th1 and Th1/Th2 levels and reduced levels of Treg versus those in Group 2. With the reduction in HBsAg, the imbalance of T-cell subsets was partially corrected; the immune activity of T cells was enhanced, and the state of immune exhaustion was alleviated to a certain extent.
Dendritic cells (DCs) patrol the organism at an immature stage to detect the presence of pathogens. Once activated, these mature DCs reach the lymph nodes to activate antigen-specific T lymphocytes and thus initiate an adaptative immune response to control the pathogen. The migration of both immature and mature DCs is a key process for their optimal function. DC migration requires transit through narrow constrictions that is allowed by their high local and global deformation capabilities. In addition to cytoplasmic changes, the nucleus mechanical properties also have a major impact for cellular migration and motility. Yet, nucleus intracellular mobility of dendritic cells or its variation upon maturation have not been investigated. Our study defines the biophysical phenotypic variations of dendritic cells upon maturation using interferometric deformability cytometry. This method characterizes different cellular mechanical properties, such as elongation and nucleus offset, by assessing the refractive index spatial distribution of shear-induced deformed cells. By using these parameters, our data suggest that in vitro bone marrow derived dendritic cell (BMDC) maturation induces cell stiffening and reduces nucleus mobility, allowing to distinguish immature and mature dendritic cells. Overall, our method provides insights on intracellular mechanical properties of two dendritic cell states.
The term cystic lung disease encompasses a heterogeneous group of entities characterised by round lung lesions that correspond to cysts with fine walls, which usually contain air. The differential diagnosis of these lesions can be challenging, requiring both clinical and radiological perspectives. Entities such as pulmonary emphysema and cystic bronchiectasis can simulate cystic disease. High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) is the imaging technique of choice for the evaluation and diagnosis of cystic lung disease, because it confirms the presence of lung disease and establishes the correct diagnosis of the associated complications. In many cases, the diagnosis can be established based on the HRCT findings, thus making histologic confirmation unnecessary. For these reasons, radiologists need to be familiar with the different presentations of these entities. A wide variety of diseases are characterised by the presence of diffuse pulmonary cysts. Among these, the most common are lymphangioleiomyomatosis, which may or may not be associated with tuberous sclerosis, Langerhans cell histiocytosis, and lymphocytic interstitial pneumonia. Other, less common entities include Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome, amyloidosis, and light-chain deposit disease. This article describes the characteristics and presentations of some of these entities, emphasizing the details that can help differentiate among them.
The seeds of Vitex negundo have been used for inflammation-related disease treatment in traditional medicine. This study focused on the anti-osteoarthritis (OA) effects of the total lignans of V. negundo seeds (TOV) in monosodium iodoacetate-induced osteoarthritis rats and its pharmacokinetic properties, as well as the effects and potential mechanism of its main components VN1 (6-hydroxy-4-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-phenyl)-3-hydro-xymethyl-7-methoxy-3,4-dihydro-2-naphthaldehydeb) and VN2 (vitedoin A) on receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclast differentiation in bone marrow macrophages (BMMs). TOV significantly attenuated osteoarthritis, leading to an increase in pain thresholds, improvement of knee articular cartilages and chondrocytes loss, and decreased total joint scores and serum levels of TNF-α, interleukin-1β (IL-1β), and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in osteoarthritis rats. The half-time (T1/2 ) was 2.82 h and 1.33 h, and the bioavailability was 15.34%-21.89% and 16.29%-22.11%, for VN1 and VN2, respectively. VN2, rather than VN1, remarkably inhibited tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activity, reduced the number of TRAP-positive multinuclear cells, diminished the formation of actin ring, and decreased mRNA levels of cathepsin K (CTSK), TRAP, nuclear factor of activated T cell 1 (NFATc1), and osteoclast-associated receptor, as well as downregulated protein levels of p-ERK (phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase), TRAP, CTSK and NFATc1 in BMMs. These findings suggest TOV has promising therapeutic potential for OA treatment and VN2, in particular, attenuates osteoclast differentiation by suppressing ERK/NFATc1 signaling and actin ring, mainly accounting for the anti-OA efficacy of TOV.
Local environmental factors influence CD8+ T cell priming in lymph nodes (LNs). Here, we sought to understand how factors unique to the tumor-draining mediastinal LN (mLN) impact CD8+ T cell responses toward lung cancer. Type 1 conventional dendritic cells (DC1s) showed a mLN-specific failure to induce robust cytotoxic T cells responses. Using regulatory T (Treg) cell depletion strategies, we found that Treg cells suppressed DC1s in a spatially coordinated manner within tissue-specific microniches within the mLN. Treg cell suppression required MHC II-dependent contact between DC1s and Treg cells. Elevated levels of IFN-γ drove differentiation Treg cells into Th1-like effector Treg cells in the mLN. In patients with cancer, Treg cell Th1 polarization, but not CD8+/Treg cell ratios, correlated with poor responses to checkpoint blockade immunotherapy. Thus, IFN-γ in the mLN skews Treg cells to be Th1-like effector Treg cells, driving their close interaction with DC1s and subsequent suppression of cytotoxic T cell responses.
Although most characterized tumor antigens are encoded by canonical transcripts (such as differentiation or tumor-testis antigens) or mutations (both driver and passenger mutations), recent results have shown that noncanonical transcripts including long noncoding RNAs and transposable elements (TEs) can also encode tumor-specific neo-antigens. Here, we investigate the presentation and immunogenicity of tumor antigens derived from noncanonical mRNA splicing events between coding exons and TEs. Comparing human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and diverse healthy tissues, we identified a subset of splicing junctions that is both tumor specific and shared across patients. We used HLA-I peptidomics to identify peptides encoded by tumor-specific junctions in primary NSCLC samples and lung tumor cell lines. Recurrent junction-encoded peptides were immunogenic in vitro, and CD8+ T cells specific for junction-encoded epitopes were present in tumors and tumor-draining lymph nodes from patients with NSCLC. We conclude that noncanonical splicing junctions between exons and TEs represent a source of recurrent, immunogenic tumor-specific antigens in patients with NSCLC.
CAR-T therapy has shown successful in the treatment of certain types of hematological malignancy, while the efficacy of CAR-T cell in treating solid tumors has been limited due to the exhaustion of CAR-T caused by the tumor microenvironment in solid tumors. Therefore, improving the exhaustion of CAR-T cell is one of the inspiring strategies for CAR-T treatment of solid tumors. As an important regulator in T cell immunity, the transcription factor RUNX3 not only negatively regulates the terminal differentiation T-bet gene, reducing the ultimate differentiation of T cells, but also increases the residency of T cells in non-lymphoid tissues and tumors. By overexpressing RUNX3 in CAR-T cells, we found that increasing the expression of RUNX3 maintained the low differentiation of CAR-T cells, further improving the exhaustion of CAR-T cells during antigen stimulation. In vitro, we found that RUNX3 could reduce the release of cytokines while maintaining CAR-T cells function. In re-challenge experiments, CAR-T cells overexpressing RUNX3 (Runx3-OE CAR-T) were safer than conventional CAR-T cells, while RUNX3 could also maintain the anti-tumor efficacy of CAR-T cells in vivo. Collectively, we found that Runx3-OE CAR-T cells can improve CAR-T phenotype and reduce cytokines release while maintaining CAR-T cells function, which may improve the safety of CAR-T therapy in clinical trials.
This multiplex staining panel was developed to differentiate cattle T cells into conventional (CD4 and CD8) and unconventional (γδ-TCR) subsets as well as their stage of differentiation and activation. The combination of CD45RO and CD62L allows the identification of naïve (TNaïve ), central memory (TCM ), effector memory (TEM ) and terminal effector (TTE ) T cells. Activated cattle T cells (TAV ) can be identified by the cell surface expression of CD25. This panel was developed using cryopreserved cattle peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and tested on fresh as well as stimulated PBMCs. Therefore, this 8-color, 10-parameter flow cytometry panel simultaneously identifies cattle TNaïve , TAV , TCM , TEM , TTE and γδ-TCR cells. This panel will improve our ability to examine T-cell response to pathogens and vaccines in cattle including the potential to identify previously undescribed subpopulations. Furthermore, this panel can be readily optimized for other bovid species as many of these reagents are likely to cross react.
Regulatory T cell (Treg) activity and differentiation in visceral adipose tissue (VAT) play an important role in inhibiting chronic inflammation and insulin resistance. Whether JAZF-1 and PPAR-γ mediate VAT Treg differentiation to promote the inhibition of chronic inflammation and insulin resistance remains unclear. Here, we investigated the roles of JAZF-1 and PPAR-γ in VAT Treg differentiation, inflammation and insulin resistance using a transgenic mouse model. First, we determined that the levels of glucose and insulin biochemical markers in the JAZF-1 transgenic general feeding or high-fat groups were lower than those in the wild-type general feeding or high-fat groups. Second, the levels of CD4+ , CD25+ , and FOXP3+ differentiation markers in the JAZF-1 transgenic general feeding or high-fat groups were significantly higher than those in the wild-type groups. PPAR-γ inhibition was associated with low levels of CD4+ , CD25+ and FOXP3+ differentiation markers. Third, the levels of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 in the JAZF-1 transgenic groups were lower than those in the wild-type groups, whereas IL-10 and TGF-β levels were higher in the JAZF-1 transgenic groups than in the wild-type groups. After using the PPAR-γ inhibitor, we observed that TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 increased, while IL-10 and TGF-β decreased. We found that JAZF-1 and PPAR-γ could promote Tregs differentiation and regulate insulin resistance by synergistically decreasing the expression levels of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 and increasing those of IL-10 and TGF-β.
While most forms of sarcoidosis of the skin do not require treatment, 40% of patients initially diagnosed with cutaneous sarcoidosis are found to have an asymptomatic disease involving other organ systems. It is the involvement of the lungs, heart, eyes, and nervous system which most often contributes to morbidity/mortality. An early and accurate diagnosis of sarcoidosis is difficult because patients may be asymptomatic, initial presentations may vary, and there is no single reliable diagnostic test except biopsy. We present a case of scar sarcoidosis which led to the diagnosis of stage II pulmonary sarcoidosis in a woman in her 50s. Her scar sarcoidosis presented as well-circumscribed, reddish-brown macules surrounding an atrophic scar from a prior skin graft on the right leg. Biopsy revealed scattered, well-formed, non-necrotizing granulomas of the dermis composed of epithelioid histiocytes and multinucleated giant cells, surrounded by a sparse infiltrate of lymphocytes and histiocytes. A CT chest demonstrated extensive hilar lymphadenopathy, leading to a diagnosis of stage II pulmonary sarcoidosis with cutaneous involvement. This case illustrates the interesting presentation of scar sarcoidosis and underscores the importance of a broad differential including sarcoidosis for skin changes around scars and underscores the need for early biopsy. Prompt cutaneous diagnosis leads to earlier systemic evaluation, therapeutics, and better outcomes.
Author information:(1)Division of Gastroenterological and General Surgery, St. Marianna University Yokohama Seibu Hospital.
Tumor-specific T cells are frequently exhausted by chronic antigenic stimulation. We here report on a human antigen-specific ex vivo model to explore new therapeutic options for T cell immunotherapies. T cells generated with this model resemble tumor-infiltrating exhausted T cells on a phenotypic and transcriptional level. Using a targeted pooled CRISPR-Cas9 screen and individual gene knockout validation experiments, we uncover sorting nexin-9 (SNX9) as a mediator of T cell exhaustion. Upon TCR/CD28 stimulation, deletion of SNX9 in CD8 T cells decreases PLCγ1, Ca2+, and NFATc2-mediated T cell signaling and reduces expression of NR4A1/3 and TOX. SNX9 knockout enhances memory differentiation and IFNγ secretion of adoptively transferred T cells and results in improved anti-tumor efficacy of human chimeric antigen receptor T cells in vivo. Our findings highlight that targeting SNX9 is a strategy to prevent T cell exhaustion and enhance anti-tumor immunity.
Engineered T cells transiently expressing tumor-targeting receptors are an attractive form of engineered T cell therapy as they carry no risk of insertional mutagenesis or long-term adverse side-effects. However, multiple rounds of treatment are often required, increasing patient discomfort and cost. To mitigate this, we sought to improve the antitumor activity of transient engineered T cells by screening a panel of small molecules targeting epigenetic regulators for their effect on T cell cytotoxicity. Using a model for engineered T cells targetting hepatocellular carcinoma, we find that short-term inhibition of G9a/GLP increases T cell antitumor activity in in vitro models and an orthotopic mouse model. G9a/GLP inhibition increases granzyme expression without terminal T cell differentiation or exhaustion and results in specific changes in expression of genes and proteins involved in pro-inflammatory pathways, T cell activation and cytotoxicity.
How lipidome changes support CD8+ effector T (Teff) cell differentiation is not well understood. Here we show that, although naive T cells are rich in polyunsaturated phosphoinositides (PIPn with 3-4 double bonds), Teff cells have unique PIPn marked by saturated fatty acyl chains (0-2 double bonds). PIPn are precursors for second messengers. Polyunsaturated phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate (PIP2) exclusively supported signaling immediately upon T cell antigen receptor activation. In late Teff cells, activity of phospholipase C-γ1, the enzyme that cleaves PIP2 into downstream mediators, waned, and saturated PIPn became essential for sustained signaling. Saturated PIP was more rapidly converted to PIP2 with subsequent recruitment of phospholipase C-γ1, and loss of saturated PIPn impaired Teff cell fitness and function, even in cells with abundant polyunsaturated PIPn. Glucose was the substrate for de novo PIPn synthesis, and was rapidly utilized for saturated PIP2 generation. Thus, separate PIPn pools with distinct acyl chain compositions and metabolic dependencies drive important signaling events to initiate and then sustain effector function during CD8+ T cell differentiation.
PI3Kδ inhibitors are approved for the therapy of B cell malignancies, but their clinical use has been limited by unpredictable autoimmune toxicity, despite promising efficacy and evidence that toxicity is associated with improved clinical outcomes. Prior phenotypic evaluation by CyTOF has identified increases in activated CD8 T cells with activation of Th17 T cells, as well as decreases in Tregs, particularly in patients with toxicity. Here we sought to further understand the effects of idelalisib and duvelisib in vitro, and demonstrate that both idelalisib and duvelisib can inhibit T cell proliferation as well as Th1 and Treg differentiation in vitro, while promoting Th2 and Th17 differentiation. We further demonstrate directly using intracellular flow cytometry that autoimmune toxicity in patients is associated with higher absolute numbers of CD4 and CD8 T cells with Th17 differentiation in peripheral blood prior to therapy, and that gastrointestinal tissues from patients with active autoimmune complications of PI3Kδ inhibitors show infiltration with Th17+ T cells. These same tissues show depletion of Tregs as compared to CLL patients without toxicity, suggesting that loss of Tregs may be permissive for Th17 activation to lead to autoimmune toxicity. Clinical trials to restore this balance are warranted.
Papillary dermal elastolysis is a rare acquired disease of the elastic tissue that mainly affects elderly women with a clinical presentation of small firm papules in the neck, the supraclavicular areas and the upper back. Histopathologically, it is characteristic to find a complete or almost complete absence of elastic fibers in the papillary dermis with stains such as orcein or Verhoeff-Van Gieson. We present the case of an adult female patient presenting a clinical picture of years of evolution of elastic skin-colored papules on her neck, occasionally pruritic. Two biopsies were performed. In one of them an inflammatory infiltrate affecting the hair follicles was observed, and she was diagnosed with mycosis fungoides. The other biopsy showed a total absence of elastic fibers in the papillary dermis and was diagnosed as elastolysis of the papillary dermis. In early stages of papillary dermal elastolysis, a perivascular and periadnexal lymphocytic inflammatory infiltrate has been described, as is the case described above. It is important for dermatopathologist to know this atypical but possible presentation, as it may require a differential diagnosis with other entities such as follicular mycosis fungoides.
Apelin (APL), an endogenous ligand for APJ, has been reported to be upregulated in a murine model of acute colitis induced by sodium dextran sulfate, as well as inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) in humans. However, the mechanisms and functions of APL/APJ axis in the pathogenesis of IBD are unclear. We herein analyzed CD4+ T cells to determine the functions of APL in a murine model of chronic colitis induced in Rag deficient mice (Rag-/-). In colonic tissues of wild-type mice (WT), we found that APL was expressed especially in the lamina propria lymphocytes, where CD4+ T cells are dominant, rather than the epithelial cells. Unexpectedly, the APL expression was rather downregulated in the colonic tissue of the chronic colitis group compared to the control groups (Rag-/- before colitis induction and WT). The APL expression was downregulated when naïve T cells were differentiated into effecter T cells. A lack of APL resulted in decreased naïve T cells and increased effecter T cells in secondary lymphoid organs. A synthetic APL peptide, [Pyr1]-APL-13, increased IL-10 and decreased IFN-γ productions by effecter T cells. Administration of [Pyr1]-APL-13 improved survival rate in association with lessened colitis severity and decreased pro-inflammatory cytokine production. This is the first report showing immunological function of APL specifically on T cells, and these results indicate that APL/APJ axis may be a novel therapeutic target for IBD.
Background: Immunosuppression is critically involved in the development of sepsis and is closely associated with poor outcomes. The novel role of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-35 in sepsis was examined. Methods: Sepsis was induced by in C57BL/6 mice cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). The impacts of IL-35 on effector CD4 + T cells were investigated by examining cell proliferation and the Th1/Th2 ratio in the presence of recombinant IL-35 (rIL-35) or anti-IL-35 (EBI3). The regulatory effect of IL-35 on autophagy was evaluated by measuring autophagy markers and autophagic flux in CLP mice in vivo and in activated effector CD4 + T cells in vitro . Results: IL-35 levels were significantly increased in the serum and spleens of septic mice. rIL-35 administration after CLP further decreased proliferation and the Th1/Th2 ratio in effector CD4 + T cells and significantly shortened the survival time. Sepsis-induced autophagy activation was protective in effector CD4 + T cells and was blocked by rIL-35. The inhibitory effect of IL-35 on autophagy was observed in activated effector CD4 + T cells in vitro , and this effect was mediated by restricting high mobility group box-1 protein (HMGB1) translocation. Conclusion: IL-35 is an immunosuppressive cytokine that impairs CD4 + T-cell proliferation and differentiation in sepsis, and the effect might be mediated by reducing HMGB1-dependent autophagy.
Ginseng, as a traditional Chinese medicine, has a good protective effect against radiotherapy, but its mechanism in radiotherapy still needs to be further explored. The active ingredients of Ginseng were analyzed according to pharmacodynamics in the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP) database, and the target genes of active ingredients were screened by UniProt, PubChem and Swiss target prediction database. The differentially expressed genes of GSE6871 and GSE20162 were analyzed from the GEO database. Further, cluster analysis and enrichment analysis were carried out through protein-protein interaction network to determine hub gene. Next, build the drug-disease target network, conduct molecular docking simulation, and determine the key ingredients and targets of Ginseng on radiotherapy. We screened 16 active ingredients of Ginseng and 747 target genes from the TCMSP database. Eighty-two common differentially expressed genes were obtained by the GEO database. After topological analysis, we finally determined CD28, FYN, IL2 inducible T cell kinase (ITK), MYC and CD247 as hub genes. After integrating the drug-disease target network and molecular docking, we found that Panaxadiol, as an active ingredient of Ginseng, can target ITK to participate in T cell signal receptor pathway and act on radiotherapy. Panaxadiol can act on the key target ITK of radiotherapy, participate in T cell signal receptor pathway, and then affect the proliferation, differentiation and immune response of radiotherapy T cells, so as to reduce the side effects of radiotherapy.
The consumption of processed foods and sugary sodas in Western diets correlates with an increased incidence of obesity, metabolic syndromes such as type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and autoimmune diseases including inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis. All these diseases have an inflammatory component, of which T lymphocytes can play a critical role in driving. Much has been learned regarding the importance of sugar, particularly glucose, in fueling effector versus regulatory T cells that can promote or dampen inflammation, respectively. In particular, glucose and its metabolic breakdown products via glycolysis are essential for effector T cell differentiation and function, while fatty acid-fueled oxidative phosphorylation supports homeostasis and function of regulatory T cells. Nevertheless, a critical knowledge gap, given the prevalence of diabetes in Western societies, is the impact of elevated glucose concentrations on the balance between effector versus regulatory T cells. To begin addressing this, we cultured naïve CD4+ T cells with different concentrations of glucose, and examined their differentiation into effector versus regulatory lineages. Surprisingly, high glucose promoted regulatory T cell differentiation and inhibited Th1 effector differentiation. This skewing towards the regulatory lineage occurred via an indirect mechanism that depends on lactate produced by activated glycolytic T cells. Addition of lactate to the T cell differentiation process promotes the differentiation of Treg cells, and activates Akt/mTOR signaling cascade. Hence, our findings suggest the existence of a novel feedback mechanism in which lactate produced by activated, differentiating T cells skews their lineage commitment towards the regulatory fate.
Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphomas often express IgM and IRTA1 with only a minority demonstrating plasmacytic differentiation. However, like primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoproliferative disorders (PCMZLPD), thyroid MALT lymphomas (T-MALT-L) frequently show plasmacytic differentiation and IgG positivity. Whether T-MALT-L share other features with PCMZLPD, including frequent IgG4 positivity and infrequent IRTA1 expression, and how IRTA1 staining compares to that in Hashimoto thyroiditis (HT) are unknown. Therefore, the clinicopathologic features of 18 T-MALT-L were assessed, and their IRTA1 expression compared with that in 5 HT cases. All T-MALT-L cases included a B-lymphoid component. Plasmacytic differentiation was present in 15 cases and was extensive in 12. Fourteen cases were IgG+ including 2 IgG4+ (12 κ+, 2 κ-/λ-). One case was IgAλ+. Plasmacytic cells were uniformly CD19+/CD56- but CD138- in 7/15 cases. IRTA1+ cells were present in 16/16 cases, ranging from scattered cells to >50%. They were often concentrated in "MALT ball"-type lymphoepithelial lesions, perifollicular regions, and sometimes in germinal centers. IRTA1 positivity was also present in all HT cases, although it was never very extensive and often had a perifollicular distribution, occasionally with sparse aggregates and positive cells within rare thyroid follicles. Thus, T-MALT-L share some features with PCMZLPD but are more similar to noncutaneous MALT lymphomas, with prominent lymphoepithelial lesions, ubiquitous although variable IRTA1 positivity, and infrequent IgG4 positivity. Plasmacytic differentiation is also common although CD138 loss is frequent and light chain staining may be absent. IRTA1 staining may help in the differential diagnosis with HT, although there is some overlap in staining patterns.
IMPORTANCE: Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) has been associated with development of atherosclerosis and leukemia and worse survival among patients with cancer; however, the association with cancer therapy efficacy, in particular immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), and toxicity has not yet been established. Given the widespread use of ICB and the critical role hematopoietic stem cell-derived lymphocytes play in mediating antitumor responses, CH may be associated with therapeutic efficacy and hematologic toxicity.OBJECTIVE: To determine the association between CH and outcomes, hematologic toxicity, and therapeutic efficacy in patients with metastatic gastrointestinal tract cancers being treated with systemic therapy, both in the first-line metastatic treatment setting and in ICB.DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This retrospective cohort study included 633 patients with stage IV colorectal (CRC) and esophagogastric (EGC) cancer who were treated with first-line chemotherapy and/or ICB at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Patients underwent matched tumor and peripheral blood DNA sequencing using the Memorial Sloan Kettering-Integrated Mutation Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets next-generation sequencing assay between January 1, 2006, and December 31, 2020.EXPOSURES: Clonal hematopoiesis-related genetic alterations were identified by next-generation sequencing of patients' tumor and normal blood buffy coat samples, with a subset of these CH alterations annotated as likely putative drivers (CH-PD) based upon previously established criteria.MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Patients with CH and CH-PD in peripheral blood samples were identified, and these findings were correlated with survival outcomes (progression-free survival [PFS] and overall survival [OS]) during first-line chemotherapy and ICB, as well as baseline white blood cell levels and the need for granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) support.RESULTS: Among the 633 patients included in the study (390 men [61.6%]; median age, 58 [IQR, 48-66] years), the median age was 52 (IQR, 45-63) years in the CRC group and 61 (IQR, 53-69) years in the EGC group. In the CRC group, 161 of 301 patients (53.5%) were men, compared with 229 of 332 patients (69.0%) in the EGC group. Overall, 62 patients (9.8%) were Asian, 45 (7.1%) were Black or African American, 482 (76.1%) were White, and 44 (7.0%) were of unknown race or ethnicity. Presence of CH was identified in 115 patients with EGC (34.6%) and 83 with CRC (27.6%), with approximately half of these patients harboring CH-PD (CRC group, 44 of 83 [53.0%]; EGC group, 55 of 115 [47.8%]). Patients with EGC and CH-PD exhibited a significantly worse median OS of 16.0 (95% CI, 11.6-22.3) months compared with 21.6 (95% CI, 19.6-24.3) months for those without CH-PD (P = .01). For patients with CRC and EGC, CH and CH-PD were not associated with PFS differences in patients undergoing ICB or first-line chemotherapy. Neither CH nor CH-PD were correlated with baseline leukocyte levels or increased need for G-CSF support.CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These findings suggest CH and CH-PD are not directly associated with the treatment course of patients with metastatic gastrointestinal tract cancer receiving cancer-directed therapy.
Gastric cancers are highly heterogeneous malignant tumors. To reveal the relationship between differentiation status of cancer cells and tumor immune microenvironments in gastric cancer, single-cell RNA-sequencing was performed on normal mucosa tissue, differentiated gastric cancer (DGC) tissue, poorly differentiated gastric cancer (PDGC) tissue and neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC) tissue sampled from surgically resected gastric cancer specimens. We identified the signature genes for both DGC and PDGC, and found that signature genes of PDGC strongly enriched in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) program. Furthermore, we found that DGC tends to be immune-rich type whereas PDGC tends to be immune-poor type defined according to the density of tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells. Additionally, interferon alpha and gamma responding genes were specifically expressed in the immune-rich malignant cells compared with immune-poor malignant cells. Through analyzing the mixed adenoneuroendocrine carcinoma, we identified intermediate state malignant cells during the trans-differentiation process from DGC to NEC, which showed double-negative expressions of both DGC marker genes and NEC marker genes. Interferon-related pathways were gradually downregulated along the DGC to NEC trans-differentiation path, which was accompanied by reduced CD8+ cytotoxic T-cell infiltration. In summary, molecular features of both malignant cells and immune microenvironment cells of DGC, PDGC and NEC were systematically revealed, which may partially explain the strong tumor heterogeneities of gastric cancer. Especially along the DGC to NEC trans-differentiation path, immune-evasion was gradually enhanced with the decreasing activities of interferon pathway responses in malignant cells.
BACKGROUND: Cirrhosis-related acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) is associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. Prognostic models of ACLF have been developed; however, few studies have focused on the occurrence of ACLF. This study aimed to identify the factors that predict the development of ACLF, hepatic encephalopathy (HE), and infection in patients with cirrhosis.METHODS: Patients with cirrhosis were enrolled, and the serum levels of calcitriol, Cluster of Differentiation 26 (CD206), and macrophage-inducible lectin receptor (Mincle) were measured, and lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (LMR) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio were calculated; all the patients were tracked for 6 months. A generalized estimating equation (GEE) was used to assess the factors associated with ACLF development, HE, and infection. The aforementioned model was derived based on immunological markers, and receiver operating characteristic analysis with area under the curve (AUC) was adopted to evaluate accuracy.RESULTS: After screening 325 patients with cirrhosis, 65 patients were eligible. In the GEE model, low levels of calcitriol (odds ratio [OR] = 3.259; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.118-8.929) and CD206 (OR = 2.666; 95% CI = 1.082-6.567) were associated with the development of ACLF, and the LMR was a protective factor (OR = 0.356; 95% CI = 0.147-0.861). Low calcitriol levels were a risk factor for HE (OR = 3.827) and infection (OR = 2.489). LMR was found to be a protective factor against HE (OR = 0.388). An immunological model for the discrimination of ACLF development within 6 months was proposed, with an AUC of 0.734 (95% CI = 0.598-0.869).CONCLUSION: Single and combined immunological markers, including low LMR and low levels of calcitriol and CD206, were promising for early prediction of the development of ACLF, HE, and infection in patients with cirrhosis.
Author information:(1)The Department of Urology, Iwate Prefectural Ninohe Hospital.(2)The Department of Hematology, Iwate Prefectural Central Hospital.(3)The Department of Urology, Iwate Medical University.
Capping protein regulator and myosin 1 linker 2 (CARMIL2) is necessary for invadopodia formation, cell polarity, lamellipodial assembly, membrane ruffling, acropinocytosis, and collective cell migration. CARMIL2 deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterized by dysfunction in naïve T-cell activation, proliferation, differentiation, and effector function and insufficient responses in T-cell memory. In this paper, we report a 9-year-old female patient with a novel pathogenic variant in CARMIL2 (c.2063C > G:p.Thr688Arg) who presented with various symptoms of primary immunodeficiencies including recurrent upper and lower respiratory infections, perioral and perineum papules, reddish impetiginized atopic dermatitis, oral ulcer, painful urination and vaginitis, otitis media, and failure to thrive. A missense mutation leading to insufficient CARMIL2 protein expression, reduced absolute T-cell and natural killer cell (NK cell) counts, and marked skewing to the naïve T-cell form was identified and indicated defective maturation of T cells and B cells. Following 1 year of multitargeted treatment with corticosteroids, hydroxychloroquine, mycophenolate mofetil, and thymosin, the patient presented with significant regression in rashes. CD4+ T-cell, CD8+ T-cell, and NK cell counts were significantly improved.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a complex, immune-mediated rheumatic disease characterised by excessive extracellular matrix deposition in the skin and internal organs. B cell infiltration into lesional sites such as the alveolar interstitium and small blood vessels, alongside the production of defined clinically relevant autoantibodies indicates that B cells play a fundamental role in the pathogenesis and development of SSc. This is supported by B cell and fibroblast coculture experiments revealing that B cells directly enhance collagen and extracellular matrix synthesis in fibroblasts. In addition, B cells from SSc patients produce large amounts of profibrotic cytokines such as IL-6 and TGF-β, which interact with other immune and endothelial cells, promoting the profibrotic loop. Furthermore, total B cell counts are increased in SSc patients compared with healthy donors and specific differences can be found in the content of naïve, memory, transitional and regulatory B cell compartments. B cells from SSc patients also show differential expression of activation markers such as CD19 which may shape interactions with other immune mediators such as T follicular helper cells and dendritic cells. The key role of B cells in SSc is further supported by the therapeutic benefit of B cell depletion with rituximab in some patients. It is notable also that B cell signaling is impaired in SSc patients, and this could underpin the failure to induce tolerance in B cells as has been shown in murine models of scleroderma.
BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (TB-IRIS) is a frequent complication of cotreatment for TB and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1. We characterized Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb)-specific CD4 T-cell phenotype and transcription factor profile associated with the development of TB-IRIS.METHODS: We examined the role of CD4 T-cell transcription factors in a murine model of mycobacterial IRIS. In humans, we used a longitudinal study design to compare the magnitude of antiretroviral therapy, activation, transcription factor profile, and cytotoxic potential of Mtb-specific CD4 T cells between TB-IRIS (n = 25) and appropriate non-IRIS control patients (n = 18) using flow cytometry.RESULTS: In the murine model, CD4 T-cell expression of Eomesodermin (Eomes), but not Tbet, was associated with experimentally induced IRIS. In patients, TB-IRIS onset was associated with the expansion of Mtb-specific IFNγ+CD4 T cells (P = .039). Patients with TB-IRIS had higher HLA-DR expression (P = .016), but no differences in the expression of T-bet or Eomes were observed. At TB-IRIS onset, Eomes+Tbet+Mtb-specific IFNγ+CD4+ T cells showed higher expression of granzyme B in patients with TB-IRIS (P = .026).CONCLUSIONS: Although the murine model of Mycobacterium avium complex-IRIS suggests that Eomes+CD4 T cells underly IRIS, TB-IRIS was not associated with Eomes expression in patients. Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific IFNγ+CD4 T-cell responses in TB-IRIS patients are differentiated, highly activated, and potentially cytotoxic.
AIMS: Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy has become a viable treatment strategy in bladder cancer. However, treatment responses vary, and improved biomarkers are needed. Crucially, the characteristics of immune cells remain understudied especially in squamous differentiated bladder cancer (sq-BLCA). Here, we quantitatively analysed the tumour-immune phenotypes of sq-BLCA and correlated them with PD-L1 expression and FGFR3 mutation status.METHODS: Tissue microarrays (TMA) of n = 68 non-schistosomiasis associated pure squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and n = 46 mixed urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation (MIX) were subjected to immunohistochemistry for CD3, CD4, CD8, CD56, CD68, CD79A, CD163, Ki67, perforin and chloroacetate esterase staining. Quantitative image evaluation was performed via digital image analysis.RESULTS: Immune infiltration was generally higher in stroma than in tumour regions. B-cells (CD79A) were almost exclusively found in stromal areas (sTILs), T-lymphocytes and macrophages were also present in tumour cell areas (iTILs), while natural killer cells (CD56) were nearly missing in any area. Tumour-immune phenotype distribution differed depending on the immune cell subset, however, hot tumour-immune phenotypes (high density of immune cells in tumour areas) were frequently found for CD8 + T-cells (33%), especially perforin + lymphocytes (52.2%), and CD68 + macrophages (37.6%). Perforin + CD8 lymphocytes predicted improved overall survival in sq-BLCA while high PD-L1 expression (CPS ≥ 10) was significantly associated with higher CD3 + , CD8 + and CD163 + immune cell density and high Ki67 (density) of tumour cells. Furthermore, PD-L1 expression was positively associated with CD3 + /CD4 + , CD3 + /CD8 + and CD68 + /CD163 + hot tumour-immune phenotypes. FGFR3 mutation status was inversely associated with CD8 + , perforin + and CD79A + lymphocyte density.CONCLUSIONS: Computer-based image analysis is an efficient tool to analyse immune topographies in squamous bladder cancer. Hot tumour-immune phenotypes with strong PD-L1 expression might pose a promising subgroup for clinically successful ICI therapy in squamous bladder cancer and warrant further investigation.
T cell receptor (TCR) transgenic mice represent an invaluable tool to study antigen-specific immune responses. In the pre-existing models, a monoclonal TCR is driven by a non-physiologic promoter and randomly integrated into the genome. Here, we create a highly efficient methodology to develop T cell receptor exchange (TRex) mice, in which TCRs, specific to the self/tumor antigen mesothelin (Msln), are integrated into the Trac locus, with concomitant Msln disruption to circumvent T cell tolerance. We show that high affinity TRex thymocytes undergo all sequential stages of maturation, express the exogenous TCR at DN4, require MHC class I for positive selection and undergo negative selection only when both Msln alleles are present. By comparison of TCRs with the same specificity but varying affinity, we show that Trac targeting improves functional sensitivity of a lower affinity TCR and confers resistance to T cell functional loss. By generating P14 TRex mice with the same specificity as the widely used LCMV-P14 TCR transgenic mouse, we demonstrate increased avidity of Trac-targeted TCRs over transgenic TCRs, while preserving physiologic T cell development. Together, our results support that the TRex methodology is an advanced tool to study physiological antigen-specific T cell behavior.
Comment in    Nature. 2023 Feb;614(7946):E12-E14.
Comment on    Nature. 2017 Aug 10;548(7666):228-233.    Nature. 2023 Feb;614(7946):E1-E11.
INTRODUCTION: Critical H1N1 pneumonia patients usually have one of the symptoms such as respiratory failure, septic shock, multiple organ dysfunction, or other need for intensive care management, which are associated with high risk of mortality. It is essential to differentiate the severity of H1N1 pneumonia and take corresponding target treatments.OBJECTIVES: We aim to investigate the differences in clinical characteristics and chest computed tomography (CT) findings between severe and critical patients with H1N1 pneumonia.METHODS: A total of 27 patients diagnosed with H1N1 pneumonia from October 2018 to March 2019 were retrospectively analyzed, and the differences in clinical manifestations, laboratory tests, and chest CT findings between the severe group (15 patients) and the critical group (12 patients) were compared.RESULTS: Frequency of dyspnea at rest was higher in critical group than that in severe group (P = 0.019). The neutrophil percentage was higher (P = 0.014) and the lymphocyte percentage was lower (P = 0.025) in critical compared with severe group. Bilateral lung involvement was the predominant pattern in both severe and critical patients, whereas the number of involved lobes in critical patients was more than that in severe patients (P = 0.024). Peripheral distribution was the predominant pattern in severe patients (40%), whereas more diffuse involvement of the lungs was observed in critical patients (83.30%). Ground-glass opacities and consolidation were the main CT findings in both groups, and prevalence of consolidation was higher in critical relative to severe group (83.30%).CONCLUSION: Compared with severe patients, those with critical H1N1 pneumonia were more likely to present with dyspnea at rest and decreased lymphocyte percentage. Chest CT showed that diffuse bilateral involvement and higher prevalence of consolidation are associated with critical outcomes.
Ly-6A, a member of the Ly-6/uPAR supergene family of proteins, is a cell adhesion and cell signaling protein. Signaling through Ly-6A activates the cell-intrinsic apoptotic cell death pathway in CD4+ T cell lines, as indicated by the release of cytochrome C, and activation of caspases 9 and 3. In addition, Ly-6A induces cytokine production and growth inhibition. The mechanism underlying the distinct cellular responses that are triggered by engaging Ly-6A protein has remained unknown. To examine the relatedness of these distinct responses, we have quantified the production of pro-apoptotic, growth inhibitory and tumor suppressive cytokines, such as TNF-α, TGF-β and a related protein GDF-10, in response to Ly-6A signaling. Anti-Ly-6A monoclonal antibody-induced activation of YH16.33 CD4+ T cell line generated low levels of TGF-β and GDF-10 but elevated levels of TNF-α. Blocking the biological activity of TNF-α resulted in reduced Ly-6A-induced apoptosis in T cells. The Ly-6A-induced response in the T cell line was distinct, as signaling through the antigen receptor complex did not cause growth inhibition and apoptosis despite high levels of TGF-β and GDF-10 that were detected in these cultures. Additionally, in response to antigen receptor complex signaling, lower amount of TNF-α was detected. These results indicate the contribution of TNF-α in the observed Ly-6A-induced growth inhibition and apoptosis and provide a mechanistic explanation for the biologically distinct responses observed in CD4+ T cells after engaging Ly-6A protein. Additionally, the findings reported here will aid in the understanding of inhibitory signaling initiated by Ly-6A protein, especially in the context of its potential immune checkpoint inhibitory role in T cells.
This study aimed to evaluate the effects of different doses of quebracho extract tannins (Schinopsis lorenzii) (EQ) included in the basal diet (DB) on the count of eggs per gram of feces (EPG), count of parasites in the abomasum, hematological, and immunological parameters in lambs naturally infected with Haemonchus contortus. Forty-eight lambs were evaluated for 42 days and divided into four groups (n = 12): CONT- lambs that received DB without EQ supplementation; G1%- DB with EQ at 1% of dry matter intake (DMI) level; G3%- DB with EQ at the 3% of DMI level; G6%- DB with EQ at the 6% DMI level. For EPG counts, feces were collected weekly. For counting abomasal parasites, at the end of the experiment (D42) half of the lambs in each group were slaughtered. For hematological and immunological analysis, venous blood samples were collected at D0, D21, and D42 to perform the erythrocyte count, mean cell volume (MCV), hematocrit, differential leukocyte count, total plasma protein dosage, and serum IgA class anti-H. contortus using an indirect enzyme immunoassay (ELISA). In the EPG count, there was no significant difference (p > 0.05) between the groups compared with the control. Analysis of the abomasal parasite count showed Haemonchus contortus in its entirety; however, there was no significant difference (p > 0.05) in the number of males, females, and total parasites. No differences (p > 0.05) were observed in erythrocyte count, MCV, hematocrit, and total plasma protein. The average total leukocyte, monocyte, eosinophil, and basophil counts showed no difference (p > 0.05). However, the averages of segmented neutrophils in the G1% and G3% groups presented a reduction in the percentage of cells (p < 0.05) between D21 and D42. Regarding the lymphocyte count, a difference was observed in the CONT and G3% groups at D21 and D42 (p < 0.05), when compared to D0. The analyses of the average absorbance of anti-Haemonchus contortus serum IgA showed no difference (p > 0.05), when the groups were analyzed over time or when compared between them. It can be concluded that the inclusion of different doses of tannins from EQ did not alter the parasitological, hematological, and immunological parameters of lambs infected with H. contortus.
BACKGROUND: To enhance the efficacy of adoptive NK cell therapy against solid tumors, NK cells must be modified to resist exhaustion in the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the molecular checkpoint underlying NK cell exhaustion in the TME remains elusive.METHODS: We analyzed the correlation between TIPE2 expression and NK cell functional exhaustion in the TME both in humans and mice by single-cell transcriptomic analysis and by using gene reporter mice. We investigated the effects of TIPE2 deletion on adoptively transferred NK cell therapy against cancers by using NK cells from NK-specific Tipe2-deficient mice or peripheral blood-derived or induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived human NK cells with TIPE2 deletion by CRISPR/Cas9. We also investigated the potential synergy of double deletion of TIPE2 and another checkpoint molecule, CISH.RESULTS: By single-cell transcriptomic analysis and by using gene reporter mice, we found that TIPE2 expression correlated with NK cell exhaustion in the TME both in humans and mice and that the TIPE2 high NK cell subset correlated with poorer survival of tumor patients. TIPE2 deletion promoted the antitumor activity of adoptively transferred mouse NK cells and adoptively transferred human NK cells, either derived from peripheral blood or differentiated from iPSCs. TIPE2 deletion rendered NK cells with elevated capacities for tumor infiltration and effector functions. TIPE2 deletion also synergized with CISH deletion to further improve antitumor activity in vivo.CONCLUSIONS: This study highlighted TIPE2 targeting as a promising approach for enhancing adoptive NK cell therapy against solid tumors.
OBJECTIVE: The aim: To optimize the differential diagnosis of bacterial pneumonia and tuberculosis in HIV-positive patients based on the value of serum seromucoid.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Materials and methods: The study included 77 HIV-positive patients with lung pathology. The 1st group consisted of 44 HIV-infected patients with BP; the 2nd group - of 33 patients with HIV/TB co-infection. Level of SSM, CD4+ T-lymphocytes, HIV-1 RNA viral load was determined. Сlinical, laboratory, microscopic, radiological, microbiological, and statistical methods were used in the research.RESULTS: Results: In patients with HIV/TB co-infection CD4+ T-lymphocyte level was lower, and viral load was higher than in HIV-infected patients with BP. The level of SSM was statistically significantly elevated in patients of both groups compared with the control (p<0,001), but in patients with HIV/TB co-infection the values were statistically significantly higher (p<0,001). In patients with BP, the content of SSM≤15,95 TU occurred statistically significantly more often than in patients with TB (χ2= 65,5; p <0,001). No statistically significant relationship between SSM content and CD4+ T-lymphocyte levels was found.CONCLUSION: Conclusions: The content of SSM in patients with HIV/TB co-infection is statistically significantly higher than in the group of HIV-infected patients with BP. Determination of SSM level can be used as a rapid method of differential diagnosis of BP and TB in HIV-positive patients that will allow to optimize the diagnostic algorithm at the early stage of hospitalization and to receive the necessary timely treatment for HIV-infected patients.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are not terminally differentiated but can acquire effector properties. Here we report an increased expression of human endogenous retrovirus 1 (HERV1-env) proteins in Tregs of patients with de novo autoimmune hepatitis and autoimmune hepatitis, which induces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. HERV1-env-triggered ER stress activates all three branches (IRE1, ATF6, and PERK) of the unfolded protein response (UPR). Our coimmunoprecipitation studies show an interaction between HERV1-env proteins and the ATF6 branch of the UPR. The activated form of ATF6α activates the expression of RORC and STAT3 by binding to promoter sequences and induces IL-17A production. Silencing of HERV1-env results in recovery of Treg suppressive function. These findings identify ER stress and UPR activation as key factors driving Treg plasticity (species: human).
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease with an autoimmune component and associated with joint inflammation in up to 30% of cases. To investigate autoreactive T cells, we developed an imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like inflammation model in K5-mOVA.tg C57BL/6 mice expressing ovalbumin (OVA) on the keratinocyte membrane, adoptively transferred with OT-I OVA-specific CD8+ T cells. We evaluated the expansion of OT-I CD8+ T cells and their localization in skin, blood, and spleen. scRNA-seq and TCR sequencing data from patients with psoriatic arthritis were also analyzed. In the imiquimod-treated K5-mOVA.tg mouse model, OT-I T cells were markedly expanded in the skin and blood at early time points. OT-I T cells in the skin showed mainly CXCR3+ effector memory phenotype, whereas in peripheral blood there was an expansion of CCR4+ CXCR3+ OT-I cells. At a later time point, expanded OVA-specific T-cell population was found in the spleen. In patients with psoriatic arthritis, scRNA-seq and TCR sequencing data showed clonal expansion of CCR4+ TCM cells in the circulation and further expansion in the synovial fluid. Importantly, there was a clonotype overlap between CCR4+ TCM in the peripheral blood and CD8+ T-cell effectors in the synovial fluid. This mechanism could play a role in the generation and spreading of autoreactive T cells to the synovioentheseal tissues in psoriasis patients at risk of developing psoriatic arthritis.
T-cell differentiation is a tightly regulated developmental program governed by interactions between transcription factors (TFs) and chromatin landscapes and affected by signals received from the thymic stroma. This process is marked by a series of checkpoints: T-lineage commitment, T-cell receptor (TCR)β selection, and positive and negative selection. Dynamically changing combinations of TFs drive differentiation along the T-lineage trajectory, through mechanisms that have been most extensively dissected in adult mouse T-lineage cells. However, fetal T-cell development differs from adult in ways that suggest that these TF mechanisms are not fully deterministic. The first wave of fetal T-cell differentiation occurs during a unique developmental window during thymic morphogenesis, shows more rapid kinetics of differentiation with fewer rounds of cell division, and gives rise to unique populations of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) and invariant γδT cells that are not generated in the adult thymus. As the characteristic kinetics and progeny biases are cell-intrinsic properties of thymic progenitors, the differences could be based on distinct TF network circuitry within the progenitors themselves. Here, we review recent single-cell transcriptome data that illuminate the TF networks involved in T-cell differentiation in the fetal and adult mouse thymus.
Lumpy skin disease (LSD) is a notifiable re-emerging transboundary viral disease of bovines that inflicts heavy losses in affected livestock farms. Genetic variations contribute substantially to the inter-individual differences in the immune response against disease agents. The present study aimed to evaluate the genetic basis of differential immune response in Vrindavani cattle by comparing the hematological, biochemical and cytokine genes' expression profiles of LSD-affected and unaffected animals. After 21 days of the outbreak at the farm, the animals were grouped as affected (those who developed symptoms) and unaffected/healthy (those who did not). Standard hematological and biochemical parameters were evaluated in both the groups. Expression profiling of important Th1 (IL2, INFG and GMCSF) and Th2 (IL4, IL6 and IL10) cytokines was also performed via a relative quantification approach using real-time PCR. Erythrogram and leucogram analyses revealed significant differences in total leucocyte count (TLC: 14.18 ± 0.74 versus 11.38 ± 0.68 x103/µL), hemoglobin (Hb: 8.66 ± 0.42 versus 10.84 ± 0.17 g%) and percentage of neutrophils (46.40 ± 1.98 versus 35.40 ± 2.11%), lymphocytes (49.40 ± 1.99 versus 62.40 ± 1.86) and monocytes (4.20 ± 0.37 versus 2.40 ± 0.40) between the affected and healthy animals, respectively. The production of liver enzymes (SGOT and SGPT) was significantly higher in affected animals (74.18 ± 4.76 and 59.51 ± 2.75) when compared to the healthy counterparts (65.95 ± 9.18 and 39.21 ± 3.31). The expression profiling of Th1 and Th2 cytokines revealed significant differences between the two groups, except IL10. The expression of IL2, GMCSF and IL6 were upregulated in healthy animals while that of INFG, IL4 and IL10 were upregulated in LSD-affected animals. The highest abundance was observed for IL2 transcripts in healthy animals among all assessed cytokines with log2fold change of 1.61 as compared to affected counterparts. Overall, the immune response in healthy animals (after exposure to LSD virus) was predominated by the expression of Th1 cell proliferation and there was an increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines as compared to the affected counterparts. The results revealed that the effective immune response to LSD in cattle consists of changes in hematological and biochemical parameters and altered expression profile of cytokines with enhanced phagocytosis and lymphocyte recruitment. Furthermore, optimal expression of Th1 cytokines is required for maintaining optimal health against infectious insult with LSD virus in cattle.
BACKGROUND: Propolis exhibits huge potential in the pharmaceutical industry. In the present study, its effects were investigated on dendritic cells (DCs) stimulated with a tumor antigen (MAGE-1) and retinoic acid (RA) and on T lymphocytes to observe a possible differential activation of T lymphocytes, driving preferentially to Th1 or Treg cells.METHODS: Cell viability, lymphocyte proliferation, gene expression (T-bet and FoxP3), and cytokine production by DCs (TNF-α, IL-10, IL-6 and IL-1β) and lymphocytes (IFN-γ and TGF-β) were analyzed.RESULTS: MAGE-1 and RA alone or in combination with propolis inhibited TNF-α production and induced a higher lymphoproliferation compared to control, while MAGE-1 + propolis induced IL-6 production. Propolis in combination with RA induced FoxP3 expression. MAGE-1 induced IFN-γ production while propolis inhibited it, returning to basal levels. RA inhibited TGF-β production, what was counteracted by propolis.CONCLUSION: Propolis affected immunological parameters inhibiting pro-inflammatory cytokines and favoring the regulatory profile, opening perspectives for the control of inflammatory conditions.
In allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, donor αβ T cells attack recipient tissues, causing graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), a major cause of morbidity and mortality. A central question has been how GVHD is sustained despite T cell exhaustion from chronic antigen stimulation. The current model for GVHD holds that disease is maintained through the continued recruitment of alloreactive effectors from blood into affected tissues. Here, we show, using multiple approaches including parabiosis of mice with GVHD, that GVHD is instead primarily maintained locally within diseased tissues. By tracking 1,203 alloreactive T cell clones, we fitted a mathematical model predicting that within each tissue a small number of progenitor T cells maintain a larger effector pool. Consistent with this, we identified a tissue-resident TCF-1+ subpopulation that preferentially engrafted, expanded, and differentiated into effectors upon adoptive transfer. These results suggest that therapies targeting affected tissues and progenitor T cells within them would be effective.
AIM: The hemoglobin, albumin, lymphocyte, and platelet (HALP) score reflects the immune system and the nutritional status of patients, and prognosis in various cancers. However, the HALP score in hepatocellular carcinoma has not been reported.METHODS: Data were analyzed retrospectively from Child-Pugh A patients undergoing hepatic resection for single hepatocellular carcinoma ≤5 cm. For cross-validation, patients were divided into the training (332 patients) and validation cohort (210 patients). In the training cohort, we divided patients into two groups by appropriate cut-off value of the HALP score, and univariable and multivariable analyses were conducted for disease-free and overall survival (OS) between two groups. In the validation cohort, we examined OS by Kaplan-Meier analysis in the same cut-off value of the HALP score in the training cohort.RESULTS: The HALP-low group was significantly older (p = 0.0003), had fewer hepatitis B surface antigen-positive patients (p = 0.0369), higher prothrombin time (p = 0.0141), lower fibrosis-4 index (p = 0.0206), bigger maximum tumor size (p = 0.0196), and less histological liver fibrosis (p = 0.0077). Multivariate analysis showed that the independent prognostic factors for disease-free survival were fibrosis-4 index ≥2.67 (p = 0.0008), simple nodular type with extranodular growth or confluent multinodular type (p = 0.0221), and intrahepatic metastasis (p = 0.0233), and that for OS were fibrosis-4 index ≥2.67 (p = 0.0020), HALP ≤45.6 (p = 0.0228), and poor differentiation (p = 0.0305). In the validation cohort, Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed the trend toward significantly impaired OS (p = 0.0220) in the HALP-low group.CONCLUSION: We showed that a low HALP score is the independent prognostic factor for Child-Pugh A patients undergoing curative hepatic resection for single and small hepatocellular carcinoma.
Emergency myelopoiesis (EM) is a hematopoietic response against systemic infections that quickly supplies innate immune cells. As lymphopoiesis is strongly suppressed during EM, the role of lymphocytes in that process has not received much attention. Here, we found that myeloid-like B cells (M-B cells), which express myeloid markers, emerge in the bone marrow (BM) after the induction of EM. M-B cells were mainly derived from pre-B cells and preferentially expressed IL-10, which directly stimulates hematopoietic progenitors to enhance their survival and myeloid-biased differentiation. Indeed, lacking IL-10 in B cells, blocking IL-10 in the BM with a neutralizing antibody, and deleting the IL-10 receptor in hematopoietic progenitors significantly suppressed EM, which failed to clear microbes in a cecal ligation and puncture model. Thus, a distinct B cell subset generated during infection plays a pivotal role in boosting EM, which suggests the on-demand reinforcement of EM by adaptive immune cells.
Antigen presentation machinery and professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs) are fundamental for an efficacious immune response against cancers, especially in the context of T cell-centric immunotherapy. Dendritic cells (DCs), the gold standard APCs, play a crucial role in initiating and maintaining a productive antigen-specific adaptive immunity. In recent decades, ex vivo-differentiated DCs from circulating CD14+ monocytes have become the reference for APC-based immunotherapy. DCs loaded with tumor-associated antigens, synthetic peptides, or RNA activate T cells with antitumor properties. This strategy has paved the way for the development of alternative antigen-presenting vaccination strategies, such as monocytes, B cells, and artificial APCs, that have shown effective therapeutic outcomes in preclinical cancer models. The search for alternative APC platforms was initiated by the overall limited clinical impact of DC vaccines, especially in indications such as gliomas, a primary brain tumor known for resistance to any immune intervention. In this Review, we navigate the APC immune therapeutics' past, present, and future in the context of primary brain tumors.
BACKGROUND: We focused on the lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (LMR), neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) and devised an inflammation-combined prognostic index (ICPI) as a prognostic marker of cancer-specific survival (CSS).METHODS: We reviewed the clinicopathological data of 480 patients with gastric cancer undergoing curative laparoscopic gastrectomy between 2009 and 2019. This study examined the significance of LMR, NLR, PLR, and ICPI as cancer-specific prognostic markers.RESULTS: In univariate analysis, tumor diameter, histological differentiation, pathological tumor-node-metastasis (pTNM) stage, LMR, NLR, PLR, C-reactive protein (CRP) level, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), and postoperative chemotherapy were significantly associated with CSS. In multivariate analysis, pTNM stage and CEA were the independent risk factors for CSS, although LMR, NLR, and PLR were not the independent risk factors for CSS. The ICPI formula was constructed using hazard ratios for three inflammation-based biomarkers with worse prognosis identified in the univariate analysis: LMR <4.315, NLR ≥2.344, and PLR ≥212.01, which were each scored as 1, with all remaining values pointed at 0. ICPI was calculated as follows: ICPI = 2.9 × LMR + 2.8 × NLR + 2.8 × PLR. The optimal cutoff value of ICPII was 2.9. On multivariate analysis, pTNM stage, CEA, and ICPI were independent prognostic factors for CSS. In the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, CSS in the high ICPI group was significantly worse than that in the low ICPI group.CONCLUSION: ICPI was devised as a novel predictive index for prognosis, and its usefulness was clarified.
Immune-mediated hematopoietic destruction is a key factor in idiopathic severe aplastic anemia (SAA). With great immunomodulatory functions, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are important for bone marrow niche. While the underlying etiology of immunologic changes in SAA bone marrow remains unknown, dysfunctional MSCs are implicated as a major cause. To provide evidence for their defects in immunomodulation, alterations of SAA MSCs in regulating T cell differentiation were determined. During differentiation from CD4+ T cells into T helper 17 (Th17) cells under polarization conditions, impaired inhibition on IL-17 and IL-1β production was noted when cocultured with SAA MSCs compared to control MSCs (P < 0.05). After stimulation of Th17 activation, the percentage of IL-17-secreting cells was significantly increased in the SAA group (9.1 ± 1.5% vs 6.6 ± 0.4%, P < 0.01). Under regulatory T (Treg) polarization, a higher percentage of CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ Treg cells was detected when cocultured with SAA MSCs compared to control MSCs (8.1 ± 0.5% vs 5.8 ± 0.8%, P < 0.01). Inconsistently, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) concentrations in the culture supernatant were decreased and IL-1β concentrations were elevated in the SAA group. Our data indicated impaired inhibition of SAA MSCs on Th17 activation and aberrant regulation of SAA MSCs on Treg differentiation. Increased IL-17 and IL-1β levels with decreased TGF-β levels in the supernatant suggested the potential of SAA MSCs for triggering a hyperinflammatory environment. Dysfunctional MSCs could contribute to the lack of immunoprotection in the bone marrow, which may be associated with SAA.
SARS-CoV-2 infection in the human body induces a severe storm of inflammatory factors. However, its specific mechanism is still not clear. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) technology is expected to explain the possible mechanism of the disease by detecting differential metabolites. 15 COVID-19 patients and healthy controls were included in this study. Immune indicators such as hs CRP and cytokines were detected to reflect the level of inflammation in patients with COVID-19. The distribution of lymphocytes and subpopulations in peripheral whole blood were detected using flow cytometry to assess the immune function of COVID-19 patients. The expression of differential metabolites in serum was analyzed using GC-MS non-targeted metabolomics. The results showed that hs CRP, IL-5/6/8/10 and IFN-α in the serum of COVID-19 patients increased to varying degrees, and CD3/4/8+ T lymphocytes decreased. Additionally, 53 metabolites in the serum of COVID-19 patients were up regulated, 18 metabolites were down regulated, and 8 metabolites remained unchanged. Increased Cholesterol, Lactic Acid and 1-Monopalmitin may be the mechanism that causes excessive inflammation in COVID-19 patients. The increase of D-Allose may be involved in the process of lymphocyte decrease. In conclusion, the significance of our study is to reveal the possible mechanism of inflammatory response in patients with COVID-19 from the perspective of metabolomics. This provided a new idea for the treatment of COVID-19.
BACKGROUND: In the global effort to discover biomarkers for cancer prognosis, prediction tools have become essential resources. TCR (T cell receptor) repertoires contain important features that differentiate healthy controls from cancer patients or differentiate outcomes for patients being treated with different drugs. Considering, tools that can easily and quickly generate and identify important features out of TCR repertoire data and build accurate classifiers to predict future outcomes are essential.RESULTS: This paper introduces GENTLE (GENerator of T cell receptor repertoire features for machine LEarning): an open-source, user-friendly web-application tool that allows TCR repertoire researchers to discover important features; to create classifier models and evaluate them with metrics; and to quickly generate visualizations for data interpretations. We performed a case study with repertoires of TRegs (regulatory T cells) and TConvs (conventional T cells) from healthy controls versus patients with breast cancer. We showed that diversity features were able to distinguish between the groups. Moreover, the classifiers built with these features could correctly classify samples ('Healthy' or 'Breast Cancer')from the TRegs repertoire when trained with the TConvs repertoire, and from the TConvs repertoire when trained with the TRegs repertoire.CONCLUSION: The paper walks through installing and using GENTLE and presents a case study and results to demonstrate the application's utility. GENTLE is geared towards any researcher working with TCR repertoire data and aims to discover predictive features from these data and build accurate classifiers. GENTLE is available on https://github.com/dhiego22/gentle and https://share.streamlit.io/dhiego22/gentle/main/gentle.py .
Comment in    Nat Metab. 2023 Feb;5(2):201-202.
Epithelial cells control a variety of immune cells by secreting cytokines to maintain tissue homeostasis on mucosal surfaces. Regulatory T (Treg) cells are essential for immune homeostasis and for preventing tissue inflammation; however, the precise molecular mechanisms by which epithelial cell-derived cytokines function on Treg cells in the epithelial tissues are not well understood. Here, we show that peripheral Treg cells preferentially respond to thymic stromal lymphoprotein (TSLP). Although TSLP does not affect thymic Treg differentiation, TSLP receptor-deficient induced Treg cells derived from naïve CD4+ T cells are less activated in an adoptive transfer model of colitis. Mechanistically, TSLP activates induced Treg cells partially through mTORC1 activation and fatty acid uptake. Thus, TSLP modulates the activation status of induced Treg through the enhanced uptake of fatty acids to maintain homeostasis in the large intestine.
An orthotopically allografted mouse GL26 glioma model (Ccr2RFP/wt-Cx3cr1GFP/wt) was used to evaluate the effect of transient, focal opening of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) on the composition of tumor-associated macrophages and microglia (TAMs). BBB opening was induced by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided focused ultrasound (MRgFUS) combined with microbubbles. CX3CR1-GFP cells and CCR2-RFP cells in brain tumors were quantified in microscopic images. Tumors in animals treated with a single session of MRgFUS did not exhibit significant changes in cell numbers when compared with tumors in animals not receiving FUS. However, tumors that received two or three sessions of MRgFUS had significantly increased amounts of both CX3CR1-GFP and CCR2-RFP cells. The effect of MRgFUS on immune cell composition was also characterized and quantified using flow cytometry. Glioma implantation resulted in increased amounts of lymphocytes, monocytes and neutrophils in the brain parenchyma. Tumors administered MRgFUS exhibited increased numbers of monocytes and monocyte-derived TAMs. In addition, MRgFUS-treated tumors exhibited more CD80+ cells in monocytes and microglia. In summary, transient, focal opening of the BBB using MRgFUS combined with microbubbles can activate the homing and differentiation of monocytes and induce a shift toward a more pro-inflammatory status of the immune environment in glioblastoma.
Systemic inflammation halts lymphopoiesis and prioritizes myeloid cell production. How blood cell production switches from homeostasis to emergency myelopoiesis is incompletely understood. Here, we show that lymphotoxin-β receptor (LTβR) signaling in combination with TNF and IL-1 receptor signaling in bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) down-regulates Il7 expression to shut down lymphopoiesis during systemic inflammation. LTβR signaling in MSCs also promoted CCL2 production during systemic inflammation. Pharmacological or genetic blocking of LTβR signaling in MSCs partially enabled lymphopoiesis and reduced monocyte numbers in the spleen during systemic inflammation, which correlated with reduced survival during systemic bacterial and viral infections. Interestingly, lymphotoxin-α1β2 delivered by B-lineage cells, and specifically by mature B cells, contributed to promote Il7 down-regulation and reduce MSC lymphopoietic activity. Our studies revealed an unexpected role of LTβR signaling in MSCs and identified recirculating mature B cells as an important regulator of emergency myelopoiesis.
OBJECTIVE: Exhausted hepatitis B virus (HBV)-specific CD8 T cells in chronic HBV infection are broadly heterogeneous. Characterisation of their functional impairment may allow to distinguish patients with different capacity to control infection and reconstitute antiviral function.DESIGN: HBV dextramer+CD8 T cells were analysed ex vivo for coexpression of checkpoint/differentiation markers, transcription factors and cytokines in 35 patients with HLA-A2+chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and in 29 control HBsAg negative CHB patients who seroconverted after NUC treatment or spontaneously. Cytokine production was also evaluated in HBV peptide-stimulated T cell cultures, in the presence or absence of antioxidant, polyphenolic, PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor and TLR-8 agonist compounds and the effect on HBV-specific responses was further validated on additional 24 HLA-A2 negative CHB patients.RESULTS: Severely exhausted HBV-specific CD8 T cell subsets with high expression of inhibitory receptors, such as PD-1, TOX and CD39, were detected only in a subgroup of chronic viraemic patients. Conversely, a large predominance of functionally more efficient HBV-specific CD8 T cell subsets with lower expression of coinhibitory molecules and better response to in vitro immune modulation, typically detected after resolution of infection, was also observed in a proportion of chronic viraemic HBV patients. Importantly, the same subset of patients who responded more efficiently to in vitro immune modulation identified by HBV-specific CD8 T cell analysis were also identified by staining total CD8 T cells with PD-1, TOX, CD127 and Bcl-2.CONCLUSIONS: The possibility to distinguish patient cohorts with different capacity to respond to immune modulatory compounds in vitro by a simple analysis of the phenotypic CD8 T cell exhaustion profile deserves evaluation of its clinical applicability.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are the critical players in the puzzle of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) disease pathogenesis. Blockade of DC activation has been shown to curtail Th17 cell differentiation and its aberrant function in RA. Recent studies have pointed to the role of the PI3K/AKT signaling axis in the maturation and activation of DCs. However, it is yet to be established how PI3K/AKT inhibition would lead to the abolishment of DC activation and Th17 cell plasticity in RA. Herein, our study decoded whether and how majoon chobchini, an unani compound, abated dendritic cell maturation and regulated the Th17/Treg paradigm in RA. Given our results, majoon chobchini conspicuously restrained MHC II, CD86 expression and, subsequently elevated PDL-1 levels in DCs in-vivo. Of note, inhibition of DC maturation by majoon chobchini, in turn, favoured suppression of the Th17 cell population while driving Treg cell development in adjuvant induced arthritic (AA) rats. Concurrently, majoon chobchini decreased the catabolic effects of IL-17 (Th17 associated cytokine) via a reciprocal increase in IL-10 (Treg associated cytokine) levels in AA rats. Mechanistically, majoon chobchini sustained FoxO1 nuclear localization signaled through dampened PI3K/AKT phosphorylation in-vitro. In concert, PDL-1 expression was heightened in majoon chobchini treated activated DCs that provides a framework for ablation of the DC-Th17 cell pathogenic axis in RA. Notwithstanding, the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 exhibited similar inhibitory effects. In essence, majoon chobchini enhanced PDL-1 expression that abolished DC maturation via regulation of the PI3K/AKT/FoxO1 axis, thereby hindering Th17 differentiation in an animal model of RA. This further warrants a clinical investigation that could validate majoon chobchini as a prospective therapeutic drug in the treatment of RA.
Antigen-specific therapies allow for modulation of the immune system in a disease relevant context without systemic immune suppression. These therapies are especially valuable in autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS), where autoreactive T cells destroy myelin sheath. This work shows that an antigen-specific dual-sized microparticle (dMP) system can effectively halt and reverse disease progression in a mouse model of MS. Current MS treatments leave patients immunocompromised, but the dMP formulation spares the immune system as mice can successfully clear a Listeria Monocytogenes infection. Furthermore, we highlight design principles for particle based immunotherapies including the importance of delivering factors specific for immune cell recruitment (GM-CSF or SDF-1), differentiation (GM-CSF or FLT3L) and suppression (TGF-β or VD3) in conjunction with disease relevant antigen, as the entire formulation is required for maximum efficacy. Lastly, the dMP scheme relies on formulating phagocytosable and non-phagocytosable MP sizes to direct payload to target either cell surface receptors or intracellular targets, as the reverse sized dMP formulation failed to reverse paralysis. We also challenge the design principles of the dMP system showing that the size of the MPs impact efficacy and that GM-CSF plays two distinct roles and that both of these must be replaced to match the primary effect of the dMP system. Overall, this work shows the versatile nature of the dMP system and expands the knowledge in particle science by emphasizing design tenets to guide the next generation of particle based immunotherapies.
During a microbial infection, responding CD8+ T cells give rise to effector cells that provide acute host defense and memory cells that provide sustained protection. An alternative outcome is exhaustion, a state of T cell dysfunction that occurs in the context of chronic infections and cancer. Although it is evident that exhausted CD8+ T (TEX) cells are phenotypically and molecularly distinct from effector and memory CD8+ T cells, the factors regulating the earliest events in the differentiation process of TEX cells remain incompletely understood. Here, we performed single-cell RNA-sequencing and single-cell ATAC-sequencing of CD8+ T cells responding to LCMV-Armstrong (LCMV-Arm) or LCMV-Clone 13 (LCMV-Cl13), which result in acute or chronic infections, respectively. Compared to CD8+ T cells that had undergone their first division in response to LCMV-Arm (Div1ARM) cells, CD8+ T cells that had undergone their first division in response to LCMV-Cl13 (Div1CL13) expressed higher levels of genes encoding transcription factors previously associated with exhaustion, along with higher levels of Ezh2, the catalytic component of the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) complex, which mediates epigenetic silencing. Modulation of Ezh2 resulted in altered expression of exhaustion-associated molecules by CD8+ T cells responding to LCMV-Cl13, though the specific cellular and infectious contexts, rather than simply the level of Ezh2 expression, likely determine the eventual outcome. Taken together, these findings suggest that the differentiation paths of CD8+ T cells responding to acute versus chronic infections may diverge earlier than previously appreciated.
The differentiation of natural killer (NK) cells from human pluripotent stem cells allows for research on and the manufacture of clinical-grade cellular products for immunotherapy. Described here is a two-phase protocol that uses a serum-free commercial medium and a cocktail of cytokines (interleukin [IL]-3, IL-7, IL-15, stem cell factor [SCF], and FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 ligand [Ftl3L]) to differentiate human expanded potential stem cells (hEPSCs) into cells that possess NK cell properties in vitro with both 3-dimensional (3D) and 2-dimensional (2D) culture technology. Following this protocol, CD3-CD56+ or CD45+CD56+ NK cells are consistently generated. When cocultured with tumor targets for 3 h, the differentiated products display mild cytotoxicity as compared to an IL-2-independent permanent cell line, NK92mi cells. The protocol preserves the complexity of the differentiation microenvironment by the generation of 3D structures, thus facilitating the study of the spatial relationships between immune cells and their niches. Meanwhile, the 2D culture system enables the routine phenotypical validation of cell differentiation without harming the delicate differentiation niche.
INTRODUCTION: Glioma is the most common primary tumor in the brain.Integrin beta 2(ITGB2) is a member of the leukocyte integrin family (leukocyte integrin), participating in lymphocyte recycling and homing, cell adhesion, and cell surface-mediated signal transduction. However, few studies on ITGB2 in gliomas have been reported yet.This study first discussed the relationship between ITGB2 expression and clinical characterization of glioma and the prognostic significance of its methylation in low-grade glioma.METHODS: We collected Clinical data and transcription of glioma patients from TCGA, CGGA, and Rembrant datasets to analyze the differential expression of ITGB2 mRNA in glioma tissues and normal tissues. The box polts to evaluated the expression patterns of ITGB2 in different molecular subtypes. Receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) were used to evaluate and verify the reliability of the model. Kaplan-Meier survival curves to evaluated the relationship between the level of ITGB2 mRNA expression and overall survival (OS). Using cox regression analysis to verify the ability of ITGB2 as an independent predictor of OS in glioma patients. We use TIMER to analyze and visualize the association between immune infiltration levels and a range of variables. The methylation of GBMLGG patients were obtained from the TCGA database through the biological portal.RESULTS: ITGB2 can be a potential marker for mesenchymal molecular subtype gliomas. COX regression analysis shows that ITGB2 is an independent predictive marker of OS in malignant glioma patients. Biological processes show that ITGB2 has involved glioma immune-related activities, especially closely related to B cells, CD4+Tcells, macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells. ITGB2 is negatively regulated by ITGB2 methylation, resulting in low expression in LGG tissues. Low expression of ITGB2 and high methylation indicate good OS in patients with LGG. The ITGB2 methylation risk score (ITMRS) obtained from the ITGB2 methylation CpG site can better predict the OS of LGG patients. We used univariate and multivariate cox regression analysis of methylationsites, used the R language predict function to obtain the risk score of these ITGB2 methylation sites(ITMRS).DISCUSSION: ITGB2 can be used as a potential marker of mesenchymal molecular subtypes of gliomas and as an independent predictive marker of OS in patients with malignant gliomas. The ITMRS we established can be used as an independent prognostic factor for LGG and provide a new idea for the diagnosis and treatment of LGG.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) display great promise in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) therapy. However, their low number and differentiation rate limit their further application in the clinics. In the present study, we first optimized a combination of IL-2, TGF-β and cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor AS2863619 (IL-2/TGF-β/AS), which could induce Tregs with high efficiency in vitro. After the induced Tregs (iTregs) were confirmed to suppress lymphocyte proliferation and pro-inflammatory T help cells (Th1 and Th17) activation, a chitosan-stabilized nanoparticle drug delivery system (NDDS) was developed according to the optimized formula of IL-2/TGF-β/AS. In vivo study, the NDDS was injected into the knees of mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). As a result, the NDDS remarkably reduced the pathological score of the CIA, alleviated the inflammatory cell infiltration and synovial hyperplasia, and minimized cartilage tissue damage in the knee joint of the CIA mice. Mechanically, the NDDS administration promoted Treg differentiation and decreased Th17 production, consequently reversing the ratio of Treg/Th17, and reducing the secretion of TNF-α in the sera, which facilitated to relieve the severity and progression of arthritis. In sum, NDDS capable of efficiently inducing Tregs were constructed successfully and provided a potential platform for treating RA by restoring the equilibrium of Treg/Th17 destroyed in RA.
INTRODUCTION: Natural antibody (NAb) derived from CD5+ B-1 cells maintains tissue homeostasis, controls inflammation, aids in establishing long-term protective responses against pathogens, and provides immediate protection from infection. CD5+ B-1 cell NAbs recognize evolutionarily fixed epitopes, such as phosphatidylcholine (PtC), found on bacteria and senescent red blood cells. Anti-PtC antibodies are essential in protection against bacterial sepsis. CD5+ B-1 cell-derived NAbs have a unique germline-like structure that lacks N-additions, a feature critical for providing protection against infection. Previously, we demonstrated the repertoire and germline status of PtC+CD5+ B-1 cell IgM obtained from male mice changes with age depending on the anatomical location of the B-1 cells. More recently, we demonstrated serum antibody from aged female mice maintains protection against pneumococcal infection, whereas serum antibody from male mice does not provide protection.RESULTS: Here, we show that aged female mice have significantly more splenic PtC+CD5+ B-1 cells and more PtC specific serum IgM than aged male mice. Furthermore, we find both age and biological sex related repertoire differences when comparing B cell receptor (BCR) sequencing results of PtC+CD5+ B-1 cells. While BCR germline status of PtC+CD5+ B-1 cells from aged male and female mice is similar in the peritoneal cavity, it differs significantly in the spleen, where aged females retain germline configuration and aged males do not. Nucleic acid sensing toll-like receptors are critical in the maintenance of PtC+ B-1 cells; therefore, to begin to understand the mechanism of differences observed between the male and female PtC+CD5+ B-1 cell repertoire, we analyzed levels of cell-free nucleic acids and found increases in aged females.CONCLUSION: Our results suggest the antigenic milieu differs between aged males and females, leading to differential selection of antigen-specific B-1 cells over time. Further elucidation of how biological sex differences influence the maintenance of B-1 cells within the aging environment will be essential to understand sex and age-related disparities in the susceptibility to bacterial infection and will aid in the development of more effective vaccination and/or therapeutic strategies specific for males and females.
BACKGROUND: The etiology and pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), are generally believed to be related to immune dysfunction and intestinal microbiota disorder. However, the exact mechanism is not yet fully understood. The pathological changes associated with dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis are similar to those in human UC. As a subgroup of the innate immune system, group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s) are widely distributed in the lamina propria of the intestinal mucosa, and their function can be regulated by a variety of molecules. Musashi2 (MSI2) is a type of evolutionarily conserved RNA-binding protein that maintains the function of various tissue stem cells and is essential for postintestinal epithelial regeneration. The effect of MSI2 deficiency in ILC3s on IBD has not been reported. Thus, mice with conditional MSI2 knockout in ILC3s were used to construct a DSS-induced colitis model and explore its effects on the pathogenesis of IBD and the species, quantity and function of the intestinal microbiota.METHODS: Msi2flox/flox mice (Msi2fl/fl ) and Msi2flox/floxRorcCre mice (Msi2ΔRorc ) were induced by DSS to establish the IBD model. The severity of colitis was evaluated by five measurements: body weight percentage, disease activity index, colon shortening degree, histopathological score and routine blood examination. The species, quantity and function of the intestinal microbiota were characterized by high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing of DNA extracted from fecal samples.RESULTS: MSI2 was knocked out in the ILC3s of Msi2ΔRorc mice. The Msi2ΔRorc mice exhibited reductions in body weight loss, the disease activity index, degree of colon shortening, tissue histopathological score and immune cells in the peripheral blood compared to those of Msi2fl/fl mice after DSS administration. The 16S rRNA sequencing results showed that the diversity of the intestinal microbiota in DSS-treated Msi2ΔRorc mice changed, with the abundance of Firmicutes increasing and that of Bacteroidetes decreasing. The linear discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSe) approach revealed that Lactobacillaceae could be the key bacteria in the Msi2ΔRorc mouse during the improvement of colitis. Using PICRUST2 to predict the function of the intestinal microbiota, it was found that the functions of differential bacteria inferred by modeling were mainly enriched in infectious diseases, immune system and metabolic functions.CONCLUSIONS: MSI2 deficiency in ILC3s attenuated DSS-induced colonic inflammation in mice and affected intestinal microbiota diversity, composition, and function, with Lactobacillaceae belonging to the phylum Firmicutes possibly representing the key bacteria. This finding could contribute to our understanding of the pathogenesis of IBD and provide new insights for its clinical diagnosis and treatment.
Erratum in    Front Immunol. 2023 Mar 06;14:1170106.
Serine-Threonine kinase CK2 supports malignant B-lymphocyte growth but its role in B-cell development and activation is largely unknown. Here, we describe the first B-cell specific knockout (KO) mouse model of the β regulatory subunit of CK2. CK2βKO mice present an increase in marginal zone (MZ) and a reduction in follicular B cells, suggesting a role for CK2 in the regulation of the B cell receptor (BCR) and NOTCH2 signaling pathways. Biochemical analyses demonstrate an increased activation of the NOTCH2 pathway in CK2βKO animals, which sustains MZ B-cell development. Transcriptomic analyses indicate alterations in biological processes involved in immune response and B-cell activation. Upon sheep red blood cells (SRBC) immunization CK2βKO mice exhibit enlarged germinal centers (GCs) but display a limited capacity to generate class-switched GC B cells and immunoglobulins. In vitro assays highlight that B cells lacking CK2β have an impaired signaling downstream of BCR, Toll-like receptor, CD40, and IL-4R all crucial for B-cell activation and antigen presenting efficiency. Somatic hypermutations analysis upon 4-Hydroxy-3-nitrophenylacetyl hapten conjugated to Chicken Gamma Globulin (NP-CGG) evidences a reduced NP-specific W33L mutation frequency in CK2βKO mice suggesting the importance of the β subunit in sustaining antibody affinity maturation. Lastly, since diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells derive from GC or post-GC B cells and rely on CK2 for their survival, we sought to investigate the consequences of CK2 inhibition on B cell signaling in DLBCL cells. In line with the observations in our murine model, CK2 inactivation leads to signaling defects in pathways that are essential for malignant B-lymphocyte activation.
BACKGROUND: Allergic rhinitis (AR) and chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) are often concurrent in patients. Changes in DNA methylation affect T cell biological processes, which may explain the occurrence and progression of comorbidity. However, downstream regulatory pathways of DNA methylation in two diseases and the underlying mechanisms have not been fully elucidated.METHODS: The GSE50101, GSE72541, GSE50222 and OEP002482 were mined for the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) or co-expressed genes and differentially methylated genes (DMGs) in AR and CSU patients. We applied GO analysis and consensus clustering to study the potential functions and signal pathways of selected genes in two diseases. GSVA and logistic regression analysis were used to find the regulatory pathway between DNA methylation and activation patterns of CD4+ T cells. Besides, we used the Illumina 850k chip to detect DNA methylation expression profiles and recognize the differentially methylated CpG positions (DMPs) on corresponding genes. Finally, we annotated the biological process of these genes using GO and KEGG pathway analysis.RESULT: The AR-related DEGs were found closely related to the differentiation and activation of CD4+ T cells. The DEGs or co-expressed genes of CD4+ T cells in AR and CSU patients were also clustered using GO and KEGG analysis and we got 57 co-regulatory pathways. Furthermore, logistic regression analysis showed that the regulation of cellular component size was closely related to the activation of CD4+ T cells regulated by DNA methylation. We got self-tested data using the Illumina 850k chip and identified 98 CpGs that were differentially methylated in patients. Finally, we mapped the DMPs to 15 genes and found that they were mainly enriched in the same CD4+T cell regulating pathway.CONCLUSION: Our study indicated that DNA methylation affected by pollen participated in the activation patterns of CD4 + T cells, providing a novel direction for the symptomatic treatment of the co-occurrence of AR and CSU.
Background: DNA methylation aberrations are widespread among the malignant B lymphocytes of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), suggesting that DNA methylation might contribute to the pathogenesis of CLL. Aim: We aimed to explore the differentially methylated positions (DMPs) associated with CLL and screen the differentially methylated and expressed genes (DMEGs) by combining public databases. We aimed to observe the direction of each DMEG in CLL based on the DMPs in the promoter and the body region respectively to narrow down DMEGs. We also aimed to explore the methylation heterogeneity of CLL subgroups and the effect of B cells maturation on CLL. Methods: In this population-based case control study, we reported a genome-wide DNA methylation association study using the Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip, profiling the DNA methylation of CD19+ B Cells from 48 CLL cases and 28 healthy controls. By integrating methylation data and expression data from public databases, gene sets were jointly screened, and then the relationship between methylation sites in promoter and body region and expression of each gene was explored. In addition, support vector machine (SVM) classification algorithm was used to identify subgroups of CLL cases based on methylation pattern, and the effect of B-cell differentiation related methylation sites on CLL-related sites was observed. Results: We identified 34,797 DMPs related to CLL across the genome, most of which were hypomethylated; the majority were located in gene body regions. By combining these DMPs with published DNA methylation and RNA sequencing data, we detected 26,244 replicated DMPs associated with 1,130 genes whose expression were significantly different in CLL cases. Among these DMEGs, nine low expressed DMEGs were selected with hypermethylated in promoter and hypomethylated in body region, and 83 high expressed DMEGs were selected with both hypomethylated in promoter and body region. The 48 CLL cases were divided into 3 subgroups based on methylation site by SVM algorithm. Over 92% of CpGs associated with B cell subtypes were found in CLL-related DMPs. Conclusion: The DNA methylation pattern was altered across the genome in CLL patients. The methylation of ZAP70, FMOD, and ADAMTS17 was significantly different between CLL cases and controls. Further studies are warranted to confirm our findings and identify the underlying mechanisms through which these methylation markers are associated with CLL.
BACKGROUND: The neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratio (MLR) are used as prognostic biomarkers for many diseases. In this study, we aimed to explore the possibility of using ratios of NLR and MLR to predict the prognosis of viral encephalitis (VE).METHODS: A total of 81 patients with an initial diagnosis of VE who were admitted to our hospital from January 2018 to January 2021 were retrospectively analyzed. A routine blood test within 24 h of admission was utilized to determine the ratios of NLR and MLR for each patient. The modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 12 months after discharge was used to evaluate patients' clinical prognosis and the patients were divided into the group of good prognosis (mRS ≤ 1) and the group of poor prognosis (mRS ≥ 2) according to the mRS scores. Univariate and multivariable regression analyses were used to differentiate and assess independent prognostic factors for the prognosis of VE.RESULTS: Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and MLR of the poor prognosis group were significantly higher than that of the good prognosis group. Multivariate logistic regression analysis results showed that NLR [odds ratio (OR): 1.421, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.105-1.827; P < 0.05] and MLR (OR: 50.423, 95% CI: 2.708-939.001; P < 0.05) were independent risk factors for the poor prognosis of VE. NLR > 4.32 and MLR > 0.44 were suggested as the cutoff threshold for the prediction of the poor prognosis of VE.CONCLUSION: Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and MLR obtained from blood tests done at hospital admission have the potential to predict poor prognosis in patients with VE.
DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-2319959/v1PMCID: PMC9882609PMID: 36711868
The transcription factor Myc is critically important in driving cell proliferation, a function that is frequently dysregulated in cancer. To avoid this dysregulation Myc is tightly controlled by numerous layers of regulation. One such layer is the use of distal regulatory enhancers to drive Myc expression. Here, using chromosome conformation capture to examine B cells of the immune system in the first hours after their activation, we reveal a previously unidentified enhancer of Myc. The interactivity of this enhancer coincides with a dramatic, but discrete, spike in Myc expression 3 h post-activation. However, genetic deletion of this region, has little impact on Myc expression, Myc protein level or in vitro and in vivo cell proliferation. Examination of the enhancer deleted regulatory landscape suggests that enhancer redundancy likely sustains Myc expression. This work highlights not only the importance of temporally examining enhancers, but also the complexity and dynamics of the regulation of critical genes such as Myc.
AIMS: Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are major components of the tumor microenvironment and systemically accumulate in tumor-bearing hosts and patients with cancer, facilitating cancer progression. Maitake macromolecular α-glucan YM-2A, isolated from Grifola frondosa, inhibits tumor growth by enhancing immune responses. The present study investigated the effects of YM-2A on the immunosuppressive potential of MDSCs.MAIN METHODS: YM-2A was orally administered to CT26 tumor-bearing mice, and the number of immune cells in the spleen and tumor was measured. Splenic MDSCs isolated from the CT26 tumor-bearing mice were treated with YM-2A and co-cultured with T cells to measure their inhibitory effect on T cell proliferation. For adoptive transfer of monocytic MDSCs (M-MDSCs), YM-2A-treated M-MDSCs mixed with CT26 cells were implanted subcutaneously in the mice to measure the tumor growth rate.KEY FINDINGS: YM-2A selectively reduced the accumulation of M-MDSCs but not that of polymorphonuclear MDSCs (PMN-MDSCs) in CT26 tumor-bearing mice. In tumor tissues, YM-2A treatment induced the polarity of immunostimulatory M1-phenotype; furthermore, it increased the infiltration of dendritic, natural killer, and CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. YM-2A treatment of purified M-MDSCs from CT-26 tumor-bearing mice induced dectin-1-dependent differentiation into M1 macrophages. YM-2A-treated M-MDSCs lost their inhibitory activity against proliferation and activation of CD8+ T cells. Furthermore, adoptive transfer of M-MDSCs treated with YM-2A inhibited CT26 tumor growth.SIGNIFICANCE: YM-2A promotes the differentiation of M-MDSCs into immunostimulatory M1 macrophages, thereby enhancing the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy.
Immune checkpoint receptors such as programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG-3), and T cell immunoglobulin and ITIM domain (TIGIT) have distinct and overlapping inhibitory functions that regulate Tcell activation, differentiation, and function. These inhibitory receptors also mediate tolerance, and dysregulation of these receptors can result in a breach of tolerance and the development of autoimmune syndromes. Similarly, antibody blockade of immune checkpoint receptors or their ligands for cancer immunotherapy may trigger a spectrum of organ inflammation that resembles autoimmunity, termed immune-related adverse events (irAE). In this review, we discuss recent advances in the regulation of autoimmunity by immune checkpoint receptors. We highlight coordinated gene expression programs linking checkpoint receptors, heterogeneity within autoreactive T-cell populations, parallels between irAE and autoimmunity, and bidirectional functional interactions between immune checkpoint receptors and their ligands.
Author information:(1)Medical School, Nantong University, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong 226001, China.
