Posttransplant cyclophosphamide (PTCy) is associated with a low incidence of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) following hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation. Previous studies have shown the important roles of B cell immunity in cGVHD development. Here, we investigated the long-term reconstitution of B lymphopoiesis after PTCy using murine models. We first demonstrated that the immune homeostatic abnormality leading to cGVHD is characterized by an initial increase in effector T cells in the bone marrow and subsequent B and Treg cytopenia. PTCy, but not cyclosporine A or rapamycin, inhibits the initial alloreactive T cell response, which restores intra-bone marrow B lymphogenesis with a concomitant vigorous increase in Tregs. This leads to profound changes in posttransplant B cell homeostasis, including decreased B cell activating factors, increased transitional and regulatory B cells, and decreased germinal center B cells. To identify the cells responsible for PTCy-induced B cell tolerance, we selectively depleted Treg populations that were graft or HSC derived using DEREG mice. Deletion of either Treg population without PTCy resulted in critical B cytopenia. PTCy rescued B lymphopoiesis from graft-derived Treg deletion. In contrast, the negative effect of HSC-derived Treg deletion could not be overcome by PTCy, indicating that HSC-derived Tregs are essential for maintaining favorable B lymphopoiesis following PTCy. These findings define the mechanisms by which PTCy restores homeostasis of the B cell lineage and reestablishes immune tolerance.
The emergence, survival, growth and maintenance of autoreactive (AR) B-cell clones, the hallmark of humoral autoimmunity, leave their footprints in B-cell receptor repertoires. Collecting IgH sequences related to polyreactive (PR) ones from adaptive immune receptor repertoire (AIRR) datasets make the reconstruction and analysis of PR/AR B-cell lineages possible. We developed a computational approach, named ImmChainTracer, to extract members and to visualize clonal relationships of such B-cell lineages. Our approach was successfully applied on the IgH repertoires of patients suffering from monogenic hypomorphic RAG1 and 2 deficiency (pRD) or polygenic systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) autoimmune diseases to identify relatives of AR IgH sequences and to track their fate in AIRRs. Signs of clonal expansion, affinity maturation and class-switching events in PR/AR and non-PR/AR B-cell lineages were revealed. An extension of our method towards B-cell expansion caused by any trigger (e.g., infection, vaccination or antibody development) may provide deeper insight into antigen specific B-lymphogenesis.
Gorham-Stout disease (GSD) is a very rare, life-threatening condition characterized by the proliferation of lymphatic vessels and osteolysis. Unfortunately, no standard treatment has been determined for management of GSD. The available therapies are not equally effective and carry substantial side-effects. We report a 42-year-old female with GSD manifested in multifocal osteolysis and chronic chylothorax and ascites. The combined treatment with sirolimus and zoledronic acid due to its synergism of action was introduced. To our knowledge, this is the first Polish case report of adult patients with Gorham-Stout disease.
Silicosis is a fibrotic disease caused by long-term inhalation of SiO2 particles that currently has no effective treatment. Earlier studies have suggested that pulmonary lymphatic vessels play a key role in the transport of silica but have not address the long-term effects of altered pulmonary lymphatic drainage on silicosis. Here, we investigated the impact of impaired pulmonary lymphatic drainage on silicosis. In the past, lymphatic drainage disorders were established mainly through the use of VEGF inhibitors. For the first time, we established a model of pulmonary lymphatic drainage disorder by ligating the thoracic duct in rats. Impaired pulmonary lymphatic drainage was found to aggravate inflammation and oxidative damage in silicosis rats and accelerate silicosis progression. Next, we investigated the effect of pulmonary lymphatic drainage on silicosis. We have demonstrated the effect of sodium tanshinone IIA sulfonate(STS) on lymphangiogenesis, which revealed that STS promotes lymphangiogenesis and can delay inflammation, oxidative damage, and fibrosis progression in silicosis rats by promoting the pulmonary lymphatic drainage response, and this effect is mediated by the VEGFR-3/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. These findings suggest that pulmonary lymphogenesis plays an important role in silicosis pathogenesis, and targeted intervention in pulmonary lymphangiogenesis may be a potential strategy for treating of silicosis in the future.
Free vascularized lymph node transfer (VLNT) is one of the new and highly efficacious procedures in the cases of lymphedema. In this case, we present a case of lower-limb lymphedema which was managed by this procedure where a supraclavicular LN was harvested and transferred to the lower leg. VLNT from the supraclavicular region is a very effective treatment for physiological restoration of the lymphatic flow in established cases of lower-limb lymphedema because of well-hidden favorable scar and minimal chances of secondary iatrogenic lymphedema in the donor region unlike other sites such as groin and axilla. The VLNT should be preferred over manual lymphatic drainage because it is very effective treatment for physiological restoration of the lymphatic flow, however, the further analytical studies are required to confirm statistically the effectiveness of the same over other modalities.
Background and Objectives: Assessment of RANTES level and concentrations of inflammatory cytokines: programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1), interferon gamma IFN-γ, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), transforming growht factor β (TGF-β) (and angiogenesis factors: vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGF C) in tumor and margin tissues of colorectal cancer (CRC,) and evaluation of RANTES influence on histopathological parameters (microvessel density (MVD), budding, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs)), in relation to patients' clinical features. Materials and Methods: The study used 49 samples of tumor and margin tissues derived from CRC patients. To determinate the concentration of RANTES, PD-L1, IFN-γ, TNF-α, TGF-β, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C, we used the commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit. Additionally, RANTES and PD-L1 expression was assessed with the use of IHC staining in both tumor cells and TILS in randomly selected cases. MVD was assessed on CD34-stained specimens. The MVD and budding were assessed using a light microscope. Results: We found significantly higher levels of RANTES, PD-L1, IFN-γ, TNF-α, TGF-β, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C in the tumor in comparison with the margin. The RANTES tumor levels correlated significantly with those of PD-L1, TNF-α, TGF-β, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C. The RANTES margin levels were significantly associated with the margin levels of all proteins investigated-PD-L1, IFN-γ, TNF-α, TGF-β, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C. Additionally, we observed RANTES- and PD-L1-positive immunostaining in TILs. In a group of 24 specimens, 6 different CRC tumors were positive for RANTES and PD-L1 immunostaining. The IFN-gamma concentration in both tumor and margin and TGF-β in tumor correlated with TILs. TILs were negatively associated with the patients' disease stage and N parameter. Conclusions: RANTES activity might be associated with angiogenesis, lymphogenesis, and immune escape in CRC. RANTES is an important chemokine that is a part of the chemokine-cytokine network involved in the modulation of TME composition in CRC. Further research may verify which processes are responsible for the associations observed in the study.
Tumor metastasis is the leading cause of cancer mortality, often characterized by abnormal cell growth and invasion to distant organs. The cancer invasion due to epithelial to mesenchymal transition is affected by metabolic and oxygen availability in the tumor-associated micro-environment. A precise alteration in oxygen and metabolic signaling between healthy and metastatic cells is a substantial probe for understanding tumor progression and metastasis. Molecular heterogeneity in the tumor microenvironment help to sustain the metastatic cell growth during their survival shift from low to high metabolic-oxygen-rich sites and reinforces the metastatic events. This review highlighted the crucial role of oxygen and metabolites in metastatic progression and exemplified the role of metabolic rewiring and oxygen availability in cancer cell adaptation. Furthermore, we have also addressed potential applications of altered oxygen and metabolic networking with tumor type that could be a signature pattern to assess tumor growth and chemotherapeutics efficacy in managing cancer metastasis.
Non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphomas (NHL) are a heterogeneous group of lymphoid neoplasms with complex etiopathology, rich symptomatology, and a variety of clinical courses, therefore requiring different therapeutic approaches. The hypothesis that an infectious agent may initiate chronic inflammation and facilitate B lymphocyte transformation and lymphogenesis has been raised in recent years. Viruses, like EBV, HTLV-1, HIV, HCV and parasites, like Plasmodium falciparum, have been linked to the development of lymphomas. The association of chronic Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection with mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma, Borrelia burgdorferi with cutaneous MALT lymphoma and Chlamydophila psittaci with ocular adnexal MALT lymphoma is well documented. Recent studies have indicated that other infectious agents may also be relevant in B-cell lymphogenesis such as Coxiella burnettii, Campylobacter jejuni, Achromobacter xylosoxidans, and Escherichia coli. The aim of the present review is to provide a summary of the current literature on infectious bacterial agents associated with B-cell NHL and to discuss its role in lymphogenesis, taking into account the interaction between infectious agents, host factors, and the tumor environment.
The T-cell lymphomas are a rare group of Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas derived from mature T-lymphocytes. They are divided broadly into the Peripheral T-cell lymphomas and the Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. Clinical outcomes vary widely but are generally unsatisfactory with current treatments. The development of an understanding of the various critical pathways in T-cell lymphogenesis and subsequent identification of therapeutic targets has led to a rapid expansion of the previously underwhelming T-cell lymphoma armament. This review aims to provide an up-to-date overview of the current state of targeted therapies in the T-cell lymphomas, including novel antibody-based treatments, small molecule inhibitors and immune-based therapies.
A key challenge in studying organisms and diseases is to detect rare molecular programs and rare cell populations (RCPs) that drive development, differentiation, and transformation. Molecular features such as genes and proteins defining RCPs are often unknown and difficult to detect from unenriched single-cell data, using conventional dimensionality reduction and clustering-based approaches. Here, we propose an unsupervised approach, SCMER (Single-Cell Manifold presERving feature selection), which selects a compact set of molecular features with definitive meanings that preserve the manifold of the data. We applied SCMER in the context of hematopoiesis, lymphogenesis, tumorigenesis, and drug resistance and response. We found that SCMER can identify non-redundant features that sensitively delineate both common cell lineages and rare cellular states. SCMER can be used for discovering molecular features in a high dimensional dataset, designing targeted, cost-effective assays for clinical applications, and facilitating multi-modality integration.
A 17-year-old girl presented with bilateral lower limb lymphedema since 3 years. Lymphedema in the right leg was Grade III, not pitting and not reducing in size after limb elevation. She hailed from a tribal community. Considering her young age, a single-stage operative procedure for her lymphedematous leg was followed, as she was not prepared for a multistaged operation. However, this operative procedure needed to be a combination of both, debulking and physiological procedures, so as to give her immediate limb girth reduction as well as reduction in recurrence, as seen with debulking procedures. We report a newer technique that could achieve both goals.
Contemporary developments in molecular biology have been combined with discoveries on the analysis of the role of all non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) in human diseases, particularly in cancer, by examining their roles in cells. Currently, included among these common types of cancer, are all the lymphomas and lymphoid malignancies, which represent a diverse group of neoplasms and malignant disorders. Initial data suggest that non-coding RNAs, particularly long ncRNAs (lncRNAs), play key roles in oncogenesis and that lncRNA-mediated biology is an important key pathway to cancer progression. Other non-coding RNAs, termed microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs), are very promising cancer molecular biomarkers. They can be detected in tissues, cell lines, biopsy material and all biological fluids, such as blood. With the number of well-characterized cancer-related lncRNAs and miRNAs increasing, the study of the roles of non-coding RNAs in cancer is bringing forth new hypotheses of the biology of cancerous cells. For the first time, to the best of our knowledge, the present review provides an up-to-date summary of the recent literature referring to all diagnosed ncRNAs that mediate the pathogenesis of all types of lymphomas and lymphoid malignancies.
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most frequent lymphoma in adults, and is characterized as clinically and biologically heterogeneous lymphomas with diverse response to therapy and variation in clinical behavior. It's well-established that c-MYC and BCL2 play important roles in normal B-cell differentiation and tumorigenesis. B cell lymphoma with dual expression of c-MYC and BCL2 (double-expressor lymphoma, DEL) accounts for approximately one-third of DLBCL cases. DEL patients have poor outcomes after chemoimmunotherapy or autologous stem-cell transplantation. Lack of a genetic mouse tool for DEL hinders us from understanding the lymphogenesis mechanism and developing therapeutic strategies. Here, we investigated whether ectopic expression of c-MYC and BCL2 in different stages of B cells could lead to lymphoma and generate a mouse model for DEL. We observed that Co-expression of c-MYC and BCL2 in germinal center (GC) B cells, or pan-B cells could induce B cell lymphomas. The tumor-bearing mice have enlarged lymphoid organs, and B cells massively infiltrate into non-lymphoid organs including lung, liver and kidney. The tumor-bearing mice also manifested significantly shorter lifespan than the controls. In addition, adoptive transfer of Co-expression B cells leads to B cell lymphoma and host mice death. This model will provide us a tool to further explore the pathogenesis and treatment approaches for DEL.
Developmental pathways for B cell lymphogenesis are sufficiently known only in mice and humans. However, both of these species rearrange immunoglobulin heavy chains (IgH) before light chains (IgL) while IgL precedes IgH rearrangement in swine. We demonstrate here that this reversed order of rearrangements have some concealed consequences: (1) we confirmed that although IgLκ rearrangement is initial, most IgLλ+ B cells are generated earlier and before IgH rearrangements, while most IgLκ+ B cells later and after IgH rearrangements, (2) the second IgLκ rearrangement can occur after IgLλ rearrangement, (3) early formed B cells bear only single in-frame IgH rearrangements, (4) many IgLκ+ B cells carry IgLλ rearrangements that can be productive and occurring on both alleles in one cell, and (5) although VpreB and λ5 genes are present in swine, they are preferentially expressed in non-B cells. In summary, our findings reveal that swine use an alternative B cell developmental pathway as compared to mice and humans.
Repair of DNA double-stranded breaks (DSBs) during lymphocyte development is essential for V(D)J recombination and forms the basis of immunoglobulin variable region diversity. Understanding of this process in lymphogenesis has historically been centered on the study of RAG1/2 recombinases and a set of classical non-homologous end-joining factors. Much less has been reported regarding the role of chromatin modifications on this process. Here, we show a role for the non-redundant histone H3 lysine methyltransferase, Setd2, and its modification of lysine-36 trimethylation (H3K36me3), in the processing and joining of DNA ends during V(D)J recombination. Loss leads to mis-repair of Rag-induced DNA DSBs, especially when combined with loss of Atm kinase activity. Furthermore, loss reduces immune repertoire and a severe block in lymphogenesis as well as causes post-mitotic neuronal apoptosis. Together, these studies are suggestive of an important role of Setd2/H3K36me3 in these two mammalian developmental processes that are influenced by double-stranded break repair.
Author information:(1)Sección Hematología, Hospital del Salvador, Santiago, Chile.
Porcine thymus contains three independent populations of cells that have rearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain VDJH genes. The first population can be found exclusively in medulla and it consists of existing mature B cells and plasma cells. The second consists of developing B cells characterized by the presence of selected VDJH rearrangement, similar to B cell lymphogenesis in the bone marrow. The third population is entirely unaffected by selection mechanism for productive VDJH rearrangement and represents T lineage cells that rearrange immunoglobulin genes. Transcription of unselected VDJH repertoire is not allowed in T cells. Sequence analysis of unselected VDJH repertoire from T cells also revealed important consequences for B cell lymphogenesis and selection of B cell repertoire. As far as we know, this is the first evidence that some species completely rearrange VDJH genes in T cells. Our results also support the finding that B cells actively develop in the thymus.
Background: Milroy disease (MD) is rare and autosomal dominant resulting from mutations of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 (VEGFR-3 or FLT4), which leads to dysgenesis of the lymphatic system. Methods: Here we report a Chinese MD family with 2 affected members of two generations. We identified the mutation of c.3075G>A in one allele of FLT4 in Chinese population firstly. The father and child presented lymphedema under knees both. Unfortunately, the child was premature delivered for a car accident of the mother and then died of asphyxia. Then we gathered the tissue of the lower-limb from the child with permission from the parents and ethic committee. We stained the tissue with lymphatic marker D2-40 and hematoxylin-eosin to explore the histological changes. Afterwards, we compared the results with a normal child who unfortunately died of premature delivery also. Results: It is firstly identified the mutation of FLT4: c.3075G>A in Chinese population, and the mutation Inherited in the lineage. The histological evaluation indicated: (1) The number of lymphatic vessels decreased; (2) The morphology and structure of lymphatic vessels was abnormal. And what is added to our knowledge: (1) Capillary hyperemia and phlebectasia is severe; (2) Vascular malformations; (3) The number of vascular endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells decreased; (4) Large sheets of epidermis desquamated; (5) The numbers of cutaneous appendages reduced in MD. Conclusions: Based on the new findings, we assume that mutation of FLT4 not only affect the lymphogenesis, but also the angiogenesis, and epidermis structure.
Tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) associate with better prognosis in certain cancer types, but their underlying formation and immunological benefit remain to be determined. We established a mouse model of TLSs to study their contribution to antitumor immunity. Because the stroma in lymph nodes (sLN) participates in architectural support, lymphogenesis, and lymphocyte recruitment, we hypothesized that TLSs can be created by sLN. We selected a sLN line with fibroblast morphology that expressed sLN surface markers and lymphoid chemokines. The subcutaneous injection of the sLN line successfully induced TLSs that attracted infiltration of host immune cell subsets. Injection of MC38 tumor lysate-pulsed dendritic cells activated TLS-residing lymphocytes to demonstrate specific cytotoxicity. The presence of TLSs suppressed MC38 tumor growth in vivo by improving antitumor activity of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes with downregulated immune checkpoint proteins (PD-1 and Tim-3). Future engineering of sLN lines may allow for further enhancements of TLS functions and immune cell compositions.
Comment in    Transl Cancer Res. 2019 Mar;8(Suppl 2):S79-S83.
The Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) component PHD Finger Protein 19 (phf19) gene has been identified to be associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) risk. Here we show that Phf19 is highly expressed in murine germinal centers (GCs) and RA patients. To investigate the function of Phf19 in lymphocytes, we generated RAG1-deficient mice reconstituted with Phf19 or control-vector transduced bone marrow (BM) cells. Lymphogenesis in primary lymphoid tissues of Phf19-RM is normal, however, Phf19-RM form enlarged GCs and generate more antibody-secreting cells (ASCs). Overexpression of Phf19 promotes proliferation and survival of GC B cells and Tfh cells in vivo. The uncovered Phf19-dependent targets include the genes encoding cyclin D2, the prosurvival factor Bcl-xL and CD40-CD40 ligand axis, their regulation by Phf19 could partially elucidate the advantages observed in Phf19-overexpressing GCs. Our results underscore an unrecognized but critical function for Phf19 in GCs formation and antibody generation, and implicate the potential role of Phf19 in RA pathogenesis.
Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is the most common adult-onset primary antibody deficiency disease due to various causative genes. Several genes, which are known to be the cause of different diseases, have recently been reported as the cause of CVID in patients by performing whole exome sequencing (WES) analysis. Here, we found FANC gene mutations as a cause of adult-onset CVID in two patients. B cells were absent and CD4+ T cells were skewed toward CD45RO+ memory T cells. T-cell receptor excision circles (TRECs) and signal joint kappa-deleting recombination excision circles (sjKRECs) were undetectable in both patients. Both patients had no anemia, neutropenia, or thrombocytopenia. Using WES, we identified compound heterozygous mutations of FANCE in one patient and homozygous mutation of FANCA in another patient. The impaired function of FANC protein complex was confirmed by a monoubiquitination assay and by chromosome fragility test. We then performed several immunological evaluations including quantitative lymphocyte analysis and TRECs/sjKRECs analysis for 32 individuals with Fanconi anemia (FA). In total, 22 FA patients (68.8%) were found to have immunological abnormalities, suggesting that such immunological findings may be common in FA patients. These data indicate that FANC mutations are involved in impaired lymphogenesis probably by the accumulation of DNA replication stress, leading to CVID. It is important to diagnose FA because it drastically changes clinical management. We propose that FANC mutations can cause isolated immunodeficiency in addition to bone marrow failure and malignancy.
ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF)-like 4c (ARL4C) expression, induced by a combination of Wnt/β-catenin and EGF/Ras signaling, has been demonstrated to form epithelial morphogenesis. ARL4C overexpression, due to Wnt/β-catenin and EGF/Ras signaling alterations, was involved in tumorigenesis. It was also reported that ARL4C expression correlates with DNA hypomethylation in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of ARL4C gene during lymphogenesis. The current study was conducted to investigate the expression and functions of ARL4C due to DNA hypomethylation in lung and tongue cancers. Immunohistochemical analyses of tissue specimens obtained from lung and tongue squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) patients revealed that ARL4C is not observed in non-tumor regions, but is strongly expressed at high frequencies in tumor lesions. Although inhibition of Wnt/β-catenin or Ras/MAP kinase signaling did not decrease ARL4C expression in NCI-H520 lung SCC cells, ARL4C DNA was clearly hypomethylated in the 3'-UTR. Ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase (TET) enzyme, which mediates DNA demethylation, was highly expressed in NCI-H520 cells. Knockout of TET family proteins (TET1-3) in NCI-H520 cells reduced 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) levels and promoted DNA methylation in the 3'-UTR, leading to the decrease in ARL4C expression and ARL4C-mediated cellular migration. In tumor lesions of ARL4C-positive lung SCC, 5hmC was frequently detected and DNA methylation in the 3'-UTR of ARL4C gene was lower than in non-tumor regions, which were consistent with the Cancer Genome Atlas dataset. These results suggest that ARL4C is expressed due to hypomethylation in the 3'-UTR for certain types of cancers and that ARL4C methylation status is involved in cancer cell function.
PAXX was identified recently as a novel nonhomologous end-joining DNA repair factor in human cells. To characterize its physiological roles, we generated Paxx-deficient mice. Like Xlf-/- mice, Paxx-/- mice are viable, grow normally, and are fertile but show mild radiosensitivity. Strikingly, while Paxx loss is epistatic with Ku80, Lig4, and Atm deficiency, Paxx/Xlf double-knockout mice display embryonic lethality associated with genomic instability, cell death in the central nervous system, and an almost complete block in lymphogenesis, phenotypes that closely resemble those of Xrcc4-/- and Lig4-/- mice. Thus, combined loss of Paxx and Xlf is synthetic-lethal in mammals.
BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: The PAX5, a paired box transcription factor and B-cell activator protein (BSAP), activates B-cell commitment genes and represses non-B-cell lineage genes. About 14 transcript variants of PAX5 have been observed in human. Any alteration in its expression pattern leads to lymphogenesis or associated diseases and carcinogenesis in non-lymphoid tissues. Its mechanisms of function in pathophysiology of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) are unclear. This study was intended to explore influence of PAX5 in cascade of NHL pathogenesis and diagnosis.METHODS: Samples of 65 patients were evaluated by immunohistochemical staining for cellular localization of PAX5, CD19, CD3, cABL, p53, Ras and Raf and by TUNEL assay, RNA-isolation and reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR, w0 estern blot analysis, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) specific staining.RESULTS: B-cell type NHL patients were positive for PAX5, p53, Ras, CD19, Raf and CD3. All of them showed TUNEL-positive cells. The differential expression pattern of PAX5, CD19, p53, CD3, Zap700 , HIF 1α, Ras, Raf and MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) at the levels of transcripts and proteins was observed. The LDH assay showed modulation of LDH4 and LDH5 isoforms in the lymph nodes of NHL patients.INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: The histological observations suggested that the patients represent diverse cases of NHL like mature B-cell type, mature T-cell type and high grade diffuse B-cell type NHL. The findings indicate that patients with NHL may also be analyzed for status of PAX5, CD19 and ZAP70, and their transcriptional and post-translational variants for the differential diagnosis of NHL and therapy.
Pigs with severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) are versatile animal models for human medical research because of their biological similarities to humans, suitable body size, and longevity for practical research. SCID pigs with defined mutation(s) can be an invaluable tool for research on porcine immunity. In this study, we produced RAG2-knockout pigs via somatic cell nuclear transfer and analyzed their phenotype. The V(D)J recombination processes were confirmed as being inactivated. They consistently lacked mature T and B cells but had substantial numbers of cells considered to be T- or B-cell progenitors as well as NK cells. They also lacked thymic medulla and lymphoid aggregations in the spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, and ileal Peyer's patches. We showed more severe immunological defects in the RAG2 and IL2RG double-knockout pig through this study. Thus, SCID pigs could be promising animal models not only for translational medical research but also for immunological studies of pigs themselves.
Ionizing radiation causes depletion of hematopoietic cells and enhances the risk of developing secondary hematopoietic malignancies. Vitamin E analog gamma-tocotrienol (GT3), which has anticancer properties, promotes postirradiation hematopoietic cell recovery by enhancing spleen colony-forming capacity, and provides protection against radiation-induced lethality in mice. However, the underlying molecular mechanism involved in GT3-mediated postirradiation survival is not clearly understood. Recent studies have shown that natural dietary products including vitamin E provide a benefit to biological systems by modulating microRNA (miR) expression. In this study, we show that GT3 differentially modulates the miR footprint in the spleen of irradiated mice compared to controls at early times (day 1), as well as later times (day 4 and 15) after total-body irradiation. We observed that miR expression was altered in a dose- and time-dependent manner in GT3-pretreated spleen tissues from total-body irradiated mice. GT3 appeared to affect the expression of a number of radiation-modulated miRs known to be involved in hematopoiesis and lymphogenesis. Moreover, GT3 pretreatment also suppressed the upregulation of radiation-induced p53, suggesting the function of GT3 in the prevention of radiation-induced damage to the spleen. In addition, we have shown that GT3 significantly reduced serum levels of Flt3L, a biomarker of radiation-induced bone marrow aplasia. Further in silico analyses of the effect of GT3 implied the association of p38 MAPK, ERK and insulin signaling pathways. Our study provides initial insight into the mechanism by which GT3 mediates protection of spleen after total-body irradiation.
The regulation of early B cell development and the interaction of hematopoietic precursors with stromal cells in the bone marrow (BM) are controlled by various secreted signaling molecules. Several recent studies showed Wnt signaling involved in B-lymphogenesis through stromal cells. However, the molecules modulated by Wnt signaling in stromal cells regulating B-lymphogenesis have not been identified yet. Interleukin (IL)-7 and CXC chemokine ligand (CXCL) 12 are known to be express in stromal cells, and both molecules are essential for B-lymphogenesis. In the present study, we examined the role of Wnt signaling in regulating IL-7 and CXCL12 expression and in affecting B-lymphogenesis. In mouse stromal ST2 cells, expression of IL-7 and CXCL12 mRNA was augmented by noncanonical Wnt5a. When mouse BM-derived cells were cultured on Wnt5a-overexpressing ST2 cells, an increased number of B220+/IgM- B-lymphoid precursor cells was observed. These results show that Wnt5a regulates IL-7 gene expression in stromal cells and suggest the possibility that noncanonical Wnt regulates B-lymphogenesis via IL-7 expression in stromal cells.
MicroRNAs are 19-22 nucleotide RNAs involved in such important processes as development, proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. Different miRNAs are uniquely expressed in lymphoid T cells, and play a role indevelopment and differentiation of various subtypes by targeting their target genes. Recent studies have shown that aberrant miRNA expression may be involved in T cell leukemogenesis and lymphogenesis, and may function as tumor suppressor (such as miR-451, miR-31, miR-150, and miR-29a) or oncogene (e.g. miR-222, miR-223, miR-17-92, miR-155). MiRNAs can be used as new biomarkers for prognosis and diagnosis or as an index of disease severity in T-cell leukemia and lymphoma. This article presents a review of studies in recent years on the role of miRNAs in T-cell development and their aberrant expression in pathogenesis of T-cell leukemia and lymphoma. Characterizing miRNAs can help recognize their role as new important molecules with prognostic and therapeutic applications.
The differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells to the B-cell lymphoid lineage has important clinical applications that include in vitro modeling of developmental lymphogenesis in health and disease. Here, we first demonstrate the capacity of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to differentiate into CD144(+)CD73(-)CD43/CD235a(-) cells, characterized as hemogenic endothelium, and show that this population is capable of differentiating to CD10(+)CD19(+) B lymphocytes. We also demonstrate that B lymphocytes generated from hiPSCs are able to undergo full VDJ rearrangement and express surface IgM (sIgM(+)), thus representing an immature B-cell subset. Efficiency of sIgM expression on the hiPSC-derived B lymphocytes (∼ 5% of CD19(+) cells) was comparable with B lymphocytes generated from human umbilical cord blood (UCB) hematopoietic progenitor cells. Importantly, when assessed by global transcriptional profiling, hiPSC-derived B-cells show a very high level of similarity when compared with their UCB-derived counterparts, such that from more than 47,000 different transcripts, only 45 were significantly different (with a criteria adjusted P value P<0.05, log FC >1.5 or 2.8-fold). This represents a unique in vitro model to delineate critical events during lymphogeneisis in development and lymphoid diseases such as acute lymphocytic leukemia.
A course and a site of B cell development in swine are not firmly known. In this study, we show that B cell lymphogenesis is located in the bone marrow (BM). According to expression of MHC class II (MHC-II), CD2, CD21, CD25, CD45RC, CD172a, swine workshop cluster (identification number) (SWC) 7, and μHC, porcine BM cells were resolved into seven subsets representing sequential stages of development. Profile of rearrangement-specific products and transcripts from sorted BM cells confirmed the proposed developmental pathway. The same developmental pathway was further proven by analysis of selection for productive rearrangements in Ig H chains and also by cultivation studies. Cultivation also showed that earliest precursors with incomplete DJ rearrangements can still revert their B cell differentiation and develop along myeloid lineage, whereas this is impossible for later developmental stages. Proliferation and the apoptotic potential of individual developmental stages as well as critical checkpoints were also identified. Colocalization experiments showed early colocalization of MHC-II/CD2/CD172a is replaced by colocalization of MHC-II/CD2/CD21/SWC7/IgM in immature cells, whereas CD25 and CD45RC did not colocalize with any other studied molecules. In this study, we also finally prove that the BM in pigs is fully functional in adult animals and that B lymphogenesis occurs there throughout life. To our knowledge, this is the first study showing a course and a direct site of B cell lymphogenesis in swine.
Rodent hindlimb unloading (HU) by tail-suspension is a model to investigate disuse-induced bone loss in vivo. Previously, we have shown that osteopontin (OPN, also known as Spp1) is required for unloading-induced bone loss. However, how unloading affects OPN expression in the body is not fully understood. Here, we examined OPN expression in peripheral blood of mice subjected to HU. Real-time RT-PCR analysis indicated that OPN expression is increased in circulating peripheral blood cells. This HU-induced increase in OPN mRNA expression was specific in circulating peripheral blood cells, as OPN was not increased in the blood cells in bone marrow. HU-induced enhancement in OPN expression in peripheral blood cells was associated with an increase in the fraction of monocyte/macrophage lineage cells in the peripheral blood. In contrast, HU decreased the fraction size of B-lymphocytes in the peripheral blood. We further examined if B-lymphogenesis is affected in the mice deficient for osteopontin subjected to HU. In bone marrow, HU decreased the population of the B-lymphocyte lineage cells significantly, whereas it did not alter the population of monocyte/macrophage lineage cells. HU also increased the cells in T-lymphocyte lineage in bone marrow. Interestingly, these changes were observed similarly both in OPN-deficient and wild-type mice. These results indicate for the first time that HU increases OPN expression in circulating cells and suppresses bone marrow B-lymphogenesis.
BACKGROUND: α-Smooth muscle actin (α-SMA)-positive myofibroblasts play a pivotal role in progression and metastasis of solid carcinomas. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of cancer cells and lymphogenesis of tumor microenvironment are the important events in tumor metastasis. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the expression of myofibroblasts marker, α-SMA, and clinicopathological features, EMT, lymphogenesis, and prognostic status in oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma (OTSCC).METHODS: Immunohistochemisty was used to detect α-SMA expression in 50 OTSCCs. EMT and lymphogenesis were also identified by immunostaining with N-cadherin, vimentin, and lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1 (LYVE-1).RESULTS: There was a significant correlation respectively between the α-SMA (P = 0.002), vimentin (P < 0.001), N-cadherin (P = 0.025) expression and cervical lymph node metastasis of OTSCC. Carcinomas with α-SMA (P = 0.001), vimentin (P = 0.003), and N-cadherin (P = 0.012) expression were more advanced in terms of tumor-node-metastases status. Univariate analysis showed that pathologic node status (P < 0.001), α-SMA (P = 0.001), and vimentin expression (P = 0.044) was significantly associated with overall survival time, but multivariate analysis just showed the α-SMA expression (P = 0.008) and pathologic node status (P = 0.003) was independently predictive of prognosis. Furthermore, statistical analysis showed significant correlation between α-SMA expression and vimentin (P = 0.037), N-cadherin (P = 0.019), or LYVE-1 positive vessel count (P = 0.041).CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that α-SMA-positive myofibroblasts have important impacts on cancer progression, metastasis, and survival prognosis of patients with OTSCC. The functions of α-SMA-positive myofibroblasts in OTSCC may be associated with promoting EMT of tumor cells and lymphogenesis of metastasis microenvironment.
B cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) is a protein that is vital for lymphogenesis. Its expression has been well established in lymphoma, especially in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Its role in carcinogenesis is less well understood. Previous study shows that BCL6 expression may regulate p19 functions, an important regulator for the p53 pathway. No prior study has attempted to evaluate the significance of BCL6 and p19(ARF) expression in a large cohort of patients with gallbladder carcinomas (GBCs). We selected 164 patients with GBC and performed immunostains for BCL6 and p19(ARF). BCL6 expression and p19(ARF) expression were evaluated using a histochemical score (H-score). We then correlated the results with various clinicopathological factors, disease-specific survival (DSS), and disease-free survival (DFS). BCL6 overexpression was significantly associated with high pT status, high TNM stage, higher histological grade (p = 0.029), vascular invasion, perineurial invasion, high Ki-67 labeling index, and low p19 expression. Importantly, BCL6 overexpression in GBC was strongly associated with worse DSS (p < 0.0001) and DFS (p < 0.0001) in the univariate analysis, and remained independently predictive of adverse outcomes (p = 0.001, hazard ratio (H.R.) = 3.098 for DSS; p = 0.002, H.R. = 2.255 for DFS). Low p19(ARF) expression was correlated with a poor DSS (p = 0.0144) and DFS (p = 0.0032) in the univariate analysis but was not prognosticatory in the multivariate analysis. In GBC, BCL6 overexpression correlated with adverse phenotypes and decreased p19(ARF) expression. BCL6 overexpression also independently predicts worse DSS and DFS, suggesting it has a role in tumorigenesis or carcinogenesis and could be a potential prognostic indicator in GBC.
Despite various great scientific and financial efforts, head and neck carcinomas represent a public health problem, being the eighth cause of cancer death worldwidely. The rate of tumor growth, its local expansion, as well as the metastasis of cancerous cells depend on the tumor vascularization, on the ability of blood vessels to provide a constant supply of nourishing substances and oxygen and to eliminate the residual products resulted from tumor growth. That is why angiogenesis and lymphogenesis are considered to be essential processes within the neoplastic process. The assessment of tumoral neoformed blood vessels in oral squamous carcinomas, using the CD34 antibody, showed a significant growth of the microvascular density, the average number being 504.66±177.65 vessels/mm². The diameter of angiogenesis vessels varied between 3.42 and 121.27 μm. The density of lymphogenesis vessels was 508.78±235.93 vessels/mm², while the diameter varied from 2.82 to 165.28 μm. Both angiogenesis and lymphogenesis vessels were more numerous in the areas where the inflammatory infiltrate was more abundant, which suggests that chronic inflammation plays the part of a promoter factor of neoplastic lesions.
Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 (VEGFR-3) is a receptor for the vascular endothelial growth factor C and D (VEGF-C and D) and plays a critical role in the development of embryonic vascular system and regulation of tumor lymphangiogenesis. In this report, we generated a novel panel of 17 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against human VEGFR-3 and determined their ability to inhibit the proliferation of human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells and angiogenesis of chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM). Among these mAbs, BDD073 was demonstrated to inhibit the interaction of soluble VEGFR-3 with VEGF-D and the proliferation of HEL cells. Furthermore, in chick embryo CAM angiogenesis experiments, the angiogenesis induced by recombinant glutathione-S-transferase-VEGF-D was decreased in the presence of antibody BDD073. These data suggest that this novel neutralizing antibody against human VEGFR-3 could be a tool for the investigations into the biology of VEGFR-3, and potentially a reagent for blocking VEGF-D-induced angiogenesis and lymphogenesis.
Our hypothesis, ALPHA (Acidic Lactate sequentially induced Lymphogenesis, PHlebogenesis, and Arteriogenesis) proposes that lactate triggers vasculogenesis to manage lactate levels and complements the traditional vasculogenesis hypothesis. The teleologic basis for glycolytic vasculogenesis is primariy to produce drainage vessels, initially lymphatics but subsequently veins.
Artiodactyls possess GALT that appears in fetal life and is located at the extreme end of the ileum. These IPP contain mostly B cells and involute early in postnatal life. Rabbits have a similarly located lymphoid organ, called the sacculus rotundus. Studies in sheep and rabbits have led to the concept that the lower hindgut GALT represents primary lymphoid tissue for B cells and is necessary for normal B cell development, analogous to the bursa of Fabricius. This review traces the history of the observations and theories that have led to the existing concept concerning the role of lower GALT. We then review recent data from piglets with resected IPP that challenges the concept that the IPP is primary B cell lymphoid tissue and that artiodactyls and rabbits are members of the GALT group in the same context as gallinaceous birds. Eliminating the IPP as the primary lymphoid tissue for B cells leads to the hypothesis that the IPP acts as first-responder mucosal lymphoid tissue.
We characterized 239 lambda rearrangements from fetal and germfree (GF) piglets to: (1) determine if transcripts recovered from the earliest sites of B cell lymphogenesis were unique (2) determine what proportion of the genome is used to form the pre-immune repertoire (3) estimate the degree of somatic hypermutation and junctional diversity during ontogeny and (4) test whether piglets maintained germfree in isolators (GF piglets) have a more diversified repertoire than fetal piglets. We show that all expressed lambda genes belong to the IGLV3 and IGLV8 families and only IGLJ2 and IGLJ3 were expressed and used equally throughout fetal and neonatal life. Only genes of the IGLV8 family were used in yolk sac and fetal liver and in these tissues, IGLV8-10 comprised >50%. However, the IGLV8 genes recovered at these early sites of B cell lymphogenesis were recovered at all stages of development. Thus, no unique lambda rearrangement was recovered at the first sites of B cell development. The frequency of somatic hypermutation (SHM) in fetal piglets was ~5.9 per Kb equivalent, mutation were concentrated in CDR regions and did not increase in GF piglets. The average CDR3 length was 30 nt ± 2.7 and did not change in GF piglets. Similar to the heavy chain pre-immune repertoire in this species, three IGLV genes account for ~70% of the repertoire. Unlike the heavy chain repertoire, junctional diversity was very limited.
The genes encoding the heavy and light chains of swine antibodies are organized in the same manner as in other eutherian mammals. There are ∼30 VH genes, two functional DH genes and one functional JH gene, 14-60 Vκ genes, 5 Jκ segments, 12-13 functional Vλ genes, and two functional Jλ genes. The heavy chain constant regions encode the same repertoire of isotypes common to other eutherian mammals. The piglet models offers advantage over rodent models since the fetal repertoire develops without maternal influences and the precocial nature of their multiple offspring allows the experimenter to control the influences of environmental and maternal factors on repertoire development postnatally. B cell lymphogenesis in swine begins in the fetal yolk sac at 20 days of gestation (DG), moves to the fetal liver at 30 DG and eventually to the bone marrow which dominates until birth (114 DG) and to at least 5 weeks postpartum. There is no evidence that the ileal Peyers patches are a site of B cell lymphogenesis or are required for B cell maintenance. Unlike rodents and humans, light chain rearrangement begins first in the lambda locus; kappa rearrangements are not seen until late gestation. Dissimilar to lab rodents and more in the direction of the rabbit, swine utilize a small number of VH genes to form >90% of their pre-immune repertoire. Diversification in response to environmental antigen does not alter this pattern and is achieved by somatic hypermutation (SHM) of the same small number of VH genes. The situation for light chains is less well studied, but certain Vκ and Jκ and Vλ and Jλ are dominant in transcripts and in contrast to rearranged heavy chains, there is little junctional diversity, less SHM, and mutations are not concentrated in CDR regions. The transcribed and secreted pre-immune antibodies of the fetus include mainly IgM, IgA, and IgG3; this last isotype may provide a type of first responder mucosal immunity. Development of functional adaptive immunity is dependent on bacterial MAMPs or MAMPs provided by viral infections, indicating the importance of innate immunity for development of adaptive immunity. The structural analysis of Ig genes of this species indicate that especially the VH and Cγ gene are the result of tandem gene duplication in the context of genomic gene conversion. Since only a few of these duplicated VH genes substantially contribute to the antibody repertoire, polygeny may be a vestige from a time before somatic processes became prominently evolved to generate the antibody repertoire. In swine we believe such duplications within the genome have very limited functional significance and their occurrence is therefore overrated.
VDJ and VJ rearrangements, expression of RAG-1, Tdt and VpreB, and the presence of signal joint circles (SJC) were used to identify sites of B-cell lymphogenesis. VDJ, VλJλ but not VκJκ rearrangements or SJC were recovered from yolk sac (YS) at 20 days of gestation (DG) along with strong expression of VpreB and RAG-1 but weak Tdt expression. VλJλ rearrangements but not VκJκ rearrangements were recovered from fetal liver at 30-50 DG. SJC were pronounced in bone marrow at 95 DG where VκJκ rearrangements were first recovered. The VλJλ rearrangements recovered at 20-50 DG used some of the same Vλ and Jλ segments seen in older fetuses and adult animals. Hence the textbook paradigm for the order of light-chain rearrangement does not apply to swine. Consistent with weak Tdt expression in early sites of lymphogenesis, N-region additions in VDJ rearrangements were more frequent at 95 DG. Junctional diversity in VλJλ rearrangement was limited at all stages of development. There was little evidence for B-cell lymphogenesis in the ileal Peyer's patches. The widespread recovery of VpreB transcripts in whole, non-lymphoid tissue was unexpected as was its recovery from bone marrow and peripheral blood monocytes. Based on recovery of SJC, B-cell lymphogenesis continues for at least 5 weeks postpartum.
GRP78, a master regulator of the unfolded protein response (UPR) and cell signaling, is required for inner cell mass survival during early embryonic development. However, little is known about its role in adult hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and hematopoiesis. Here we generated a conditional knockout mouse model that acutely deletes Grp78 in the adult hematopoietic system. Acute GRP78 ablation resulted in a significant reduction of HSCs, common lymphoid and myeloid progenitors, and lymphoid cell populations in the mutant mice. The GRP78-null induced reduction of the HSC pool could be attributed to increased apoptosis. Chimeric mice with Grp78 deletion only in the hematopoietic cells also showed a loss of HSCs and lymphopenia, suggesting a cell intrinsic effect. Analysis of GRP78 deficient bone marrow (BM) cells showed constitutive activation of all the major UPR signaling pathways, including activation of eIF2α, ATF6, xbp-1 splicing, as well as caspase activation. A multiplex cytokine assay further revealed alteration in select cytokine and chemokine serum levels in the mutant mice. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that GRP78 plays a pleiotropic role in BM cells and contributes to HSC survival and the maintenance of the lymphoid lineage.
BACKGROUND: Angiogenesis and lymphogenesis which were promoted by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF-C are important in the growth and metastasis of solid tumors. The high level of VEGF and VEGF-C were distributed in numerous types of cancers, but their distribution and expression in Wilms tumor, the most common pediatric tumor of the kidney, was unclear.METHODS: To learn about the distribution, mass spectroscopy and immunohistochemistry were used to measure the level of VEGF and VEGF-C in serum and tissue of Wilms tumor.RESULTS: The expression level of VEGF in serum of Wilms tumor was the same as in pre-surgery and control, so it was the same case of VEGF-C. Both of these factors were chiefly located in Wilms tumor tissue, but not in borderline and normal. In addition, the higher clinical staging and histopathologic grading were important elements in high expression of VEGF and VEGF-C. Gender, age and the size of tumor have not certainly been implicated in expression level of VEGF and VEGF-C.CONCLUSIONS: The lymph node metastasis and growth of tumors resulted from angiogenesis and lymphogenesis which were promoted by VEGF and VEGF-C in Wilms tumor. The autocrine and paracrine process of VEGF and VEGF-C were the principal contributor to specific tissues of Wilms tumor but not to the entire body.
The continuous ileal Peyer's patches (IPP) of sheep are regarded as a type of mammalian bursal equivalent where B cells diversify their repertoire in an Ag-independent fashion. Anatomically and developmentally similar IPP occur in swine. Resection of ∼90% of the IPP in piglets at birth did not alter Ig levels in serum and secretions or retard diversification of the Ab repertoire when animals were maintained in isolators and colonized with a defined gut flora. Resection or sham surgery elevated IgG and IgA in serum and in lavage fluid from the gut, lung, and in saliva. No changes in the frequency of IgG-, IgA-, and IgM-containing cells in the spleen and peripheral lymph node were observed. Using an index that quantifies diversification of the VDJ repertoire, no differences were seen in three secondary lymphoid tissues between piglets lacking IPP and colonized controls, whereas both groups displayed >10-fold greater diversification than did late-term fetal piglets or piglets maintained germ-free. Somatic hypermutation was very low in fetal IPP and the IPP of germ-free piglets but increased 3- to 5-fold after colonization. D-J signal joint circles were not recovered in IPP, and V-DJ signal joint circles were 5-fold lower than in bone marrow and similar to those in thymus and spleen. We conclude that the porcine IPP are not a site of B cell lymphogenesis, do not undergo Ag-independent repertoire diversification, and are not primary lymphoid tissue since they are not required for maintenance of Ig levels in serum and secretions.
Vascular anomalies are disorders of abnormal vasculogenesis or lymphogenesis. All types of vascular anomalies may involve the airway, causing varying degrees of upper airway obstruction as well as dysphagia and bleeding. Certain signs and symptoms may implicate airway involvement with a hemangioma or vascular malformation. It is necessary to distinguish a vascular anomaly from other airway lesions such as a congenital cyst. This is accomplished with imaging and endoscopy.
Talin1 is a key integrin coactivator. We investigated the roles of this cytoskeletal adaptor and its target integrins in B-cell lymphogenesis, differentiation, migration, and function. Using CD19 Cre-mediated depletion of talin1 selectively in B cells, we found that talin1 was not required for B-cell generation in the bone marrow or for the entry of immature B cells to the white pulp of the spleen. Loss of talin1 also did not affect B-cell maturation into follicular B cells but compromised differentiation of marginal zone B cells. Nevertheless, serum IgM and IgG levels remained normal. Ex vivo analysis of talin1-deficient spleen B cells indicated a necessary role for talin1 in LFA-1 and VLA-4 activation stimulated by canonical agonists, but not in B-cell chemotaxis. Consequently, talin1 null B splenocytes could not enter lymph nodes nor return to the bone marrow. Talin1 deficiency in B cells was also impaired in the humoral response to a T cell-dependent antigen. Collectively, these results indicate that talin1 is not required for follicular B-cell maturation in the spleen or homeostatic humoral immunity but is critical for integrin-dependent B lymphocyte emigration to lymph nodes and optimal immunity against T-dependent antigens.
Micro-ribonucleic acids (microRNAs) are small molecules containing 20-23 nucleotides. Despite their small size, it is likely that almost every cellular process is regulated by them. Moreover, aberrant microRNA expression has been involved in the development of various diseases, including cancer. Although many data are available about the role of microRNAs in various lymphoproliferative disorders, their impact on the development of acute lymphoblastic leukemia of T-cell progenitors is largely unknown. In this review, we present recent information about how specific microRNAs are expressed and regulated during malignant T-lymphopoiesis and about their role during normal hematopoiesis.
Comment in    J Thromb Haemost. 2012 Mar;10(3):484-6.
It has long been known that B cells produce autoantibodies and, thereby, contribute to the pathogenesis of many autoimmune diseases. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a prototypic systemic autoimmune disorder, is characterized by high-circulating autoantibody titers and immune-complex deposition that can trigger inflammatory damage in multiple organs/organ systems. Although the interest in B cells in SLE has historically focused on their autoantibody production, we now appreciate that B cells have multiple autoantibody-independent roles in SLE as well. B cells can efficiently present antigen and activate T cells, they can augment T cell activation through co-stimulatory interactions, and they can produce numerous cytokines which affect inflammation, lymphogenesis, and immune regulation. Not surprisingly, B cells have become attractive therapeutic targets in SLE. With these points in mind, this review will focus on the autoantibody-dependent and autoantibody-independent roles for B cells in SLE and on therapeutic approaches that target B cells.
Although complement lysis is frequently used for the purification of lymphocyte subpopulations in vitro, how lymphocytes escape complement attack in vivo has not been clearly delineated. Here, we show that conditional gene targeting of a murine membrane complement regulator Crry on thymocytes led to complement-dependent peripheral T-cell lymphopenia. Notably, despite evidence of hypersensitivity to complement attack, Crry-deficient T cells escaped complement injury and developed normally in the thymus, because of low intrathymic complement activity. Crry-deficient T cells were eliminated in the periphery by a C3- and macrophage-mediated but C5-independent mechanism. Thus, Crry is essential for mature T-cell survival in the periphery but not for lymphogenesis in the thymus. The observation that the thymus is a complement-privileged site may have implications for complement-based antitumor therapies.
B cells are recognized as main actors in the autoimmune process. Autoreactive B cells can arise in the bone marrow or in the periphery and, if not properly inhibited or eliminated, can lead to autoimmune diseases through several mechanisms: autoantibody production and immune complex formation, cytokine and chemokine synthesis, antigen presentation, T cell activation, and ectopic lymphogenesis. The availability of agents capable of depleting B cells (that is, anti-CD20 and anti-CD22 monoclonal antibodies) or targeting B cell survival factors (atacicept and belimumab) opens new perspectives in the treatment of diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, and multiple sclerosis.
B cells develop in bone marrow and undergo antigen-induced activation and terminal differentiation in germinal centres of secondary lymphoid organs. Each B cell is a clone which means that an individual B cell has a unique genetic code and produces only one type of antibody when stimulated by antigen being able to multiply itself and originate several B cells with the same antigen specificity (clonal selection theory). However their important role in adaptive immune responses is supported by the remarkable capacity of recognizing an unlimited array of antigens due to mechanisms of antibody diversity such as V(D)J recombination class switching and somatic hypermutation. B cells can also function as antigen presenting cells that can activate T cells improving the effectiveness of the immune response. Immune B cell tolerance surveillance through clonal deletion anergy and receptor editing is also necessary to avoid pathological conditions like autoimmune diseases. B cells can contribute to autoimmunity by autoantibody production cytokine synthesis antigen presentation T cell activation and ectopic lymphogenesis.
Tumor cell migration and metastasis are critically regulated by chemokines and their receptors. CC Chemokine Receptor 7 (CCR7) plays a critical role in mediating chemotactic and invasive responses in cancers. However, whether or not CCR7 is a desired target of cancer therapy needs further investigation in terms of its biodegradation and availability in vivo. In this study, we employed RNA interference technology to detect the in vitro effects of anti-CCR7 siRNAs on proliferation and invasiveness of SW620 cells. We also evaluated the ability of these siRNAs to inhibit the lymphogenesis and the lymph node metastasis in xenografted SW620 tumor mouse. The chemotaxis and invasion assay in the animal model showed that blocking CCR7 expression at the mRNA level by a siRNA impaired invasion of colon cancer cells and inhibited lymph node metastasis of colon cancer and lymphogenesis. Therefore, CCR7 might be a desired target for cancer therapy and novel drug development.
Multiple myeloma is a haematological malignency, characterized by clonal expansion of plasma cells. However, little is known about the cause of multiple myeloma. Cancer cells must avoid apoptosis to ensure unregulated tumour formation and growth. The highly conserved caspase cascade is essential to the regulation of the apoptotic pathway. To examine if five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in four caspase genes [CASP3 Ex8-280 C > A (rs6948), CASP3 Ex8 + 567 T > C (rs1049216), CASP8 Ex14-271 A > T (rs13113), CASP9 Ex5 + 32 G > A (rs1052576), CASP10 Ex3-171 A > G (rs39001150)] alter multiple myeloma risk, we conducted a population-based case-control study of women (128 cases; 516 controls) in Connecticut. Compared to individuals with the TT genotype of CASP3 Ex8 + 567 T > C, subjects with the CC genotype had a five-fold decreased risk of multiple myeloma (odds ratio (OR)(CC) = 0.2, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.0-1.0). Further, individuals with the AG and AA genotypes of CASP9 Ex5 + 32 G > A also experienced a decreased risk of multiple myeloma (OR(AG) = 0.8, 95% CI = 0.5-1.3; OR(AA) = 0.5, 95% CI = 0.3-0.9; p-trend = 0.02). While no previous study has evaluated the association between caspase genes and multiple myeloma, studies have found associations with lung, breast, esophageal, gastric, colorectal and cervical cancers. Our parallel study of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, which utilized the same controls, found strong evidence that caspase genes play a key role in lymphogenesis. The protective associations observed in two key caspase genes suggest that genetic variation in CASP genes may play an important role in the aetiology of multiple myeloma.
AIM: To investigate the distribution pattern of lymphatic vessels and microvessels in sporadic colorectal carcinoma (SCRC) and their relationship to metastasis and prognosis.METHODS: The lymphatic vessel density (LVD) and microvessel density (MVD) in tumor tissue obtained from 132 patients with primary SCRC, including 74 with metastases and 58 without metastases, were evaluated by immunohistochemistry using antibodies directed against D2-40 and von Willebrand factor (vWF).RESULTS: (1) The lymphatic vessels and microvessels at central portions of SCRC often had a reticular architecture with numerous tiny and ill-defined lumina, while those at tumor borders had large and open lumina. The LVD and MVD were both obviously higher in colorectal cancer patients with metastases than in those without (P < 0.001). (2) For each one lymphatic vessel increased, there was a 1.45-fold increase in the risk of metastasis in SCRC. The specificity and sensitivity of LVD in predicting metastasis or non-metastasis in SCRC were 71.62% and 56.90%, respectively, and the corresponding LVD was 5. For each one microvessel increased, there was a 1.11-fold increase in the risk of metastasis in SCRC. The specificity and sensitivity of MVD were 66.22% and 51.72%, respectively. (3) Double labeling immunohistochemistry showed D2-40 immunoreactivity to be specific for lymphatic vessels. (4) Univariate analysis indicated that high LVD, high MVD, as well as co-accounting of high LVD and high MVD were associated with patient's poor disease-free survival (Puni < 0.05); multivariate analysis indicated that co-accounting of LVD and MVD was an independent prognostic factor of colorectal cancer.CONCLUSION: D2-40 is a new specific antibody for lymphatic endothelial cells. Lymphogenesis and angiogenesis are commonly seen in SCRC, especially at tumor borders. The detection of LVD and MVD at tumor borders may be useful in predicting metastasis and prognosis in patients with SCRC, and, in particular, co-accounting of LVD and MVD might be a useful prognostic factor in SCRC.
Erratum in    Cancer Res. 2015 Jun 15;75(12):2580-1.
Epidemiologic studies have shown an inverse association between atopy and malignant lymphoma, but results are inconsistent. We investigated levels of IgE, before and after commencement of treatment, and evaluated lymphoma risk in relation to total and specific IgE levels. Serum levels of IgM, IgA, and IgG were also measured. We enrolled 467 newly diagnosed lymphoma cases and 544 hospital controls, matched for age, sex, and hospital. Lymphomas were histologically confirmed and categorized according to the WHO classification. Subjects provided blood for analysis of total and specific IgE levels, and total IgM, IgA, and IgG levels. Additional information was collected by interviewer-administered questionnaire. Controlling for age, sex, center, smoking status, and any treated asthma or eczema, we found that the overall risk of lymphoma was significantly lower in the high [odds ratio (OR), 0.39; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 0.28-0.54] and middle (OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.40-0.74) tertiles for total serum IgE compared with the low tertile. Specific IgE to common aeroallergens (defined as >or=0.35 kU/L) was also inversely associated with risk of lymphoma (OR, 0.67; 95% CI, 0.45-1.00). Lymphoma was associated with IgA and IgM but not IgG. Mean levels of all immunoglobulins were decreased with more advanced malignancy, and total serum IgE levels were lower before treatment. The data suggest that the low levels of immunoglobulins seen in a wide range of lymphoma cases is likely to be linked to a lymphogenesis process rather than resulting from a selective protection due to an atopic process. Long-term cohort studies may be fundamental to fully evaluate these associations.
Regulation of bone remodeling determines the levels of bone mass and its imbalance causes major skeletal diseases such as osteoporosis. A zinc finger protein, Schnurri-2 (SHN-2), was recently demonstrated to regulate bone morphogenetic protein-dependent adipogenesis and lymphogenesis. However, the role of SHN-2 in bone is not known. Here, we investigated the effects of Shn-2 deficiency on bone metabolism and cell function in Shn-2-null mice. Lack of SHN-2 expression reduced bone remodeling by suppressing both osteoblastic bone formation and osteoclastic bone resorption activities in vivo. Shn-2 deficiency suppressed osterix and osteocalcin expression as well as in vitro mineralization. Conversely, Shn-2 overexpression enhanced osteocalcin promoter activity and bone morphogenetic protein-dependent osteoblastic differentiation. Shn-2 deficiency suppressed Nfatc1 and c-fos expression leading to reduction of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive cell development in vivo as well as in the cultures of bone marrow cells. These studies demonstrate that SHN-2 regulates the activities of critical transcription factors required for normal bone remodeling.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510060, P.R. China.
Chromatin-remodeling complexes are biochemically diverse, functionally selective machines that regulate crucial aspects of DNA metabolism, including transcription and chromatin assembly. These complexes modulate histone-DNA interactions to affect nucleosome repositioning and disassembly, and histone variant exchange, thereby generating compositionally specialized chromatin. Recent studies have revealed precise mechanisms by which specific remodelers control the transition from proliferating progenitors to committed cells through a highly synchronized switch in transcriptional programs. This involves temporal and, often, signal-dependent gene-targeted interactions between individual remodelers and tissue-specific master proteins that regulate myogenesis, neurogenesis and lymphogenesis. Distinct remodelers have also been shown to direct self-renewal of different types of stem cells in response to particular microenvironments.
The Immunodeficiency, Centromeric region instability, Facial anomalies syndrome (ICF) is a rare autosomal recessive disease described in about 50 patients worldwide and characterized by immunodeficiency, although B cells are present, and by characteristic rearrangements in the vicinity of the centromeres (the juxtacentromeric heterochromatin) of chromosomes 1 and 16 and sometimes 9. Other variable symptoms of this probably under-diagnosed syndrome include mild facial dysmorphism, growth retardation, failure to thrive, and psychomotor retardation. Serum levels of IgG, IgM, IgE, and/or IgA are low, although the type of immunoglobulin deficiency is variable. Recurrent infections are the presenting symptom, usually in early childhood. ICF always involves limited hypomethylation of DNA and often arises from mutations in one of the DNA methyltransferase genes (DNMT3B). Much of this DNA hypomethylation is in 1qh, 9qh, and 16qh, regions that are the site of whole-arm deletions, chromatid and chromosome breaks, stretching (decondensation), and multiradial chromosome junctions in mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes. By an unknown mechanism, the DNMT3B deficiency that causes ICF interferes with lymphogenesis (at a step after class switching) or lymphocyte activation. With the identification of DNMT3B as the affected gene in a majority of ICF patients, prenatal diagnosis of ICF is possible. However, given the variety of DNMT3B mutations, a first-degree affected relative should first have both alleles of this gene sequenced. Treatment almost always includes regular infusions of immunoglobulins, mostly intravenously. Recently, bone marrow transplantation has been tried.
The autoimmune cascade that culminates in diabetes initiates within pancreatic lymph nodes (PLNs). Here, we show that developmentally controlled lymphogenesis establishes a preferential trafficking route from the gut to the PLN, where T cells can be activated by antigens drained from the peritoneum and the gastrointestinal tract. Furthermore, intestinal stress modifies the presentation of pancreatic self-antigens in PLNs. The convergence of endocrine and intestinal contents within PLNs has significant implications for type 1 diabetes and may help to explain the link between autoimmune pathogenesis and environmental provocation.
T- and B-cells are generated from hematopoietic stem cells through lymphoid intermediates. The interplay of intrinsic and extrinsic signals determines cell fate at the branch point for T- and B-cell lineages and at the post-commitment stage of lymphogenesis. The mature lymphocytes differentiate into effector/memory cells by antigen recognition, and those differentiation steps are also governed by a series of cell fate choices and survival signals, which allows cells to acquire distinct effector functions. The identification of the molecular details that dictate lymphocyte development and differentiation will improve understanding of acquired immune responses. Recent studies have revealed that Notch molecules, evolutionarily conserved transmembrane receptors, play key roles in lymphocyte development and differentiation. In this article, we review recent knowledge regarding the roles of Notch signaling in controlling both lymphocyte development and acquisition of effector functions.
Swine belong to the Order Artiodactyla and like mice and humans, express IgM, IgD, IgG, IgE and IgA antibodies but a larger number of IgG subclasses. Like rabbits and chickens, expressed V(H) genes belong to the ancestral V(H)3 family and only 5 comprise >80% of the pre-immune repertoire. Since they use primarily two D(H) segments and have a single J(H) like chickens, junctional diversity plays a relatively greater role in repertoire formation than in humans and mice. Proportional light chain usage surprisingly resembles that in humans and is therefore distinctly different from the predominant kappa chain usage (>90%) of lab rodents and predominant lambda chain usage in other ungulates (>90%). The pre-immune V(kappa) repertoire also appears restricted since >95% of V(kappa)J(kappa) rearrangements use only a few members of the IGKV2 family and only J(kappa)2. Two V(lambda) families (IGLV3 and IGLV8) are used in forming the pre-immune repertoire. Antibodies that do not utilize light chains as in camelids, or the lengthy CDR3 regions seen in cattle that use V(H)4 family genes, have not been reported in swine. B cell lymphogenesis first occurs in the yolk sac but early VDJ rearrangements differ from mice and humans in that nearly 100% are in-frame and N-region additions are already present. Swine possess ileal Peyers patches like sheep which may be important for antigen-independent B cell repertoire diversification. The presence of pro B-like cells in interlobular areas of thymus and mature B cells in the thymic medulla that have switched to especially IgA in early gestation, is so far unique among mammals. The offspring of swine are believed to receive no passive immunity in utero and are precosial. Thus, they are a useful model for studies on fetal-neonatal immunological development. The model has already shown that: (a) colonization of the gut is required for responsiveness to TD and TI-2 antigens, (b) responsiveness due to colonization depends on bacterial PAMPs and (c) some viral pathogens can interfere with the establishment of immune homeostasis in neonates. Studies on swine reinforce concerns that caution be used when paradigms arising from studies in one mammal are extrapolated to other mammals, even when similarities are predicted by taxonomy and phylogeny. Swine exemplify a situation in which evolutionary diversification of the immune system is not characteristic of an entire order or even of other related systems in the same species.
The developing porcine fetus offers an excellent opportunity for the study of lymphocyte development. Studies on B cell, alphabeta T cells and gammadelta T cells in the last decade have expanded our knowledge of lymphocyte development in pigs. These studies have revealed several interesting differences between swine, mice and humans. For example, porcine peripheral lymphocytes include CD4+CD8+ alphabeta T cells and an abundance of gammadelta T cells that may even prevail over the alphabeta population. There are numerous CD2- gammadelta T cells in the blood and a large number of CD8alphaalpha-bearing cells that include NK cells, conventional gammadelta and alphabeta T cells. All porcine B lymphocytes are CD25(lo) and sIgM+ B cells may differ in the expression of CD2 antigen. Unlike mice, porcine B cells appear approximately 2 weeks before T cells and progenitors undergo VDJH rearrangement at 20th day of gestation (DG20) in the yolk sac and DG30 in the fetal liver before consummating high level lymphogenesis in the bone marrow after DG45. Early B cells show an unexpectedly high proportion of in-frame rearrangements, undergo switch recombination in thymus on DG60 and use N-region insertion from the time of the earliest VDJ rearrangement. The genomic repertoire of VH, DH and JH genes is small compared to mice and humans and swine appear to depend on junctional diversity for the majority of their repertoire. The limited VH repertoire of swine contrasts sharply with the porcine TCRbeta repertoire, which is extensive, extraordinarily conserved and nearly identical to that in humans. Therefore, swine present an example of two highly related receptor systems that have diverged in the same species.
Combinatorial diversity is highly restricted during formation of the pre-immune heavy chain repertoire of swine, raising the question of whether the same is true for the pre-immune light chain repertoire. Before addressing this question, we first used competitive PCR to show that kappa and lambda light chains in swine are equally expressed in mature B cells similar to the situation in humans but alike that in other studied Ungulates. This justified efforts to examine the repertoire of both light chain types. These studies also revealed that lambda is preferentially expressed at sites of B cells lymphogenesis, perhaps because of the use of a surrogate light chain containing lambda5. Data are presented here on >100 VkappaJkappa-containing transcripts and approximately 180 genomic Vkappa genes to show that >90% of the pre-immune repertoire is generated from three subfamilies of IGKV2 genes and one of five Jkappa segments. The kappa locus contains >or=50 IGKV2 genes belonging to at least five subfamilies and an undetermined but perhaps equal number of IGKV1 genes. The porcine IGKV1 and IGKV2 genes share 87% sequence similarity with their human counterparts and Jkappa1 through Jkappa5 share sequence and organizational homology with those in sheep, horse, human and mouse. Swine have a single Ckappa gene. These findings contrast with those from rodents and primates but are reminiscent of those on the pre-immune heavy chain repertoire of swine in that it is generated using a relatively restricted number of gene segments. These restricted pre-immune repertoires may reflect the minimal exposure of the fetus to maternal factors and environmental antigens. The significance for swine immunology of characterizing the pre-immune repertoire is discussed.
DNA polymerase beta (Polbeta) has been implicated in base excision repair. Polbeta knockout mice exhibit apoptosis in postmitotic neuronal cells and die at birth. Also, mice deficient in nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ), a major pathway for DNA double-strand break repair, cause massive neuronal apoptosis. Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice have a mutation in the gene encoding DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs), the component of NHEJ, and exhibit defective lymphogenesis. To study the interaction between Polbeta and DNA-PKcs, we generated mice doubly deficient in Polbeta and DNA-PKcs. Polbeta(-/-)DNA-PKcs(scid/scid) embryos displayed greater developmental delay, more extensive neuronal apoptosis, and earlier lethality than Polbeta(-/-) and DNA-PKcs(scid/scid) embryos. Furthermore, to study the involvement of p53 in the phenotype, we generated Polbeta(-/-)DNA-PKcs(scid/scid)p53(-/-) triple-mutant mice. The mutants did not exhibit apoptosis but were lethal with defective neurulation at midgestation. These results suggest a genetic interaction between Polbeta and DNA-PKcs in embryogenesis and neurogenesis.
MALT lymphoma is usually described in association with Helicobacter pylori, HCV, HHV8, Campylobacter jejuni or in a setting of overreactive immunity. In HIV(+) patients, MALT lymphoma is most commonly described in children. We describe here an original case of HIV(+) MALT lymphoma with bronchial, conjuctival and laryngeal involvement for which a clinical and histopathological remission has been obtained with HAART alone. We conclude that HIV, as well as H. pylori, C. jejuni and HCV can target lymphogenesis in MALT lymphoma.
Small RNAs of 21-23 nucleotides are powerful regulators of gene expression and play essential roles in biological processes that include development, maintenance of genome stability, and viral adaptive defense mechanisms. Such small RNAs are simple in design yet rich in biology and have captivated the attention of biologists in many fields. This review discusses the potential roles of small RNAs in immune biology and speculates on their potential participation in lymphogenesis and antiviral mechanisms.
Homeobox genes comprise a nearly ubiquitous and highly conserved superfamily of developmental regulatory genes that encode transcription factors involved in the determination of axis and tissue identity. While homeobox gene expression has been well characterized in a variety of embryonic tissues, their expression has not been extensively studied in lymphoid progenitor cells or in sites of lymphogenesis. To examine homeobox gene expression in the developing thymus, we screened an embryonic day 13.5 thymus cDNA library by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using degenerate oligonucleotides within the highly conserved homeodomain region of eight homeobox gene families. The resulting PCR products were then cloned and sequenced. Transcripts for multiple Dlx family members and Lhx2 were repeatedly detected in this screen. Screening of embryonic day 16.5 and adult murine thymus and Thy1+ thymocytes was performed for selected members of these homeobox gene families. Transcripts encoding Lhx2, Lhx3, and Lhx9, as well as Dlx1 and Dlx2 were detected in both thymus and purified thymocytes. Dlx1 is a member of the distal-less homeobox gene family that has been shown to regulate embryonic craniofacial development. Significantly, Dlx1 is expressed in the third branchial arch, which contributes to the thymus. Although Dlx1 knockout mice did not display any obvious developmental defects in thymus or thymocyte development, the expression of these homeobox genes in neural crest derivatives suggests a possible role in cell migration and development that may overlap with other homeobox genes.
Dorsoventral patterning depends on the local concentrations of the morphogens. Twisted gastrulation (TSG) regulates the extracellular availability of a mesoderm inducer, bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP-4). However, TSG function in vivo is still unclear. We isolated a TSG cDNA as a secreted molecule from the mouse aorta-gonad-mesonephros region. Here we show that TSG-deficient mice were born healthy, but more than half of the neonatal pups showed severe growth retardation shortly after birth and displayed dwarfism with delayed endochondral ossification and lymphopenia, followed by death within a month. TSG-deficient thymus was atrophic, and phosphorylation of SMAD1 was augmented in the thymocytes, suggesting enhanced BMP-4 signaling in the thymus. Since BMP-4 promotes skeletogenesis and inhibits thymus development, our findings suggest that TSG acts as both a BMP-4 agonist in skeletogenesis and a BMP-4 antagonist in T-cell development. Although lymphopenia in TSG-deficient mice would partly be ascribed to systemic effects of runtiness and wasting, our findings may also provide a clue for understanding the pathogenesis of human dwarfism with combined immunodeficiency.
B cell lymphogenesis in mammals occurs in various tissues during development but it is generally accepted that it operates by the same mechanism in all tissues. We show that in swine, the frequency of in-frame (IF) VDJ rearrangements differs among yolk sac, fetal liver, spleen, early thymus, bone marrow, and late thymus. All VDJ rearrangements recovered and analyzed on the 20th day of gestation (DG20) from the yolk sac were 100% IF. Those recovered at DG30 in the fetal liver were >90% IF, and this predominance of cells with apparently a single IF rearrangement continued in all organs until approximately DG45, which corresponds to the time when lymphopoiesis begins in the bone marrow. Thereafter, the proportion of IF rearrangements drops to approximately 71%, i.e., the value predicted whether VDJ rearrangement is random and both chromosomes were involved. Unlike other tissues, VDJs recovered from thymus after DG50 display a pattern suggesting no selection for IF rearrangements. Regardless of differences in the proportion of IF rearrangements, we observed no significant age- or tissue-dependent changes in CDR3 diversity, N region additions, or other characteristics of fetal VDJs during ontogeny. These findings indicate there are multiple sites of B cell lymphogenesis in fetal piglets and differences in the frequency of productive VDJ rearrangements at various sites. We propose the latter to result from differential selection or a developmentally dependent change in the intrinsic mechanism of VDJ rearrangement.
CD44 is a widely expressed, plasma membrane protein. Many molecular forms of CD44 are possible as it is encoded by a gene with multiple exons that can be alternatively spliced and its deduced protein sequence contains numerous glycosylation sites. Through its role as an adhesion molecule, CD44 is involved in many and diverse biological processes, including angiogenesis, lymphogenesis, wound healing, inflammation, and cancer metastasis. We have developed a new panel of rat monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to murine CD44 by immunization with mouse lung endothelial cells (LEII cells). The antibodies were characterized using immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, competition binding, and cross Western blot experiments with MAb 133-13A, which recognizes CD44 expressed on tumor cells. The new MAbs recognize three distinct epitope groups. MAbs 531-2A and 531-32A compete for binding with the MAb 133-13A that was described previously. MAb 531-30A identifies a CD44 epitope found on low molecular weight forms expressed in vivo, while MAb 531-22A appears to recognize an epitope specific for endothelial cells. This novel panel of anti-CD44 antibodies has potential for investigating the role of CD44 in disease pathogenesis models in the mouse. They may be particularly useful for examining the role of endothelial cells in these models.
Hematopoietic activity of the swine has been documented in three phases during fetal ontogeny. The hematopoietic system develops first in the yolk sac, then in fetal liver and finally in the bone marrow. Using flow cytometry (FCM) and molecular biological techniques we show that B-cell lymphogenesis and the appearance of B cells follows a pattern. First, VDJ rearrangement occurs at the 20th day of gestation (DG20) in the yolk sac at a time when light chain transcription is absent. Next, B-cell lymphogenesis is detected at DG30 in the fetal liver. Thereafter, bone marrow becomes the major B lymphopoietic organ (DG45). In yolk sac and fetal liver, more than 90% of the VDJ rearrangements were in-frame but expression of micro heavy chain could not be clearly detected by FCM. However, cells with a putative phenotype of B-cell precursors are present. These cells express high levels of MHC class II (SLA-DR) and low levels of CD2 and CD25. CDR3 length analysis (spectratyping) indicates that the heavy chain repertoire is oligoclonal at this time with large inter-animal variations. Consistent with our earlier reports, fetal VDJ rearrangements are not mutated and there is no evidence for an age-dependent increase in TdT activity or a change in V(H) and D(H) usage from those used by B-cells formed in the yolk sac or fetal liver. However, our findings indicate major differences in the regulatory environment and/or selective pressures in yolk sac and fetal liver versus bone marrow. In contrast with the yolk sac and fetal liver, the proportion of in-frame VDJ rearrangements in the bone marrow correspond to a value indicative of random recombination.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Lymphatic flow and the incidence of lymph node metastasis in remnant stomach cancer after distal gastrectomy are obscure. There is consequent controversy about appropriate lymph node dissection in such cases.METHODOLOGY: Thirty-three consecutive patients with remnant stomach cancer and 44 consecutive patients primary gastric cancer in the upper third of the stomach were investigated retrospectively about lymphatic flow by injection of activated carbon particles, and about the incidence of lymph node metastasis.RESULTS: Lymphatic flow and the incidence of lymph node metastasis in remnant stomach cancer after distal gastrectomy without lymph node dissection were the same as those in primary gastric cancer in the upper third of the stomach. Lymphatic flow after distal gastrectomy with lymph node dissection frequently streamed toward the para-aortic lymph nodes through the lymph nodes along the greater curvature and the suprapancreatic lymph nodes. Lymphatic flow toward the jejunal and colonic mesentery was observed regardless of the method of reconstruction. This lymphogenesis was clearly observed, especially in patients with tumors invading the anastomosis site of Billroth-II reconstruction. Station Nos. 110 (lower paraesophageal) and 111 (supradiaphragmatic) lymph nodes were also stained, despite being considered sites of distant metastasis irrespective of the method of reconstruction.CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of the evidence of altered lymphatic flow and the incidence of lymph node metastases in remnant stomach cancer, left upper abdominal evisceration with para-aortic lymph node dissection should be performed in advanced remnant stomach cancer.
Author information:(1)Institut za onkologiju i radiologiju Srbije 11 000 Beograd, Pasterova 14. jelics@ncrc.ac.yu
Author information:(1)Institute of Molecular Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences, 123182 Moscow.
ICF (immunodeficiency, centromeric region instability and facial anomalies) is a recessive disease caused by mutations in the DNA methyltransferase 3B gene (DNMT3B). Patients have immunodeficiency, chromosome 1 (Chr1) and Chr16 pericentromeric anomalies in mitogen-stimulated lymphocytes, a small decrease in overall genomic 5-methylcytosine levels and much hypomethylation of Chr1 and Chr16 juxtacentromeric heterochromatin. Microarray expression analysis was done on B-cell lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) from ICF patients with diverse DNMT3B mutations and on control LCLs using oligonucleotide arrays for approximately 5600 different genes, 510 of which showed a lymphoid lineage-restricted expression pattern among several different lineages tested. A set of 32 genes had consistent and significant ICF-specific changes in RNA levels. Half of these genes play a role in immune function. ICF-specific increases in immunoglobulin (Ig) heavy constant mu and delta RNA and cell surface IgM and IgD and decreases in Ig(gamma) and Ig(alpha) RNA and surface IgG and IgA indicate inhibition of the later steps of lymphocyte maturation. ICF-specific increases were seen in RNA for RGS1, a B-cell specific inhibitor of G-protein signaling implicated in negative regulation of B-cell migration, and in RNA for the pro-apoptotic protein kinase C eta gene. ICF-associated decreases were observed in RNAs encoding proteins involved in activation, migration or survival of lymphoid cells, namely, transcription factor negative regulator ID3, the enhancer-binding MEF2C, the iron regulatory transferrin receptor, integrin beta7, the stress protein heme oxygenase and the lymphocyte-specific tumor necrosis factor receptor family members 7 and 17. No differences in promoter methylation were seen between ICF and normal LCLs for three ICF upregulated genes and one downregulated gene by a quantitative methylation assay [combined bisulfite restriction analysis (COBRA)]. Our data suggest that DNMT3B mutations in the ICF syndrome cause lymphogenesis-associated gene dysregulation by indirect effects on gene expression that interfere with normal lymphocyte signaling, maturation and migration.
Cyr61 is a heparin-binding, extracellular matrix-associated protein of the CCN family, which also includes connective tissue growth factor, Nov, WISP-1, WISP-2, and WISP-3. Cyr61 is capable of multiple functions, including induction of angiogenesis in vivo. Purified Cyr61 mediates cell adhesion and induces adhesive signaling, stimulates cell migration, enhances cell proliferation, and promotes cell survival in both fibroblasts and endothelial cells. In this study, we have used cDNA array hybridization to identify genes regulated by Cyr61 in primary human skin fibroblasts. The Cyr61-regulated genes fall into several groups known to participate in processes important for cutaneous wound healing, including: 1) angiogenesis and lymphogenesis (VEGF-A and VEGF-C); 2) inflammation (interleukin-1beta); 3) extracellular matrix remodeling (MMP1, MMP3, TIMP1, uPA, and PAI-1); and 4) cell-matrix interactions (Col1alpha1, Col1alpha2, and integrins alpha(3) and alpha(5)). Cyr61-mediated gene expression requires heparin binding activity of Cyr61, cellular de novo transcription, and protein synthesis and is largely dependent on the activation of p42/p44 MAPKs. Cyr61 regulates gene expression not only in serum-free medium but also in fibroblasts cultured on various matrix proteins or in the presence of 10% serum. These effects of Cyr61 can be sustained for at least 5 days, consistent with the time course of wound healing in vivo. Interestingly, Cyr61 can interact with transforming growth factor-beta1 to regulate expression of specific genes in an antagonistic, additive, or synergistic manner. Furthermore, we show that the Cyr61 gene is highly induced in dermal fibroblasts of granulation tissue during cutaneous wound repair. Together, these results show that Cyr61 is inducibly expressed in granulation tissues after wounding and that Cyr61 activates a genetic program for wound repair in skin fibroblasts. We propose a model in which Cyr61 integrates its activities on endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and macrophages to regulate the processes of angiogenesis, inflammation, and matrix remodeling in the context of cutaneous wound healing.
T-cell lymphomas are a biologically heterogeneous group of diseases with varying clinical presentations and outcomes. We tried to understand the effect of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) on lymphogenesis, prognostic factors and drug resistance of T-cell lymphomas, and to establish their relationship with international prognostic factors. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 35 patients (12 women and 23 men) with T-cell lymphomas were examined to detect the presence of EBV using RNA in situ hybridization for EBV-encoded small nuclear RNA (EBER) 1/2 and immunohistochemical stain for latent membrane protein (LMP)-1. We also tried to establish the expression of p53 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) using immunohistochemistry. The distribution according to the subgroup was: two T-lymphoblastic lymphomas, 13 NK/T-cell lymphomas, one angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma, 17 peripheral T-cell lymphomas, unspecified, and two anaplastic large cell lymphomas. The EBER was detected in 15 of 35 T-cell lymphomas (42.9%) and among these it was detected in five of 17 nodal lymphomas (29.4%) and 10 of 18 extranodal lymphomas (55.6%). There was close correlation between EBER positivity and NK/T-cell lymphoma (P = 0.032). Expression of LMP was found in a proportion of tumor cells in seven of the 15 EBER-positive cases (46.7%). There was no correlation between EBER expression and complete response (CR rate), but coexpression of EBER and p53 was associated with treatment failure (P = 0.047). The 18 patients (51.4%) with p53 expression had significantly poorer outcomes compared with the 17 patients without p53 expression (CR rate, P < 0.0005; overall survival, P = 0.0102). Twenty of 35 patients (57.1%) were positive for P-gp expression. P-gp expression was significantly associated with treatment failure (P = 0.001) and overall survival (P = 0.0089). Seventeen of 35 patients (48.6%) treated with systemic chemotherapy or radiation therapy achieved a CR after initial treatment. When the prognostic factors were grouped using the international prognostic index, the CR rate was 58.8% for the low risk group, 50.0% for the low-intermediate risk group, 14.3% for the high-intermediate risk group, and 0% for the high risk group. In conclusion, high incidence of EBV was detected among Korean patients with T-cell lymphomas. Our study supports the prediction that patients who express p53 and P-gp have a poorer prognosis than those who do not and this should be considered when treatment strategies for individual patients are selected.
DNA ligase IV (LIG4) is a nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) protein used for V(D)J recombination and DNA repair. In mice, Lig4 deficiency causes embryonic lethality, massive neuronal apoptosis, arrested lymphogenesis, and various cellular defects. Herein, we assess potential roles in this phenotype for INK4a/ARF and p53, two proteins implicated in apoptosis and senescence. INK4a/ARF deficiency rescued proliferation/senescence defects of Lig4-deficient fibroblasts but not other phenotypic aspects. In contrast, p53 deficiency rescued embryonic lethality, neuronal apoptosis, and fibroblast proliferation/senescence defects but not lymphocyte development or radiosensitivity. Young Lig4/p53 double null mice routinely died from pro-B lymphomas. Thus, in the context of Lig4 deficiency, embryonic lethality and neuronal apoptosis likely result from a p53-dependent response to unrepaired DNA damage, and neuronal apoptosis and lymphocyte developmental defects can be mechanistically dissociated.
XRCC4 was identified via a complementation cloning method that employed an ionizing radiation (IR)-sensitive hamster cell line. By gene-targeted mutation, we show that XRCC4 deficiency in primary murine cells causes growth defects, premature senescence, IR sensitivity, and inability to support V(D)J recombination. In mice, XRCC4 deficiency causes late embryonic lethality accompanied by defective lymphogenesis and defective neurogenesis manifested by extensive apoptotic death of newly generated postmitotic neuronal cells. We find similar neuronal developmental defects in embryos that lack DNA ligase IV, an XRCC4-associated protein. Our findings demonstrate that differentiating lymphocytes and neurons strictly require the XRCC4 and DNA ligase IV end-joining proteins and point to the general stage of neuronal development in which these proteins are necessary.
We crossed transgenic mice overexpressing the N-ras proto-oncogene (RasTg) with mice carrying one inactivated copy of the NF1 tumor suppressor gene (NF1+/-) to assess their possible cooperation in tumorigenesis. We have found a significant increase in the incidence of lymphomas in animals with both lesions (RasTg NF1+/-), as compared with animals with single lesions. The mechanism of this cooperation appears to be independent of the NF1 GTPase activating activity since the level of Ras-GTP in primary cultures of tumor tissue do not differ among animals with double and with single lesions. Nevertheless, the finding of significantly higher levels of Erk-1 and Erk-2 activation in lymphomas in the RasTg NF1+/- than in the RasTg group suggests that this cooperative effect may be in part explained by increased signaling through the Erk pathways. Consistent with a role for Erk activation in transformation is the additional observation that Erk-1 and Erk-2 activation is significantly increased in lymphomas as compared with normal spleen. This activation is likely to occur by phosphorylation of previously synthesized and inactive Erk proteins since, despite differences in activation, Erk-1 and Erk-2 expression is similar in normal and lymphoid tissue in all groups. The observed cooperation in in vivo lymphomagenesis between N-ras overexpression and NF1 inactivation emphasizes the importance of searching for additional functions for the NF1 protein and of intensifying the screening for NF1 mutations in human lymphomas.
Author information:(1)Service d'hématologie clinique, CHU Henri-Mondor, Créteil, France.
The B-cell lineage, the antibodies produced by these cells and the diversification of the antibody repertoire are essential for the health and survival of all mammals. Cattle, sheep, swine and horses, unlike rodents and primates, develop their antibody repertoire from a relatively small number of VH (variable heavy) genes of one or several families and cattle, sheep and horses use almost exclusively lambda-light chains. These large farm animals appear to use templated mutation (gene conversion) in addition to untemplated (point) mutation in repertoire development; this may occur predominantly in the ileal Peyer's patches. Whether B-cell lymphogenesis is continuous throughout life--as in rodents and primates--or whether B cells are largely of the B-1 lineage and develop only in foetal and neonatal life, is uncertain. The fact that immunoglobulin D (IgD) is totally absent from swine and ruminants may be significant, as IgD is expressed weakly on rodent B-1 cells. Information on IgG subclass diversity in large farm animals is incomplete, except for sheep and cattle, and no information is available for any large farm animal to show whether T helper 1 (Th1) and Th2 responses correlate with the expression of any subclass antibody response, as is the case in rodents. All large farm animals exclusively use the mammary gland to transfer immunity to offspring, although the receptor involved in the transport of IgG into colostrum and milk has not been characterised. Efforts to standardise the nomenclature and measurements of antibodies and immunoglobulins in large farm animals are discussed, and a proposal currently under review concerning the standardisation of the nomenclature for bovine immunoglobulins is presented as a model.
Antigen-driven somatic hypermutation in immunoglobulin genes coupled with stringent selection leads to affinity maturation in the B-lymphocyte populations present in germinal centers. To date, no gene(s) has been identified that drives the hypermutation process. The site-specific recombination of antigen-receptor gene segments in T and B lymphocytes is dependent on the expression of two recombination activating genes, RAG-1 and RAG-2. The RAG-1 and RAG-2 proteins are essential for the cleavage of DNA at highly conserved recombination signals to make double-strand breaks and their expression is sufficient to confer V(D)J recombination activity to non-lymphoid cells. Until very recently, expression of the V(D)J recombinase in adults was believed to be restricted to sites of primary lymphogenesis. However, several laboratories have now demonstrated expression of RAG-1 and RAG-2 and active V-to-(D)J recombination in germinal center B cells. This observation of active recombinase in germinal centers raises the issue of RAG-mediated nuclease activity as a component of V(D)J hypermutation. Here, we show that a transgenic kappa-light chain gene in a RAG-1-/- genetic background can acquire high frequencies of mutations. Thus, the RAG-1 protein is not essential for the machinery of immunoglobulin hypermutation. The genetic approaches to identifying the genes necessary for somatic hypermutation will require further studies on DNA-repair and immunodeficient models.
The Bcl6 gene has been identified from the chromosomal translocation breakpoint in B cell lymphomas, and its products are expressed highly in germinal center (GC) B cells. To investigate the function of Bcl6 in lymphocytes, we have generated RAG1-deficient mice reconstituted with bone marrow cells from Bcl6-deficient mice (Bcl6(-/-)RM). Lymphogenesis in primary lymphoid tissues of Bcl6(-/-)RM is normal, and Bcl6(-/-)RM produced control levels of primary IgG1 antibodies specific to T cell-dependent antigens. However, GCs were not found in these mice. This defect was mainly due to the abnormalities of B cells. Therefore, Bcl6 is essential for the differentiation of GC B cells.
Recombinant DNA technology has made it possible to comparatively examine the immunoglobulin (Ig) gene constitution of numerous species. These studies reveal that many species diverge from the pattern seen in rodents and primates while revealing a number of interesting correlations involving Ig gene organization, B-cell lymphogenesis and the mechanism of repertoire development; many of these fail to correlate with traditional phylogenetic relationships. These correlates pose new questions regarding repertoire developments, which suggest that considerable diversity exists in the process. These findings also allow new questions to emerge regarding the role of IgD, the size of the B-cell repertoire, and the role that antigen may or may not play in repertoire development. These issues are discussed with the intention of stimulating experimentation to test a number of speculative hypotheses regarding B-cell and repertoire development.
The creation of specific neuronal cell types within the developing brain is a critical and unsolved biological problem. Precedent from invertebrate development, and from vertebrate myogenesis and lymphogenesis, has established that cell specification often involves transcription factors that are expressed throughout the differentiation of a given cell type. In this study, we have identified in Zn2+ finger transcription factor RU49 as a definitive marker for the cerebellar granule neuron lineage. Thus, RU49 is expressed in the earliest granule cell progenitors at the rhombic lip as they separate from the ventricular zone of the neural tube to generate a secondary proliferative matrix, and it continues to be expressed in differentiating and mature granule neurons. Proliferating granule cell progenitors isolated from the rhombic lip at E14 or from the external germinal layer at P6 continue to express RU49 in vitro. Both the olfactory bulb and dentate gyrus granule cell lineages also express this factor as they are generated with the developing brain. RU49 binds a novel bipartite DNA-binding element in a manner consistent with chemical rules governing the DNA-binding specificity of this class of transcription factor. The novel biochemical properties of RU49 and its restricted expression within the three lineages of CNS granule neurons suggest that RU49 may play a critical role in their specification. Furthermore, these results raise the interesting possibility that the generation of these three neuronal populations to form displaced germinative zones within the developing brain may reflect their use of a common developmental mechanism involving RU49.
The expression of bcl-2 protein and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent membrane protein 1 (LMP-1) was investigated in 18 cases of lymphoma occurring in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). EBV small RNAs were detectable in tumour cells in all cases by in situ hybridization with EBER oligonucleotides. LMP-1 expression was detected in 61% of the cases, and 55% were positive for bcl-2. Dual expression of LMP-1 and bcl-2 was found in 8/18 (44%) cases, while five cases (28%) expressed either LMP-1 or bcl-2 and five expressed neither. Thus, there was an inconsistent relationship between the presence of EBV and the expression of bcl-2. One LMP-1 negative case was found to express bcl-2 in reactive lymphocytes but not in lymphoma cells. No clinical features were found to correlate statistically with LMP-1 or bcl-2 expression in the tumour cells. However, CD4 counts at diagnosis were significantly lower in bcl-2 positive cases (P < 0.05). The respective roles of EBV LMP-1 and the expression of bcl-2 in lymphogenesis in AIDS patients remains complex and is not yet fully understood.
An in vitro system for transforming immature lymphoid cells present in the thymus at early development has been established. By phenotype analysis of the transformants obtained, we observed that B cell precursors, susceptible to Abelson murine leukemia virus (A-MuLV)- or Harvey murine sarcoma virus (H-MuSV)-induced lymphogenesis, were present at high frequency in the fetal thymus of BALB/c mice. These precursors recolonized alymphoid thymus lobes in vitro, as do T cell precursors. It was further observed that B precursors in the fetal liver were also capable of recolonizing alymphoid thymus lobes and were stored in a thymic environment. These results suggest that stroma cells of the fetal thymus may possess the capacity to support the growth of B precursors. On the other hand, B cell precursors sensitive to the viral transformation were undetectable in the fetal thymus of C57BL/6, although immunohistochemical analysis suggested their presence. However, in the fetal liver of the same strain, B precursors recolonizing alymphoid thymus in vitro were sensitive to the viral transformation. Based on these results, we will discuss both the role and fate of thymic B precursors. In addition, we also obtained T cell lymphomas at different stages of differentiation from the fetal thymus of C57BL/6 infected with A-MuLV or H-MuSV. These data indicate the usefulness of our system in establishing cell lines derived from intrathymic lymphogenesis at early development.
