Tooth enamel is generated by ameloblasts. Any failure in amelogenesis results in defects in the enamel, a condition known as amelogenesis imperfecta. Here, we report that mice with deficient autophagy in epithelial-derived tissues (K14-Cre;Atg7F/F and K14-Cre;Atg3F/F conditional knockout mice) exhibit amelogenesis imperfecta. Micro-computed tomography imaging confirmed that enamel density and thickness were significantly reduced in the teeth of these mice. At the molecular level, ameloblast differentiation was compromised through ectopic accumulation and activation of NRF2, a specific substrate of autophagy. Through bioinformatic analyses, we identified Bcl11b, Dlx3, Klk4, Ltbp3, Nectin1, and Pax9 as candidate genes related to amelogenesis imperfecta and the NRF2-mediated pathway. To investigate the effects of the ectopic NRF2 pathway activation caused by the autophagy deficiency, we analyzed target gene expression and NRF2 binding to the promoter region of candidate target genes and found suppressed gene expression of Bcl11b, Dlx3, Klk4, and Nectin1 but not of Ltbp3 and Pax9. Taken together, our findings indicate that autophagy plays a crucial role in ameloblast differentiation and that its failure results in amelogenesis imperfecta through ectopic NRF2 activation.
The aim of this study was to characterize expression of corticogenesis-related transcription factors BCL11B and SATB2 after brain ischemic lesion in the adult mice, and to analyze their correlation to the subsequent brain recovery. Ischemic brain lesion was induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by reperfusion, and the animals with ischemic lesion were compared to the sham controls. Progression of the brain damage and subsequent recovery was longitudinally monitored structurally, by magnetic resonance imaging, and functionally, by neurological deficit assessment. Seven days after the ischemic injury the brains were isolated and analyzed by immunohistochemistry. The results showed higher expression in the brain of both, BCL11B and SATB2 in the animals with ischemic lesion compared to the sham controls. The co-expression of both markers, BCL11B and SATB2, increased in the ischemic brains, as well as the co-expression of BCL11B with the beneficial transcriptional factor ATF3 but not its co-expression with detrimental HDAC2. BCL11B was mainly implicated in the ipsilateral and SATB2 in the contralateral brain hemisphere, and their level in these regions correlated with the functional recovery rate. The results indicate that the reactivation of corticogenesis-related transcription factors BCL11B and SATB2 is beneficial after brain ischemic lesion.
Tremendous strides have been made in the molecular and cytogenetic classification of acute lymphoblastic leukemia based on gene expression profiling data, leading to an expansion of entities in the recent International Consensus Classification (ICC) of myeloid neoplasms and acute leukemias and 2022 WHO Classification of Tumours: Haematolymphoid Tumors, 5th edition. This increased diagnostic and therapeutic complexity can be overwhelming, and this review compares nomenclature differences between the ICC and WHO 5th edition publications, compiles key features of each entity, and provides a diagnostic algorithmic approach. In covering B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), we divided the entities into established (those present in the revised 4th edition WHO) and novel (those added to either the ICC or WHO 5th edition) groups. The established B-ALL entities include B-ALL with BCR::ABL1 fusion, BCR::ABL1-like features, KMT2A rearrangement, ETV6::RUNX1 rearrangement, high hyperdiploidy, hypodiploidy (focusing on near haploid and low hypodiploid), IGH::IL3 rearrangement, TCF3::PBX1 rearrangement, and iAMP21. The novel B-ALL entities include B-ALL with MYC rearrangement; DUX4 rearrangement; MEF2D rearrangement; ZNF384 or ZNF362 rearrangement, NUTM1 rearrangement; HLF rearrangement; UBTF::ATXN7L3/PAN3,CDX2; mutated IKZF1 N159Y; mutated PAX5 P80R; ETV6::RUNX1-like features; PAX5 alteration; mutated ZEB2 (p.H1038R)/IGH::CEBPE; ZNF384 rearranged-like; KMT2A-rearranged-like; and CRLF2 rearrangement (non-Ph-like). Classification of T-ALL is complex with some variability in how the subtypes are defined in recent literature. It was classified as early T-precursor lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma and T-ALL, NOS in the WHO revised 4th edition and WHO 5th edition. The ICC added an entity into early T-cell precursor ALL, BCL11B-activated, and also added provisional entities subclassified based on transcription factor families that are aberrantly activated.
The networks of transcription factors (TFs) that control intestinal-resident memory CD8+ T (TRM) cells, including multipotency and effector programs, are poorly understood. In this work, we investigated the role of the TF Bcl11b in TRM cells during infection with Listeria monocytogenes using mice with post-activation, conditional deletion of Bcl11b in CD8+ T cells. Conditional deletion of Bcl11b resulted in increased numbers of intestinal TRM cells and their precursors as well as decreased splenic effector and circulating memory cells and precursors. Loss of circulating memory cells was in part due to increased intestinal homing of Bcl11b-/- circulating precursors, with no major alterations in their programs. Bcl11b-/- TRM cells had altered transcriptional programs, with diminished expression of multipotent/multifunctional (MP/MF) program genes, including Tcf7, and up-regulation of the effector program genes, including Prdm1. Bcl11b also limits the expression of Ahr, another TF with a role in intestinal CD8+ TRM cell differentiation. Deregulation of TRM programs translated into a poor recall response despite TRM cell accumulation in the intestine. Reduced expression of MP/MF program genes in Bcl11b-/- TRM cells was linked to decreased chromatin accessibility and a reduction in activating histone marks at these loci. In contrast, the effector program genes displayed increased activating epigenetic status. These findings demonstrate that Bcl11b is a frontrunner in the tissue residency program of intestinal memory cells upstream of Tcf1 and Blimp1, promoting multipotency and restricting the effector program.
In vitro studies indicate the neurodevelopmental disorder gene myelin transcription factor 1-like (MYT1L) suppresses non-neuronal lineage genes during fibroblast-to-neuron direct differentiation. However, MYT1L's molecular and cellular functions in the adult mammalian brain have not been fully characterized. Here, we found that MYT1L loss leads to up-regulated deep layer (DL) gene expression, corresponding to an increased ratio of DL/UL neurons in the adult mouse cortex. To define potential mechanisms, we conducted Cleavage Under Targets & Release Using Nuclease (CUT&RUN) to map MYT1L binding targets and epigenetic changes following MYT1L loss in mouse developing cortex and adult prefrontal cortex (PFC). We found MYT1L mainly binds to open chromatin, but with different transcription factor co-occupancies between promoters and enhancers. Likewise, multiomic data set integration revealed that, at promoters, MYT1L loss does not change chromatin accessibility but increases H3K4me3 and H3K27ac, activating both a subset of earlier neuronal development genes as well as Bcl11b, a key regulator for DL neuron development. Meanwhile, we discovered that MYT1L normally represses the activity of neurogenic enhancers associated with neuronal migration and neuronal projection development by closing chromatin structures and promoting removal of active histone marks. Further, we showed that MYT1L interacts with HDAC2 and transcriptional repressor SIN3B in vivo, providing potential mechanisms underlying repressive effects on histone acetylation and gene expression. Overall, our findings provide a comprehensive map of MYT1L binding in vivo and mechanistic insights into how MYT1L loss leads to aberrant activation of earlier neuronal development programs in the adult mouse brain.
Posttranslational modification, such as phosphorylation, is an important biological event that modulates and diversifies protein function. Bcl11b protein is a zinc-finger transcription factor that plays a crucial role in early T cell development and the segregation of T cell subsets. Bcl11b possesses at least 25 serine/threonine (S/T) residues that can be phosphorylated upon TCR stimulation. To understand the physiological relevance of the phosphorylation on Bcl11b protein, we replaced S/T residues with alanine (A) by targeting murine Bcl11b gene in embryonic stem cells. By combinational targeting of exons 2 and 4 in the Bcl11b gene, we generated a mouse strain, Bcl11b-phosphorylation site mutation mice, in which 23 S/T residues were replaced with A residues. Such extensive manipulation left only five putative phosphorylated residues, two of which were specific for mutant protein, and resulted in reduced amounts of Bcl11b protein. However, primary T cell development in the thymus, as well as the maintenance of peripheral T cells, remained intact even after loss of major physiological phosphorylation. In addition, in vitro differentiation of CD4+ naive T cells into effector Th cell subsets-Th1, Th2, Th17, and regulatory T-was comparable between wild-type and Bcl11b-phosphorylation site mutation mice. These findings indicate that the physiological phosphorylation on major 23 S/T residues in Bcl11b is dispensable for Bcl11b functions in early T cell development and effector Th cell differentiation.
Monoallelic inactivation of CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) in human cancer drives altered methylated genomic states, altered CTCF occupancy at promoter and enhancer regions, and deregulated global gene expression. In patients with T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), we find that acquired monoallelic CTCF-inactivating events drive subtle and local genomic effects in nearly half of t(5; 14) (q35; q32.2) rearranged patients, especially when CTCF-binding sites are preserved in between the BCL11B enhancer and the TLX3 oncogene. These solitary intervening sites insulate TLX3 from the enhancer by inducing competitive looping to multiple binding sites near the TLX3 promoter. Reduced CTCF levels or deletion of the intervening CTCF site abrogates enhancer insulation by weakening competitive looping while favoring TLX3 promoter to BCL11B enhancer looping, which elevates oncogene expression levels and leukemia burden.
BACKGROUND: To identify potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of the early stage of sepsis.METHODS: The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between sepsis and control transcriptomes were screened from GSE65682 and GSE134347 datasets. The candidate biomarkers were identified by the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression and support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE) analyses. The diagnostic and prognostic abilities of the markers were evaluated by plotting receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and Kaplan-Meier survival curves. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and single-sample GSEA (ssGSEA) were performed to further elucidate the molecular mechanisms and immune-related processes. Finally, the potential biomarkers were validated in a septic mouse model by qRT-PCR and western blotting.RESULTS: Eleven DEGs were identified between the sepsis and control samples, including YOD1, GADD45A, BCL11B, IL1R2, UGCG, TLR5, S100A12, ITK, HP, CCR7 and C19orf59 (all AUC>0.9). Furthermore, the survival analysis identified YOD1, GADD45A, BCL11B and IL1R2 as the prognostic biomarkers of sepsis. According to GSEA, four DEGs were significantly associated with immune-related processes. In addition, ssGSEA demonstrated a significant difference in the enriched immune cell populations between the sepsis and control groups (all P < 0.05). Moreover, YOD1, GADD45A and IL1R2 were upregulated, and BCL11B was downregulated in the heart, liver, lungs, and kidneys of the septic mice model.CONCLUSIONS: We identified four potential immune-releated diagnostic and prognostic gene markers for sepsis that offer new insights into its underlying mechanisms.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are heterogeneous innate immune cells which participate in host defense, mucosal repair and immunopathology by producing effector cytokines similarly to their adaptive immune cell counterparts. The development of ILC1, 2, and 3 subsets is controlled by core transcription factors: T-bet, GATA3, and RORγt, respectively. ILCs can undergo plasticity and transdifferentiate to other ILC subsets in response to invading pathogens and changes in local tissue environment. Accumulating evidence suggests that the plasticity and the maintenance of ILC identity is controlled by a balance between these and additional transcription factors such as STATs, Batf, Ikaros, Runx3, c-Maf, Bcl11b, and Zbtb46, activated in response to lineage-guiding cytokines. However, how interplay between these transcription factors leads to ILC plasticity and the maintenance of ILC identity remains hypothetical. In this review, we discuss recent advances in understanding transcriptional regulation of ILCs in homeostatic and inflammatory conditions.
In contrast to mono- or biallelic loss of tumor-suppressor function, effects of discrete gene dysregulations, as caused by non-coding (epi)genome alterations, are poorly understood. Here, by perturbing the regulatory genome in mice, we uncover pervasive roles of subtle gene expression variation in cancer evolution. Genome-wide screens characterizing 1,450 tumors revealed that such quasi-insufficiency is extensive across entities and displays diverse context dependencies, such as distinct cell-of-origin associations in T-ALL subtypes. We compile catalogs of non-coding regions linked to quasi-insufficiency, show their enrichment with human cancer risk variants, and provide functional insights by engineering regulatory alterations in mice. As such, kilo-/megabase deletions in a Bcl11b-linked non-coding region triggered aggressive malignancies, with allele-specific tumor spectra reflecting gradual gene dysregulations through modular and cell-type-specific enhancer activities. Our study constitutes a first survey toward a systems-level understanding of quasi-insufficiency in cancer and gives multifaceted insights into tumor evolution and the tissue-specific effects of non-coding mutations.
Structural variants (SVs) involving enhancer hijacking can rewire chromatin topologies to cause oncogene activation in human cancers including hematologic malignancies; however, due to the lack of tools to assess their effects on gene regulation and chromatin organization, the molecular determinants for the functional output of enhancer hijacking remain poorly understood. Here, we developed a multimodal approach to integrate genome sequencing, chromosome conformation, chromatin state, and transcriptomic alteration for quantitative analysis of transcriptional effects and structural reorganization imposed by SVs in leukemic genomes. We identified known and new pathogenic SVs including recurrent t(5;14) translocations that cause the hijacking of BCL11B enhancers for the allele-specific activation of TLX3 in a subtype of pediatric leukemia. Epigenetic perturbation of SV-hijacked BCL11B enhancers impairs TLX3 transcription required for the growth of t(5;14) leukemia cells. By CRISPR engineering of patient-derived t(5;14) in isogenic leukemia cells, we uncovered a new mechanism whereby the transcriptional output of SV-induced BCL11B enhancer hijacking is dependent on the loss of DNA hypermethylation at the TLX3 promoter. Our results highlight the importance of the cooperation between genetic alteration and permissive chromatin as a critical determinant of SV-mediated oncogene activation, with implications for understanding aberrant gene transcription following epigenetic therapies in leukemia patients. Hence, leveraging the interdependency of genetic alteration on chromatin variation may provide new opportunities to reprogram gene regulation as targeted interventions in human disease.
To screen potential pivotal targets in sepsis through peripheral blood. Septic patients (n = 23) and healthy volunteers (n = 10) were enrolled according to SEPSIS 3.0. Peripheral blood was collected within 24 h of enrollment, RNA-seq was performed on the peripheral blood. The sequencing data was screened for DEGs (p < 0.01; logFC ≥ 2). PPI, WGCNA and survival curve analysis were used to identify potential targets. Then, 5 PBMC samples were conducted by single-cell sequencing for cell lineage location. Finally, mouse sepsis model and clinic samples were performed to verify the targets gene using RNA-seq and RT-PCR, respectively. Compared to the control group, 1007 DEGs were found in septic group. BCL9L, BCL11B, CD247, CD96, MAFG and SAMD3 were in the core of network. These six genes correlated to the survival rate of septic patients and they were mainly expressed in T cells, except that MAFG was located in monocyte cell. The expression levels of six key genes were confirmed by animal and clinical samples. BCL9L, BCL11B, CD247, CD96 and SAMD3 were decreased in sepsis and mainly expressed in the T cell; while MAFG increased in sepsis and localizes to monocytes. These genes may be therapeutic targets for sepsis.
Not available.
Muscle contractile activity stimulates intramuscular recruitment of immune cells including neutrophils emerging to serve as a prerequisite for exerting proper muscular performance, although the underlying mechanisms and their contributions to myokine upregulation remain ill-defined. We previously reported that pharmacological inhibition of CX3CR1, a fractalkine receptor, dampens gnawing-dependent neutrophil recruitment into masseter muscles along with compromising their masticatory activity. By using a running exercise model, we herein demonstrated that hindlimb muscles require collaborative actions of both CX3CR1- and CXCR2-mediated signals for achieving neutrophil recruitment, upregulation of myokines including interleukin (IL)-6, enhanced GLUT4 translocation, and adequate endurance capability. Mechanistically, we revealed that a combination of CX3CR1 and CXCR2 antagonists, i.e., AZD8797 and SB2205002, inhibits exercise-inducible ICAM-1 and fractalkine upregulations in the area of the endothelium and muscle-derived CXCL1 upregulation, both of which apparently contribute to the intramuscular neutrophil accumulation in working muscles. Intriguingly, we also observed that 2 h of running results in intramuscular augmentation of innate lymphoid type 2 cells (ILC2s) markers, i.e., Bcl11b mRNA levels and anti-GATA-3-antibody-positive signals, and that these effects are completely abolished by administration of the combination of CX3CR1 and CXCR2 antagonists. Taken together, our findings strongly suggest that the exercise-evoked regional interplay among working myofibers, the adjacent endothelium, and recruited immune cells including neutrophils and possibly ILC2s, mediated through these local factors, plays a key role in the organization of the intramuscular microenvironment supporting the performance of hindlimb muscles during running.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study provides compelling evidence that running-dependent intramuscular neutrophil recruitment requires both CX3CR1- and CXCR2-mediated signals that prime not only myofiber-derived myokine upregulations but also endothelium ICAM-1 and fractalkine expressions. The results revealed the importance of the exercise-evoked regional interplay among working myofibers, the adjacent endothelium, and recruited immune cells, including neutrophils and possibly ILC2s, which plays a key role in the organization of the intramuscular microenvironment supporting the performance of hindlimb muscles during running.
Vestibular schwannoma (VS) is the most common tumor of the cerebellopontine angle. Despite the increasing diagnosis of sporadic VS over the past decade, the use of traditional microsurgeries to treat VS has decreased. This is likely a result of the adoption of serial imaging as the most common initial evaluation and treatment strategy, especially for small-sized VS. However, the pathobiology of VSs remains unclear, and elucidating the genetic information of tumor tissue may reveal novel insights. The present study performed a comprehensive genomic analysis of all exons in the key tumor suppressor and oncogenes from 10 small (<15 mm) sporadic VS samples. The evaluations identified NF2, SYNE1, IRS2, APC, CIC, SDHC, BRAF, NUMA1, EXT2, HRAS, BCL11B, MAGI1, RNF123, NLRP1, ASXL1, ADAMTS20, TAF1L, XPC, DDB2 and ETS1 as mutated genes. The current study could not draw any new conclusions about the relationship between VS-related hearing loss and gene mutations; however, it did reveal that NF2 was the most frequently mutated gene in small sporadic VS.
BACKGROUND: B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) is a C2 H2 zinc finger transcription factor that has broad biological functions and is essential for the development of the immune system, neural system, cardiovascular system, dermis, and dentition. Variants of BCL11B have been found in patients with neurodevelopmental disorders and immunodeficiency.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and clinical examinations were performed to identify the etiology of our patient. A variant in the BCL11B gene, NM_138576.4: c.1206delG (p.Phe403Serfs*2) was found and led to frameshift truncation.RESULTS: We reported a male patient with developmental delay and cerebral palsy who carried the BCL11B variant. The detailed clinical features, such as brain structure and immune detection, were described and reviewed in comparison to previous patients.CONCLUSIONS: The BCL11B-related neurodevelopmental disorders are rare, and only 17 variants in 25 patients have been found to date. Our report expands the variants spectrum of BCL11B and increases the case of neurodevelopmental abnormalities.
Transcription factors (TFs) control numerous genes that are directly relevant to many human disorders. However, developing specific reagents targeting TFs within intact cells is challenging due to the presence of highly disordered regions within these proteins. Intracellular antibodies offer opportunities to probe protein function and validate therapeutic targets. Here, we describe the optimization of nanobodies specific for BCL11A, a validated target for the treatment of hemoglobin disorders. We obtained first-generation nanobodies directed to a region of BCL11A comprising zinc fingers 4 to 6 (ZF456) from a synthetic yeast surface display library, and employed error-prone mutagenesis, structural determination, and molecular modeling to enhance binding affinity. Engineered nanobodies recognized ZF6 and mediated targeted protein degradation (TPD) of BCL11A protein in erythroid cells, leading to the anticipated reactivation of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) expression. Evolved nanobodies distinguished BCL11A from its close paralog BCL11B, which shares an identical DNA-binding specificity. Given the ease of manipulation of nanobodies and their exquisite specificity, nanobody-mediated TPD of TFs should be suitable for dissecting regulatory relationships of TFs and gene targets and validating therapeutic potential of proteins of interest.
Erratum for    Clin Epigenetics. 2022 Nov 14;14(1):148.
Herein we described a retrospective analysis of a 13-year-old female patient with facial dysmorphia and immune disorder caused by BCL11B gene mutation. The patient upon physical examination presented a particular face (thin eyebrows, small mandible, and widened eye distance), delayed language and motor development. Supplementary examination showed expansion of CD8+, absence of type 2 Innate Lymphoid Cells, increased IgG and altered distribution of T cells. Genetic testing revealed a heterozygous frameshift variation in exon 4 of the BCL11B gene; c.1887_c.1893delCGGCGGG (p.Gly630Glyfs*91). Finally, a BCL11B gene mutation could lead to abnormal development of the nervous and immune systems, therefore, it is necessary to consider this syndrome in patients with the clinical and immunological phenotype described below.
We explored the potential link between RelA and BCL11B transcription factors. To this end, Jurkat and Raji cells (Jurkat:Raji 10:1), as well as normal human peripheral blood T cells, were activated by staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA) and the expressions of both BCL11B and RelA mRNA and proteins were detected. BCL11B small interfering RNA was then transduced into Jurkat cells. Under the effect of SEA stimulation, the expression of BCL11B and RelA mRNA increased in two types of T cell lines over time, and the results were comparable with the levels of expression of BCL11B and RelA proteins. In the BCL11B-knockdown cells, the expression of RelA protein did not increase. These findings suggest that BCL11B regulates RelA expression in Jurkat cells and human peripheral blood T cells from healthy donors via the T-cell receptor signaling pathway.
Spinal motor neurons (MNs) integrate sensory stimuli and brain commands to generate movements. In vertebrates, the molecular identities of the cardinal MN types such as those innervating limb versus trunk muscles are well elucidated. Yet the identities of finer subtypes within these cell populations that innervate individual muscle groups remain enigmatic. Here we investigate heterogeneity in mouse MNs using single-cell transcriptomics. Among limb-innervating MNs, we reveal a diverse neuropeptide code for delineating putative motor pool identities. Additionally, we uncover that axial MNs are subdivided into three molecularly distinct subtypes, defined by mediolaterally-biased Satb2, Nr2f2 or Bcl11b expression patterns with different axon guidance signatures. These three subtypes are present in chicken and human embryos, suggesting a conserved axial MN expression pattern across higher vertebrates. Overall, our study provides a molecular resource of spinal MN types and paves the way towards deciphering how neuronal subtypes evolved to accommodate vertebrate motor behaviors.
BACKGROUND: A dysregulated immune response is a hallmark of autoimmune disorders. Evidence suggests that systemic autoimmune diseases and primary immunodeficiency disorders (PIDs) may be similar diseases with different clinical phenotypes.OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the burden of PID-associated genetic variants in patients with childhood-onset systemic lupus erythematosus (cSLE).METHODS: We enrolled 118 cSLE patients regularly followed at Chang Gung Memorial Hospital. Targeted next-generation sequencing identified PID genetic variants in patients versus 1475 unrelated healthy individuals, which were further filtered by allelic frequency and various functional scores. Customized immune assays tested the functions of the identified variants.RESULTS: On filtration, 36 patients (30.5%) harbored rare variants in PID-associated genes predicted to be damaging. One homozygous TREX1 (c.294dupA) mutation and 4 heterozygous variants with possible dominant PID traits, including BCL11B (c.G1040T), NFKB1 (c.T695G), and NFKB2 (c.G1210A, c.G1651A), were discovered. With recessive traits, variants were found across all PID types; one fifth involved phagocyte number or function defects. Predicted pathogenic PID variants were more predominant in those with a family history of lupus, regardless of infection susceptibility. Moreover, mutation loads were greater among cSLE patients than controls despite sex or age at disease onset. While greater mutation loads were observed among cSLE patients with peripubertal disease onset, no significant differences in sex or phenotype were noted among cSLE patients.CONCLUSION: cSLE is mostly not monogenic. Gene-specific analysis and mutation load investigations suggested that rare and predicted damaging variants in PID-related genes can potentially contribute to cSLE susceptibility.
Multisuture craniosynostosis is associated with a number of syndromes and underlying gene mutations. It is rarely caused by chromosome disorders. For the management, multisuture craniosynostosis raises concerns about abnormal head shape and risks of increased intracranial pressure in affected patients. Calvarial reconstruction to reshape the skull shape and expand the intracranial volume plays an essential role in correcting particular problems. Here, we report a 2-month-old female infant presenting with low birth weight, abnormal head shape, dysmorphic facies and pinnae, hypotonia, and feeding difficulty. Three-dimensional computed tomographic scans revealed left unicoronal and sagittal synostoses. Chromosome microarray analysis revealed de novo chromosome 14q32.12-q32.31 deletion. Among the deleted genes, YY1 and BCL11B are the most likely candidate genes causing craniosynostosis. Some clinical features of the patient are similar to Temple syndrome indicating that the deleted region is paternal in origin. In summary, this is a rare case of chromosome 14q32 deletion with multisuture craniosynostosis. We also report the multidisciplinary management and clinical outcomes after early cranial vault remodelling procedures.
BCL11B, an essential transcription factor for thymopoiesis, regulates also vital processes in post-thymic lymphocytes. Increased expression of BCL11B was recently correlated with the maturation of NK cells, whereas reduced BCL11B levels were observed in native and induced T cell subsets displaying NK cell features. We show that BCL11B-depleted CD8+ T cells stimulated with IL-15 acquired remarkable innate characteristics. These induced innate CD8+ (iiT8) cells expressed multiple innate receptors like NKp30, CD161, and CD16 as well as factors regulating migration and tissue homing while maintaining their T cell phenotype. The iiT8 cells effectively killed leukemic cells spontaneously and neuroblastoma spheroids in the presence of a tumor-specific monoclonal antibody mediated by CD16 receptor activation. These iiT8 cells integrate the innate natural killer cell activity with adaptive T cell longevity, promising an interesting therapeutic potential. Our study demonstrates that innate T cells, albeit of limited clinical applicability given their low frequency, can be efficiently generated from peripheral blood and applied for adoptive transfer, CAR therapy, or combined with therapeutic antibodies.
Intellectual developmental disorder with dysmorphic facies, speech delay, and T-cell abnormalities (MIM # 618092) is a congenital disorder derived from pathogenic variants of the B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B gene (BCL11B). Several variants have been reported to date. Here, through comprehensive genomic analysis, a novel BCL11B truncation variant, NM_138576.4(BCL11B_v001): c.2439_2452dup [p.(His818Argfs*31)], was identified in a Japanese male patient with developmental delay, distinctive features, and early craniosynostosis.
The development of innate lymphoid cell (ILC) transcription factor reporter mice has shown a previously unexpected complexity in ILC hematopoiesis. Using novel polychromic mice to achieve higher phenotypic resolution, we have characterized bone marrow progenitors that are committed to the group 1 ILC lineage. These common ILC1/NK cell progenitors (ILC1/NKP), which we call "aceNKPs", are defined as lineage-Id2+IL-7Rα+CD25-α4β7-NKG2A/C/E+Bcl11b-. In vitro, aceNKPs differentiate into group 1 ILCs, including NK-like cells that express Eomes without the requirement for IL-15, and produce IFN-γ and perforin upon IL-15 stimulation. Following reconstitution of Rag2-/-Il2rg-/- hosts, aceNKPs give rise to a spectrum of mature ILC1/NK cells (regardless of their tissue location) that cannot be clearly segregated into the traditional ILC1 and NK subsets, suggesting that group 1 ILCs constitute a dynamic continuum of ILCs that can develop from a common progenitor. In addition, aceNKP-derived ILC1/NK cells effectively ameliorate tumor burden in a model of lung metastasis, where they acquired a cytotoxic NK cell phenotype. Our results identify the primary ILC1/NK progenitor that lacks ILC2 or ILC3 potential and is strictly committed to ILC1/NK cell production irrespective of tissue homing.
The updated International Consensus Classification (ICC) of B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and T-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) includes both revisions to subtypes previously outlined in the 2016 WHO classification and several newly described entities. The ICC classification incorporates recent clinical, cytogenetic, and molecular data, with a particular emphasis on whole transcriptome analysis and gene expression (GEX) clustering studies. B-ALL classification is modified to further subclassify BCR::ABL1-positive B-ALL and hypodiploid B-ALL. Additionally, nine new categories of B-ALL are defined, including seven that contain distinguishing gene rearrangements, as well as two new categories that are characterized by a specific single gene mutation. Four provisional entities are also included in the updated B-ALL classification, although definitive identification of these subtypes requires GEX studies. T-ALL classification is also updated to incorporate BCL11B-activating rearrangements into early T-precursor (ETP) ALL taxonomy. Additionally, eight new provisional entities are added to the T-ALL subclassification. The clinical implications of the new entities are discussed, as are practical approaches to the use of different technologies in diagnosis. The enhanced specificity of the new classification will allow for improved risk stratification and optimized treatment plans for patients with ALL.
By dissecting and comparing the transcriptional trajectories and epigenomic traits of reprogramming and transforming cells at the single-cell resolution, Huyghe et al discovered Bcl11b and Atoh8, two key transcription factors controlling cell plasticity during pluripotent reprogramming and oncogenic transformation.
Erratum in    Clin Epigenetics. 2023 Jan 6;15(1):3.
MHC class I-related protein 1 (MR1) is a metabolite-presenting molecule that restricts MR1-reactive T cells including mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells. In contrast to MAIT cells, the function of other MR1-restricted T cell subsets is largely unknown. Here, we report that mice in which a T cell-specific transcription factor, B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 11B (Bcl11b), was ablated in immature thymocytes (Bcl11b∆iThy mice) develop chronic inflammation. Bcl11b∆iThy mice lack conventional T cells and MAIT cells, whereas CD4+IL-18R+ αβ T cells expressing skewed Traj33 (Jα33)+ T cell receptors (TCR) accumulate in the periphery, which are necessary and sufficient for the pathogenesis. The disorders observed in Bcl11b∆iThy mice are ameliorated by MR1-deficiency, transfer of conventional T cells, or germ-free conditions. We further show the crystal structure of the TCR expressed by Traj33+ T cells expanded in Bcl11b∆iThy mice. Overall, we establish that MR1-reactive T cells have pathogenic potential.
The dysregulation of striatal gene expression and function is linked to multiple diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD), Parkinson's disease, X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism (XDP), addiction, autism, and schizophrenia. Striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) make up 90% of the neurons in the striatum and are critical to motor control. The transcription factor, Bcl11b (also known as Ctip2), is required for striatal development, but the function of Bcl11b in adult MSNs in vivo has not been investigated. We conditionally deleted Bcl11b specifically in postnatal MSNs and performed a transcriptomic and behavioral analysis on these mice. Multiple enrichment analyses showed that the D9-Cre-Bcl11btm1.1Leid transcriptional profile was similar to the HD gene expression in mouse and human data sets. A Gene Ontology enrichment analysis linked D9-Cre-Bcl11btm1.1Leid to calcium, synapse organization, specifically including the dopaminergic synapse, protein dephosphorylation, and HDAC-signaling, commonly dysregulated pathways in HD. D9-Cre-Bcl11btm1.1Leid mice had decreased DARPP-32/Ppp1r1b in MSNs and behavioral deficits, demonstrating the dysregulation of a subtype of the dopamine D2 receptor expressing MSNs. Finally, in human HD isogenic MSNs, the mislocalization of BCL11B into nuclear aggregates points to a mechanism for BCL11B loss of function in HD. Our results suggest that BCL11B is important for the function and maintenance of mature MSNs and Bcl11b loss of function drives, in part, the transcriptomic and functional changes in HD.
Craniosynostosis is a premature fusion of cranial sutures, resulting in abnormally shaped skull and brain development disorder. The description of craniosynostosis in patients with BCL11B mutations is rare. Here, we firstly report a 25-month-old Chinese boy with a novel frameshift variant in BCL11B gene. The patient was identified c.2346_2361del by whole-exome sequencing and was confirmed to be de novo by parental Sanger sequencing. This patient presented clinical phenotype of craniosynostosis as well as global developmental delay. He had a small mouth, thin upper lip, arched eyebrows, a long philtrum, midfacial hypoplasia and craniosynostosis. Brain MRI showed brain extracerebral interval and myelination changes, and brain CT with 3D reconstruction showed multi-craniosynostosis. Our study expands the clinical phenotypes of patients with BCL11B gene mutation, and our findings may help guide clinical treatment and family genetic counseling.
BACKGROUND: Despite the irruption of massive sequencing technologies in clinical routine, the genetic diagnosis of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) continues to be based on traditional techniques. The integration of old and new technologies with diagnostic and prognostic purposes represents a major challenge.METHODS: A High-Throughput Sequencing (HTS) approach was applied to analyze the genetic landscape of two patients diagnosed with T-ALL and one early T cell precursor acute leukemia. Orthogonal standard techniques were used to confirm the findings of NGS analysis.RESULTS: By using a single test, a complete genetic map including 2 previously unreported missense mutations in BCL11B gene are reported. Cooperating oncogenic lesions including CDKN2A/B deletions, SIL-TAL1 rearrangement and FLT3 amplification were also captured by using a single test.CONCLUSIONS: HTS is a useful approach that allows simultaneously analyzing mutations, CNVs and the clonal repertoire in T-ALL patients. This approach may simplify the genetic assessment of ALL.
Mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) is a subtype of leukemia in which lymphoid and myeloid markers are co-expressed. Knowledge regarding the genetic features of MPAL is lacking due to its rarity and heterogeneity. Here, we applied an integrated genomic and transcriptomic approach to explore the molecular characteristics of 176 adult patients with MPAL, including 86 patients with T-lymphoid/myeloid MPAL (T/My MPAL-NOS), 42 with Ph+ MPAL, 36 with B-lymphoid/myeloid MPAL (B/My MPAL-NOS), 4 with t(v;11q23), and 8 with MPAL, NOS, rare types. Genetically, T/My MPAL-NOS was similar to B/T MPAL-NOS but differed from Ph+ MPAL and B/My MPAL-NOS. T/My MPAL-NOS exhibited higher CEBPA, DNMT3A, and NOTCH1 mutations. Ph+ MPAL demonstrated higher RUNX1 mutations. B/T MPAL-NOS showed higher NOTCH1 mutations. By integrating next-generation sequencing and RNA sequencing data of 89 MPAL patients, we defined eight molecular subgroups (G1-G8) with distinct mutational and gene expression characteristics. G1 was associated with CEBPA mutations, G2 and G3 with NOTCH1 mutations, G4 with BCL11B rearrangement and FLT3 mutations, G5 and G8 with BCR::ABL1 fusion, G6 with KMT2A rearrangement/KMT2A rearrangement-like features, and G7 with ZNF384 rearrangement/ZNF384 rearrangement-like characteristics. Subsequently, we analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data from five patients. Groups G1, G2, G3, and G4 exhibited overexpression of hematopoietic stem cell disease-like and common myeloid progenitor disease-like signatures, G5 and G6 had high expression of granulocyte-monocyte progenitor disease-like and monocyte disease-like signatures, and G7 and G8 had common lymphoid progenitor disease-like signatures. Collectively, our findings indicate that integrative genomic and transcriptomic profiling may facilitate more precise diagnosis and develop better treatment options for MPAL.
T cell immune dysfunction is a prominent characteristic of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and the main cause of failure for immunotherapy and multi-drug resistance. There remains a lack of specific biomarkers for evaluating T cell immune status with outcome for CLL patients. T cell factor 1 (TCF1, encoded by the TCF7 gene) can be used as a critical determinant of successful anti-tumor immunotherapy and a prognostic indicator in some solid tumors; however, the effects of TCF1 in CLL remain unclear. Here, we first analyzed the biological processes and functions of TCF1 and co-expressing genes using the GEO and STRING databases with the online tools Venny, Circos, and Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery (DAVID). Then the expression and prognostic values of TCF1 and its partner gene B cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) were explored for 505 CLL patients from 6 datasets and validated with 50 CLL patients from Henan cancer hospital (HNCH). TCF1 was downregulated in CLL patients, particularly in CD8+ T cells, which was significantly correlated with poor time-to-first treatment (TTFT) and overall survival (OS) as well as short restricted mean survival time (RMST). Function and pathway enrichment analysis revealed that TCF1 was positively correlated with BCL11B, which is involved in regulating the activation and differentiation of T cells in CLL patients. Intriguingly, BCL11B was highly consistent with TCF1 in its decreased expression and prediction of poor prognosis. More importantly, the combination of TCF1 and BCL11B could more accurately assess prognosis than either alone. Additionally, decreased TCF1 and BCL11B expression serves as an independent risk factor for rapid disease progression, coinciding with high-risk indicators, including unmutated IGHV, TP53 alteration, and advanced disease. Altogether, this study demonstrates that decreased TCF1 and BCL11B expression is significantly correlated with poor prognosis, which may be due to decreased TCF1+CD8+ T cells, impairing the effector CD8+ T cell differentiation regulated by TCF1/BCL11B.
Background: T cells play critical roles in the progression of tuberculosis (TB); however, knowledge regarding these molecular mechanisms remains inadequate. This study constructed a critical ceRNA network was constructed to identify the potentially important role of TB activation via T-cell regulation. Methods: We performed integrated bioinformatics analysis in a randomly selected training set from the GSE37250 dataset. After estimating the abundance of 18 types of T cells using ImmuCellAI, critical T-cell subsets were determined by their diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing active from latent TB. We then identified the critical genes associated with T-cell subsets in TB activation through co-expression analysis and PPI network prediction. Then, the ceRNA network was constructed based on RNA complementarity detection on the DIANA-LncBase and mirDIP platform. The gene biomarkers included in the ceRNA network were lncRNA, miRNA, and targeting mRNA. We then applied an elastic net regression model to develop a diagnostic classifier to assess the significance of the gene biomarkers in clinical applications. Internal and external validations were performed to assess the repeatability and generalizability. Results: We identified CD4+ T, Tr1, nTreg, iTreg, and Tfh as T cells critical for TB activation. A ceRNA network mediated by the MIR600HG/hsa-mir-21-5p axis was constructed, in which the significant gene cluster regulated the critical T subsets in TB activation. MIR600HG, hsa-mir-21-5p, and five targeting mRNAs (BCL11B, ETS1, EPHA4, KLF12, and KMT2A) were identified as gene biomarkers. The elastic net diagnostic classifier accurately distinguished active TB from latent. The validation analysis confirmed that our findings had high generalizability in different host background cases. Conclusion: The findings of this study provided novel insight into the underlying mechanisms of TB activation and identifying prospective biomarkers for clinical applications.
Comment on    Eur J Med Genet. 2020 Sep;63(9):104007.
OBJECTIVE: According to a recent report, the mutation of transcription factor gene BCL11B is associated with the development of neurodevelopmental disorders and immune deficiency. By analyzing both clinical features and genetic variations, this study aims to reveal the genetic etiology of four patients with neurodevelopmental disorders from two unrelated Chinese pedigrees.METHODS: From the 4 cases, the clinical data were collected. The potential pathogenic gene variations were analyzed by means of based-trio whole exome sequencing (Trio-WES) and then validated through Sanger sequencing in their respective pedigrees. Furthermore, both the in vitro minigene assay and the NMD assay were performed to evaluate the impact of splicing and frameshift variants.RESULTS: The 4 patients displayed mild-to-severe intellectual developmental disorder, which was accompanied by speech delay, dysmorphic facies, and serious caries. In addition, the extended phenotype of developmental regression was observed in the proband from Family 1, which has been unreported previously. Molecular analysis was conducted to identify two novel heterozygous variants in the BCL11B gene: a maternal splicing variant c.427 + 1G > A in Family 1 and a de novo frameshift variant c.2461_2462insGAGCCACACCGGCG (p.Glu821Glyfs*28) in Family 2. As revealed by the in vitro minigene assay, the c.427 + 1G > A variant activated a new cryptic splice site. As confirmed by an overexpression assay, there was no significant difference in the level of mRNA and protein expression between the mutate-BCL11B (p.Glu821Glyfs*28) and the wild type. It confirms that p.Glu821Glyfs*28 variant could be an NMD escaping variant.CONCLUSION: The extended phenotype of BCL11B-related disorders is reported in this study to reveal the clinical and genetic heterogeneity of the disease. The study starts by identifying a splicing variant and a novel frameshift variant of the BCL11B gene, thus confirming its aberrant translation. The findings of this study expand the mutation spectrum of the genetic BCL11B gene, which not only improves the understanding of the associated neurodevelopmental disorders from a clinical perspective but also provides guidance on diagnosis and genetic counseling for patients.
Individuals who are hypertensive have a higher tendency of predisposition to other genetic diseases including purine metabolism deficiency. Therefore, the search for nontoxic and effective chemo protective agents to abrogate hypertension-mediated genetic disease is vital. This study therefore investigated the repressive effect of naringin (NAR) against disorder of hippocampus facilitated by hypertension in purine metabolism deficiency. Male albino rats randomly assigned into nine groups (n = 7) were treated for 35 days. Group I: control animals, Group II was treated with 100 mg/kg KBrO3, Group III was treated with 250 mg/kg caffeine, and Group IV was treated with 100 mg/kg KBrO3 + 250 mg/kg caffeine. Group V was administered with 100 mg/kg KBrO3 + 100 mg/kg haloperidol. Group VI was administered with 100 mg/kg KBrO3 + 50 mg/kg NAR. Group VII was administered with 250 mg/kg caffeine + 50 mg/kg NAR, and Group VIII was administered with 100 mg/kg KBrO3 + 250 mg/kg caffeine + 50 mg/kg NAR. Finally, group IX was treated with 50 mg/kg NAR. The sub-acute exposure to KBrO3 and CAF induced hypertension and mediated impairment in the hippocampus cells. This was apparent by the increase in PDE-51, arginase, and enzymes of ATP hydrolysis (ATPase and AMPase) with a simultaneous increase in cholinergic (AChE and BuChE) and adenosinergic (ADA) enzymes. The hypertensive-mediated hippocampal impairment was associated to alteration of NO and AC signaling coupled with lower expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and its receptor (BDNF-TrkB), down regulation of Bcl11b and DARPP-32 which are neurodevelopmental proteins, and hypoxanthine accumulation. However, these features of CAF-mediated hippocampal damage in KBrO3-induced hypertensive rats were repressed by post-treatment with NAR via production of neuro-inflammatory mediators, attenuation of biochemical alterations, stabilizing neurotransmitter enzymes, regulating NOS/cAMP/PKA and DARPP-32, BDNF/TrkB signaling, and restoring hippocampal tissues.
Coordinated changes of cellular plasticity and identity are critical for pluripotent reprogramming and oncogenic transformation. However, the sequences of events that orchestrate these intermingled modifications have never been comparatively dissected. Here, we deconvolute the cellular trajectories of reprogramming (via Oct4/Sox2/Klf4/c-Myc) and transformation (via Ras/c-Myc) at the single-cell resolution and reveal how the two processes intersect before they bifurcate. This approach led us to identify the transcription factor Bcl11b as a broad-range regulator of cell fate changes, as well as a pertinent marker to capture early cellular intermediates that emerge simultaneously during reprogramming and transformation. Multiomics characterization of these intermediates unveiled a c-Myc/Atoh8/Sfrp1 regulatory axis that constrains reprogramming, transformation and transdifferentiation. Mechanistically, we found that Atoh8 restrains cellular plasticity, independent of cellular identity, by binding a specific enhancer network. This study provides insights into the partitioned control of cellular plasticity and identity for both regenerative and cancer biology.
In the developing nervous system, neural stem cells (NSCs) use temporal patterning to generate a wide variety of different neuronal subtypes. In Drosophila, the temporal transcription factors, Hunchback, Kruppel, Pdm and Castor, are sequentially expressed by NSCs to regulate temporal identity during neurogenesis. Here, we identify a new temporal transcription factor that regulates the transition from the Pdm to Castor temporal windows. This factor, which we call Chronophage (or 'time-eater'), is homologous to mammalian CTIP1 (Bcl11a) and CTIP2 (Bcl11b). We show that Chronophage binds upstream of the castor gene and regulates its expression. Consistent with Chronophage promoting a temporal switch, chronophage mutants generate an excess of Pdm-specified neurons and are delayed in generating neurons associated with the Castor temporal window. In addition to promoting the Pdm to Castor transition, Chronophage also represses the production of neurons generated during the earlier Hunchback and Kruppel temporal windows. Genetic interactions with Hunchback and Kruppel indicate that Chronophage regulates NSC competence to generate Hunchback- and Kruppel-specified neurons. Taken together, our results suggest that Chronophage has a conserved role in temporal patterning and neuronal subtype specification.
Stellate cells are principal neurons in the entorhinal cortex that contribute to spatial processing. They also play a role in the context of Alzheimer's disease as they accumulate Amyloid beta early in the disease. Producing human stellate cells from pluripotent stem cells would allow researchers to study early mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease, however, no protocols currently exist for producing such cells. In order to develop novel stem cell protocols, we characterize at high resolution the development of the porcine medial entorhinal cortex by tracing neuronal and glial subtypes from mid-gestation to the adult brain to identify the transcriptomic profile of progenitor and adult stellate cells. Importantly, we could confirm the robustness of our data by extracting developmental factors from the identified intermediate stellate cell cluster and implemented these factors to generate putative intermediate stellate cells from human induced pluripotent stem cells. Six transcription factors identified from the stellate cell cluster including RUNX1T1, SOX5, FOXP1, MEF2C, TCF4, EYA2 were overexpressed using a forward programming approach to produce neurons expressing a unique combination of RELN, SATB2, LEF1 and BCL11B observed in stellate cells. Further analyses of the individual transcription factors led to the discovery that FOXP1 is critical in the reprogramming process and omission of RUNX1T1 and EYA2 enhances neuron conversion. Our findings contribute not only to the profiling of cell types within the developing and adult brain's medial entorhinal cortex but also provides proof-of-concept for using scRNAseq data to produce entorhinal intermediate stellate cells from human pluripotent stem cells in-vitro.
BACKGROUND: T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) is an aggressive neoplasm closely related to T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL). Despite their similarities, and contrary to T-ALL, studies on paediatric T-LBL are scarce and, therefore, its molecular landscape has not yet been fully elucidated. Thus, the aims of this study were to characterize the genetic and molecular heterogeneity of paediatric T-LBL and to evaluate novel molecular markers differentiating this entity from T-ALL.PROCEDURE: Thirty-three paediatric T-LBL patients were analyzed using an integrated approach, including targeted next-generation sequencing, RNA-sequencing transcriptome analysis and copy-number arrays.RESULTS: Copy number and mutational analyses allowed the detection of recurrent homozygous deletions of 9p/CDKN2A (78%), trisomy 20 (19%) and gains of 17q24-q25 (16%), as well as frequent mutations of NOTCH1 (62%), followed by the BCL11B (23%), WT1 (19%) and FBXW7, PHF6 and RPL10 genes (15%, respectively). This genetic profile did not differ from that described in T-ALL in terms of mutation incidence and global genomic complexity level, but unveiled virtually exclusive 17q25 gains and trisomy 20 in T-LBL. Additionally, we identified novel gene fusions in paediatric T-LBL, including NOTCH1-IKZF2, RNGTT-SNAP91 and DDX3X-MLLT10, the last being the only one previously described in T-ALL. Moreover, clinical correlations highlighted the presence of Notch pathway alterations as a factor related to favourable outcome.CONCLUSIONS: In summary, the genomic landscape of paediatric T-LBL is similar to that observed in T-ALL, and Notch signaling pathway deregulation remains the cornerstone in its pathogenesis, including not only mutations but fusion genes targeting NOTCH1.
BCL11B is an essential transcription factor for T-cell lineage commitment and differentiation, and its dysregulation has been shown to be associated with T-cell tumourigenesis. In this study, we investigated BCL11B expression by immunohistochemical analysis in 120 cases of mature T-cell lymphoma, 34 B-cell lymphomas, 11 NK-cell neoplasms and 17 reactive cutaneous conditions. All cases of mycosis fungoides (n=23), primary cutaneous CD4+ small/medium T-cell lymphoproliferative disorder (n=8) and T-prolymphocytic leukaemia (n=6) were positive for BCL11B and the staining intensity was higher than that of reactive T-cells. Fourteen of 15 (93%) cases of angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma, 10 of 12 (83%) T-large granular lymphocytic leukaemia and 14 of 20 (70%) peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified, were also positive for BCL11B with an intensity comparable to reactive T-cells. Other T-cell neoplasms were uncommonly positive including one of three (33%) cases of primary cutaneous gamma delta T-cell lymphoma, one of four (25%) cases of subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma, one of four (25%) cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma, and one of 20 (5%) cases of anaplastic large cell lymphoma (8 ALK-positive, 12 ALK-negative). T-cells in reactive cutaneous infiltrates were also positive for BCL11B, but staining intensity was much weaker than in mycosis fungoides. All NK-cell (n=11) and B-cell neoplasms (n=34) were negative for BCL11B. In conclusion, BCL11B shows a distinct expression pattern in various T-cell neoplasms. BCL11B appears to have utility as another T-cell marker and may be useful in the differential diagnosis of lymphoid neoplasms.
OBJECTIVES: Our goal was to evaluate the diagnostic value of DNA methylation analysis in combination with machine learning to differentiate pleural mesothelioma (PM) from important histopathological mimics.MATERIAL AND METHODS: DNA methylation data of PM, lung adenocarcinomas, lung squamous cell carcinomas and chronic pleuritis was used to train a random forest as well as a support vector machine. These classifiers were validated using an independent validation cohort including pleural carcinosis and pleomorphic variants of lung adeno- and squamous cell carcinomas. Furthermore, we performed differential methylation analysis and used a deconvolution method to estimate the composition of the tumor microenvironment.RESULTS: T-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding clearly separated PM from lung adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas, but there was a considerable overlap between chronic pleuritis specimens and PM with low tumor cell content. In a nested cross validation on the training cohort, both machine learning algorithms achieved the same accuracies (94.8%). On the validation cohort, we observed high accuracies for the support vector machine (97.8%) while the random forest performed considerably worse (89.5%), especially in distinguishing PM from chronic pleuritis. Differential methylation analysis revealed promoter hypermethylation in PM specimens, including the tumor suppressor genes BCL11B, EBF1, FOXA1, and WNK2. Deconvolution of the stromal and immune cell composition revealed higher rates of regulatory T-cells and endothelial cells in tumor specimens and a heterogenous inflammation including macrophages, B-cells and natural killer cells in chronic pleuritis.CONCLUSION: DNA methylation in combination with machine learning classifiers is a promising tool to reliably differentiate PM from chronic pleuritis and lung cancer, including pleomorphic carcinomas. Furthermore, our study highlights new candidate genes for PM carcinogenesis and shows that deconvolution of DNA methylation data can provide reasonable insights into the composition of the tumor microenvironment.
The zinc-finger transcription factor GATA-3 plays a crucial role during early T cell development and also dictates later T cell differentiation outcomes. However, its role and collaboration with the Notch signaling pathway in the induction of T lineage specification and commitment have not been fully elucidated. We show that GATA-3 deficiency in mouse hematopoietic progenitors results in an early block in T cell development despite the presence of Notch signals, with a failure to upregulate Bcl11b expression, leading to a diversion along a myeloid, but not a B cell, lineage fate. GATA-3 deficiency in the presence of Notch signaling results in the apoptosis of early T lineage cells, as seen with inhibition of CDK4/6 (cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6) function, and dysregulated cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2b (Cdkn2b) expression. We also show that GATA-3 induces Bcl11b, and together with Bcl11b represses Cdkn2b expression; however, loss of Cdkn2b failed to rescue the developmental block of GATA-3-deficient T cell progenitor. Our findings provide a signaling and transcriptional network by which the T lineage program in response to Notch signals is realized.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), the most medically relevant tick-transmitted flavivirus in Eurasia, targets the host central nervous system and frequently causes severe encephalitis. The severity of TBEV-induced neuropathogenesis is highly cell-type specific and the exact mechanism responsible for such differences has not been fully described yet. Thus, we performed a comprehensive analysis of alterations in host poly-(A)/miRNA/lncRNA expression upon TBEV infection in vitro in human primary neurons (high cytopathic effect) and astrocytes (low cytopathic effect). Infection with severe but not mild TBEV strain resulted in a high neuronal death rate. In comparison, infection with either of TBEV strains in human astrocytes did not. Differential expression and splicing analyses with an in silico prediction of miRNA/mRNA/lncRNA/vd-sRNA networks found significant changes in inflammatory and immune response pathways, nervous system development and regulation of mitosis in TBEV Hypr-infected neurons. Candidate mechanisms responsible for the aforementioned phenomena include specific regulation of host mRNA levels via differentially expressed miRNAs/lncRNAs or vd-sRNAs mimicking endogenous miRNAs and virus-driven modulation of host pre-mRNA splicing. We suggest that these factors are responsible for the observed differences in the virulence manifestation of both TBEV strains in different cell lines. This work brings the first complex overview of alterations in the transcriptome of human astrocytes and neurons during the infection by two TBEV strains of different virulence. The resulting data could serve as a starting point for further studies dealing with the mechanism of TBEV-host interactions and the related processes of TBEV pathogenesis.
By improving the previous method of CUT&RUN, we developed D-CUT&RUN (DSP fixed CUT&RUN) for under-expressed transcription factor. High-quality data could be obtained for low expressed transcription factors using chemical crosslinkers (DSP) and reducing agent (DTT). We applied our D-CUT&RUN to detection of Bcl11b and Mycn binding sites in mammary epithelial progenitor cells. Pathway enrichment analysis results of Bcl11b target genes showed that Bcl11b was a regulatory factor involved in breast cancer and it could negatively regulate Wnt signaling pathway. Furthermore, the role of Bcl11b in breast cancer was mediated by catabolic process and stress-related pathway. Our research suggested that D-CUT&RUN could be used for low abundance transcription factor binding sites detection and Bcl11b could be a target for breast cancer treatment in the future.
BACKGROUND: Ovarian metastasis (OM) results in poor survival of gastric cancer (GC) patients. While immunotherapy has emerged as a promising approach for late-stage GC, validated immune-related prognostic signatures still remain in need. In this study, we constructed an ovarian metastasis- and immune-related prognostic signature (OMIRPS), characterized the molecular and immune features of OMIRPS-categorized subgroups and predicted their potential response to immunotherapy.METHODS: Three individual cohorts were used to construct and evaluate OMIRPS: RNA-seq of matched primary GC and OM from Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center (FUSCC) (discovery cohort, n = 4), The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) (training cohort, n = 544) and GSE84437 (validation cohort, n = 433). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identified between primary GC and OM and immune-related genes (IRGs) from the ImmPort and InnateDB databases were used to identify immune-related prognostic hub genes, which were further used to construct OMIRPS by using LASSO regression analysis. Prognosis, molecular characteristics, immune features, and differential immunotherapy efficacy between different OMIRPS subgroups were analyzed.RESULTS: Functional analyses of DEGs revealed the significance of immune-related signatures and pathways in the OM. Immune-related prognostic hub genes including TNFRSF18, CARD11, BCL11B, NRP1, BNIP3L, and ATF3 were utilized to construct OMIRPS, which was identified as an independent prognostic factor. Comprehensive analyses unveiled the distinctive molecular and immune characteristics of OMIRPS-high and -low subgroup in regard to enriched pathways, mutation rate, tumor mutation burden, microsatellite instability status, infiltrated immune cell, immune exclusion score, and the prediction of immunotherapy efficacy. Additionally, OMIRPS was associated with Immune Subtypes with borderline significance.CONCLUSIONS: RNA-seq of paired primary and ovarian metastatic tumors unveiled the significance of immune-related pathways and tumor immune microenvironment in OM. OMIRPS served as a promising biomarker to predict the prognosis of GC patients and distinguish the molecular features, immune characteristics, and efficacy of immunotherapy between different subgroups.
The mammalian neocortex is a highly organized six-layered structure with four major cortical neuron subtypes: corticothalamic projection neurons (CThPNs), subcerebral projection neurons (SCPNs), deep callosal projection neurons (CPNs), and superficial CPNs. Here, careful examination of multiple conditional knockout model mouse lines showed that the transcription factor FOXG1 functions as a master regulator of postmitotic cortical neuron specification and found that mice lacking functional FOXG1 exhibited projection deficits. Before embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5), FOXG1 enforces deep CPN identity in postmitotic neurons by activating Satb2 but repressing Bcl11b and Tbr1. After E14.5, FOXG1 exerts specification functions in distinct layers via differential regulation of Bcl11b and Tbr1, including specification of superficial versus deep CPNs and enforcement of CThPN identity. FOXG1 controls CThPN versus SCPN fate by fine-tuning Fezf2 levels through diverse interactions with multiple SOX family proteins. Thus, our study supports a developmental model to explain the postmitotic specification of four cortical projection neuron subtypes and sheds light on neuropathogenesis.
As early T cell precursors transition from multipotentiality to T lineage commitment, they change expression of multiple transcription factors. It is unclear whether individual transcription factors directly control choices between T cell identity and some alternative fate or whether these factors mostly affect proliferation or survival during the normal commitment process. Here, we unraveled the impacts of deleting individual transcription factors at two stages in early T cell development, using synchronized in vitro differentiation systems, single-cell RNA-seq with batch indexing, and controlled gene-disruption strategies. First, using a customized method for single-cell CRISPR disruption, we defined how the early-acting transcription factors Bcl11a, Erg, Spi1 (PU.1), Gata3, and Tcf7 (TCF1) function before commitment. The results revealed a kinetic tug of war within individual cells between T cell factors Tcf7 and Gata3 and progenitor factors Spi1 and Bcl11a, with an unexpected guidance role for Erg. Second, we tested how activation of transcription factor Bcl11b during commitment altered ongoing cellular programs. In knockout cells where Bcl11b expression was prevented, the cells did not undergo developmental arrest, instead following an alternative path as T lineage commitment was blocked. A stepwise, time-dependent regulatory cascade began with immediate-early transcription factor activation and E protein inhibition, finally leading Bcl11b knockout cells toward exit from the T cell pathway. Last, gene regulatory networks of transcription factor cross-regulation were extracted from the single-cell transcriptome results, characterizing the specification network operating before T lineage commitment and revealing its links to both the Bcl11b knockout alternative network and the network consolidating T cell identity during commitment.
The B-cell CLL/lymphoma 11B gene (BCL11B) plays a crucial role in T-cell development, but its role in T-cell malignancies is still unclear. To study its role in the development of T-cell neoplasms, we generated an inducible BCL11B knockout in a murine T cell leukemia/lymphoma model. Mice, bearing human oncogenes TAL BHLH Transcription Factor 1 (TAL1; SCL) or LIM Domain Only 1 (LMO1), responsible for T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) development, were crossed with BCL11B floxed and with CRE-ER/lox mice. The mice with a single oncogene BCL11Bflox/floxCREtg/tgTAL1tg or BCL11Bflox/floxCREtg/tgLMO1tg were healthy, bred normally, and were used to maintain the mice in culture. When crossed with each other, >90% of the double transgenic mice BCL11Bflox/floxCREtg/tgTAL1tgLMO1tg, within 3 to 6 months after birth, spontaneously developed T-cell leukemia/lymphoma. Upon administration of synthetic estrogen (tamoxifen), which binds to the estrogen receptor and activates the Cre recombinase, the BCL11B gene was knocked out by excision of its fourth exon from the genome. The mouse model of inducible BCL11B knockout we generated can be used to study the role of this gene in cancer development and the potential therapeutic effect of BCL11B inhibition in T-cell leukemia and lymphoma.
B-Cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) is a transcription factor important for T-cell development and acts as a tumor suppressor gene in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Here, we identified BCL11B as a candidate leukemia-associated gene in human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-induced adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL). Interestingly, the short form lacking exon 3 (BCL11B/S) protein was more highly expressed than the full-length BCL11B (BCL11B/L) in leukemic cells from most of the ATLL patients, although expression ratios of BCL11B/L to BCL11B/S were almost equal in control CD4+ T cells. BCL11B/S and BCL11B/L exhibited distinct subcellular localization and differential effects on cellular growth; BCL11B/L expression exhibited nuclear localization and inhibited cell growth in ATLL cells, whereas BCL11B/S exhibited nucleocytoplasmic distribution and accelerated cell growth. Furthermore, BCL11B/S expression accelerated the development of T-cell leukemia/lymphomas in transgenic mice carrying HTLV-1/HBZ, a critical viral factor in leukemogenesis, whereas these phenotypes did not occur in the double transgenic mice carrying BCL11B/L and HTLV-1/HBZ. In HTLV-1-infected T-cell lines, BCL11B expression is downregulated by HTLV-1/Tax, a viral factor necessary at the early stage of leukemogenesis. These results suggest that downregulation of BCL11B/L expression and upregulation of BCL11B/S may contribute to the development and progression of ATLL.
BACKGROUND: Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) is a particularly promising area of cancer immunotherapy, engineered T and NK cells that express chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) are being explored for treating hematopoietic malignancies but exhibit limited clinical benefits for solid tumour patients, successful cellular immunotherapy of solid tumors demands new strategies.METHODS: Inactivation of BCL11B were performed by CRISPR/Cas9 in human T cells. Immunophenotypic and transcriptional profiles of sgBCL11B T cells were characterized by cytometer and transcriptomics, respectively. sgBCL11B T cells are further engineered with chimeric antigen receptor. Anti-tumor activity of ITNK or CAR-ITNK cells were evaluated in preclinical and clinical studies.RESULTS: We report that inactivation of BCL11B in human CD8+ and CD4+ T cells induced their reprogramming into induced T-to-natural killer cells (ITNKs). ITNKs contained a diverse TCR repertoire; downregulated T cell-associated genes such as TCF7 and LEF1; and expressed high levels of NK cell lineage-associated genes. ITNKs and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-transduced ITNKs selectively lysed a variety of cancer cells in culture and suppressed the growth of solid tumors in xenograft models. In a preliminary clinical study, autologous administration of ITNKs in patients with advanced solid tumors was well tolerated, and tumor stabilization was seen in six out nine patients, with one partial remission.CONCLUSIONS: The novel ITNKs thus may be a promising novel cell source for cancer immunotherapy.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03882840 . Registered 20 March 2019-Retrospectively registered.
In the neocortex, functionally distinct areas process specific types of information. Area identity is established by morphogens and transcriptional master regulators, but downstream mechanisms driving area-specific neuronal specification remain unclear. Here, we reveal a role for RNA-binding proteins in defining area-specific cytoarchitecture. Mice lacking Pum2 or overexpressing human TDP-43 show apparent 'motorization' of layers IV and V of primary somatosensory cortex (S1), characterized by dramatic expansion of cells co-expressing Sox5 and Bcl11b/Ctip2, a hallmark of subcerebral projection neurons, at the expense of cells expressing the layer IV neuronal marker Rorβ. Moreover, retrograde labeling experiments with cholera toxin B in Pum2; Emx1-Cre and TDP43A315T mice revealed a corresponding increase in subcerebral connectivity of these neurons in S1. Intriguingly, other key features of somatosensory area identity are largely preserved, suggesting that Pum2 and TDP-43 may function in a downstream program, rather than controlling area identity per se. Transfection of primary neurons and in utero electroporation (IUE) suggest cell-autonomous and post-mitotic modulation of Sox5, Bcl11b/Ctip2, and Rorβ levels. Mechanistically, we find that Pum2 and TDP-43 directly interact with and affect the translation of mRNAs encoding Sox5, Bcl11b/Ctip2, and Rorβ. In contrast, effects on the levels of these mRNAs were not detectable in qRT-PCR or single-molecule fluorescent in situ hybridization assays, and we also did not detect effects on their splicing or polyadenylation patterns. Our results support the notion that post-transcriptional regulatory programs involving translational regulation and mediated by Pum2 and TDP-43 contribute to elaboration of area-specific neuronal identity and connectivity in the neocortex.
SignificanceOutside the neurogenic niches, the adult brain lacks multipotent progenitor cells. In this study, we performed a series of in vivo screens and reveal that a single factor can induce resident brain astrocytes to become induced neural progenitor cells (iNPCs), which then generate neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Such a conclusion is supported by single-cell RNA sequencing and multiple lineage-tracing experiments. Our discovery of iNPCs is fundamentally important for regenerative medicine since neural injuries or degeneration often lead to loss/dysfunction of all three neural lineages. Our findings also provide insights into cell plasticity in the adult mammalian brain, which has largely lost the regenerative capacity.
Kawasaki disease (KD) is a febrile childhood vasculitis that involves the coronary arteries. Most previous studies have focused on the genes activated in the acute phase of KD. However, in this study, we focused on suppressed genes in the acute stage of KD and identified novel targets with clinical significance and potential prognostic value for KD patients. We enrolled 18 patients with KD, 18 healthy controls (HC), and 18 febrile controls (FC) for human transcriptome array analysis. Another 19 healthy controls, 20 febrile controls, and 31 patients with KD were recruited for RT-PCR validation of target mRNA expressions. The results of Human Transcriptome Array (HTA) 2.0 showed 461 genes that were significantly higher in KD and then normalized after IVIG, as well as 99 suppressed genes in KD. Furthermore, we identified the four genes in KD with the most downregulation, including BCL11B, DUSP2, DDX24, and CDR2, as well as the upregulation of their expression following IVIG administration. The mRNA expression of CDR2 by qRT-PCR was the most compatible with the pattern of the HTA2.0 results. Furthermore, we found higher DDX24 mRNA expression in KD patients with CAL when compared to those without CAL 3 weeks after IVIG administration. In summary, activated gene expression represented a majority in the immune response of KD. In this study, we identified CDR2 as a novel suppressed gene for Kawasaki disease via human transcriptome array analysis and DDX24 associated with CAL formation, which may contribute to further understanding of CAL pathogenesis in KD.
This work describes the effects of immunotherapy with Protein Aggregate Magnesium-Ammonium Phospholinoleate-Palmitoleate Anhydride in the treatment of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer in an animal model. NMIBC was induced by treating female Fischer 344 rats with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. After treatment with MNU, the rats were distributed into four experimental groups: Control (without MNU) group, MNU (cancer) group, MNU-BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) group, and MNU-P-MAPA group. P-MAPA intravesical treatment was more effective in histopathological recovery from cancer state in relation to BCG treatment. Western blot assays showed an increase in the protein levels of c-Myc, COUP-TFII, and wild-type p53 in P-MAPA-treated rats in relation to BCG-treated rats. In addition, rats treated with P-MAPA intravesical immunotherapy showed the highest BAX protein levels and the lowest proliferation/apoptotic ratio in relation to BCG-treated rats, pointing out a preponderance of apoptosis. P-MAPA intravesical treatment increased the wild-type p53 levels and enhanced c-Myc/COUP-TFII-induced apoptosis mediated by p53. These alterations were fundamental for histopathological recovery from cancer and for suppress abnormal cell proliferation. This action of P-MAPA on apoptotic pathways may represent a new strategy for treating NMIBC.
Zinc finger proteins play pivotal roles in health and disease and exert critical functions in various cellular processes. A majority of zinc finger proteins bind DNA and act as transcription factors. B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 11B (BCL11B) represents one member of the large family of zinc finger proteins. The N-terminal domain of BCL11B was shown to be crucial for BCL11B to exert its proper function by homodimerization. Here, we describe an easy and fast preparation protocol to yield the fluorescently tagged protein of the recombinant N-terminal BCL11B zinc finger domain (BCL11B42-94) for in vitro studies. First, we expressed fluorescently tagged BCL11B42-94 in E. coli and described the subsequent purification utilizing immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography to achieve very high yields of a purified fusion protein of 200 mg/L culture. We proceeded with characterizing the atypical zinc finger domain using circular dichroism and size exclusion chromatography. Validation of the functional fluorescent pair CyPet-/EYFP-BCL11B42-94 was achieved with Förster resonance energy transfer. Our protocol can be utilized to study other zinc finger domains to expand the knowledge in this field.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a life-threatening birth defect that presents as either an isolated diaphragm defect or as part of a complex disorder with a wide array of anomalies (complex CDH). Some patients with complex CDH display distinct craniofacial anomalies such as craniofrontonasal dysplasia or craniosynostosis, defined by the premature closure of cranial sutures. Using clinical whole exome sequencing (WES), we found a BCL11B missense variant in a patient with a left-sided congenital diaphragmatic hernia as well as sagittal suture craniosynostosis. We applied targeted sequencing of BCL11B in patients with craniosynostosis or with a combination of craniosynostosis and CDH. This resulted in three additional BCL11B missense mutations in patients with craniosynostosis. The phenotype of the patient with both CDH as well as craniosynostosis was similar to the phenotype of previously reported patients with BCL11B missense mutations. Although these findings imply that both craniosynostosis as well as CDH may be associated with BCL11B mutations, further studies are required to establish whether BCL11B variants are causative mutations for both conditions or if our finding was coincidental.
B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 11B (BCL11B) is a C2H2 zinc finger transcription factor that is critically important for regulating the development and function of a variety of systems including the central nervous system, the skin, and the immune system. Germline heterozygous variants are associated with a spectrum of clinical disorders, including severe combined immunodeficiency as well as neurological, craniofacial, and dermal defects. Of these individuals, ~50% present with severe allergic disease. Here, we report the detailed clinical and laboratory workup of one of the most severe BCL11B-dependent atopic cases to date. Leveraging a zebrafish model, we were able to confirm a strong T-cell defect in the patient. Based on these data, we classify germline BCL11B-dependent atopic disease as a novel primary atopic disorder.
Acute leukemias of ambiguous lineage (ALAL), including mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) and related entities such as early T-cell precursor acute leukemia (ETP-ALL), remain diagnostic and clinical challenges due to limited understanding of pathogenesis, reliance of immunophenotyping to classify disease, and the lack of a rational approach to guide selection of appropriate therapy. Recent studies utilizing genomic sequencing and complementary approaches have provided key insights that are changing the way in which such leukemias are classified, and potentially, treated. Several recurrent genomic alterations define leukemias that straddle immunophenotypic entities, such as ZNF384-rearranged childhood B-ALL and B/myeloid MPAL, and BCL11B-rearranged T/myeloid MPAL, ETP-ALL and AML. In contrast, some cases of MPAL represent canonical ALL/AML entities exhibiting lineage aberrancy. For many cases of ALAL, experimental approaches indicate lineage aberrancy arises from acquisition of a founding genetic alteration into a hematopoietic stem or progenitor cell. Determination of optimal therapeutic approach requires genomic characterization of uniformly treated ALAL patients in prospective studies, but several approaches, including kinase inhibitors and BH3 mimetics may be efficacious in subsets of ALAL.
We report a patient affected by BCL11B-related disorder, providing the first extensive demonstration of clinical and neuroradiological progressive course of the disease, with possible implications on the way it is studied and followed-up. Never described clinical aspects such as toes abnormalities and hypospadias widen the range of dysmorphisms associated with this condition. Our data suggest that BCL11B mutations may be implicated not only in impaired morphogenesis and hematopoiesis but also in progressive central nervous system damage, which remains to be further investigated and clarified.
CONTEXT: Adrenarche reflects the developmental growth of the adrenal zona reticularis, which produces increasing adrenal androgen secretion (eg, dehydroepiandrosterone [DHEA]/dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate [DHEAS]) from approximately age 5 to 15 years.OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized that the study of the genetic determinants associated with variations in serum DHEAS during adrenarche might detect genetic variants influencing the rate or timing of this process.METHODS: Genome-wide genotyping was performed in participants of the Chilean pediatric Growth and Obesity Chilean Cohort Study (GOCS) cohort (n = 788). We evaluated the genetic determinants of DHEAS levels at the genome-wide level and in targeted genes associated with steroidogenesis. To corroborate our findings, we evaluated a polygenic risk score (PRS) for age at pubarche, based on the discovered variants, in children from the same cohort.RESULTS: We identified one significant variant at the genome-wide level in the full cohort, close to the GALR1 gene (P = 3.81 × 10-8). In addition, variants suggestive of association (P < 1 × 10-5) were observed in PRLR, PITX1, PTPRD, NR1H4, and BCL11B. Stratifying by sex, we found variants suggestive of association in SERBP1 and CAMTA1/VAMP3 for boys and near ZNF98, TRPC6, and SULT2A1 for girls. We also found significant reductions in age at pubarche in those children with higher PRS for greater DHEAS based on these newly identified variants.CONCLUSION: Our results disclose one variant associated with DHEAS concentrations at the level of genome-wide association study significance, and several variants with a suggestive association that may be involved in the genetic regulation of adrenarche.
Analysis of the transcriptional profiles of developing thymocytes has shown that T lineage commitment is associated with loss of stem cell and early progenitor gene signatures and the acquisition of T cell gene signatures. Less well understood are the epigenetic alterations that accompany or enable these transcriptional changes. Here, we show that the histone demethylase Lsd1 (Kdm1a) performs a key role in extinguishing stem/progenitor transcriptional programs in addition to key repressive gene programs during thymocyte maturation. Deletion of Lsd1 caused a block in late T cell development and resulted in overexpression of interferon response genes as well as genes regulated by the Gfi1, Bcl6, and, most prominently, Bcl11b transcriptional repressors in CD4+CD8+ thymocytes. Transcriptional overexpression in Lsd1-deficient thymocytes was not always associated with increased H3K4 trimethylation at gene promoters, indicating that Lsd1 indirectly affects the expression of many genes. Together, these results identify a critical function for Lsd1 in the epigenetic regulation of multiple repressive gene signatures during T cell development.
The Krüppel-like transcription factor (KLF) BCL11B is characterized by a wide tissue distribution and crucial functions in key developmental and cellular processes, as well as in various pathologies including cancer and HIV infection. Although the basics of BCL11B activity and relevant interactions with other proteins have been uncovered, how this exclusively nuclear protein localizes to its compartment remained unclear. Here, we demonstrate that unlike other KLFs, BCL11B does not require the C-terminal DNA-binding domain to pass through the nuclear envelope but has an independent, previously unidentified, nuclear localization signal (NLS), which is located distantly from the zinc finger domains and fulfills the essential criteria of being an autonomous NLS. First, it can redirect a heterologous cytoplasmic protein to the nucleus. Second, its mutation causes aberrant localization of the protein of origin. Finally, we provide experimental and in silico evidences of the direct interaction with importin-α. The relative conservation of this motif allows formulating a consensus sequence (K/R)K-X13-14-KR+K++ ('+' indicates amino acids with similar chemical properties), which can be found in all BCL11B orthologs among vertebrates and in the closely related protein BCL11A.
BACKGROUND: Severe trauma and burns accompanied by sepsis are associated with high morbidity and mortality. Little is known about the transcriptional similarity between trauma, burns, sepsis, and systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). Uncovering key genes and molecular networks is critical to understanding the biology of disease. Conventional analysis of gene changes (fold change) analysis is difficult for time-serial data such as post-injury blood transcriptome.METHODS: Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to the trauma dataset to identify modules and hub genes. Module stability was tested by half sampling. Module preservations of burns, sepsis, and SIRS were calculated using trauma as reference. Module functional enrichment was analyzed in gProfiler server. Candidate drugs were screened using Connectivity Map based on hub genes. The modules were visualized in Cytoscape.RESULTS: Seventeen modules were identified. The modules were robust to the exclusion of half the sample. They were involved in lymphocyte and platelet activation, erythrocyte differentiation, cell cycle, translation, and interferon signaling. In addition, highly connected hub genes were identified in each module, such as GUCY1B1, BCL11B, HMMR, and CEACAM6. High BCL11B (M13) or low CEACAM6 (M27) expression indicates better survival prognosis in sepsis patients regardless of endotype class and age. Network preservation in burns, sepsis, and SIRS showed a general similarity between trauma and burns. M4, M5, M13, M16, M20, and M27 were significantly associated with injury time in trauma and burns. High M13 (T cell activation), low M15 (cell cycle), and low M27 (neutrophil activation) indicate better survival of sepsis patients, regardless of endotype class and age. Moreover, the modules can efficiently separate patients with different diseases. Some modules and hub genes have good prognostic performance in sepsis. Based on the hub genes of each module, six candidate drugs were screened.CONCLUSION: This study first compared the gene co-expression modules in trauma, burns, sepsis, and SIRS. The identified modules are useful for disease prognosis and drug discovery. BCL11B and CEACAM6 may be promising biomarkers for sepsis risk assessment.
Vocal learning, the ability to imitate sounds from conspecifics and the environment, is a key component of human spoken language and learned song in three independently evolved avian groups-oscine songbirds, parrots, and hummingbirds. Humans and each of these three bird clades exhibit specialized behavioral, neuroanatomical, and brain gene expression convergence related to vocal learning, speech, and song. To understand the evolutionary basis of vocal learning gene specializations and convergence, we searched for and identified accelerated genomic regions (ARs), a marker of positive selection, specific to vocal learning birds. We found avian vocal learner-specific ARs, and they were enriched in noncoding regions near genes with known speech functions or brain gene expression specializations in humans and vocal learning birds, including FOXP2, NEUROD6, ZEB2, and MEF2C, and near genes with major neurodevelopmental functions, including NR2F1, NRP2, and BCL11B We also found enrichment near the SFARI class S genes associated with syndromic vocal communication forms of autism spectrum disorders. These findings reveal strong candidate noncoding regions near genes for the evolutionary adaptations that distinguish vocal learning species from their close vocal nonlearning relatives and provide further evidence of molecular convergence between birdsong and human spoken language.
Human CMV (HCMV) is a ubiquitous pathogen that indelibly shapes the NK cell repertoire. Using transcriptomic, epigenomic, and proteomic approaches to evaluate peripheral blood NK cells from healthy human volunteers, we find that prior HCMV infection promotes NK cells with a T cell-like gene profile, including the canonical markers CD3ε, CD5, and CD8β, as well as the T cell lineage-commitment transcription factor Bcl11b. Although Bcl11b expression is upregulated during NK maturation from CD56bright to CD56dim, we find a Bcl11b-mediated signature at the protein level for FcεRIγ, PLZF, IL-2Rβ, CD3γ, CD3δ, and CD3ε in later-stage, HCMV-induced NK cells. BCL11B is targeted by Notch signaling in T cell development, and culture of NK cells with Notch ligand increases cytoplasmic CD3ε expression. The Bcl11b-mediated gain of CD3ε, physically associated with CD16 signaling molecules Lck and CD247 in NK cells is correlated with increased Ab-dependent effector function, including against HCMV-infected cells, identifying a potential mechanism for their prevalence in HCMV-infected individuals and their prospective clinical use in Ab-based therapies.
Elevated IgE has been long recognized as an important clinical marker of atopy but can be seen in a myriad of conditions. The discovery of autosomal dominant STAT3 deficiency marked the first recognition of hyper-IgE syndrome (HIES) and the first primary immunodeficiency linked to elevated IgE. Since then, genomic testing has increased the number of defects with associated mutations causing hyper-IgE syndrome and atopic diseases with FLG, DOCK8, SPINK5, and CARD11, among others. A spectrum of recurrent infections and atopy are hallmarks of elevated IgE with significant phenotypic overlap between each underlying condition. As treatment is predicated on early diagnosis, genomic testing is becoming a more commonly used diagnostic tool. We present a 6-year-old male patient with markedly elevated IgE and severe atopic dermatitis presenting with staphylococcal bacteremia found to have a heterozygous variant in FLG (p.S3247X) and multiple variants of unknown significance in BCL11B, ZAP70, LYST, and PTPRC. We review the genetic defects underpinning elevated IgE and highlight the spectrum of atopy and immunodeficiency seen in patients with underlying mutations. Although no one mutation is completely causative of the constellation of symptoms in this patient, we suggest the synergism of these variants is an impetus of disease.
The terminal 14q32 duplication has been reported often in association with other cytogenetic abnormalities, and individuals with this specific duplication showed varying degrees of developmental delay/intellectual disability (DD/ID) and growth retardation (GR), and distinct facial dysmorphisms. Herein, based on the limited cases of terminal duplication of 14q32 known to date, we present new affected siblings presenting with DD/ID, GR, and facial dysmorphism, as well as cerebral infarction caused by recurrent de novo der(14)t(14;14)(p11.2;q32.1) leading to terminal duplication of 14q32. We used coverage analysis generated via duo exome sequencing, performed chromosomal microarray (CMA) as a confirmatory test, and compared our findings with those reported previously. Coverage analysis generated via duo exome sequencing revealed a 17.2 Mb heterozygous duplication at chromosome 14q32.11-q32.33 with a Z ratio ranging between 0.5 and 1 in the proband and her elder brother. As a complementary method, CMA established a terminal duplication described as the arr[hg19]14q32.11q32.33(90,043,558_107,258,824)x3 in the proband and her elder brother; however, the parents and other siblings showed normal karyotyping and no abnormal gain or loss of CMA results. Five candidate genes, BCL11B, CCNK, YY1, DYNC1H1, and PACS2, were associated with the clinical phenotypes in our cases. Although the parents had normal chromosomes, two affected cases carrying terminal duplication of 14q32 can be explained by gonadal mosaicism. Further studies are needed to establish the association between cerebrovascular events and terminal duplication of chromosome 14q32, including investigation into the cytogenetics of patients with precise clinical descriptions.
CD8+ T cells not only are critical mediators of adaptive immunity but also may exhibit innate-like properties such as surface expression of NKG2C, an activating receptor typically associated with natural killer (NK) cells. We demonstrate that, similar to NK cells, NKG2C+TCRαβ+CD8+ T cells are associated with prior human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) exposure. In addition to expressing several NK cell markers such as CD56 and KIR, NKG2C+CD8+ T cells are oligoclonal and do not up-regulate PD-1 even in response to persistent activation. Furthermore, we found that NKG2C+CD8+ T cells from some individuals exhibited strong effector function against leukemia cells and HCMV-infected fibroblasts, which was dictated by both NKG2C and TCR specificity. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the transcription factor BCL11B, a regulator of T cell developmental fate, is down-regulated in NKG2C+CD8+ T cells when compared with conventional NKG2C−CD8+ T cells. BCL11B deletion in conventional CD8+ T cells resulted in the emergence of a similar innate-like CD56+CD94+DAP12+NKG2C+CD45RA+CCR7−PD-1−/low T cell population with activity against HLA-E+ targets. On the basis of their intrinsic capacity to recognize diseased cells coupled with lack of PD-1 induction, NKG2C+CD8+ T cells represent a lymphocyte population that resides at the boundary between innate and adaptive immunity, presenting an attractive alternative for cellular therapy, including CAR T cell–based therapies.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most successful paradigm of how risk-adapted therapy and detailed understanding of the genetic alterations driving leukemogenesis and therapeutic response may dramatically improve treatment outcomes, with cure rates now exceeding 90% in children. However, ALL still represents a leading cause of cancer-related death in the young, and the outcome for older adolescents and young adults with ALL remains poor. In the past decade, next generation sequencing has enabled critical advances in our understanding of leukemogenesis. These include the identification of risk-associated ALL subtypes (e.g., those with rearrangements of MEF2D, DUX4, NUTM1, ZNF384 and BCL11B; the PAX5 P80R and IKZF1 N159Y mutations; and genomic phenocopies such as Ph-like ALL) and the genomic basis of disease evolution. These advances have been complemented by the development of novel therapeutic approaches, including those that are of mutation-specific, such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and those that are mutation-agnostic, including antibody and cellular immunotherapies, and protein degradation strategies such as proteolysis-targeting chimeras. Herein, we review the genetic taxonomy of ALL with a focus on clinical implications and the implementation of genomic diagnostic approaches.
Comment on    Blood. 2021 Sep 2;138(9):773-784.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALL) are immature lymphoid tumors localizing in the bone marrow, mediastinum, central nervous system, and lymphoid organs. They account for 10-15% of pediatric and about 25% of adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cases. It is a widely heterogeneous disease that is caused by the co-occurrence of multiple genetic abnormalities, which are acquired over time, and once accumulated, lead to full-blown leukemia. Recurrently affected genes deregulate pivotal cell processes, such as cycling (CDKN1B, RB1, TP53), signaling transduction (RAS pathway, IL7R/JAK/STAT, PI3K/AKT), epigenetics (PRC2 members, PHF6), and protein translation (RPL10, CNOT3). A remarkable role is played by NOTCH1 and CDKN2A, as they are altered in more than half of the cases. The activation of the NOTCH1 signaling affects thymocyte specification and development, while CDKN2A haploinsufficiency/inactivation, promotes cell cycle progression. Among recurrently involved oncogenes, a major role is exerted by T-cell-specific transcription factors, whose deregulated expression interferes with normal thymocyte development and causes a stage-specific differentiation arrest. Hence, TAL and/or LMO deregulation is typical of T-ALL with a mature phenotype (sCD3 positive) that of TLX1, NKX2-1, or TLX3, of cortical T-ALL (CD1a positive); HOXA and MEF2C are instead over-expressed in subsets of Early T-cell Precursor (ETP; immature phenotype) and early T-ALL. Among immature T-ALL, genomic alterations, that cause BCL11B transcriptional deregulation, identify a specific genetic subgroup. Although comprehensive cytogenetic and molecular studies have shed light on the genetic background of T-ALL, biomarkers are not currently adopted in the diagnostic workup of T-ALL, and only a limited number of studies have assessed their clinical implications. In this review, we will focus on recurrent T-ALL abnormalities that define specific leukemogenic pathways and on oncogenes/oncosuppressors that can serve as diagnostic biomarkers. Moreover, we will discuss how the complex genomic profile of T-ALL can be used to address and test innovative/targeted therapeutic options.
B-cell lymphoma/leukaemia 11B (BCL11B) is an essential transcription factor for T-cell lineage commitment and maturation. We investigated BCL11B expression by immunohistochemistry in T-lymphoblastic leukaemia/lymphoma (T-ALL/LBL) (n = 115). The majority (83%) of early T-cell precursor T-ALL/LBL (ETP-ALL) cases showed negative BCL11B expression, while most (84%) of non-ETP-ALL/LBL were positive for BCL11B. A simplified three-marker [BCL11B, cluster of differentiation 5 (CD5), CD13] immunophenotypic score discriminated reliably between ETP-ALL and non-ETP-ALL/LBL. In ETP-ALL, patients with positive BCL11B expression had a better overall survival than those with negative BCL11B (P = 0·009). In summary, BCL11B is a valuable marker for T-ALL/LBL subtyping and serves as a potential prognostic marker in patients with ETP-ALL.
Author information:(1)School of Basic Medicine, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030000, China.(2)Department of Pathology, Second Medical College of Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030000, China.(3)Department of Pathology, Shanxi Cancer Hospital, Taiyuan 030000, China.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are accountable for the progress of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). This exploratory study evaluated the expression of molecular CSC markers in different tissues of HNSCC patients. Tissue specimens of primary tumor, lymph node metastases and macroscopically healthy mucosa of 12 consecutive HNSCC patients, that were treated with surgery and adjuvant radio(chemo)therapy upon indication, were collected. Samples were assessed for the expression of p16 as a surrogate for HPV-related disease and different molecular stem cell markers (ALDH1A1, BCL11B, BMI-1, and CD44). In the cohort, seven patients had HPV-related HNSCC; six thereof were oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. While expression of BMI-1 and BCL11B was significantly lower in healthy mucosa than both tumor and lymph node metastasis, there were no differences between tumor and lymph node metastasis. In the HPV-positive sub-cohort, these differences remained significant for BMI-1. However, no significant differences in these three tissues were found for ALDH1A1 and CD44. In conclusion, this exploratory study shows that CSC markers BMI-1 and BCL11B discriminate between healthy and cancerous tissue, whereas ALDH1A1 and CD44 were expressed to a comparable extent in healthy mucosa and cancerous tissues.
PU.1 (encoded by Spi1), an ETS-family transcription factor with many hematopoietic roles, is highly expressed in the earliest intrathymic T cell progenitors but must be down-regulated during T lineage commitment. The transcription factors Runx1 and GATA3 have been implicated in this Spi1 repression, but the basis of the timing was unknown. We show that increasing Runx1 and/or GATA3 down-regulates Spi1 expression in pro-T cells, while deletion of these factors after Spi1 down-regulation reactivates its expression. Leveraging the stage specificities of repression and transcription factor binding revealed an unconventional but functional site in Spi1 intron 2. Acute Cas9-mediated deletion or disruption of the Runx and GATA motifs in this element reactivates silenced Spi1 expression in a pro-T cell line, substantially more than disruption of other candidate elements, and counteracts the repression of Spi1 in primary pro-T cells during commitment. Thus, Runx1 and GATA3 work stage specifically through an intronic silencing element in mouse Spi1 to control strength and maintenance of Spi1 repression during T lineage commitment.
Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is an aggressive and genetically heterogeneous disease with poor prognosis. Cellular immune disorder is a common characteristic of this disease and is thought to be related to clinical outcome. Alterations in T cell clonal expansion and T cell dysfunction has been detected in MDS patients. Little is known about whether there are immune biomarkers to evaluate the T cell alterations with clinical outcome. Previous studies have demonstrated that B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) plays an important role in regulating T cell development and proliferation. In this study, the prognostic value of BCL11B for MDS patients was explored by analyzing RNA-seq data from 270 patients in two datasets in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and real-time quantitative PCR data (qRT-PCR) of 31 bone marrow (BM) samples of MDS and 6 BM samples of patients with MDS progress to secondary acute myeloid leukemia (sAML) from our clinical center. The results demonstrated that BCL11B is significantly down-regulated in MDS patients as compared with healthy individuals (HIs). Importantly, lower BCL11B expression was found in MDS patients who were of high/very high risk, older than 60 y, or male and patients with sAML. Furthermore, low BCL11B expression appeared to be associated with poor overall survival (OS) for MDS patients, though the data were not yet significant enough at this point. In addition, BCL11B low-expressing MDS patients had shorter restricted mean survival time (RMST) than those with high BCL11B expression. Interestingly, BCL11B positively correlated with naive and activated memory CD4 + T cells, CD8 + T cells, and the T cell receptor complex genes CD3E and CD3G, but it negatively correlated with regulatory T cells (Treg). Additionally, co-occurrence of low BCL11B expression and CD3E and CD3G was associated with poor OS and shorter RMST. In conclusion, lower BCL11B expression in BM samples of MDS patients was associated with adverse clinical outcome.
Lineage-ambiguous leukemias are high-risk malignancies of poorly understood genetic basis. Here, we describe a distinct subgroup of acute leukemia with expression of myeloid, T lymphoid, and stem cell markers driven by aberrant allele-specific deregulation of BCL11B, a master transcription factor responsible for thymic T-lineage commitment and specification. Mechanistically, this deregulation was driven by chromosomal rearrangements that juxtapose BCL11B to superenhancers active in hematopoietic progenitors, or focal amplifications that generate a superenhancer from a noncoding element distal to BCL11B. Chromatin conformation analyses demonstrated long-range interactions of rearranged enhancers with the expressed BCL11B allele and association of BCL11B with activated hematopoietic progenitor cell cis-regulatory elements, suggesting BCL11B is aberrantly co-opted into a gene regulatory network that drives transformation by maintaining a progenitor state. These data support a role for ectopic BCL11B expression in primitive hematopoietic cells mediated by enhancer hijacking as an oncogenic driver of human lineage-ambiguous leukemia. SIGNIFICANCE: Lineage-ambiguous leukemias pose significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges due to a poorly understood molecular and cellular basis. We identify oncogenic deregulation of BCL11B driven by diverse structural alterations, including de novo superenhancer generation, as the driving feature of a subset of lineage-ambiguous leukemias that transcend current diagnostic boundaries.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 2659.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) is the spatial processing center of the brain and structurally is an interface between the three layered paleocortex and six layered neocortex, known as the periarchicortex. Limited studies indicate peculiarities in the formation of the EC such as early emergence of cells in layers (L) II and late deposition of LIII, as well as divergence in the timing of maturation of cell types in the superficial layers. In this study, we examine developmental events in the entorhinal cortex using an understudied model in neuroanatomy and development, the pig and supplement the research with BrdU labeling in the developing mouse EC. We determine the pig serves as an excellent anatomical model for studying human neurogenesis, given its long gestational length, presence of a moderate sized outer subventricular zone and early cessation of neurogenesis during gestation. Immunohistochemistry identified prominent clusters of OLIG2+ oligoprogenitor-like cells in the superficial layers of the lateral EC (LEC) that are sparser in the medial EC (MEC). These are first detected in the subplate during the early second trimester. MRI analyses reveal an acceleration of EC growth at the end of the second trimester. BrdU labeling of the developing MEC, shows the deeper layers form first and prior to the superficial layers, but the LV/VI emerges in parallel and the LII/III emerges later, but also in parallel. We coin this lamination pattern parallel lamination. The early born Reln+ stellate cells in the superficial layers express the classic LV marker, Bcl11b (Ctip2) and arise from a common progenitor that forms the late deep layer LV neurons. In summary, we characterize the developing EC in a novel animal model and outline in detail the formation of the EC. We further provide insight into how the periarchicortex forms in the brain, which differs remarkably to the inside-out lamination of the neocortex.
Cerebral cortical development is controlled by key transcription factors that specify the neuronal identities in the different layers. The mechanisms controlling their expression in distinct cells are only partially known. We investigated the expression and stability of Tbr1, Bcl11b, Fezf2, Satb2, and Cux1 mRNAs in single developing mouse cortical cells. We observe that Satb2 mRNA appears much earlier than its protein and in a set of cells broader than expected, suggesting an initial inhibition of its translation, subsequently released during development. Mechanistically, Satb2 3'UTR modulates protein translation of GFP reporters during mouse corticogenesis. We select miR-541, a eutherian-specific miRNA, and miR-92a/b as the best candidates responsible for SATB2 inhibition, being strongly expressed in early and reduced in late progenitor cells. Their inactivation triggers robust and premature SATB2 translation in both mouse and human cortical cells. Our findings indicate RNA interference as a major mechanism in timing cortical cell identities.
Hematopoietic multipotent progenitors seed the thymus and then follow consecutive developmental stages until the formation of mature T cells. During this process, phenotypic changes of T cells entail stage-specific transcriptional programs that underlie the dynamic progression towards mature lymphocytes. Lineage-specific transcription factors are key drivers of T cell specification and act in conjunction with epigenetic regulators that have also been elucidated as crucial players in the establishment of regulatory networks necessary for proper T cell development. In this review, we summarize the activity of transcription factors and epigenetic regulators that together orchestrate the intricacies of early T cell development with a focus on regulation of T cell lineage commitment.
The transcription factor Bcl11b is critically required to support the development of diverse cell types, including T lymphocytes, type 2 innate lymphoid cells, neurons, craniofacial mesenchyme and keratinocytes. Although in T cell development its onset of expression is tightly linked to T-lymphoid lineage commitment, the Bcl11b protein in fact regulates substantially different sets of genes in different lymphocyte populations, playing strongly context-dependent roles. Somewhat unusually for lineage-defining transcription factors with site-specific DNA binding activity, much of the reported chromatin binding of Bcl11b appears to be indirect, or guided in large part by interactions with other transcription factors. We describe evidence suggesting that a further way in which Bcl11b exerts such distinct stage-dependent functions is by nucleating changes in regional suites of epigenetic modifications through recruitment of multiple families of chromatin-modifying enzyme complexes. Herein we explore what is - and what remains to be - understood of the roles of Bcl11b, its cofactors, and how it modifies the epigenetic state of the cell to enforce its diverse set of context-specific transcriptional and developmental programs.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Sep 2;138(9):741-743.
Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells recognize microbial riboflavin metabolites presented by MR1 and play role in immune responses to microbial infections and tumors. We report here that absence of the transcription factor (TF) Bcl11b in mice alters predominantly MAIT17 cells in the thymus and further in the lung, both at steady state and following Salmonella infection. Transcriptomics and ChIP-seq analyses show direct control of TCR signaling program and position BCL11B upstream of essential TFs of MAIT17 program, including RORγt, ZBTB16 (PLZF), and MAF. BCL11B binding at key MAIT17 and at TCR signaling program genes in human MAIT cells occurred mostly in regions enriched for H3K27Ac. Unexpectedly, in human MAIT cells, BCL11B also bound at MAIT1 program genes, at putative active enhancers, although this program was not affected in mouse MAIT cells in the absence of Bcl11b. These studies endorse BCL11B as an essential TF for MAIT cells both in mice and humans.
BACKGROUND: Most patients with childhood-onset immune dysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, and enteropathy have no genetic diagnosis for their illness. These patients may undergo empirical immunosuppressive treatment with highly variable outcomes.OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine the genetic basis of disease in patients referred with Immune dysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked-like (IPEX-like) disease, but with no mutation in FOXP3; then to assess consequences of genetic diagnoses for clinical management.METHODS: Genomic DNA was sequenced using a panel of 462 genes implicated in inborn errors of immunity. Candidate mutations were characterized by genomic, transcriptional, and (for some) protein analysis.RESULTS: Of 123 patients with FOXP3-negative IPEX-like disease, 48 (39%) carried damaging germline mutations in 1 of the following 27 genes: AIRE, BACH2, BCL11B, CARD11, CARD14, CTLA4, IRF2BP2, ITCH, JAK1, KMT2D, LRBA, MYO5B, NFKB1, NLRC4, POLA1, POMP, RAG1, SH2D1A, SKIV2L, STAT1, STAT3, TNFAIP3, TNFRSF6/FAS, TNRSF13B/TACI, TOM1, TTC37, and XIAP. Many of these genes had not been previously associated with an IPEX-like diagnosis. For 42 of the 48 patients with genetic diagnoses, knowing the critical gene could have altered therapeutic management, including recommendations for targeted treatments and for or against hematopoietic cell transplantation.CONCLUSIONS: Many childhood disorders now bundled as "IPEX-like" disease are caused by individually rare, severe mutations in immune regulation genes. Most genetic diagnoses of these conditions yield clinically actionable findings. Barriers are lack of testing or lack of repeat testing if older technologies failed to provide a diagnosis.
Transcription factors are the major agents that read the regulatory sequence information in the genome to initiate changes in expression of specific genes, both in development and in physiological activation responses. Their actions depend on site-specific DNA binding and are largely guided by their individual DNA target sequence specificities. However, their action is far more conditional in a real developmental context than would be expected for simple reading of local genomic DNA sequence, which is common to all cells in the organism. They are constrained by slow-changing chromatin states and by interactions with other transcription factors, which affect their occupancy patterns of potential sites across the genome. These mechanisms lead to emergent discontinuities in function even for transcription factors with minimally changing expression. This is well revealed by diverse lineages of blood cells developing throughout life from hematopoietic stem cells, which use overlapping combinations of transcription factors to drive strongly divergent gene regulation programs. Here, using development of T lymphocytes from hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cells as a focus, recent evidence is reviewed on how binding specificity and dynamics, transcription factor cooperativity, and chromatin state changes impact the effective regulatory functions of key transcription factors including PU.1, Runx1, Notch-RBPJ, and Bcl11b.
Despite heterogeneity across the six layers of the mammalian cortex, all excitatory neurons are generated from a single founder population of neuroepithelial stem cells. However, how these progenitors alter their layer competence over time remains unknown. Here, we used human embryonic stem cell-derived cortical progenitors to examine the role of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and Notch signaling in influencing cell fate, assessing their impact on progenitor phenotype, cell-cycle kinetics, and layer specificity. Forced early cell-cycle exit, via Notch inhibition, caused rapid, near-exclusive generation of deep-layer VI neurons. In contrast, prolonged FGF2 promoted proliferation and maintained progenitor identity, delaying laminar progression via MAPK-dependent mechanisms. Inhibiting MAPK extended cell-cycle length and led to generation of layer-V CTIP2+ neurons by repressing alternative laminar fates. Taken together, FGF/MAPK regulates the proliferative/neurogenic balance in deep-layer corticogenesis and provides a resource for generating layer-specific neurons for studying development and disease.
Transcription factors play a crucial role in regulating biological processes such as cell growth, differentiation, organ development and cellular signaling. Within this group, proteins equipped with zinc finger motifs (ZFs) represent the largest family of sequence-specific DNA-binding transcription regulators. Numerous studies have proven the fundamental role of BCL11B for a variety of tissues and organs such as central nervous system, T cells, skin, teeth, and mammary glands. In a previous work we identified a novel atypical zinc finger domain (CCHC-ZF) which serves as a dimerization interface of BCL11B. This domain and formation of the dimer were shown to be critically important for efficient regulation of the BCL11B target genes and could therefore represent a promising target for novel drug therapies. Here, we report the structural basis for BCL11B-BCL11B interaction mediated by the N-terminal ZF domain. By combining structure prediction algorithms, enhanced sampling molecular dynamics and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) approaches, we identified amino acid residues indispensable for the formation of the single ZF domain and directly involved in forming the dimer interface. These findings not only provide deep insight into how BCL11B acquires its active structure but also represent an important step towards rational design or selection of potential inhibitors.
Individual olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) in the mouse main olfactory epithelium express a single odorant receptor (OR) gene from the repertoire of either class I or class II ORs. The transcription factor Bcl11b determines the OR class to be expressed in OSNs. The septal organ (SO), a small neuroepithelium located at the ventral base of the nasal septum, is considered as an olfactory subsystem because it expresses a specific subset of ORs. However, the mechanisms underlying the generation and differentiation of SO-OSN remain unknown. In the present study, we show that the generation and differentiation of SO-OSN employ the same genetic pathway as in the OSN lineage, which is initiated by the neuronal fate determinant factor Ascl1. Additionally, the key role of Bcl11b in the SO is demonstrated by the abnormal phenotypes of Bcl11b-deficient mice: significant reduction in the expression of OR genes and in the number of mature SO-OSNs. Although SO-OSNs are specified to express a subset of class II OR genes in wild-type mice, the Bcl11b deletion led to the expression of class I OR genes, while the expression of class II OR genes was significantly decreased, with one exception of Olfr15. These results indicate that Bcl11b is necessary for proper OR expression in SO-OSNs.
During development, progenitors often differentiate many cell generations after receiving signals. These delays must be robust yet tunable for precise population size control. Polycomb repressive mechanisms, involving histone H3 lysine-27 trimethylation (H3K27me3), restrain the expression of lineage-specifying genes in progenitors and may delay their activation and ensuing differentiation. Here, we elucidate an epigenetic switch controlling the T cell commitment gene Bcl11b that holds its locus in a heritable inactive state for multiple cell generations before activation. Integrating experiments and modeling, we identify a mechanism where H3K27me3 levels at Bcl11b, regulated by methyltransferase and demethylase activities, set the time delay at which the locus switches from a compacted, silent state to an extended, active state. This activation delay robustly spans many cell generations, is tunable by chromatin modifiers and transcription factors, and is independent of cell division. With their regulatory flexibility, such timed epigenetic switches may broadly control timing in development.
BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown great potential in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases, with fat being a more accessible source of MSCs. This study investigated the effect of human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs-Ad) exosomes on T lymphocytes and its role in atherosclerosis (AS).METHODS: The exosomes were preliminarily isolated hMSCs-Ad and co-cultured with human H9 T lymphocytes. The effects of hMSCs-Ad exosomes on the proliferation and apoptosis of H9 were examined by performing functional experiments. The serum lipid level and inflammatory factor level in tail vein of mice were measured by biochemical analyzer and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) respectively.RESULTS: The hMSCs-Ad-derived exosomes up-regulate the expression of micro (mi)R-125b-1-3p in H9 and AS arterial tissues. miR-125b-1-3p shared a targeted binding site with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/lymphoma 11B gene (BCL11B). miR-125b-1-3p negatively regulated the expression of BCL11B in H9, and that knocking down BCL11B in H9 promoted its apoptosis. Injection of hMSCs-Ad-derived exosomes via the tail vein effectively reduced blood lipid and inflammatory factors, and that relieved the symptoms of AS in AS model mice.CONCLUSIONS: miR-125b-1-3p was expressed in hMSCs-Ad exosomes and can promote T lymphocyte apoptosis and alleviate AS by down-regulating BCL11B expression. It provides potential molecular targets for the clinical treatment of AS.
Comment on    Sci Immunol. 2021 Mar 12;6(57):
Comment in    Sci Immunol. 2021 Mar 12;6(57):
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive subtype of leukemia with poor prognosis, and biomarkers and novel therapeutic targets are urgently needed for this disease. Our previous studies have found that inhibition of the B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) gene could significantly promote the apoptosis and growth retardation of T-ALL cells, but the molecular mechanism underlying this effect remains unclear. This study intends to investigate genes downstream of BCL11B and further explore its function in T-ALL cells. We found that PTK7 was a potential downstream target of BCL11B in T-ALL. Compared with the healthy individuals (HIs), PTK7 was overexpressed in T-ALL cells, and BCL11B expression was positively correlated with PTK7 expression. Importantly, BCL11B knockdown reduced PTK7 expression in T-ALL cells. Similar to the effects of BCL11B silencing, downregulation of PTK7 inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in Molt-4 cells via up-regulating the expression of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) and p27. Altogether, our studies suggest that PTK7 is a potential downstream target of BCL11B, and downregulation of PTK7 expression via inhibition of the BCL11B pathway induces growth retardation and apoptosis in T-ALL cells.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is characterized by the leukemogenic transformation of immature T cells, which accumulate an array of genetic and epigenetic lesions, leading to a sustained proliferation of abnormal T cells. Genetic alterations in the DNA repair genes, protooncogenes, transcription factors, and epigenetic modifiers have been studied in the past decade using next-generation sequencing and high-resolution copy number arrays. While other genomic lesions like chromosomal rearrangements, inversions, insertions, and gene fusions have been well studied at functional level, the mechanism of generation of driver mutations in T-ALL is the subject of current investigation. Novel oncogenic mutations in the TP53, BRCA2, PTEN, IL7R, RAS, NOTCH1, ETV6, BCL11B, WT1, DNMT3A, PRC2, PHF6, USP7, KDM6A and an array of other genes disrupt the genetic and epigenetic homeostasis in T-ALL. In this review, we have summarized the mechanistic role of deleterious driver mutations in T-ALL initiation and progression. We speculate that the formation of non-B DNA structures could be one of the primary reasons for the occurrence of different genomic lesions seen in T-ALL, which warrants further investigation. Understanding the mechanism behind the genesis of oncogenic mutations will pave the way to develop targeted therapies that can improve the overall survival and treatment outcome.
INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE: Epigenetic changes play a major role in mediating chemoresistance and relapse in pediatric ALL, and hence in current pilot study, we tried to identify DNA methylation, miRNA expression, and copy number variations (CNVs) in a cohort of relapse pediatric B-ALL cases.METHODOLOGY: DNA methylation, miRNA expression, and CNV analysis were performed in a total of 14, 16, and 18 cases as diagnosis-relapse samples. Briefly, DNA methylation was performed using Infinium HumanMethylation850 chip and data analyzed using RnBeads. miRNA was sequenced on illumina NextSeq500 platform for 20M 75bp SE reads and analyzed by DESeq2. CNVs were assessed by MLPA assay using the ALL P-335 probemix kit and analyzed by coffalyzer.net.RESULTS: On methylation analysis, oncogenes MYCN, MYB, and EGFR and tumor suppressor genes MDM4 & BCL11B were found differentially expressed as compared to controls (p-0.03). In addition, protooncogenes-AXL, HCK, MED12, and ETS2-were hypomethylated/overexpressed in 4 or more cases (P < .05). miRNA analysis revealed significant differential expression of miR-128-2-5p and miR-378C (p-4.4e-15 and p-6.4E-12) in relapse samples. CNV analysis revealed that frequency of good and intermediate/poor risk CNV profile at diagnosis was nearly equal (40% vs 60%). However, CDKN2A/2B and IKZF1 gene CNVs if present in initial diagnostic clone usually persisted in relapse clone.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Our pilot study highlights two miRNAs (miR-128-2-5p and miR-378C) as possible candidate biomarkers of relapsed B-ALL. However, these miRNAs and hypomethylated protooncogene signature noted in our data needs validation in a larger series of B-ALL.
Comment in    Circ Res. 2021 Mar 19;128(6):769-771.
HIV-1 latency generates reservoirs that prevent viral eradication by the current therapies. To find strategies toward an HIV cure, detailed understandings of the molecular mechanisms underlying establishment and persistence of the reservoirs are needed. The cellular transcription factor KAP1 is known as a potent repressor of gene transcription. Here we report that KAP1 represses HIV-1 gene expression in myeloid cells including microglial cells, the major reservoir of the central nervous system. Mechanistically, KAP1 interacts and colocalizes with the viral transactivator Tat to promote its degradation via the proteasome pathway and repress HIV-1 gene expression. In myeloid models of latent HIV-1 infection, the depletion of KAP1 increased viral gene elongation and reactivated HIV-1 expression. Bound to the latent HIV-1 promoter, KAP1 associates and cooperates with CTIP2, a key epigenetic silencer of HIV-1 expression in microglial cells. In addition, Tat and CTIP2 compete for KAP1 binding suggesting a dynamic modulation of the KAP1 cellular partners upon HIV-1 infection. Altogether, our results suggest that KAP1 contributes to the establishment and the persistence of HIV-1 latency in myeloid cells.
Erratum in    Nature. 2021 Apr;592(7856):E29.
Runt domain-related (Runx) transcription factors are essential for early T cell development in mice from uncommitted to committed stages. Single and double Runx knockouts via Cas9 show that target genes responding to Runx activity are not solely controlled by the dominant factor, Runx1. Instead, Runx1 and Runx3 are coexpressed in single cells; bind to highly overlapping genomic sites; and have redundant, collaborative functions regulating genes pivotal for T cell development. Despite stable combined expression levels across pro-T cell development, Runx1 and Runx3 preferentially activate and repress genes that change expression dynamically during lineage commitment, mostly activating T-lineage genes and repressing multipotent progenitor genes. Furthermore, most Runx target genes are sensitive to Runx perturbation only at one stage and often respond to Runx more for expression transitions than for maintenance. Contributing to this highly stage-dependent gene regulation function, Runx1 and Runx3 extensively shift their binding sites during commitment. Functionally distinct Runx occupancy sites associated with stage-specific activation or repression are also distinguished by different patterns of partner factor cobinding. Finally, Runx occupancies change coordinately at numerous clustered sites around positively or negatively regulated targets during commitment. This multisite binding behavior may contribute to a developmental "ratchet" mechanism making commitment irreversible.
T-Cell development is a major branch of lymphoid development and a key output of hematopoiesis, especially in early life, but the molecular requirements for T-cell potential have remained obscure. Considerable advances have now been made toward solving this problem through single-cell transcriptome studies, interfaced with in vitro differentiation assays that monitor potential efficiently at the single-cell level. This review focuses on a series of recent reports studying mouse and human early T-cell precursors, both in the developing fetus and in stringently purified postnatal samples of intrathymic and prethymic T-lineage precursors. Cross-comparison of results reveals a robustly conserved core program in mouse and human, but with some informative and provocative variations between species and between ontogenic states. Repeated findings are the multipotent progenitor regulatory signature of thymus-seeding cells and the proximity of the T-cell program to dendritic cell programs, especially to plasmacytoid dendritic cells in humans.
Intrathymic development of committed progenitor (pro)-T cells from multipotent hematopoietic precursors offers an opportunity to dissect the molecular circuitry establishing cell identity in response to environmental signals. This transition encompasses programmed shutoff of stem/progenitor genes, upregulation of T cell specification genes, proliferation, and ultimately commitment. To explain these features in light of reported cis-acting chromatin effects and experimental kinetic data, we develop a three-level dynamic model of commitment based upon regulation of the commitment-linked gene Bcl11b. The levels are (1) a core gene regulatory network (GRN) architecture from transcription factor (TF) perturbation data, (2) a stochastically controlled chromatin-state gate, and (3) a single-cell proliferation model validated by experimental clonal growth and commitment kinetic assays. Using RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) measurements of genes encoding key TFs and measured bulk population dynamics, this single-cell model predicts state-switching kinetics validated by measured clonal proliferation and commitment times. The resulting multi-scale model provides a mechanistic framework for dissecting commitment dynamics.
Type 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2) contribute to immune homeostasis, protective immunity and tissue repair. Here we demonstrate that functional ILC2 cells can arise in the embryonic thymus from shared T cell precursors, preceding the emergence of CD4+CD8+ (double-positive) T cells. Thymic ILC2 cells migrated to mucosal tissues, with colonization of the intestinal lamina propria. Expression of the transcription factor RORα repressed T cell development while promoting ILC2 development in the thymus. From RNA-seq, assay for transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing (ATAC-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-seq) data, we propose a revised transcriptional circuit to explain the co-development of T cells and ILC2 cells from common progenitors in the thymus. When Notch signaling is present, BCL11B dampens Nfil3 and Id2 expression, permitting E protein-directed T cell commitment. However, concomitant expression of RORα overrides the repression of Nfil3 and Id2 repression, allowing ID2 to repress E proteins and promote ILC2 differentiation. Thus, we demonstrate that RORα expression represents a critical checkpoint at the bifurcation of the T cell and ILC2 lineages in the embryonic thymus.
High-altitude retinopathy (HAR) is an ocular manifestation of acute oxygen deficiency at high altitudes. Although the pathophysiology of HAR has been revealed by many studies in recent years, the molecular mechanism is not yet clear. Our study aimed to systematically identify the genes and microRNA (miRNA) and explore the potential biomarkers associated with HAR by integrated bioinformatics analysis. The mRNA and miRNA expression profiles were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. We performed Gene Ontology functional annotations and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analysis. Potential target gene analysis and miRNA-mRNA network analysis were also conducted. Quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to validate the results of the bioinformatics analysis. Through a series of bioinformatics analyses and experiments, we selected 16 differentially expressed miRNAs (DE-miRNAs) and 157 differentially expressed genes related to acute mountain sickness (AMS) and constructed a miRNA-mRNA network containing 240 relationship pairs. The hub genes were filtered from the protein-protein interaction network: IL7R, FOS, IL10, FCGR2A, DDX3X, CDK1, BCL11B and HNRNPH1, which were all down-regulated in the AMS group. Then, nine up-regulated DE-miRNAs and eight hub genes were verified by qRT-PCR in our hypoxia-induced HAR cell model. The expression of miR-3177-3p, miR-369-3p, miR-603, miR-495, miR-4791, miR-424-5p, FOS, IL10 and IL7R was consistent with our bioinformatics results. In conclusion, FOS, IL10, IL-7R and 7 DE-miRNAs may participate in the development of HAR. Our findings will contribute to the identification of biomarkers and promote the effective prevention and treatment of HAR in the future.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a highly heterogeneous disease that remains untreatable. MicroRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) play important roles in the pathogenesis of leukemia. miR-21 is highly expressed in multiple types of human cancer and displays oncogenic activities; however, the clinical significance of miR-21 in AML remains unclear. In the present study, it was demonstrated that miR-21 levels were high in patients with AML and in AML cell lines. Further experiments demonstrated that overexpression of miR-21 in Thp-1 human monocytes derived from acute mononuclear leukemia peripheral blood promoted cell proliferation, while downregulation of miR-21-5p, a mature sequence derived from the 5' end of the miR-21 stem-loop precursor (another mature sequence, miR-21-3p, is derived form 3' end of miR-21), inhibited cell proliferation. Specifically, it was observed that overexpression of miR-21 could promote the transition of Thp-1 cells into the S and G2/M phases of the cell cycle, as shown by flow cytometry. Furthermore, inhibition of miR-21-5p arrested cells in the S and G2/M phases. Finally, BCL11B was determined to be a functional target of miR-21-5p by luciferase assays. Our study revealed functional and mechanistic associations between miR-21 and BCL11B in Thp-1 cells, which could serve to guide clinical treatment of AML.
Ctip2/Bcl11b is a zinc finger transcription factor with dual action (repression/activation) that couples epigenetic regulation to gene transcription during the development of various tissues. It is involved in a variety of physiological responses under healthy and pathological conditions. Its role and mechanisms of action are best characterized in the immune and nervous systems. Furthermore, its implication in the development and homeostasis of other various tissues has also been reported. In the present review, we describe its role in skin development, adipogenesis, tooth formation and cranial suture ossification. Experimental data from several studies demonstrate the involvement of Bcl11b in the control of the balance between cell proliferation and differentiation during organ formation and repair, and more specifically in the context of stem cell self-renewal and fate determination. The impact of mutations in the coding sequences of Bcl11b on the development of diseases such as craniosynostosis is also presented. Finally, we discuss genome-wide association studies that suggest a potential influence of single nucleotide polymorphisms found in the 3' regulatory region of Bcl11b on the homeostasis of the cardiovascular system.
Background: BCL11B encodes B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 11B, a transcription factor that participates in the differentiation and migration of neurons and lymphocyte cells. De novo mutations of BCL11B have been associated with neurodevelopmental disorder and immunodeficiency, such as immunodeficiency 49 (IMD49) and intellectual developmental disorder with speech delay, dysmorphic facies, and T-cell abnormalities (IDDSFTA). However, the pathogenesis of the neurodevelopmental disorder and T-cell deficiency is still mysterious. The strategy to distinguish these two diseases in detail is also unclear. Methods: A patient with unique clinical features was identified. Multiple examinations were applied for evaluation. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and Sanger sequencing were also performed for the identification of the disease-causing mutation. Results: We reported a 17-month-old girl with intellectual disability, speech impairment, and delay in motor development. She presented with mild dysmorphic facial features and weak functional movement. MRI indicated the abnormal myelination of the white matter. Immunological analysis showed normal levels of RTEs and γδT cells but a deficiency of naive T cells. Genetic sequencing identified a de novo heterozygous frameshift mutation c.1192_1196delAGCCC in BCL11B. Conclusions: An IDDSFTA patient of East Asian origin was reported. The unreported neurological display, immunophenotype, and a novel disease-causing mutation of the patient extended the spectrum of clinical features and genotypes of IDDSFTA.
The endocannabinoid (eCB) system, via the cannabinoid CB1 receptor, regulates neurodevelopment by controlling neural progenitor proliferation and neurogenesis. CB1 receptor signalling in vivo drives corticofugal deep layer projection neuron development through the regulation of BCL11B and SATB2 transcription factors. Here, we investigated the role of eCB signalling in mouse pluripotent embryonic stem cell-derived neuronal differentiation. Characterization of the eCB system revealed increased expression of eCB-metabolizing enzymes, eCB ligands and CB1 receptors during neuronal differentiation. CB1 receptor knockdown inhibited neuronal differentiation of deep layer neurons and increased upper layer neuron generation, and this phenotype was rescued by CB1 re-expression. Pharmacological regulation with CB1 receptor agonists or elevation of eCB tone with a monoacylglycerol lipase inhibitor promoted neuronal differentiation of deep layer neurons at the expense of upper layer neurons. Patch-clamp analyses revealed that enhancing cannabinoid signalling facilitated neuronal differentiation and functionality. Noteworthy, incubation with CB1 receptor agonists during human iPSC-derived cerebral organoid formation also promoted the expansion of BCL11B+ neurons. These findings unveil a cell-autonomous role of eCB signalling that, via the CB1 receptor, promotes mouse and human deep layer cortical neuron development.
The role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in how microbiota influence the host intestinal immune system is not fully understood. We compared the expression profiles of miRNAs and mRNAs in lamina propria leukocytes (LPL) in the large intestines of germ-free (GF) and specific pathogen-free (SPF) mice. Microarray analysis revealed different expression profiles of miRNAs and mRNAs between GF and SPF mice. Quantitative real time-PCR (qRT-PCR) showed that the level of miR-200 family members was significantly higher in SPF mice than in GF mice. In silico prediction followed by qRT-PCR suggested that Bcl11b, Ets1, Gbp7, Stat5b, and Zeb1 genes were downregulated by the miR-200 family. Western blotting revealed that the expression of BCL11B and ETS-1, but not ZEB1, in large intestinal LPL was significantly lower in SPF mice than in GF mice. Interleukin (IL)-2 production in cultured LPL upon stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and ionomycin for 24 h was significantly lower in SPF mice than in GF mice. Conventionalization of GF mice substantially recapitulated SPF mice in terms of the expression of miR-200 family members and their target genes and IL-2 production in large intestinal LPL. Considering that BCL11B and ETS-1 reportedly function as transcription factors to activate the Il2 gene, we propose that the presence of gut commensals suppresses IL-2 production in large intestinal LPL, at least in part through post-transcriptional downregulation of Bcl11b and Ets1 genes by miR-200 family members.
Accumulating evidence indicates that hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumorigenesis, recurrence, metastasis, and therapeutic resistance are strongly associated with liver cancer stem cells (CSCs), a rare subpopulation of highly tumorigenic cells with self-renewal capacity and differentiation potential. Previous studies identified B cell leukemia/lymphoma-11b (BCL11B) as a novel tumor suppressor with impressive capacity to restrain CSC traits. However, the implications of BCL11B in HCC remain unclear. In this study, we found that low BCL11B expression was an independent indicator for shorter overall survival (OS) and time to recurrence (TTR) for HCC patients with surgical resection. In vitro and in vivo experiments confirmed BCL11B as a tumor suppressor in HCC with inhibitory effects on proliferation, cell cycle progression, apoptosis, and mobility. Furthermore, BCL11B could suppress CSC traits, as evidenced by dramatically decreased tumor spheroid formation, self-renewal potential and drug resistance. A Cignal Finder Array and dual-luciferase activity reporter assays revealed that BCL11B could activate the transcription of P73 via an E2F1-dependent manner. Thus, we concluded that BCL11B is a strong suppressor of retaining CSC traits in HCC. Ectopic expression of BCL11B might be a promising strategy for anti-HCC treatment with the potential to cure HBV-related HCC regardless of P53 mutation status.
A common approach to benchmarking of single-cell transcriptomics tools is to generate synthetic datasets that statistically resemble experimental data. However, most existing single-cell simulators do not incorporate transcription factor-gene regulatory interactions that underlie expression dynamics. Here, we present SERGIO, a simulator of single-cell gene expression data that models the stochastic nature of transcription as well as regulation of genes by multiple transcription factors according to a user-provided gene regulatory network. SERGIO can simulate any number of cell types in steady state or cells differentiating to multiple fates. We show that datasets generated by SERGIO are statistically comparable to experimental data generated by Illumina HiSeq2000, Drop-seq, Illumina 10X chromium, and Smart-seq. We use SERGIO to benchmark several single-cell analysis tools, including GRN inference methods, and identify Tcf7, Gata3, and Bcl11b as key drivers of T cell differentiation by performing in silico knockout experiments. SERGIO is freely available for download here: https://github.com/PayamDiba/SERGIO.
Tcf-1 (encoded by Tcf7) not only plays critical roles in promoting T cell development and differentiation but also has been identified as a tumor suppressor involved in preventing T cell malignancy. However, the comprehensive mechanisms of Tcf-1 involved in T cell transformation remain poorly understood. In this study, Tcf7fl/fl mice were crossed with Vav-cre, Lck-cre, or Cd4-cre mice to delete Tcf-1 conditionally at the beginning of the HSC, DN2-DN3, or DP stage, respectively. The defective T cell development phenotypes became gradually less severe as the deletion stage became more advanced in distinct mouse models. Interestingly, consistent with Tcf7-/- mice, Tcf7fl/flVav-cre mice developed aggressive T cell lymphoma within 45 weeks, but no tumors were generated in Tcf7fl/flLck-cre or Tcf7fl/flCd4-cre mice. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNA-seq) indicated that ablation of Tcf-1 at distinct phases can subdivide DN1 cells into three clusters (C1, C2, and C3) and DN2-DN3 cells into three clusters (C4, C5, and C6). Moreover, Tcf-1 deficiency redirects bifurcation among divergent cell fates, and clusters C1 and C4 exhibit high potential for leukemic transformation. Mechanistically, we found that Tcf-1 directly binds and mediates chromatin accessibility for both typical T cell regulators and proto-oncogenes, including Myb, Mycn, Runx1, and Lyl1 in the DN1 phase and Lef1, Id2, Dtx1, Fyn, Bcl11b, and Zfp36l2 in the DN2-DN3 phase. The aberrant expression of these genes due to Tcf-1 deficiency in very early T cells contributes to subsequent tumorigenesis. Thus, we demonstrated that Tcf-1 plays stage-specific roles in regulating early thymocyte development and transformation, providing new insights and evidence for clinical trials on T-ALL leukemia.
We have analyzed the expression of key genes orchestrating tail regeneration in lizard under normal and scarring conditions after cauterization. At 1-day post-cauterization (1 dpc), the injured blastema contains degenerating epithelial and mesenchymal cells, numerous mast cells, and immune cells. At 3 and 7 dpc, a stratified wound epidermis is forming while fibrocytes give rise to a scarring connective tissue. Oncogenes such as wnt2b, egfl6, wnt6, and mycn and the tumor suppressor arhgap28 are much more expressed than other oncogenes (hmga2, rhov, fgf8, fgfr4, tert, shh) and tumor suppressors (apcdd1, p63, rb, fat2, bcl11b) in the normal blastema and at 7 dpc. Blastemas at 3 dpc feature the lowest upregulation of most genes, likely derived from damage after cauterization. Immunomodulator genes nfatc4 and lef1 are more expressed at 7 dpc than in normal blastema and 3 dpc suggesting the induction of immune response favoring scarring. Balanced over-expression of oncogenes, tumor suppressor genes, and immune modulator genes determines regulation of cell proliferation (anti-oncogenic), of movement (anti-metastatic), and immunosuppression in the normal blastema. Significant higher expression of oncogenes wnt2b and egfl6 in normal blastema and higher expression of the tumor suppressor arhgap28 in the 7 dpc blastema indicate that they are among the key/master genes that determine the regulated regeneration of the tail.
T cell factor 1 (Tcf1) is the first T cell-specific protein induced by Notch signaling in the thymus, leading to the activation of two major target genes, Gata3 and Bcl11b. Tcf1 deficiency results in partial arrests in T cell development, high apoptosis, and increased development of B and myeloid cells. Phenotypically, seemingly fully T cell-committed thymocytes with Tcf1 deficiency have promiscuous gene expression and an altered epigenetic profile and can dedifferentiate into more immature thymocytes and non-T cells. Restoring Bcl11b expression in Tcf1-deficient cells rescues T cell development but does not strongly suppress the development of non-T cells; in contrast, expressing Gata3 suppresses their development but does not rescue T cell development. Thus, T cell development is controlled by a minimal transcription factor network involving Notch signaling, Tcf1, and the subsequent division of labor between Bcl11b and Gata3, thereby ensuring a properly regulated T cell gene expression program.
While abnormal neurodevelopment contributes to schizophrenia (SCZ) risk, there is also evidence to support a role for immune dysfunction in SCZ. BCL11B, associated with SCZ in genome-wide association study (GWAS), is a transcription factor that regulates the differentiation and development of cells in the central nervous and immune systems. Here, we use functional genomics data from studies of BCL11B to investigate the contribution of neuronal and immune processes to SCZ pathophysiology. We identified the gene targets of BCL11B in brain striatal cells (n = 223 genes), double negative 4 (DN4) developing T cells (n = 114 genes) and double positive (DP) developing T cells (n = 518 genes) using an integrated analysis of RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data. No gene-set was enriched for genes containing common variants associated with SCZ but the DP gene-set was enriched for genes containing missense de novo mutations (DNMs; p = .001) using data from 3,447 SCZ trios. Post hoc analysis revealed the enrichment to be stronger for DP genes negatively regulated by BCL11B. Biological processes enriched for genes negatively regulated by BCL11B in DP gene-set included immune system development and cytokine signaling. These analyses, leveraging a GWAS-identified SCZ risk gene and data on gene expression and transcription factor binding, indicate that DNMs in immune pathways contribute to SCZ risk.
The development of TCRαβ and TCRγδ T cells comprises a step-wise process in which regulatory events control differentiation and lineage outcome. To clarify these mechanisms, we employed RNA-sequencing, ATAC-sequencing and ChIPmentation on well-defined thymocyte subsets that represent the continuum of human T cell development. The chromatin accessibility dynamics show clear stage specificity and reveal that human T cell-lineage commitment is marked by GATA3- and BCL11B-dependent closing of PU.1 sites. A temporary increase in H3K27me3 without open chromatin modifications is unique for β-selection, whereas emerging γδ T cells, which originate from common precursors of β-selected cells, show large chromatin accessibility changes due to strong T cell receptor (TCR) signaling. Furthermore, we unravel distinct chromatin landscapes between CD4+ and CD8+ αβ-lineage cells that support their effector functions and reveal gene-specific mechanisms that define mature T cells. This resource provides a framework for studying gene regulatory mechanisms that drive normal and malignant human T cell development.
BACKGROUND Sarcoidosis (SARC) is a multisystem inflammatory disease of unknown etiology and pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) is caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Both of these diseases affect lungs and lymph nodes and share similar clinical manifestations. However, the underlying mechanisms for the similarities and differences in genetic characteristics of SARC and PTB remain unclear. MATERIAL AND METHODS Three datasets (GSE16538, GSE20050, and GSE19314) were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in SARC and PTB were identified using GEO2R online analyzer and Venn diagram software. Functional enrichment analysis was performed using Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) and R packages. Two protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed using Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes database, and module analysis was performed using Cytoscape. Hub genes were identified using area under the receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. RESULTS We identified 228 DEGs, including 56 common SARC-PTB DEGs (enriched in interferon-gamma-mediated signaling, response to gamma radiation, and immune response) and 172 SARC-only DEGs (enriched in immune response, cellular calcium ion homeostasis, and dendritic cell chemotaxis). Potential biomarkers for SARC included CBX5, BCL11B, and GPR18. CONCLUSIONS We identified potential biomarkers that can be used as candidates for diagnosis and/or treatment of patients with SARC.
Comment in    Eur J Med Genet. 2022 Nov;65(11):104635.
PURPOSE: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are held accountable for the progress of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). In the presented study, the authors evaluated the prognostic value of CSC markers in two particular HNSCC cohorts.METHODS: This two cohort study consisted of 85 patients with advanced stage HNSCC, treated with primary radio(chemo)therapy (pRCT), and 95 patients with HNSCC, treated with surgery and partially adjuvant radio(chemo)therapy. Overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), and disease-specific survival (DSS) were assessed. Samples were assessed for the expression of different molecular stem cell markers (ALDH1, BCL11B, BMI‑1, and CD44).RESULTS: In the pRCT cohort, none of the baseline patient and tumor features exhibited a statistically significant relation with survival in either the cohort or the human papillomavirus (HPV)-stratified subcohorts. High expression of BMI‑1 significantly decreased OS and DFS, while high expression of CD44 decreased all modes of survival. Multivariate analysis showed significant prognostic influence for all tested CSC markers, with high BMI‑1 and CD44 decreasing survival (BMI-1: OS, DFS, DSS; CD44: OS, DFS) and high ALDH1 and BCL11B showing a beneficial effect on survival (ALDH1: OS, DFS; BCL11B: OS, DSS). In the surgical cohort, classical prognosticators such as HPV status, R1 resection, and nodal status in HPV-negative HNSCC played a significant role, but the tested CSC markers showed no significant effect on prognosis.CONCLUSION: Although validation in independent cohorts is still needed, testing for CSC markers in patients with advanced or late stage HNSCC might be beneficial, especially if many comorbidities exist or disease is irresectable. The findings might guide the development and earlier use of targeted therapies in the future.
Transcription factors regulate multiple processes during brain development and in the adult brain, from brain patterning to differentiation and maturation of highly specialized neurons as well as establishing and maintaining the functional neuronal connectivity. The members of the zinc-finger transcription factor family Bcl11 are mainly expressed in the hematopoietic and central nervous systems regulating the expression of numerous genes involved in a wide range of pathways. In the brain Bcl11 proteins are required to regulate progenitor cell proliferation as well as differentiation, migration, and functional integration of neural cells. Mutations of the human Bcl11 genes lead to anomalies in multiple systems including neurodevelopmental impairments like intellectual disabilities and autism spectrum disorders.
A unique combination of transcription factor expression and projection neuron identity demarcates each layer of the cerebral cortex. During mouse and human cortical development, the transcription factor CTIP2 specifies neurons that project subcerebrally, while SATB2 specifies neuronal projections via the corpus callosum, a large axon tract connecting the two neocortical hemispheres that emerged exclusively in eutherian mammals. Marsupials comprise the sister taxon of eutherians but do not have a corpus callosum; their intercortical commissural neurons instead project via the anterior commissure, similar to egg-laying monotreme mammals. It remains unknown whether divergent transcriptional networks underlie these cortical wiring differences. Here, we combine birth-dating analysis, retrograde tracing, gene overexpression and knockdown, and axonal quantification to compare the functions of CTIP2 and SATB2 in neocortical development, between the eutherian mouse and the marsupial fat-tailed dunnart. We demonstrate a striking degree of structural and functional homology, whereby CTIP2 or SATB2 of either species is sufficient to promote a subcerebral or commissural fate, respectively. Remarkably, we reveal a substantial delay in the onset of developmental SATB2 expression in mice as compared to the equivalent stage in dunnarts, with premature SATB2 overexpression in mice to match that of dunnarts resulting in a marsupial-like projection fate via the anterior commissure. Our results suggest that small alterations in the timing of regulatory gene expression may underlie interspecies differences in neuronal projection fate specification.
γδ and αβ T cells have unique roles in immunity and both originate in the thymus from T-lineage committed precursors through distinct but unclear mechanisms. Here, we show that Notch1 activation is more stringently required for human γδ development compared to αβ-lineage differentiation and performed paired mRNA and miRNA profiling across 11 discrete developmental stages of human T cell development in an effort to identify the potential Notch1 downstream mechanism. Our data suggest that the miR-17-92 cluster is a Notch1 target in immature thymocytes and that miR-17 can restrict BCL11B expression in these Notch-dependent T cell precursors. We show that enforced miR-17 expression promotes human γδ T cell development and, consistently, that BCL11B is absolutely required for αβ but less for γδ T cell development. This study suggests that human γδ T cell development is mediated by a stage-specific Notch-driven negative feedback loop through which miR-17 temporally restricts BCL11B expression and provides functional insights into the developmental role of the disease-associated genes BCL11B and the miR-17-92 cluster in a human context.
The exact relationships between group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) and Th2 cells in type 2 pathology, as well as the mechanisms that restrain the responses of these cells, remain poorly defined. Here we examined the roles of ILC2s and Th2 cells in type 2 lung pathology in vivo using germline and conditional Relb-deficient mice. We found that mice with germline deletion of Relb (Relb-/-) spontaneously developed prominent type 2 pathology in the lung, which contrasted sharply with mice with T-cell-specific Relb deletion (Relbf/fCd4-Cre), which were healthy with no observed autoimmune pathology. We also found that in contrast to wild-type B6 mice, Relb-deficient mice showed markedly expanded ILC2s but not ILC1s or ILC3s. Moreover, adoptive transfer of naive CD4+ T cells into Rag1-/-Relb-/- hosts induced prominent type 2 lung pathology, which was inhibited by depletion of ILC2s. Mechanistically, we showed that Relb deletion led to enhanced expression of Bcl11b, a key transcription factor for ILC2s. We concluded that RelB plays a critical role in restraining ILC2s, primarily by suppressing Bcl11b activity, and consequently inhibits type 2 lung pathology in vivo.
Ewing sarcoma (EwS) is an aggressive cancer displaying an undifferentiated small-round-cell histomorphology that can be easily confused with a broad spectrum of differential diagnoses. Using comparative transcriptomics and immunohistochemistry (IHC), we previously identified BCL11B and GLG1 as potential specific auxiliary IHC markers for EWSR1-FLI1-positive EwS. Herein, we aimed at validating the specificity of both markers in a far larger and independent cohort of EwS (including EWSR1-ERG-positive cases) and differential diagnoses. Furthermore, we evaluated their intra-tumoral expression heterogeneity. Thus, we stained tissue microarrays from 133 molecularly confirmed EwS cases and 320 samples from morphological mimics, as well as a series of patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models for BCL11B, GLG1, and CD99, and systematically assessed the immunoreactivity and optimal cut-offs for each marker. These analyses demonstrated that high BCL11B and/or GLG1 immunoreactivity in CD99-positive cases had a specificity of 97.5% and an accuracy of 87.4% for diagnosing EwS solely by IHC, and that the markers were expressed by EWSR1-ERG-positive EwS. Only little intra-tumoral heterogeneity in immunoreactivity was observed for differential diagnoses. These results indicate that BCL11B and GLG1 may help as specific auxiliary IHC markers in diagnosing EwS in conjunction with CD99, especially if confirmatory molecular diagnostics are not available.
Author information:(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing Key Laboratory of Child Infection and Immunity, Chongqing 400014, China.
Human Ku heterodimeric protein composed of Ku70 and Ku80 subunits plays an important role in the non-homologous end-joining DNA repair pathway as a sensor of double strand DNA breaks. Ku is also involved in numerous cellular processes, and in some of them it acts in an RNA-dependent manner. However, RNA binding properties of the human Ku have not been well studied. Here we have analyzed interactions of a recombinant Ku heterodimer with a set of RNAs of various structure as well as eCLIP (enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation) data for human Ku70. As a result, we have proposed a consensus RNA structure preferable for the Ku binding that is a hairpin possessing a bulge just near GpG sequence-containing terminal loop. 7SK snRNA is a scaffold for a ribonucleoprotein complex (7SK snRNP), which is known to participate in transcription regulation. We have shown that the recombinant Ku specifically binds a G-rich loop of hairpin 1 within 7SK snRNA. Moreover, Ku protein has been co-precipitated from HEK 293T cells with endogenous 7SK snRNA and such proteins included in 7SK snRNP as HEXIM1, Cdk9 and CTIP2. Ku and Cdk9 binding is found to be RNA-independent, meanwhile HEXIM1 and Ku co-precipitation depended on the presence of intact 7SK snRNA. The latter result has been confirmed using recombinant HEXIM1 and Ku proteins. Colocalization of Ku and CTIP2 was additionally confirmed by confocal microscopy. These results allow us to propose human Ku as a new component of the 7SK snRNP complex.
The piriform cortex (paleocortex) is the olfactory cortex or the primary cortex for the sense of smell. It receives the olfactory input from the mitral and tufted cells of the olfactory bulb and is involved in the processing of information pertaining to odors. The piriform cortex and the adjoining neocortex have different cytoarchitectures; while the former has a three-layered structure, the latter has a six-layered structure. The regulatory mechanisms underlying the building of the six-layered neocortex are well established; in contrast, less is known about of the regulatory mechanisms responsible for structure formation of the piriform cortex. The differences as well as similarities in the regulatory mechanisms between the neocortex and the piriform cortex remain unclear. Here, the expression of neocortical layer-specific genes in the piriform cortex was examined. Two sublayers were found to be distinguished in layer II of the piriform cortex using Ctip2/Bcl11b and Brn1/Pou3f3. The sequential expression pattern of Ctip2 and Brn1 in the piriform cortex was similar to that detected in the neocortex, although the laminar arrangement in the piriform cortex exhibited an outside-in arrangement, unlike that observed in the neocortex.
The syndromic autism spectrum disorder (ASD) Timothy syndrome (TS) is caused by a point mutation in the alternatively spliced exon 8A of the calcium channel Cav1.2. Using mouse brain and human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), we provide evidence that the TS mutation prevents a normal developmental switch in Cav1.2 exon utilization, resulting in persistent expression of gain-of-function mutant channels during neuronal differentiation. In iPSC models, the TS mutation reduces the abundance of SATB2-expressing cortical projection neurons, leading to excess CTIP2+ neurons. We show that expression of TS-Cav1.2 channels in the embryonic mouse cortex recapitulates these differentiation defects in a calcium-dependent manner and that in utero Cav1.2 gain-and-loss of function reciprocally regulates the abundance of these neuronal populations. Our findings support the idea that disruption of developmentally regulated calcium channel splicing patterns instructively alters differentiation in the developing cortex, providing important in vivo insights into the pathophysiology of a syndromic ASD.
Persistence of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) latency and residual immune activation remain major barriers to treatment in patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). In the present study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms of persistent HIV infection and residual immune activation in HAART-treated patients. We showed that the expression level of B-cell CLL/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) was significantly increased in CD4+T cells from HIV-infected patients undergoing HAART, and this was accompanied by increased expression of BCL11B-associated chromatin modifiers and inflammatory factors in comparison to healthy controls and untreated patients with HIV. In vitro assays showed that BCL11B significantly inhibited HIV-1 long terminal repeat (LTR)-mediated transcription. Knockdown of BCL11B resulted in the activation of HIV latent cells, and dissociation of BCL11B and its related chromatin remodeling factors from the HIV LTR. Our findings suggested that increased expression of BCL11B and its related chromatin modifiers contribute to HIV-1 transcriptional silencing, and alteration of BCL11B levels might lead to abnormal transcription and inflammation.
Comment on    J Exp Med. 2020 Jan 6;217(1):
Approximately 18% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cases express a fusion transcript. However, few fusions are recurrent across AML and the identification of these rare chimeras is of interest to characterize AML patients. Here, we studied the transcriptome of 8 adult AML patients with poorly described chromosomal translocation(s), with the aim of identifying novel and rare fusion transcripts. We integrated RNA-sequencing data with multiple approaches including computational analysis, Sanger sequencing, fluorescence in situ hybridization and in vitro studies to assess the oncogenic potential of the ZEB2-BCL11B chimera. We detected 7 different fusions with partner genes involving transcription factors (OAZ-MAFK, ZEB2-BCL11B), tumor suppressors (SAV1-GYPB, PUF60-TYW1, CNOT2-WT1) and rearrangements associated with the loss of NF1 (CPD-PXT1, UTP6-CRLF3). Notably, ZEB2-BCL11B rearrangements co-occurred with FLT3 mutations and were associated with a poorly differentiated or mixed phenotype leukemia. Although the fusion alone did not transform murine c-Kit+ bone marrow cells, 45.4% of 14q32 non-rearranged AML cases were also BCL11B-positive, suggesting a more general and complex mechanism of leukemogenesis associated with BCL11B expression. Overall, by combining different approaches, we described rare fusion events contributing to the complexity of AML and we linked the expression of some chimeras to genomic alterations hitting known genes in AML.
Allergic asthma is a highly prevalent airway disease triggered by hyperresponsiveness to inhaled allergens. Interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7) has been shown to be highly expressed in nasal aspirates from children with asthma. Type 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) represent the major player in allergic airway inflammation. The role of IRF7 in ILC2-driven asthma remains to be explored. Here, we report that IRF7 expression in murine lung ILC2s is dramatically induced upon papain or interleukin-33 (IL-33) stimulation. ILC2s from asthma patients display a much higher level of IRF7 than those from healthy donors. Deficiency of IRF7 in mice significantly impairs the expansion and function of lung ILC2s in multiple models of allergic asthma. Furthermore, the regulation of ILC2s by IRF7 is cell intrinsic and mediated by the transcription factor Bcl11b. These observations identify IRF7 as a regulator of lung ILC2s, which may have immunotherapeutic value in allergic asthma.
The purification of pluripotent stem cell-derived cortico-fugal projection neurons (PSC-CFuPNs) is useful for disease modeling and cell therapies related to the dysfunction of cortical motor neurons, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or stroke. However, no CFuPN-specific surface markers for the purification are known. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported as alternatives to surface markers. Here, we investigated this possibility by applying the miRNA switch, an mRNA technology, to enrich PSC-CFuPNs. An array study of miRNAs in mouse fetal brain tissue revealed that CFuPNs highly express miRNA-124-3p at E14.5 and E16.5. In response, we designed a miRNA switched that responds to miRNA-124-3p and applied it to mouse embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived cortical neurons. Flow cytometry and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analyses showed the miRNA-124-3p switch enriched CFuPN-like cells from this population. Immunocytechemical analysis confirmed vGlut1/Emx1/Bcl11b triple positive CFuPN-like cells were increased from 6.5 to 42%. Thus, our miRNA-124-3p switch can uniquely enrich live CFuPN-like cells from mouse ESC-derived cortical neurons.
Cancer immune surveillance is an important host protection process that inhibits carcinogenesis and maintains cellular homeostasis. The major histocompatibility complex class I-related molecules A and B (MICA and MICB) are NKG2D ligands that play important roles in tumor immune surveillance. In the present study, by a combined bioinformatics prediction and experimental approach, we identify BCL11B 3'-UTR as a putative MICA and MICB ceRNA. We demonstrate in several human cell lines of different origins that the knockdown of BCL11B downregulates surface expression of MICA and MICB. Furthermore, we demonstrate miRNA dependency of BCL11B-mediated MICA and MICB regulation in Dicer knockdown HCT116 cells. In addition, MICA/B-targeting miRNAs (miR-17, miR-93, miR-20a, miR-20b, miR-106a, and miR-106b) repressed the expression of BCL11B by targeting its 3'-UTR. Moreover, we showed that the BCL11B knockdown-mediated downregulation of MICA/B resulted in reduced NK cell elimination in vitro and in vivo through reduced recognition of NKG2D. Of particular significance, BCL11B displays tumor-suppressive properties. The expression of BCL11B is downregulated in colon cancer tissues and associated with a reduced median survival of colon cancer patients. Taken together, our study revealed a new mechanism of BCL11B that prevents immune evasion of cancerous cells by upregulation of the NKG2D ligands MICA and MICB in a ceRNA manner.
The retrosplenial cortex (Rsp) is a transitional cortex located between the neocortex and archicortex, but the molecular mechanism specifying Rsp from the archicortex remains elusive. We here report that the transcription factor Satb2 is required for specifying Rsp identity during its morphogenesis. In Satb2 CKO mice, the boundary between the Rsp and archicortex [i.e., subiculum (SubC)] disappears as early as E17.5, and Rsp efferent projection is aberrant. Rsp-specific genes are lost, whereas SubC-specific genes are ectopically expressed in Rsp of Satb2 CKO mice. Furthermore, cell-autonomous role of Satb2 in maintaining Rsp neuron identity is revealed by inactivation of Satb2 in Rsp neurons. Finally, Satb2 represses the transcription of Nr4a2. The misexpression of Nr4a2 together with Ctip2 induces expression of SubC-specific genes in wild-type Rsp, and simultaneous knockdown of these two genes in Rsp Satb2-mutant cells prevents their fate transition to SubC identity. Thus, Satb2 serves as a determinant gene in the Rsp regionalization by repressing Nr4a2 and Ctip2 during cortical development.
Comment in    J Exp Med. 2020 Jan 6;217(1):
With the approval of CD19-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells for the treatment of B cell malignancies, clinicians have gained valuable insights into the power and challenges of cellular therapies. In this issue of the JCI, Maluski et al. showed that a CAR containing a CD28 costimulatory domain drives progeny differentiation to resemble that of NK cells, which have the potential for an off-the-shelf cell therapy. These CAR-induced killer (CARiK) cells displayed potent antitumor function and killed across the MHC barrier in vivo. After performing in vitro and in vivo mouse studies, the authors also successfully differentiated human umbilical cord blood-derived progenitor cells into CARiK cells. These unique cells may address some of the current challenges associated with first-generation CARs, such as prolonged production that requires patients to wait weeks for infusion. We believe this innovative progenitor gene-engineered lymphoid system has the potential for clinical translation.
Erratum in    J Pediatr. 2020 Mar;218:e3.
Erratum for    Commun Biol. 2019 Aug 7;2:296.
Mammals have evolved many antiviral factors impacting different steps of the viral life cycle. Associated with chromatin-modifying enzymes, the cellular cofactor CTIP2 contributes to HIV-1 gene silencing in latently infected reservoirs that constitute the major block toward an HIV cure. We report, for the first time, that the virus has developed a strategy to overcome this major transcriptional block. Productive HIV-1 infection results in a Vpr-mediated depletion of CTIP2 in microglial cells and CD4+ T cells, two of the major viral reservoirs. Associated to the Cul4A-DDB1-DCAF1 ubiquitin ligase complex, Vpr promotes CTIP2 degradation via the proteasome pathway in the nuclei of target cells and notably at the latent HIV-1 promoter. Importantly, Vpr targets CTIP2 associated with heterochromatin-promoting enzymes dedicated to HIV-1 gene silencing. Thereby, Vpr reactivates HIV-1 expression in a microglial model of HIV-1 latency. Altogether our results suggest that HIV-1 Vpr mediates the depletion of the cellular repressor CTIP2 to counteract viral gene silencing.
T-cell development in mammals is a model for lineage choice and differentiation from multipotent stem cells. Although T-cell fate choice is promoted by signaling in the thymus through one dominant pathway, the Notch pathway, it entails a complex set of gene regulatory network and chromatin state changes even before the cells begin to express their signature feature, the clonal-specific T-cell receptors (TCRs) for antigen. This review distinguishes three developmental modules for T-cell development, which correspond to cell type specification, TCR expression and selection, and the assignment of cells to different effector types. The first is based on transcriptional regulatory network events, the second is dominated by somatic gene rearrangement and mutation and cell selection, and the third corresponds to establishing a poised state of latent regulator priming through an unknown mechanism. Interestingly, in different lineages, the third module can be deployed at variable times relative to the completion of the first two modules. This review focuses on the gene regulatory network and chromatin-based kinetic constraints that determine activities of transcription factors TCF1, GATA3, PU.1, Bcl11b, Runx1, and E proteins in the primary establishment of T-cell identity.
Comment in    J Clin Invest. 2019 Dec 2;129(12):5077-5078.
Foxp3 and its protein partners establish a regulatory T (Treg) cell transcription profile and promote immunological tolerance. However, molecular features contributing to a Treg-specific gene expression program are still incompletely understood. We find that the transcription factor Bcl11b is a prominent Foxp3 cofactor with multifaceted functions in Treg biology. Optimal genomic recruitment of Foxp3 and Bcl11b is critically interdependent. Genome-wide occupancy studies coupled with gene expression profiling reveal that Bcl11b, in association with Foxp3, is primarily responsible in establishing a Treg-specific gene activation program. Furthermore, Bcl11b restricts misdirected recruitment of Foxp3 to sites, which would otherwise result in an altered Treg transcriptome profile. Consequently, Treg-specific ablation of Bcl11b results in marked breakdown of immune tolerance, leading to aggressive systemic autoimmunity. Our study provides previously underappreciated mechanistic insights into molecular events contributing to basic aspects of Treg function. Furthermore, it establishes a therapeutic target with potential implications in autoimmunity and cancer.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells are essential for peripheral tolerance and rely on the transcription factor (TF) Foxp3 for their generation and function. Several other TFs are critical for the Treg cell program. We found that mice deficient in Bcl11b TF solely in Treg cells developed fatal autoimmunity, and Bcl11b-deficient Treg cells had severely altered function. Bcl11b KO Treg cells showed decreased functional marker levels in homeostatic conditions, inflammation, and tumors. Bcl11b controlled expression of essential Treg program genes at steady state and in inflammation. Bcl11b bound to genomic regulatory regions of Treg program genes in both human and mouse Treg cells, overlapping with Foxp3 binding; these genes showed altered chromatin accessibility in the absence of Bcl11b. Additionally, Bcl11b restrained myeloid and NK cell programs in Treg cells. Our study provides new mechanistic insights on the Treg cell program and identity control, with major implications for therapies in autoimmunity and cancer.
The mechanisms underlying the selective degeneration of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in Huntington disease (HD) remain largely unknown. CTIP2, a transcription factor expressed by all MSNs, is implicated in HD pathogenesis because of its interactions with mutant huntingtin. Here, we report a key role for CTIP2 in protein phosphorylation via governing protein kinase A (PKA) signaling in human striatal neurons. Transcriptomic analysis of CTIP2-deficient MSNs implicates CTIP2 target genes at the heart of cAMP-Ca2+ signal integration in the PKA pathway. These findings are further supported by experimental evidence of a substantial reduction in phosphorylation of DARPP32 and GLUR1, two PKA targets in CTIP2-deficient MSNs. Moreover, we show that CTIP2-dependent dysregulation of protein phosphorylation is shared by HD hPSC-derived MSNs and striatal tissues of two HD mouse models. This study therefore establishes an essential role for CTIP2 in human MSN homeostasis and provides mechanistic and potential therapeutic insight into striatal neurodegeneration.
Cervical carcinogenesis, the second leading cause of cancer death in women worldwide, is caused by multiple types of human papillomaviruses (HPVs). To investigate a possible role for HPV in a cervical carcinoma that was HPV-negative by PCR testing, we performed HPV DNA hybridization capture plus massively parallel sequencing. This detected a subgenomic, URR-E6-E7-E1 segment of HPV70 DNA, a type not generally associated with cervical cancer, inserted in an intron of the B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 11B (BCL11B) gene in the human genome. Long range DNA sequencing confirmed the virus and flanking BCL11B DNA structures including both insertion junctions. Global transcriptomic analysis detected multiple, alternatively spliced, HPV70-BCL11B, fusion transcripts with fused open reading frames. The insertion and fusion transcripts were present in an intraepithelial precursor phase of tumorigenesis. These results suggest oncogenicity of HPV70, identify novel BCL11B variants with potential oncogenic implications, and underscore the advantages of thorough genomic analyses to elucidate insights into HPV-associated tumorigenesis.
Erratum in    Commun Biol. 2019 Sep 12;2:343.
Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) internal tandem duplication (ITD) mutations, common in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML), associate with early relapse and poor prognosis. Past studies have suggested additional cooperative mutations are required for leukemogenesis in FLT3-ITD+ AML. Using RNA sequencing and a next-generation targeted gene panel, we broadly characterize the co-occurring genomic alterations in pediatric cytogenetically normal (CN) FLT3-ITD+ AML to gain a deeper understanding of the clonal patterns and heterogeneity at diagnosis and relapse. We show that chimeric transcripts were present in 21 of 34 (62%) of de novo samples, 2 (6%) of these samples included a rare reoccurring fusion partner BCL11B. At diagnosis, the median number of mutations other than FLT3 per patient was 1 (range 0-3), which involved 8 gene pathways; WT1 and NPM1 mutations were frequently observed (35% and 24%, respectively). Fusion transcripts and high variant allele frequency (VAF) mutants, which included WT1, NPM1, SMARCA2, RAD21, and TYK2, were retained from diagnosis to relapse. We did observe reduction in VAF of simple or single mutation clones, but VAFs were preserved or expanded in more complex clones with multiple mutations. Our data provide the first insight into the genomic complexity of pediatric CN FLT3-ITD+ AML and could help stratify future targeted treatment strategies.
BACKGROUND: Next-generation sequencing has been invaluable to delineate the genetic etiology of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) in recent years. BCL11B, encoding Cys2 His2 zinc finger transcription factor, is essential for the development of immune and neural systems.METHODS: Herein, we describe a Chinese girl presenting craniofacial abnormalities, developmental delay and intellectual disability with speech impairment. Exomes of genes were enriched with the Agilent SureSelect QXT ALL Human Exon V6 kit and sequenced on Illumina Hiseq 2500 platform.RESULTS: After variants filtering and annotation, we identified a de novo heterozygous 11bp frameshift mutation NM_138576.4: c.2190_2200delGGACGCACGAC (p.Thr730Thrfs*151) in exon 4 of BCL11B, which is expected to escape nonsense-mediated mRNA decay and probably result in a truncated protein with lack of the C-terminal DNA-binding zinc-finger domains.CONCLUSION: This is the first report of NDD caused by a BCL11B variant in a Chinese population. The mutation identified in this report broadens the knowledge of mutation spectrum of BCL11B and might help in genetic counseling and reducing reproductive risk.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) play strategic roles in tissue homeostasis and immunity. ILCs arise from lymphoid progenitors undergoing lineage restriction and the development of specialized ILC subsets. We generated "5x polychromILC" transcription factor reporter mice to delineate ILC precursor states by revealing the multifaceted expression of key ILC-associated transcription factors (Id2, Bcl11b, Gata3, RORγt, and RORα) during ILC development in the bone marrow. This approach allowed previously unattained enrichment of rare progenitor subsets and revealed hitherto unappreciated ILC precursor heterogeneity. In vivo and in vitro assays identified precursors with potential to generate all ILC subsets and natural killer (NK) cells, and also permitted discrimination of elusive ILC3 bone marrow antecedents. Single-cell gene expression analysis identified a discrete ILC2-committed population and delineated transition states between early progenitors and a highly heterogeneous ILC1, ILC3, and NK precursor cell cluster. This diversity might facilitate greater lineage potential upon progenitor recruitment to peripheral tissues.
Craniosynostosis, the premature ossification of cranial sutures, is a developmental disorder of the skull vault, occurring in approximately 1 in 2250 births. The causes are heterogeneous, with a monogenic basis identified in ~25% of patients. Using whole-genome sequencing, we identified a novel, de novo variant in BCL11B, c.7C>A, encoding an R3S substitution (p.R3S), in a male patient with coronal suture synostosis. BCL11B is a transcription factor that interacts directly with the nucleosome remodelling and deacetylation complex (NuRD) and polycomb-related complex 2 (PRC2) through the invariant proteins RBBP4 and RBBP7. The p.R3S substitution occurs within a conserved amino-terminal motif (RRKQxxP) of BCL11B and reduces interaction with both transcriptional complexes. Equilibrium binding studies and molecular dynamics simulations show that the p.R3S substitution disrupts ionic coordination between BCL11B and the RBBP4-MTA1 complex, a subassembly of the NuRD complex, and increases the conformational flexibility of Arg-4, Lys-5 and Gln-6 of BCL11B. These alterations collectively reduce the affinity of BCL11B p.R3S for the RBBP4-MTA1 complex by nearly an order of magnitude. We generated a mouse model of the BCL11B p.R3S substitution using a CRISPR-Cas9-based approach, and we report herein that these mice exhibit craniosynostosis of the coronal suture, as well as other cranial sutures. This finding provides strong evidence that the BCL11B p.R3S substitution is causally associated with craniosynostosis and confirms an important role for BCL11B in the maintenance of cranial suture patency.
BACKGROUND: Balanced chromosomal rearrangements associated with abnormal phenotype are rare events, but may be challenging for genetic counselling, since molecular characterisation of breakpoints is not performed routinely. We used next-generation sequencing to characterise breakpoints of balanced chromosomal rearrangements at the molecular level in patients with intellectual disability and/or congenital anomalies.METHODS: Breakpoints were characterised by a paired-end low depth whole genome sequencing (WGS) strategy and validated by Sanger sequencing. Expression study of disrupted and neighbouring genes was performed by RT-qPCR from blood or lymphoblastoid cell line RNA.RESULTS: Among the 55 patients included (41 reciprocal translocations, 4 inversions, 2 insertions and 8 complex chromosomal rearrangements), we were able to detect 89% of chromosomal rearrangements (49/55). Molecular signatures at the breakpoints suggested that DNA breaks arose randomly and that there was no major influence of repeated elements. Non-homologous end-joining appeared as the main mechanism of repair (55% of rearrangements). A diagnosis could be established in 22/49 patients (44.8%), 15 by gene disruption (KANSL1, FOXP1, SPRED1, TLK2, MBD5, DMD, AUTS2, MEIS2, MEF2C, NRXN1, NFIX, SYNGAP1, GHR, ZMIZ1) and 7 by position effect (DLX5, MEF2C, BCL11B, SATB2, ZMIZ1). In addition, 16 new candidate genes were identified. Systematic gene expression studies further supported these results. We also showed the contribution of topologically associated domain maps to WGS data interpretation.CONCLUSION: Paired-end WGS is a valid strategy and may be used for structural variation characterisation in a clinical setting.
Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) are tissue-resident cells and are a major source of innate TH2 cytokine secretion upon allergen exposure or parasitic-worm infection. Accumulating studies have revealed that transcription factors, including GATA-3, Bcl11b, Gfi1, RORα, and Ets-1, play a role in ILC2 differentiation. Recent reports have further revealed that the characteristics and functions of ILC2 are influenced by the physiological state of the tissues. Specifically, the type of inflammation strongly affects the ILC2 phenotype in tissues. Inhibitory ILC2s, memory-like ILC2s, and ex-ILC2s with ILC1 features acquire their characteristic properties following exposure to their specific inflammatory environment. We have recently reported a new ILC2 population, designated as exhausted-like ILC2s, which emerges after a severe allergic inflammation. Exhausted-like ILC2s are featured with low reactivity and high expression of inhibitory receptors. Therefore, for a more comprehensive understanding of ILC2 function and differentiation, we review the recent knowledge of transcriptional regulation of ILC2 differentiation and discuss the roles of the Runx transcription factor in controlling the emergence of exhausted-like ILC2s. The concept of exhausted-like ILC2s sheds a light on a new aspect of ILC2 biology in allergic diseases.
Comment in    Blood. 2019 May 2;133(18):1921-1922.
Biallelic germline mutations in the DNA mismatch repair gene MLH1 lead to constitutional mismatch repair-deficiency syndrome and an increased risk for childhood hematopoietic malignancies, including lymphoma and leukemia. To examine how Mlh1 dysfunction promotes lymphoma as well as the influence of ionizing radiation (IR) exposure, we used an Mlh1-/- mouse model and whole-exome sequencing to assess genomic alterations in 23 T-cell lymphomas, including 8 spontaneous and 15 IR-associated lymphomas. Exposure to IR accelerated T-cell lymphoma induction in the Mlh1-/- mice, and whole-exome sequencing revealed that IR exposure neither increased the number of mutations nor altered the mutation spectrum of the lymphomas. Frequent mutations were evident in genes encoding transcription factors (e.g. Ikzf1, Trp53, Bcl11b), epigenetic regulators (e.g. Suv420h1, Ep300, Kmt2d), transporters (e.g. Rangap1, Kcnj16), extracellular matrix (e.g. Megf6, Lrig1), cell motility (e.g. Argef19, Dnah17), protein kinase cascade (e.g. Ptpro, Marcks) and in genes involved in NOTCH (e.g. Notch1), and PI3K/AKT (e.g. Pten, Akt2) signaling pathways in both spontaneous and IR-associated lymphomas. Frameshift mutations in mononucleotide repeat sequences within the genes Trp53, Ep300, Kmt2d, Notch1, Pten and Marcks were newly identified in the lymphomas. The lymphomas also exhibited a few chromosomal abnormalities. The results establish a landscape of genomic alterations in spontaneous and IR-associated lymphomas that occur in the context of mismatch repair dysfunction and suggest potential targets for cancer treatment.
BACKGROUND: Abundant evidence shows that triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is heterogeneous, and many efforts have been devoted to identifying TNBC subtypes on the basis of genomic profiling. However, few studies have explored the classification of TNBC specifically based on immune signatures that may facilitate the optimal stratification of TNBC patients responsive to immunotherapy.METHODS: Using four publicly available TNBC genomics datasets, we classified TNBC on the basis of the immunogenomic profiling of 29 immune signatures. Unsupervised and supervised machine learning methods were used to perform the classification.RESULTS: We identified three TNBC subtypes that we named Immunity High (Immunity_H), Immunity Medium (Immunity_M), and Immunity Low (Immunity_L) and demonstrated that this classification was reliable and predictable by analyzing multiple different datasets. Immunity_H was characterized by greater immune cell infiltration and anti-tumor immune activities, as well as better survival prognosis compared to the other subtypes. Besides the immune signatures, some cancer-associated pathways were hyperactivated in Immunity_H, including apoptosis, calcium signaling, MAPK signaling, PI3K-Akt signaling, and RAS signaling. In contrast, Immunity_L presented depressed immune signatures and increased activation of cell cycle, Hippo signaling, DNA replication, mismatch repair, cell adhesion molecule binding, spliceosome, adherens junction function, pyrimidine metabolism, glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor biosynthesis, and RNA polymerase pathways. Furthermore, we identified a gene co-expression subnetwork centered around five transcription factor (TF) genes (CORO1A, STAT4, BCL11B, ZNF831, and EOMES) specifically significant in the Immunity_H subtype and a subnetwork centered around two TF genes (IRF8 and SPI1) characteristic of the Immunity_L subtype.CONCLUSIONS: The identification of TNBC subtypes based on immune signatures has potential clinical implications for TNBC treatment.
During T cell differentiation and activation, specific stimuli, and a network of transcription factors (TFs) are involved in orchestrating chromatin accessibility, establishing enhancer-promoter interactions, and regulating gene expression. Over the past few years, there have been new insights into how chromatin interactions coordinate differentiation during T cell development and how regulatory elements are programmed to allow T cells to differentially respond to distinct stimuli. In this review, we discuss recent advances related to the roles of TFs in establishing the regulatory chromatin landscapes that orchestrate T cell development and differentiation. In particular, we focus on the role of TFs (e.g., TCF-1, BCL11B, PU.1, STAT3, STAT5, AP-1, and IRF4) in mediating chromatin accessibility and interactions and in regulating gene expression in T cells, including gene expression that is dependent on IL-2 and IL-21. Furthermore, we discuss the state of knowledge on enhancer-promoter interactions and how autoimmune disease risk variants can be linked to molecular functions of putative target genes.
BACKGROUND: Neonatal sepsis is an inflammatory systemic syndrome, which is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in premature infants. We analyzed the expression profile data of E-MTAB-4785 to reveal the pathogenesis of the disease.METHODS: The expression profile dataset E-MTAB-4785, which contained 17 sepsis samples and 19 normal samples, was obtained from the ArrayExpress database. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were analyzed by the Bayesian testing method in limma package. Based on the DAVID online tool, enrichment analysis was conducted for the DEGs. Using STRING database and Cytoscape software, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and module analyses were performed. Besides, transcription factor (TF)-DEG regulatory network was also constructed by Cytoscape software. Additionally, miRNA-DEG pairs were searched using miR2Disease and miRWalk 2.0 databases, followed by miRNA-DEG regulatory network was visualized by Cytoscape software.RESULTS: A total of 275 DEGs were identified from the sepsis samples in comparison to normal samples. TSPO, MAPK14, and ZAP70 were the hub nodes in the PPI network. Pathway enrichment analysis indicated that CEBPB and MAPK14 were enriched in TNF signaling pathway. Moreover, CEBPB and has-miR-150 might function in neonatal sepsis separately through targeting MAPK14 and BCL11B in the regulatory networks. These genes and miRNA might be novel targets for the clinical treatment of neonatal sepsis.CONCLUSION: TSPO, ZAP70, CEBPB targeting MAPK14, has-miR-150 targeting BCL11B might affect the pathogenesis of neonatal sepsis. However, their roles in neonatal sepsis still needed to be confirmed by further experimental researches.
OBJECTIVE: We investigated whether HIV brain latency was associated with brain injury in virally suppressed HIV infection.DESIGN: Observational cross-sectional and longitudinal study.METHODS: The study included 26 virally suppressed HIV-infected men (61.5% with HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder) who undertook cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analyses at baseline. They also completed a proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H MRS) and neuropsychological assessments at baseline and 18 months. To quantify whether there was residual brain HIV transcription, we measured CSF HIV-tat. As an HIV brain latency biomarker, we used concentrations of CSF BcL11b - a microglia transcription factor that inhibits HIV transcription. Concurrently, we assessed neuroinflammation with CSF neopterin, neuronal injury with CSF neurofilament light-chain (NFL), and in-vivo neurochemistry with 1H MRS of N-acetyl aspartate (NAA), choline (Cho), creatine, myo-inositol (MI), glutamine/glutamate (Glx) in the frontal white matter (FWM), posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), and caudate nucleus area.RESULTS: Baseline adjusted regression models for neopterin, NFL, and tat showed that a higher CSF BcL11b was consistently associated with lower FWM creatine (when adjusted for neopterin: β = -0.30, P = 0.15; when adjusted for NFL: β = -0.47, P = 0.04; and when adjusted for tat: β = -0.47, P = 0.02). In longitudinal analyses, we found no time effect, but a consistent BcL11b altering effect on FWM creatine. The effect reached a significant moderate effect size range when corrected for CSF NFL (β = -0.36, P = 0.02) and CSF tat (β = -0.34, P = 0.02).CONCLUSIONS: Reduced frontal white matter total creatine may indicate subclinical HIV brain latency-related injury. H MRS may offer a noninvasive option to measure HIV brain latency.
Cell fate decisions occur through the switch-like, irreversible activation of fate-specifying genes. These activation events are often assumed to be tightly coupled to changes in upstream transcription factors, but could also be constrained by cis-epigenetic mechanisms at individual gene loci. Here, we studied the activation of Bcl11b, which controls T-cell fate commitment. To disentangle cis and trans effects, we generated mice where two Bcl11b copies are tagged with distinguishable fluorescent proteins. Quantitative live microscopy of progenitors from these mice revealed that Bcl11b turned on after a stochastic delay averaging multiple days, which varied not only between cells but also between Bcl11b alleles within the same cell. Genetic perturbations, together with mathematical modeling, showed that a distal enhancer controls the rate of epigenetic activation, while a parallel Notch-dependent trans-acting step stimulates expression from activated loci. These results show that developmental fate transitions can be controlled by stochastic cis-acting events on individual loci.
AIM: This study aimed to explore the molecular mechanism of severe asthma.MATERIALS & METHODS: The shared and divergent differentially expressed mRNAs (DEmRNAs), miRNAs (DEmiRNAs) and lncRNAs (DElncRNAs) in asthma and severe asthma were identified by RNA-sequencing. Severe asthma-specific and shared DEmiRNA-DEmRNA-DElncRNA interaction networks were performed.RESULTS: Compared with normal control, 1328 DEmRNAs, 608 DElncRNAs and 63 DEmiRNAs were identified in severe asthma. Compared with asthma, 95 DEmRNAs, 143 DElncRNAs and 96 DEmiRNAs were identified in severe asthma. MiR-133a-3p-EFHD2/CNN2-AC144831.1 interactions and miR-3613-3p-CD44/BCL11B-LINC00158/CTA-217C2.1/AC010976.2/RP11-641A6.2 interactions were speculated to involve with the development of severe asthma. The results of GSE69683 validation were generally consistent with our RNA-sequencing results.CONCLUSION: This study provides clues for understanding the mechanism of severe asthma.
Multipotent progenitor cells confirm their T cell-lineage identity in the CD4-CD8- double-negative (DN) pro-T cell DN2 stages, when expression of the essential transcription factor Bcl11b begins. In vivo and in vitro stage-specific deletions globally identified Bcl11b-controlled target genes in pro-T cells. Proteomics analysis revealed that Bcl11b associated with multiple cofactors and that its direct action was needed to recruit those cofactors to selective target sites. Regions near functionally regulated target genes showed enrichment for those sites of Bcl11b-dependent recruitment of cofactors, and deletion of individual cofactors relieved the repression of many genes normally repressed by Bcl11b. Runx1 collaborated with Bcl11b most frequently for both activation and repression. In parallel, Bcl11b indirectly regulated a subset of target genes by a gene network circuit via the transcription inhibitor Id2 (encoded by Id2) and transcription factor PLZF (encoded by Zbtb16); Id2 and Zbtb16 were directly repressed by Bcl11b, and Id2 and PLZF controlled distinct alternative programs. Thus, our study defines the molecular basis of direct and indirect Bcl11b actions that promote T cell identity and block alternative potentials.
B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 11B (Bcl11b) is a transcription factor critical for thymocyte development. We have previously characterized the kinetic post-translational modifications (PTMs) of Bcl11b in double-positive (DP) thymocytes during stimulation of the T cell receptor-activated MAP kinase pathway. However, the PTMs of Bcl11b in thymocytes from other developmental stages in the thymus, primarily double-negative (DN) cells, have not been previously identified. We found that kinetic modifications of Bcl11b in DN cells are somewhat different than the patterns observed in DP cells. Distinct from DP thymocytes, phosphorylation and sumoylation of Bcl11b in DN cells were not oppositely regulated in response to activation of MAP kinase, even though hyper-phosphorylation of Bcl11b coincided with near complete desumoylation. Additionally, prolonged stimulation of the MAP kinase pathway in DN cells, unlike DP thymocytes, did not alter Bcl11b levels of sumoylation or ubiquitinylation, or stability. On the other hand, activation of Wnt-Gsk3-dependent signaling in DN cells resulted in composite dephosphorylation and sumoylation of Bcl11b. Moreover, stimulation of MAP kinase and (or) Wnt signaling pathways differentially affects gene expression of some Bcl11b target and maturation-associated genes. Defining the signaling pathways and regulation of sequence-specific transcription factors by PTMs at various stages of thymopoiesis may improve our understanding of leukemogenesis.
Cortical development is controlled by transcriptional programs, which are orchestrated by transcription factors. Yet, stable inheritance of spatio-temporal activity of factors influencing cell fate and localization in different layers is only partly understood. Here we find that deletion of Dot1l in the murine telencephalon leads to cortical layering defects, indicating DOT1L activity and chromatin methylation at H3K79 impact on the cell cycle, and influence transcriptional programs conferring upper layer identity in early progenitors. Specifically, DOT1L prevents premature differentiation by increasing expression of genes that regulate asymmetric cell division (Vangl2, Cenpj). Loss of DOT1L results in reduced numbers of progenitors expressing genes including SoxB1 gene family members. Loss of DOT1L also leads to altered cortical distribution of deep layer neurons that express either TBR1, CTIP2 or SOX5, and less activation of transcriptional programs that are characteristic for upper layer neurons (Satb2, Pou3f3, Cux2, SoxC family members). Data from three different mouse models suggest that DOT1L balances transcriptional programs necessary for proper neuronal composition and distribution in the six cortical layers. Furthermore, because loss of DOT1L in the pre-neurogenic phase of development impairs specifically generation of SATB2-expressing upper layer neurons, our data suggest that DOT1L primes upper layer identity in cortical progenitors.
Excessive sodium intake is a global risk factor for hypertension. Sodium effects on blood pressure vary from person to person; hence, high-risk group targeting based on personal genetic information can play a complementary role to ongoing population preventive approaches to reduce sodium consumption. To identify genetic factors that modulate sodium effects on blood pressure, we conducted a population-based genome-wide interaction analysis in 8,768 Japanese subjects, which was >3 times larger than a similar previous study. We tested 7,135,436 polymorphisms in the discovery cohort, and loci that met suggestive significance were further examined in an independent replication cohort. We found that an interaction between a novel 3'-BCL11B gene desert locus and daily sodium consumption was significantly associated with systolic blood pressure in both discovery and replication cohorts under the recessive model. Further statistical analysis of rs8022678, the sentinel variant of the 3'-BCL11B gene desert locus, showed that differences in mean systolic blood pressure between high and low sodium consumption subgroups were 5.9 mm Hg (P = 8.8 × 10-12) in rs8022678 A carriers and -0.3 mm Hg (P = 0.27) in rs8022678 A non-carriers, suggesting that the rs8022678 genotype can classify persons into sodium-sensitive (A carriers) and sodium-insensitive (A non-carriers) subgroups. Our results implied that rs8022678 A carriers may receive a greater benefit from sodium-lowering interventions than non-carriers.
Laminar architecture of primary auditory cortex (A1) has long been investigated by traditional histochemical techniques such as Nissl staining, retrograde and anterograde tracings. Uncertainty still remains, however, about laminar boundaries in mice. Here we investigated the cortical lamina structure by combining neuronal tracing and immunofluorochemistry for laminar specific markers. Most retrogradely labeled corticothalamic neurons expressed Forkhead box protein P2 (Foxp2) and distributed within the laminar band of Foxp2-expressing cells, identifying layer 6. Cut-like homeobox 1 (Cux1) expression in layer 2-4 neurons divided the upper layers into low expression layers 2/3 and high expression layers 3/4, which overlapped with the dense terminals of vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (vGluT2) and anterogradely labeled lemniscal thalamocortical axons. In layer 5, between Cux1-expressing layers 2-4 and Foxp2-defined layer 6, retrogradely labeled corticocollicular projection neurons mostly expressed COUP-TF interacting protein 2 (Ctip2). Ctip2-expressing neurons formed a laminar band in the middle of layer 5 distant from layer 6, creating a laminar gap between the two laminas. This gap contained a high population of commissural neurons projecting to contralateral A1 compared to other layers and received vGluT2-immunopositive, presumptive thalamocortical axon collateral inputs. Our study shows that layer 5 is much wider than layer 6, and layer 5 can be divided into at least three sublayers. The thalamorecipient layers 3/4 may be separated from layers 2/3 using Cux1 and can be also divided into layer 4 and layer 3 based on the neuronal soma size. These data provide a new insight for the laminar structure of mouse A1.
An intronic silencer, S4, in the Cd4 gene has been shown to be responsible for the helper-lineage-specific expression of CD4; S4 requires Runx complex binding to exert its silencer function against the enhancer-mediated Cd4 activation by modulating the epigenetic state of the Cd4 gene. Here we identify a late-acting maturation enhancer. Bcl11b plays essential roles for activation of both the early-acting proximal enhancer and maturation enhancer of Cd4. Notably, Runx complexes suppress these enhancers by distinct mechanisms. Whereas repression of the proximal enhancer depends on the S4 silencer, the maturation enhancer is repressed by Runx in the absence of S4. Moreover, ThPOK, known to antagonize S4-mediated Cd4 repression, assists Runx complexes to restrain maturation enhancer activation. Distinct modes of S4 silencer action upon distinct enhancers thus unravel a pathway that restricts CD4 expression to helper-lineage cells by silencer-independent and Runx-dependent repression of maturation enhancer activity in cytotoxic-lineage cells.
Avian leukosis virus subgroup J (ALV-J) is an avian oncogenic retrovirus that induces myeloid tumors and hemangiomas in chickens and causes severe economic losses with commercial layer chickens and meat-type chickens. High-throughput sequencing followed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and bioinformatics analyses were performed to advance the understanding of regulatory networks associated with differentially expressed non-coding RNAs and mRNAs that facilitate ALV-J infection. We examined the expression of mRNAs, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), and miRNAs in the spleens of 20-week-old chickens infected with ALV-J and uninfected chickens. We found that 1723 mRNAs, 7,883 lncRNAs and 13 miRNAs in the spleen were differentially expressed between the uninfected and infected groups (P < 0.05). Transcriptome analysis showed that, compared to mRNA, chicken lncRNAs shared relatively fewer exon numbers and shorter transcripts. Through competing endogenous RNA and co-expression network analyses, we identified several tumor-associated or immune-related genes and lncRNAs. Along transcripts whose expression levels significantly decreased in both ALV-J infected spleen and tumor tissues, BCL11B showed the greatest change. These results suggest that BCL11B may be mechanistically involved in tumorigenesis in chicken and neoplastic diseases, may be related to immune response, and potentially be novel biomarker for ALV-J infection. Our results provide new insight into the pathology of ALV-J infection and high-quality transcriptome resource for in-depth study of epigenetic influences on disease resistance and immune system.
The recent genome-wide analysis of carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) identified a significant locus within the 14q32.2 gene desert. Gene regulatory elements for the transcriptional regulator B-cell CLL/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) are within this locus and an attractive target for the gene association. We investigated the functional impact of these gene desert SNPs on BCL11B transcript in human aorta to characterize further its role in aortic stiffness. To do this, we used a large repository of aortic tissues (n = 185) from an organ transplant program and assessed ex vivo stiffness of the aortic rings. We tested association of three lead SNPs from the GWAS meta-analysis with ex vivo aortic stiffness and BCL11B aortic mRNA expression: rs1381289 and rs10782490 SNPs associated significantly with PWV and showed allele-specific differences in BCL11B mRNA. The risk alleles associated with lower BCL11B expression, suggesting a protective role for BCL11B. Despite strong association, we could not detect BCL11B protein in the human aorta. However, qPCR for CD markers showed that BCL11B transcript correlated strongly with markers for activated lymphocytes. Our data confirm the significance of the 14q32.2 region as a risk locus for aortic stiffness and an upstream regulator of BCL11B. The BCL11B transcript detected in the human aorta may reflect lymphocyte infiltration, suggesting that immune mechanisms contribute to the observed association of BCL11B with aortic stiffness.
PURPOSE: T helper (Th) 17 cells play a critical role in the development of asthma, but the underlying mechanism of how interleukin (IL)-17 is regulated in allergic airway inflammation is poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the impact of Bcl11b on Th17 response in asthma.METHODS: Blood samples from patients with mild asthma (MA) and severe asthma (SA) were collected. Expression of Bcl11b, IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-17A and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 were determined in CD4⁺ T cells and plasma by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Relative mRNA and protein levels of Bcl11b, IL-17A and genes involved in the TGF/Smad signaling pathway were examined by PCR, ELISA and western blot analysis in house dust mite (HDM)-challenged mice. Ectopic expression of Bcl11b in HDM-stimulated primary mouse splenocytes was achieved by nucleofection of Bcl11b expression plasmid.RESULTS: We found significantly decreased Bcl11b but increased IL-17A and TGF-β1 expression in patients with asthma and a strongly negative correlation between Bcl11b and these 2 cytokines in SA patients. Similar expression patterns of Bcl11b, IL-17A and TGF-β1 were also found in mice with HDM-induced allergic airway inflammation. We demonstrated further that Smad2/3 phosphorylation was increased in HDM-challenged mice and that ectopic expression of Bcl11b in HDM-stimulated primary mouse splenocytes reduced Smad2 phosphorylation and IL-17 expression.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate a potential effect of Bc111b in controlling IL-17-mediated inflammation in asthma and suggest that Bc111b may be a useful therapeutic target for asthma.
Proper formation of laminar structures in sensory cortexes is critical for sensory information processing. Previous studies suggested that the timing of neuronal migration and the laminar position of cortical neurons differ among sensory cortexes. How they differ during postnatal development has not been systematically investigated. Here, identifying laminas using transcription factors, we examined postnatal changes in neuronal density and distribution in presumptive primary auditory (ACx), visual (VCx), and somatosensory cortexes (SCx) in a strain of mice using immunofluorescence techniques. Development of laminar thickness and its cortical proportion differed among the sensory cortexes. Layers 2-4 defined by Cut-like homeobox 1 (Cux1)-expressing neurons were narrower, and layer 5 was wider in ACx compared to those in VCx or SCx, while Forkhead-box protein P2 (Foxp2)-defined layer 6 was wider in SCx than the other two sensory cortexes throughout postnatal development. Meanwhile, thalamocortical input layers identified by Cux1-expressing neurons formed later in ACx than in the other two cortical regions. The cell densities of ETS-related protein 81-expressing neurons increased in both lower and upper layers but at distinct timing, while those of COUP-TF-interacting protein 2 expressing neurons in the lower layers changed bidirectionally (i.e., increased or decreased) both in layer- and cortical region-specific manners. Foxp2-expressing cells in layer 6 distributed differently and declined at different timing among the sensory cortexes. Overall, we demonstrate that the maturational timing of lamina differs among the sensory cortexes and that postnatal age-dependent changes in neuronal distribution are unique to each of the sensory cortexes.
SATB2 is associated with schizophrenia and is an important transcription factor regulating neocortical organization and circuitry. Rare mutations in SATB2 cause a syndrome that includes developmental delay, and mouse studies identify an important role for SATB2 in learning and memory. Interacting partners BCL11B and GATAD2A are also schizophrenia risk genes indicating that other genes interacting with or are regulated by SATB2 are making a contribution to schizophrenia and cognition. We used data from Satb2 mouse models to generate three gene-sets that contain genes either functionally related to SATB2 or targeted by SATB2 at different stages of development. Each was tested for enrichment using the largest available genome-wide association studies (GWAS) datasets for schizophrenia and educational attainment (EA) and enrichment analysis was also performed for schizophrenia and other neurodevelopmental disorders using data from rare variant sequencing studies. These SATB2 gene-sets were enriched for genes containing common variants associated with schizophrenia and EA, and were enriched for genes containing rare variants reported in studies of schizophrenia, autism and intellectual disability. In the developing cortex, genes targeted by SATB2 based on ChIP-seq data, and functionally affected when SATB2 is not expressed based on differential expression analysis using RNA-seq data, show strong enrichment for genes associated with EA. For genes expressed in the hippocampus or at the synapse, those targeted by SATB2 are more strongly enriched for genes associated EA than gene-sets not targeted by SATB2. This study demonstrates that single gene findings from GWAS can provide important insights to pathobiological processes. In this case we find evidence that genes influenced by SATB2 and involved in synaptic transmission, axon guidance and formation of the corpus callosum are contributing to schizophrenia and cognition.
Erratum for    Nat Commun. 2018 Apr 26;9(1):1679.
The transcription factor BCL11B is essential for development of the nervous and the immune system, and Bcl11b deficiency results in structural brain defects, reduced learning capacity, and impaired immune cell development in mice. However, the precise role of BCL11B in humans is largely unexplored, except for a single patient with a BCL11B missense mutation, affected by multisystem anomalies and profound immune deficiency. Using massively parallel sequencing we identified 13 patients bearing heterozygous germline alterations in BCL11B. Notably, all of them are affected by global developmental delay with speech impairment and intellectual disability; however, none displayed overt clinical signs of immune deficiency. Six frameshift mutations, two nonsense mutations, one missense mutation, and two chromosomal rearrangements resulting in diminished BCL11B expression, arose de novo. A further frameshift mutation was transmitted from a similarly affected mother. Interestingly, the most severely affected patient harbours a missense mutation within a zinc-finger domain of BCL11B, probably affecting the DNA-binding structural interface, similar to the recently published patient. Furthermore, the most C-terminally located premature termination codon mutation fails to rescue the progenitor cell proliferation defect in hippocampal slice cultures from Bcl11b-deficient mice. Concerning the role of BCL11B in the immune system, extensive immune phenotyping of our patients revealed alterations in the T cell compartment and lack of peripheral type 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s), consistent with the findings described in Bcl11b-deficient mice. Unsupervised analysis of 102 T lymphocyte subpopulations showed that the patients clearly cluster apart from healthy children, further supporting the common aetiology of the disorder. Taken together, we show here that mutations leading either to BCL11B haploinsufficiency or to a truncated BCL11B protein clinically cause a non-syndromic neurodevelopmental delay. In addition, we suggest that missense mutations affecting specific sites within zinc-finger domains might result in distinct and more severe clinical outcomes.
BACKGROUND: Reduced nocturnal fall (non-dipping) of blood pressure (BP) is a predictor of cardiovascular target organ damage. No genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on BP dipping have been previously reported.METHODS: To study genetic variation affecting BP dipping, we conducted a GWAS in Genetics of Drug Responsiveness in Essential Hypertension (GENRES) cohort (n = 204) using the mean night-to-day BP ratio from up to four ambulatory BP recordings conducted on placebo. Associations with P < 1 × 10- 5 were further tested in two independent cohorts: Haemodynamics in Primary and Secondary Hypertension (DYNAMIC) (n = 183) and Dietary, Lifestyle and Genetic determinants of Obesity and Metabolic Syndrome (DILGOM) (n = 180). We also tested the genome-wide significant single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) for association with left ventricular hypertrophy in GENRES.RESULTS: In GENRES GWAS, rs4905794 near BCL11B achieved genome-wide significance (β = - 4.8%, P = 9.6 × 10- 9 for systolic and β = - 4.3%, P = 2.2 × 10- 6 for diastolic night-to-day BP ratio). Seven additional SNPs in five loci had P values < 1 × 10- 5. The association of rs4905794 did not significantly replicate, even though in DYNAMIC the effect was in the same direction (β = - 0.8%, P = 0.4 for systolic and β = - 1.6%, P = 0.13 for diastolic night-to-day BP ratio). In GENRES, the associations remained significant even during administration of four different antihypertensive drugs. In separate analysis in GENRES, rs4905794 was associated with echocardiographic left ventricular mass (β = - 7.6 g/m2, P = 0.02).CONCLUSIONS: rs4905794 near BCL11B showed evidence for association with nocturnal BP dipping. It also associated with left ventricular mass in GENRES. Combined with earlier data, our results provide support to the idea that BCL11B could play a role in cardiovascular pathophysiology.
AIM: BCL11B overexpression is a characteristic of most T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cases, and downregulated BCL11B in leukemic T cells inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis. The purpose of this study was to analyze the miRNA expression pattern that may be related to BCL11B regulation in T-ALL.METHODS: Quantitative real-time PCR was used to detect the miRNAs miR-17-3p, miR-17-5p, miR-29c-3p, miR-92a-3p, miR-214-3p and miR-214-5p, the BCL11B expression level in peripheral blood mononuclear cells which was obtained from 17 de novo and untreated T-ALL patients, and 15 healthy individuals (HIs) served as control. Correlations between the relative miRNA expression levels and BCL11B were analyzed.RESULTS: Based on the computational prediction that certain miRNAs bind the BCL11B 3'-UTR, miR-17-3p, miR-17-5p, miR-29c-3p, miR-92a-3p, miR-214-3p and miR-214-5p were found to be candidates for regulating BCL11B. The expression levels of the six miRNAs were decreased compared with HIs, and with the exception of miR-17-5p, statistically significant differences in expression levels were found in the T-ALL group. Moreover, while significantly higher BCL11B expression was found in the T-ALL group, a negative trend in the correlation level for all six miRNAs could be found in all groups; however, statistical significance was only found for miR-214-3p in the T-ALL group.CONCLUSION: miRNA downregulation together with BCL11B upregulation suggests that miR-17, miR-29c, miR-92a and miR-214 might be involved in BCL11B regulation. The therapeutic promise of regulating the expression of these miRNAs for T-ALL therapy may be considered in the future.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2018 Jul 19;9(1):2901.
DACH1 is the human homolog of the Drosophila dachshund gene, which is involved in the development of the eye, nervous system, and limbs in the fly. Here, we systematically investigate DACH1 expression patterns during human neurodevelopment, from 5 to 21 postconceptional weeks. By immunodetection analysis, we found that DACH1 is highly expressed in the proliferating neuroprogenitors of the developing cortical ventricular and subventricular regions, while it is absent in the more differentiated cortical plate. Single-cell global transcriptional analysis revealed that DACH1 is specifically enriched in neuroepithelial and ventricular radial glia cells of the developing human neocortex. Moreover, we describe a previously unreported DACH1 expression in the human striatum, in particular in the striatal medium spiny neurons. This finding qualifies DACH1 as a new striatal projection neuron marker, together with PPP1R1B, BCL11B, and EBF1. We finally compared DACH1 expression profile in human and mouse forebrain, where we observed spatio-temporal similarities in its expression pattern thus providing a precise developmental description of DACH1 in the 2 mammalian species.
Structural and functional plasticity of synapses are critical neuronal mechanisms underlying learning and memory. While activity-dependent regulation of synaptic strength has been extensively studied, much less is known about the transcriptional control of synapse maintenance and plasticity. Hippocampal mossy fiber (MF) synapses connect dentate granule cells to CA3 pyramidal neurons and are important for spatial memory formation and consolidation. The transcription factor Bcl11b/Ctip2 is expressed in dentate granule cells and required for postnatal hippocampal development. Ablation of Bcl11b/Ctip2 in the adult hippocampus results in impaired adult neurogenesis and spatial memory. The molecular mechanisms underlying the behavioral impairment remained unclear. Here we show that selective deletion of Bcl11b/Ctip2 in the adult mouse hippocampus leads to a rapid loss of excitatory synapses in CA3 as well as reduced ultrastructural complexity of remaining mossy fiber boutons (MFBs). Moreover, a dramatic decline of long-term potentiation (LTP) of the dentate gyrus-CA3 (DG-CA3) projection is caused by adult loss of Bcl11b/Ctip2. Differential transcriptomics revealed the deregulation of genes associated with synaptic transmission in mutants. Together, our data suggest Bcl11b/Ctip2 to regulate maintenance and function of MF synapses in the adult hippocampus.
GATA-binding protein 3 (GATA3) acts as the master transcription factor for type 2 T helper (Th2) cell differentiation and function. However, it is still elusive how GATA3 function is precisely regulated in Th2 cells. Here, we show that the transcription factor B cell lymphoma 11b (Bcl11b), a previously unknown component of GATA3 transcriptional complex, is involved in GATA3-mediated gene regulation. Bcl11b binds to GATA3 through protein-protein interaction, and they colocalize at many important cis-regulatory elements in Th2 cells. The expression of type 2 cytokines, including IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13, is up-regulated in Bcl11b-deficient Th2 cells both in vitro and in vivo; such up-regulation is completely GATA3 dependent. Genome-wide analyses of Bcl11b- and GATA3-regulated genes (from RNA sequencing), cobinding patterns (from chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing), and Bcl11b-modulated epigenetic modification and gene accessibility suggest that GATA3/Bcl11b complex is involved in limiting Th2 gene expression, as well as in inhibiting non-Th2 gene expression. Thus, Bcl11b controls both GATA3-mediated gene activation and repression in Th2 cells.
Repair of complex CNS circuitry requires newly incorporated neurons to become appropriately, functionally integrated. One approach is to direct differentiation of endogenous progenitors in situ, or ex vivo followed by transplantation. Prior studies find that newly incorporated neurons can establish long-distance axon projections, form synapses and functionally integrate in evolutionarily old hypothalamic energy-balance circuitry. We now demonstrate that postnatal neocortical connectivity can be reconstituted with point-to-point precision, including cellular integration of specific, molecularly identified projection neuron subtypes into correct positions, combined with development of appropriate long-distance projections and synapses. Using optogenetics-based electrophysiology, experiments demonstrate functional afferent and efferent integration of transplanted neurons into transcallosal projection neuron circuitry. Results further indicate that 'primed' early postmitotic neurons, including already fate-restricted deep-layer projection neurons and/or plastic postmitotic neuroblasts with partially fate-restricted potential, account for the predominant population of neurons capable of achieving this optimal level of integration.
The epithelial compartment of the mammary gland contains basal and luminal cell lineages, as well as stem and progenitor cells that reside upstream in the differentiation hierarchy. Stem and progenitor cell differentiation is regulated to maintain adult tissue and mediate expansion during pregnancy and lactation. The genetic factors that regulate the transition of cells between differentiation states remain incompletely understood. Here, we present a genome-scale method to discover genes driving cell-state specification. Applying this method, we identify a transcription factor, BCL11B, which drives stem cell self-renewal in vitro, by inhibiting differentiation into the basal lineage. To validate BCL11B's functional role, we use two-dimensional colony-forming and three-dimensional tissue differentiation assays to assess the lineage differentiation potential and functional abilities of primary human mammary cells. These findings show that BCL11B regulates mammary cell differentiation and demonstrate the utility of our proposed genome-scale strategy for identifying lineage regulators in mammalian tissues.
Comment in    Immunity. 2018 Feb 20;48(2):185-187.
Advances in the classification of acute leukaemias have led to improved outcomes for a substantial fraction of patients. However, chemotherapy resistance remains a major problem for specific subsets of acute leukaemias. Here, we propose that a molecularly distinct subtype of acute leukaemia with shared myeloid and T cell lymphoblastic features, which we term acute myeloid/T-lymphoblastic leukaemia (AMTL), is divided across 3 diagnostic categories owing to variable expression of markers deemed to be defining of myeloid and T-lymphoid lineages, such as myeloperoxidase and CD3. This proposed diagnostic group is supported by (i) retained myeloid differentiation potential during early T cell lymphoid development, (ii) recognition that some cases of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) harbour hallmarks of T cell development, such as T-cell receptor gene rearrangements and (iii) common gene mutations in subsets of AML and T cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL), including WT1, PHF6, RUNX1 and BCL11B. This proposed diagnostic entity overlaps with early T cell precursor (ETP) T-ALL and T cell/myeloid mixed phenotype acute leukaemias (MPALs), and also includes a subset of leukaemias currently classified as AML with features of T-lymphoblastic development. The proposed classification of AMTL as a distinct entity would enable more precise prospective diagnosis and permit the development of improved therapies for patients whose treatment is inadequate with current approaches.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) represents a common systemic autoimmune disease which lays chronic and persistent pain on patients. The purpose of our study is to identify novel RA-related genes and biological processes/pathways. All the datasets of this study, including gene expression and DNA methylation datasets of RA and OA samples, were obtained from the free available database, i.e. Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). We firstly identified the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between RA and OA samples through the limma package of R programming software followed by the functional enrichment analysis in the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) for the exploring of potential involved biological processes/pathways of DEGs. For DNA methylation datasets, we used the IMA package for their normalization and identification of differential methylation genes (DMGs) in RA compared with OA samples. Comprehensive analysis of DEGs and DMGs was also conducted for the identification of valuable RA-related biomarkers. As a result, we obtained 394 DEGs and 363 DMGs in RA samples with the thresholds of |log2fold change|> 1 and p-value < 0.05, and |delta beta|> 0.2 and p-value < 0.05 respectively. Functional analysis of DEGs obtained immune and inflammation associated biological processes/pathways. Besides, several valuable biomarkers of RA, including BCL11B, CCDC88C, FCRLA and APOL6, were identified through the integrated analysis of gene expression and DNA methylation datasets. Our study should be helpful for the development of novel drugs and therapeutic methods for RA.
Ewing sarcoma is an undifferentiated small-round-cell sarcoma. Although molecular detection of pathognomonic EWSR1-ETS fusions such as EWSR1-FLI1 enables definitive diagnosis, substantial confusion can arise if molecular diagnostics are unavailable. Diagnosis based on the conventional immunohistochemical marker CD99 is unreliable due to its abundant expression in morphological mimics. To identify novel diagnostic immunohistochemical markers for Ewing sarcoma, we performed comparative expression analyses in 768 tumors representing 21 entities including Ewing-like sarcomas, which confirmed that CIC-DUX4-, BCOR-CCNB3-, EWSR1-NFATc2-, and EWSR1-ETS-translocated sarcomas are distinct entities, and revealed that ATP1A1, BCL11B, and GLG1 constitute specific markers for Ewing sarcoma. Their high expression was validated by immunohistochemistry and proved to depend on EWSR1-FLI1-binding to highly active proximal super-enhancers. Automated cut-off-finding and combination-testing in a tissue-microarray comprising 174 samples demonstrated that detection of high BCL11B and/or GLG1 expression is sufficient to reach 96% specificity for Ewing sarcoma. While 88% of tested Ewing-like sarcomas displayed strong CD99-immunoreactivity, none displayed combined strong BCL11B- and GLG1-immunoreactivity. Collectively, we show that ATP1A1, BCL11B, and GLG1 are EWSR1-FLI1 targets, of which BCL11B and GLG1 offer a fast, simple, and cost-efficient way to diagnose Ewing sarcoma by immunohistochemistry. These markers may significantly reduce the number of misdiagnosed patients, and thus improve patient care.
B-cell CLL/lymphoma 11B (Bcl11b) - a C2H2 zinc finger transcriptional factor - is known to regulate neuronal differentiation and function in the development of the central nervous system (CNS). Although its expression is reduced during oligodendrocyte (OLG) differentiation, its biological role in OLGs remains unknown. In this study, we found that the downregulation of Bcl11b gene expression in glial progenitor cells (GPCs) by lentivirus-mediated gene knockdown (KD) causes a reduction in cell proliferation with inhibited expression of stemness-related genes, while increasing the expression of cell cyclin regulator p21. In contrast, OLG specific transcription factors (Olig1) and OLG cell markers, including myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), were upregulated in Bcl11b-KD GPCs. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis indicated that Bcl11b bound to the promoters of Olig1 and PLP, suggesting that Bcl11b could act as a repressor for Olig1 and PLP, similar to its action on p21. An increase in the number of GC+- or PLP+- OLGs derived from Bcl11b-KD GPCs or OLG precursor cells was also observed. Moreover, myelin basic protein (MBP) expression in OLGs derived from Bcl11b-KD GPCs was enhanced in hippocampal neuron co-cultures and in cerebellar brain-slice cultures. The in vivo study using a lysolecithin-induced demyelinating animal model also indicated that larger amounts of MBP+-OLGs and PLP+-OLGs derived from implanted Bcl11b-KD GPCs were present at the lesioned site of the white matter than in the scramble group. Taken together, our results provide insight into the functional role of Bcl11b in the negative regulation of GPC differentiation through the repression of OLG differentiation-associated genes.
Several evidences indicate that aging negatively affects the effectiveness of influenza vaccination. Although it is well established that immunosenescence has an important role in vaccination response, the molecular pathways underlying this process are largely unknown. Given the importance of epigenetic remodeling in aging, here we analyzed the relationship between responsiveness to influenza vaccination and DNA methylation profiles in healthy subjects of different ages. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were collected from 44 subjects (age range: 19-90 years old) immediately before influenza vaccination. Subjects were subsequently classified as responders or non-responders according to hemagglutination inhibition assay 4-6 weeks after the vaccination. Baseline whole genome DNA methylation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells was analyzed using the Illumina® Infinium 450 k microarray. Differential methylation analysis between the two groups (responders and non-responders) was performed through an analysis of variance, correcting for age, sex and batch. We identified 83 CpG sites having a nominal p-value <.001 and absolute difference in DNA methylation of at least 0.05 between the two groups. For some CpG sites, we observed age-dependent decrease or increase in methylation, which in some cases was specific for the responders and non-responders groups. Finally, we divided the cohort in two subgroups including younger (age < 50) and older (age ≥ 50) subjects and compared DNA methylation between responders and non-responders, correcting for sex and batch in each subgroup. We identified 142 differentially methylated CpG sites in the young subgroup and 305 in the old subgroup, suggesting a larger epigenetic remodeling at older ages. Interestingly, some of the differentially methylated probes mapped in genes involved in immunosenescence (CD40) and in innate immunity responses (CXCL16, ULK1, BCL11B, BTC). In conclusion, the analysis of epigenetic landscape can shed light on the biological basis of vaccine responsiveness during aging, possibly providing new appropriate biomarkers of this process.
The BCL11B gene encodes a Krüppel-like, sequence-specific zinc finger (ZF) transcription factor that acts as either a repressor or an activator, depending on its posttranslational modifications. The importance of BCL11B in numerous biological processes in multiple organs has been well established in mouse knockout models. The phenotype of the first de novo monoallelic germ line missense mutation in the BCL11B gene (encoding N441K) strongly implies that the mutant protein acts in a dominant-negative manner by neutralizing the unaffected protein through the formation of a nonfunctional dimer. Using a Förster resonance energy transfer-assisted fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS-FRET) assay and affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry (AP-MS), we show that the N-terminal CCHC zinc finger motif is necessary and sufficient for the formation of the BCL11B dimer. Mutation of the CCHC ZF in BCL11B abolishes its transcription-regulatory activity. In addition, unlike wild-type BCL11B, this mutant is incapable of inducing cell cycle arrest and protecting against DNA damage-driven apoptosis. Our results confirm the BCL11B dimerization hypothesis and prove its importance for BCL11B function. By mapping the relevant regions to the CCHC domain, we describe a previously unidentified mechanism of transcription factor homodimerization.
OBJECTIVE: Homeostatic synaptic plasticity (HSP) serves as a gain control mechanism at central nervous system (CNS) synapses, including those between the dentate gyrus (DG) and CA3. Improper circuit control of DG-CA3 synapses is hypothesized to underlie epileptogenesis. Here, we sought to (1) identify compounds that preferentially modulate DG-CA3 synapses in primary neuronal culture and (2) determine if these compounds would delay or prevent epileptogenesis in vivo.METHODS: We previously developed and validated an in vitro assay to visualize the behavior of DG-CA3 synapses and predict functional changes. We used this "synapse-on-chip" assay (quantification of synapse size, number, and type using immunocytochemical markers) to dissect the mechanisms of HSP at DG-CA3 synapses. Using chemogenetic constructs and pharmacological agents we determined the signaling cascades necessary for gain control at DG-CA3 synapses. Finally, we tested the implicated cascades (using kappa opioid receptor (OR) agonists and antagonists) in two models of epileptogenesis: electrical amygdala kindling in the mouse and chemical (pentylenetetrazole) kindling in the rat.RESULTS: In vitro, synapses between DG mossy fibers (MFs) and CA3 neurons are the primary homeostatic responders during sustained periods of activity change. Kappa OR signaling is both necessary and sufficient for the homeostatic elaboration of DG-CA3 synapses, induced by presynaptic DG activity levels. Blocking kappa OR signaling in vivo attenuates the development of seizures in both mouse and rat models of epilepsy.SIGNIFICANCE: This study elucidates mechanisms by which synapses between DG granule cells and CA3 pyramidal neurons undergo activity-dependent homeostatic compensation, via OR signaling in vitro. Modulation of kappa OR signaling in vivo alters seizure progression, suggesting that breakdown of homeostatic closed-loop control at DG-CA3 synapses contributes to seizures, and that targeting endogenous homeostatic mechanisms at DG-CA3 synapses may prove useful in combating epileptogenesis.
We recently found that a unique subset of innate-like γδ T cells develops from the DN2a stage of the fetal thymus independently of the zinc-finger transcription factor B cell leukemia/lymphoma 11b (Bcl11b). Herein, we characterize these Bcl11b-independent γδ T cells in the periphery as CD5-NK1.1+ and Granzyme B+, and we show that they are capable of producing interferon (IFN)-γ upon T cell receptor stimulation without Ca2+ influx. In wild-type mice, these cells were sparse in lymphoid tissues but abundant in non-lymphoid tissues, such as the liver. Bcl11b-independent CD5-NK1.1+ γδ T cells appeared and contributed to early protection before Bcl11b-dependent CD5+NK1.1- γδ T cells following Listeria monocytogenes infection, resembling their sequential appearance during development in the thymus.
Kidney transplantation is an effective final therapeutic procedure for patients with end-stage kidney failure. Although advanced immunosuppressive therapy is administered following transplantation, certain patients still suffer from acute allograft rejection. MicroRNAs (miRs) have a potential diagnostic and therapeutic value for acute renal allograft rejection; however, their underlying mechanism of action is largely unknown. In the present study, an increased level of miR-650 was identified to be associated with the downregulation of B-cell CLL/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) expression in acute renal allograft rejection. Furthermore, in vitro study using human renal glomerular endothelial cells (HRGECs) transfected with a miR-650 mimic revealed that key characteristics of acute renal allograft rejection were observed, including apoptosis, the release of cytokines and the chemotaxis of macrophages, while the effects were reduced in HRGECs transfected with a miR-650 inhibitor. The existence of a conserved miR-650 binding site on the 3'-untranslated region of BCL11B mRNA was predicted by computational algorithms and confirmed by a luciferase reporter assay. Knockdown of BCL11B with small interfering RNA (siRNA) significantly increased the apoptotic rate and significantly decreased the proliferation ability of HRGECs compared with the negative control group. HRGECs transfected with a combination of BCL11B siRNA and the miR-650 mimic demonstrated a significant increase in the rate of apoptosis compared with the control. These results suggest that the upregulation of miR-650 contributes to the development of acute renal allograft rejection by suppression of BCL11B, which leads to apoptosis and inflammatory responses. Thus, miR-650 and BCL11B may represent potential therapeutic targets for the prevention of acute renal allograft rejection.
Author information:(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia.(2)Department of Psychology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia.(3)Karabuk University, Karabuk, Turkey.(4)Virginia Commonwealth University Alcohol Research Center, Richmond, Virginia.(5)Department of Human and Molecular Genetics, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia.
Intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) are resident cells localized within the intestinal epithelia and play an important role in regulating gut inflammations and host defense against pathogens. CD8α+ TCRαβ+ IELs are heterogeneous populations that are generated from T cell precursors including CD4- CD8α- double-negative (DN) cells and CD4+ CD8α+ double-positive (DP) cells. However, developmental pathways of TCRαβ+ IELs remained unclear. To gain insight into the mechanisms, we generated mice (Bcl11bΔDN2 mice) that lack thymic precursors (DN CD5+ TCRβ+ cells) for CD4- CD8αα+ TCRαβ+ IELs. Unexpectedly, we found that, in the absence of the precursors in thymi of Bcl11bΔDN2 mice, CD4- CD8αα+ TCRαβ+ IELs were still present in the intestine though the number was reduced. Adoptive transfer experiment showed that their precursors were highly enriched in CD8α+ TCRβ- thymocytes. The CD4- CD8αα+ TCRαβ+ IELs in Bcl11bΔDN2 mice are distinguished by Thy1.2 expression and are indeed present in WT mice. Taken together, our study reveal a novel developmental pathway for CD8αα+ TCRαβ+ IELs.
T-lineage committed precursor thymocytes are screened by a fate-determination process mediated via T cell receptor (TCR) signals for differentiation into distinct lineages. However, it remains unclear whether any antecedent event is required to couple TCR signals with the transcriptional program governing lineage decisions. Here we show that Bcl11b, known as a T-lineage commitment factor, is essential for proper expression of ThPOK and Runx3, central regulators for the CD4-helper/CD8-cytotoxic lineage choice. Loss of Bcl11b results in random expression of these factors and, thereby, lineage scrambling that is disconnected from TCR restriction by MHC. Initial Thpok repression by Bcl11b prior to the pre-selection stage is independent of a known silencer for Thpok, and requires the last zinc-finger motif in Bcl11b protein, which by contrast is dispensable for T-lineage commitment. Collectively, our findings shed new light on the function of Bcl11b in priming lineage-specifying genes to integrate TCR signals into subsequent transcriptional regulatory mechanisms.CD4 and CD8 T cells develop in the thymus with their transcription programs controlled by ThPOK and Runx3, respectively. Here the authors show that a pre-commitment event modulated by the transcription factor, Bcl11b, is required for the proper expression of ThPOK and Runx3 and correct CD4/CD8 lineage commitment.
Objective It has been postulated that the normal counterpart of angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) is the follicular helper T-cell (TFH). Recent immunological studies have identified several transcription factors responsible for T-cell differentiation. The master regulators associated with T-cell, helper T-cell (Th), and TFH differentiation are reportedly BCL11B, Th-POK, and BCL6, respectively. We explored the postulated normal counterpart of AITL with respect to the expression of the master regulators of T-cell differentiation. Methods We performed an immunohistochemical analysis in 15 AITL patients to determine the expression of the master regulators and several surface markers associated with T-cell differentiation. Results BCL11B was detected in 10 patients (67%), and the surface marker of T-cells (CD3) was detected in all patients. Only 2 patients (13%) expressed the marker of naïve T-cells (CD45RA), but all patients expressed the marker of effector T-cells (CD45RO). Nine patients expressed Th-POK (60%), and 7 (47%) expressed a set of surface antigens of Th (CD4-positive and CD8-negative). In addition, BCL6 and the surface markers of TFH (CXCL13, PD-1, and SAP) were detected in 11 (73%), 8 (53%), 14 (93%), and all patients, respectively. Th-POK-positive/BCL6-negative patients showed a significantly shorter overall survival (OS) than the other patients (median OS: 33.0 months vs. 74.0 months, p=0.020; log-rank test). Conclusion Many of the AITL patients analyzed in this study expressed the master regulators of T-cell differentiation. The clarification of the diagnostic significance and pathophysiology based on the expression of these master regulators in AITL is expected in the future.
Comment in    Nat Rev Genet. 2017 Oct 16;18(11):638-639.
T cells develop from hematopoietic stem cells in the specialized microenvironment of the thymus. The main transcriptional players of T-cell differentiation such as Notch, Tcf-1, Gata3 and Bcl11b have been identified, but their role and regulation are not yet completely understood. In humans, functional experiments on T-cell development have traditionally been rather difficult to perform, but novel in vitro culture systems and in vivo xenograft models have allowed detailed studies on human T-cell development. Recent work has allowed the use of human severe combined immunodeficiency stem cells to unravel developmental checkpoints for human thymocyte development.
The purpose of our study was to identify new pathogenic genes used for exploring the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). To screen pathogenic genes of RA, an integrated analysis was performed by using the microarray datasets in RA derived from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The functional annotation and potential pathways of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were further discovered by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis. Afterwards, the integrated analysis of DNA methylation and gene expression profiling was used to screen crucial genes. In addition, we used RT-PCR and MSP to verify the expression levels and methylation status of these crucial genes in 20 synovial biopsy samples obtained from 10 RA model mice and 10 normal mice. BCL11B, CCDC88C, FCRLA and APOL6 were both up-regulated and hypomethylated in RA according to integrated analysis, RT-PCR and MSP verification. Four crucial genes (BCL11B, CCDC88C, FCRLA and APOL6) identified and analyzed in this study might be closely connected with the pathogenesis of RA.
Changes in social preference of amphibian larvae result from sustained exposure to kinship odorants. To understand the molecular and cellular mechanisms of this neuroplasticity, we investigated the effects of olfactory system activation on neurotransmitter (NT) expression in accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) interneurons during development. We show that protracted exposure to kin or non-kin odorants changes the number of dopamine (DA)- or gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)-expressing neurons, with corresponding changes in attraction/aversion behavior. Changing the relative number of dopaminergic and GABAergic AOB interneurons or locally introducing DA or GABA receptor antagonists alters kinship preference. We then isolate AOB microRNAs (miRs) differentially regulated across these conditions. Inhibition of miR-375 and miR-200b reveals that they target Pax6 and Bcl11b to regulate the dopaminergic and GABAergic phenotypes. The results illuminate the role of NT switching governing experience-dependent social preference. VIDEO ABSTRACT.
Advances in basic immunology in 2016 included studies that further characterized the role of different proteins in the differentiation of effector T and B cells, including cytokines and proteins involved in the actin cytoskeleton. Regulation of granule formation and secretion in cytotoxic cells was also further described by examining patients with familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. The role of prenylation in patients with mevalonate kinase deficiency leading to inflammation has been established. We reviewed advances in clinical immunology, as well as new approaches of whole-genome sequencing and genes newly reported to be associated with immunodeficiency, such as linker of activation of T cells (LAT); B-cell CLL/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B); RGD, leucine-rich repeat, tropomodulin domain, and proline-rich domain-containing protein (RLTPR); moesin; and Janus kinase 1 (JAK1). Trials of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and gene therapy for primary immunodeficiency have had relative success; the use of autologous virus-specific cytotoxic T cells has proved effective as well. New medications are being explored, such as pioglitazone, which is under study for its role in enhancing the oxidative burst in patients with chronic granulomatous disease. Development of vaccines for HIV infection continues to provide insight into the immune response against a virus with an extraordinary mutation rate.
Methylation of DNA is one of the important regulatory mechanisms of gene transcription. B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) plays a key role in the development, proliferation, differentiation, and survival of T cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate promoter methylation of BCL11B gene and its mRNA level in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) patients in relation to healthy controls and evaluate their correlation with diseases clinical indices. Fifty AS patients and 50 healthy controls entered in this study. PBMCs were isolated from whole blood and RNA and DNA contents of leukocytes were extracted. The expression level of BCL11B gene was measured through real-time PCR assay using SYBR Green Master Mix, and PCR products of bisulfite-treated DNA were sequenced to determine the methylation level of promoter. Decreased transcript and increased promoter methylation levels of BCL11B gene were identified in AS patients compared with healthy controls. Hypermethylation of CpG3 and CpG5 was associated with increased AS risk. Promoter hypermethylation and mRNA overexpression correlated with each other but not with clinical manifestations. We identified aberrancies in expression and methylation of BCL11B gene in AS patients compared with healthy control group; however, they might not impress the clinical face of AS.
BACKGROUND: Generation of different neuronal subtypes during neocortical development is the most important step in the establishment of cortical cytoarchitecture. The transcription factor Satb2 is expressed in neocortical projection neurons that send their axons intracortically as opposed to Satb2-negative neurons that preferentially project to subcortical targets.NEW METHOD: In this report, we present a novel method to carry out large scale screening for molecules that control cell fate in the developing neocortex. It is based on a Satb2Cre/+ mouse strain that expresses Cre recombinase from the Satb2 locus.RESULTS: By transfecting neuronould determine the proportion of cells that become al progenitors with a Cre-inducible reporter construct by nucleofection or in utero electroporation, we cSatb2-positive.COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: Compared to genetic tracing or lineage analysis, this method offers a fast, easy-to-perform, and reliable way of determining cell fate of newly born neurons.CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that the Satb2Cre/+ mouse can be applied to study factors, such as small molecule inhibitors, sh-RNAs or overexpression constructs, that can alter the proportion of Satb2-positive cells and thus play key roles in differentiation and acquisition of cell fate.
iNKT cells are a unique lineage of T cells that recognize glycolipid presented by CD1d. In the thymus, they differentiate into iNKT1, iNKT2 and iNKT17 effector subsets, characterized by preferential expression of Tbet, Gata3 and ROR-γt and production of IFN-γ, IL-4 and IL-17, respectively. We demonstrate that the transcriptional regulator Runx1 is essential for the generation of ROR-γt expressing iNKT17 cells. PLZF-cre Runx1 cKO mice lack iNKT17 cells in the thymus, spleen and liver. Runx1-deficient iNKT cells have altered expression of several genes important for iNKT17 differentiation, including decreased expression of IL-7Rα, BATF and c-Maf and increased expression of Bcl11b and Lef1. However, reduction of Lef1 expression or introduction of an IL-7Rα transgene is not sufficient to correct the defect in iNKT17 differentiation, demonstrating that Runx1 is a key regulator of several genes required for iNKT17 differentiation. Loss of Runx1 leads to a severe decrease in iNKT cell numbers in the thymus, spleen and liver. The decrease in cell number is due to a combined decrease in proliferation at Stage 1 during thymic development and increased apoptosis. Thus, we describe a novel role of Runx1 in iNKT cell development and differentiation, particularly in orchestrating iNKT17 differentiation.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is a causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma (ATLL). The HTLV-1-encoded protein Tax plays important roles in the proliferation of HTLV-1-infected T-cells by affecting cellular proteins. In this study, we showed that Tax transcriptionally and post-transcriptionally downregulates the expression of the tumor suppressor gene B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B), which encodes a lymphoid-related transcription factor. BCL11B expression was downregulated in HTLV-1-infected T-cell lines at the mRNA and protein levels, and forced expression of BCL11B suppressed the proliferation of these cells. The proteasomal inhibitor MG132 increased BCL11B expression in HTLV-1-infected cell lines, and colocalization of Tax with BCL11B was detected in the cytoplasm of HTLV-1-infected T-cells following MG132 treatment. shRNA knock-down of Tax expression also increased the expression of BCL11B in HTLV-1-infected cells. Moreover, we found that Tax physically binds to BCL11B protein and induces the polyubiquitination of BCL11B and proteasome-dependent degradation of BCL11B. Thus, inactivation of BCL11B by Tax protein may play an important role in the Tax-mediated leukemogenesis.
Marek's disease (MD), caused by Marek's disease virus (MDV), is a lymphotropic neoplastic disease. Previous miRNAome analysis showed gga-miR-219b was significantly downregulated in MDV-induced lymphoma, and one of its potential target genes, B-cell chronic lymphocytic /lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) was predicted. In this study, we further investigated the function of gga-miR-219b, and the gain/loss of function assay showed gga-miR-219b inhibited cell migration and reduced cell proliferation by promoting apoptosis not by cell cycle arrest. Gga-miR-219b also suppressed expression of two cell invasion-related genes MMP2 and MMP9. The results indicated suppressive effect of gga-miR-219b on MD tumorigenesis. The gene BCL11B was verified as a direct target gene of gga-miR-219b. RNA interference was performed to block BCL11B. As expected, the effects triggered by BCL11B downregulation were in accordance with that triggered by gga-miR-219b overexpression, suggesting that BCL11B was a stimulative regulator of MD transformation. Moreover, both gga-miR-219b and BCL11B influenced the expression of Meq gene, the most important oncogene in MDV. Additionally, gene expression level of anti-apoptotic genes BCL2 and BCL2L1 was downregulated and pro-apoptotic gene TNFSF10 was upregulated in MSB1 cells with gga-miR-219b overexpression or BCL11B knockdown, which suggested gga-miR-219b promoted cell apoptosis via regulating gene expression in the apoptosis pathways.
T-cell development from hematopoietic progenitors depends on multiple transcription factors, mobilized and modulated by intrathymic Notch signaling. Key aspects of T-cell specification network architecture have been illuminated through recent reports defining roles of transcription factors PU.1, GATA-3, and E2A, their interactions with Notch signaling, and roles of Runx1, TCF-1, and Hes1, providing bases for a comprehensively updated model of the T-cell specification gene regulatory network presented herein. However, the role of lineage commitment factor Bcl11b has been unclear. We use self-organizing maps on 63 RNA-seq datasets from normal and perturbed T-cell development to identify functional targets of Bcl11b during commitment and relate them to other regulomes. We show that both activation and repression target genes can be bound by Bcl11b in vivo, and that Bcl11b effects overlap with E2A-dependent effects. The newly clarified role of Bcl11b distinguishes discrete components of commitment, resolving how innate lymphoid, myeloid, and dendritic, and B-cell fate alternatives are excluded by different mechanisms.
CD147 is highly expressed on the surface of numerous tumor cells to promote invasion and metastasis. Targeting these cells with CD147-specific antibodies has been validated as an effective approach for lung and liver cancer therapy. In the immune system, CD147 is recognized as a co-stimulatory receptor and impacts the outcome of thymic selection. Using T cell-specific deletion, we showed here that in thymus CD147 is indispensable for the stable αβ T cell lineage commitment: loss of CD147 biases both multipotent DN (double negative) and fully committed DP (double positive) cells into innate NK-like lineages. Mechanistically, CD147 deficiency results in impaired Wnt signaling and expression of BCL11b, a master transcription factor in determining T cell identity. In addition, functional blocking of CD147 by antibody phenocopies genetic deletion to enrich NK-like cells in the periphery. Furthermore, using a melanoma model and orthotopic liver cancer transplants, we showed that the augmentation of NK-like cells strongly associates with resistance against tumor growth upon CD147 suppression. Therefore, besides its original function in tumorigenesis, CD147 is also an effective surface target for immune modulation in tumor therapy.
B cell leukemia 11b (Bcl11b) is a zinc finger protein transcription factor with a multiplicity of functions. It works as both a genetic suppressor and activator, acting directly, attaching to promoter regions, as well as indirectly, attaching to promoter-bound transcription factors. Bcl11b is a fundamental transcription factor in fetal development, with important roles for the differentiation and development of various neuronal subtypes in the central nervous system (CNS). It has been used as a specific marker of layer V subcerebral projection neurons as well as striatal interneurons. Bcl11b also has critical developmental functions in the immune, integumentary and cardiac systems, to the extent that Bcl11b knockout mice are incompatible with extra-uterine life. Bcl11b has been implicated in a number of disease states including Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease, HIV and T-Cell malignancy, amongst others. Bcl11b is a fascinating protein whose critical roles in the CNS and other parts of the body are yet to be fully explicated. This review summarizes the current literature on Bcl11b and its functions in development, health, and disease as well as future directions for research.
The treatment options for advanced cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) are limited because of its unclear pathogenesis. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors (HDACis) are recently developed therapeutics approved for refractory CTCL. However, the response rate is relatively low and unpredictable. Previously, we discovered that BCL11B, a key T-cell development regulator, was aberrantly overexpressed in mycosis fungoides, the most common CTCL, as compared with benign inflammatory skin. In this study, we identified a positive correlation between BCL11B expression and sensitivity to HDACi in CTCL lines. BCL11B suppression in BCL11B-high cells induced cell apoptosis by de-repressing apoptotic pathways and showed synergistic effects with suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA), a pan-HDACi. Next, we identified the physical interaction and shared downstream genes between BCL11B and HDAC1/2 in CTCL lines. This interaction was essential in the anti-apoptosis effect of BCL11B, and the synergism between BCL11B suppression and HDACi treatment. Further, in clinical samples from 46 mycosis fungoides patients, BCL11B showed increased but varied expression in advanced tumor stage. Analysis of four patients receiving SAHA treatment suggested a positive correlation between BCL11B expression and favorable response to SAHA treatment. In conclusion, BCL11B may serve as a therapeutic target and a useful marker for improving HDACi efficacy in advanced CTCL.
The initial stages of T-cell differentiation are characterized by a progressive commitment to the T-cell lineage, a process that involves the loss of alternative (myelo-erythroid, NK, B) lineage potentials. Aberrant differentiation during these stages can result in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). However, the mechanisms regulating the initial stages of human T-cell differentiation are obscure. Through loss of function studies, we showed BCL11B, a transcription factor recurrently mutated T-ALL, is essential for T-lineage commitment, particularly the repression of NK and myeloid potentials, and the induction of T-lineage genes, during the initial stages of human T-cell differentiation. In gain of function studies, BCL11B inhibited growth of and induced a T-lineage transcriptional program in T-ALL cells. We found previously unknown differentiation stage-specific DNA binding of BCL11B at multiple T-lineage genes; target genes showed BCL11B-dependent expression, suggesting a transcriptional activator role for BCL11B at these genes. Transcriptional analyses revealed differences in the regulatory actions of BCL11B between human and murine thymopoiesis. Our studies show BCL11B is a key regulator of the initial stages of human T-cell differentiation and delineate the BCL11B transcriptional program, enabling the dissection of the underpinnings of normal T-cell differentiation and providing a resource for understanding dysregulations in T-ALL.
Medium spiny neurons (MSNs) are a key population in the basal ganglia network, and their degeneration causes a severe neurodegenerative disorder, Huntington's disease. Understanding how ventral neuroepithelial progenitors differentiate into MSNs is critical for regenerative medicine to develop specific differentiation protocols using human pluripotent stem cells. Studies performed in murine models have identified some transcriptional determinants, including GS Homeobox 2 (Gsx2) and Early B-cell factor 1 (Ebf1). Here, we have generated human embryonic stem (hES) cell lines inducible for these transcription factors, with the aims of (i) studying their biological role in human neural progenitors and (ii) incorporating TF conditional expression in a developmental-based protocol for generating MSNs from hES cells. Using this approach, we found that Gsx2 delays cell-cycle exit and reduces Pax6 expression, whereas Ebf1 promotes neuronal differentiation. Moreover, we found that Gsx2 and Ebf1 combined overexpression in hES cells achieves high yields of MSNs, expressing Darpp32 and Ctip2, in vitro as well in vivo after transplantation. We show that hES-derived striatal progenitors can be transplanted in animal models and can differentiate and integrate into the host, extending fibers over a long distance.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This study aimed to evaluate current barriers to HIV cure strategies and interventions for neurocognitive dysfunction with a particular focus on recent advancements over the last 3 years.RECENT FINDINGS: Optimal anti-retroviral therapy (ART) poses challenges to minimise neurotoxicity, whilst ensuring blood-brain barrier penetration and minimising the risk of cerebrovascular disease. CSF biomarkers, BCL11B and neurofilament light chain may be implicated with a neuroinflammatory cascade leading to cognitive impairment. Diagnostic imaging with diffusion tensor imaging and resting-state fMRI show promise in future diagnosis and monitoring of HAND. The introduction of ART has resulted in a dramatic decline in HIV-associated dementia. Despite this reduction, milder forms of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) are still prevalent and are clinically significant. The central nervous system (CNS) has been recognised as a probable reservoir and sanctuary for HIV, representing a significant barrier to management interventions.
BCL11B is a zinc finger-type transcription factor that regulates the development of the white adipose tissue (WAT), skin, central nervous system, and immune system. BCL11B is required for proper adipocyte differentiation, and BCL11B-/- embryos at E19.5 have very low amounts of the subcutaneous WAT. Here, we demonstrated that BCL11B+/- mice have lower body weight than BCL11B+/+ mice, whereas the expression of adipogenic marker genes in the WAT was comparable between BCL11B+/+ and BCL11B+/- mice. Histological analysis indicated that BCL11B+/- mice fed a high-fat diet have much smaller white adipocytes and lipid droplets in the WAT and liver, respectively. In addition, BCL11B+/- mice had increased energy consumption under both standard and high-fat diets. Thus, this study identifies BCL11B as a regulator of energy metabolism, and it is unlikely that BCL11B functions in the WAT contribute to energy metabolism in BCL11B+/- mice.
Comment in    Stem Cell Investig. 2017 May 26;4:45.
Ethephon can liberate ethylene which could interfere the plant growth process. The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of ethephon on developing immune system of male offspring. Ethephon could enhance NK cell activity in male mice. For 4-week-old male mice, lymphocytes of peripheral blood increased while the hemolytic plaque number decreased. Delayed type hypersensitivity(DTH) was inhibited in all groups. The expression of protein Bcl11b and p-p38 in thymus of treatment groups were lower than control group. Our results indicated that cellular immunity of male offspring is more sensitive to ethephon when exposed in pregnancy and lactation period. It should be emphasized that exposure to ethephon during the in utero stage and lactation stage still could damage the immune function of animal in the period before fully mature even in the dosage that could not influence the immune function of adult animal.
Comment in    Sci Transl Med. 2016 Dec 14;8(369):369ec199.
Amelogenesis, beginning with thickened epithelial aggregation and ending with highly mineralized enamel formation, is a process mediated by a complex signaling network that involves several molecules, including growth and transcription factors. During early tooth development, the transcription factor B‑cell CLL/lymphoma 11B (Bcl11b) participates in dental epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation. However, whether it affects the postnatal regulation of enamel matrix protein expression and ameloblast differentiation remains unclear. To clarify the role of Bcl11b in enamel development, the present study initially detected the protein expression levels of Bcl11b during tooth development using immunohistochemistry, from the embryonic lamina stage to the postnatal period, and demonstrated that Bcl11b is predominantly restricted to cervical loop epithelial cells at the cap and bell stages, whereas expression is reduced in ameloblasts. Notably, the expression pattern of Bcl11b during tooth development differed between rats and mice. Knockdown of Bcl11b by specific small interfering RNA attenuated the expression of enamel‑associated genes, including amelogenin, X‑linked (Amelx), ameloblastin (Ambn), enamelin (Enam), kallikrein related peptidase 4 (Klk4), matrix metallopeptidase 20 and Msh homeobox 2 (Msx2). Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay verified that Msx2 was a transcriptional target of Bcl11b. However, overexpression of Msx2 resulted in downregulation of enamel‑associated genes, including Ambn, Amelx, Enam and Klk4. The present study suggested that Bcl11b serves a potentially important role in the regulation of ameloblast differentiation and enamel matrix protein expression. In addition, a complex feedback regulatory network may exist between Bcl11b and Msx2.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) functionally resemble T lymphocytes in cytotoxicity and cytokine production but lack antigen-specific receptors, and they are important regulators of immune responses and tissue homeostasis. ILCs are generated from common lymphoid progenitors, which are subsequently committed to innate lymphoid lineages in the α-lymphoid progenitor, early innate lymphoid progenitor, common helper innate lymphoid progenitor and innate lymphoid cell progenitor compartments. ILCs consist of conventional natural killer cells and helper-like cells (ILC1, ILC2 and ILC3). Despite recent advances, the cellular heterogeneity, developmental trajectory and signalling dependence of ILC progenitors are not fully understood. Here, using single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) of mouse bone marrow progenitors, we reveal ILC precursor subsets, delineate distinct ILC development stages and pathways, and report that high expression of programmed death 1 (PD-1hi) marked a committed ILC progenitor that was essentially identical to an innate lymphoid cell progenitor. Our data defined PD-1hiIL-25Rhi as an early checkpoint in ILC2 development, which was abolished by deficiency in the zinc-finger protein Bcl11b but restored by IL-25R overexpression. Similar to T lymphocytes, PD-1 was upregulated on activated ILCs. Administration of a PD-1 antibody depleted PD-1hi ILCs and reduced cytokine levels in an influenza infection model in mice, and blocked papain-induced acute lung inflammation. These results provide a perspective for exploring PD-1 and its ligand (PD-L1) in immunotherapy, and allow effective manipulation of the immune system for disease prevention and therapy.
CD8+ T cells play an important role in host resistance to many viral infections, but the underlying transcriptional mechanisms governing their differentiation and functionality remain poorly defined. By using a highly virulent systemic and respiratory poxvirus infection in mice, we show that the transcription factor Bcl11b provides a dual trigger that sustains the clonal expansion of virus-specific effector CD8+ T cells, while simultaneously suppressing the expression of surface markers associated with short-lived effector cell (SLEC) differentiation. Additionally, we demonstrate that Bcl11b supports the acquisition of memory precursor effector cell (MPEC) phenotype and, thus, its absence causes near complete loss of lymphoid and lung-resident memory cells. Interestingly, despite having normal levels of T-bet and Eomesodermin, Bcl11b-deficient CD8+ T cells failed to execute effector differentiation needed for anti-viral cytokine production and degranulation, suggesting a non-redundant role of Bcl11b in regulation of this program. Thus, Bcl11b is a critical player in fate decision of SLECs and MPECs, as well as effector function and memory formation.
Epigenetic mechanisms are an important heritable and dynamic means of regulating various genomic functions, including gene expression, to orchestrate brain development, adult neurogenesis, and synaptic plasticity. These processes when perturbed are thought to contribute to schizophrenia pathophysiology. A core feature of schizophrenia is cognitive dysfunction. For genetic disorders where cognitive impairment is more severe such as intellectual disability, there are a disproportionally high number of genes involved in the epigenetic regulation of gene transcription. Evidence now supports some shared genetic aetiology between schizophrenia and intellectual disability. GWAS have identified 108 chromosomal regions associated with schizophrenia risk that span 350 genes. This study identified genes mapping to those loci that have epigenetic functions, and tested the risk alleles defining those loci for association with cognitive deficits. We developed a list of 350 genes with epigenetic functions and cross-referenced this with the GWAS loci. This identified eight candidate genes: BCL11B, CHD7, EP300, EPC2, GATAD2A, KDM3B, RERE, SATB2. Using a dataset of Irish psychosis cases and controls (n = 1235), the schizophrenia risk SNPs at these loci were tested for effects on IQ, working memory, episodic memory, and attention. Strongest associations were for rs6984242 with both measures of IQ (P = 0.001) and episodic memory (P = 0.007). We link rs6984242 to CHD7 via a long range eQTL. These associations were not replicated in independent samples. Our study highlights that a number of genes mapping to risk loci for schizophrenia may function as epigenetic regulators of gene expression but further studies are required to establish a role for these genes in cognition. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Erratum in    Sci Rep. 2017 Feb 10;7:39569.
The differentiation of preadipocytes into adipocytes is controlled by several transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBPα), which are known as master regulators of adipogenesis. BCL11B is a zinc finger-type transcription factor that regulates the development of the skin and central nervous and immune systems. Here, we found that BCL11B was expressed in the white adipose tissue (WAT), particularly the subcutaneous WAT and that BCL11B(-/-) mice had a reduced amount of subcutaneous WAT. During adipogenesis, BCL11B expression transiently increased in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). The ability for adipogenesis was reduced in BCL11B knockdown 3T3-L1 cells and BCL11B(-/-) MEFs, whereas the ability for osteoblastogenesis was unaffected in BCL11B(-/-) MEFs. Luciferase reporter gene assays revealed that BCL11B stimulated C/EBPβ activity. Furthermore, the expression of downstream genes of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway was not suppressed in BCL11B(-/-) MEFs during adipogenesis. Thus, this study identifies BCL11B as a novel regulator of adipogenesis, which works, at least in part, by stimulating C/EBPβ activity and suppressing the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.
Oxidative stress and inflammatory insults are the major instigating events of bacterial intrauterine infection that lead to fetal brain injury. The purpose of this study is to investigate the remedial effects of N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) for inflammation-caused deficits in brain development. We found that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production by RAW264.7 cells. Macrophage-conditioned medium caused noticeable cortical cell damage, specifically in cortical neurons. LPS at 25 μg/kg caused more than 75% fetal loss in rats. An increase in fetal cortical thickness was noted in the LPS-treated group. In the enlarged fetal cortex, laminar positioning of the early born cortical cells expressing Tbr1 and Ctip2 was disrupted, with a scattered distribution. The effect was similar, but minor, in later born Satb2-expressing cortical cells. NAC protected against LPS-induced neuron toxicity in vitro and counteracted pregnancy loss and alterations in thickness and lamination of the neocortex in vivo. Fetal loss and abnormal fetal brain development were due to LPS-induced ROS production. NAC is an effective protective agent against LPS-induced damage. This finding highlights the key therapeutic impact of NAC in LPS-caused abnormal neuronal laminar distribution during brain development.
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: A cascade of gene activations under the control of Notch signalling is required during T-cell specification, when T-cell precursors gradually lose the potential to undertake other fates and become fully committed to the T-cell lineage. We elucidate how the gene/protein dynamics for a core transcriptional module governs this important process by computational means.METHODS: We first assembled existing knowledge about transcription factors known to be important for T-cell specification to form a minimal core module consisting of TCF-1, GATA-3, BCL11B, and PU.1 aiming at dynamical modeling. Model architecture was based on published experimental measurements of the effects on each factor when each of the others is perturbed. While several studies provided gene expression measurements at different stages of T-cell development, pure time series are not available, thus precluding a straightforward study of the dynamical interactions among these genes. We therefore translate stage dependent data into time series. A feed-forward motif with multiple positive feed-backs can account for the observed delay between BCL11B versus TCF-1 and GATA-3 activation by Notch signalling. With a novel computational approach, all 32 possible interactions among Notch signalling, TCF-1, and GATA-3 are explored by translating combinatorial logic expressions into differential equations for BCL11B production rate.RESULTS: Our analysis reveals that only 3 of 32 possible configurations, where GATA-3 works as a dimer, are able to explain not only the time delay, but very importantly, also give rise to irreversibility. The winning models explain the data within the 95% confidence region and are consistent with regard to decay rates.CONCLUSIONS: This first generation model for early T-cell specification has relatively few players. Yet it explains the gradual transition into a committed state with no return. Encoding logics in a rate equation setting allows determination of binding properties beyond what is possible in a Boolean network.
Developmental dyslexia is a common disorder with a strong genetic component, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are still unknown. Several candidate dyslexia-susceptibility genes, including KIAA0319, DYX1C1, and DCDC2, have been identified in humans. RNA interference experiments targeting these genes in rat embryos have shown impairments in neuronal migration, suggesting that defects in radial cortical migration could be involved in the disease mechanism of dyslexia. Here we present the first characterisation of a Kiaa0319 knockout mouse line. Animals lacking KIAA0319 protein do not show anatomical abnormalities in any of the layered structures of the brain. Neurogenesis and radial migration of cortical projection neurons are not altered, and the intrinsic electrophysiological properties of Kiaa0319-deficient neurons do not differ from those of wild-type neurons. Kiaa0319 overexpression in cortex delays radial migration, but does not affect final neuronal position. However, knockout animals show subtle differences suggesting possible alterations in anxiety-related behaviour and in sensorimotor gating. Our results do not reveal a migration disorder in the mouse model, adding to the body of evidence available for Dcdc2 and Dyx1c1 that, unlike in the rat in utero knockdown models, the dyslexia-susceptibility candidate mouse homolog genes do not play an evident role in neuronal migration. However, KIAA0319 protein expression seems to be restricted to the brain, not only in early developmental stages but also in adult mice, indicative of a role of this protein in brain function. The constitutive and conditional knockout lines reported here will be useful tools for further functional analyses of Kiaa0319.
The potential for epigenetic changes in host cells following microbial infection has been widely suggested, but few examples have been reported. We assessed genome-wide patterns of DNA methylation in human macrophage-like U937 cells following infection with Burkholderia pseudomallei, an intracellular bacterial pathogen and the causative agent of human melioidosis. Our analyses revealed significant changes in host cell DNA methylation, at multiple CpG sites in the host cell genome, following infection. Infection induced differentially methylated probes (iDMPs) showing the greatest changes in DNA methylation were found to be in the vicinity of genes involved in inflammatory responses, intracellular signalling, apoptosis and pathogen-induced signalling. A comparison of our data with reported methylome changes in cells infected with M. tuberculosis revealed commonality of differentially methylated genes, including genes involved in T cell responses (BCL11B, FOXO1, KIF13B, PAWR, SOX4, SYK), actin cytoskeleton organisation (ACTR3, CDC42BPA, DTNBP1, FERMT2, PRKCZ, RAC1), and cytokine production (FOXP1, IRF8, MR1). Overall our findings show that pathogenic-specific and pathogen-common changes in the methylome occur following infection.
Comment on    Nat Immunol. 2016 Aug;17 (8):956-65.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2016 Jul 19;17(8):903-4.
BACKGROUND: Xuesaitong soft capsule (XST) which consists of panax notoginseng saponin (PNS) has been used to treat ischemic cerebrovascular diseases in China. The therapeutic mechanism of XST has not been elucidated yet from prospective of genomics and bioinformatics.METHODS: A transcriptome analysis was performed to review series concerning middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) rat model and XST intervention after MCAO from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were compared between blank group and model group, model group and XST group. Functional enrichment and pathway analysis were performed. Protein-Protein interaction network was constructed. The overlapping genes from two DEGs sets were screened out and profound analysis was performed.RESULTS: Two series including 22 samples were obtained. 870 DEGs were identified between blank group and model group, and 1189 DEGs were identified between model group and XST group. GO terms and KEGG pathways of MCAO and XST intervention were significantly enriched. PPI networks were constructed to demonstrate the gene-gene interactions. The overlapping genes from two DEGs sets were highlighted. ANTXR2, FHL3, PRCP, TYROBP, TAF9B, FGFR2, BCL11B, RB1CC1 and MBNL2 were the pivotal genes and possible action sites of XST therapeutic mechanisms.CONCLUSION: MCAO is a pathological process with multiple.
Invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells are innate-like T cells that recognize glycolipid antigens and play critical roles in regulation of immune responses. Based on expression of the transcription factors (TFs) Tbet, Plzf, and Rorγt, iNKT cells have been classified in effector subsets that emerge in the thymus, namely, iNKT1, iNKT2, and iNKT17. Deficiency in the TF Bcl11b in double-positive (DP) thymocytes has been shown to cause absence of iNKT cells in the thymus and periphery due to defective self glycolipid processing and presentation by DP thymocytes and undefined intrinsic alterations in iNKT precursors. We used a model of cre-mediated postselection deletion of Bcl11b in iNKT cells to determine its intrinsic role in these cells. We found that Bcl11b is expressed equivalently in all three effector iNKT subsets, and its removal caused a reduction in the numbers of iNKT1 and iNKT2 cells, but not in the numbers of iNKT17 cells. Additionally, we show that Bcl11b sustains subset-specific cytokine production by iNKT1 and iNKT2 cells and restricts expression of iNKT17 genes in iNKT1 and iNKT2 subsets, overall restraining the iNKT17 program in iNKT cells. The total numbers of iNKT cells were reduced in the absence of Bcl11b both in the thymus and periphery, associated with the decrease in iNKT1 and iNKT2 cell numbers and decrease in survival, related to changes in survival/apoptosis genes. Thus, these results extend our understanding of the role of Bcl11b in iNKT cells beyond their selection and demonstrate that Bcl11b is a key regulator of iNKT effector subsets, their function, identity, and survival.
Mucinous gastric carcinoma (MGC) is a unique subtype of gastric cancer with a poor survival outcome. Comprehensive molecular profiles and putative therapeutic targets of MGC remain undetermined. We subjected 16 tumour-normal tissue pairs to whole-exome sequencing (WES) and an expanded set of 52 tumour-normal tissue pairs to subsequent targeted sequencing. The latter focused on 114 genes identified by WES. Twenty-two histologically differentiated MGCs (D-MGCs) and 46 undifferentiated MGCs (U-MGCs) were analysed. Chromatin modifier genes, including ARID1A (21%), MLL2 (19%), MLL3 (15%), and KDM6A (7%), were frequently mutated (47%) in MGC. We also identified mutations in potential therapeutic target genes, including MTOR (9%), BRCA2 (9%), BRCA1 (7%), and ERBB3 (6%). RHOA mutation was detected only in 4% of U-MGCs and in no D-MGCs. MYH9 was recurrently (13%) mutated in MGC, with all these being of the U-MGC subtype (p = 0.023). Three U-MGCs harboured MYH9 nonsense mutations. MYH9 knockdown enhanced cell migration and induced intracytoplasmic mucin and cellular elongation. BCOR mutation was associated with improved survival. In U-MGCs, the MLH1 expression status and combined mutation status (TP53/BCL11B or TP53/MLL2) were prognostic factors. A comparative analysis of driver genes revealed that the mutation profile of D-MGC was similar to that of intestinal-type gastric cancer, whereas U-MGC was a distinct entity, harbouring a different mutational profile to intestinal- and diffuse-type gastric cancers. Copyright © 2016 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) offer a renewable source of cells that can be expanded indefinitely and differentiated into virtually any type of cell in the human body, including neurons. This opens up unprecedented possibilities to study neuronal cell and developmental biology and cellular pathology of the nervous system, provides a platform for the screening of chemical libraries that affect these processes, and offers a potential source of transplantable cells for regenerative approaches to neurological disease. However, defining protocols that permit a large number and high yield of neurons has proved difficult. We present differentiation protocols for the generation of distinct subtypes of neurons in a highly reproducible manner, with minimal experiment-to-experiment variation. These neurons form synapses with neighboring cells, exhibit spontaneous electrical activity, and respond appropriately to depolarization. hPSC-derived neurons exhibit a high degree of maturation and survive in culture for up to 4-5 months, even without astrocyte feeder layers.
Molecular mechanisms underlying the development and morphogenesis of oral epithelia, comprising the gustatory and nongustatory epithelium, remain unclear. Here, we show that Bcl11b, a zinc finger transcription factor, plays an important role in the development of lingual papillae, especially filiform papillae. In both gustatory and nongustatory epithelium, Bcl11b was expressed in keratin 14-positive epithelial basal cells, which differentiate into keratinocytes and/or taste cells. Loss of Bcl11b function resulted in abnormal morphology of the gustatory papillae: flattened fungiform papillae, shorter trench wall in the foliate and circumvallate papillae, and ectopic invagination in more than half of circumvallate papillae. However, Bcl11b loss caused no effect on differentiation of taste receptor cells. In nongustatory epithelium, the impact of Bcl11b deficiency was much more striking, resulting in a smooth surface on the tongue tip and hypoplastic filiform papillae in the dorsal lingual epithelium. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that a keratinocyte differentiation marker, Tchh expression was severely decreased in the Bcl11b(-/-) filiform papillae. In addition, expression of Pax9, required for morphogenesis of filiform papillae and its downstream target genes, hard keratins, almost disappeared in the tongue tip and was decreased in the dorsal tongue of Bcl11b(-/-) mice. Gene expression analyses demonstrated a delayed onset of expression of epithelial differentiation complex genes, which disturbed barrier formation in the mutant tongue. These results indicate that Bcl11b regulates the differentiation of keratinocytes in the tongue and identify Bcl11b as an essential factor for the lingual papilla morphogenesis.
The transcription factor BCL11B/CTIP2 is a major regulatory protein implicated in various aspects of development, function and survival of T cells. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation and SUMOylation modulate BCL11B transcriptional activity, switching it from a repressor in naive murine thymocytes to a transcriptional activator in activated thymocytes. Here, we show that BCL11B interacts via its conserved N-terminal MSRRKQ motif with endogenous MTA1 and MTA3 proteins to recruit various NuRD complexes. Furthermore, we demonstrate that protein kinase C (PKC)-mediated phosphorylation of BCL11B Ser2 does not significantly impact BCL11B SUMOylation but negatively regulates NuRD recruitment by dampening the interaction with MTA1 or MTA3 (MTA1/3) and RbAp46 proteins. We detected increased phosphorylation of BCL11B Ser2 upon in vivo activation of transformed and primary human CD4(+) T cells. We show that following activation of CD4(+) T cells, BCL11B still binds to IL-2 and Id2 promoters but activates their transcription by recruiting P300 instead of MTA1. Prolonged stimulation results in the direct transcriptional repression of BCL11B by KLF4. Our results unveil Ser2 phosphorylation as a new BCL11B posttranslational modification linking PKC signaling pathway to T-cell receptor (TCR) activation and define a simple model for the functional switch of BCL11B from a transcriptional repressor to an activator during TCR activation of human CD4(+) T cells.
The dentate gyrus is one of the only two brain regions where adult neurogenesis occurs. Throughout life, cells of the neuronal stem cell niche undergo proliferation, differentiation and integration into the hippocampal neural circuitry. Ongoing adult neurogenesis is a prerequisite for the maintenance of adult hippocampal functionality. Bcl11b, a zinc finger transcription factor, is expressed by postmitotic granule cells in the developing as well as adult dentate gyrus. We previously showed a critical role of Bcl11b for hippocampal development. Whether Bcl11b is also required for adult hippocampal functions has not been investigated. Using a tetracycline-dependent inducible mouse model under the control of the forebrain-specific CaMKIIα promoter, we show here that the adult expression of Bcl11b is essential for survival, differentiation and functional integration of adult-born granule cell neurons. In addition, Bcl11b is required for survival of pre-existing mature neurons. Consequently, loss of Bcl11b expression selectively in the adult hippocampus results in impaired spatial working memory. Together, our data uncover for the first time a specific role of Bcl11b in adult hippocampal neurogenesis and function.
Toxicity induced by radiation therapy is a curse for cancer patients undergoing treatment. It is imperative to understand and define an ideal condition where the positive effects notably outweigh the negative. We used a microarray meta-analysis approach to measure global gene-expression before and after radiation exposure. Bioinformatic tools were used for pathways, network, gene ontology and toxicity related studies. We found 429 differentially expressed genes at fold change >2 and p-value <0.05. The most significantly upregulated genes were synuclein alpha (SNCA), carbonic anhydrase I (CA1), X-linked Kx blood group (XK), glycophorin A and B (GYPA and GYPB), and hemogen (HEMGN), while downregulated ones were membrane-spanning 4-domains, subfamily A member 1 (MS4A1), immunoglobulin heavy constant mu (IGHM), chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 7 (CCR7), BTB and CNC homology 1 transcription factor 2 (BACH2), and B-cell CLL/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B). Pathway analysis revealed calcium-induced T lymphocyte apoptosis and the role of nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFAT) in regulation of the immune response as the most inhibited pathways, while apoptosis signaling was significantly activated. Most of the normal biofunctions were significantly decreased while cell death and survival process were activated. Gene ontology enrichment analysis revealed the immune system process as the most overrepresented group under the biological process category. Toxicity function analysis identified liver, kidney and heart to be the most affected organs during and after radiation therapy. The identified biomarkers and alterations in molecular pathways induced by radiation therapy should be further investigated to reduce the cytotoxicity and development of fatigue.
BACKGROUND: Transgelin is an actin-binding protein that promotes motility in normal cells. Although the role of transgelin in cancer is controversial, a number of studies have shown that elevated levels correlate with aggressive tumor behavior, advanced stage, and poor prognosis. Here we sought to determine the role of transgelin more directly by determining whether experimental manipulation of transgelin levels in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells led to changes in metastatic potential in vivo.METHODS: Isogenic CRC cell lines that differ in transgelin expression were characterized using in vitro assays of growth and invasiveness and a mouse tail vein assay of experimental metastasis. Downstream effects of transgelin overexpression were investigated by gene expression profiling and quantitative PCR.RESULTS: Stable overexpression of transgelin in RKO cells, which have low endogenous levels, led to increased invasiveness, growth at low density, and growth in soft agar. Overexpression also led to an increase in the number and size of lung metastases in the mouse tail vein injection model. Similarly, attenuation of transgelin expression in HCT116 cells, which have high endogenous levels, decreased metastases in the same model. Investigation of mRNA expression patterns showed that transgelin overexpression altered the levels of approximately 250 other transcripts, with over-representation of genes that affect function of actin or other cytoskeletal proteins. Changes included increases in HOOK1, SDCCAG8, ENAH/Mena, and TNS1 and decreases in EMB, BCL11B, and PTPRD.CONCLUSIONS: Increases or decreases in transgelin levels have reciprocal effects on tumor cell behavior, with higher expression promoting metastasis. Chronic overexpression influences steady-state levels of mRNAs for metastasis-related genes.
During cortical development, the identity of major classes of long-distance projection neurons is established by the expression of molecular determinants, which become gradually restricted and mutually exclusive. However, the mechanisms by which projection neurons acquire their final properties during postnatal stages are still poorly understood. In this study, we show that the number of neurons co-expressing Ctip2 and Satb2, respectively involved in the early specification of subcerebral and callosal projection neurons, progressively increases after birth in the somatosensory cortex. Ctip2/Satb2 postnatal co-localization defines two distinct neuronal subclasses projecting either to the contralateral cortex or to the brainstem suggesting that Ctip2/Satb2 co-expression may refine their properties rather than determine their identity. Gain- and loss-of-function approaches reveal that the transcriptional adaptor Lmo4 drives this maturation program through modulation of epigenetic mechanisms in a time- and area-specific manner, thereby indicating that a previously unknown genetic program postnatally promotes the acquisition of final subtype-specific features.
T-lymphocyte development branches off from other lymphoid developmental programs through its requirement for sustained environmental signals through the Notch pathway. In the thymus, Notch signaling induces a succession of T-lineage regulatory factors that collectively create the T-cell identity through distinct steps. This process involves both the staged activation of T-cell identity genes and the staged repression of progenitor-cell-inherited regulatory genes once their roles in self-renewal and population expansion are no longer needed. With the recent characterization of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) that share transcriptional regulation programs extensively with T-cell subsets, T-cell identity can increasingly be seen as defined in modular terms, as the processes selecting and actuating effector function are potentially detachable from the processes generating and selecting clonally unique T-cell receptor structures. The developmental pathways of different classes of T cells and ILCs are distinguished by the numbers of prerequisites of gene rearrangement, selection, and antigen contact before the cells gain access to nearly common regulatory mechanisms for choosing effector function. Here, the major classes of transcription factors that interact with Notch signals during T-lineage specification are discussed in terms of their roles in these programs, the evidence for their spectra of target genes at different stages, and their cross-regulatory and cooperative actions with each other. Specific topics include Notch modulation of PU.1 and GATA-3, PU.1-Notch competition, the relationship between PU.1 and GATA-3, and the roles of E proteins, Bcl11b, and GATA-3 in guiding acquisition of T-cell identity while avoiding redirection to an ILC fate.
In the nervous system, BCL11B is crucial for the development of deep layer corticospinal projection neurons and striatal medium spiny neurons and is often used as a marker for the aforementioned cell types. However, the expression of BCL11B in subtypes of non-excitatory neurons in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) has not been reported in the mouse. In this study we show that BCL11B is extensively expressed in S1 GABAergic interneurons, throughout the three main subgroups (somatostatin-, parvalbumin- and 5HT3a-expresssing). Almost all BCL11B positive cells in the upper S1 layers were GABAergic interneurons and surprisingly, almost 40% of the BCL11B positive neurons in layer V were GABAergic interneurons. Single cell mRNA sequencing data revealed higher Bcl11b expression in S1 interneurons compared to deep layer pyramidal neurons. The highest levels of Bcl11b expression were found within the 5HT3a population, specifically in putative neurogliaform interneuron subclasses (5HT3a-positive but not expressing vasoactive intestinal peptide). In the light of our findings we suggest caution using BCL11B as a single marker to identify neurons.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an idiopathic, fatal, neurodegenerative disease of the human motor system. The pathogenesis of ALS is a topic of fascinating speculation and experimentation, with theories revolving around intracellular protein inclusions, mitochondrial structural issues, glutamate excitotoxicity and free radical formation. This review explores the rationale for the involvement of a novel protein, B-cell lymphoma/leukaemia 11b (Bcl11b) in ALS. Bcl11b is a multifunctional zinc finger protein transcription factor. It functions as both a transactivator and genetic suppressor, acting both directly, binding to promoter regions, and indirectly, binding to promoter-bound transcription factors. It has essential roles in the differentiation and growth of various cells in the central nervous system, immune system, integumentary system and cardiovascular system, to the extent that Bcl11b knockout mice are incompatible with extra-uterine life. It also has various roles in pathology including the suppression of latent retroviruses, thymic tumourigenesis and neurodegeneration. In particular its functions in neurodevelopment, viral latency and T-cell development suggest potential roles in ALS pathology.
The brain consists of many distinct neuronal cell types, but which cell types are present in widely used primary cultures of embryonic rodent brain is often not known. We characterized how abundantly four cell type markers (Ctip2, Satb2, Prox1, GAD65) were represented in cultured rat neurons, how easily neurons expressing different markers can be transfected with commonly used plasmids, and whether neuronal-enriched endosomal proteins Nsg-1 (NEEP21) and Nsg-2 (P19) are ubiquitously expressed in all types of cultured neurons. We found that cultured neurons stably maintain cell type identities that are reflective of cell types in vivo. This includes neurons maintaining simultaneous expression of two transcription factors, such as Ctip2+/Satb2+ or Prox1+/Ctip2+ double-positive cells, which have also been described in vivo. Secondly, we established the superior efficiency of CAG promoters for both Lipofectamine-mediated transfection as well as for electroporation. Thirdly, we discovered that Nsg-1 and Nsg-2 were not expressed equally in all neurons: whereas high levels of both Nsg-1 and Nsg-2 were found in Satb2-, Ctip2-, and GAD65-positive neurons, Prox1-positive neurons in hippocampal cultures expressed low levels of both. Our findings thus highlight the importance of identifying neuronal cell types for doing cell biology in cultured neurons: Keeping track of neuronal cell type might uncover effects in assays that might otherwise be masked by the mixture of responsive and non-responsive neurons in the dish.
The transcription factor BCL11B plays essential roles during development of the immune, nervous, and cutaneous systems. Here we show that BCL11B is expressed in both osteogenic and sutural mesenchyme of the developing craniofacial complex. Bcl11b(-/-) mice exhibit increased proliferation of osteoprogenitors, premature osteoblast differentiation, and enhanced skull mineralization leading to synostoses of facial and calvarial sutures. Ectopic expression of Fgfr2c, a gene implicated in craniosynostosis in mice and humans, and that of Runx2 was detected within the affected sutures of Bcl11b(-/-) mice. These data suggest that ectopic expression of Fgfr2c in the sutural mesenchyme, without concomitant changes in the expression of FGF ligands, appears to induce the RUNX2-dependent osteogenic program and craniosynostosis in Bcl11b(-/-) mice.
BACKGROUND: Previous study showed that downregulated BCL11B expression in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cell line Molt-4 inhibited cell proliferation and induce apoptosis, which may be related to PHTF1 gene overexpression. The objective of this study was to investigate the expression of PHTF1 and related genes in ALL and further explore its function in T-ALL cell lines.METHODS: Real-time PCR was used to determine the gene expression level of PHTF1 in hematologic malignancies. The PHTF1, BCL11B, FEM1B and Apaf-1 gene expression levels and correlations were analyzed in patients with primary ALL (including T-ALL and B-ALL) and healthy individuals (HIs). Inhibition and overexpression of PHTF1 by lentiviral transduction were performed using the Molt-4 and Jurkat cell lines. Cell growth and apoptosis were measured by the Cell Counting Kit-8 assay and flow cytometry, respectively. Upon PHTF1 overexpression, the BCL11B, FEM1B and Apaf-1 gene expression levels were determined by real-time PCR.RESULTS: PHTF1 overexpression was found in both T-ALL (p = 0.004) and B-ALL (p < 0.001) groups compared with HIs group. A trend toward a negative correlation between the PHTF1 and BCL11B genes was detected for the T-ALL group, while positively correlated expression was found for the PHTF1 and BCL11B genes in HIs (P = 0.001). FEM1b and Apaf-1 overexpression was found in recently diagnosed ALL patients compared with HIs (p < 0.05). Positively correlated expression was found for the PHTF1, FEM1b and Apaf-1 genes in patients with ALL (p < 0.05) and HIs (p < 0.05). Direct up-regulation of PHTF1 expression inhibited the proliferation of Jurkat and Molt-4 cells and effectively induced apoptosis in Molt-4 cells. Direct inhibition of PHTF1 expression had no significant effect on the proliferation or apoptosis of Jurkat and Molt-4 cells. FEM1b and Apaf-1 overexpression, which did not obviously alter the BCL11B expression level, was detected in PHTF1-transduced T-ALL cell lines.CONCLUSIONS: PHTF1 overexpression is responsible for regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis in T-ALL cell lines. PHTF1 may be a tumor-suppressor like gene and a therapeutic target for triggering the PHTF1-FEM1b-Apaf-1 apoptosis pathway.
Neurons in the cerebral cortex stratify on the basis of their time of origin, axonal terminations and the molecular identities assigned during early development. Olfactory cortices share many feature with the neocortex, including clear lamination and similar cell types. The present study demonstrates that the markers differentially expressed in the projection neurons of the cerebral cortex are also found in olfactory areas. Three of the four regions examined (pars principalis of the anterior olfactory nucleus: AONpP, anterior and posterior piriform cortices: APC, PPC, and the olfactory tubercle) expressed transcription factors found in deep or superficial neurons in the developing neocortex, though large differences were found between areas. For example, while the AONpP, APC and PPC all broadly expressed the deep cortical marker CTIP2, NOR1 (NR4a3) levels were higher in AONpP and DAARP-32 was more prevalent in the APC and PPC. Similar findings were encountered for superficial cortical markers: all three regions broadly expressed CUX1, but CART was only observed in the APC and PPC. Furthermore, regional variations were observed even within single structures (e.g., NOR1 was found primarily in in the dorsal region of AONpP and CART expression was observed in a discrete band in the middle of layer 2 of both the APC and PPC). Experiments using the mitotic marker EDU verified that the olfactory cortices and neocortex share similar patterns of neuronal production: olfactory cells that express markers found in the deep neocortex are produced earlier than those that express superficial makers. Projection neurons were filled by retrograde tracers injected into the olfactory bulb to see if olfactory neurons with deep and superficial markers had different axonal targets. Unlike the cerebral cortex, no specificity was observed: neurons with each of the transcription factors examined were found to be labelled. Together the results indicate that olfactory cortices are complex: they differ from each other and each is formed from a variable mosaic of neurons. The results suggest that the olfactory cortices are not merely a remnant architype of the primordial forebrain but varied and independent regions.
INTRODUCTION: Few high penetrance variants that explain risk in late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) families have been found.METHODS: We performed genome-wide linkage and identity-by-descent (IBD) analyses on 41 non-Hispanic white families exhibiting likely dominant inheritance of LOAD, and having no mutations at known familial Alzheimer's disease (AD) loci, and a low burden of APOE ε4 alleles.RESULTS: Two-point parametric linkage analysis identified 14 significantly linked regions, including three novel linkage regions for LOAD (5q32, 11q12.2-11q14.1, and 14q13.3), one of which replicates a genome-wide association LOAD locus, the MS4A6A-MS4A4E gene cluster at 11q12.2. Five of the 14 regions (3q25.31, 4q34.1, 8q22.3, 11q12.2-14.1, and 19q13.41) are supported by strong multipoint results (logarithm of odds [LOD*] ≥1.5). Nonparametric multipoint analyses produced an additional significant locus at 14q32.2 (LOD* = 4.18). The 1-LOD confidence interval for this region contains one gene, C14orf177, and the microRNA Mir_320, whereas IBD analyses implicates an additional gene BCL11B, a regulator of brain-derived neurotrophic signaling, a pathway associated with pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases.DISCUSSION: Examination of these regions after whole-genome sequencing may identify highly penetrant variants for familial LOAD.
Human ageing affects the immune system resulting in an overall decline in immunocompetence. Although all immune cells are affected during aging, the functional capacity of T cells is most influenced and is linked to decreased responsiveness to infections and impaired differentiation. We studied age-related changes in DNA methylation and gene expression in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from younger and older individuals. We observed marked difference between T cell subsets, with increased number of methylation changes and higher methylome variation in CD8+ T cells with age. The majority of age-related hypermethylated sites were located at CpG islands of silent genes and enriched for repressive histone marks. Specifically, in CD8+ T cell subset we identified strong inverse correlation between methylation and expression levels in genes associated with T cell mediated immune response (LGALS1, IFNG, CCL5, GZMH, CCR7, CD27 and CD248) and differentiation (SATB1, TCF7, BCL11B and RUNX3). Our results thus suggest the link between age-related epigenetic changes and impaired T cell function.
The mature cerebral cortex contains a wide diversity of neuron phenotypes. This diversity is specified during development by neuron-specific expression of key transcription factors, some of which are retained for the life of the animal. One of these key developmental transcription factors that is also retained in the adult is Fezf2, but the neuron types expressing it in the mature cortex are unknown. With a validated Fezf2-Gfp reporter mouse, whole-cell electrophysiology with morphology reconstruction, cluster analysis, in vivo retrograde labeling, and immunohistochemistry, we identify a heterogeneous population of Fezf2(+) neurons in both layer 5A and layer 5B of the mature motor cortex. Functional electrophysiology identified two distinct subtypes of Fezf2(+) neurons that resembled pyramidal tract projection neurons (PT-PNs) and intratelencephalic projection neurons (IT-PNs). Retrograde labeling confirmed the former type to include corticospinal projection neurons (CSpPNs) and corticothalamic projection neurons (CThPNs), whereas the latter type included crossed corticostriatal projection neurons (cCStrPNs) and crossed-corticocortical projection neurons (cCCPNs). The two Fezf2(+) subtypes expressed either CTIP2 or SATB2 to distinguish their physiological identity and confirmed that specific expression combinations of key transcription factors persist in the mature motor cortex. Our findings indicate a wider role for Fezf2 within gene expression networks that underpin the diversity of layer 5 cortical projection neurons.
Comment in    Immunity. 2015 Aug 18;43(2):220-2.
Bcl11b is a transcription factor important for T cell development and also a tumor-suppressor gene that is hemizygously inactivated in ~10% human T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) and several murine T-ALL models, including ATM(-/-) thymic lymphomas. Here we report that heterozygous loss of Bcl11b (Bcl11b(+/-)) unexpectedly reduced lethal thymic lymphoma in ATM(-/-) mice by suppressing lymphoma progression, but not initiation. The suppression was associated with a T cell-mediated immune response in ATM(-/-)Bcl11b(+/-) mice, revealing a haploid insufficient function of Bcl11b in immune modulation against lymphoma and offering an explanation for the complex relationship between Bcl11b status with T-ALL prognosis.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by a glutamine repeat expansion in mutant huntingtin (mHtt). Despite the known genetic cause of HD, the pathophysiology of this disease remains to be elucidated. Inositol polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK) is an enzyme that displays soluble inositol phosphate kinase activity, lipid kinase activity, and various noncatalytic interactions. We report a severe loss of IPMK in the striatum of HD patients and in several cellular and animal models of the disease. This depletion reflects mHtt-induced impairment of COUP-TF-interacting protein 2 (Ctip2), a striatal-enriched transcription factor for IPMK, as well as alterations in IPMK protein stability. IPMK overexpression reverses the metabolic activity deficit in a cell model of HD. IPMK depletion appears to mediate neural dysfunction, because intrastriatal delivery of IPMK abates the progression of motor abnormalities and rescues striatal pathology in transgenic murine models of HD.
RNA-sequencing of a case of acute myeloid leukemia with the bone marrow karyotype 46,XY,t(2;14)(q22;q32)[5]/47,XY,idem,+?4,del(6)(q13q21)[cp6]/46,XY[4] showed that the t(2;14) generated a ZEB2-BCL11B chimera in which exon 2 of ZEB2 (nucleotide 595 in the sequence with accession number NM_014795.3) was fused to exon 2 of BCL11B (nucleotide 554 in the sequence with accession number NM_022898.2). RT-PCR together with Sanger sequencing verified the presence of the above-mentioned fusion transcript. All functional domains of BCL11B are retained in the chimeric protein. Abnormal expression of BCL11B coding regions subjected to control by the ZEB2 promoter seems to be the leukemogenic mechanism behind the translocation.
Transcription factor CTIP2 (chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor-interacting protein 2), also known as BCL11B, is expressed in hair follicles (HFs) of embryonic and adult skin. Ctip2-null mice exhibit reduced HF density during embryonic development. In contrast, conditional inactivation of Ctip2 in the epidermis (Ctip2(ep-/-) mice) leads to a shorter telogen and a premature entry into anagen during the second phase of hair cycling without a detectable change in the number of HFs. Keratinocytes of the bulge stem cells (SCs) niche of Ctip2(ep-/-) mice proliferate more and undergo reduced apoptosis compared with the corresponding cells of wild-type mice. However, premature activation of follicular SCs in mice lacking CTIP2 leads to the exhaustion of this SC compartment in comparison with Ctip2(L2/L2) mice, which retained quiescent follicle SCs. CTIP2 modulates expression of genes encoding EGFR and NOTCH1 during formation of HFs and those encoding nuclear factor of activated T-cells cytoplasmic calcineurin-dependent 1 and LIM homeobox 2 during normal hair cycling in adult skin. The expression of most of these genes is disrupted in mice lacking CTIP2, and these alterations may underlie the phenotype of Ctip2-null and Ctip2(ep-/-) mice. CTIP2 appears to serve as a transcriptional organizer that integrates input from multiple signaling cues during HF morphogenesis and hair cycling.
Monitoring mice exposed to carbon ion radiotherapy provides an indirect method to evaluate the potential for second cancer induction in normal tissues outside the radiotherapy target volume, since such estimates are not yet possible from historical patient data. Here, male and female B6C3F1 mice were given single or fractionated whole-body exposure(s) to a monoenergetic carbon ion radiotherapy beam at the Heavy Ion Medical Accelerator in Chiba, Japan, matching the radiation quality delivered to the normal tissue ahead of the tumour volume (average linear energy transfer = 13 keV x μm(-1)) during patient radiotherapy protocols. The mice were monitored for the remainder of their lifespan, and a large number of T cell lymphomas that arose in these mice were analysed alongside those arising following an equivalent dose of 137Cs gamma ray-irradiation. Using genome-wide DNA copy number analysis to identify genomic loci involved in radiation-induced lymphomagenesis and subsequent detailed analysis of Notch1, Ikzf1, Pten, Trp53 and Bcl11b genes, we compared the genetic profile of the carbon ion- and gamma ray-induced tumours. The canonical set of genes previously associated with radiation-induced T cell lymphoma was identified in both radiation groups. While the pattern of disruption of the various pathways was somewhat different between the radiation types, most notably Pten mutation frequency and loss of heterozygosity flanking Bcl11b, the most striking finding was the observation of large interstitial deletions at various sites across the genome in carbon ion-induced tumours, which were only seen infrequently in the gamma ray-induced tumours analysed. If such large interstitial chromosomal deletions are a characteristic lesion of carbon ion irradiation, even when using the low linear energy transfer radiation to which normal tissues are exposed in radiotherapy patients, understanding the dose-response and tissue specificity of such DNA damage could prove key to assessing second cancer risk in carbon ion radiotherapy patients.
B cell CLL/lymphoma 11B (Bcl11b), a C2H2 zinc finger transcription factor, not only serves as a critical regulator in development but also plays the controversial role in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). We previously found that the enriched expression of Bcl11b was detected in high tumorigenic C6 glioma cells. However, the role of Bcl11b in glioma malignancy and its mechanisms remains to be uncovered. In this study, using the lentivirus-mediated knockdown (KD) approach, we found that Bcl11b KD in tumorigenic C6 cells reduced the cell proliferation, colony formation, and migratory ability. The results were further verified using two human malignant glioma cell lines, U87 and U251 cells. A cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21, a known Bcl11b target, was significantly upregulated in tumorigenic C6, U87, and U251 cells after Bcl11b KD. Cellular senescence was observed by examination of the β-galactosidase activity in U87 and U251 cells with Bcl11b KD. Reduced expression of stemness gene Sox-2 and its downstream effector Bmi-1 was also observed in U87 and U251 cells with Bcl11b KD. These results suggest that the ablation of Bcl11b gene expression induced glioma cell senescence. Propidium iodide (PI) staining combined with flow cytometry analysis also showed that Bcl11b KD led to the cell cycle arrest of U87 and U251 cells at the G0/G1 or at the S phase, indicating that Bcl11b is required for glioma cell cycle progression. Together, this is the first study to show that the inhibition of Bcl11b suppresses glioma cell growth by regulating the expression of the cell cycle regulator p21 and stemness-associated genes (Sox-2/Bmi-1).
Comment on    J Exp Med. 2015 Jun 1;212(6):875-82.    J Exp Med. 2015 Jun 1;212(6):865-74.
Comment in    J Exp Med. 2015 Jun 1;212(6):828.
Comment in    J Exp Med. 2015 Jun 1;212(6):828.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of hippocampus are unknown in humans. To improve our knowledge of molecules that potentially regulate pyramidal neurogenesis and layering in various hippocampal fields, we investigated the expression of progenitor markers and cell fate molecules from gestational week (GW) 9 to GW 20. At GW 9, the progenitor cell compartment of the hippocampal formation mainly consisted of PAX6(+) cells in the ventricular zone. Between GW 9 and 11, a second germinal area, the subventricular zone (SVZ), was formed, as shown by TBR2 labeling. Postmitotic markers (TBR1, CTIP2, SATB2, and CUX1) might reflect the inside-out layering of the plate from GW 11 onwards. TBR1(+) neurons appeared in the deep plate, whereas CTIP2(+), SATB2(+), and CUX1(+) neurons occupied the upper layers. From GW 16, differences in layer segregation were observed between the ammonic and subicular plates. Moreover, an ammonic-to-subicular maturation gradient was observed in germinal/postmitotic areas. Taken together, these findings demonstrate for the first time the presence of an SVZ in the hippocampus of human fetuses and laminar differences in transcription factor expression in the pyramidal layer of the human ammonic and subicular plate, and provide new information to further investigate the connectivity of the hippocampal formation.
Excitatory cortical neurons project to various subcortical and intracortical regions, and exhibit diversity in their axonal connections. Although this diversity may develop from primary axons, how many types of axons initially occur remains unknown. Using a sparse-labeling in utero electroporation method, we investigated the axonal outgrowth of these neurons in mice and correlated the data with axonal projections in adults. Examination of lateral cortex neurons labeled during the main period of cortical neurogenesis (E11.5-E15.5) indicated that axonal outgrowth commonly occurs in the intermediate zone. Conversely, the axonal direction varied; neurons labeled before E12.5 and the earliest cortical plate neurons labeled at E12.5 projected laterally, whereas neurons labeled thereafter projected medially. The expression of Ctip2 and Satb2 and the layer destinations of these neurons support the view that lateral and medial projection neurons are groups of prospective subcortical and callosal projection neurons, respectively. Consistently, birthdating experiments demonstrated that presumptive lateral projection neurons were generated earlier than medial projection neurons, even within the same layer. These results suggest that the divergent axonal connections of excitatory cortical neurons begin from two types of primary axons, which originate from two sequentially generated distinct subpopulations: early-born lateral (subcortical) and later-born medial (callosal) projection neuron groups.
Mouse genetics offers a powerful tool determining the role of specific genes during development. Analyzing the resulting phenotypes by immunohistochemical and molecular methods provides information of potential target genes and signaling pathways. To further elucidate specific regulatory mechanisms requires a system allowing the manipulation of only a small number of cells of a specific tissue by either overexpression, ablation or re-introduction of specific genes and follow their fate during development. To achieve this ex utero electroporation of hippocampal structures, especially the dentate gyrus, followed by organotypic slice culture provides such a tool. Using this system to generate mosaic deletions allows determining whether the gene of interest regulates cell-autonomously developmental processes like progenitor cell proliferation or neuronal differentiation. Furthermore it facilitates the rescue of phenotypes by re-introducing the deleted gene or its target genes. In contrast to in utero electroporation the ex utero approach improves the rate of successfully targeting deeper layers of the brain like the dentate gyrus. Overall ex utero electroporation and organotypic slice culture provide a potent tool to study regulatory mechanisms in a semi-native environment mirroring endogenous conditions.
SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes constitute a highly related family of multi-subunit complexes to modulate transcription, and SWI/SNF subunit genes are collectively mutated in 20% of all human cancers. Bcl11b is a SWI/SNF subunit and acts as a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor in leukemia/lymphomas. Here, we show expression of Bcl11b in intestinal crypt cells and promotion of intestinal tumorigenesis by Bcl11b attenuation in Apc (min/+) mice. Of importance, mutations or allelic loss of BCL11B was detected in one-third of human colon cancers. We also show that attenuated Bcl11b activity in the crypt base columnar (CBC) cells expressing the Lgr5 stem cell marker enhanced regeneration of intestinal epithelial cells after the radiation-induced injury. Interestingly, BCL11B introduction in human cell lines downregulated transcription of β-catenin target genes, whereas Bcl11b attenuation in Lgr5(+) CBCs increased expression of β-catenin targets including c-Myc and cyclin D1. Together, our results argue that Bcl11b impairment promotes tumor development in mouse and human intestine at least in part through deregulation of β-catenin pathway.
The efficient generation of striatal neurons from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) is fundamental for realising their promise in disease modelling, pharmaceutical drug screening and cell therapy for Huntington's disease. GABAergic medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs) are the principal projection neurons of the striatum and specifically degenerate in the early phase of Huntington's disease. Here we report that activin A induces lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) characteristics in nascent neural progenitors derived from hESCs and hiPSCs in a sonic hedgehog-independent manner. Correct specification of striatal phenotype was further demonstrated by the induction of the striatal transcription factors CTIP2, GSX2 and FOXP2. Crucially, these human LGE progenitors readily differentiate into postmitotic neurons expressing the striatal projection neuron signature marker DARPP32, both in culture and following transplantation in the adult striatum in a rat model of Huntington's disease. Activin-induced neurons also exhibit appropriate striatal-like electrophysiology in vitro. Together, our findings demonstrate a novel route for efficient differentiation of GABAergic striatal MSNs from human pluripotent stem cells.
Author information:(1)Department of Orthopedics, Changhai Hospital of Shanghai, Shanghai, China.
The lymphocyte family has expanded significantly in recent years to include not only the adaptive lymphocytes (T cells, B cells) and NK cells, but also several additional innate lymphoid cell (ILC) types. ILCs lack clonally distributed antigen receptors characteristic of adaptive lymphocytes and instead respond exclusively to signaling via germline-encoded receptors. ILCs resemble T cells more closely than any other leukocyte lineage at the transcriptome level and express many elements of the core T cell transcriptional program, including Notch, Gata3, Tcf7, and Bcl11b. We present our current understanding of the shared and distinct transcriptional regulatory mechanisms involved in the development of adaptive T lymphocytes and closely related ILCs. We discuss the possibility that a core set of transcriptional regulators common to ILCs and T cells establish enhancers that enable implementation of closely aligned effector pathways. Studies of the transcriptional regulation of lymphopoiesis will support the development of novel therapeutic approaches to correct early lymphoid developmental defects and aberrant lymphocyte function.
BACKGROUND: Kruppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) induces tumorigenesis or suppresses tumor growth in a tissue-dependent manner. However, the roles of KLF4 in hematological malignancies and the mechanisms of action are not fully understood.METHODS: Inducible KLF4-overexpression Jurkat cell line combined with mouse models bearing cell-derived xenografts and primary T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells from four patients were used to assess the functional role of KLF4 in T-ALL cells in vitro and in vivo. A genome-wide RNA-seq analysis was conducted to identify genes regulated by KLF4 in T-ALL cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) PCR was used to determine direct binding sites of KLF4 in T-ALL cells.RESULTS: Here we reveal that KLF4 induced apoptosis through the BCL2/BCLXL pathway in human T-ALL cell lines and primary T-ALL specimens. In consistence, mice engrafted with KLF4-overexpressing T-ALL cells exhibited prolonged survival. Interestingly, the KLF4-induced apoptosis in T-ALL cells was compromised in xenografts but the invasion capacity of KLF4-expressing T-ALL cells to hosts was dramatically dampened. We found that KLF4 overexpression inhibited T cell-associated genes including NOTCH1, BCL11B, GATA3, and TCF7. Further mechanistic studies revealed that KLF4 directly bound to the promoters of NOTCH1, BCL2, and CXCR4 and suppressed their expression. Additionally, KLF4 induced SUMOylation and degradation of BCL11B.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that KLF4 as a major transcription factor that suppresses the expression of T-cell associated genes, thus inhibiting T-ALL progression.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the etiological agent of adult T cell leukemia (ATL), which is an aggressive form of T-cell malignancy. HTLV-1 oncoproteins, Tax and HBZ, play crucial roles in the immortalization of T-cells and/or leukemogenesis by dysregulating the cellular functions in the host. Recent studies show that HTLV-1-infected T-cells have reduced expression of the BCL11B tumor suppressor protein. In the present study, we explored whether Tax and/or HBZ play a role in downregulating BCL11B in HTLV-1-infected T-cells. Lentiviral transduction of Tax in a human T-cell line repressed the expression of BCL11B at both the protein and mRNA levels, whereas the transduction of HBZ had little effect on the expression. Tax mutants with a decreased activity for the NF-κB, CREB or PDZ protein pathways still showed a reduced expression of the BCL11B protein, thereby implicating a different function of Tax in BCL11B downregulation. In addition, the HTLV-2 Tax2 protein reduced the BCL11B protein expression in T-cells. Seven HTLV-1-infected T-cell lines, including three ATL-derived cell lines, showed reduced BCL11B mRNA and protein expression relative to an uninfected T-cell line, and the greatest reductions were in the cells expressing Tax. Collectively, these results indicate that Tax is responsible for suppressing BCL11B protein expression in HTLV-1-infected T-cells; Tax-mediated repression of BCL11B is another mechanism that Tax uses to promote oncogenesis of HTLV-1-infected T-cells.
Novel target discovery is warranted to improve treatment in adult T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) patients. We provide a comprehensive study on mutations to enhance the understanding of therapeutic targets and studied 81 adult T-ALL patients. NOTCH1 exhibitedthe highest mutation rate (53%). Mutation frequencies of FBXW7 (10%), WT1 (10%), JAK3 (12%), PHF6 (11%), and BCL11B (10%) were in line with previous reports. We identified recurrent alterations in transcription factors DNM2, and RELN, the WNT pathway associated cadherin FAT1, and in epigenetic regulators (MLL2, EZH2). Interestingly, we discovered novel recurrent mutations in the DNA repair complex member HERC1, in NOTCH2, and in the splicing factor ZRSR2. A frequently affected pathway was the JAK/STAT pathway (18%) and a significant proportion of T-ALL patients harboured mutations in epigenetic regulators (33%), both predominantly found in the unfavourable subgroup of early T-ALL. Importantly, adult T-ALL patients not only showed a highly heterogeneous mutational spectrum, but also variable subclonal allele frequencies implicated in therapy resistance and evolution of relapse. In conclusion, we provide novel insights in genetic alterations of signalling pathways (e.g. druggable by γ-secretase inhibitors, JAK inhibitors or EZH2 inhibitors), present in over 80% of all adult T-ALL patients, that could guide novel therapeutic approaches.
Erratum in    Neuron. 2016 Jan 6;89(1):235.
Comment in    J Leukoc Biol. 2015 Apr;97(4):623-5.
Sutures, where neighboring craniofacial bones are separated by undifferentiated mesenchyme, are major growth sites during craniofacial development. Pathologic fusion of bones within sutures occurs in a wide variety of craniosynostosis conditions and can result in dysmorphic craniofacial growth and secondary neurologic deficits. Our knowledge of the genes involved in suture formation is poor. Here we describe the novel expression pattern of the BCL11B transcription factor protein during murine embryonic craniofacial bone formation. We examined BCL11B protein expression at E14.5, E16.5, and E18.5 in 14 major craniofacial sutures of C57BL/6J mice. We found BCL11B expression to be associated with all intramembranous craniofacial bones examined. The most striking aspects of BCL11B expression were its high levels in suture mesenchyme and increasingly complementary expression with RUNX2 in differentiating osteoblasts during development. BCL11B was also expressed in mesenchyme at the non-sutural edges of intramembranous bones. No expression was seen in osteoblasts involved in endochondral ossification of the cartilaginous cranial base. BCL11B is expressed to potentially regulate the transition of mesenchymal differentiation and suture formation within craniofacial intramembranous bone.
ATM is the master regulator of the cellular response to DNA double strand breaks (DSBs). Deficiency of ATM predisposes humans and mice to αβ T lymphoid cancers with clonal translocations between the T cell receptor (TCR) α/δ locus and a 450 kb region of synteny on human chromosome 14 and mouse chromosome 12. While these translocations target and activate the TCL1 oncogene at 14q32 to cause T cell pro-lymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL), the TCRα/δ;14q32 translocations in ATM-deficient T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) have not been characterized and their role in cancer pathogenesis remains unknown. The corresponding lesion in Atm-deficient mouse T-ALLs is a chromosome t(12;14) translocation with Tcrδ genes fused to sequences on chromosome 12; although these translocations do not activate Tcl1, they delete the Bcl11b haploinsufficient tumor suppressor gene. To assess whether Tcrδ translocations that inactivate one copy of Bcl11b promote transformation of Atm-deficient cells, we analyzed Atm(-/-) mice with mono-allelic Bcl11b deletion initiating in thymocytes concomitant with Tcrδ recombination. Inactivation of one Bcl11b copy had no effect on the predisposition of Atm(-/-) mice to clonal T-ALLs. Yet, none of these T-ALLs had a clonal chromosome t(12;14) translocation that deleted Bcl11b indicating that Tcrδ translocations that inactivate a copy of Bcl11b promote transformation of Atm-deficient thymocytes. Our data demonstrate that antigen receptor locus translocations can cause cancer by deleting a tumor suppressor gene. We discuss the implications of these findings for the etiology and therapy of T-ALLs associated with ATM deficiency and TCRα/δ translocations targeting the 14q32 cytogenetic region.
Transcription factors with multiple post-translational modifications (PTMs) are not uncommon, but comprehensive information on site-specific dynamics and interdependence is comparatively rare. Assessing dynamic changes in the extent of PTMs has the potential to link multiple sites both to each other and to biological effects observable on the same time scale. The transcription factor and tumor suppressor BCL11B is critical to three checkpoints in T-cell development and is a target of a T-cell receptor-mediated MAP kinase signaling. Multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mass spectroscopy was used to assess changes in relative phosphorylation on 18 of 23 serine and threonine residues and sumoylation on one of two lysine resides in BCL11B. We have resolved the composite phosphorylation-dephosphorylation and sumoylation changes of BCL11B in response to MAP kinase activation into a complex pattern of site-specific PTM changes in primary mouse thymocytes. The site-specific resolution afforded by MRM analyses revealed four kinetic patterns of phosphorylation and one of sumoylation, including both rapid simultaneous site-specific increases and decreases at putative MAP kinase proline-directed phosphorylation sites, following stimulation. These data additionally revealed a novel spatiotemporal bisphosphorylation motif consisting of two kinetically divergent proline-directed phosphorylation sites spaced five residues apart.
If Bcl11b activity is compromised, CD4(+)CD8(+) double-positive (DP) thymocytes produce a greatly increased fraction of innate CD8(+) single-positive (SP) cells highly producing IFN-γ, which are also increased in mice deficient of genes such as Itk, Id3 and NF-κB1 that affect TCR signaling. Of interest, the increase in the former two is due to the bystander effect of IL-4 that is secreted by promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger-expressing NKT and γδT cells whereas the increase in the latter is cell intrinsic. Bcl11b zinc-finger proteins play key roles in T cell development and T cell-mediated immune response likely through TCR signaling. We examined thymocytes at and after the DP stage in Bcl11b (F/S826G) CD4cre, Bcl11b (F/+) CD4cre and Bcl11b (+/S826G) mice, carrying the allele that substituted serine for glycine at the position of 826. Here we show that Bcl11b impairment leads to an increase in the population of TCRαβ(high)CD44(high)CD122(high) innate CD8SP thymocytes, together with two different developmental abnormalities: impaired positive and negative selection accompanying a reduction in the number of CD8SP cells, and developmental arrest of NKT cells at multiple steps. The innate CD8SP thymocytes express Eomes and secrete IFN-γ after stimulation with PMA and ionomycin, and in this case their increase is not due to a bystander effect of IL-4 but cell intrinsic. Those results indicate that Bcl11b regulates development of different thymocyte subsets at multiple stages and prevents an excess of innate CD8SP thymocytes.
The promise of using reprogrammed human neurons for disease modeling and regenerative medicine relies on the ability to induce patient-derived neurons with high efficiency and subtype specificity. We have previously shown that ectopic expression of brain-enriched microRNAs (miRNAs), miR-9/9* and miR-124 (miR-9/9*-124), promoted direct conversion of human fibroblasts into neurons. Here we show that coexpression of miR-9/9*-124 with transcription factors enriched in the developing striatum, BCL11B (also known as CTIP2), DLX1, DLX2, and MYT1L, can guide the conversion of human postnatal and adult fibroblasts into an enriched population of neurons analogous to striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs). When transplanted in the mouse brain, the reprogrammed human cells persisted in situ for over 6 months, exhibited membrane properties equivalent to native MSNs, and extended projections to the anatomical targets of MSNs. These findings highlight the potential of exploiting the synergism between miR-9/9*-124 and transcription factors to generate specific neuronal subtypes.
SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes are frequently mutated in a variety of human cancers. We investigated the mutation incidence and the role of mSWI/SNF (BAF) complexes in human lung cancer. In the present study, we analyzed somatic mutations of BAF complexes and other driver mutated genes of lung carcinoma deposited in the Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer (COSMIC) database. BAF complexes were mutated in 282 of 803 (35.12%) lung carcinoma samples analyzed, ranking second to TP53. Significantly, BAF-mutated samples exhibited more genomic mutations than BAF wild-type ones. Moreover, a significant positive correlation existed between the BAF mutations and overall genomic mutations in these lung carcinoma samples (P<0.001, Pearson's correlation analysis). Specifically, the mutant-typing of 6 BAF genes, SMARCA4, ARID2, ARID1B, BCL11A, BCL11B and BRD9 was associated with more overall mutations in the lung carcinoma samples. A mutation reporter system was developed by means of the establishment of stable cell sublines with slippage-luciferase transcript in a lung adenocarcinoma cell line, Calu-3. SMARCA4, the most frequently mutated BAF gene in lung cancer, was stably knocked down by pSUPER constructs carrying short hairpin RNA (shRNA). Mutation ratios determined from the mutation reporters of Calu-3 cells were significantly increased upon stable SMARCA4 knockdown. We demonstrated that genetic mutations of BAF complexes lead to genome instability of lung carcinoma. Therefore, BAF complexes play an important role in maintaining genome stability in human lung cancer.
In the developing neocortex, neural precursor cells (NPCs) sequentially generate various neuronal subtypes in a defined order. Although the precise timing of the NPC fate switches is essential for determining the number of neurons of each subtype and for precisely generating the cortical layer structure, the molecular mechanisms underlying these switches are largely unknown. Here, we show that epigenetic regulation through Ring1B, an essential component of polycomb group (PcG) complex proteins, plays a key role in terminating NPC-mediated production of subcerebral projection neurons (SCPNs). The level of histone H3 residue K27 trimethylation at and Ring1B binding to the promoter of Fezf2, a fate determinant of SCPNs, increased in NPCs as Fezf2 expression decreased. Moreover, deletion of Ring1B in NPCs, but not in postmitotic neurons, prolonged the expression of Fezf2 and the generation of SCPNs that were positive for CTIP2. These results indicate that Ring1B mediates the timed termination of Fezf2 expression and thereby regulates the number of SCPNs.
Author information:(1)Institut de parasitologie et de pathologie tropicale, EA7292, université de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France - IUT de Schiltigheim, 1 allée d'Athènes, Schiltigheim, France.(2)Laboratory of protein -interactions and signaling, -université de Liège, Liège, Belgique.(3)Institut de parasitologie et de pathologie tropicale, EA7292, université de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France.(4)Institut de parasitologie et de pathologie tropicale, EA7292, université de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France - IUT de Schiltigheim, 1 allée d'Athènes, Schiltigheim, France - Institut universitaire de France, 103, boulevard Saint-Michel, 75005 Paris, France.
GATA-3 expression is crucial for T cell development and peaks during commitment to the T cell lineage, midway through the CD4(-)CD8(-) (double-negative [DN]) stages 1-3. We used RNA interference and conditional deletion to reduce GATA-3 protein acutely at specific points during T cell differentiation in vitro. Even moderate GATA-3 reduction killed DN1 cells, delayed progression to the DN2 stage, skewed DN2 gene regulation, and blocked appearance of the DN3 phenotype. Although a Bcl-2 transgene rescued DN1 survival and improved DN2 cell generation, it did not restore DN3 differentiation. Gene expression analyses (quantitative PCR, RNA sequencing) showed that GATA-3-deficient DN2 cells quickly upregulated genes, including Spi1 (PU.1) and Bcl11a, and downregulated genes, including Cpa3, Ets1, Zfpm1, Bcl11b, Il9r, and Il17rb with gene-specific kinetics and dose dependencies. These targets could mediate two distinct roles played by GATA-3 in lineage commitment, as revealed by removing wild-type or GATA-3-deficient early T lineage cells from environmental Notch signals. GATA-3 worked as a potent repressor of B cell potential even at low expression levels, so that only full deletion of GATA-3 enabled pro-T cells to reveal B cell potential. The ability of GATA-3 to block B cell development did not require T lineage commitment factor Bcl11b. In prethymic multipotent precursors, however, titration of GATA-3 activity using tamoxifen-inducible GATA-3 showed that GATA-3 inhibits B and myeloid developmental alternatives at different threshold doses. Furthermore, differential impacts of a GATA-3 obligate repressor construct imply that B and myeloid development are inhibited through distinct transcriptional mechanisms. Thus, the pattern of GATA-3 expression sequentially produces B lineage exclusion, T lineage progression, and myeloid-lineage exclusion for commitment.
The transcription factor Bcl11b is expressed in all T cell subsets and progenitors, starting from the DN2 stage of T cell development, and it regulates critical processes implicated in the development, function, and survival of many of these cells. Among the common roles of Bcl11b in T cell progenitors and mature T cell subsets are the repression of the innate genetic program and, to some extent, expression maintenance of TCR-signaling components. However, Bcl11b also has unique roles in specific T cell populations, suggesting that its functions depend on cell type and activation state of the cell. In this article, we provide a comprehensive review of the roles of Bcl11b in progenitors, effector T cells, regulatory T cells, and invariant NKT cells, as well as its impact on immune diseases. While emphasizing common themes, including some that might be extended to skin and neurons, we also describe the control of specific functions in different T cell subsets.
Radial glial cells (RGCs) in the ventricular neuroepithelium of the dorsal telencephalon are the progenitor cells for neocortical projection neurons and astrocytes. Here we show that the adherens junction proteins afadin and CDH2 are critical for the control of cell proliferation in the dorsal telencephalon and for the formation of its normal laminar structure. Inactivation of afadin or CDH2 in the dorsal telencephalon leads to a phenotype resembling subcortical band heterotopia, also known as "double cortex," a brain malformation in which heterotopic gray matter is interposed between zones of white matter. Adherens junctions between RGCs are disrupted in the mutants, progenitor cells are widely dispersed throughout the developing neocortex, and their proliferation is dramatically increased. Major subtypes of neocortical projection neurons are generated, but their integration into cell layers is disrupted. Our findings suggest that defects in adherens junctions components in mice massively affects progenitor cell proliferation and leads to a double cortex-like phenotype.
BACKGROUND: Risk stratification, detection of minimal residual disease (MRD), and implementation of novel therapeutic agents have improved outcome in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but survival of adult patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) remains unsatisfactory. Thus, novel molecular insights and therapeutic approaches are urgently needed.METHODS: We studied the impact of B-cell CLL/lymphoma 11b (BCL11b), a key regulator in normal T-cell development, in T-ALL patients enrolled into the German Multicenter Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Study Group trials (GMALL; n = 169). The mutational status (exon 4) of BCL11b was analyzed by Sanger sequencing and mRNA expression levels were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. In addition gene expression profiles generated on the Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0 Array (affymetrix) were used to investigate BCL11b low and high expressing T-ALL patients.RESULTS: We demonstrate that BCL11b is aberrantly expressed in T-ALL and gene expression profiles reveal an association of low BCL11b expression with up-regulation of immature markers. T-ALL patients characterized by low BCL11b expression exhibit an adverse prognosis [5-year overall survival (OS): low 35% (n = 40) vs. high 53% (n = 129), P = 0.02]. Within the standard risk group of thymic T-ALL (n = 102), low BCL11b expression identified patients with an unexpected poor outcome compared to those with high expression (5-year OS: 20%, n = 18 versus 62%, n = 84, P < 0.01). In addition, sequencing of exon 4 revealed a high mutation rate (14%) of BCL11b.CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our data of a large adult T-ALL patient cohort show that low BCL11b expression was associated with poor prognosis; particularly in the standard risk group of thymic T-ALL. These findings can be utilized for improved risk prediction in a significant proportion of adult T-ALL patients, which carry a high risk of standard therapy failure despite a favorable immunophenotype.
The function of mature neurons critically relies on the developmental outgrowth and projection of their cellular processes. It has long been postulated that the neuronal glycoproteins M6a and M6b are involved in axon growth because these four-transmembrane domain-proteins of the proteolipid protein family are highly enriched on growth cones, but in vivo evidence has been lacking. Here, we report that the function of M6 proteins is required for normal axonal extension and guidance in vivo. In mice lacking both M6a and M6b, a severe hypoplasia of axon tracts was manifested. Most strikingly, the corpus callosum was reduced in thickness despite normal densities of cortical projection neurons. In single neuron tracing, many axons appeared shorter and disorganized in the double-mutant cortex, and some of them were even misdirected laterally toward the subcortex. Probst bundles were not observed. Upon culturing, double-mutant cortical and cerebellar neurons displayed impaired neurite outgrowth, indicating a cell-intrinsic function of M6 proteins. A rescue experiment showed that the intracellular loop of M6a is essential for the support of neurite extension. We propose that M6 proteins are required for proper extension and guidance of callosal axons that follow one of the most complex trajectories in the mammalian nervous system.
There are two main subgroups of midbrain dopaminergic (DA) neurons: the more medially located ventral tegmental area (VTA) DA neurons, which have axons that innervate the ventral-lateral (VL) striatum, and the more laterally located substantia nigra (SN) DA neurons, which preferentially degenerate in Parkinson's disease (PD) and have axons that project to the dorsal-medial (DM) striatum. DA axonal projections in the striatum are not discretely localized and they arborize widely, however they do not stray from one zone to the other so that VTA axons remain in the VL zone and SN axons in the DM zone. Here we provide evidence that Netrin-1 acts in a novel fashion to topographically pattern midbrain DA axons into these two striatal zones by means of a gradient of Netrin-1 in the striatum and by differential attraction of the axons to Netrin-1. Midbrain DA neurons are attracted to the striatum in culture and this attraction is blocked by an anti-DCC (Netrin receptor) antibody. Mechanistically, outgrowth of both VTA and SN DA axons is stimulated by Netrin-1, but the two populations of DA axons respond optimally to overlapping but distinct concentrations of Netrin-1, with SN axons preferring lower concentrations and VTA axons preferring higher concentrations. In vivo this differential preference is closely mirrored by differences in Netrin-1 expression in their respective striatal target fields. In vivo in mice lacking Netrin-1, DA axons that reach the striatum fail to segregate into two terminal zones and to fully innervate the striatum. Our results reveal novel actions for Netrin-1 and provide evidence for a mechanism through which DA axons can selectively innervate one of two terminal zones in the striatum but have free reign to arborize widely within a terminal zone.
BACKGROUND: We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) to identify specific genetic variants that underlie susceptibility to diseases caused by Staphylococcus aureus in humans.METHODS: Cases (n = 309) and controls (n = 2925) were genotyped at 508,921 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Cases had at least one laboratory and clinician confirmed disease caused by S. aureus whereas controls did not. R-package (for SNP association), EIGENSOFT (to estimate and adjust for population stratification) and gene- (VEGAS) and pathway-based (DAVID, PANTHER, and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis) analyses were performed.RESULTS: No SNP reached genome-wide significance. Four SNPs exceeded the p < 10(-5) threshold including two (rs2455012 and rs7152530) reaching a p-value < 10(-7). The nearby genes were PDE4B (rs2455012), TXNRD2 (rs3804047), VRK1 and BCL11B (rs7152530), and PNPLA5 (rs470093). The top two findings from the gene-based analysis were NMRK2 (p gene = 1.20E-05), which codes an integrin binding molecule (focal adhesion), and DAPK3 (p gene = 5.10E-05), a serine/threonine kinase (apoptosis and cytokinesis). The pathway analyses identified epithelial cell responses to mechanical and non-mechanical stress.CONCLUSION: We identified potential susceptibility genes for S. aureus diseases in this preliminary study but confirmation by other studies is needed. The observed associations could be relevant given the complexity of S. aureus as a pathogen and its ability to exploit multiple biological pathways to cause infections in humans.
Studies of transcriptional mechanisms in heart failure have focused heavily on roles of sequence-specific DNA-binding factors such as NFAT, MEF2 and GATA4. Recent findings have illuminated crucial functions for epigenetic regulators in the control of cardiac structural remodeling and mechanical dysfunction in response to pathological stress. Here, we review the current understanding of chromatin-dependent signal transduction in cardiac gene control, and highlight the potential for pharmacologic regulation of BET acetyl-lysine binding proteins as a means of treating heart failure.
Lesch-Nyhan Syndrome (LNS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding the purine metabolic enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT). This syndrome is characterized by an array of severe neurological impairments that in part originate from striatal dysfunctions. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying these dysfunctions remain largely unidentified. In this report, we demonstrate that HPRT-deficiency causes dysregulated expression of key genes essential for striatal patterning, most notably the striatally-enriched transcription factor B-cell leukemia 11b (Bcl11b). The data also reveal that the down-regulated expression of Bcl11b in HPRT-deficient immortalized mouse striatal (STHdh) neural stem cells is accompanied by aberrant expression of some of its transcriptional partners and other striatally-enriched genes, including the gene encoding dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein 32, (DARPP-32). Furthermore, we demonstrate that components of the BDNF/TrkB signaling, a known activator of DARPP-32 striatal expression and effector of Bcl11b transcriptional activation are markedly increased in HPRT-deficient cells and in the striatum of HPRT knockout mouse. Consequently, the HPRT-deficient cells display superior protection against reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated cell death upon exposure to hydrogen peroxide. These findings suggest that the purine metabolic defect caused by HPRT-deficiency, while it may provide neuroprotection to striatal neurons, affects key genes and signaling pathways that may underlie the neuropathogenesis of LNS.
Establishment of the corpus callosum involves coordination between callosal projection neurons and multiple midline structures, including the glial wedge (GW) rostrally and hippocampal commissure caudally. GW defects have been associated with agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC). Here we show that conditional Lhx2 inactivation in cortical radial glia using Emx1-Cre or Nestin-Cre drivers results in ACC. The ACC phenotype was characterized by aberrant ventrally projecting callosal axons rather than Probst bundles, and was 100% penetrant on 2 different mouse strain backgrounds. Lhx2 inactivation in postmitotic cortical neurons using Nex-Cre mice did not result in ACC, suggesting that the mutant phenotype was not autonomous to the callosal projection neurons. Instead, ACC was associated with an absent hippocampal commissure and a markedly reduced to absent GW. Expression studies demonstrated strong Lhx2 expression in the normal GW and in its radial glial progenitors, with absence of Lhx2 resulting in normal Emx1 and Sox2 expression, but premature exit from the cell cycle based on EdU-Ki67 double labeling. These studies define essential roles for Lhx2 in GW, hippocampal commissure, and corpus callosum formation, and suggest that defects in radial GW progenitors can give rise to ACC.
The hippocampal formation (HF) is a unique structure in the mammalian brain and is subdivided into the dentate gyrus, Ammon's horn, and subiculum by their functions and connectivity in the neuronal circuit. Because behaviors of the neural stem cells, neuronal progenitors, and the differentiating neurons are complex during hippocampal morphogenesis, the differentiation of these subdivisions has not been well understood. In this study, we investigated embryonic and postnatal expression of the proteins Prox1, Math2, and Ctip2, which clearly indicate principal cells of the dentate gyrus (Prox1 positive) and Ammon's horn (Math2 and Ctip2 positive). Expression patterns of Prox1 and Math2 were consistent with previously suggested localization of migratory pathways of the dentate granule cells and hippocampal pyramidal cells. Interestingly, we found intermingling of Prox1-expressing cells and Math2-expressing cells in a cell migratory stream, suggesting previously unknown behaviors of differentiating cells of the HF.
Tooth development relies on the interaction between the oral ectoderm and underlying mesenchyme, and is regulated by a complex genetic cascade. This transcriptional cascade is regulated by the spatiotemporal activation and deactivation of transcription factors. The specificity proteins 6 (Sp6) and chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor-interacting protein 2 (Ctip2) were identified in loss-of-function studies as key transcription factors required for tooth development. Ctip2 binds to the Sp6 promoter in vivo; however, its role in Sp6 expression remains unclear. In this study, we investigated Sp6 transcriptional regulation by Ctip2. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Sp6 and Ctip2 colocalize in the rat incisor during tooth development. We examined whether Ctip2 regulates Sp6 promoter activity in dental epithelial cells. Cotransfection experiments using serial Sp6 promoter-luciferase constructs and Ctip2 expression plasmids showed that Ctip2 significantly suppressed the Sp6 second promoter activity, although the Sp6 first promoter activity was unaffected. Ctip2 was able to bind to the proximal region of the Sp6 first promoter, as previously demonstrated, and also to the novel distal region of the first, and second promoter regions. Our findings indicate that Ctip2 regulates Sp6 gene expression through direct binding to the Sp6 second promoter region. J. Med. Invest. 61: 126-136, February, 2014.
Early T cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ETP-ALL) exhibits lymphoid, myeloid, and stem cell features and is associated with a poor prognosis. Whole genome sequencing of human ETP-ALL cases has identified recurrent mutations in signaling, histone modification, and hematopoietic development genes but it remains to be determined which of these abnormalities are sufficient to initiate leukemia. We show that activating mutations in the interleukin-7 receptor identified in human pediatric ETP-ALL cases are sufficient to generate ETP-ALL in mice transplanted with primitive transduced thymocytes from p19(Arf-/-) mice. The cellular mechanism by which these mutant receptors induce ETP-ALL is the block of thymocyte differentiation at the double negative 2 stage at which myeloid lineage and T lymphocyte developmental potential coexist. Analyses of samples from pediatric ETP-ALL cases and our murine ETP-ALL model show uniformly high levels of LMO2 expression, very low to undetectable levels of BCL11B expression, and a relative lack of activating NOTCH1 mutations. We report that pharmacological blockade of Jak-Stat signaling with ruxolitinib has significant antileukemic activity in this ETP-ALL model. This new murine model recapitulates several important cellular and molecular features of ETP-ALL and should be useful to further define novel therapeutic approaches for this aggressive leukemia.
Active positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) is essential for cellular and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) transcription elongation. CTIP2 represses P-TEFb activity in a complex containing 7SK RNA and HEXIM1. Recently, the inactive 7SK/P-TEFb small nuclear RNP (snRNP) has been detected at the HIV-1 core promoter as well as at the promoters of cellular genes, but a recruiting mechanism still remains unknown to date. Here we show global synergy between CTIP2 and the 7SK-binding chromatin master-regulator HMGA1 in terms of P-TEFb-dependent endogenous and HIV-1 gene expression regulation. While CTIP2 and HMGA1 concordingly repress the expression of cellular 7SK-dependent P-TEFb targets, the simultaneous knock-down of CTIP2 and HMGA1 also results in a boost in Tat-dependent and independent HIV-1 promoter activity. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments reveal a significant loss of CTIP2/7SK/P-TEFb snRNP recruitment to cellular gene promoters and the HIV-1 promoter on HMGA1 knock-down. Our findings not only provide insights into a recruiting mechanism for the inactive 7SK/P-TEFb snRNP, but may also contribute to a better understanding of viral latency.
Illegitimate V(D)J recombination at oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes is implicated in formation of several T cell malignancies. Notch1 and Bcl11b, genes involved in developing T cell specification, selection, proliferation, and survival, were previously shown to contain hotspots for deletional illegitimate V(D)J recombination associated with radiation-induced thymic lymphoma. Interestingly, these deletions were also observed in wild-type animals. In this study, we conducted frequency, clonality, and junctional processing analyses of Notch1 and Bcl11b deletions during mouse development and compared results to published analyses of authentic V(D)J rearrangements at the T cell receptor beta (TCRβ) locus and illegitimate V(D)J deletions observed at the human, nonimmune HPRT1 locus not involved in T cell malignancies. We detect deletions in Notch1 and Bcl11b in thymic and splenic T cell populations, consistent with cells bearing deletions in the circulating lymphocyte pool. Deletions in thymus can occur in utero, increase in frequency between fetal and postnatal stages, are detected at all ages examined between fetal and 7 months, exhibit only limited clonality (contrasting with previous results in radiation-sensitive mouse strains), and consistent with previous reports are more frequent in Bcl11b, partially explained by relatively high Recombination Signal Information Content (RIC) scores. Deletion junctions in Bcl11b exhibit greater germline nucleotide loss, while in Notch1 palindromic (P) nucleotides are more abundant, although average P nucleotide length is similar for both genes and consistent with results at the TCRβ locus. Non-templated (N) nucleotide insertions appear to increase between fetal and postnatal stages for Notch1, consistent with normal terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) activity; however, neonatal Bcl11b junctions contain elevated levels of N insertions. Finally, contrasting with results at the HPRT1 locus, we find no obvious age or gender bias in junctional processing, and inverted repeats at recessed coding ends (Pr nucleotides) correspond mostly to single-base additions consistent with normal TdT activity.
Fusion genes are frequently observed in hematologic malignancies and soft tissue sarcomas, and are usually associated with chromosome abnormalities. Many of these fusion genes create in-frame fusion transcripts that result in the production of fusion proteins, and some of which aid tumorigenesis. These fusion proteins are often associated with disease phenotype and clinical outcome, and act as markers for minimal residual disease and indicators of therapeutic targets. Here, we identified the 28S ribosomal DNA (RN28S1) gene as a novel fusion partner of the B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B gene (BCL11B), the immunoglobulin κ variable 3-20 gene (IGKV3-20) and the component of oligomeric Golgi complex 1 gene (COG1) in hematologic malignancies. The RN28S1-BCL11B fusion transcript was identified in a case with mixed-lineage (T/myeloid) acute leukemia having t(6;14)(q25;q32) by cDNA bubble PCR using BCL11B primers; however, the gene fused to BCL11B on 14q32 was not on 6q25. IGKV3-20-RN28S1 and COG1-RN28S1 fusion transcripts were identified in the Burkitt lymphoma cell line HBL-5, and the multiple myeloma cell line KMS-18. RN28S1 would not translate, and the breakpoints in partner genes of RN28S1 were within the coding exons, suggesting that disruption of fusion partners by fusion to RN28S1 is the possible mechanism of tumorigenesis. Although further analysis is needed to elucidate the mechanism(s) through which these RN28S1-related fusions play roles in tumorigenesis, our findings provide important insights into the role of rDNA function in human genomic architecture and tumorigenesis.
γδ T cells develop at the double-negative (DN) 2 and DN3 stages and acquire functions to produce IL-17 and IFN-γ in fetal thymus. However, the relationship between differentiation stages and their functions was unclear. In this study, we found that, although IFN-γ-producing and IL-17-producing γδ T cells developed from DN2 cells, only IFN-γ-producing γδ T cells developed from DN3 cells, indicating the direct generation of IL-17-producing γδ T cells from the DN2 stage, not through the DN3 stage. Single-cell analysis revealed that DN2 cells contained heterogeneous γδ T cell precursors with or without an ability to develop IL-17 producers. Inactivation of B cell leukemia/lymphoma 11b, a zinc finger transcription factor responsible for transition from early to late stages of DN2 cells, completely abrogated the development of IL-17-producing γδ T cells, although a unique subset of IFN-γ-producing γδ T cells expressing a high level of promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger was able to develop. Thus, our results reveal that γδ T cells are functionally differentiated to IFN-γ and IL-17 producers at different developmental stages in fetal thymus.
Using several tumor models, we demonstrate that mice deficient in Bcl11b in T cells, although having reduced numbers of T cells in the peripheral lymphoid organs, developed significantly less tumors compared with wild-type mice. Bcl11b(-/-) CD4(+) T cells, with elevated TNF-α levels, but not the Bcl11b(-/-) CD8(+) T cells, were required for the reduced tumor burden, as were NK1.1(+) cells, found in increased numbers in Bcl11b(F/F)/CD4-Cre mice. Among NK1.1(+) cells, the NK cell population was predominant in number and was the only population displaying elevated granzyme B levels and increased degranulation, although not increased proliferation. Although the number of myeloid-derived suppressor cells was increased in the lungs with metastatic tumors of Bcl11b(F/F)/CD4-Cre mice, their arginase-1 levels were severely reduced. The increase in NK cell and myeloid-derived suppressor cell numbers was associated with increased bone marrow and splenic hematopoiesis. Finally, the reduced tumor burden, increased numbers of NK cells in the lung, and increased hematopoiesis in Bcl11b(F/F)/CD4-Cre mice were all dependent on TNF-α. Moreover, TNF-α treatment of wild-type mice also reduced the tumor burden and increased hematopoiesis and the numbers and activity of NK cells in the lung. In vitro treatment with TNF-α of lineage-negative hematopoietic progenitors increased NK and myeloid differentiation, further supporting a role of TNF-α in promoting hematopoiesis. These studies reveal a novel role for TNF-α in the antitumor immune response, specifically in stimulating hematopoiesis and increasing the numbers and activity of NK cells.
Acute myeloid leukemia is a neoplasm characterized by recurrent molecular aberrations traditionally demonstrated by cytogenetic analyses. We used high density genome-wide genotyping and gene expression profiling to reveal acquired cryptic abnormalities in acute myeloid leukemia. By genome-wide genotyping of 137 cases of primary acute myeloid leukemia, we disclosed a recurrent focal amplification on chromosome 14q32, which included the genes BCL11B, CCNK, C14orf177 and SETD3, in two cases. In the affected cases, the BCL11B gene showed consistently high mRNA expression, whereas the expression of the other genes was unperturbed. Fluorescence in situ hybridization on 40 cases of acute myeloid leukemia with high BCL11B mRNA expression [2.5-fold above median; 40 out of 530 cases (7.5%)] revealed 14q32 abnormalities in two additional cases. In the four BCL11B-rearranged cases the 14q32 locus was fused to different partner chromosomes. In fact, in two cases, we demonstrated that the focal 14q32 amplifications were integrated into transcriptionally active loci. The translocations involving BCL11B result in increased expression of full-length BCL11B protein. The BCL11B-rearranged acute myeloid leukemias expressed both myeloid and T-cell markers. These biphenotypic acute leukemias all carried FLT3 internal tandem duplications, a characteristic marker of acute myeloid leukemia. BCL11B mRNA expression in acute myeloid leukemia appeared to be strongly associated with expression of other T-cell-specific genes. Myeloid 32D(GCSF-R) cells ectopically expressing Bcl11b showed decreased proliferation rate and less maturation. In conclusion, by an integrated approach involving high-throughput genome-wide genotyping and gene expression profiling we identified BCL11B as a candidate oncogene in acute myeloid leukemia.
T-cell large granular lymphocytic (T-LGL) leukemia is a clonal disease characterized by the expansion of mature CD3+CD8+ cytotoxic T cells. It is often associated with autoimmune disorders and immune-mediated cytopenias. Our recent findings suggest that up to 40% of T-LGL patients harbor mutations in the STAT3 gene, whereas STAT5 mutations are present in 2% of patients. In order to identify putative disease-causing genetic alterations in the remaining T-LGL patients, we performed exome sequencing from three STAT mutation-negative patients and validated the findings in 113 large granular lymphocytic (LGL) leukemia patients. On average, 11 CD8+ LGL leukemia cell-specific high-confidence nonsynonymous somatic mutations were discovered in each patient. Interestingly, all patients had at least one mutation that affects either directly the STAT3-pathway (such as PTPRT) or T-cell activation (BCL11B, SLIT2 and NRP1). In all three patients, the STAT3 pathway was activated when studied by RNA expression or pSTAT3 analysis. Screening of the remaining 113 LGL leukemia patients did not reveal additional patients with same mutations. These novel mutations are potentially biologically relevant and represent rare genetic triggers for T-LGL leukemia, and are associated with similar disease phenotype as observed in patients with mutations in the STAT3 gene.
A loss of function of SIP1 (Smad interacting protein 1) in the mouse as well as in human of Mowat-Wilson syndrome results in severe and multiple defects in neural tissue development, especially in the brain. However, no detailed expression analysis of SIP1 during brain development has been previously reported. In this study, we describe the generation of an EGFP knock-in reporter mouse for the Sip1 locus and our subsequent analysis of SIP1-EGFP fusion protein expression during brain development. SIP1-EGFP expression was observed in the pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, the dentate gyrus, and the postmitotic neurons in the cerebral cortex. In layer 5 of the cerebral cortex, SIP1-EGFP expression was complementary to the Ctip2-expressing neurons, most of which are thought to be the cortico-spinal neurons. This suggested that SIP1-EGFP expressing cells might have the specific trajectory targets other than the spinal region. We further observed SIP1-EGFP expression in oligodendrocytes of the corpus callosum and fimbria, Bergmann glial cells of the cerebellum, the olfactory bulb, and in the serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons of the raphe nuclei in the brainstem. These findings may help to clarify the unknown roles of SIP1 in these cells and the pathoetiology of Mowat-Wilson syndrome.
Neurotrophins and modifiers of chromatin acetylation and deacetylation participate in regulation of transcription during neuronal maturation and maintenance. The striatal medium spiny neuron is supported by cortically-derived brain derived neurotrophic factor and is the most vulnerable neuron in Huntington's disease, in which growth factor and histone deacetylase activity are both disrupted. We examined the ability of three histone deacetylase inhibitors, trichostatin A, valproic acid and Compound 4 b, alone and combined with brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), to promote phenotypic maturation of striatal medium spiny neurons in vitro. Exposure of these neurons to each of the three compounds led to an increase in overall histone H3 and H4 acetylation, dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa (DARPP-32) mRNA and protein, and mRNA levels of other markers of medium spiny neuron maturation. We were, however, unable to prove that HDAC inhibitors directly lead to remodeling of Ppp1r1b chromatin. In addition, induction of DARPP-32 by brain-derived neurotrophic factor was inhibited by histone deacetylase inhibitors. Although BDNF-induced increases in pTrkB, pAkt, pERK and Egr-1 were unchanged by combined application with VPA, the increase in DARPP-32 was relatively diminished. Strikingly, the NGF1A-binding protein, Nab2, was induced by BDNF, but not in the presence of VPA or TSA. Gel shift analysis showed that α-Nab2 super-shifted a band that is more prominent with extract derived from BDNF-treated neurons than with extracts from cultures treated with VPA alone or VPA plus BDNF. In addition, overexpression of Nab2 induced DARPP-32. We conclude that histone deacetylase inhibitors inhibit the induction of Nab2 by BDNF, and thereby the relative induction of DARPP-32.
We have previously shown in mice that cytokine-mediated damage to the placenta can temporarily limit the flow of nutrients and oxygen to the fetus. The placental vulnerability is pronounced before embryonic day 11, when even mild immune challenge results in fetal loss. As gestation progresses, the placenta becomes increasingly resilient to maternal inflammation, but there is a narrow window in gestation when the placenta is still vulnerable to immune challenge yet resistant enough to allow for fetal survival. This gestational window correlates with early cortical neurogenesis in the fetal brain. Here, we show that maternal illness during this period selectively alters the abundance and laminar positioning of neuronal subtypes influenced by the Tbr1, Satb2, and Ctip2/Fezf2 patterning axis. The disturbances also lead to a laminar imbalance in the proportions of projection neurons and interneurons in the adult and are sufficient to cause changes in social behavior and cognition. These data illustrate how the timing of an illness-related placental vulnerability causes developmental alterations in neuroanatomical systems and behaviors that are relevant to autism spectrum disorders.
Precursor cell entry into the T-cell developmental pathway can be divided into two phases by the closure of T-lineage commitment. As cells decide against the last alternative options to the T-cell fate, they turn on the transcription factor Bcl11b and silence expression of a group of multipotent progenitor regulatory factors that include hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1. Functional perturbation tests show that Bcl11b is needed for commitment while PU.1 actively participates in keeping open access to alternative fates, until it is silenced; however, PU.1 and Bcl11b both contribute positively to T-cell development. Our recent work reviewed here sheds light on the transcriptional regulatory network that determines the timing and irreversibility of Bcl11b activation, the ways that Notch signaling from the thymic microenvironment restricts the action of PU.1 to prevent it from diverting cells to non-T fates, and the target genes that PU.1 still regulates under the influence of Notch signaling to contribute to T-cell generation. We argue that T-cell development depends on the sequential operation of two interlaced, but mutually antagonistic, gene regulatory networks, one initially supporting expansion before commitment and the other imposing a "terminal" differentiation process on committed cells.
CTIP2 is a key transcriptional regulator involved in numerous physiological functions. Initial works have shown the importance of CTIP2 in the establishment and persistence of HIV latency in microglial cells, the main latent/quiescent viral reservoir in the brain. Recent studies have highlighted the importance of CTIP2 in several other pathologies, such as cardiac hypertrophy and various types of human malignancies. Targeting CTIP2 may therefore constitute a new approach in the treatment of these pathologies.
T cell commitment and αβ/γδ lineage specification in the thymus involves interactions between many different genes. Characterization of these interactions thus requires a multiparameter analysis of individual thymocytes. We developed two efficient single-cell methods: (i) the quantitative evaluation of the co-expression levels of nine different genes, with a plating efficiency of 99-100% and a detection limit of 2 mRNA molecules/cell; and (ii) single-cell differentiation cultures, in the presence of OP9 cells transfected with the thymus Notch1 ligand DeltaL4. We show that during T cell commitment, Gata3 has a fundamental, dose-dependent role in maintaining Notch1 expression, with thymocytes becoming T-cell-committed when they co-express Notch1, Gata3 and Bc11b. Of the transcription factor expression patterns studied here, only that of Bcl11b was suggestive of a role in Pu1 down-regulation. Individual thymocytes became αβ/γδ lineage-committed at very different stages (from the TN2a stage onwards). However, 20% of TN3 cells are not αβ/γδ-lineage committed and TN4 cells comprise two main subpopulations with different degrees of maturity. The existence of a correlation between differentiation potential and expression of the pre-TCR showed that 83% of αβ-committed cells do not express the pre-TCR and revealed a major stochastic component in αβ-lineage specification.
We describe a novel role for the orphan nuclear receptor Ear-2 in regulating T cell development. Retrovirus-mediated overexpression of Ear-2 (EAR-2++) in a bone marrow (BM) transplantation assay resulted in limited T cell development and a greater than tenfold decrease in thymus size and cellularity relative to controls. Ear-2-transduced murine BM hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in OP9-DL1 cultures showed a proliferation deficit during days 1-5 after induction of differentiation, which corresponded to increased expression of the cell cycle regulators p21 (cdkn1a) and p27 (cdkn1b), as well as increased expression of Hes1, Notch3, Egr1, and Scl (Tal1) and decreased expression of Gli1, Gfi-1, HoxA9, PU.1, Nrarp, and Tcf1. In addition, there was a block in differentiation at the DN4 to double-positive (DP) transition accompanied by an increase in apoptosis, similar to the deficit seen in the RORγt null mouse. Gene expression profiling revealed that, like the RORγt-deficient mouse, EAR-2++ DP cells had decreased expression of BclXL and increased expression of the proapoptosis gene Bad. In addition, EAR-2++ DP cells had decreased expression of Bcl11b, PU.1, and HoxA9, and increased expression of Id2. Based on these findings, we conclude that EAR-2++ cells were able to migrate to, but not fully repopulate, the thymus because of a cell-intrinsic defect in the proliferation of DN1 cells followed by a block in differentiation from the DN4 to DP stage of T cell development. We conclude that Ear-2 is a novel negative regulator of T-cell development and that downregulation of Ear-2 is indispensable for the proliferation of DN1 cells and the survival of DN4-DP cells.
The von Economo neurons (VENs) are large bipolar Layer V projection neurons found chiefly in the anterior cingulate and frontoinsular cortices. Although VENs have been linked to prevalent illnesses such as frontotemporal dementia, autism, and schizophrenia, little is known about VEN identity, including their major projection targets. Here, we undertook a developmental transcription factor expression study, focusing on markers associated with specific classes of Layer V projection neurons. Using mRNA in situ hybridization, we found that VENs prominently express FEZF2 and CTIP2, transcription factors that regulate the fate and differentiation of subcerebral projection neurons, in humans aged 3 months to 65 years. In contrast, few VENs expressed markers associated with callosal or corticothalamic projections. These findings suggest that VENs may represent a specialized Layer V projection neuron for linking cortical autonomic control sites to brainstem or spinal cord regions.
The p160/Steroid Receptor Coactivators SRC-1, SRC-2/GRIP1, and SRC-3/AIB1 are important regulators of Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERα) activity. However, whereas the functions of SRC-1 and SRC-3 in breast tumourigenesis have been extensively studied, little is known about the role of SRC-2. Previously, we reported that activation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, PKA, facilitates ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of SRC-2 which in turn leads to inhibition of SRC-2-coactivation of ERα and changed expression of the ERα target gene, pS2. Here we have characterized the global program of transcription in SRC-2-depleted MCF-7 breast cancer cells using short-hairpin RNA technology, and in MCF-7 cells exposed to PKA activating agents. In order to identify genes that may be regulated through PKA-induced downregulation of SRC-2, overlapping transcriptional targets in response to the respective treatments were characterized. Interestingly, we observed decreased expression of several breast cancer tumour suppressor genes (e.g., TAGLN, EGR1, BCL11b, CAV1) in response to both SRC-2 knockdown and PKA activation, whereas the expression of a number of other genes implicated in cancer progression (e.g., RET, BCAS1, TFF3, CXCR4, ADM) was increased. In line with this, knockdown of SRC-2 also stimulated proliferation of MCF-7 cells. Together, these results suggest that SRC-2 may have an antiproliferative function in breast cancer cells.
Comment on    Blood. 2013 Aug 8;122(6):902-11.
The positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) is involved in physiological and pathological events including inflammation, cancer, AIDS, and cardiac hypertrophy. The balance between its active and inactive form is tightly controlled to ensure cellular integrity. We report that the transcriptional repressor CTIP2 is a major modulator of P-TEFb activity. CTIP2 copurifies and interacts with an inactive P-TEFb complex containing the 7SK snRNA and HEXIM1. CTIP2 associates directly with HEXIM1 and, via the loop 2 of the 7SK snRNA, with P-TEFb. In this nucleoprotein complex, CTIP2 significantly represses the Cdk9 kinase activity of P-TEFb. Accordingly, we show that CTIP2 inhibits large sets of P-TEFb- and 7SK snRNA-sensitive genes. In hearts of hypertrophic cardiomyopathic mice, CTIP2 controls P-TEFb-sensitive pathways involved in the establishment of this pathology. Overexpression of the β-myosin heavy chain protein contributes to the pathological cardiac wall thickening. The inactive P-TEFb complex associates with CTIP2 at the MYH7 gene promoter to repress its activity. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that CTIP2 controls P-TEFb function in physiological and pathological conditions.
During development of the cerebral cortex, neural stem cells divide to expand the progenitor pool and generate basal progenitors, outer radial glia, and cortical neurons. As these newly born neurons differentiate, they must properly migrate toward their final destination in the cortical plate, project axons to appropriate targets, and develop dendrites. However, a complete understanding of the precise genetic mechanisms regulating these steps is lacking. Here we show that a member of the nuclear factor one (NFI) family of transcription factors, NFIB, is essential for many of these processes in mice. We performed a detailed analysis of NFIB expression during cortical development, and investigated defects in cortical neurogenesis, neuronal migration, and differentiation in NfiB(-/-) brains. We found that NFIB is strongly expressed in radial glia and corticofugal neurons throughout cortical development. However, in NfiB(-/-) cortices, radial glia failed to generate outer radial glia, subsequently resulting in a loss of late basal progenitors. In addition, corticofugal neurons showed a severe loss of axonal projections, whereas late-born cortical neurons displayed defects in migration and ectopically expressed the early-born neuronal marker CTIP2. Furthermore, gene expression analysis, by RNA sequencing, revealed a misexpression of genes that regulate the cell cycle, neuronal differentiation and migration in NfiB(-/-) brains. Together these results demonstrate the critical functions of NFIB in regulating cortical development.
Comment in    Blood. 2013 Aug 8;122(6):854-6.
Rodent incisors maintain the ability to grow continuously and their labial dentin is covered with enamel. Bcl11b zinc-finger transcription factor is expressed in ameloblast progenitors in mouse incisors and its absence in Bcl11b(KO/KO) mice results in a defect in embryonic tooth development. However, the role of Bcl11b in incisor maintenance in adult tissue was not studied because of death at birth in Bcl11b(KO/KO) mice. Here, we examined compound heterozygous Bcl11b(S826G/KO) mice, one allele of which has an amino acid substitution of serine at position 826 for glycine, that exhibited hypoplastic maxillary incisors with lower concentrations of minerals at the enamel and the dentin, accompanying the maxillary bone hypoplasia. Histological examinations revealed hypoplasia of the labial cervical loop in incisors, shortening of the ameloblast progenitor region, and impairment in differentiation and proliferation of ameloblast-lineage cells. Interestingly, however, juvenile mice at 5days after birth did not show marked change in these phenotypes. These results suggest that attenuated Bcl11b activity impairs ameloblast progenitors and incisor maintenance. The number of BrdU label-retaining cells, putative stem cells, was lower in Bcl11b(S826G/KO) incisors, which suggests the incisor hypoplasia may be in part a result of the decreased number of stem cells. Interestingly, the level of Shh and FGF3 expressions, which are assumed to play key roles in the development and maintenance of ameloblasts and odontoblasts, was not decreased, though the expressed areas were more restricted in ameloblast progenitor and mesenchyme regions of Bcl11b(S826G/KO) incisors, respectively. Those data suggest that the incisor maintenance by Bcl11b is not directly related to the FGF epithelial-mesenchymal signaling loop including Shh but is intrinsic to ameloblast progenitors and possibly stem cells.
Atria and ventricles exhibit distinct molecular profiles that produce structural and functional differences between the two cardiac compartments. However, the factors that determine these differences remain largely undefined. Cardiomyocyte-specific COUP-TFII ablation produces ventricularized atria that exhibit ventricle-like action potentials, increased cardiomyocyte size, and development of extensive T tubules. Changes in atrial characteristics are accompanied by alterations of 2,584 genes, of which 81% were differentially expressed between atria and ventricles, suggesting that a major function of myocardial COUP-TFII is to determine atrial identity. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays using E13.5 atria identified classic atrial-ventricular identity genes Tbx5, Hey2, Irx4, MLC2v, MLC2a, and MLC1a, among many other cardiac genes, as potential COUP-TFII direct targets. Collectively, our results reveal that COUP-TFII confers atrial identity through direct binding and by modulating expression of a broad spectrum of genes that have an impact on atrial development and function.
Adult T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive hematologic tumor associated with poor outcome. In this study, we analyzed the prognostic relevance of genetic alterations, immunophenotypic markers, and microarray gene expression signatures in a panel of 53 adult T-ALL patients treated in the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group E2993 clinical trial. An early immature gene expression signature, the absence of bi-allelic TCRG deletion, CD13 surface expression, heterozygous deletions of the short arm of chromosome 17, and mutations in IDH1/IDH2 and DNMT3A genes are associated with poor prognosis in this series. In contrast, expression of CD8 or CD62L, homozygous deletion of CDKN2A/CDKN2B, NOTCH1 and/or FBXW7 mutations, and mutations or deletions in the BCL11B tumor suppressor gene were associated with improved overall survival. Importantly, the prognostic relevance of CD13 expression and homozygous CDKN2A/CDKN2B deletions was restricted to cortical and mature T-ALLs. Conversely, mutations in IDH1/IDH2 and DNMT3A were specifically associated with poor outcome in early immature adult T-ALLs. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00002514.
BCL11B is a Kruppel-like C2H2-type zinc finger transcription factor, which has been associated with several human malignancies. Recent evidence showed that overexpressed BCL11B conferred chemoresistance to malignant T cells and that inhibiting BCL11B led to increased apoptosis, suggesting its potential pathogenic relevance in cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL), which were characterized by the resistance to chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. To investigate the expression pattern of BCL11B in different stages of mycosis fungoides (MF), quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry were performed to compare the mRNA and protein expression among different stages of MF and benign inflammatory dermatoses (BID), respectively. BCL11B demonstrated significant upregulation in all stages of MF, compared with BID, in both mRNA expression level and protein level. In addition, BCL11B expression increased with advancing lesion tumor stage and overall disease stage. Further, to evaluate the dynamic expression of BCL11B under CTCL-directed treatment, BCL11B expression and cell apoptosis were evaluated after interferon (IFN)-α-2b and methotrexate treatment on CTCL cell line Hut78 cells. IFN-α-2b, but not methotrexate, induced BCL11B inhibition and cell apoptosis, suggesting that BCL11B may play important roles in the anti-CTCL effect of IFN-α-2b. In conclusion, our study demonstrated the overexpression of BCL11B in MF lesions and its potential relevance to disease progression. In addition, we provided evidence for BCL11B inhibitory approaches as a potential treatment to target chemoresistant tumor cells in advanced MF.
Human adenoviruses are known to persist in T-lymphocytes of tonsils, adenoids and intestinal tract. The oncogenic potential of different adenovirus types has been widely studied in rodents, in which adenovirus inoculation can induce multiple tumors such as undifferentiated sarcomas, adenocarcinomas and neuroectodermal tumors. However, the oncogenic potential of this virus has never been proven in human subjects. Using a highly sensitive broad-spectrum qRT-PCR, we have screened a set of different human sarcomas including leiomyosarcoma, liposarcoma and gastro intestinal stroma tumors. Primers binding the viral oncogene E1A and the capsid-coding gene Hexon were used to detect the presence of adenovirus DNA in tumor samples. We found that 18% of the tested leiomyosarcomas and 35% of the liposarcomas were positive for the presence of adenovirus DNA, being species C types the most frequently detected adenoviruses. However, only in one sample of the gastro intestinal stroma tumors the virus DNA could be detected. The occurrence of adenovirus in the tumor sections was confirmed by subsequent fluorescence in-situ-hybridization analysis and co-staining with the transcription factor Bcl11b gives evidence for the presence of the virus in infiltrating T-lymphocytes within the tumors. Together these data underline, for the first time, the persistence of adenovirus in T-lymphocytes infiltrated in muscular and fatty tissue tumor samples. If an impaired immune system leads to the viral persistence and reactivation of the virus is involved in additional diseases needs further investigation.
Bcl11b is a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor, mutations or deletion of which has been found in 10-16% of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias. Bcl11b(KO) (/+) heterozygous mice are susceptible to thymic lymphomas, a model of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, when γ-irradiated, and irradiated Bcl11b(KO) (/+) mice generate clonally expanding or premalignant thymocytes before thymic lymphoma development. Cells with radiation-induced DNA damages are assumed to be the cells of origin in tumors; however, which thymocyte is the tumor cell origin remains obscure. In this study we generated Bcl11b(flox/+) ;Lck-Cre and Bcl11b(flox/+) ;CD4-Cre mice; in the former, loss of one Bcl11b allele occurs in thymocytes at the immature CD4(-) CD8(-) stage, whereas in the latter the loss occurs in the more differentiated CD4(+) CD8(+) double-positive stage. We examined clonal expansion and differentiation of thymocytes in mice 60 days after 3 Gy γ-irradiation. Half (9/18) of the thymuses in the Bcl11b(flox/+) ;Lck-Cre group showed limited rearrangement sites at the T-cell receptor-β (TCRβ) locus, indicating clonal cell expansion, but none in the Bcl11b(flox/+) ;CD4-Cre group did. This indicates that the origin of the premalignant thymocytes is not in double-positive cells but immature thymocytes. Interestingly, those premalignant thymocytes underwent rearrangement at various different sites of the TCRα locus and the majority showed a higher expression of TCRβ and CD8, and more differentiated phenotypes. This suggests the existence of a subpopulation of immature cells within the premalignant cells that is capable of proliferating and continuously producing differentiated thymocytes.
Subunits of mammalian SWI/SNF (mSWI/SNF or BAF) complexes have recently been implicated as tumor suppressors in human malignancies. To understand the full extent of their involvement, we conducted a proteomic analysis of endogenous mSWI/SNF complexes, which identified several new dedicated, stable subunits not found in yeast SWI/SNF complexes, including BCL7A, BCL7B and BCL7C, BCL11A and BCL11B, BRD9 and SS18. Incorporating these new members, we determined mSWI/SNF subunit mutation frequency in exome and whole-genome sequencing studies of primary human tumors. Notably, mSWI/SNF subunits are mutated in 19.6% of all human tumors reported in 44 studies. Our analysis suggests that specific subunits protect against cancer in specific tissues. In addition, mutations affecting more than one subunit, defined here as compound heterozygosity, are prevalent in certain cancers. Our studies demonstrate that mSWI/SNF is the most frequently mutated chromatin-regulatory complex (CRC) in human cancer, exhibiting a broad mutation pattern, similar to that of TP53. Thus, proper functioning of polymorphic BAF complexes may constitute a major mechanism of tumor suppression.
We performed short-term bi-directional selective breeding for haloperidol-induced catalepsy, starting from three mouse populations of increasingly complex genetic structure: an F2 intercross, a heterogeneous stock (HS) formed by crossing four inbred strains (HS4) and a heterogeneous stock (HS-CC) formed from the inbred strain founders of the Collaborative Cross (CC). All three selections were successful, with large differences in haloperidol response emerging within three generations. Using a custom differential network analysis procedure, we found that gene coexpression patterns changed significantly; importantly, a number of these changes were concordant across genetic backgrounds. In contrast, absolute gene-expression changes were modest and not concordant across genetic backgrounds, in spite of the large and similar phenotypic differences. By inferring strain contributions from the parental lines, we are able to identify significant differences in allelic content between the selected lines concurrent with large changes in transcript connectivity. Importantly, this observation implies that genetic polymorphisms can affect transcript and module connectivity without large changes in absolute expression levels. We conclude that, in this case, selective breeding acts at the subnetwork level, with the same modules but not the same transcripts affected across the three selections.
The EWS/FLI translocation product is the causative oncogene in Ewing sarcoma and acts as an aberrant transcription factor. EWS/FLI dysregulates gene expression during tumorigenesis by abnormally activating or repressing genes. The expression levels of thousands of genes are affected in Ewing sarcoma, however, it is unknown which of these genes contribute to the transformed phenotype. Here we characterize BCL11B as an up-regulated EWS/FLI target that is necessary for the maintenance of transformation in patient derived Ewing sarcoma cells lines. BCL11B, a zinc finger transcription factor, acts as a transcriptional repressor in Ewing's sarcoma and contributes to the EWS/FLI repressed gene signature. BCL11B repressive activity is mediated by the NuRD co-repressor complex. We further demonstrate that re-expression of SPRY1, a repressed target of BCL11B, limits the transformation capacity of Ewing sarcoma cells. These data define a new pathway downstream of EWS/FLI required for oncogenic maintenance in Ewing sarcoma.
Comment in    Neurology. 2013 Apr 9;80(15):1363-4.
INTRODUCTION: Inappropriate activation of the TLX1 (T-cell leukemia homeobox 1) gene by chromosomal translocation is a recurrent event in human T-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (T-ALL). Ectopic expression of TLX1 in murine bone marrow progenitor cells using a conventional retroviral vector efficiently yields immortalized cell lines and induces T-ALL-like tumors in mice after long latency.METHODS: To eliminate a potential contribution of retroviral insertional mutagenesis to TLX1 immortalizing and transforming function, we incorporated the TLX1 gene into an insulated self-inactivating retroviral vector.RESULTS: Retrovirally transduced TLX1-expressing murine bone marrow progenitor cells had a growth/survival advantage and readily gave rise to immortalized cell lines. Extensive characterization of 15 newly established cell lines failed to reveal a common retroviral integration site. This comprehensive analysis greatly extends our previous study involving a limited number of cell lines, providing additional support for the view that constitutive TLX1 expression is sufficient to initiate the series of events culminating in hematopoietic progenitor cell immortalization. When TLX1-immortalized cells were co-cultured on OP9-DL1 monolayers under conditions permissive for T-cell differentiation, a latent T-lineage potential was revealed. However, the cells were unable to transit the DN2 myeloid-T (DN2mt)-DN2 T-lineage determined (DN2t) commitment step. The differentiation block coincided with failure to upregulate the zinc finger transcription factor gene Bcl11b, the human ortholog of which was shown to be a direct transcriptional target of TLX1 downregulated in the TLX1+ T-ALL cell line ALL-SIL. Other studies have described the ability of TLX1 to promote bypass of mitotic checkpoint arrest, leading to aneuploidy. We likewise found that diploid TLX1-expressing DN2mt cells treated with the mitotic inhibitor paclitaxel bypassed the mitotic checkpoint and displayed chromosomal instability. This was associated with elevated expression of TLX1 transcriptional targets involved in DNA replication and mitosis, including Ccna2 (cyclin A2), Ccnb1 (cyclin B1), Ccnb2 (cyclin B2) and Top2a (topoisomerase IIα). Notably, enforced expression of BCL11B in ALL-SIL T-ALL cells conferred resistance to the topoisomerase IIα poison etoposide.CONCLUSION: Taken together with previous findings, the data reinforce a mechanism of TLX1 oncogenic activity linked to chromosomal instability resulting from dysregulated expression of target genes involved in mitotic processes. We speculate that repression of BCL11B expression may provide part of the explanation for the observation that aneuploid DNA content in TLX1+ leukemic T cells does not necessarily portend an unfavorable prognosis. This TLX1 hematopoietic progenitor cell immortalization/T-cell differentiation assay should help further our understanding of the mechanisms of TLX1-mediated evolution to malignancy and has the potential to be a useful predictor of disease response to novel therapeutic agents in TLX1+ T-ALL.
Comment on    J Invest Dermatol. 2013 Mar;133(3):668-76.
Major outputs of the neocortex are conveyed by corticothalamic axons (CTAs), which form reciprocal connections with thalamocortical axons, and corticosubcerebral axons (CSAs) headed to more caudal parts of the nervous system. Previous findings establish that transcriptional programs define cortical neuron identity and suggest that CTAs and thalamic axons may guide each other, but the mechanisms governing CTA versus CSA pathfinding remain elusive. Here, we show that thalamocortical axons are required to guide pioneer CTAs away from a default CSA-like trajectory. This process relies on a hold in the progression of cortical axons, or waiting period, during which thalamic projections navigate toward cortical axons. At the molecular level, Sema3E/PlexinD1 signaling in pioneer cortical neurons mediates a "waiting signal" required to orchestrate the mandatory meeting with reciprocal thalamic axons. Our study reveals that temporal control of axonal progression contributes to spatial pathfinding of cortical projections and opens perspectives on brain wiring.
BACKGROUND: Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) develops in a small proportion of human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I)-infected individuals. However, the mechanism by which HTLV-I causes ATLL has not been fully elucidated. To provide fundamental insights into the multistep process of leukemogenesis, we have mapped the chromosomal abnormalities in 50 ATLL cases to identify potential key regulators of ATLL.RESULTS: The analysis of breakpoints in one ATLL case with the translocations t(14;17)(q32;q22-23) resulted in the identification of a Kruppel zinc finger gene, BCL11B, which plays a crucial role in T-cell development. Among the 7 ATLL cases that we examined by immunofluorescence analysis, 4 displayed low and one displayed moderate BCL11B signal intensities. A dramatically reduced level of the BCL11B protein was also found in HTLV-I-positive T-cell lines. The ectopic expression of BCL11B resulted in significant growth suppression in ATLL-derived cell lines but not in Jurkat cells.CONCLUSIONS: Our genetic and functional data provide the first evidence that a reduction in the level of the BCL11B protein is a key event in the multistep progression of ATLL leukemogenesis.
BACKGROUND: Ctip2 is crucial for epidermal homeostasis and protective barrier formation in developing mouse embryos. Selective ablation of Ctip2 in epidermis leads to increased transepidermal water loss (TEWL), impaired epidermal proliferation, terminal differentiation, as well as altered lipid composition during development. However, little is known about the role of Ctip2 in skin homeostasis in adult mice.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To study the role of Ctip2 in adult skin homeostasis, we utilized Ctip2(ep-/-) mouse model in which Ctip2 is selectively deleted in epidermal keratinocytes. Measurement of TEWL, followed by histological, immunohistochemical, and RT-qPCR analyses revealed an important role of Ctip2 in barrier maintenance and in regulating adult skin homeostasis. We demonstrated that keratinocytic ablation of Ctip2 leads to atopic dermatitis (AD)-like skin inflammation, characterized by alopecia, pruritus and scaling, as well as extensive infiltration of immune cells including T lymphocytes, mast cells, and eosinophils. We observed increased expression of T-helper 2 (Th2)-type cytokines and chemokines in the mutant skin, as well as systemic immune responses that share similarity with human AD patients. Furthermore, we discovered that thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) expression was significantly upregulated in the mutant epidermis as early as postnatal day 1 and ChIP assay revealed that TSLP is likely a direct transcriptional target of Ctip2 in epidermal keratinocytes.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our data demonstrated a cell-autonomous role of Ctip2 in barrier maintenance and epidermal homeostasis in adult mice skin. We discovered a crucial non-cell autonomous role of keratinocytic Ctip2 in suppressing skin inflammatory responses by regulating the expression of Th2-type cytokines. It is likely that the epidermal hyperproliferation in the Ctip2-lacking epidermis may be secondary to the compensatory response of the adult epidermis that is defective in barrier functions. Our results establish an initiating role of epidermal TSLP in AD pathogenesis via a novel repressive regulatory mechanism enforced by Ctip2.
The B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) gene is a member of the BCL family which plays a crucial role in the development, proliferation, differentiation and subsequent survival of T cells. BCL11B gene alterations are related to malignant T cell transformation that occurs in hematological malignancies. Remarkably, the BCL11B gene is responsible for the regulation of the apoptotic process and cell proliferation. This review summarizes current data and knowledge concerning the alteration of BCL11B in hematological malignancies and its role as a potential target for therapies directed against T cell malignancies.
Comment in    J Neurosci. 2013 Mar 27;33(13):5437-8.
The B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) gene plays a critical role in T-cell differentiation and proliferation. However, little is understood about the role of BCL11B in human hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells. Small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated suppression of the BCL11B was shown to induce apoptosis in human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. To further characterize the role of BCL11B in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells and assess the safety of siRNA-mediated targeted therapy, the in vitro differentiation and proliferation of CD34(+) cells after BCL11B-siRNA935 treatment were studied. CD34(+) cells were sorted from three cases of umbilical cord blood by the magnetic activated cell sorting technique, and the purity was identified by flow cytometry. BCL11B-siRNA935 was delivered into CD34(+) cells by nucleofection and the BCL11B expression level was analyzed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Erythroid burst-forming units (BFU-E), granulocyte/macrophage colony-forming units (CFU-GM), and megakaryocyte colony-forming units (CFU-Meg) were assessed using BCL11B-siRNA935-treated CD34(+) cells by the methylcellulose semi-solid culture method. The BCL11B expression level in CD34(+) cells was significantly lower than that in Molt-4 cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy individuals. An approximate one-fold reduction in the BCL11B mRNA level was observed 24 hours post-transfection with BCL11B-siRNA935. However, there was no significant difference on the colony formation ability of BFU-E, CFU-GM, and CFU-Meg for CD34(+) cells between the BCL11B-siRNA935-treated and mock-transfected groups (P > 0.05). BCL11B suppression by RNA interference had no significant influence on the differentiation and proliferation of CD34(+) cells. In conclusion, the BCL11B-siRNA935 used in this study may be safe, and BCL11B may be considered a new candidate for targeted gene therapy in T-cell malignancies.
Interactions between the embryonic pial basement membrane (PBM) and radial glia (RG) are essential for morphogenesis of the cerebral cortex because disrupted interactions cause cobblestone malformations. To elucidate the role of dystroglycan (DG) in PBM-RG interactions, we studied the expression of DG protein and Dag1 mRNA (which encodes DG protein) in developing cerebral cortex and analyzed cortical phenotypes in Dag1 CNS conditional mutant mice. In normal embryonic cortex, Dag1 mRNA was expressed in the ventricular zone, which contains RG nuclei, whereas DG protein was expressed at the cortical surface on RG end feet. Breaches of PBM continuity appeared during early neurogenesis in Dag1 mutants. Diverse cellular elements streamed through the breaches to form leptomeningeal heterotopia that were confluent with the underlying residual cortical plate and contained variably truncated RG fibers, many types of cortical neurons, and radial and intermediate progenitor cells. Nevertheless, layer-specific molecular expression seemed normal in heterotopic neurons, and axons projected to appropriate targets. Dendrites, however, were excessively tortuous and lacked radial orientation. These findings indicate that DG is required on RG end feet to maintain PBM integrity and suggest that cobblestone malformations involve disturbances of RG structure, progenitor distribution, and dendrite orientation, in addition to neuronal "overmigration."
Neurons within each layer in the mammalian cortex have stereotypic projections. Four genes-Fezf2, Ctip2, Tbr1, and Satb2-regulate these projection identities. These genes also interact with each other, and it is unclear how these interactions shape the final projection identity. Here we show, by generating double mutants of Fezf2, Ctip2, and Satb2, that cortical neurons deploy a complex genetic switch that uses mutual repression to produce subcortical or callosal projections. We discovered that Tbr1, EphA4, and Unc5H3 are critical downstream targets of Satb2 in callosal fate specification. This represents a unique role for Tbr1, implicated previously in specifying corticothalamic projections. We further show that Tbr1 expression is dually regulated by Satb2 and Ctip2 in layers 2-5. Finally, we show that Satb2 and Fezf2 regulate two disease-related genes, Auts2 (Autistic Susceptibility Gene2) and Bhlhb5 (mutated in Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia), providing a molecular handle to investigate circuit disorders in neurodevelopmental diseases.
Corticostriatal projection neurons (CStrPN) project from the neocortex to ipsilateral and contralateral striata to control and coordinate motor programs and movement. They are clinically important as the predominant cortical population that degenerates in Huntington's disease and corticobasal ganglionic degeneration, and their injury contributes to multiple forms of cerebral palsy. Together with their well-studied functions in motor control, these clinical connections make them a functionally, behaviorally, and clinically important population of neocortical neurons. Little is known about their development. "Intratelencephalic" CStrPN (CStrPNi), projecting to the contralateral striatum, with their axons fully within the telencephalon (intratelencephalic), are a major population of CStrPN. CStrPNi are of particular interest developmentally because they share hodological and axon guidance characteristics of both callosal projection neurons (CPN) and corticofugal projection neurons (CFuPN); CStrPNi send axons contralaterally before descending into the contralateral striatum. The relationship of CStrPNi development to that of broader CPN and CFuPN populations remains unclear; evidence suggests that CStrPNi might be evolutionary "hybrids" between CFuPN and deep layer CPN-in a sense "chimeric" with both callosal and corticofugal features. Here, we investigated the development of CStrPNi in mice-their birth, maturation, projections, and expression of molecular developmental controls over projection neuron subtype identity.
Comment in    J Invest Dermatol. 2013 Mar;133(3):593-4.
Author information:(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Institute of Human Genetics, Polish Academy of Sciences, Poznań, Poland.
Epidermal morphogenesis results from a delicate balance between keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation, and this balance is perturbed upon deletion of transcription factor Ctip2. Here we demonstrate that Ctip2, in a cell autonomous manner, controls keratinocyte proliferation and cytoskeletal organization, and regulates the onset and maintenance of differentiation in keratinocytes in culture. Ctip2 integrates keratinocyte proliferation and the switch to differentiation by directly and positively regulating EGFR transcription in proliferating cells and Notch1 transcription in differentiating cells. In proliferative cells, the EGFR promoter is occupied by Ctip2, whereas Ctip2 is only recruited to the Notch1 promoter under differentiating conditions. Activation of EGFR signaling downregulates Ctip2 at the transcript level, whereas high calcium signaling triggers SUMOylation, ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of Ctip2 at the protein level. Together, our findings demonstrate a novel mechanism(s) of Ctip2-mediated, coordinated control of epidermal proliferation and terminal differentiation, and identify a pathway of negative feedback regulation of Ctip2 during epidermal development.
To provide fundamental insights into the leukemogenesis of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL), we performed a molecular analysis of the chromosomal abnormalities in one ATLL case with a novel reciprocal translocation: t(2;14)(q34;q32). Using fluorescence in situ hybridization with cosmid probes derived from the 14q32 region, we characterized the rearranged 14q32 allele. Molecular cloning of the breakpoint revealed that the reciprocal translocation fused the 5' proximal region of the B-cell lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) gene segment (on 14q32) to the third intron of the HELIOS gene (on 2q34). Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of the leukemia cells revealed that a substantial level of the HELIOS-BCL11B fusion mRNA was expressed relative to the level of wild-type (WT)-BCL11B derived from the intact allele. In contrast, an aberrant HELIOS isoform was detected at a low level of expression compared to the expression of normal HELIOS isoforms. Functional analysis of the HELIOS-BCL11B fusion protein revealed reduced transcriptional suppression activity compared to that of the WT-BCL11B due to the loss of the N-terminal friend of GATA-repression motif, which functions as a metastasis-associated protein 2 binding site. We also found abnormal subnuclear localization of the ectopically expressed fusion protein compared to the localization of WT-BCL11B to subnuclear speckles in HEK293T cells. Our results suggest that dysfunction of the BCL11B gene plays an important role in the development of ATLL.
Primary cutaneous gamma-delta T-cell lymphoma (PCGD-TCL), which originates from activated mature gamma-delta T cells with a cytotoxic phenotype is a rare T-cell lymphoproliferative disease. The prognosis of PCGD-TCL has been rather unfavorable due to poor response to conventional chemotherapy, and its molecular features and pathophysiology underlying disease development remain unknown. We report here a case with primarily treatment-resistant PCGD-TCL featuring highly complex cytogenetic and genetic aberrations detected by spectral karyotyping and genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array. Chromosomal aberrations included several chromosomal translocations involving breakpoints at 9p21, 14q11.2, 14q32.1, or 16q23.1, suggesting the involvement of WWOX, TCL gene cluster, and BCL11B, which are crucial for tumorigenesis in T-cell lymphomas. SNP analysis also identified genome copy number gains and losses in various regions, which can potently deregulate expression of various pro- and anti-oncogenic genes involved in RAS-related protein pathways, PI3K/AKT/MTOR-related pathways, MYC-related signaling, or TP53-related signaling. Thus, this case report may shed some light on the complex molecular abnormalities involved in the development of PCGD-TCL and on information that can aid the search for druggable target molecules in this disease.
Natural killer (NK)-cells are a lymphocyte population playing a critical role in the immune surveillance against tumors and virally infected cells. The development of human hematopoietic stem cells (hHSC) into fully differentiated NK-cells pass through discrete stages of differentiation involving a variety of factors such as cytokines, membrane factors, and transcription factors (TFs). Because there is lack of studies in this field, we decided to perform an extended analysis of TFs during in vitro differentiation of NK-cells. At several points of differentiation, cells were characterized by their mRNA expression either for NK-cell cell markers, for a number of mature NK-cell receptors or a large panel of TFs. Our data suggests that some TFs (ID2, EGR-2 and T-BET) play a role in NK-cell commitment, differentiation and maturation. Although delayed on its expression, BLIMP1 also seems to be involved in differentiation and maturation of NK cells, but not in NK-cell commitment. E4BP4 and TOX are more related with initial stages of NK-cell commitment. PU.1, MEF, Ikaros, EGR-1, BCL11B and IRF-2 revealed less involvement in maturation and were more associated with NK-cell commitment and pNK cell production. GATA-3 showed a differential role during the ontogeny of NK-cells. We show that assessment of the transcripts present in the differentiating NK-cells demonstrated, a pattern of preserved and differential gene expression remarkably similar to that seen in mice except for E4BP4 that showed constant downregulation throughout the culture period. A thorough understanding of NK-cell developmental mechanisms is important as it may enable future therapeutic manipulation.
The transcriptional regulatory protein Bcl11b is essential for T-cell development. We have discovered a dynamic, MAPK-regulated pathway involving sequential, linked, and reversible post-translational modifications of Bcl11b in thymocytes. MAPK-mediated phosphorylation of Bcl11b was coupled to its rapid desumoylation, which was followed by a subsequent cycle of dephosphorylation and resumoylation. Additionally and notably, we report the first instance of direct identification by mass spectrometry of a site of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) adduction, Lys-679 of Bcl11b, in a protein isolated from a native, mammalian cell. Sumoylation of Bcl11b resulted in recruitment of the transcriptional co-activator p300 to a Bcl11b-repressed promoter with subsequent induction of transcription. Prolonged treatment of native thymocytes with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate together with the calcium ionophore A23187 also promoted ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of Bcl11b, providing a mechanism for signal termination. A Bcl11b phospho-deSUMO switch was identified, the basis of which was phosphorylation-dependent recruitment of the SUMO hydrolase SENP1 to phospho-Bcl11b, coupled to hydrolysis of SUMO-Bcl11b. These results define a regulatory pathway in thymocytes that includes the MAPK pathways and upstream signaling components, Bcl11b and the associated nucleosome remodeling and deacetylation (NuRD) complex, SENP proteins, the Bcl11b protein phosphatase 6, the sumoylation machinery, the histone acetyltransferase p300, and downstream transcriptional machinery. This pathway appears to facilitate derepression of repressed Bcl11b target genes as immature thymocytes initiate differentiation programs, biochemically linking MAPK signaling with the latter stages of T-cell development.
Genetic changes in T-ALL are classified into type A abnormalities leading to arrest at a specific stage of T-cell differentiation and type B abnormalities that target cellular processes including cell cycle regulation. Mutations and deletion of a BCL11B haploinsuffiecient tumor suppressor allele have been found in 10-16% of T-ALL subgroups. Analysis of Bcl11b(KO/+) mice revealed impaired T-cell differentiation at two different stages and attenuation of γ-ray induced cell-cycle arrest at S/G2/M phase in immature CD8 single positive cells. Hence, those phenotypes provided by loss of a Bcl11b allele favor that Bcl11b mutation belongs to type B abnormalities.
Mouse incisors grow continuously throughout life with enamel deposition uniquely on the outer, or labial, side of the tooth. Asymmetric enamel deposition is due to the presence of enamel-secreting ameloblasts exclusively within the labial epithelium of the incisor. We have previously shown that mice lacking the transcription factor BCL11B/CTIP2 (BCL11B hereafter) exhibit severely disrupted ameloblast formation in the developing incisor. We now report that BCL11B is a key factor controlling epithelial proliferation and overall developmental asymmetry of the mouse incisor: BCL11B is necessary for proliferation of the labial epithelium and development of the epithelial stem cell niche, which gives rise to ameloblasts; conversely, BCL11B suppresses epithelial proliferation, and development of stem cells and ameloblasts on the inner, or lingual, side of the incisor. This bidirectional action of BCL11B in the incisor epithelia appears responsible for the asymmetry of ameloblast localization in developing incisor. Underlying these spatio-specific functions of BCL11B in incisor development is the regulation of a large gene network comprised of genes encoding several members of the FGF and TGFβ superfamilies, Sprouty proteins, and Sonic hedgehog. Our data integrate BCL11B into these pathways during incisor development and reveal the molecular mechanisms that underlie phenotypes of both Bcl11b(-/-) and Sprouty mutant mice.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the promoter hypermethylation as diagnostic markers to detect malignant prostate cells and as prognostic markers to predict the clinical recurrence of prostate cancer.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: DNA was isolated from prostate cancer and normal adjacent tissues. After bisulfite conversion, methylation of 14,495 genes was evaluated using the Methylation27 microarrays in 238 prostate tissues. We analyzed methylation profiles in four different groups: (i) tumor (n = 198) versus matched normal tissues (n = 40), (ii) recurrence (n = 123) versus nonrecurrence (n = 75), (iii) clinical recurrence (n = 80) versus biochemical recurrence (n = 43), and (iv) systemic recurrence (n = 36) versus local recurrence (n = 44). Group 1, 2, 3, and 4 genes signifying biomarkers for diagnosis, prediction of recurrence, clinical recurrence, and systemic progression were determined. Univariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to predict risk of recurrence. We validated the methylation of genes in 20 independent tissues representing each group by pyrosequencing.RESULTS: Microarray analysis revealed significant methylation of genes in four different groups of prostate cancer tissues. The sensitivity and specificity of methylation for 25 genes from 1, 2, and 4 groups and 7 from group 3 were shown. Validation of genes by pyrosequencing from group 1 (GSTP1, HIF3A, HAAO, and RARβ), group 2 (CRIP1, FLNC, RASGRF2, RUNX3, and HS3ST2), group 3 (PHLDA3, RASGRF2, and TNFRSF10D), and group 4 (BCL11B, POU3F3, and RASGRF2) confirmed the microarray results.CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a global assessment of DNA methylation in prostate cancer and identifies the significance of genes as diagnostic and progression biomarkers of prostate cancer.
The development of the dentate gyrus is characterized by distinct phases establishing a durable stem-cell pool required for postnatal and adult neurogenesis. Here, we report that Bcl11b/Ctip2, a zinc finger transcription factor expressed in postmitotic neurons, plays a critical role during postnatal development of the dentate gyrus. Forebrain-specific ablation of Bcl11b uncovers dual phase-specific functions of Bcl11b demonstrated by feedback control of the progenitor cell compartment as well as regulation of granule cell differentiation, leading to impaired spatial learning and memory in mutants. Surprisingly, we identified Desmoplakin as a direct transcriptional target of Bcl11b. Similarly to Bcl11b, postnatal neurogenesis and granule cell differentiation are impaired in Desmoplakin mutants. Re-expression of Desmoplakin in Bcl11b mutants rescues impaired neurogenesis, suggesting Desmoplakin to be an essential downstream effector of Bcl11b in hippocampal development. Together, our data define an important novel regulatory pathway in hippocampal development, by linking transcriptional functions of Bcl11b to Desmoplakin, a molecule known to act on cell adhesion.
Bcl11b is a lineage-specific transcription factor expressed in various cell types and its expression is important for development of T cells, neurons and others. On the other hand, Bcl11b is a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor and loss of a Bcl11b allele provides susceptibility to mouse thymic lymphoma and human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Although there are many transcription factors affecting both cell differentiation and cancer development, Bcl11b has several unique properties. This review describes phenotypes given by loss of Bcl11b and roles of Bcl11b in cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis, taking tissue development and lymphomagenesis into consideration.
Comment in    Neuron. 2012 Mar 22;73(6):1055-8.
The effect of the B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 11B gene (BCL11B) on human T-cell regulation remains unclear. To characterize the functions of BCL11B, recombinant BCL11B and BCL11B siRNA were transfected into human naive T cells to overexpress or knock down BCL11B expression, respectively. After BCL11B overexpression, the proliferation ability and the T-helper (Th) subset were increased, whereas no significant alteration in the expression pattern and clonality of the T-cell receptor Vβ subfamilies was observed. After BCL11B knockdown, a similar distribution of Vβ subfamilies was detected in the naive T cells; however, the proliferation capacity substantially decreased. Global gene expression profiling revealed that the dysregulated genes were mainly involved in T-cell activation and proliferation. BCL11B could selectively promote Th-cell differentiation because of increased CXCL10 and CXCL11 expression. BCL11B suppression may inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis, which may relate to changes in the expression of CFLAR-CASP8-CASP10 in the mitochondrial pathways. In conclusion, BCL11B is required for T-cell survival; its overexpression could effectively increase the T-cell activation and proliferation abilities and Th-cell differentiation as well.
BACKGROUND: COUP-TF interacting protein 2 [(Ctip2), also known as Bcl11b] is an important regulator of skin homeostasis, and is overexpressed in head and neck cancer. Ctip2(ep-/-) mice, selectively ablated for Ctip2 in epidermal keratinocytes, exhibited impaired terminal differentiation and delayed epidermal permeability barrier (EPB) establishment during development, similar to what was observed in Ctip2 null (Ctip2(-/-)) mice. Considering that as an important role of Ctip2, and the fact that molecular networks which underlie cancer progression partially overlap with those responsible for tissue remodeling, we sought to determine the role of Ctip2 during cutaneous wound healing.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Full thickness excisional wound healing experiments were performed on Ctip2(L2/L2) and Ctip2(ep-/-) animals per time point and used for harvesting samples for histology, immunohistochemistry (IHC) and immunoblotting. Results demonstrated inherent defects in proliferation and migration of Ctip2 lacking keratinocytes during re-epithelialization. Mutant mice exhibited reduced epidermal proliferation, delayed keratinocyte activation, altered cell-cell adhesion and impaired ECM development. Post wounding, Ctip2(ep-/-) mice wounds displayed lack of E-Cadherin suppression in the migratory tongue, insufficient expression of alpha smooth muscle actin (alpha SMA) in the dermis, and robust induction of K8. Importantly, dysregulated expression of several hair follicle (HF) stem cell markers such as K15, NFATc1, CD133, CD34 and Lrig1 was observed in mutant skin during wound repair.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Results confirm a cell autonomous role of keratinocytic Ctip2 to modulate cell migration, proliferation and/or differentiation, and to maintain HF stem cells during cutaneous wounding. Furthermore, Ctip2 in a non-cell autonomous manner regulated granulation tissue formation and tissue contraction during wound closure.
First insights into the molecular programs orchestrating the progression from neural stem cells to cortical projection neurons are emerging. Loss of the transcriptional regulator Ski has been linked to the human 1p36 deletion syndrome, which includes central nervous system defects. Here, we report critical roles for Ski in the maintenance of the neural stem cell pool and the specification of callosal neurons. Ski-deficient callosal neurons lose their identity and ectopically express the transcription factor Ctip2. The misspecified callosal neurons largely fail to form the corpus callosum and instead redirect their axons toward subcortical targets. We identify the chromatin-remodeling factor Satb2 as a partner of Ski, and show that both proteins are required for transcriptional repression of Ctip2 in callosal neurons. We propose a model in which Satb2 recruits Ski to the Ctip2 locus, and Ski attracts histone deacetylases, thereby enabling the formation of a functional nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase repressor complex. Our findings establish a central role for Ski-Satb2 interactions in regulating transcriptional mechanisms of callosal neuron specification.
V(D)J recombination of antigen receptor loci (IGH, IGK, IGL, TCRA, TCRB, TCRG, and TCRD) is an essential mechanism that confers enormous diversity to the mammalian immune system. However, there are now at least six examples of intrachromosomal interstitial deletions caused by aberrant V(D)J recombination between nonantigen receptor loci; five of out these six are associated with lymphoid malignancy. The SIL-SCL fusion and deletions of CDKN2A, IKZF1, Notch1, and Bcl11b are all associated with lymphoid malignancy. These interstitial deletions seem to be species specific, as the deletions seen in mice are not seen in humans; the converse is true as well. Nucleotide sequence analysis of these rearrangements reveals the hallmarks of V(D)J recombination, including site specificity near cryptic heptamer signal sequences, exonucleolytic "nibbling" at the junction site, and nontemplated "N"-region nucleotide insertion at the junction site. Two of these interstitial deletions (murine Notch1 and Bcl11b deletions) have been detected, at low frequency, in tissues from healthy mice with no evidence of malignancy, similar to the finding of chromosomal translocations in the peripheral blood or tonsils of healthy individuals. The contention that these are mediated via V(D)J recombination is strengthened by in vivo assays using extrachromosomal substrates, and chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequence analysis which shows Rag2 binding at the sites of rearrangement. Although the efficiency of these "illegitimate" recombination events is several orders of magnitude less than that at bona fide antigen receptor loci, the consequence of such deletions, namely activation of proto-oncogenes or deletion of tumor suppressor genes, is devastating, and a major cause for lymphoid malignancy.
The T-cell development program is specifically triggered by Notch-Delta signaling, but most transcription factors needed to establish T-cell lineage identity also have crossover roles in other hematopoietic lineages. This factor sharing complicates full definition of the core gene regulatory circuits required for T-cell specification. But new advances illuminate the roles of three of the most T-cell specific transcription factors. Commitment to the T-cell lineage is now shown to depend on Bcl11b, while initiation of the T-cell differentiation program begins earlier with the induction of TCF-1 (Tcf7 gene product) and GATA-3. Several reports now reveal how TCF-1 and GATA-3 are mobilized in early T cells and the pathways for their T-lineage specific effects.
In brain development, distinct types of migration, radial migration and tangential migration, are shown by excitatory and inhibitory neurons, respectively. Whether these two types of migration operate by similar cellular mechanisms remains unclear. We examined neuronal migration in mice deficient in mDia1 (also known as Diap1) and mDia3 (also known as Diap2), which encode the Rho-regulated actin nucleators mammalian diaphanous homolog 1 (mDia1) and mDia3. mDia deficiency impaired tangential migration of cortical and olfactory inhibitory interneurons, whereas radial migration and consequent layer formation of cortical excitatory neurons were unaffected. mDia-deficient neuroblasts exhibited reduced separation of the centrosome from the nucleus and retarded nuclear translocation. Concomitantly, anterograde F-actin movement and F-actin condensation at the rear, which occur during centrosomal and nuclear movement of wild-type cells, respectively, were impaired in mDia-deficient neuroblasts. Blockade of Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK), which regulates myosin II, also impaired nuclear translocation. These results suggest that Rho signaling via mDia and ROCK critically regulates nuclear translocation through F-actin dynamics in tangential migration, whereas this mechanism is dispensable in radial migration.
BCL11B is a C2H2 zinc finger transcription factor that acts as a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor. Mutations and deletion in the human orthologue BCL11B have been identified in human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) and a mouse model of thymic lymphomas. Bcl11b(KO/+)p53(KO/+) doubly heterozygous mice, but not Bcl11b(KO/+) heterozygous mice, spontaneously develop thymic lymphomas at a high frequency, suggesting cooperativity of BCL11B and p53 in cancer development. In this study, we have examined whether or not BCL11B directly affects the p53 signaling pathway including HDM2, a ubiquitin ligase for p53 degradation. The p53 pathway regulates cell proliferation and the response to DNA damages to maintain genome integrity. Here we show that BCL11B binds to human HDM2-P2 promoter by ChIP (chromatin immuno-precipitation) assay and inhibits HDM2 expression in a p53-dependent manner. Deletion of the distal p53 responsive element in HDM2 promoter region or the lack of p53 in HCT116 cells greatly reduced the repressive effect of BCL11B on HDM2-P2 promoter activity. The repressive activity was alleviated in γ-ray induced DNA damage conditions that activate p53, suggesting interaction between BCL11B and p53 for HDM2 expression. These date suggest that BCL11B affects the activity of the p53-HDM2 feedback loop in basal and irradiated conditions. This may be a mechanism underlying the leukemic transformation in T-ALL and in Bcl11b(KO/+)p53(KO/+) mouse thymocytes.
The transcription factors Satb2 (special AT-rich sequence binding protein 2) and Ctip2 (COUP-TF interacting protein 2) have been shown to be required for callosal and corticospinal axon growth respectively from subtypes of cerebral cortex projection neurons. In this study we investigated early stages of directed axon growth in the embryonic mouse cerebral cortex, and studied the possible correlation with the expression of Satb2 and Ctip2. Electroporation of an EYFP-expressing plasmid at embryonic day 13.5 to label developing projection neurons revealed that directed axon growth is first seen in radially migrating neurons in the intermediate zone (IZ), prior to migration into the cortical plate, as has been suggested previously. Onset of expression of SATB2 and CTIP2 was also observed in the IZ, correlating well with this stage of migration and initiation of axon growth. Immunohistochemical staining through embryonic and early postnatal development revealed a significant population of Satb2/Ctip2 co-expressing cells, while retrograde axon tracing from the corpus callosum at embryonic day 18.5 back-labelled many neurons with bi-directional axon processes. However, through retrograde tracing and simultaneous immunohistochemical staining we show that these bi-directional processes do not correlate with Satb2/Ctip2 co-expression. Our work shows that although expression of these transcription factors correlates well with the appearance of directed axon growth during cortical development, the transcriptional code underlying the bi-directional axonal projections of early neocortical neurons is not likely to be the result of Satb2/Ctip2 co-expression.
Laboratory mice have widely been used as tools for basic biological research and models for studying human diseases. With the advances of genetic engineering and conditional knockout (CKO) mice, we now understand hematopoiesis is a dynamic stepwise process starting from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) which are responsible for replenishing all blood cells. Transcriptional factors play important role in hematopoiesis. In this review we compile several studies on using genetic modified mice and humanized mice to study function of transcriptional factors in lymphopoiesis, including T lymphocyte and Natural killer (NK) cell development. Finally, we focused on the key transcriptional factor Bcl11b and its function in regulating T cell specification and commitment.
Development of the nervous system is finely regulated by consecutive expression of cell-specific transcription factors. Here we show that Helios, a member of the Ikaros transcription factor family, is expressed in ectodermal and neuroectodermal-derived tissues. During embryonic development, Helios is expressed by several brain structures including the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE, the striatal anlage); the cingulated, insular and retrosplenial cortex; the hippocampus; and the accessory olfactory bulb. Moreover, Helios is also expressed by Purkinje neurons during postnatal cerebellar development. Within the LGE, Helios expression follows a dynamic spatio-temporal pattern starting at embryonic stages (E14.5), peaking at E18.5, and completely disappearing during postnatal development. Helios is expressed by a small population of nestin-positive neural progenitor cells located in the subventricular zone as well as by a larger population of immature neurons distributed throughout the mantle zone. In the later, Helios is preferentially expressed in the matrix compartment, where it colocalizes with Bcl11b and Foxp1, well-known markers of striatal projection neurons. In addition, we observed that Helios expression is not detected in Dlx1/2 and Gsx2 null mutants, while its expression is maintained in Ascl1 mutants. These findings allow us to introduce a new transcription factor in the cascade of events that take part of striatal development postulating the existence of at least 4 different neural progenitors in the LGE. An Ascl1-independent but Gsx2- & Dlx1/2-dependent precursor will express Helios defining a new lineage for a subset of matrix striatal neurons.
BACKGROUND: Carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (CFPWV) is a heritable measure of aortic stiffness that is strongly associated with increased risk for major cardiovascular disease events.METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a meta-analysis of genome-wide association data in 9 community-based European ancestry cohorts consisting of 20 634 participants. Results were replicated in 2 additional European ancestry cohorts involving 5306 participants. Based on a preliminary analysis of 6 cohorts, we identified a locus on chromosome 14 in the 3'-BCL11B gene desert that is associated with CFPWV (rs7152623, minor allele frequency=0.42, β=-0.075±0.012 SD/allele, P=2.8×10(-10); replication β=-0.086±0.020 SD/allele, P=1.4×10(-6)). Combined results for rs7152623 from 11 cohorts gave β=-0.076±0.010 SD/allele, P=3.1×10(-15). The association persisted when adjusted for mean arterial pressure (β=-0.060±0.009 SD/allele, P=1.0×10(-11)). Results were consistent in younger (<55 years, 6 cohorts, n=13 914, β=-0.081±0.014 SD/allele, P=2.3×10(-9)) and older (9 cohorts, n=12 026, β=-0.061±0.014 SD/allele, P=9.4×10(-6)) participants. In separate meta-analyses, the locus was associated with increased risk for coronary artery disease (hazard ratio=1.05; confidence interval=1.02-1.08; P=0.0013) and heart failure (hazard ratio=1.10, CI=1.03-1.16, P=0.004).CONCLUSIONS: Common genetic variation in a locus in the BCL11B gene desert that is thought to harbor 1 or more gene enhancers is associated with higher CFPWV and increased risk for cardiovascular disease. Elucidation of the role this novel locus plays in aortic stiffness may facilitate development of therapeutic interventions that limit aortic stiffening and related cardiovascular disease events.
Erratum in    Nucleic Acids Res. . 2014 Apr;42(6):4141.
CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) is a master organizer of genome spatial organization and plays an important role in mediating extensive chromatin interactions. Circular chromosome conformation capture (4C) is a high-throughput approach that allows genome-wide screening for unknown potential interaction partners. Using a conserved CTCF binding site on the Bcl11b locus as bait, an interaction partner at the Arhgap6 locus on a different chromosome was identified by 4C. Additional experiments verified that the interchromatin interaction between the Bcl11b and Arhgap6 loci was cell-type specific, which was cooperatively mediated by CTCF and cohesin. Functional analysis showed that the interchromatin interaction partners were repressing regulatory elements. These results indicate that interaction chromatin loops regulate the expression of the relevant genes.
T lymphocytes, which are central players in orchestrating immune responses, consist of several subtypes with distinct functions. The thymus is an organ where hematopoietic progenitors undergo sequential developmental processes to give rise to this variety of T-cell subsets with diverse antigen specificity. In the periphery, naive T cells further differentiate into effector cells upon encountering antigens. There are several developmental checkpoints during T-cell development, where regulation by a combination of transcription factors imprints specific functional properties on precursors. The transcription factors E2A, GATA-binding protein 3 (Gata3) and RUNT-related transcription factor (Runx) are involved at various stages in the differentiation of double-negative thymocytes and in β-selection, as are transcription factors from the Notch signaling pathway; other transcription factors such as B-cell lymphoma/leukemia 11b (Bcl11b), myeloblastosis viral oncogene homolog (Myb) and inhibitor of DNA binding 3 (Id3) are involved at specific stages. Differentiation of T cells into helper versus cytotoxic cells involves not only antagonistic interplay between Runx and T(h) inducing POZ-Kruppel factor (ThPOK) but also complex interactions between MAZR, Gata3 and Myb in the activation and silencing of genes such as Cd4 and Cd8 as well as the gene that encodes ThPOK itself. A wide range of well-defined transcription factors, including signal transducer and activator of transcriptions (STATs), T-bet, Gata3, nuclear factor of activated T cell (NFAT), adaptor-related protein complex 1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), are known to shape T(h)1/T(h)2 differentiation. Runx and Gata3 also operate in this process, as do c-Maf and recombining binding protein for immunoglobulin Jκ region (RBP-J) and the chromatin-reorganizing protein special AT-rich sequence-binding protein 1 (SATB1). In this review, we briefly discuss how T-cell characteristics are acquired and become divergent from the point of view of transcriptional regulation.
B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 11B (Bcl11b) is a transcription factor showing predominant expression in the striatum. To date, there are no known gene targets of Bcl11b in the nervous system. Here, we define targets for Bcl11b in striatal cells by performing chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) in combination with genome-wide expression profiling. Transcriptome-wide analysis revealed that 694 genes were significantly altered in striatal cells over-expressing Bcl11b, including genes showing striatal-enriched expression similar to Bcl11b. ChIP-seq analysis demonstrated that Bcl11b bound a mixture of coding and non-coding sequences that were within 10 kb of the transcription start site of an annotated gene. Integrating all ChIP-seq hits with the microarray expression data, 248 direct targets of Bcl11b were identified. Functional analysis on the integrated gene target list identified several zinc-finger encoding genes as Bcl11b targets, and further revealed a significant association of Bcl11b to brain-derived neurotrophic factor/neurotrophin signaling. Analysis of ChIP-seq binding regions revealed significant consensus DNA binding motifs for Bcl11b. These data implicate Bcl11b as a novel regulator of the BDNF signaling pathway, which is disrupted in many neurological disorders. Specific targeting of the Bcl11b-DNA interaction could represent a novel therapeutic approach to lowering BDNF signaling specifically in striatal cells.
The BCL11B transcription factor is required for normal T-cell development, and has recently been implicated in the pathogenesis of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) induced by TLX overexpression or Atm deficiency. To comprehensively assess the contribution of BCL11B inactivation to human T-ALL, we performed DNA copy number and sequencing analyses of T-ALL diagnostic specimens, revealing monoallelic BCL11B deletions or missense mutations in 9% (n = 10 of 117) of cases. Structural homology modeling revealed that several of the BCL11B mutations disrupted the structure of zinc finger domains required for this transcription factor to bind DNA. BCL11B haploinsufficiency occurred across each of the major molecular subtypes of T-ALL, including early T-cell precursor, HOXA-positive, LEF1-inactivated, and TAL1-positive subtypes, which have differentiation arrest at diverse stages of thymocyte development. Our findings provide compelling evidence that BCL11B is a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor that collaborates with all major T-ALL oncogenic lesions in human thymocyte transformation.
Dysregulated CD4(+) T cell responses and alterations in T regulatory cells (T(reg) cells) play a critical role in autoimmune diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The current study demonstrates that removal of Bcl11b at the double-positive stage of T cell development or only in T(reg) cells causes IBD because of proinflammatory cytokine-producing CD4(+) T cells infiltrating the colon. Provision of WT T(reg) cells prevented IBD, demonstrating that alterations in T(reg) cells are responsible for the disease. Furthermore, Bcl11b-deficient T(reg) cells had reduced suppressor activity with altered gene expression profiles, including reduced expression of the genes encoding Foxp3 and IL-10, and up-regulation of genes encoding proinflammatory cytokines. Additionally, the absence of Bcl11b altered the induction of Foxp3 expression and reduced the generation of induced T(reg) cells (iT(reg) cells) after Tgf-β treatment of conventional CD4(+) T cells. Bcl11b bound to Foxp3 and IL-10 promoters, as well as to critical conserved noncoding sequences within the Foxp3 and IL-10 loci, and mutating the Bcl11b binding site in the Foxp3 promoter reduced expression of a luciferase reporter gene. These experiments demonstrate that Bcl11b is indispensable for T(reg) suppressor function and for maintenance of optimal Foxp3 and IL-10 gene expression, as well as for the induction of Foxp3 expression in conventional CD4(+) T cells in response to Tgf-β and generation of iT(reg) cells.
A defective skin epidermal permeability barrier (EPB) is responsible for a high mortality rate in premature infants and is an important risk factor in inflammatory skin diseases such as eczema. We report here fast and accurate methods for measurement of EPB in animal models or in human patients using simple techniques that monitor diffusion of dyes (X-Gal or Lucifer Yellow) through the upper epidermis and measure transepidermal water loss (TEWL) resulting from a defective skin barrier. Accurate diagnosis and early detection of EPB defects in human patients are critical for effective treatment of certain classes of inflammatory skin diseases.
The vertebrate thymus provides an inductive environment for T-cell development. Within the mouse thymus, Notch signals are indispensable for imposing the T-cell fate on multipotential haematopoietic progenitors, but the downstream effectors that impart T-lineage specification and commitment are not well understood. Here we show that a transcription factor, T-cell factor 1 (TCF-1; also known as transcription factor 7, T-cell specific, TCF7), is a critical regulator in T-cell specification. TCF-1 is highly expressed in the earliest thymic progenitors, and its expression is upregulated by Notch signals. Most importantly, when TCF-1 is forcibly expressed in bone marrow (BM) progenitors, it drives the development of T-lineage cells in the absence of T-inductive Notch1 signals. Further characterization of these TCF-1-induced cells revealed expression of many T-lineage genes, including T-cell-specific transcription factors Gata3 and Bcl11b, and components of the T-cell receptor. Our data suggest a model where Notch signals induce TCF-1, and TCF-1 in turn imprints the T-cell fate by upregulating expression of T-cell essential genes.
BCL11B/CTIP2 zinc-finger transcription factor is expressed in various types of cells in many different tissues. This study showed that BCL11B is expressed in the nucleus of the outer hair cells of the mouse cochlea, degeneration of which is known to cause deafness and presbycusis or age-related hearing loss (AHL). We tested whether or not Bcl11b heterozygosity would affect AHL in mice. Analysis of auditory brainstem responses revealed AHL in Bcl11b (+/-) heterozygous, but not wild-type, mice, which was evident as early as 3 months after birth. Histological abnormalities were observed in the outer hair cells of the Bcl11b (+/-) mice at 6 months of age with hearing loss. These results suggest that the AHL observed in Bcl11b (+/-) mice is the result of impairment of the outer hair cells and that BCL11B activity is required for the maintenance of outer hair cells and normal hearing.
To screen the highly efficient and specific B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) small interfering RNA (siRNA) which are able to downregulate the BCL11B gene expression in human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, thereby inhibiting the leukemic T-cell proliferation and inducing apoptosis, four BCL11B-siRNAs and the scrambled non-silencing siRNA control (sc) were designed and obtained by chemosynthesis. After nucleofection, BCL11B expression in the mRNA and the protein levels were measured by qRT-PCR and immunoblotting, respectively. The biological consequences based on the highly efficient and specific BCL11B-siRNA were demonstrated by CCK-8 kit, morphological changes (Hoechst 33258 staining), high-resolution imaging, and flow cytometry. Reduction in the BCL11B mRNA level was observed at 24 or 48 hours in molt-4 T cells with BCL11B-935-siRNA, BCL11B-434-siRNA, or BCL11B-748-siRNA, respectively. BCL11B protein expression levels were reduced by 34·77% and 41·73% in the BCL11B-935-siRNA- and BCL11B-434-siRNA-treated cells, compared with the control level at 72 hours. In comparison with BCL11B-434-siRNA treatment group, the Molt-4 cells transfected with the BCL11B-935-siRNA showed significantly inhibited proliferation and effectively induced apoptosis (P<0·05). When highly efficient and specific BCL11B-935-siRNA was used to analyze the inhibition of BCL11B mRNA level in primary T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells, similar result was obtained. In conclusion, siRNAs targeting the different exon domains resulted in different silencing effects and biological consequences. Suppression of BCL11B by RNA interference could inhibit the proliferation and induce the apoptosis effectively in leukemic T cells, which might be considered as a new target therapeutic strategy in T-cell malignancies.
Comment in    J Neurosci. 2011 Dec 7;31(49):17761-3.
BACKGROUND: Downregulation of the B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/lymphoma11B (BCL11B) gene by small interfering RNA (siRNA) leads to growth inhibition and apoptosis of the human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cell line Molt-4. To further characterize the molecular mechanism, a global gene expression profile of BCL11B-siRNA -treated Molt-4 cells was established. The expression profiles of several genes were further validated in the BCL11B-siRNA -treated Molt-4 cells and primary T-ALL cells.RESULTS: 142 genes were found to be upregulated and 109 genes downregulated in the BCL11B-siRNA -treated Molt-4 cells by microarray analysis. Among apoptosis-related genes, three pro-apoptotic genes, TNFSF10, BIK, BNIP3, were upregulated and one anti-apoptotic gene, BCL2L1 was downregulated. Moreover, the expression of SPP1 and CREBBP genes involved in the transforming growth factor (TGF-β) pathway was down 16-fold. Expression levels of TNFSF10, BCL2L1, SPP1, and CREBBP were also examined by real-time PCR. A similar expression pattern of TNFSF10, BCL2L1, and SPP1 was identified. However, CREBBP was not downregulated in the BLC11B-siRNA -treated Molt-4 cells.CONCLUSION: BCL11B-siRNA treatment altered expression profiles of TNFSF10, BCL2L1, and SPP1 in both Molt-4 T cell line and primary T-ALL cells.
Gli3, one of three vertebrate Gli transcription factors in Hedgehog (Hh) pathway, is processed into a repressor form (Gli3R) in the absence of Hh signal and acts as the major negative transducer of the pathway. Although the role of Gli3 in embryonic patterning has been extensively studied, its role in cortical neurogenesis, especially in the regulation of neural progenitors in proliferation and cell fate specification, is largely unknown. To bypass the patterning defects caused by loss of Gli3, we conditionally deleted Gli3 after patterning was complete in mouse. Our results from birthdating and in utero electroporation experiments demonstrate that the Gli3, specifically Gli3R, is critical for specifying the fate of cortical neurons that are generated following a stereotypical temporal order. Moreover, Gli3 is required for maintaining the cortical progenitors in active cell cycle, suggesting that cells may acquire differentiated status as they turn off Gli3 expression during neurogenesis.
Invariant natural killer T cells (iNKT cells) are innate-like T cells important in immune regulation, antimicrobial protection, and anti-tumor responses. They express semi-invariant T cell receptors, which recognize glycolipid antigens. Their positive selection is mediated by double-positive (DP) thymocytes, which present glycolipid self-antigens through the noncanonical MHC class I-like molecule CD1d. Here we provide genetic and biochemical evidence that removal of the transcription factor Bcl11b in DP thymocytes leads to an early block in iNKT cell development, caused by both iNKT cell extrinsic and intrinsic defects. Specifically, Bcl11b-deficient DP thymocytes failed to support Bcl11b-sufficient iNKT precursor development due to defective glycolipid self-antigen presentation, and showed enlarged lysosomes and accumulation of glycosphingolipids. Expression of genes encoding lysosomal proteins with roles in sphingolipid metabolism and glycolipid presentation was found to be altered in Bcl11b-deficient DP thymocytes. These include cathepsins and Niemann-Pick disease type A, B, and C genes. Thus, Bcl11b plays a central role in presentation of glycolipid self-antigens by DP thymocytes, and regulates directly or indirectly expression of lysosomal genes, exerting a critical extrinsic role in development of iNKT lineage, in addition to the intrinsic role in iNKT precursors. These studies demonstrate a unique and previously undescribed role of Bcl11b in DP thymocytes, in addition to the critical function in positive selection of conventional CD4 and CD8 single-positive thymocytes.
During early telencephalic development, the major portion of the ventral telencephalic (subpallial) region becomes subdivided into three regions, the lateral (LGE), medial (MGE), and caudal (CGE) ganglionic eminences. In this study, we systematically recapitulated subpallial patterning in mouse embryonic stem cell (ESC) cultures and investigated temporal and combinatory actions of patterning signals. In serum-free floating culture, the dorsal-ventral specification of ESC-derived telencephalic neuroectoderm is dose-dependently directed by Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling. Early Shh treatment, even before the expression onset of Foxg1 (also Bf1; earliest marker of the telencephalic lineage), is critical for efficiently generating LGE progenitors, and continuous Shh signaling until day 9 is necessary to commit these cells to the LGE lineage. When induced under these conditions and purified by fluorescence-activated cell sorter, telencephalic cells efficiently differentiated into Nolz1(+)/Ctip2(+) LGE neuronal precursors and subsequently, both in culture and after in vivo grafting, into DARPP32(+) medium-sized spiny neurons. Purified telencephalic progenitors treated with high doses of the Hedgehog (Hh) agonist SAG (Smoothened agonist) differentiated into MGE- and CGE-like tissues. Interestingly, in addition to strong Hh signaling, the efficient specification of MGE cells requires Fgf8 signaling but is inhibited by treatment with Fgf15/19. In contrast, CGE differentiation is promoted by Fgf15/19 but suppressed by Fgf8, suggesting that specific Fgf signals play different, critical roles in the positional specification of ESC-derived ventral subpallial tissues. We discuss a model of the antagonistic Fgf8 and Fgf15/19 signaling in rostral-caudal subpallial patterning and compare it with the roles of these molecules in cortical patterning.
The molecular mechanisms regulating fate divergence of closely related, but distinct, layer 6 corticothalamic and layer 5 subcerebral projection neurons are largely unknown. We present evidence for central transcriptional mechanisms that regulate fate specification of corticothalamic (layer 6) and subcerebral (layer 5) projection neurons. We found that TBR1 promotes the identity of corticothalamic neurons and represses subcerebral fates through reducing expression of Fezf2 and CTIP2. These conclusions are based on the following: (1) In Tbr1(-/-) mice, the number of cells expressing layer 6 markers was reduced, and the number of cells expressing layer 5 markers was increased. Early-born (birthdated on E11.5) neurons ectopically expressed subcerebral neuronal markers, and extended their axons into subcerebral targets. (2) Ectopic Tbr1 expression in layer 5 neurons prevented them from extending axons into the brainstem and the spinal cord. (3) Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis using TBR1 antibodies showed that TBR1 bound to a conserved region in the Fezf2 gene. (4) Analysis of Fezf2 mutants and Tbr1(-/-); Fezf2(-/-) compound mutants provided evidence that Fezf2 blocks corticothalamic fate in layer 5 by reducing Tbr1 expression in subcerebral neurons. All neocortical regions appear to use this core transcriptional program to specify corticothalamic (layer 6) and subcerebral (layer 5) projection neurons.
Acute bilineal leukemias are rare and are commonly associated with t(9;22) and MLL abnormalities. Herein, we report a pediatric case of bilineal T/myeloid acute leukemia associated with del (9q)(q13q22) and TLX3/BCL11B fusion due to the cryptic t(5;14)(q35;32). FISH studies confirmed the TLX3/BCL11B fusion in both the myeloid and lymphoid blasts, while the 9q deletion was restricted to the lymphoid component. Optimal therapy for such patients remains controversial and it is not clear if they should be treated with ALL or AML-based chemotherapeutic regimens. Our patient has been in extended remission following ALL-based chemotherapy and a matched unrelated cord blood transplant. Inc.
Early thymocytes possess multilineage potential, which is progressively restricted as cells transit through the double-negative stages of T-cell development. DN1 cells retain the ability to become natural killer cells, dendritic cells, B cells, and myeloid cells as well as T cells, but these options are lost by the DN3 stage. The Notch1 signaling pathway is indispensable for initiation of the T-cell lineage and inhibitory for the B-cell lineage, but the regulatory mechanisms by which the T-cell fate is locked in are largely undefined. Previously, we discovered that the E-protein transcription factor HEBAlt promoted T-cell specification. Here, we report that HEB(-/-) T-cell precursors have compromised Notch1 function and lose T-cell potential. Moreover, reconstituting HEB(-/-) precursors with Notch1 activity enforced fidelity to the T-cell fate. However, instead of becoming B cells, HEB(-/-) DN3 cells adopted a DN1-like phenotype and could be induced to differentiate into thymic NK cells. HEB(-/-) DN1-like cells retained GATA3 and Id2 expression but had lower levels of the Bcl11b gene, a Notch target gene. Therefore, our studies have revealed a new set of interactions between HEB, Notch1, and GATA3 that regulate the T-cell fate choice in developing thymocytes.
BACKGROUND: In a human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cell line (Molt-4), siRNA-mediated suppression of BCL11B expression was shown to inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis, functions which may be related to genes involved in apoptosis (such as TNFSF10 and BCL2L1) and TGF-β pathways (such as SPP1and CREBBP).METHODS: The expression levels of the above mentioned genes and their correlation with the BCL11B gene were analyzed in patients with T-ALL using the TaqMan and SYBR Green I real-time polymerase chain reaction technique.RESULTS: Expression levels of BCL11B, BCL2L1, and CREBBP mRNA in T-ALL patients were significantly higher than those from healthy controls (P<0.05). In T-ALL patients, the BCL11B expression level was negatively correlated with the BCL2L1 expression level (rs=-0.700; P<0.05), and positively correlated with the SPP1 expression level (rs=0.683; P<0.05). In healthy controls, the BCL11B expression level did not correlate with the TNFSF10, BCL2L1, SPP1, or CREBBP expression levels.CONCLUSIONS: Over-expression of BCL11B might play a role in anti-apoptosis in T-ALL cells through up-regulation of its downstream genes BCL2L1 and CREBBP.
Cortical efferents growing in the same environment diverge early in development. The expression of particular transcription factors dictates the trajectories taken, presumably by regulating responsiveness to guidance cues via cellular mechanisms that are not yet known. Here, we show that cortical neurons that are dissociated and grown in culture maintain their cell type-specific identities defined by the expression of transcription factors. Using this model system, we sought to identify and characterize mechanisms that are recruited to produce cell type-specific responses to Semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), a guidance cue that would be presented similarly to cortical axons in vivo. Axons from presumptive corticofugal neurons lacking the transcription factor Satb2 and expressing Ctip2 or Tbr1 respond far more robustly to Sema3A than those from presumptive callosal neurons expressing Satb2. Both populations of axons express similar levels of Sema3A receptors (neuropilin-1, cell adhesion molecule L1, and plexinA4), but significantly, axons from neurons lacking Satb2 internalize more Sema3A, and they do so via a raft-mediated endocytic pathway. We used an in silico approach to identify the endocytosis effector flotillin-1 as a Sema3A signaling candidate. We tested the contributions of flotillin-1 to Sema3A endocytosis and signaling, and show that raft-mediated Sema3A endocytosis is defined by and depends on the recruitment of flotillin-1, which mediates LIM domain kinase activation and regulates axon responsiveness to Sema3A in presumptive corticofugal axons.
Developing neocortical progenitors express transcription factors in gradients that induce programs of region-specific gene expression. Our previous work identified anteriorly upregulated expression gradients of a number of corticofugal neuron-associated gene probe sets along the anterior-posterior axis of the human neocortex (8-12 postconceptional weeks [PCW]). Here, we demonstrate by real-time polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry that 3 such genes, ROBO1, SRGAP1, and CTIP2 are highly expressed anteriorly between 8-12 PCW, in comparison with other genes (FEZF2, SOX5) expressed by Layer V, VI, and subplate neurons. All 3 were prominently expressed by early postmitotic neurons in the subventricular zone, intermediate zone, and cortical plate (CP) from 8 to 10 PCW. Between 12 and 15 PCW expression patterns for ER81 and SATB2 (Layer V), TBR1 (Layer V/VI) and NURR1 (Layer VI) revealed Layer V forming. By 15 PCW, ROBO1 and SRGAP1 expression was confined to Layer V, whereas CTIP2 was expressed throughout the CP anteriorly. We observed ROBO1 and SRGAP1 immunoreactivity in medullary corticospinal axons from 11 PCW onward. Thus, we propose that the coexpression of these 3 markers in the anterior neocortex may mark the early location of the human motor cortex, including its corticospinal projection neurons, allowing further study of their early differentiation.
Comment in    Ann Neurol. 2010 Oct;68(4):421-3.
Comment in    Nat Med. 2010 Nov;16(11):1185-6.
T-cell development from stem cells has provided a highly accessible and detailed view of the regulatory processes that can go into the choice of a cell fate in a postembryonic, stem cell-based system. But it has been a view from the outside. The problems in understanding the regulatory basis for this lineage choice begin with the fact that too many transcription factors are needed to provide crucial input: without any one of them, T-cell development fails. Furthermore, almost all the factors known to provide crucial functions during the climax of T-lineage commitment itself are also vital for earlier functions that establish the pool of multilineage precursors that would normally feed into the T-cell specification process. When the regulatory genes that encode them are mutated, the confounding effects on earlier stages make it difficult to dissect T-cell specification genetically. Yet both the positive and the negative regulatory events involved in the choice of a T-cell fate are actually a mosaic of distinct functions. New evidence has emerged recently that finally provides a way to separate the major components that fit together to drive this process. Here, we review insights into T-cell specification and commitment that emerge from a combination of molecular, cellular, and systems biology approaches. The results reveal the regulatory structure underlying this lineage decision.
T-cell development primarily occurs in the thymus and involves in the interactions of many important transcription factors. Until recently, no single transcription factor has been identified to be essential for T-cell lineage commitment or maintenance of T-cell identity. Recent studies have now identified the zinc finger transcription factor Bcl11b to be essential for T-cell development and for maintenance of T-cell identity. Remarkably, T cells acquire NK cell properties upon Bcl11b deletion. These reprogrammed cells have unique properties in proliferation, cytokine dependency and killing target cells, and may therefore provide a new cell source for some cell-based therapies.
Transcription regulatory genes are crucial modulators of cell physiology and metabolism whose intracellular levels are tightly controlled in response to extracellular stimuli. We previously reported a set of 29 transcription regulatory genes modulated by angiotensin II in H295R human adrenocortical cells and their roles in regulating the expression of the last and unique enzymes of the glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid biosynthetic pathways, 11β-hydroxylase and aldosterone synthase, respectively, using gene expression reporter assays. To study the effect of this set of transcription regulatory genes on adrenal steroidogenesis, H295R cells were transfected by high-efficiency nucleofection and aldosterone and cortisol were measured in cell culture supernatants under basal and angiotensin II-stimulated conditions. BCL11B, BHLHB2, CITED2, ELL2, HMGA1, MAFF, NFIL3, PER1, SERTAD1, and VDR significantly stimulated aldosterone secretion, while EGR1, FOSB, and ZFP295 decreased aldosterone secretion. BTG2, HMGA1, MITF, NR4A1, and ZFP295 significantly increased cortisol secretion, while BCL11B, NFIL3, PER1, and SIX2 decreased cortisol secretion. We also report the effect of some of these regulators on the expression of endogenous aldosterone synthase and 11β-hydroxylase under basal and angiotensin II-stimulated conditions. In summary, this study reports for the first time the effects of a set of angiotensin II-modulated transcription regulatory genes on aldosterone and cortisol secretion and the expression levels of the last and unique enzymes of the mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid biosynthetic pathways. Abnormal regulation of mineralocorticoid or glucocorticoid secretion is involved in several pathophysiological conditions. These transcription regulatory genes may be involved in adrenal steroidogenesis pathologies; thus they merit additional study as potential candidates for therapeutic intervention.
BACKGROUND: The expression of BCL11B was reported in T-cells, neurons and keratinocytes. Aberrations of BCL11B locus leading to abnormal gene transcription were identified in human hematological disorders and corresponding animal models. Recently, the elevated levels of Bcl11b protein have been described in a subset of squameous cell carcinoma cases. Despite the rapidly accumulating knowledge concerning Bcl11b biology, the contribution of this protein to normal or transformed cell homeostasis remains open.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here, by employing an overexpression strategy we revealed formerly unidentified features of Bcl11b. Two different T-cell lines were forced to express BCL11B at levels similar to those observed in primary T-cell leukemias. This resulted in markedly increased resistance to radiomimetic drugs while no influence on death-receptor apoptotic pathway was observed. Apoptosis resistance triggered by BCL11B overexpression was accompanied by a cell cycle delay caused by accumulation of cells at G1. This cell cycle restriction was associated with upregulation of CDKN1C (p57) and CDKN2C (p18) cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors. Moreover, p27 and p130 proteins accumulated and the SKP2 gene encoding a protein of the ubiquitin-binding complex responsible for their degradation was repressed. Furthermore, the expression of the MYCN oncogene was silenced which resulted in significant depletion of the protein in cells expressing high BCL11B levels. Both cell cycle restriction and resistance to DNA-damage-induced apoptosis coincided and required the histone deacetylase binding N-terminal domain of Bcl11b. The sensitivity to genotoxic stress could be restored by the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatine A.CONCLUSIONS: The data presented here suggest a potential role of BCL11B in tumor survival and encourage developing Bcl11b-inhibitory approaches as a potential tool to specifically target chemoresistant tumor cells.
Detection of transcription factors in immune cell populations, particularly in subpopulations that are represented at low frequencies in lymphoid and nonlymphoid organs, presents a particular challenge when using traditional methods such as western blot analysis. Therefore, development of flow cytometry-based methods which allow identification of transcription factors in specific immune cell populations is of main interest. Here we developed and optimized a methodology for rapid and convenient detection of the transcription factor BCL11B in T lymphocyte subpopulations using flow cytometry. The optimal protocol employs saponin and Tween 20 both during the fixation and permeabilization steps, and we demonstrate that it is efficient for three anti-BCL11B antibodies covering distinctive BCL11B epitopes. In addition, we prove that the method preserves the staining of surface markers.
Thymocytes after T-lineage commitment develop in the T-cell pathway. However, in a recent study, Li et al. (2010) demonstrated that inducing to delete Bcl11b gene in these thymocytes, even in mature T cells turns these cells into natural killer (NK) cells during the culture. They called this conversion 'reprogramming', and the reprogrammed killer cells 'ITNK cells'. The ITNK cells possessed tumor-killer ability and did not indiscriminately kill normal cells. This exciting finding represents a major breakthrough towards curing cancer and identifies an important, novel transcription factor in the thymus development.
CD8(+) T lymphocytes mediate the immune response to viruses, intracellular bacteria, protozoan parasites, and tumors. We provide evidence that the transcription factor Bcl11b/Ctip2 controls hallmark features of CD8(+) T cell immunity, specifically antigen (Ag)-dependent clonal expansion and cytolytic activity. The reduced clonal expansion in the absence of Bcl11b was caused by altered proliferation during the expansion phase, with survival remaining unaffected. Two genes with critical roles in TCR signaling were deregulated in Bcl11b-deficient CD8(+) T cells, CD8 coreceptor and Plcgamma1, both of which may contribute to the impaired responsiveness. Bcl11b was found to bind the E8I, E8IV, and E8V, but not E8II or E8III, enhancers. Thus, Bcl11b is one of the transcription factors implicated in the maintenance of optimal CD8 coreceptor expression in peripheral CD8(+) T cells through association with specific enhancers. Short-lived Klrg1(hi)CD127(lo) effector CD8(+) T cells were formed during the course of infection in the absence of Bcl11b, albeit in smaller numbers, and their Ag-specific cytolytic activity on a per-cell basis was altered, which was associated with reduced granzyme B and perforin.
Comment in    Science. 2010 Jul 2;329(5987):44-5.
Comment in    Science. 2010 Jul 2;329(5987):44-5.
Comment on    Science. 2010 Jul 2;329(5987):85-9.    Science. 2010 Jul 2;329(5987):89-93.    Science. 2010 Jul 2;329(5987):93-6.
The division of the neocortex into functional areas (the cortical map) differs little between individuals, although brain lesions in development can lead to substantial re-organization of regional identity. We are studying how the cortical map is established in the human brain as a first step towards understanding this plasticity. Previous work on rodent development has identified certain transcription factors (e.g. Pax6, Emx2) expressed in gradients across the neocortex that appear to control regional expression of cell adhesion molecules and organization of area-specific thalamocortical afferent projections. Although mechanisms may be shared, the human neocortex is composed of different and more complex local area identities. Using Affymetrix gene chips of human foetal brain tissue from 8 to 12.5 post-conceptional weeks [PCW, equivalent to Carnegie stage (CS) 23, to Foetal stage (F) 4], human material obtained from the MRC-Wellcome Trust Human Developmental Biology Resource (http://www.hdbr.org), we have identified a number of genes that exhibit gradients along the anterior-posterior axis of the neocortex. Gene probe sets that were found to be upregulated posteriorally compared to anteriorally, included EMX2, COUPTFI and FGF receptor 3, and those upregulated anteriorally included cell adhesion molecules such as cadherins and protocadherins, as well as potential motor cortex markers and frontal markers (e.g. CNTNAP2, PCDH17, ROBO1, and CTIP2). Confirmation of graded expression for a subset of these genes was carried out using real-time PCR. Furthermore, we have established a dissociation cell culture model utilizing tissue dissected from anteriorally or posteriorally derived developing human neocortex that exhibits similar gradients of expression of these genes for at least 72 h in culture.
Bcl11b is a transcription factor that, within the hematopoietic system, is expressed specifically in T cells. Although Bcl11b is required for T-cell differentiation in newborn Bcl11b-null mice, and for positive selection in the adult thymus of mice bearing a T-cell-targeted deletion, the gene network regulated by Bcl11b in T cells is unclear. We report herein that Bcl11b is a bifunctional transcriptional regulator, which is required for the correct expression of approximately 1000 genes in CD4(+)CD8(+)CD3(lo) double-positive (DP) thymocytes. Bcl11b-deficient DP cells displayed a gene expression program associated with mature CD4(+)CD8(-) and CD4(-)CD8(+) single-positive (SP) thymocytes, including upregulation of key transcriptional regulators, such as Zbtb7b and Runx3. Bcl11b interacted with regulatory regions of many dysregulated genes, suggesting a direct role in the transcriptional regulation of these genes. However, inappropriate expression of lineage-associated genes did not result in enhanced differentiation, as deletion of Bcl11b in DP cells prevented development of SP thymocytes, and that of canonical NKT cells. These data establish Bcl11b as a crucial transcriptional regulator in thymocytes, in which Bcl11b functions to prevent the premature expression of genes fundamental to the SP and NKT cell differentiation programs.
Comment in    Science. 2010 Jul 2;329(5987):44-5.    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2010 Sep;7(9):483.
The Bcl11b protein was shown to be important for a variety of functions such as T cell differentiation, normal development of central nervous system, and DNA damage response. Malignant T cells undergo apoptotic cell death upon BCL11B down-regulation, however, the detailed mechanism of cell death is not fully understood yet. Here we employed two-dimensional difference in-gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE), mass spectrometry and cell biological experiments to investigate the role of Bcl11b in malignant T cell lines such as Jurkat and huT78. We provide evidence for the involvement of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway and observed cleavage and fragments of known caspase targets such as myosin, spectrin, and vimentin. Our findings suggest an involvement of ERM proteins, which were up-regulated and phosphorylated upon Bcl11b down-regulation. Moreover, the levels of several proteins implicated in cell cycle entry, including DUT-N, CDK6, MCM4, MCM6, and MAT1 were elevated. Thus, the proteome data presented here confirm previous findings concerning the consequences of BCL11B knock-down and provide new insight into the mechanisms of cell death and cell cycle disturbances induced by Bcl11b depletion.
We performed a genome-wide analysis of aberrant DNA methylation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) using methylated CpG island amplification (MCA) coupled with a promoter microarray. We identified 280 potential targets of aberrant DNA methylation in CLL. These genes were located more frequently in chromosomes 19 (16%, p=0.001), 16 (11%, p=0.001), 17 (10%, p=0.02) and 11 (9%, p=0.02) and could be grouped in several functional networks. Methylation status was confirmed for 22 of these genes (SOX11, DLX1, FAM62C, SOX14, RSPO1, ADCY5, HAND2,SPOCK, MLL, ING1, PRIMA1, BCL11B, LTBP2, BNC1, NR2F2, SALL1, GALGT2, LHX1, DLX4, KLK10, TFAP2 and APP) in 78 CLL patients by pyrosequencing. As a proof of principle, we analyzed the expression of 2 genes, PRIMA1 and APP, in primary cells and of GALGT2, TFAP2C and PRIMA1 in leukemia cells. There was an inverse association between methylation and gene expression. This could be reversed by treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine in cell lines. Treatment in a clinical trial with 5-azacitidine resulted in decreased methylation of LINE, DLX4 and SALL1 in the peripheral blood B-cells of patients with CLL. IgVH mutational status or ZAP-70 expression were not associated with specific methylation profiles. By multivariate analysis, methylation of LINE and APP was associated with shorter overall survival (p = 0.045 and 0.0035, respectively). This study demonstrates that aberrant DNA methylation is common and has potential prognostic and therapeutic value in CLL.
PURPOSE: To characterize, in the setting of gamma-ray-induced atrophic thymus, probable prelymphoma cells showing clonal growth and changes in signaling, including DNA damage checkpoint.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A total of 111 and 45 mouse atrophic thymuses at 40 and 80 days, respectively, after gamma-irradiation were analyzed with polymerase chain reaction for D-J rearrangements at the TCRbeta locus, flow cytometry for cell cycle, and Western blotting for the activation of DNA damage checkpoints.RESULTS: Limited D-J rearrangement patterns distinct from normal thymus were detected at high frequencies (43 of 111 for 40-day thymus and 21 of 45 for 80-day thymus). Those clonally expanded thymocytes mostly consisted of CD4(+)CD8(+) double-positive cells, indicating the retention of lineage capability. They exhibited pausing at a late G1 phase of cell cycle progression but did not show the activation of DNA damage checkpoints such as gammaH2AX, Chk1/2, or p53. Of interest is that 17 of the 52 thymuses showing normal D-J rearrangement patterns at 40 days after irradiation showed allelic loss at the Bcl11b tumor suppressor locus, also indicating clonal expansion.CONCLUSION: The thymocytes of clonal growth detected resemble human chronic myeloid leukemia in possessing self-renewal and lineage capability, and therefore they can be a candidate of the lymphoma-initiating cells.
Bcl11b encodes a zinc-finger transcription factor and functions as a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor gene. Bcl11b(KO/KO) mice exhibit differentiation arrest of thymocytes during beta-selection as has been observed with other mouse models involving knockouts of genes in the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. Recurrent chromosomal rearrangement at the BCL11B locus occurs in human T-cell leukemias, but it is not clear how such rearrangement would contribute to lymphomagenesis. To address this issue, we studied clonal cell growth, cell number, and differentiation of thymocytes in Bcl11b(KO/+) mice at different time points following gamma-irradiation. Analysis of D-J rearrangement at the T cell receptor beta-chain (TCRbeta) locus and cell surface markers by flow cytometry revealed two distinct populations of clonally growing thymocytes. In one population, thymocytes share a common D-J rearrangement but retain the capacity to differentiate. In contrast, thymocytes in the second population have lost their ability to differentiate. Since the capacity to self renew and differentiate into multiple cell lineages are fundamental properties of adult stem cells, the differentiation competent population of thymocytes that we have isolated could potentially function as cancer stem cells. We also demonstrate increased expression of beta-catenin, a well-known oncogenic protein, in Bcl11b(KO/+) thymocytes. Collectively, the Bcl11b(KO/+) genotype contributes to clonal expansion and differentiation arrest in part through an increase in the level of beta-catenin.
Expression of the transcriptional repressor Zbtb20 is confined to the hippocampal primordium of the developing dorsal midline cortex in mice. Here, we show that misexpression of Zbtb20 converts projection neurons of the subiculum and postsubiculum (dorsal presubiculum) to CA1 pyramidal neurons that are innervated by Schaffer collateral projections in ectopic strata oriens and radiatum. The Zbtb20-transformed neurons express Bcl11B, Satb2, and Calbindin-D28k, which are markers of adult CA1 pyramidal neurons. Downregulation of Zbtb20 expression by RNA interference impairs the normal maturation of CA1 pyramidal neurons resulting in deficiencies in Calbindin-D28k expression and in reduced apical dendritic arborizations in stratum lacunosum moleculare. Overall, the results show that Zbtb20 is required for various aspects of CA1 pyramidal neuron development such as the postnatal extension of apical dendritic arbors in the distal target zone and the subtype differentiation of Calbindin-D28k-positive subsets. They further suggest that Zbtb20 plays a role in arealization of the midline cortex.
Reelin regulates radial migration of the projection neurons in the developing cerebral cortex by inducing tyrosine phosphorylation of an intracellular adaptor protein, Disabled-1 (Dab1), through activation of Src family tyrosine kinases (SFKs). Five tyrosine residues of Dab1 (Y185, Y198, Y200, Y220, and Y232) are capable of being phosphorylated by SFKs. Among them, phosphorylation of Y198, Y220, and Y232 has been demonstrated after Reelin stimulation, and Y185 has been suggested to be an additional Reelin-induced phosphorylation site. In this study we established a reconstitution system in which a migratory defect in the cortex of Dab1-deficient mice is rescued by transfection with a wild-type Dab1 gene. The transfected neurons in the mutant cortex migrated radially and split the superficial preplate into the marginal zone and subplate by a mechanism that depended on interaction between Dab1 and Reelin receptors. Although this migration rescue was also observed in the mutant cortex transfected with a Dab1 gene containing a single substitution at Y198 by phenylalanine (Y198F), Y220F, Y232F, both of the Y185F and Y200F (Y185F/Y200F), Y185F/Y220F, Y185F/Y232F, Y198F/Y220F, or Y198F/Y232F, it was never observed in the mutant cortex transfected with a Dab1 gene containing the Y185F/Y198F or Y220F/Y232F. These findings suggest that Reelin induces phosphorylation at Y185 of Dab1, and that there are two Reelin signaling pathways, one mediated by the Y185/Y198 phosphorylation of Dab1 and the other mediated by the Y220/Y232 phosphorylation of Dab1. The results also suggest that phosphorylation of either one of the residues in each pair is sufficient for the transmission of Reelin signaling.
Mainly regulated at the transcriptional level, the cellular cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, CDKN1A/p21(WAF1) (p21), is a major cell cycle regulator of the response to DNA damage, senescence and tumor suppression. Here, we report that COUP-TF-interacting protein 2 (CTIP2), recruited to the p21 gene promoter, silenced p21 gene transcription through interactions with histone deacetylases and methyltransferases. Importantly, treatment with the specific SUV39H1 inhibitor, chaetocin, repressed histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation at the p21 gene promoter, stimulated p21 gene expression and induced cell cycle arrest. In addition, CTIP2 and SUV39H1 were recruited to the silenced p21 gene promoter to cooperatively inhibit p21 gene transcription. Induction of p21(WAF1) gene upon human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) infection benefits viral expression in macrophages. Here, we report that CTIP2 further abolishes Vpr-mediated stimulation of p21, thereby indirectly contributing to HIV-1 latency. Altogether, our results suggest that CTIP2 is a constitutive p21 gene suppressor that cooperates with SUV39H1 and histone methylation to silence the p21 gene transcription.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is a hematological malignancy that begins as indolent chronic phase (CP) but inevitably progresses to fatal blast crisis (BC). p210BCR/ABL, a chimeric protein with enhanced kinase activity, initiates CML CP, and additional genetic alterations account for progression to BC, but the precise mechanisms underlying disease evolution are not fully understood. In the present study, we investigated the possible contribution of dysfunction of Bcl11b, a zinc-finger protein required for thymocyte differentiation, and of H2AX, a histone protein involved in DNA repair, to the transition from CML CP to BC. For this purpose, we crossed CML CP-exhibiting p210BCR/ABL transgenic (BA(tg/-)) mice with Bcl11b heterozygous (Bcl11b(+/-)) mice and H2AX heterozygous (H2AX(+/-)) mice. Interestingly, p210BCR/ABL transgenic, Bcl11b heterozygous (BA(tg/-)Bcl11b(+/-)) mice and p210BCR/ABL transgenic, H2AX heterozygous (BA(tg/-)H2AX(+/-)) mice frequently developed CML BC with T-cell phenotype and died in a short period. In addition, whereas p210BCR/ABL was expressed in all of the leukemic tissues, the expression of Bcl11b and H2AX was undetectable in several tumors, which was attributed to the loss of the residual normal allele or the lack of mRNA expression. These results indicate that Bcl11b and H2AX function as tumor suppressor and that haploinsufficiency and acquired loss of these gene products cooperate with p210BCR/ABL to develop CML BC.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2009;4(4). doi: 10.1371/annotation/b01c646f-14c7-4aac-8812-9ed4f847c857. Indra, Arup [corrected to Indra, Arup K].
The transcription factor Ctip2/Bcl11b plays essential roles in developmental processes of the immune and central nervous systems and skin. Here we show that Ctip2 also plays a key role in tooth development. Ctip2 is highly expressed in the ectodermal components of the developing tooth, including inner and outer enamel epithelia, stellate reticulum, stratum intermedium, and the ameloblast cell lineage. In Ctip2(-/-) mice, tooth morphogenesis appeared to proceed normally through the cap stage but developed multiple defects at the bell stage. Mutant incisors and molars were reduced in size and exhibited hypoplasticity of the stellate reticulum. An ameloblast-like cell population developed ectopically on the lingual aspect of mutant lower incisors, and the morphology, polarization, and adhesion properties of ameloblasts on the labial side of these teeth were severely disrupted. Perturbations of gene expression were also observed in the mandible of Ctip2(-/-) mice: expression of the ameloblast markers amelogenin, ameloblastin, and enamelin was down-regulated, as was expression of Msx2 and epiprofin, transcription factors implicated in the tooth development and ameloblast differentiation. These results suggest that Ctip2 functions as a critical regulator of epithelial cell fate and differentiation during tooth morphogenesis.
COUP-TF-interacting protein 2 (CTIP2; also known as Bcl11b) is a transcription factor that plays key roles in the development of the central nervous and immune systems. CTIP2 is also highly expressed in the developing epidermis, and at lower levels in the dermis and in adult skin. Analyses of mice harboring a germline deletion of CTIP2 revealed that the protein plays critical roles in skin during development, particularly in keratinocyte proliferation and late differentiation events, as well as in the development of the epidermal permeability barrier. At the core of all of these actions is a relatively large network of genes, described herein, that is regulated directly or indirectly by CTIP2. The analysis of conditionally null mice, in which expression of CTIP2 was ablated specifically in epidermal keratinocytes, suggests that CTIP2 functions in both cell and non-cell autonomous contexts to exert regulatory influence over multiple phases of skin development, including barrier establishment. Considered together, our results suggest that CTIP2 functions as a top-level regulator of skin morphogenesis.
Neocortical projection neurons exhibit layer-specific molecular profiles and axonal connections. Here we show that the molecular identities of early-born subplate and deep-layer neurons are not acquired solely during generation or shortly thereafter but undergo progressive postmitotic refinement mediated by SOX5. Fezf2 and Bcl11b, transiently expressed in all subtypes of newly postmigratory early-born neurons, are subsequently downregulated in layer 6 and subplate neurons, thereby establishing their layer 5-enriched postnatal patterns. In Sox5-null mice, this downregulation is disrupted, and layer 6 and subplate neurons maintain an immature differentiation state, abnormally expressing these genes postnatally. Consistent with this disruption, SOX5 binds and represses a conserved enhancer near Fezf2. The Sox5-null neocortex exhibits failed preplate partition and laminar inversion of early-born neurons, loss of layer 5 subcerebral axons, and misrouting of subplate and layer 6 corticothalamic axons to the hypothalamus. Thus, SOX5 postmitotically regulates the migration, postmigratory differentiation, and subcortical projections of subplate and deep-layer neurons.
BCL11B is a transcriptional regulator with an important role in T-cell development and leukaemogenesis. We demonstrated recently that BCL11B controls expression from the IL (interleukin)-2 promoter through direct binding to the US1 (upstream site 1). In the present study, we provide evidence that BCL11B also participates in the activation of IL-2 gene expression by enhancing NF-kappaB (nuclear factor kappaB) activity in the context of TCR (T-cell receptor)/CD28-triggered T-cell activation. Enhanced NF-kappaB activation is not a consequence of BCL11B binding to the NF-kappaB response elements or association with the NF-kappaB-DNA complexes, but rather the result of higher translocation of NF-kappaB to the nucleus caused by enhanced degradation of IkappaB (inhibitor of NF-kappaB). The enhanced IkappaB degradation in cells with increased levels of BCL11B was specific for T-cells activated through the TCR, but not for cells activated through TNFalpha (tumour necrosis factor alpha) or UV light, and was caused by increased activity of IkappaB kinase, as indicated by its increase in phosphorylation. As BCL11B is a transcription factor, we investigated whether the expression of genes upstream of IkappaB kinase in the TCR/CD28 signalling pathway was affected by increased BCL11B expression, and found that Cot (cancer Osaka thyroid oncogene) kinase mRNA levels were elevated. Cot kinase is known to promote enhanced IkappaB kinase activity, which results in the phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaB and activation of NF-kappaB. The implied involvement of Cot kinase in BCL11B-mediated NF-kappaB activation in response to TCR activation is supported by the fact that a Cot kinase dominant-negative mutant or Cot kinase siRNA (small interfering RNA) knockdown blocked BCL11B-mediated NF-kappaB activation. In support of our observations, in the present study we report that BCL11B enhances the expression of several other NF-kappaB target genes, in addition to IL-2. In addition, we provide evidence that BCL11B associates with intron 2 of the Cot kinase gene to regulate its expression.
In this study we provide evidence that the transcription factor BCL11B represses expression from the HIV-1 long terminal repeat (LTR) in T lymphocytes through direct association with the HIV-1 LTR. We also demonstrate that the NuRD corepressor complex mediates BCL11B transcriptional repression of the HIV-1 LTR. In addition, BCL11B and the NuRD complex repressed TAT-mediated transactivation of the HIV-1 LTR in T lymphocytes, pointing to a potential role in initiation of silencing. In support of all the above results, we demonstrate that BCL11B affects HIV-1 replication and virus production, most likely by blocking LTR transcriptional activity. BCL11B showed specific repression for the HIV-1 LTR sequences isolated from seven different HIV-1 subtypes, demonstrating that it is a general transcriptional repressor for all LTRs.
Pyramidal neurons in the deep layers of the cerebral cortex can be classified into two major classes: callosal projection neurons and long-range subcortical neurons. We and others have shown that a gene expressed specifically by subcortical projection neurons, Fezf2, is required for the formation of axonal projections to the spinal cord, tectum, and pons. Here, we report that Fezf2 regulates a decision between subcortical vs. callosal projection neuron fates. Fezf2(-/-) neurons adopt the fate of callosal projection neurons as assessed by their axonal projections, electrophysiological properties, and acquisition of Satb2 expression. Ctip2 is a major downstream effector of Fezf2 in regulating the extension of axons toward subcortical targets and can rescue the axonal phenotype of Fezf2 mutants. When ectopically expressed, either Fezf2 or Ctip2 can alter the axonal targeting of corticocortical projection neurons and cause them to project to subcortical targets, although Fezf2 can promote a subcortical projection neuron fate in the absence of Ctip2 expression.
Transcriptional dysregulation has emerged as a central pathogenic mechanism in Huntington's disease (HD), which is associated with neuropathological changes predominantly in the striatum. Here we demonstrate that expression of Bcl11b (a.k.a. CTIP2), a transcription factor exhibiting highly-enriched localization in adult striatum, is significantly decreased in HD cells, mouse models and human subjects and that overexpression of Bcl11b attenuates toxic effects of mutant huntingtin in cultured striatal neurons. We show that Bcl11b directly activates the proximal promoter regions of striatal-enriched genes and can increase mRNA levels of striatal-expressing genes. We further demonstrate an interaction between Bcl11b and huntingtin protein in cultured cells and brain homogenates from HD R6/1 and YAC72 transgenic mice. We propose that sequestration and/or decreased expression of Bcl11b in HD is responsible, at least in part, for the dysregulation of striatal gene expression observed in HD and may contribute to the specificity of pathology observed in this disease.
Bcl11b is a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor gene and expressed in many tissues such as thymus, brain and skin. Irradiated Bcl11b+/- heterozygous mice mostly develop thymic lymphomas, but the preference of Bcl11b inactivation for thymic lymphomas remains to be addressed. We produced Bcl11b+/- heterozygous and Bcl11b wild-type mice of p53+/- background and compared their incidence of gamma-ray induced thymic lymphomas. Majority of the tumors in p53+/- mice were skin tumors, and only 5 (36%) of the 14 tumors were thymic lymphomas. In contrast, Bcl11b+/-p53+/- doubly heterozygous mice developed thymic lymphomas at the frequency of 27 (79%) of the 34 tumors developed (P=0.008). This indicates the preference of Bcl11b impairment for thymic lymphoma development. We also analyzed loss of the wild-type alleles in the 27 lymphomas, a predicted consequence given by gamma-irradiation. However, the loss frequency was low, only six (22%) for Bcl11b and five (19%) for p53. The frequencies did not differ from those of spontaneously developed thymic lymphomas in the doubly heterozygous mice, though the latency of lymphoma development markedly differed between them. This suggests that the main contribution of irradiation at least in those mice is not for the tumor initiation by inducing allelic losses but probably for the promotion of thymic lymphoma development.
Radiation-induced thymic lymphoma in mice is a useful model for studying both the mechanism of radiation carcinogenesis and genetic susceptibility to tumor development. Using array-comparative genomic hybridization, we analyzed genome-wide changes in DNA copy numbers in radiation-induced thymic lymphomas that had developed in susceptible C57BL/6 and resistant C3H mice and their hybrids, C3B6F1 and B6C3F1 mice. Besides aberrations at known relevant genetic loci including Ikaros and Bcl11b and trisomy of chromosome 15, we identified strain-associated genomic imbalances on chromosomes 5, 10 and 16 and strain-unassociated trisomy of chromosome 14 as frequent aberrations. In addition, biallelic rearrangements at Tcrb were detected more frequently in tumors from C57BL/6 mice than in those from C3H mice, suggesting aberrant V(D)J recombination and a possible link with tumor susceptibility. The frequency and spectrum of these copy-number changes in lymphomas from C3B6F1 and B6C3F1 mice were similar to those in C57BL/6 mice. Furthermore, the loss of heterozygosity analyses of tumors in F(1) mice indicated that allelic losses at Ikaros and Bcl11b were caused primarily by multilocus deletions, whereas those at the Cdkn2a/Cdkn2b and Pten loci were due mainly to uniparental disomy. These findings provide important clues to both the mechanisms for accumulation of aberrations during radiation-induced lymphomagenesis and the different susceptibilities of C57BL/6 and C3H mice.
To investigate the molecular effects of growth factor independence 1B (Gfi-1B), a transcription factor essential for the development of hematopoietic cells and differentiation of erythroid and megakaryocytic lineages, the naturally Gfi-1B overexpressing cell line K562 was cultured in the presence of Gfi-1B target-specific small interfering RNA (siRNA). SiRNA treatment significantly knocked down Gfi-1B expression with an efficiency of nearly 90%. Analysis of the siRNA silencing protocol by colony-forming units ensured that it was not cytotoxic. Samples from Gfi-1B overexpressing cells and cells with knocked-down Gfi-1B were analyzed by oligonucleotide microarray technology and based upon rigorous statistical analysis of the data; relevant genes were chosen for confirmation by reserve transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, including MYC/MYCBP and CDKN1A. Interestingly, transcripts within components of the signalling cascade of immune cells (PLD1, LAMP1, HSP90, IL6ST), of the tyrosine kinase pathway (TPR, RAC3) and of the transcription factors (RAC3, CEP290, JEM-1, ATR, MYC, SMC3, RARA, RBBP6) were found to be differentially expressed in Gfi-1B overexpressing cells compared to controls. Individual genes such as ZDHHC17, DMXL1, ZNF292 were found to be upregulated in Gfi-1B overexpressing cells. In addition, down-regulated transcripts showed cell signaling transcripts for several chemokine gene members including GNAL, CXCL5, GNL3L, GPR65, TMEM30, BCL11B and transcription factors (GTF2H3, ATXN3). In conclusion, several essential cell signalling factors, as well as transcriptional and post-translational regulation genes were differentially expressed in cells that overexpressed Gfi-1B compared to control cells with knocked-down Gfi-1B. Our data indicate that Gfi-1B signalling is important for commitment and maturation of hematopoietic cell populations.
The molecular mechanisms controlling the development of distinct subtypes of neocortical projection neurons, and CNS neuronal diversity more broadly, are only now emerging. We report that the transcription factor SOX5 controls the sequential generation of distinct corticofugal neuron subtypes by preventing premature emergence of normally later-born corticofugal neurons. SOX5 loss-of-function causes striking overlap of the identities of the three principal sequentially born corticofugal neuron subtypes: subplate neurons, corticothalamic neurons, and subcerebral projection neurons. In Sox5(-/-) cortex, subplate neurons aberrantly develop molecular hallmarks and connectivity of subcerebral projection neurons; corticothalamic neurons are imprecisely differentiated, while differentiation of subcerebral projection neurons is accelerated. Gain-of-function analysis reinforces the critical role of SOX5 in controlling the sequential generation of corticofugal neurons--SOX5 overexpression at late stages of corticogenesis causes re-emergence of neurons with corticofugal features. These data indicate that SOX5 controls the timing of critical fate decisions during corticofugal neuron production and thus subtype-specific differentiation and neocortical neuron diversity.
Striatal medium spiny neurons (MSN) are critically involved in motor control, and their degeneration is a principal component of Huntington's disease. We find that the transcription factor Ctip2 (also known as Bcl11b) is central to MSN differentiation and striatal development. Within the striatum, it is expressed by all MSN, although it is excluded from essentially all striatal interneurons. In the absence of Ctip2, MSN do not fully differentiate, as demonstrated by dramatically reduced expression of a large number of MSN markers, including DARPP-32, FOXP1, Chrm4, Reelin, MOR1 (mu-opioid receptor 1), glutamate receptor 1, and Plexin-D1. Furthermore, MSN fail to aggregate into patches, resulting in severely disrupted patch-matrix organization within the striatum. Finally, heterotopic cellular aggregates invade the Ctip2-/- striatum, suggesting a failure by MSN to repel these cells in the absence of Ctip2. This is associated with abnormal dopaminergic innervation of the mutant striatum and dramatic changes in gene expression, including dysregulation of molecules involved in cellular repulsion. Together, these data indicate that Ctip2 is a critical regulator of MSN differentiation, striatal patch development, and the establishment of the cellular architecture of the striatum.
In T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) the cardiac homeobox gene NKX2-5 (at 5q35) is variously deregulated by regulatory elements coordinating with BCL11B (at 14q32.2), or the T-cell receptor gene TRD (at 14q11.2), respectively. NKX2-5 is normally expressed in developing spleen and heart, regulating fundamental processes, including differentiation and survival. In this study we investigated whether NKX2-5 expression in T-ALL cell lines reactivates these embryonal pathways contributing to leukemogenesis. Among 18 known targets analyzed, we identified three genes regulated by NKX2-5 in T-ALL cells, including myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C). Knockdown and overexpression assays confirmed MEF2C activation by NKX2-5 at both the RNA and protein levels. Direct interactions between NKX2-5 and GATA3 as indicated by co-immunoprecipitation data may contribute to MEF2C regulation. In T-ALL cell lines LOUCY and RPMI-8402 MEF2C expression was correlated with a 5q14 deletion, encompassing noncoding proximal gene regions. Fusion constructs with green fluorescent protein permitted subcellular detection of MEF2C protein in nuclear speckles interpretable as repression complexes. MEF2C consistently inhibits expression of NR4A1/NUR77, which regulates apoptosis via BCL2 transformation. Taken together, our data identify distinct mechanisms underlying ectopic MEF2C expression in T-ALL, either as a downstream target of NKX2-5, or via chromosomal aberrations deleting proximal gene regions.
Transcriptional control of gene expression in double-positive (DP) thymocytes remains poorly understood. We show that the transcription factor BCL11B plays a critical role in DP thymocytes by controlling positive selection of both CD4 and CD8 lineages. BCL11B-deficient DP thymocytes rearrange T cell receptor (TCR) alpha; however, they display impaired proximal TCR signaling and attenuated extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation and calcium flux, which are all required for initiation of positive selection. Further, provision of transgenic TCRs did not improve positive selection of BCL11B-deficient DP thymocytes. BCL11B-deficient DP thymocytes have altered expression of genes with a role in positive selection, TCR signaling, and other signaling pathways intersecting the TCR, which may account for the defect. BCL11B-deficient DP thymocytes also presented increased susceptibility to spontaneous apoptosis associated with high levels of cleaved caspase-3 and an altered balance of proapoptotic/prosurvival factors. This latter susceptibility was manifested even in the absence of TCR signaling and was only partially rescued by provision of the BCL2 transgene, indicating that control of DP thymocyte survival by BCL11B is nonredundant and, at least in part, independent of BCL2 prosurvival factors.
Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) plays an important role in leukemogenesis via inactivation of tumor suppressor genes. Recent studies have demonstrated that mouse thymic lymphomas (TL), a suitable model for the mechanistic study of human acute lymphoblastic leukemia, show frequent LOH on chromosomes 4 (p15/p16), 11 (Ikaros), 12 (Bcl11b), 19 (Pten), and X. To date, however, little data are available regarding the mechanism of LOH. In this study, we re-evaluated chromosomal abnormality and loss of heterozygosity in 26 TL-induced by x-rays in C57BL/6 (B6), C3H, and F1 (B6 x C3H) mice, using the quinacrine-Hoechst double-staining method and chromosome painting technique. Chromosomally abnormal cells were present in 25 TL examined (25/26, 96%). The most frequent abnormality was trisomy or partial trisomy of chromosome 15 (16/26, 62%), which is consistent with previous studies. Structural abnormalities of chromosome 11 with interstitial deletion of proximal region and chromosome 12 with translocation with deletion of distal region were newly identified in 7 (27%) and 12 (46%) cases, respectively. These results indicate that the distinct mechanism contributes to the LOH of each tumor suppressor gene on different chromosomal locations.
BACKGROUND: The telomeric region of mouse chromosome 12 has previously shown frequent allelic loss in murine lymphoma. The Bcl11b gene has been identified and suggested as a candidate tumor suppressor gene within this region. In this study, we aimed to elucidate whether Bcl11b is mutated in lymphomas with allelic loss, and whether the mutations we detected conferred any effect on cell proliferation and apoptosis.METHODS: Mouse lymphomas induced by 1,3-butadiene or 2',3'-dideoxycytidine were analysed for mutations in the Bcl11b gene using single strand conformation analysis and direct DNA sequencing. Effects on cell proliferation by the detected mutations were studied by expressing wild-type and mutant Bcl11b in the cytokine-dependent hematopoietic progenitor cell line FDC-P1, lacking endogenous Bcl11b expression.RESULTS: Missense and frameshift (FS) mutations were identified in 7 of 47 tumors (15%). Interestingly, all mutations were found between amino acids 778-844 which encode the three C-terminal DNA-binding zinc fingers. In FDC-P1 cells, wild-type Bcl11b suppressed cell proliferation, whereas the mutated versions (S778N, K828T, Y844C and FS823) enhanced proliferation several-fold.CONCLUSION: The genetic alterations detected in this study suggest that the three C-terminal zinc fingers of Bcl11b are important for the DNA-binding. Cell proliferation was suppressed by overexpression of wild-type Bcl11b but enhanced by mutant Bcl11b, indicating that these mutations may be an important contributing factor to lymphomagenesis in a subset of tumors.
COUP-TF-interacting protein 2 (CTIP2), also known as Bcl11b, is a transcriptional regulatory protein that is highly expressed in and plays a critical role(s) during development of T lymphocytes and the central nervous system. We demonstrate herein that CTIP2 is also highly expressed in mouse skin during embryogenesis and in adulthood as revealed by immunohistochemical analyses. CTIP2 expression in the ectoderm was first detected at embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5), and became increasingly restricted to proliferating cells of the basal cell layer of the developing epidermis in later stages of fetal development and in adult skin. In addition, CTIP2 expression was also detected in some cells of the suprabasal layer of the developing epidermis, as well as in developing and mature hair follicles. Relatively fewer cells of the developing dermal component of skin were found to express CTIP2, and the adult dermis was devoid of CTIP2 expression. Some, but not all, of the cells present within hair follicle bulge were found to co-express CTIP2, keratin K15, but not CD34, indicating that a subset of K15(+) CD34(-) skin stem cells may express CTIP2. Considered together, these findings suggest that CTIP2 may play a role(s) in skin development and/or homeostasis.
Notch signaling activates T lineage differentiation from hemopoietic progenitors, but relatively few regulators that initiate this program have been identified, e.g., GATA3 and T cell factor-1 (TCF-1) (gene name Tcf7). To identify additional regulators of T cell specification, a cDNA library from mouse Pro-T cells was screened for genes that are specifically up-regulated in intrathymic T cell precursors as compared with myeloid progenitors. Over 90 genes of interest were identified, and 35 of 44 tested were confirmed to be more highly expressed in T lineage precursors relative to precursors of B and/or myeloid lineage. To a remarkable extent, however, expression of these T lineage-enriched genes, including zinc finger transcription factor, helicase, and signaling adaptor genes, was also shared by stem cells (Lin(-)Sca-1(+)Kit(+)CD27(-)) and multipotent progenitors (Lin(-)Sca-1(+)Kit(+)CD27(+)), although down-regulated in other lineages. Thus, a major fraction of these early T lineage genes are a regulatory legacy from stem cells. The few genes sharply up-regulated between multipotent progenitors and Pro-T cell stages included those encoding transcription factors Bcl11b, TCF-1 (Tcf7), and HEBalt, Notch target Deltex1, Deltex3L, Fkbp5, Eva1, and Tmem131. Like GATA3 and Deltex1, Bcl11b, Fkbp5, and Eva1 were dependent on Notch/Delta signaling for induction in fetal liver precursors, but only Bcl11b and HEBalt were up-regulated between the first two stages of intrathymic T cell development (double negative 1 and double negative 2) corresponding to T lineage specification. Bcl11b was uniquely T lineage restricted and induced by Notch/Delta signaling specifically upon entry into the T lineage differentiation pathway.
Bcl11b/Rit1 is involved in T-cell development and undergoes chromosomal rearrangements in human T-cell leukemias. Thymocytes of Bcl11b(-/-) newborn mice exhibit apoptosis at a certain developmental stage when thymocytes re-enter into the cell-cycle. Here, we show that Bcl11b-knockdown T-cell lines, when exposed to growth stimuli, exhibited apoptosis at the S phase with concomitant decreases in a cell-cycle inhibitor, p27 and an antiapoptotic protein, Bcl-xL, owing to transcriptional repression. This repression was a likely consequence of the impairment of Sirt1, a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent deacetylase associating with Bcl11b. Activation of the apoptotic process cleaved the mediator protein, Claspin, and inhibited phosphorylation of cell-cycle checkpoint kinase 1 (Chk1) that plays a central role in sensing and responding to incomplete replication. Bcl11b(-/-) thymocytes also failed to phosphorylate Chk1 when UV irradiated. These results implicate Bcl11b in the remedy for DNA replication stress and maintenance of genomic integrity.
Whole-body gamma-irradiation to mice causes thymic atrophy where a population of precancerous cells with mutation can be found. Thus, clonal growth and DNA changes at Bcl11b, Ikaros, Pten, Notch1 and Myc were examined in not only thymic lymphomas but also in atrophic thymuses at various times after irradiation. Clonal expansion was detected from the distinct patterns of rearrangements at the TCRbeta receptor locus in a fraction of atrophic thymuses at as early as 30 days after irradiation. This expansion may be in part owing to the rearranged TCRbeta signaling because the transfer of bone marrow cells with the rearrangement and the wild-type locus into severe-combined immunodeficiency mice showed preferential growth of the rearranged thymocytes in atrophic thymus. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at Bcl11b and trisomy of Myc were found at high frequencies in both lymphomas and atrophic thymuses, and in contrast, LOH at Ikaros and Pten were rare in atrophic thymuses but prevalent in lymphomas. Notch1 activation was detected in lymphomas and in atrophic thymuses only at a late stage. Similar patterns of DNA changes were found in atrophic thymuses induced in Bcl11b(+/-) mice. These results suggest the order of genetic changes during lymphomagenesis, Bcl11b and Myc being at the early stage; whereas Ikaros, Pten and Notch1 at the late stage.
In T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, alternative t(5;14)(q35;q32.2) forms effect dysregulation of either TLX3 or NKX2-5 homeobox genes at 5q35 by juxtaposition with 14q32.2 breakpoints dispersed across the BCL11B downstream genomic desert. Leukemic gene dysregulation by t(5;14) was investigated by DNA inhibitory treatments with 26-mer double-stranded DNA oligonucleotides directed against candidate enhancers at, or near, orphan T-cell DNase I hypersensitive sites located between 3'-BCL11B and VRK1. NKX2-5 down-regulation in t(5;14) PEER cells was almost entirely restricted to DNA inhibitory treatment targeting enhancers within the distal breakpoint cluster region and was dose and sequence dependent, whereas enhancers near 3'-BCL11B regulated that gene only. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed that the four most effectual NKX2-5 ectopic enhancers were hyperacetylated. These enhancers clustered approximately 1 Mbp downstream of BCL11B, within a region displaying multiple regulatory stigmata, including a TCRA enhancer motif, deep sequence conservation, and tight nuclear matrix attachment relaxed by trichostatin A treatment. Intriguingly, although TLX3/NKX2-5 promoter/exon 1 regions were hypoacetylated, their expression was trichostatin A sensitive, implying extrinsic regulation by factor(s) under acetylation control. Knockdown of PU.1, known to be trichostatin A responsive and which potentially binds TLX3/NKX2-5 promoters, effected down-regulation of both homeobox genes. Moreover, genomic analysis showed preferential enrichment near ectopic enhancers of binding sites for the PU.1 cofactor HMGA1, the knockdown of which also inhibited NKX2-5. We suggest that HMGA1 and PU.1 coregulate ectopic homeobox gene expression in t(5;14) T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia by interactions mediated at the nuclear matrix. Our data document homeobox gene dysregulation by a novel regulatory region at 3'-BCL11B responsive to histone deacetylase inhibition and highlight a novel class of potential therapeutic target amid noncoding DNA.
Recurrent chromosomal rearrangements at BCL11B are found in human hematopoietic malignancies mostly of T-cell origin. However, it is unclear how this disruption contributes to oncogenesis, because the majority of leukemias express BCL11B from an undisrupted allele. Here, we show that Bcl11b(+/-)p53(+/-) mice exhibited greater susceptibility to lymphomas than Bcl11b(+/+)p53(+/-) mice but most lymphomas retained and expressed the wild-type Bcl11b allele. This strongly suggests that Bcl11b is haploinsufficient for suppression of thymic lymphoma development in mice of the p53(+/-) background, a situation in which functional loss of only one allele confers a selective advantage for tumor growth. The haploinsufficiency is further supported by that Bcl11b(+/-) mouse embryos were impaired in thymocyte development and survival. These results indicate relevance of BCL11B aberration to human leukemogenesis.
Following entry and reverse transcription, the HIV-1 genome is integrated into the host genome. In contrast to productively infected cells, latently infected cells frequently harbor HIV-1 genomes integrated in heterochromatic structures, allowing persistence of transcriptionally silent proviruses. Microglial cells are the main HIV-1 target cells in the central nervous system and constitute an important reservoir for viral pathogenesis. In the present work, we show that, in microglial cells, the co-repressor COUP-TF interacting protein 2 (CTIP2) recruits a multienzymatic chromatin-modifying complex and establishes a heterochromatic environment at the HIV-1 promoter. We report that CTIP2 recruits histone deacetylase (HDAC)1 and HDAC2 to promote local histone H3 deacetylation at the HIV-1 promoter region. In addition, DNA-bound CTIP2 also associates with the histone methyltransferase SUV39H1, which increases local histone H3 lysine 9 methylation. This allows concomitant recruitment of HP1 proteins to the viral promoter and formation of local heterochromatin, leading to HIV-1 silencing. Altogether, our findings uncover new therapeutic opportunities for purging latent HIV-1 viruses from their cellular reservoirs.
Mouse strains exhibit different susceptibilities to gamma-ray-induced thymic lymphomas. Our previous study identified Mtf-1 (metal responsive transcription factor-1) as a candidate susceptibility gene, which is involved in the radiation-induced signaling pathway that regulates the cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS). To reveal the mechanism for the increased susceptibility conferred by Mtf-1 locus, we examined early effects of gamma-ray on ROS levels in vivo and its difference between Mtf-1 susceptible and resistant congenic mice. Here, we show the detection of clonally growing thymocytes at 4 weeks after irradiation, indicating the start of clonal expansion at a very early stage. We also show that large thymocytes with higher ROS levels and a proliferation capacity were more numerous in the Mtf-1 susceptible mice than the resistant mice when examined at 7 days after irradiation, although such tendency was not found in mice lacking one allele of Bcl11b tumor suppressor gene. This high retention of the large thymocytes, at a high risk for ROS-induced mutation, is a compensatory proliferation and regeneration response to depletion of the thymocytes after irradiation and the response is likely to augment the development of prelymphoma cells leading to thymic lymphomas.
The B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/lymphoma 11B gene (BCL11B) encodes a Krüppel-like zinc-finger protein, which plays a crucial role in thymopoiesis and has been associated with hematopoietic malignancies. It was hypothesized that BCL11B may act as a tumor-suppressor gene, but its precise function has not yet been elucidated. Here, we demonstrate that the survival of human T-cell leukemia and lymphoma cell lines is critically dependent on Bcl11b. Suppression of Bcl11b by RNA interference selectively induced apoptosis in transformed T cells whereas normal mature T cells remained unaffected. The apoptosis was effected by simultaneous activation of death receptor-mediated and intrinsic apoptotic pathways, most likely as a result of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) upregulation and suppression of the Bcl-xL antiapoptotic protein. Our data indicate an antiapoptotic function of Bcl11b. The resistance of normal mature T lymphocytes to Bcl11b suppression-induced apoptosis and restricted expression pattern make it an attractive therapeutic target in T-cell malignancies.
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor (COUP-TF)-interacting protein 2 (CTIP2), also known as Bcl11b, is a transcriptional repressor that functions by direct, sequence-specific DNA binding activity or by recruitment to the promoter template by interaction with COUP-TF family members. CTIP2 is essential for both T cell development and axonal projections of corticospinal motor neurons in the central nervous system. However, little is known regarding the molecular mechanism(s) by which CTIP2 contributes to either process. CTIP2 complexes that were isolated from SK-N-MC neuroblastoma cells were found to harbor substantial histone deacetylase activity, which was likely conferred by the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylation (NuRD) complex. CTIP2 was found to associate with the NuRD complex through direct interaction with both RbAp46 and RbAp48, and components of the NuRD complex were found to be recruited to an artificial promoter template in a CTIP2-dependent manner in transfected cells. Finally, the NuRD complex and CTIP2 were found to co-occupy the promoter template of p57KIP2, a gene encoding a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, and identified herein as a novel transcriptional target of CTIP2 in SK-N-MC cells. Therefore, it seems likely that the NuRD complex may be involved in transcriptional repression of CTIP2 target genes and contribute to the function(s) of CTIP2 within a neuronal context.
The t(5;14)(q35;q32) chromosomal translocation is specifically observed in up to 20% of childhood T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). It affects the BCL11B/CTIP2 locus on chromosome 14 and the RANBP17-TLX3/HOX11L2 region on chromosome 5. It leads to ectopic activation of TLX3/HOX11L2. To investigate the reasons of the association between t(5;14) and T-ALL, we isolated the translocation breakpoints in 8 t(5;14) patients. Sequence analyses did not involve recombinase activity in the genesis of the translocation. We used DNAse1 hypersensitive experiments to locate transcriptional regulatory elements downstream of BCL11B. By transient transfection experiments, 2 of the 6 regions demonstrated cis-activation properties in T cells and were also effective on the TLX3 promoter. Our data indicate that the basis of the specific association between t(5;14) and T-ALL lies on the juxtaposition of TLX3 to long-range cis-activating regions active during T-cell differentiation.
Ionizing radiation is a well-known carcinogen for various human tissues and a complete carcinogen that is able to initiate and promote neoplastic progression. Studies of radiation-induced mouse thymic lymphomas, one of the classic models in radiation carcinogenesis, demonstrated that even the unirradiated thymus is capable of developing into full malignancy when transplanted into the kidney capsule or subcutaneous tissue of irradiated mice. This suggests that radiation targets tissues other than thymocytes to allow expansion of cells with tumorigenic potential in the thymus. The idea is regarded as the 'indirect mechanism' for tumor development. This paper reviews the indirect mechanism and genes affecting the development of thymic lymphomas that we have analyzed. One is the Bcl11b/Rit1 tumor suppressor gene and the other is Mtf-1 gene affecting tumor susceptibility.
BCL11A and BCL11B are transcriptional regulators important for lymphopoiesis and previously associated with hematopoietic malignancies. Ablation of the mouse Bcl11b locus results in failure to generate double-positive thymocytes, implicating a critical role of Bcl11b in T-cell development. However, BCL11B is also expressed in CD4+ T lymphocytes, both in resting and activated states. Here we show both in transformed and primary CD4+ T cells that BCL11B participates in the control of the interleukin-2 (IL2) gene expression following activation through T-cell receptor (TCR). BCL11B augments expression from the IL2 promoter through direct binding to the US1 site. In addition, BCL11B associates with the p300 coactivator in CD4+ T cells activated through TCR, which may account for its transcriptional activation function. These results provide the first evidence that BCL11B, originally described as a transcriptional repressor, activates transcription of a target gene in the context of T-cell activation.
The importance of HOXA genes in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) has recently been recognized. We report a novel chromosomal translocation in a T-ALL patient that maps upstream of the HOXA13 gene and downstream of the BCL11B/CTIP2 locus. Analysis of HOXA gene transcription demonstrated massive expression of HOXA13, whereas the other HOXA genes were unaffected. A genomic rearrangement of the HOXA locus associated with exclusive expression of HOXA13 was observed in a second patient. This situation resembles chromosomal translocations activating genes of the TLX/HOX11 family in T-ALLs. To compare the leukemogenic properties of HOXA13 to that of TLX proteins, cohorts of lethally irradiated mice were transplanted with bone marrow transduced with a retroviral vector expressing TLX3 or HOXA13. Cells transduced with TLX3 or HOXA13 could not be detected in the peripheral blood of mice post-transplantation and none of the mice developed malignancies. Cotransduction of the HOX cofactor MEIS1 with TLX3 or HOXA13 did not alter this outcome. However, in a myeloid clonogenic assay HOXA13 and TLX3 extended the proliferation of progenitors similarly to what was observed for TLX1. Altogether, our results strongly suggest the absolute requirement for cooperative events in association with homeobox gene up-regulation to induce T-cell leukemogenesis.
Bcl11b(-/-) mice show developmental arrest at the CD44(-)CD25(+) double-negative 3 (DN3) or immature CD8(+)single-positive stage of alphabeta T cell. We have performed detailed analysis of sorted subsets of Bcl11b(-/-) thymocytes, DN3 and CD44(-)CD25(-) double-negative 4 (DN4) cells. Surface expression of TCRbeta proteins was not detected in DN3 thymocytes and markedly reduced in DN4 thymocytes, whereas expression within the cell was detected in both, suggesting some impairment in processing of TCRbeta proteins from the cytoplasm to the cell surface. This lack of expression, resulting in the absence of pre-TCR signaling, could be responsible for the arrest, but the transgenic TCRbeta or TCRalphabeta expression on the cell surface failed to promote transition from the DN3 to CD4(+)CD8(+) double-positive stage of development. This suggests that the pre-TCR signal cannot compensate the deficiency of Bcl11b for development. Bcl11b(-/-) DN3 thymocytes showed normal DNA rearrangements between Dbeta and Jbeta segments but limited DNA rearrangements between Vbeta and DJbeta without effect of distal or proximal positions. Because this impairment may be due to chromatin accessibility, we have examined histone H3 acetylation in Bcl11b(-/-) DN3 cells using chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. No change was observed in acetylation at the Vbeta and Dbeta gene locus. Analysis of Bcl11b(-/-) DN4 thymocytes showed apoptosis, accompanied with lower expression of anti-apoptotic proteins, Bcl-x(L) and Bcl-2, than wild-type DN4 thymocytes. Interestingly, the transgenic TCRalphabeta in those cells reduced apoptosis and raised their protein expression without increased cellularity. These results suggest that Bcl11b deficiency affects many different signaling pathways leading to development arrests.
Comment in    Haematologica. 2006 Mar;91(3):290A.
Aggressive adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) such as acute and lymphoma types are fatal diseases with poor prognosis. Although these 2 subtypes feature different clinicopathologic characteristics, no detailed comparative analyses of genomic/genetic alterations have been reported. We performed array-based comparative genomic hybridization for 17 acute and 49 lymphoma cases as well as real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to identify the target genes of recurrently amplified regions. Comparison of the genome profiles of acute and lymphoma types revealed that the lymphoma type had significantly more frequent gains at 1q, 2p, 4q, 7p, and 7q, and losses of 10p, 13q, 16q, and 18p, whereas the acute type showed a gain of 3/3p. Of the recurrent high-level amplifications found at 1p36, 6p25, 7p22, 7q, and 14q32 in the lymphoma type, we were able to demonstrate that CARMA1 is a possible target gene of the 7p22 amplification for the lymphoma type but not for the acute type. Furthermore, we found BCL11B overexpression in the acute type regardless of the 14q32 gain/amplification, but no or low expression of the gene in the lymphoma type. These results suggest that acute and lymphoma types are genomically distinct subtypes, and thus may develop tumors via distinct genetic pathways.
During routine ultrasound screening at 12 weeks 5 days of gestation, a nuchal translucency of 7 mm, an omphalocele, and fetal hydrops were found and prompted chorionic villus sampling at 13 weeks 2 days. Chromosome analysis showed an unbalanced karyotype with an abnormal chromosome 14. The mother was a carrier of a translocation karyotype 46,XX,t(13;14) (q34;q32.2). In the fetus this gave rise to a partial trisomy 13q and partial monosomy 14q (fetal karyotype: 46,XX,der[14]t[13;14][q34;q32.2]). By Array-CGH on DNA extracted from a postmortem skin culture, a duplication of approximately 1.7 Mbp of the distal part of chromosome 13q34 and a deletion of approximately 6.0 Mbp of the distal part of chromosome 14q32.2 was demonstrated. Postmortem findings after termination of pregnancy at 14 weeks 6 days included, among others, a severe hypoplasia of the median part of the maxilla, no recognizable nose, a broad median palatoschisis, nonlobulated lungs, a horseshoe kidney with multicystic dysplasia, and decreased development of cortical cellularity in the thymus. These clinical manifestations and autopsy findings of the fetus are compared with those of previously published cases and the possible involvement in this pathology of the YY1 and JAG2 transcription factors and the BCL11b and SIVA-1 regulators of thymic development is discussed.
BCL11 genes play crucial roles in lymphopoiesis and have been associated with hematopoietic malignancies. Specifically, disruption of the BCL11B (B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma 11B) locus is linked to T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and the loss of heterozygosity in mice results in T-cell lymphoma. BCL11 proteins are related C2H2 zinc-finger transcription factors that act as transcriptional repressors. Here, we demonstrate the association of the endogenous BCL11B with the nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase (NuRD) complex, one of the major transcriptional corepressor complexes in mammalian cells. BCL11B complexes from T lymphocytes possess trichostatin A-sensitive histone deacetylase activity, confirming the functionality of the complexes. Analysis of the BCL11B-NuRD association demonstrated that BCL11B directly interacted with the metastasis-associated proteins MTA1 and MTA2 through the amino-terminal region. We provide evidence for the functional requirement of MTA1 in transcriptional repression mediated by BCL11B through the following: (1) overexpression of MTA1 enhanced the transcriptional repression mediated by BCL11B, (2) knockdown of MTA1 expression by small interfering RNA inhibited BCL11B transcriptional repression activity and (3) MTA1 was specifically recruited to a BCL11B targeted promoter. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that the NuRD complex mediates transcriptional repression function of BCL11B.
Author information:(1)INSERM unité 575 Pathophysiology of Nervous System, Centre de Neurochimie 5 rue Blaise Pascal, 67084 Strasbourg, France.
Signaling pathways such as the pre-TCR and Wnt pathways regulate alpha/beta T cell differentiation in thymus. Mice lacking an essential component of the pre-TCR exhibit arrest at the (CD4(-)CD8(-)) (CD44(-)CD25(+)) stage (DN3) of thymocyte development, and introduction of p53 deficiency into those mice abrogates this arrest, resulting in transition to the (CD4(+)CD8(+)) double-positive (DP) stage. This paper examines the effect of inactivation of p53 on thymocyte development in Bcl11b(-/-) mice that exhibit arrest at the DN3 or (CD4(-)CD8(+)) immature single-positive (ISP) stage. No DP thymocytes were detected in thymocytes of adoptive transfer experiments in scid mice that were derived from p53(-/-)Bcl11b(-/-) precursors but ISP thymocytes increased in the proportion and in the cell number approximately three times higher than those from Bcl11b(-/-) precursors. Consistently, the level of apoptosis decreased to the level of wild-type precursors. These results suggest that inactivation of p53 is sufficient for DN3 thymocytes to differentiate into the ISP, but not to DP, stage of thymocyte development in Bcl11b(-/-) mice. This provides evidence for a novel p53-mediated checkpoint that regulates the transition from the DN3 to ISP stage of thymocyte development.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is associated with chromosomal aberrations characterized by juxtaposition of proto-oncogenes to T-cell receptor gene loci (TCR), resulting in the deregulated transcription of these proto-oncogenes. Here, we describe the molecular characterization of a novel chromosomal aberration, inv(14)(q11.2q32.31), in a T-ALL sample, involving the recently described BCL11B gene and the TCRD locus. The inversion joined the 5' part of BCL11B, including exons 1-3, to the TRDD3 gene segment of the TCRD locus, whereas the reciprocal breakpoint fused the TRDV1 gene segment to the fourth exon of BCL11B. The TRDV1-BCL11B joining region was 1344 bp long and contained fragments derived from 20q11.22, 3p21.33 and from 11p12, indicating the complex character of this aberration. A strong expression of in-frame transcripts with truncated BCL11B and TCRD constant region (TRDC) were observed, but in contrast to normal T cells and other T-ALL samples, no wild-type BCL11B transcripts were detected in the T-ALL sample. Screening of 37 other T-ALLs revealed one additional case with expression of the BCL11B-TRDC fusion transcript. As BCL11B appears to play a key role in T-cell differentiation, BCL11B disruption and disturbed expression may contribute to the development of T-cell malignancies in man.
Comment in    Neuron. 2005 Jan 20;45(2):183-5.
Comment in    Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 2004 Aug;153(1):88-9.
Mouse thymic lymphomas induced by gamma-irradiation exhibited homozygous deletions of the Rit1/Bcl11b tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 12 at high frequencies. Internal deletions of one allele were frequently accompanied by loss of the other allele. In order to elucidate the mechanism of these internal deletions, the sites of breakage and rejoining were examined by PCR mapping and sequencing. The 5' site of the deletions clustered within an approximately 5 kb region of intron 1 and the 3' site was confined to a site in intron 3. These sites contained P and/or N nucleotides and cryptic sequences recognizable by the RAG1/2 recombinase in the vicinity. This suggests that the Rit1 intragenic deletions were generated by endogenous illegitimate V(D)J recombinase activity and such aberrant recombination was also detected by nested PCR of DNA from the thymus of unirradiated mice but not of RAG2-deficient mice. A rough estimate indicated that there reside as many as 10(3)-10(4) thymocytes having Rit1 deletions, assuming the presence of 10(8) thymocytes in the thymus of unirradiated mice. Moreover, the recombination frequency was not affected by gamma-irradiation. These results show no effect of radiation on Rit1 mutations and suggest an indirect mechanism for its role in lymphomagenesis.
Chromatin state of a 2-Mb region harboring Rit1/Bcl11b on mouse chromosome 12 was examined using two distinct methods. One is ChIP assay examining the degree of enrichment with histone H3 methylated at lysine 9 (H3-mLys9) in chromatin and the other is H/E (heterochromatin/euchromatin) assay that measures a chromatin condensation state by using centrifugation. The ChIP assay showed that a 50-kb interval covering the gene and an upstream region constituted chromatin enriched with unmethylated H3-mLys9 in cells expressing Rit1 compared to cells not expressing Rit1. In contrast, regions other than the 50-kb interval did not show much difference in the enrichment between the two different types of cells. On the other hand, H/E assay of two expressing and two non-expressing tissues provided compatible fractionation patterns, suggesting that the chromatin condensation state detected by H/E assay is correlated with the chromatin state controlled by histone H3 tail modification linked to gene expression. These results indicate that the centrifugation-based H/E assay should provide a new approach to the regulation of chromatin structure with respect to its condensation state, complementing ChIP assays.
A cryptic chromosome rearrangement, t(5;14)(q35.1;q32.2), recently identified in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), targets activation of TLX3 at 5q35.1 by juxtaposition with a region downstream of BCL11B at 14q32.2. We describe a novel variant t(5;14) whereby NKX2-5, a related (NK-like family) homeobox gene located approximately 2 Mb telomeric of TLX3, juxtaposes BCL11B in a subset of T-cell ALL cell lines. In this t(5;14) variant, NKX2-5 is expressed instead of TLX3 at both RNA and protein levels. Subsequent expression screening failed to detect involvement of additional NK-like genes in T-cell ALL cells. Our data pinpoint a regulatory region far downstream of BCL11B effecting ectopic homeobox gene activation. This study also identifies in vitro models for both t(5;14) variants and raises questions about diagnostic fluorescence in situ hybridization/reverse transcription-PCR screening in ALL.
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor (COUP-TF)-interacting proteins 1 and 2 (CTIP1 and CTIP2) enhance transcriptional repression mediated by COUP-TF II and have been implicated in hematopoietic cell development and malignancies. CTIP1 and CTIP2 are also sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins that repress transcription through direct, COUP-TF-in-dependent binding to a GC-rich response element. CTIP1- and CTIP2-mediated transcriptional repression is insensitive to trichostatin A, an inhibitor of known class I and II histone deacetylases. However, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that expression of CTIP2 in mammalian cells resulted in deacetylation of histones H3 and/or H4 that were associated with the promoter region of a reporter gene. CTIP2-mediated transcriptional repression, as well as deacetylation of promoter-associated histones H3/H4 in CTIP2-transfected cells, was reversed by nicotinamide, an inhibitor of class III histone deacetylases such as the mammalian homologs of yeast Silent Information Regulator 2 (Sir2). The human homolog of yeast Sir2, SIRT1, was found to interact directly with CTIP2 and was recruited to the promoter template in a CTIP2-dependent manner. Moreover, SIRT1 enhanced the deacetylation of template-associated histones H3/H4 in CTIP2-transfected cells, and stimulated CTIP2-dependent transcriptional repression. Finally, endogenous SIRT1 and CTIP2 co-purified from Jurkat cell nuclear extracts in the context of a large (1-2 mDa) complex. These findings implicate SIRT1 as a histone H3/H4 deacetylase in mammalian cells and in transcriptional repression mediated by CTIP2.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2003 Jun;4(6):512-4.
Cytogenetic analysis of a pediatric T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cell line (HPB-ALL) revealed the cryptic t(5;14)(q35;q32.2), recently found in 15-20% pediatric T-ALL patients, with 5q35 and 14q32.2 breakpoints at 5'-HOX11L2 and 3'-BCL11B, respectively. Expression of both BCL11B, which is hematologically restricted to T cells, and HOX11L2 was detected, whereas adjacent genes at 5q35 (RANBP17) and 14q32 (VRK1, HSU88895) were not dysregulated. Apparently, t(5;14)(q35;q32.2) serves to activate HOX11L2 by juxtaposition with elements downstream of BCL11B, implying a novel dysregulatory mechanism comparable to TCRA/D or IGH juxtaposition. As well as providing molecular cytogenetic documentation of t(5;14) ALL, this report validates HPB-ALL cells for investigating this important new disease entity in vitro.
Allelic loss (LOH) mapping and sequence analysis were conducted for gamma-ray induced mouse thymic lymphomas and a novel tumor suppressor gene, Rit1/Bcl11b, on chromosome 12 was isolated. Bi-allelic changes were found in 17 of the 66 p53-proficient lymphomas with Rit1 LOH but in only 2 of the 54 p53-deficient lymphomas. This suggests an association between the presence of functional p53 and inactivation of the Rit1 gene in the lymphoma development. Introduction of Rit1 into HeLa cells lacking Rit1 expression suppressed cell growth. These results indicate that loss-of-function mutations of Rit1 contribute to mouse lymphomagenesis and possibly to human cancer development.
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor (COUP-TF)-interacting proteins 1 and 2 [CTIP1/Evi9/B cell leukaemia (Bcl) l1a and CTIP2/Bcl11b respectively] are highly related C(2)H(2) zinc finger proteins that are abundantly expressed in brain and the immune system, and are associated with immune system malignancies. A selection procedure was employed to isolate high-affinity DNA binding sites for CTIP1. The core binding site on DNA identified in these studies, 5'-GGCCGG-3' (upper strand), is highly related to the canonical GC box and was bound by a CTIP1 oligomeric complex(es) in vitro. Furthermore, both CTIP1 and CTIP2 repressed transcription of a reporter gene harbouring a multimerized CTIP binding site, and this repression was neither reversed by trichostatin A (an inhibitor of known class I and II histone deacetylases) nor stimulated by co-transfection of a COUP-TF family member. These results demonstrate that CTIP1 is a sequence-specific DNA binding protein and a bona fide transcriptional repressor that is capable of functioning independently of COUP-TF family members. These findings may be relevant to the physiological and/or pathological action(s) of CTIPs in cells that do not express COUP-TF family members, such as cells of the haematopoietic and immune systems.
Many malignancies of mature B cells are characterized by chromosomal translocations involving the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) locus on chromosome 14q32.3 and result in deregulated expression of the translocated oncogene. t(2;14)(p13;q32.3) is a rare event in B-cell malignancies. In contrast, gains and amplifications of the same region of chromosome 2p13 have been reported in 20% of extranodal B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (B-NHL), in follicular and mediastinal B-NHL, and in Hodgkin disease (HD). It has been suggested that REL, an NF-kappaB gene family member, mapping within the amplified region, is the pathologic target. However, by molecular cloning of t(2;14)(p13;q32.3) from 3 cases of aggressive B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/immunocytoma, this study has shown clustered breakpoints on chromosome 2p13 immediately upstream of a CpG island located about 300 kb telomeric of REL. This CpG island was associated with a Krüppel zinc finger gene (BCL11A), which is normally expressed at high levels only in fetal brain and in germinal center B-cells. There were 3 major RNA isoforms of BCL11A, differing in the number of carboxy-terminal zinc fingers. All 3 RNA isoforms were deregulated as a consequence of t(2;14)(p13;q32.3). BCL11A was highly conserved, being 95% identical to mouse, chicken, and Xenopus homologues. BCL11A was also highly homologous to another gene (BCL11B) on chromosome 14q32.1. BCL11A coamplified with REL in B-NHL cases and HD lymphoma cell lines with gains and amplifications of 2p13, suggesting that BCL11A may be involved in lymphoid malignancies through either chromosomal translocation or amplification.
