Horizontal basal cells (HBCs) residing within severely damaged olfactory epithelium (OE) mediate OE regeneration by differentiating into odorant detecting olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) and other tissue supporting non-neuronal cell types. Within various regenerative tissues, the Notch signaling pathway can either positively or negatively regulate resident stem cell activity and potentially vary with tissue integrity. Although Notch1 specifies HBC dormancy in the uninjured OE, little is known about how HBCs are influenced by the Notch pathway following OE injury. Here, we show that HBCs depend on a functional inversion of the Notch pathway to appropriately mediate OE regeneration. At 24 hours post-injury, HBCs enhance Notch1-mediated signaling. Moreover, at 3 days post-injury when the regenerating OE is composed of multiple cell layers, HBCs enrich both Notch1 and the Notch ligand, Dll1. Notably, HBC-specific Notch1 knockout increases HBC quiescence and impairs HBC differentiation into neuronal progenitors and OSNs. Interestingly, complete HBC knockout of Dll1 only decreases differentiation of HBC-derived OSNs. These data underscore the context-dependent nature of Notch signaling. Furthermore, they reveal that HBCs regulate their own neurogenic potential after OE injury.
BACKGROUND: Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a chronic disease with high prevalence. There are currently many treatments available. However, despite an often good therapeutic response, many patients still report impairment in quality of life (QoL) during the pollen season. A skewed T helper (Th)2 polarization is a well-acknowledged pathologic feature of AR. In animal models, local notch signaling in peripheral tissue seems crucial for Th2 cell differentiation and the development of AR. However, the involvement of Notch signaling in Th2 cell differentiation and the development of AR in humans remains unknown. Hence, the present study investigated the human expression of Notch receptors on CD4+ T-cells in nasal mucosa and blood. Correspondingly Notch ligand expression was assessed on nasal epithelial cells and neutrophils.METHODOLOGY: Nasal brush and blood samples from 18 patients with pollen-induced AR and 22 healthy controls were collected outside the pollen season. Notch 1-4 and Jagged-1,2 and Delta-like ligand 1,3-4 was analyzed using flow cytometry.RESULTS: The fraction of CD4+Notch1+ and CD4+Notch4+ T-cells was higher in AR patients than in healthy control patients. Further, the expression levels of the Notch ligands JAG-1 and DLL-1 were increased in nasal epithelial cells from AR patients compared to healthy control patients. In addition, AR patients displayed higher expression of JAG-1 on neutrophils both in the nasal mucosa and in peripheral blood.CONCLUSION: The present study is the first to demonstrate increased activity in the Notch1/4 - JAG-1/DLL-1 pathways among allergic individuals. Further propagating the importance of Notch signalling in AR and blocking JAG-1 and DLL-1-induced Notch signalling by nasal epithelial cells and Neutrophils are potential targets to reduce allergic airway inflammation.
BACKGROUND: The previous studies have revealed that abnormal RNA-binding protein Musashi-2 (MSI2) expression is associated with cancer progression through post-transcriptional mechanisms, however mechanistic details of this regulation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) still remain unclear. Our study aimed to explore the relationship between microRNA-143 (miR-143) and MSI2 and to clarify their clinical significance, biological function and mechanism.METHODS: Abnormal expression of miR-143 and MSI2 were evaluated in bone marrow samples from AML patients by quantitative real time-PCR. Effects of miR-143 on regulating MSI2 expression were investigated using luciferase reporter assay. Functional roles of MSI2 and miR-143 on AML cell proliferation and migration were determined by CCK-8 assay, colony formation, and transwell assays in vitro and in mouse subcutaneous xenograft and orthotopic transplantation models in vivo. RNA immunoprecipitation, RNA stability measurement and Western blotting were performed to assess the effects of MSI2 on AML.RESULTS: We found that MSI2 was significantly overexpressed in AML and exerted its role of promoting AML cell growth by targeting DLL1 and thereby activating Notch signaling pathway. Moreover, we found that MSI2 bound to Snail1 transcript and inhibited its degradation, which in turn upregulated the expression of matrix metalloproteinases. We also found that MSI2 targeting miR-143 is downregulated in AML. In the AML xenograft mouse model, overexpression of MSI2 recapitulated its leukemia-promoting effects, and overexpression of miR-143 partially attenuated tumor growth and prevented metastasis. Notably, low expression of miR-143, and high expression of MSI2 were associated with poor prognosis in AML patients.CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that MSI2 exerts its malignant properties via DLL1/Notch1 cascade and the Snail1/MMPs axes in AML, and upregulation of miR-143 may be a potential therapeutic approach for AML.
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) is a precursor of liver cirrhosis, and activated hepatic stellate cells are an important driver of fibrosis. F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7 (FBXW7) expression level is down-regulated in HF, but the underlying mechanism is yet to be elucidated. The interaction between FBXW7 and delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1) was predicted. LX-2 cells were subjected to transfection of FBXW7/DLL1 silencing or overexpression plasmid. The expressions of FBXW7 and DLL1 in HF in vitro were measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and western blot. The LX-2 cell cycle, viability, proliferation, and ubiquitination were determined by flow cytometry, cell counting kit-8, colony formation, and ubiquitination assays, respectively. FBXW7 overexpression suppressed the cell viability and proliferation, facilitated cell cycle arrest, and down-regulated α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), Collagen I, and DLL1 protein levels, but FBXW7 silencing did the opposite. DLL1 was bound to and ubiquitin-dependently degraded by FBXW7 overexpression. DLL1 overexpression promoted the cell viability and proliferation, accelerated cell cycle, and up-regulated the levels of α-SMA, Collagen I, NOTCH2, NOTCH3, and HES1, but these trends were reversed by FBXW7 overexpression. To sum up, FBXW7 overexpression suppresses the progression of HF in vitro by ubiquitin-dependently degrading DLL1.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive malignant blood disorder with a high rate of relapse. Patients relapse as a result of minimal residual disease (MRD), which originates from residual T-ALL cells in the bone marrow microenvironment (BMM). In the present study, it is observed that adipocytes increase dramatically in the BMM of T-ALL patients after exposure to chemotherapeutic drugs. Then, it is proved that adipocytes attract T-ALL cells by releasing CXCL13 and support leukemia cell survival by activating the Notch1 signaling pathway via DLL1 and Notch1 binding. Furthermore, it is verified that dexamethasone (DEX) induces adipogenic differentiation by enhancing the expression of SREBF1 in bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells (BMSCs), and an SREBF1 inhibitor significantly decreases the adipogenic potential of BMSCs and the subsequent ability of adipocytes to support T-ALL cells in vitro and in vivo. These findings confirm that the differentiation of BMSCs to adipocytes induced by DEX contributes to MRD in T-ALL and provides an auxiliary clinical treatment to reduce the recurrence rate.
OBJECTIVES: The Notch signaling pathway has been implicated in the pathogenesis of active tuberculosis (TB), and Th1-type cell-mediated immunity is essential for effective control of mycobacterial infection. However, it remains unclear whether Notch signaling molecules (Notch1, DLL1, and Hes1) and Th1-type factors (T-bet and IFN-γ) can serve as biomarkers for tracking the progression of active TB at different stages along with peripheral blood white blood cell (WBC) parameters.METHODS: A total of 60 participants were enrolled in the study, including 37 confirmed TB patients (mild (n=17), moderate/severe (n=20)) and 23 healthy controls. The mRNA expression of Notch1, DLL1, Hes1, T-bet and IFN-γ in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of the subjects was measured by RT-qPCR, then analyzed for differences. Receiver Operating Characteristic curve (ROC) was used to assess the effectiveness of each factor as a biomarker in identifying lung injury.RESULTS: We found that mRNA expression levels of Notch1, DLL1, and Hes1 were upregulated in active TB patients, with higher levels observed in those with moderate/severe TB than those with mild TB or without TB. In contrast, mRNA levels of T-bet and IFN-γ were downregulated and significantly lower in mild and moderate/severe cases. Furthermore, the combiROC analysis of IFN-γ and the percentage of lymphocytes (L%) among WBC parameters showed superior discriminatory ability compared to other factors for identifying individuals with active TB versus healthy individuals. Notably, Notch pathway molecules were more effective than Th1-type factors and WBC parameters in differentiating mild and moderate/severe cases of active TB, particularly in the combiROC model that included Notch1 and Hes1.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that Notch1, Hes1, IFN-γ, and L% can be used as biomarkers to identify different stages of active TB patients and to monitor the effectiveness of treatment.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) play essential roles in the initiation and progression of human tumors, including cervical cancer. However, the mechanisms underlying their actions in cervical cancer remain unclear. The present study aimed to evaluate the functional role of miR‑130a‑3p in cervical cancer. Cervical cancer cells were transfected with a miRNA inhibitor (anti‑miR‑130a‑3p) and a negative control. Adhesion‑independent cell proliferation, migration and invasion were evaluated. The findings presented herein demonstrated that miR‑130a‑3p was overexpressed in HeLa, SiHa, CaSki, C‑4I and HCB‑514 cervical cancer cells. The inhibition of miR‑130a‑3p significantly reduced the proliferation, migration and invasion of cervical cancer cells. The canonical delta‑like Notch1 ligand (DLL1) was identified as a possible direct target of miR‑103a‑3p. The DLL1 gene was further found to be significantly downregulated in cervical cancer tissues. On the whole, the present study demonstrates that miR‑130a‑3p contributes to the proliferation, migration and invasion of cervical cancer cells. Therefore, miR‑130a‑3p may be used as a biomarker to determine cervical cancer progression.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Qi-Sai-Er-Sang-Dang-Song Decoction (QSD, ཆུ་སེར་སེང་ལྡེང་སུམ་ཐང་།), a Tibetan classical herbal formula, is commonly used in Tibetan hospital preparation for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Its efficacy is to relieve inflammation, dispel cold, remove dampness, and alleviate pain. However, its anti-RA mechanism is still unclear.AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to investigate the effect of QSD on rheumatoid arthritis and explore its anti-inflammatory mechanism against human fibroblast-like synoviocytes (HFLSs) by regulating the notch family of receptors (NOTCH1)/Nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)/nucleotide-binding (NLRP3) pathway.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with Q-TOF mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS) to identify the chemical composition of QSD. Then, HFLSs were exposed to drug-containing serum. The effect of QSD drug-containing serum on HFLS viability was detected using the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. Next, we explored the anti-inflammatory effect of QSD using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for inflammatory factors, such as interleukin-18 (IL-18), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). The expression of NOTCH-related proteins, a member of the NOTCH1, Cleaved NOTCH1, hairy and enhancer of split-1 (HES-1), NF-κB p65, NF-κB pp65, NLRP3, and delta-like 1 (DLL-1), was examined using western blotting. Furthermore, the relative mRNA expression levels of NOTCH1, NF-κB p65, NLRP3, DLL-1, and HES-1 were detected using real-time quantitative (RT-qPCR). To explore the mechanism underlying the anti-RA effect of QSD, we the used the NOTCH signaling pathway inhibitor LY411575 and transfection with a NOTCH1 siRNA. In addition, we employed immunofluorescence to determine the expression of HES-1 and NF-κB p65 in vitro.RESULT: Our results revealed that QSD ameliorated inflammation in HFLSs. Compared with the model group, the QSD drug-containing serum group had obviously down-regulated levels of IL-18, IL-1β, and IL-6. Consistently, the CCK-8 results showed that the QSD drug-containing serum had no obvious toxicity towards HFLSs. Moreover, both LY411575 and siNOTCH1, QSD could reduce NOTCH1, NLRP3, and HES-1 protein expression levels, and LY411575 could significantly inhibit the expression levels of NF-κB p65, NF-κB pp65, and Cleaved NOTCH1 (p < 0.05). siNOTCH1 could also suppress the expression of DLL-1. The RT-qPCR results indicated that QSD could downregulate the relative mRNA expression levels of NOTCH1, NF-κB p65, NLRP3, DLL-1, and HES-1 in HFLSs (p < 0.05). In the immunofluorescence experiment, the fluorescence intensities of HES-1 and NF-κB p65 in HFLSs were found to decrease after exposure to QSD drug-containing serum (p < 0.05). Ultimately, 44 chemical components were detected in QSD using UPLC-Q-TOF-MS.CONCLUSION: This study reveals that the QSD can markedly ameliorate inflammation induced by TNF-α on HFLS. The effect of QSD on HFLS may be exerted by inhibition of the NOTCH1/NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling pathway.
BACKGROUND: Terminal 6q deletions are rare, and the number of well-defined published cases is limited. Since parents of children with these aberrations often search the internet and unite via international social media platforms, these dedicated platforms may hold valuable knowledge about additional cases. The Chromosome 6 Project is a collaboration between researchers and clinicians at the University Medical Center Groningen and members of a Chromosome 6 support group on Facebook. The aim of the project is to improve the surveillance of patients with chromosome 6 aberrations and the support for their families by increasing the available information about these rare aberrations. This parent-driven research project makes use of information collected directly from parents via a multilingual online questionnaire. Here, we report our findings on 93 individuals with terminal 6q deletions and 11 individuals with interstitial 6q26q27 deletions, a cohort that includes 38 newly identified individuals.RESULTS: Using this cohort, we can identify a common terminal 6q deletion phenotype that includes microcephaly, dysplastic outer ears, hypertelorism, vision problems, abnormal eye movements, dental abnormalities, feeding problems, recurrent infections, respiratory problems, spinal cord abnormalities, abnormal vertebrae, scoliosis, joint hypermobility, brain abnormalities (ventriculomegaly/hydrocephaly, corpus callosum abnormality and cortical dysplasia), seizures, hypotonia, ataxia, torticollis, balance problems, developmental delay, sleeping problems and hyperactivity. Other frequently reported clinical characteristics are congenital heart defects, kidney problems, abnormalities of the female genitalia, spina bifida, anal abnormalities, positional foot deformities, hypertonia and self-harming behaviour. The phenotypes were comparable up to a deletion size of 7.1 Mb, and most features could be attributed to the terminally located gene DLL1. Larger deletions that include QKI (> 7.1 Mb) lead to a more severe phenotype that includes additional clinical characteristics.CONCLUSIONS: Terminal 6q deletions cause a common but highly variable phenotype. Most clinical characteristics can be linked to the smallest terminal 6q deletions that include the gene DLL1 (> 500 kb). Based on our findings, we provide recommendations for clinical follow-up and surveillance of individuals with terminal 6q deletions.
The Notch ligands Jag1 and Dll1 guide differentiation of multipotent pancreatic progenitor cells (MPCs) into unipotent pro-acinar cells (PACs) and bipotent duct/endocrine progenitors (BPs). Ligand-mediated trans-activation of Notch receptors induces oscillating expression of the transcription factor Hes1, while ligand-receptor cis-interaction indirectly represses Hes1 activation. Despite Dll1 and Jag1 both displaying cis- and trans-interactions, the two mutants have different phenotypes for reasons not fully understood. Here, we present a mathematical model that recapitulates the spatiotemporal differentiation of MPCs into PACs and BPs. The model correctly captures cell fate changes in Notch pathway knockout mice and small molecule inhibitor studies, and a requirement for oscillatory Hes1 expression to maintain the multipotent state. Crucially, the model entails cell-autonomous attenuation of Notch signaling by Jag1-mediated cis-inhibition in MPC differentiation. The model sheds light on the underlying mechanisms, suggesting that cis-interaction is crucial for exiting the multipotent state, while trans-interaction is required for adopting the bipotent fate.
PM2.5 can affect the lipid metabolism and cause atherosclerosis. Abnormal lipid metabolism is a sever risk factor of atherosclerosis and the underlying molecular mechanism still remains unclear. In this study, GPL16956 Agilent-045997 Arraystar human lncRNA microarray V3 (Probe Name Version) platform was used to detect the different genes of lipid metabolism between the normal arterial intima and advanced atherosclerotic plaque, which were downloaded from GEO database. A high-fat diet and vitamin D3 were administered to Wistar rats to establish the atherosclerotic model and another normal healthy 56 rats were used as the non-atherosclerotic exposure groups. The atherosclerotic rats and non-atherosclerotic rats were randomly divided into 4 PM2.5 groups (0, 1.5, 7.5, 37.5 mg/kg), respectively. The results of bioinformatics showed changes in the Notch1, Dll1, Hes1, LDLR and ABCG1 levels. PM2.5 exposure could produce damage to the physiological structure of the aorta, and aggravate atherosclerosis in rats from both non-atherosclerotic and atherosclerotic groups. With the increase of the exposure dose, the levels of TC and TG significantly increased. PM2.5 exposure significantly affected the expression levels of PPARγ, ABCA1, LDLR, CD36, SR-BI and SREBP2. PM2.5 exposure could also affect the expression levels of the Notch signaling pathways which was significantly correlated with the levels of TC and TG. The results proved that PM2.5 exposure could induce and aggravate the atherosclerosis in rats by disrupting lipid metabolism in which Notch signaling pathway may play a significant role.
INTRODUCTION: The Notch pathway is fundamental for the generation of neurons during development. We previously reported that adult mice heterozygous for the null allele of the gene encoding the Delta-like ligand 1 for Notch (Dll1lacZ ) have a reduced neuronal density in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The aim of the present work was to evaluate whether this alteration extends to other brain structures and the behavioral consequences of affected subjects.METHODS: Brains of Dll1 +/lacZ embryos and mice at different ages were phenotypically compared against their wild type (WT) counterpart. Afterwards, brain histological analyses were performed followed by determinations of neural cell markers in tissue slices. Neurological deficits were diagnosed by applying different behavioral tests to Dll1 +/lacZ and WT mice.RESULTS: Brain weight and size of Dll1 +/lacZ mice was significantly decreased compared with WT littermates (i.e., microcephaly), a phenotype detected early after birth. Interestingly, enlarged ventricles (i.e., hydrocephalus) was a common characteristic of brains of Dll1 haploinsufficient mice since early ages. At the cell level, general cell density and number of neurons in several brain regions, including the cortex and hippocampus, of Dll1 +/lacZ mice were reduced as compared with those regions of WT mice. Also, fewer neural stem cells were particularly found in the adult dentate gyrus of Dll1 +/lacZ mice but not in the subventricular zone. High myelination levels detected at early postnatal ages (P7-P24) were an additional penetrant phenotype in Dll1 +/lacZ mice, observation that was consistent with premature oligodendrocyte differentiation. After applying a set of behavioral tests, mild neurological alterations were detected that caused changes in motor behaviors and a deficit in object categorization.DISCUSSION: Our observations suggest that Dll1 haploinsufficiency limits Notch signaling during brain development which, on one hand, leads to reduced brain cell density and causes microcephaly and hydrocephalus phenotypes and, on the other, alters the myelination process after birth. The severity of these defects could reach levels that affect normal brain function. Therefore, Dll1 haploinsufficiency is a risk factor that predisposes the brain to develop abnormalities with functional consequences.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a potentially life-threatening disease that is common in the aging population. Currently, there are no approved diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic drugs for AAA. We aimed to identify novel plasma biomarkers or potential therapeutic targets for AAA using a high-throughput protein array-based method. Proteomics expression profiles were investigated in plasma from AAA patients and healthy controls (HC) using 440-cytokine protein array analysis. Several promising biomarkers were further validated in independent cohorts using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Thirty-nine differentially expressed plasma proteins were identified between AAA and HC. Legumain (LGMN) was significantly higher in AAA patients and was validated in another large cohort. Additionally, "AAA without diabetes" (AAN) patients and "AAA complicated with type 2 diabetes mellitus" (AAM) patients had different cytokine expression patterns in their plasma, and nine plasma proteins were differentially expressed among the AAN, AAM, and HC subjects. Delta-like protein 1 (DLL1), receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-3 (ERBB3), and dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPPIV) were significantly higher in AAM than in AAN. This study identified several promising plasma biomarkers of AAA. Their role as therapeutic targets for AAA warrants further investigation.
Salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is a rare, biologically unique biphasic tumor that consists of malignant myoepithelial and luminal cells. MYB and Notch signaling have been implicated in ACC pathophysiology, but in vivo descriptions of these two programs in human tumors and investigation into their active coordination remain incomplete. We utilize single-cell RNA sequencing to profile human head and neck ACC, including a comparison of primary ACC with a matched local recurrence. We define expression heterogeneity in these rare tumors, uncovering diversity in myoepithelial and luminal cell expression. We find differential expression of Notch ligands DLL1, JAG1, and JAG2 in myoepithelial cells, suggesting a paracrine interaction that may support oncogenic Notch signaling. We validate this selective expression in three published cohorts of patients with ACC. Our data provide a potential explanation for the biphasic nature of low- and intermediate-grade ACC and may help direct new therapeutic strategies against these tumors.
Notch signaling via NOTCH1 stimulated by Delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4) is required for the development of T cells in thymus, and NOTCH2 stimulated by Notch ligand DLL1 is required for the development of marginal zone (MZ) B cells in spleen. Notch signaling also regulates myeloid cell production in bone marrow and is an essential contributor to the generation of early hematopoietic stem cells (HSC). The differentiation program in each of these cellular contexts is optimized by the regulation of Notch signaling strength by O-glycans attached to epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats in the extracellular domain of Notch receptors. There are three major types of O-glycan on NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 - O-fucose, O-glucose and O-GlcNAc. The initiating sugar of each O-glycan is added in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by glycosyltransferases POFUT1 (fucose), POGLUT1/2/3 (glucose) or EOGT (GlcNAc), respectively. Additional sugars are added in the Golgi compartment during passage through the secretory pathway to the plasma membrane. Of particular significance for Notch signaling is the addition of GlcNAc to O-fucose on an EGF repeat by the Fringe GlcNAc-transferases LFNG, MFNG or RFNG. Canonical Notch ligands (DLL1, DLL4, JAG1, JAG2) expressed in stromal cells bind to the extracellular domain of Notch receptors expressed in hematopoietic stem cells and myeloid and lymphoid progenitors to activate Notch signaling. Ligand-receptor binding is differentially regulated by the O-glycans on Notch. This review will summarize our understanding of the regulation of Notch signaling in myeloid and lymphoid cell development by specific O-glycans in mice with dysregulated expression of a particular glycosyltransferase and discuss how this may impact immune system development and malignancy in general, and in individuals with a congenital defect in the synthesis of the O-glycans attached to EGF repeats.
INTRODUCTION: We investigated the molecular mechanism by which B lymphocytes regulate Th1/Th2 imbalance to participate in the pulmonary fibrosis in hypersensitivity pneumonia induced by pigeon shedding in rats.METHODS: CD19+ rats and CD19- rats were used to construct animal models of fibrotic hypersensitivity pneumonia. DAPT was used to inhibit the Notch signaling pathway. The pathological changes were assessed with HE and Masson staining. Protein level was detected with Western blot. Th1/Th2 ratio was analyzed with flow cytometry. Cytokine levels were measured with ELISA.RESULTS: The pathological changes of pulmonary fibrosis were not obvious in the CD19- rats and after DAPT treatment. Notch signaling pathway proteins, including Notch1, Notch2, Jag1, Jag2, DLL1, and DLL4, in lung tissues of model rats were all significantly upregulated than those in control rats. However, these proteins in CD19- rats were lower in CD19+ rats, suggesting that B cells play a key role in inducing pneumonia. Besides, the Th1/Th2 ratio in the BALF of model rats decreased, which was further reversed by DAPT. However, we found that in CD19- rats, the regulation of the Th1/Th2 ratio by the Notch signaling pathway was lost.CONCLUSION: Deleting B lymphocytes or blocking the Notch pathway both reversed the Th1/Th2 imbalance in fibrotic hypersensitivity pneumonia and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis.
Non-human primates are important models for investigations of neural development and evolution, and the use of Japanese macaque monkeys has especially contributed to the advancement of neuroscience studies. However, these studies are restricted by the number of animals able to be evaluated and the invasiveness of the methodologies. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) can provide an alternative strategy for investigating neural development in vitro. We have established direct neurosphere (dNS) formation cultures of primate iPSCs as an in vitro model of early neurodevelopment in primate species. Here, we used dNS formation and neuronal differentiation cultures established from Japanese macaque iPSCs (jm-iPSCs) to investigate the usefulness of these cells as an in vitro model of early neural development. Time-course analyses of developmental potency and gene expression kinetics were performed during dNS formation culture of jm-iPSCs. During a 1-week culture, jm-iPSC-derived dNSs became neurogenic by day 3 and underwent stepwise expression changes of key developmental regulators along early neural development in a similar manner to chimpanzee dNS formation previously reported. Meanwhile, a subset of genes, including CYP26A1 and NPTX1, showed differential expression propensity in Japanese macaque, chimpanzee, and human iPSC-derived dNSs. Spontaneous upregulation of NOTCH signaling-associated genes HES5 and DLL1 was also observed in neuronal differentiation cultures of Japanese macaque but not chimpanzee dNSs, possibly reflecting the earlier neurogenic competence in Japanese macaques. The use of jm-iPSCs provides an alternative approach to neurological studies of primate development. Furthermore, jm-iPSCs can be used to investigate species differences in early neural development that are key to primate evolution.
In vertebrates, Nodal signaling plays a major role in endomesoderm induction, but germ layer delimitation is poorly understood. In avian embryos, the neural/mesoderm boundary is controlled by the transcription factor CHURCHILL1, presumably through the repressor ZEB2, but there is scarce knowledge about its role in other vertebrates. During amphibian gastrulation, Delta/Notch signaling refines germ layer boundaries in the marginal zone, but it is unknown the place this pathway occupies in the network comprising Churchill1 and Nodal. Here, we show that &lt;i&gt;Xenopus churchill1&lt;/i&gt; is expressed in the presumptive neuroectoderm at mid-blastula transition and during gastrulation, upregulates &lt;i&gt;zeb2&lt;/i&gt;, prevents &lt;i&gt;dll1&lt;/i&gt; expression in the neuroectoderm, and favors neuroectoderm over endomesoderm development. Nodal signaling prevents &lt;i&gt;dll1&lt;/i&gt; expression in the endoderm but induces it in the presumptive mesoderm, from where it activates Notch1 and its target gene &lt;i&gt;hes4&lt;/i&gt; in the non-involuting marginal zone. We propose a model where Nodal and Churchill1 position Dll1/Notch1/Hes4 domains in the marginal zone, ensuring the delimitation between mesoderm and neuroectoderm.
Author information:(1)Tuberculosis Prevention and Control Key Laboratory/Beijing Key Laboratory of New Techniques of Tuberculosis Diagnosis and Treatment, Senior Department of Tuberculosis, the Eighth Medical Center of PLA General Hospital, Beijing 100091, China.
Notch ligands are expression changes in a great many malignancies including gastric cancer (GC) frequently. The prognostic value of each Notch ligands in GC patients remains lack of large sample data results. In present research, we researched the prognostic value of Notch ligands in GC patients in order to fill the shortage areas. We used an online database ( http://kmplot.com/analysis/index.php?p=service&amp;cancer=gastric ) to identify the relationship between mRNA expression of each Notch ligand and overall survival (OS) in GC. We analyze the relevance of overall survival and clinical data which includes gender, Lauren's classification, differentiation, clinical stage and treatment. The study found that high DLL1, DLL3, DLL4 and JAG2 mRNA expression were tied to worse OS in all GC patients followed up for 10 years. There is no significant relevance to the expression of JAG1 mRNA and OS in patients with GC. We also did a survey of each Notch ligands in different clinical and pathological features present different prognosis. The information will help to better understand the biology of gastric cancer heterogeneity, provide more accurate prognostic evaluation tools and provide new targets for targeted drug development besides.
BACKGROUND: Selective activation of Delta-like 1 (DLL1)-Notch signaling is a new approach to activate CD8+ T cell and suppress tumor growth, while the efficacy remains modest. Lentinan (LNT) is a clinically used immunomodulation agent. Thus, we hypothesized that LNT could improve the efficacy of DLL1.METHODS: The effects of LNT combined with DLL1 on tumor growth were evaluated by growth curve and tumor weight in EO771 breast and LAP0297 lung tumor models. The impacts on immune cells and gene expression in tumor tissues were determined by flow cytometry, qPCR. Neutrophil depletion was used to investigate the mechanism of the combination therapy on tumor growth. The data sets were compared using unpaired student's t-test or ordinary one-way ANOVA.RESULTS:  LNT treatments additively improved the antitumor effects of DLL1 in EO771 breast tumor growth. Remarkably, LNT treatments synergistically enhanced the suppression of DLL1 on LAP0297 lung tumor growth, resulting in tumor regression. Mechanically, the combination of LNT and DLL1 interventions not only promoted the accumulation and activation of CD8+ T cells, but also increased intratumoral CD45+CD11b+Ly6G+ neutrophils. Reduced neutrophils by anti-Gr1 antibody administrations reversed the improved antitumor effects by LNT treatments in LAP0297 lung tumor. These results suggest that LNT treatments improve the inhibition of DLL1 on tumor growth via neutrophils.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicates that LNT and DLL1 may induce synergistical antitumor immunity via simultaneous modulating lymphoid and myeloid cell populations regardless of the type of tumor, providing a potential new strategy to potentiate cancer immunotherapy.
Dll1+ breast cancer cells activate Notch signaling in cancer-associated fibroblasts that increases Wnt ligand secretion and leads to β-catenin-driven radioresistance and metastasis, opening new therapeutic avenues for breast cancer.
Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCL) are agressive lymphomas that develop from mature T cells. The most common PTCLs are genetically, molecularly, and clinically diverse and are generally associated with dismal outcomes. While Notch signaling plays a critically important role in both the development of immature T cells and their malignant transformation, its role in PTCL is poorly understood, despite the increasingly appreciated function of Notch in regulating the proliferation and differentiation of mature T cells. Here, we demonstrate that Notch receptors and their Delta-like family ligands (DLL1/DLL4) play a pathogenic role in PTCL. Notch1 activation was observed in common PTCL subtypes, including PTCL-not otherwise specified (NOS). In a large cohort of PTCL-NOS biopsies, Notch1 activation was significantly associated with surrogate markers of proliferation. Complementary genetically engineered mouse models and spontaneous PTCL models were used to functionally examine the role of Notch signaling, and Notch1/Notch2 blockade and pan-Notch blockade using dominant-negative MAML significantly impaired the proliferation of malignant T cells and PTCL progression in these models. Treatment with DLL1/DLL4 blocking antibodies established that Notch signaling is ligand-dependent. Together, these findings reveal a role for ligand-dependent Notch signaling in driving peripheral T-cell lymphomagenesis.SIGNIFICANCE: This work demonstrates that ligand-dependent Notch activation promotes the growth and proliferation of mature T-cell lymphomas, providing new therapeutic strategies for this group of aggressive lymphomas.
BACKGROUND: Elucidation of the post-transcriptional modification has led to novel strategies to treat intractable tumors, especially glioblastoma (GBM). The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) mediates a reversible, stringent and stepwise post-translational modification which is closely associated with malignant processes of GBM. To this end, developing novel therapeutic approaches to target the UPS may contribute to the treatment of this disease. This study aimed to screen the vital and aberrantly regulated component of the UPS in GBM. Based on the molecular identification, functional characterization, and mechanism investigation, we sought to elaborate a novel therapeutic strategy to target this vital factor to combat GBM.METHODS: We combined glioma datasets and human patient samples to screen and identify aberrantly regulated E3 ubiquitin ligase. Multidimensional database analysis and molecular and functional experiments in vivo and in vitro were used to evaluate the roles of HECT, UBA and WWE domain-containing E3 ubiquitin ligase 1 (HUWE1) in GBM. dCas9 synergistic activation mediator system and recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) were used to endogenously overexpress full-length HUWE1 in vitro and in glioma orthotopic xenografts.RESULTS: Low expression of HUWE1 was closely associated with worse prognosis of GBM patients. The ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of N-Myc mediated by HUWE1, leading to the inactivation of downstream Delta-like 1 (DLL1)-NOTCH1 signaling pathways, inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and migration of GBM cells in vitro and in vivo. A rAAV dual-vector system for packaging and delivery of dCas9-VP64 was used to augment endogenous HUWE1 expression in vivo and showed an antitumor activity in glioma orthotopic xenografts.CONCLUSIONS: The E3 ubiquitin ligase HUWE1 acts through the N-Myc-DLL1-NOTCH1 signaling axis to suppress GBM progression. Antitumor activity of rAAV dual-vector delivering dCas9-HUWE1 system uncovers a promising therapeutic strategy for GBM.
Erratum for    Nat Commun. 2021 Jan 18;12(1):432.
OBJECTIVE: Oesophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) arises in the setting of Barrett's oesophagus, an intestinal metaplastic precursor lesion that can develop in patients with chronic GERD. Here, we investigated the role of acidic bile salts, the mimicry of reflux, in activation of NOTCH signaling in EAC.DESIGN: This study used public databases, EAC cell line models, L2-IL1β transgenic mouse model and human EAC tissue samples to identify mechanisms of NOTCH activation under reflux conditions.RESULTS: Analysis of public databases demonstrated significant upregulation of NOTCH signaling components in EAC. In vitro studies demonstrated nuclear accumulation of active NOTCH1 cleaved fragment (NOTCH intracellular domain) and upregulation of NOTCH targets in EAC cells in response to reflux conditions. Additional investigations identified DLL1 as the predominant ligand contributing to NOTCH1 activation under reflux conditions. We discovered a novel crosstalk between APE1 redox function, reflux-induced inflammation and DLL1 upregulation where NF-κB can directly bind to and induce the expression of DLL1. The APE1 redox function was crucial for activation of the APE1-NF-κB-NOTCH axis and promoting cancer cell stem-like properties in response to reflux conditions. Overexpression of APE1 and DLL1 was detected in gastro-oesophageal junctions of the L2-IL1ß transgenic mouse model and human EAC tissue microarrays. DLL1 high levels were associated with poor overall survival in patients with EAC.CONCLUSION: These findings underscore a unique mechanism that links redox balance, inflammation and embryonic development (NOTCH) into a common pro-tumorigenic pathway that is intrinsic to EAC cells.
Background  Cytogenomic analyses have been used to detect pathogenic copy number variants. Patients with deletions at 6q26-q27 present variable clinical features. We reported clinical and cytogenomic findings of eight unrelated patients with a deletion of 6q26-q27. A systematic review of the literature found 28 patients with a deletion of 6q26-q27 from 2010 to 2020. Results  For these 36 patients, the sex ratio showed equal occurrence between males and females; 29 patients (81%) had a terminal deletion and seven patients (19%) had a proximal or distal interstitial deletion. Of the 22 patients with parental studies, deletions of de novo, maternal, paternal, and bi-parental inheritance accounted for 64, 18, 14, and 4% of patients, respectively. The most common clinical findings were brain abnormalities (100%) in fetuses observed by ultrasonography followed by developmental delay and intellectual disability (81%), brain abnormalities (72%), facial dysmorphism (66%), hypotonia (63%), learning difficulty or language delay (50%), and seizures (47%) in pediatric and adult patients. Anti-epilepsy treatment showed the effect on controlling seizures in these patients. Cytogenomic mapping defined one proximal critical region at 6q26 containing the putative haploinsufficient gene PRKN and one distal critical region at 6q27 containing two haploinsufficient genes DLL1 and TBP . Deletions involving the PRKN gene could associate with early-onset Parkinson disease and autism spectrum disorder; deletions involving the DLL1 gene correlate with the 6q terminal deletion syndrome. Conclusion  The genotype-phenotype correlations for putative haploinsufficient genes in deletions of 6q26-q27 provided evidence for precise diagnostic interpretation, genetic counseling, and clinical management of patients with a deletion of 6q26-q27.
There is an increasing understanding of the possible regulatory role of long non-coding RNAs (LncRNA). Studies on livestock have mainly focused on the regulation of cell differentiation, fat synthesis, and embryonic development. However, there has been little study of skeletal muscle of domestic animals and the potential role of lncRNA. In this study, the transcriptome numbers of longissimus muscle of different beef cattle (Shandong black catle and Luxi catlle) were used to construct muscle related lncRNAs-miRNA-mRNA interaction network through bioinformatics analysis. This is helpful to clarify the molecular mechanism of bovine muscle development, and can be used to promote animal husbandry and improve animal husbandry production. According to the screening criteria of |FC|≧2 and q < 0.05, a total of 1,415 transcripts (of which 480 were LncRNAs) were differentially expressed (q < 0.05) in the different breeds. Further, we found that the most differentially expressed LncRNAs were found on chromosome 9, in which the differentially expressed LncRNAs targeted 1,164 protein coding genes (MYORG, Wnt4, PAK1, ADCY7,etc) (upstream and downstream<50 Kb). In addition, Pearson's correlation coefficients of co-expression levels indicated a potential trans regulatory relationship between the differentially expressed LncRNAs and 43844 mRNAs (r > 0.9). The identified co-expressed mRNAs (MYORG, Dll1, EFNB2, SOX6, MYOCD, and MYLK3) are related to the formation of muscle structure, and enriched in muscle system process, strained muscle cell differentiation, muscle cell development, striated muscle tissue development, calcium signaling, and AMPK signaling. Additionally, we also found that some LncRNAs (LOC112444238, LOC101903367, LOC104975788, LOC112441863, LOC112449549, and LOC101907194) may interact with miRNAs related to cattle muscle growth and development. Based on this, we constructed a LncRNAs-miRNA-mRNA interaction network as the putative basis for biological regulation in cattle skeletal muscle. Interestingly, a candidate differential LncRNA (LOC104975788) and a protein-coding gene (Pax7) contain miR-133a binding sites and binding was confirmed by luciferase reporter assay. LOC104975788 may combined miR-133a competitively with Pax7, thus relieving the inhibitory effect of miR-133a on Pax7 to regulate skeletal muscle development. These results will provide the theoretical basis for further study of LncRNA regulation and activity in different cattle breeds.
Comment in    Kidney Int. 2022 Aug;102(2):236-238.
INTRODUCTION: Alcohol-induced thickening of the gut mucosal layer and increased expression of goblet cell gel-forming mucins, such as mucin-2 (MUC2) are associated with disruptions to the gut barrier in alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Interest in drugs that can target gut mucins in ALD has grown; however to date, no studies have examined the properties of drugs on expression of gut mucins in models of ALD. We previously demonstrated that at 10 mg/kg/day, the drug fenretinide (N-[4-hydroxyphenyl] retinamide [Fen]), a synthetic retinoid, mitigates alcohol-associated damage to the gut barrier and liver injury in a murine model of ALD.METHODS: In this study, we specifically sought to examine the effects of Fen on gut goblet cells, and expression of mucins, including MUC2 using a 25-day Lieber-DeCarli model of chronic alcohol intake.RESULTS: Our results show that chronic alcohol intake increased gut-mucosal thickening, goblet cell numbers, and mRNA and protein expression of MUC2 in both the ileum and colon. Alcohol intake was associated with marked decreases in ileal and colonic Notch signaling, levels of Notch ligands Dll1 and Dll4, and increases in the expression of Notch-associated genes indispensable for goblet cell specification, including Math1 and Spdef. Interestingly, ileal and colonic expression of KLF4, which is involved in terminal differentiation of goblet cells, was reduced in mice chronically fed alcohol. Coadministration of alcohol with Fen at 10 mg/kg/day significantly reduced alcohol-associated increases in ileal and colonic mucosal thickening, ileal Muc2, colonic Muc2, Muc5ac and Muc6 mRNAs, and goblet cell numbers. We also found that Fen strongly prevented alcohol-mediated suppression of the Notch ligand Dll1, Notch signaling, and alcohol-induced increases in expression of Notch-associated goblet cell specification genes in both the ileum and colon. In the absence of alcohol, Fen treatments alone at 10 mg/kg/day had no effects on any of the goblet cell-related endpoints.CONCLUSION: These data show for the first time that the drug Fen possesses mucosal layer-modulating properties in response to chronic alcohol abuse. These data warrant further preclinical examination of Fen given the need for anti-ALD drugs and emerging evidence of a role for intestinal goblet cell mucins in the progression of ALD.
PURPOSE: This study aims to investigate whether indomethacin (IND) delays preterm birth by regulating the Notch pathway, Tlr receptors, and Sp-A in the placenta in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced preterm labor (PTL) model.METHODS: CD-1 mice were distributed to the pregnant control (PC), Sham, PBS, IND (2 mg/kg; i.p.), LPS (25 μg/100 μl; intrauterine), and LPS + IND groups. The injections were performed on day 14.5 of pregnancy. Placentae were collected on day 15.5 of pregnancy, and immunohistochemical analyzes were performed. Differences in staining intensities between the Cox-1, Notch-1 (N1), Dll-1, Jagged-2 (Jag-2), Tlr-2, and Tlr-4 proteins were compared.RESULTS: Preterm labor rates were 100% and 66% (preterm delivery delayed 5 h) in the LPS and LPS + IND groups, respectively. In LPS-treated mice, a general morphological deterioration was observed in the placenta. Total placental mid-sagittal measurement was significantly reduced in the LPS-treated group, while it was similar to the PC group in the LPS + IND group. Cox-1 expression in the LZ increased, and Sp-A expression decreased after LPS injection, and IND administration diminished this increase. N1 expression increased in the labyrinth zone (LZ) and the junctional zone (JZ). Dll-1 and Jag-2 expression increased in the JZ after LPS injection (p < 0.0001). IND administration diminished Tlr-2 expression in the LZ and Tlr-4 expression in the JZ after LPS injection.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, PG (prostaglandin) inhibition may alter Notch signaling, Tlr, and Sp-A protein expression and may be associated with delayed labor in LPS-induced mice.
BACKGROUND: Acute lung injury (ALI) is a common complication following severe burns. The underlying mechanisms of ALI are incompletely understood; thus, available treatments are not sufficient to repair the lung tissue after ALI.METHODS: To investigate the relationship between the Notch pathway and burn-induced lung injury, we established a rat burn injury model by scalding and verified lung injury via lung injury evaluations, including hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, lung injury scoring, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and wet/dry ratio analyses, myeloperoxidase immunohistochemical staining and reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation analysis. To explore whether burn injury affects Notch1 expression, we detected the expression of Notch1 and Hes1 after burn injury. Then, we extracted pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs) and conducted Notch pathway inhibition and activation experiments, via a γ-secretase inhibitor (GSI) and OP9-DLL1 coculture, respectively, to verify the regulatory effect of the Notch pathway on ROS accumulation and apoptosis in burn-serum-stimulated PMVECs. To investigate the regulatory effect of the Notch pathway on ROS accumulation, we detected the expression of oxidative-stress-related molecules such as superoxide dismutase, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (NOX) 2, NOX4 and cleaved caspase-3. NOX4-specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) and the inhibitor GKT137831 were used to verify the regulatory effect of the Notch pathway on ROS via NOX4.RESULTS: We successfully established a burn model and revealed that lung injury, excessive ROS accumulation and an inflammatory response occurred. Notch1 detection showed that the expression of Notch1 was significantly increased after burn injury. In PMVECs challenged with burn serum, ROS and cell death were elevated. Moreover, when the Notch pathway was suppressed by GSI, ROS and cell apoptosis levels were significantly increased. Conversely, these parameters were reduced when the Notch pathway was activated by OP9-DLL1. Mechanistically, the inhibition of NOX4 by siRNA and GKT137831 showed that the Notch pathway reduced ROS production and cell apoptosis by downregulating the expression of NOX4 in PMVECs.CONCLUSIONS: The Notch pathway reduced ROS production and apoptosis by downregulating the expression of NOX4 in burn-stimulated PMVECs. The Notch-NOX4 pathway may be a novel therapeutic target to treat burn-induced ALI.
In mammalian development, oscillatory activation of Notch signaling is required for segmentation clock function during somitogenesis. Notch activity oscillations are synchronized between neighboring cells in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM) and have a period that matches the rate of somite formation. Normal clock function requires cyclic expression of the Lunatic fringe (LFNG) glycosyltransferase, as well as expression of the inhibitory Notch ligand Delta-like 3 (DLL3). How these factors coordinate Notch activation in the clock is not well understood. Recent evidence suggests that LFNG can act in a signal-sending cell to influence Notch activity in the clock, raising the possibility that in this context, glycosylation of Notch pathway proteins by LFNG may affect ligand activity. Here we dissect the genetic interactions of Lfng and Dll3 specifically in the segmentation clock and observe distinctions in the skeletal and clock phenotypes of mutant embryos showing that paradoxically, loss of Dll3 is associated with strong reductions in Notch activity in the caudal PSM. The patterns of Notch activity in the PSM suggest that the loss of Dll3 is epistatic to the loss of Lfng in the segmentation clock, and we present direct evidence for the modification of several DLL1 and DLL3 EGF-repeats by LFNG. We further demonstrate that DLL3 expression in cells co-expressing DLL1 and NOTCH1 can potentiate a cell's signal-sending activity and that this effect is modulated by LFNG, suggesting a mechanism for coordinated regulation of oscillatory Notch activation in the clock by glycosylation and cis-inhibition.
Notch signaling is a highly conserved pathway and it plays an essential role in regulating cellular proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. The human Notch family includes four receptors, Notch 1-4, and five ligands, delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1), delta-like ligand 3 (DLL3), delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4), Jagged-1 (JAG1), and Jagged-2 (JAG2). It is widely known, that Notch signaling components are often mutated and have deregulated expression in many types of cancer and other diseases. Thus, various therapeutic approaches targeting receptors and ligands of the Notch pathway are being investigated. Human JAG1 is closely related to tumor biology among the Notch ligands, and recent studies have shown potential for monoclonal antibodies targeting JAG1 in cancer therapy. Therefore, this review focuses on current reports on the significance of JAG1 directed cancer treatment, emphasizing immunotherapy.
Transient MyoD overexpression in concert with small molecule treatment reprograms mouse fibroblasts into induced myogenic progenitor cells (iMPCs). However, the molecular landscape and mechanisms orchestrating this cellular conversion remain unknown. Here, we undertook an integrative multiomics approach to delineate the process of iMPC reprogramming in comparison to myogenic transdifferentiation mediated solely by MyoD. Using transcriptomics, proteomics, and genome-wide chromatin accessibility assays, we unravel distinct molecular trajectories that govern the two processes. Notably, only iMPC reprogramming is characterized by gradual up-regulation of muscle stem cell markers, unique signaling pathways, and chromatin remodelers in conjunction with exclusive chromatin opening in core myogenic promoters. In addition, we determine that the Notch pathway is indispensable for iMPC formation and self-renewal and further use the Notch ligand Dll1 to homogeneously propagate iMPCs. Collectively, this study charts divergent molecular blueprints for myogenic transdifferentiation or reprogramming and underpins the heightened capacity of iMPCs for capturing myogenesis ex vivo.
T-cell development in the thymus is dependent on Notch signaling induced by the interaction of Notch1, present on immigrant cells, with a Notch ligand, delta-like (Dll) 4, on the thymic epithelial cells. Phylogenetic analysis characterizing the properties of the Dll4 molecule suggests that Dll4 emerged from the common ancestor of lobe- and ray-finned fishes and diverged into bony fishes and terrestrial organisms, including mammals. The thymus evolved in cartilaginous fishes before Dll4, suggesting that T-cell development in cartilaginous fishes is dependent on Dll1 instead of Dll4. In this study, we compared the function of both Dll molecules in the thymic epithelium using Foxn1-cre and Dll4-floxed mice with conditional transgenic alleles in which the Dll1 or Dll4 gene is transcribed after the cre-mediated excision of the stop codon. The expression of Dll1 in the thymic epithelium completely restored the defect in the Dll4-deficient condition, suggesting that Dll1 can trigger Notch signaling that is indispensable for T-cell development in the thymus. Moreover, using bone marrow chimeras with Notch1- or Notch2-deficient hematopoietic cells, we showed that Dll1 is able to activate Notch signaling, which is sufficient to induce T-cell development, with both the receptors, in contrast to Dll4, which works only with Notch1, in the thymic environment. These results strongly support the hypothesis that Dll1 regulates T-cell development via Notch1 and/or Notch2 in the thymus of cartilaginous fishes and that Dll4 has replaced Dll1 in inducing thymic Notch signaling via Notch1 during evolution.
BACKGROUND: Cerebral ischemia leads to linguistic and motor dysfunction, as the death of neurons in ischemic core is permanent and non-renewable. An innovative avenue is to induce and/or facilitate reprogramming of adjacent astrocytes into neurons to replace the lost neurons and re-establish brain homeostasis.PURPOSE: This study aimed to investigate whether the p-hydroxy benzaldehyde (p-HBA), a phenolic compound isolated from Gastrodia elata Blume, could facilitate the reprogramming of oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R)-damaged astrocytes into neurons.STUDY DESIGN/METHODS: The primary parenchymal astrocytes of rat were exposure to OGD and reperfusion with define culture medium. Cells were then incubated with different concentration of p-HBA (1, 10, 100, 400 μM) and collected at desired time point for reprogramming process analysis.RESULTS: OGD/R could elicit endogenous neurogenic program in primary parenchymal astrocytes of rat under define culture condition, and these so-called reactive astrocytes could be reprogrammed into neurons. However, the neonatal neurons produced by this endogenous procedure could not develop into mature neurons, and the conversion rate was only 1.9%. Treatment of these reactive astrocytes with p-HBA could successfully promote the conversion rate to 6.1%, and the neonatal neurons could develop into mature neurons within 14 days. Further analysis showed that p-HBA down-regulated the Notch signal component genes Dll1, Hes1 and SOX2, while the transcription factor NeuroD1 was up-regulated.CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrated that p-HBA facilitated the astrocyte-to-neuron conversion. This chemical reprogramming was mediated by inhibition of Notch1 signaling pathway and transcriptional activation of NeuroD1.
Intestinal homeostasis is key to the maintenance of good health. The small intestine plays important roles in absorption, digestion, hormonal and immune functions. Crypt base columnar (CBC) stem cells residing at the bottom of crypts are nurtured by Paneth cells, and together create the stem cell niche, the foundation of intestinal homeostasis. CBC stem cells replicate to replenish their number, or differentiate into a variety of epithelial cells with specialized functions. Notch signaling is a cell-cell signaling pathway that regulates both the proliferation and differentiation of CBC stem cells. NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 stimulated by canonical Notch ligands DLL1 and DLL4 mediate Notch signaling in the intestine that, in concert with other signaling pathways including the WNT and BMP pathways, determines cell fates. Importantly, interactions between Notch receptors and canonical Notch ligands are regulated by O-glycans linked to Ser/Thr in epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats of the Notch receptor extracellular domain (NECD). The O-glycans attached to NECD are key regulators of the strength of Notch signaling. Imbalances in Notch signaling result in altered cell fate decisions and may lead to cancer in the intestine. In this review, we summarize the impacts of mutations in Notch pathway members on intestinal development and homeostasis, with a focus on the glycosyltransferases that transfer O-glycans to EGF repeats of NOTCH1, NOTCH2, DLL1 and DLL4.
Delta/Serrate/LAG-2 (DSL) proteins, which serve as ligands for Notch receptors, mediate direct cell-cell interactions involved in the determination of cell fate and functioning. The present study aimed to explore the role of androgens and estrogens, and their receptors in the regulation of DSL proteins in Sertoli cells. To this end, primary rat Sertoli cells and TM4 Sertoli cell line were treated with either testosterone or 17β-estradiol and antagonists of their receptors. To confirm the role of particular receptors, knockdown experiments were performed. mRNA and protein expressions of Jagged1 (JAG1), Delta-like1 (DLL1), and Delta-like4 (DLL4) were analyzed using RT-qPCR, Western blot, and immunofluorescence. Testosterone caused downregulation of JAG1 and DLL1 expression, acting through membrane androgen receptor ZRT- and Irt-like protein 9 (ZIP9) or nuclear androgen receptor (AR), respectively. DLL4 was stimulated by testosterone in the manner independent of AR and ZIP9 in Sertoli cells. The expression of all studied DSL proteins was upregulated by 17β-estradiol. Estrogen action on JAG1 and DLL1 was mediated chiefly via estrogen receptor α (ERα), while DLL4 was controlled via estrogen receptor β (ERβ) and membrane G-protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER). To summarize, the co-operation of nuclear and membrane receptors for sex steroids controls DSL proteins in Sertoli cells, contributing to balanced Notch signaling activity in seminiferous epithelium.
BACKGROUND: We previously reported that clumps of a few epithelial cells were scattered in ulcer regions in a dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced mouse model of ulcerative colitis (UC).AIMS: To determine the ectopically localized epithelial clumps might be derived from stem cells or their daughter progenitor cells.METHODS: Female BALB/c mice were administered DSS in drinking water for 6 days, followed by withdrawal of DSS for 6 days. Histological and immunohistochemical examinations were conducted in the distal region and proximal region of the colorectum to determine expression of stem cell markers in the epithelial clumps.RESULTS: Similar to the characteristics of UC, the ulcers were more severe in the distal region close to the anus than in the proximal region of the colorectum. Quantitative analyses revealed that the epithelial clumps appeared in relation to the severity of the ulcer, and they expressed the cell adhesion molecules E-cadherin and β-catenin. Among stem cell markers, the epithelial clumps primarily expressed +5 cell marker Dll1 as reserved intestinal stem cells, followed by +4 cell marker Bmi1 and crypt stem cell marker Lgr5 in that order. Nuclear expression of Sox9, but not nuclear β-catenin, was identified in the clumps.CONCLUSION: The present results suggest that most epithelial clumps comprised crypt-derived, reserved stem cells, which might have potential for mucosal healing.
Prostate cancer occurs in the prostatic epithelium and poses a threat to the health of middle-aged and older males. The objective of the present study was to explore the roles of microRNA (miRNA/miR)-130b in prostate cancer and potential molecular mechanisms in order to control the migration and invasion of prostate cancer. For this purpose, reverse transcription-PCR was performed to evaluate the mRNA levels of DLL1, phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K), protein kinase B (Akt) and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)9, and western blot analysis was carried out to detect the protein expression levels of DLL1, phosphorylated (p)-PI3K, p-Akt and MMP9. A Transwell assay was conducted to examine the invasion rate of prostate cancer cells. Furthermore, a scratch wound assay was performed to examine the migration rate of prostate cancer cells. A luciferase assay was performed to examine the interaction between miRNA and its target mRNA. The results revealed that miR-130b had abnormal (low) expression in tumor tissues compared with that in the adjacent normal tissue. An miR-130b mimic suppressed the expression of DLL1. The expression of p-PI3K, p-Akt and MMP9 in prostate cancer cells transfected with the miR-130b mimic was decreased in comparison to the negative control and control groups. Furthermore, migration and invasion were significantly suppressed in the miR-130b mimic group. In conclusion, a novel pathway interlinking miR-130b and MMP9, p-Akt and p-PI3K, which regulates the migration and invasion of prostate cancer cells, was identified. These ﬁndings provide an intriguing biomarker and treatment strategy for patients with prostate cancer.
Vascular leakage associated with vascular endothelial cell (vEC) dysfunction is a hallmark of sepsis. Causative for the decreased integrity of the vascular endothelium (vE) is a complex concurrence of pathogen components, inflammation-associated host factors, and the interaction of vECs and activated circulating immune cells. One signaling pathway that regulates the integrity of the vE is the Notch cascade, which is activated through the binding of a Notch ligand to its respective Notch receptor. Recently, we showed that the soluble form of the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (sDLL1) is highly abundant in the blood of patients with sepsis. However, a direct connection between DLL1-activated Notch signaling and loss of vEC barrier function has not been addressed so far. To study the impact of infection-associated sDLL1, we used human umbilical vein cells (HUVEC) grown in a transwell system and cocultured with blood. Stimulation with sDLL1 induced activation as well as loss of endothelial tight structure and barrier function. Moreover, LPS-stimulated HUVEC activation and increase in endothelial cell permeability could be significantly decreased by blocking DLL1-receptor binding and Notch signaling, confirming the involvement of the cascade in LPS-mediated endothelial dysfunction. In conclusion, our results suggest that during bacterial infection and LPS recognition, DLL1-activated Notch signaling is associated with vascular permeability. This finding might be of clinical relevance in terms of preventing vascular leakage and the severity of sepsis.
The Notch signaling pathway plays an important role in otic neurogenesis by regulating the differentiation of inner ear hair cells and supporting cells. Notch-regulated differentiation is required for the regeneration of hair cells in the inner ear. The temporal expression pattern of Notch ligands and receptors during in vitro hair cell-like cell differentiation from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) was detected by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Subsequently, pAJ-U6-shRNA-CMV-Puro/GFP recombinant lentiviral vectors encoding short hairpin RNAs were used to silence JAG-1, JAG-2, and DLL-1, according to the temporal expression pattern of Notch ligands. Then, the effect of each ligand on the in vitro differentiation of hair cells was examined by RT-PCR, immunofluorescence, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The results showed that the individual deletion of JAG-2 or DLL-1 had no significant effect on the differentiation of hair cell-like cells. However, the simultaneous inhibition of both DLL-1 and JAG-2 increased the number of hair cell-like cells and decreased the number of supporting cells. JAG-2 and DLL-1 may have a synergistic role in in vitro hair cell differentiation.
Although it is thought that there is a close relationship between Notch signal and preterm birth, the functioning of this mechanism in the cervix is unknown. The efficacy of surfactants and prostaglandin inhibitors in preterm labor is also still unclear. In this study, 48 female CD-1 mice were distributed to pregnant control (PC), Sham, PBS, indomethacin (2 mg/kg; intraperitoneally), lipopolysaccharides (LPS) (25 μg/100 μl; intrauterine), LPS + IND, and Surfactant Protein A Block (SP-A Block: SP-A B; the anti-SP-A antibody was applied 20 µg/100μl; intrauterine) groups. Tissues were examined by immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and Western blot analysis. LPS administration increased the expression of N1 Dll-1 and Jagged-2 (Jag-2). Although Toll-like receptor (Tlr)-2 significantly increased in the LPS-treated and SP-A-blocked groups, Tlr-4 significantly increased only in the LPS-exposed groups. It was observed that Jag-2 is specifically expressed by mast cells. Overall, this experimental model shows that some protein responses increase throughout the uterus, starting at a specific point on the cervix epithelium. Surfactant Protein A, which we observed to be significantly reduced by LPS, may be associated with the regulation of the epithelial response, especially during preterm delivery due to infection. On the contrary, prostaglandin inhibitors can be considered an option to delay infection-related preterm labor with their dose-dependent effects. Finally, the link between mast cells and Jag-2 could potentially be a control switch for preterm birth.
OBJECTIVE: Terminal 6q deletion is a rare genetic condition associated with a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability and structural brain anomalies. Interestingly, a similar phenotype is observed in patients harboring pathogenic variants in the DLL1 gene. Our study aimed to further characterize the prenatal phenotype of this syndrome as well as to attempt to establish phenotype-genotype correlations.METHOD: We collected ultrasound findings from 22 fetuses diagnosed with a pure 6qter deletion. We reviewed the literature and compared our 22 cases with 14 fetuses previously reported as well as with patients with heterozygous DLL1 pathogenic variants.RESULTS: Brain structural alterations were observed in all fetuses. The most common findings (>70%) were cerebellar hypoplasia, ventriculomegaly, and corpus callosum abnormalities. Gyration abnormalities were observed in 46% of cases. Occasional findings included cerebral heterotopia, aqueductal stenosis, vertebral malformations, dysmorphic features, and kidney abnormalities.CONCLUSION: This is the first series of fetuses diagnosed with pure terminal 6q deletion. Based on our findings, we emphasize the prenatal sonographic anomalies, which may suggest the syndrome. Furthermore, this study highlights the importance of chromosomal microarray analysis to search for submicroscopic deletions of the 6q27 region involving the DLL1 gene in fetuses with these malformations.
Medulloblastoma is the most common embryonic brain tumor in children. We investigated a cohort of 52 Asian medulloblastoma patients aged between 0 and 19 years old, who received surgical resections and post-resection treatments in the Taipei Medical University Hospital and the Taipei Veterans General Hospital. Genome-wide RNA sequencing was performed on fresh-frozen surgical tissues. These data were analyzed using the CIBERSORTx immune deconvolution software. Two external clinical and molecular datasets from United States (n = 62) and Canada (n = 763) were used to evaluate the transferability of the gene-signature scores across ethnic populations. The abundance of 13 genes, including DLL1, are significantly associated with overall survival (All Cox regression P < 0.001). A gene-signature score was derived from the deep transcriptome, capable of indicating patients' subsequent tumor recurrence (Hazard Ratio [HR] 1.645, confidence interval [CI] 1.337-2.025, P < 0.001) and mortality (HR 2.720, CI 1.798-4.112, P < 0.001). After the adjustment of baseline clinical factors, the score remains indicative of recurrence-free survival (HR 1.604, CI 1.292-1.992, P < 0.001) and overall survival (HR 2.781, CI 1.762-4.390, P < 0.001). Patients stratified by this score manifest not only distinct prognosis but also different molecular characteristics: Notch signaling ligands and receptors are comparatively overexpressed in patients with poorer prognosis, while tumor infiltrating natural killer cells are more abundant in patients with better prognosis. Additionally, immunohistochemical staining showed the DLL1 protein, a major ligand in the Notch signaling pathway, and the NCAM1 protein, a representative biomarker of natural killer cells, are present in the surgical tissues of patients of four molecular subgroups, WNT, SHH, Group 3 and Group 4. NCAM1 RNA level is also positively associated with the mutation burden in tumor (P = 0.023). The gene-signature score is validated successfully in the Canadian cohort (P = 0.009) as well as its three molecular subgroups (SHH, Group 3 and Group 4; P = 0.047, 0.018 and 0.040 respectively). In conclusion, pediatric medullablastoma patients can be stratified by gene-signature scores with distinct prognosis and molecular characteristics. Ligands and receptors of the Notch signaling pathway are overexpressed in the patient stratum with poorer prognosis. Tumor infiltrating natural killer cells are more abundant in the patient stratum with better prognosis.
The balance between proliferation and differentiation of muscle stem cells is tightly controlled, ensuring the maintenance of a cellular pool needed for muscle growth and repair. Muscle stem cells can proliferate, they can generate differentiating cells, or they self-renew to produce new stem cells. Notch signaling plays a crucial role in this process. Recent studies revealed that expression of the Notch effector HES1 oscillates in activated muscle stem cells. The oscillatory expression of HES1 periodically represses transcription from the genes encoding the myogenic transcription factor MYOD and the Notch ligand DLL1, thereby driving MYOD and DLL1 oscillations. This oscillatory network allows muscle progenitor cells and activated muscle stem cells to remain in a proliferative and 'undecided' state, in which they can either differentiate or self-renew. When HES1 is downregulated, MYOD oscillations become unstable and are replaced by sustained expression, which drives the cells into terminal differentiation. During development and regeneration, proliferating stem cells contact each other and the stability of the oscillatory expression depends on regular DLL1 inputs provided by neighboring cells. In such communities of cells that receive and provide Notch signals, the appropriate timing of DLL1 inputs is important, as sustained DLL1 cannot replace oscillatory DLL1. Thus, in cell communities, DLL1 oscillations ensure the appropriate balance between self-renewal and differentiation. In summary, oscillations in myogenic cells are an important example of dynamic gene expression determining cell fate.
Cell junctions maintain the blood-tissue barriers to preserve vascular and tissue integrity. Viral infections reportedly modulate cell-cell junctions to facilitate their invasion. However, information on the effect of COVID-19 infection on the gene expression of cell junction and cytoskeletal proteins is limited. Using the Gene Expression Omnibus and Reactome databases, we analyzed the data on human lung A549, NHBE, and Calu-3 cells for the expression changes in cell junction and cytoskeletal proteins by SARS-CoV-2 (CoV-2) infection. The analysis revealed changes in 3,660 genes in A549, 100 genes in NHBE, and 592 genes in Calu-3 cells with CoV-2 infection. Interestingly, EGOT (9.8-, 3- and 8.3-fold; p < .05) and CSF3 (4.3-, 33- and 56.3-fold; p < .05) were the only two genes significantly elevated in all three cell lines (A549, NHBE and Calu-3, respectively). On the other hand, 39 genes related to cell junctions and cytoskeleton were modulated in lung cells, with DLL1 demonstrating alterations in all cells. Alterations were also seen in several miRNAs associated with the cell junction and cytoskeleton genes modulated in the analysis. Further, matrix metalloproteinases involved in disease pathologies, including MMP-3, -9, and -12 demonstrated elevated expression on CoV-2 infection (p < .05). The study findings emphasize the integral role of cell junction and cytoskeletal genes in COVID-19, suggesting their therapeutic potential. Our analysis also identified a distinct EGOT gene that has not been previously implicated in COVID-19. Further studies on these newly identified genes and miRNAs could lead to advances in the pathogenesis and therapeutics of COVID-19.
DOI: 10.20892/j.issn.2095-3941.2021.0507PMCID: PMC8610167PMID: 34708998
Previously, we found that Lactobacillus salivarius, Lactobacillus agilis, and Lactobacillus aviarius were associated with excellent egg nutrition in native chicken. Next, the optimal Lactobacillus combination is worth studying. Here, a total of 120 HyLine hens (30 hens per group contained 3 replicate cells, 10 hens/cell) in the laying peak period were randomly divided into (1) control, (2) L. salivarius + L. agilis, (3) L. salivarius + L. aviarius, and (4) L. agilis + L. aviarius groups, fed with diet only or with corresponding Lactobacilli (108 colony-forming units/hen/day) for 30 days. As a result, L. salivarius + L. agilis feeding could (1) improve egg-laying rate, egg weight, and albumen's amino acid levels; (2) increase Lactobacillus abundance, decrease Escherichia coli abundance, upregulate the tryptophan metabolism pathway-related molecules, and downregulate the primary bile acid biosynthesis pathway-related molecules in intestinal contents; and (3) upregulate oxidative-phosphorylation pathway-related genes, reactive oxygen species levels, and mRNA abundance of Wnt3a, Dll1, Lgr5, CCDN1, and CDK2 in the crypt. Collectively, L. salivarius + L. agilis feeding in hens could improve intestinal microflora and metabolism profile, promote crypt's local energy metabolism and reactive oxygen species levels, and thus enhance Paneth cells and intestinal stem cells activity.Key points• Lactobacilli co-feeding could improve laying performance and egg nutrition.• Lactobacilli co-feeding could improve intestinal microflora and metabolism profile.• Lactobacilli co-feeding could enhance Paneth cells and intestinal stem cells activity.
Endothelial cells (ECs) degrade the extracellular matrix of vessel walls and contact surrounding cells to facilitate migration during angiogenesis, leading to formation of an EC-tubular network (ETN). Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) support ETN formation when co-cultured with ECs, but the mechanism is incompletely understood. We examined the role of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) system, i.e. the serine protease uPA, its inhibitor PAI-1, receptor uPAR/CD87, clearance by the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP1) and their molecular partners, in the formation of ETNs supported by adipose tissue-derived MSC. Co-culture of human umbilical vein ECs (HUVEC) with MSC increased mRNA expression levels of uPAR, MMP14, VEGFR2, TGFβ1, integrin β3 and Notch pathway components (Notch1 receptor and ligands: Dll1, Dll4, Jag1) in HUVECs and uPA, uPAR, TGFβ1, integrin β3, Jag1, Notch3 receptor in MSC. Inhibition at several steps in the activation process indicates that uPA, uPAR and LRP1 cross-talk with αv-integrins, VEGFR2 and Notch receptors/ligands to mediate ETN formation in HUVEC-MSC co-culture. The urokinase system mediates ETN formation through the coordinated action of uPAR, uPA's catalytic activity, its binding to uPAR and its nuclear translocation. These studies identify potential targets to help control aberrant angiogenesis with minimal impact on healthy vasculature.
OBJECTIVE: The mammalian Notch ligand DLL1 has essential functions during development. To visualise DLL1 in tissues, for sorting and enrichment of DLL1-expressing cells, and to efficiently purify DLL1 protein complexes we tagged DLL1 in mice with AcGFPHA or Strep/FLAG.RESULTS: We generated constructs to express DLL1 that carried C-terminal in-frame an AcGFPHA tag flanked by loxP sites followed by a Strep/FLAG (SF) tag out of frame. Cre-mediated recombination replaced AcGFP-HA by SF. The AcGFPHAstopSF cassette was added to DLL1 for tests in cultured cells and introduced into endogenous DLL1 in mice by homologous recombination. Tagged DLL1 protein was detected by antibodies against GFP and HA or Flag, respectively, both in CHO cells and embryo lysates. In CHO cells the AcGFP fluorophore fused to DLL1 was functional. In vivo AcGFP expression was below the level of detection by direct fluorescence. However, the SF tag allowed us to specifically purify DLL1 complexes from embryo lysates. Homozygous mice expressing AcGFPHA or SF-tagged DLL1 revealed a vertebral column phenotype reminiscent of disturbances in AP polarity during somitogenesis, a process most sensitive to reduced DLL1 function. Thus, even small C-terminal tags can impinge on sensitive developmental processes requiring DLL1 activity.
Peripheral nerve injury can cause various degrees of damage to the morphological structure and physiological function of the peripheral nerve. At present, compared with "gold standard" autologous nerve transplantation, tissue engineering has certain potential for regeneration and growth; however, achieving oriented guidance is still a challenge. In this study, we used 3D bioprinting to construct a nerve scaffold of RSC96 cells wrapped in sodium alginate/gelatin methacrylate (GelMA)/bacterial nanocellulose (BNC) hydrogel. The 5% sodium alginate+5% GelMA+0.3% BNC group had the thinnest lines among all groups after printing, indicating that the inherent shape of the scaffold could be maintained after adding BNC. Physical and chemical property testing (Fourier transform infrared, rheometer, conductivity, and compression modulus) showed that the 5% alginate+5% GelMA+0.3% BNC group had better mechanical and rheological properties. Live/dead cell staining showed that no mass cell death was observed on days 1, 3, 5, and 7 after printing. In the 5% alginate+5% GelMA group, the cells grew and formed linear connections in the scaffold. This phenomenon was more obvious in the 5% alginate+5% GelMA+0.3% BNC group. In the 5% alginate+5% GelMA+0.3% BNC group, S-100β immunofluorescence staining and cytoskeleton staining showed oriented growth. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) array results showed that mRNA levels of related neurofactors ASCL1, POU3F3, NEUROG1, DLL1, NOTCH1 and ERBB2 in the 5%GelMA+0.3%BNC group were higher than those of other groups. Four weeks after implantation in nude mice, RSC96 cells grew and proliferated well, blood vessels grew, and S-100β immunofluorescence was positive. These results indicate that a 3D-bioprinted sodium alginate/GelMA/BNC composite scaffold can improve cell-oriented growth, adhesion and the expression of related factors. This 3D-bioprinted composite scaffold has good biocompatibility and is expected to become a new type of scaffold material in the field of neural tissue engineering.
Ski-slope hearing loss (HL), which refers to increased auditory threshold at high frequencies, is common in adults. However, genetic contributions to this post-lingual HL remain largely unknown. Here, we prospectively investigated deafness-associated and novel candidate genes causing ski-slope HL. We analyzed 192 families with post-lingual HL via gene panel and/or exome sequencing. With an overall molecular diagnostic rate of 35.4% (68/192) in post-lingual HL, ski-slope HL showed a lower diagnostic rate (30.7%) compared with other conditions (40.7%). In patients who showed HL onset before the age of 40, genetic diagnostic probability was significantly lower for ski-slope HL than for other conditions. Further analysis of 51 genetically undiagnosed patients in the ski-slope HL group identified three variants in delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1), a Notch ligand, which presented in vitro gain-of-function effects on Notch downstream signaling. In conclusion, genetic diagnostic rates in post-lingual HL varied according to audiogram patterns with age-of-onset as a confounding factor. DLL1 was identified as a candidate gene causing ski-slope HL.
The Notch-signaling ligand DLL1 has emerged as an important player and promising therapeutic target in breast cancer (BC). DLL1-induced Notch activation promotes tumor cell proliferation, survival, migration, angiogenesis and BC stem cell maintenance. In BC, DLL1 overexpression is associated with poor prognosis, particularly in estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) subtypes. Directed therapy in early and advanced BC has dramatically changed the natural course of ER+ BC; however, relapse is a major clinical issue, and new therapeutic strategies are needed. Here, we report the development and characterization of a novel monoclonal antibody specific to DLL1. Using phage display technology, we selected an anti-DLL1 antibody fragment, which was converted into a full human IgG1 (Dl1.72). The Dl1.72 antibody exhibited DLL1 specificity and affinity in the low nanomolar range and significantly impaired DLL1-Notch signaling and expression of Notch target genes in ER+ BC cells. Functionally, in vitro treatment with Dl1.72 reduced MCF-7 cell proliferation, migration, mammosphere formation and endothelial tube formation. In vivo, Dl1.72 significantly inhibited tumor growth, reducing both tumor cell proliferation and liver metastases in a xenograft mouse model, without apparent toxicity. These findings suggest that anti-DLL1 Dl1.72 could be an attractive agent against ER+ BC, warranting further preclinical investigation.
Comment in    Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022;13(1):339-340.
Diabetic gastroparesis (DGP) is a common complication of diabetes mellitus (DM). Our previous study suggested that the expression of the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1) is closely related to DGP. However, the role of MALAT1 in DGP pathogenesis remains unclear. Here, we aim to characterize the role of MALAT1 in DGP. First, we analyzed the lncRNA expression profiles through lncRNA sequencing. Next, we detected MALAT1 expression in the stomach tissues of DGP model mice and diabetic patients. Then, we investigated the role and mechanisms of MALAT1 in the proliferation, migration, phenotypic switch, and carbachol-induced intracellular Ca2+ changes in human gastric smooth muscle cells (HGSMCs) under high glucose (HG) conditions, using short hairpin RNA technology, RNA immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. We show that MALAT1 expression was upregulated in the gastric tissues of DGP model mice, the adjacent healthy tissues collected from diabetic gastric cancer patients with DGP symptoms, and in HGSMCs cultured under HG conditions. Functionally, MALAT1 knockdown in vitro impacted the viability, proliferation, migration and promoted the phenotypic switch of HGSMCs under HG conditions. Additionally, we show that MALAT1 sponged miR-449a, regulating Delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1) expression in HGSMCs; any disturbance of the MALAT1/miR-449a/DLL1 pathway affects the proliferation, migration, phenotypic switch, and carbachol-induced Ca2+ transient signals in HGSMCs under HG conditions. Collectively, our data highlight a novel regulatory signaling pathway, the MALAT1/miR-449a/DLL1 axis, in the context of DGP.
Bleeding associated with endothelial damage is a key feature of severe dengue fever. In the current study, we investigated whether Notch ligands were associated with bleeding in 115 patients with confirmed dengue infection in Vietnam. Soluble Notch ligands were determined by means of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Seventeen of 115 patients (14.8%) experienced bleeding manifestations. High soluble delta-like ligand 1 (sDLL1) plasma levels was associated with bleeding (median, 15 674 vs 7117 pg/mL; P < .001). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis demonstrated that sDLL1 had the best test performance (area under the ROC curve, 0.852), with 88% sensitivity and 84% specificity. The combination with alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase slightly increased sDLL1 performance. sDLL1 may be useful to guide clinical management of patients with patients in endemic settings.
Muscle precursor cells known as myoblasts are essential for muscle development and regeneration. Notch signaling is an ancient intercellular communication mechanism that plays prominent roles in controlling the myogenic program of myoblasts. Currently whether and how the myogenic cues feedback to refine Notch activities in these cells are largely unknown. Here, by mouse and human gene gain/loss-of-function studies, we report that MyoD directly turns on the expression of Notch-ligand gene Dll1 which activates Notch pathway to prevent precautious differentiation in neighboring myoblasts, while autonomously inhibits Notch to facilitate a myogenic program in Dll1 expressing cells. Mechanistically, we studied cis-regulatory DNA motifs underlying the MyoD-Dll1-Notch axis in vivo by characterizing myogenesis of a novel E-box deficient mouse model, as well as in human cells through CRISPR-mediated interference. These results uncovered the crucial transcriptional mechanism that mediates the reciprocal controls of Notch and myogenesis.
AIMS: The aim of our study is to investigate the effect induced by alternated mechanical loading on Notch-1 in mandibular condylar cartilage (MCC) of growing rabbits.METHODS: A total of 64 ten-day-old rabbits were randomly divided into two groups according to dietary hardness: normal diet group (pellet) and soft diet group (powder). In each group, the rabbits were further divided into four subgroups by feeding time: two weeks, four weeks, six weeks, and eight weeks. Animals would be injected 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) every day for one week before sacrificing. Histomorphometric analysis of MCC thickness was performed through haematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining. Immunochemical analysis was done to test BrdU and Notch-1. The quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blot were used to measure expression of Notch-1, Jagged-1, and Delta-like 1 (Dll-1).RESULTS: The thickness of MCC in the soft diet group was thinner than the one in normal diet group. Notch-1 was restricted in fibrous layer, proliferative layer, and hypertrophic layer. The expression of Notch-1 increased from two weeks to six weeks and then fell down. Notch-1 in normal diet group was higher than that in soft diet group in anterior part of MCC. The statistical differences of Notch-1 were shown at two, four, and six weeks (p < 0.05). The result of western blot and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) showed the expression of Dll-1 and Jagged-1 rose from two to four weeks and started to decrease at four weeks. BrdU distributed in all layers of cartilage and subchondral bone. The number of BrdU-positive cells, which were less in soft diet group, was decreasing along with the experiment period. The significant difference was found at four, six, and eight weeks in anterior and posterior parts (p < 0.05).CONCLUSION: The structure and proliferation of MCC in rabbits were sensitive to dietary loading changes. The proper mechanical loading was essential for transduction of Notch signalling pathway and development of mandibular condylar cartilage. Cite this article: Bone Joint Res 2021;10(7):437-444.
The transdifferentiation of adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADMSCs) into insulin-producing cells (IPCs) is a potential resource for the treatment of diabetes. However, the changes of genes and metabolic pathways on the transdifferentiation of ADMSCs into IPCs are largely unknown. In this study, the transdifferentiation of canine ADMSCs into IPCs was completed using five types of procedures. Absolute Quantitative Transcriptome Sequencing Analysis was performed at different stages of the optimal procedure. A total of 60,151 transcripts were obtained. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were divided into five groups: IPC1 vs. ADSC (1169 upregulated genes and 1377 downregulated genes), IPC2 vs. IPC1 (1323 upregulated genes and 803 downregulated genes), IPC3 vs. IPC2 (722 upregulated genes and 680 downregulated genes), IPC4 vs. IPC3 (539 upregulated genes and 1561 downregulated genes), and Beta_cell vs. IPC4 (2816 upregulated genes and 4571 downregulated genes). The gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis of DEGs revealed that many genes and signaling pathways that are essential for transdifferentiation. Hnf1B, Dll1, Pbx1, Rfx3, and Foxa1 were screened out, and the functions of five genes were verified further by overexpression and silence. Foxa1, Pbx1, and Rfx3 exhibited significant effects, can be used as specific key regulatory factors in the transdifferentiation of ADMSCs into IPCs. This study provides a foundation for future work to understand the mechanisms of the transdifferentiation of ADMSCs into IPCs and acquire IPCs with high maturity.
Author information:(1)Center for Clinical Molecular Medicine, Children's Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child Development and Disorders, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health and Disorders (Chongqing), China International Science and Technology Cooperation Base of Child Development and Critical Disorders, Chongqing Engineering Research Center for Stem Cell Therapy, Chongqing 400014, China.(2)Center for Clinical Molecular Medicine, Children's Hospital, Chongqing Medical University, Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child Development and Disorders, National Clinical Research Center for Child Health and Disorders (Chongqing), China International Science and Technology Cooperation Base of Child Development and Critical Disorders, Chongqing Engineering Research Center for Stem Cell Therapy, Chongqing 400014, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: zoulin74@126.com.
BACKGROUND: A hallmark of Notch signaling is its variable role in tumor biology, ranging from tumor-suppressive to oncogenic effects. Until now, the mechanisms and functions of Notch pathways in bladder cancer (BCa) are still unclear.METHODS: We used publicly available data from the GTEx and TCGA-BLCA databases to explore the role of the canonical Notch pathways in BCa on the basis of the RNA expression levels of Notch receptors, ligands, and downstream genes. For statistical analyses of cancer and non-cancerous samples, we used R software packages and public databases/webservers.RESULTS: We found differential expression between control and BCa samples for all Notch receptors (NOTCH1, 2, 3, 4), the delta-like Notch ligands (DLL1, 3, 4), and the typical downstream gene hairy and enhancer of split 1 (HES1). NOTCH2/3 and DLL4 can significantly differentiate non-cancerous samples from cancers and were broadly altered in subgroups. High expression levels of NOTCH2/3 receptors correlated with worse overall survival (OS) and shorter disease-free survival (DFS). However, at long-term (>8 years) follow-up, NOTCH2 expression was associated with a better OS and DFS. Furthermore, the cases with the high levels of DLL4 were associated with worse OS but improved DFS. Pathway network analysis revealed that NOTCH2/3 in particular correlated with cell cycle, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), numbers of lymphocyte subtypes, and modulation of the immune system.CONCLUSIONS: NOTCH2/3 and DLL4 are potential drivers of Notch signaling in BCa, indicating that Notch and associated pathways play an essential role in the progression and prognosis of BCa through directly modulating immune cells or through interaction with cell cycle and EMT.
Adipose tissue-derived stem cells (ADSCs) have been suggested as a novel treatment for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH); however, the mechanisms underlying their therapeutic effect remain poorly understood. In this study, we aimed to investigate the association of Notch signaling, which is crucial for cellular proliferation and differentiation in ADSC-mediated treatment of NASH. Flow cytometry analysis of ADSCs showed that they expressed the Notch ligands JAG1, DLL1, and DLL4. The expression of genes associated with the Notch signaling pathway was attenuated in hepatocytes of NASH model mice. We further observed ADSC-mediated activation of Notch signaling in these hepatocytes in addition to an increase in proliferating cell nuclear antigen+ cells and a decrease in TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling+ apoptotic cells. Co-culture of palmitic acid-induced steatotic hepatocytes and ADSCs resulted in the activation of Notch signaling and reduction of apoptosis of steatotic hepatocytes. Moreover, inhibition of Notch signaling by a γ-secretase inhibitor and knockdown of Notch ligands using siRNA attenuated the anti-apoptotic effect of co-cultured ADSCs in vitro. Our findings show that the Notch signaling pathway is involved in the inhibition of apoptosis and restoration of cellular proliferation of hepatocytes from NASH mice following ADSC treatment.
The immunosuppressive and hypoxic tumor microenvironment (TME) remains a major obstacle to impede cancer immunotherapy. Here, we showed that elevated levels of Delta-like 1 (DLL1) in the breast and lung TME induced long-term tumor vascular normalization to alleviate tumor hypoxia and promoted the accumulation of interferon γ (IFN-γ)-expressing CD8+ T cells and the polarization of M1-like macrophages. Moreover, increased DLL1 levels in the TME sensitized anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (anti-CTLA4) treatment in its resistant tumors, resulting in tumor regression and prolonged survival. Mechanically, in vivo depletion of CD8+ T cells or host IFN-γ deficiency reversed tumor growth inhibition and abrogated DLL1-induced tumor vascular normalization without affecting DLL1-mediated macrophage polarization. Together, these results demonstrate that elevated DLL1 levels in the TME promote durable tumor vascular normalization in a CD8+ T cell- and IFN-γ-dependent manner and potentiate anti-CTLA4 therapy. Our findings unveil DLL1 as a potential target to persistently normalize the TME to facilitate cancer immunotherapy.
Although dental pulp and apical papilla are originated from neural crest cells, these tissues exhibit distinct characteristics. Notch signaling is one of the known signaling pathways regulating stemness and behaviors of stem cells. The aim of this study was to examine Notch signaling related gene expression profile comparing between coronal pulp tissues and apical pulp complex. Results demonstrated that coronal pulp tissue had higher expression levels of various genes in Notch pathway. However, NOTCH2, MAML2, DTX4, and NEDD4 mRNA levels were significantly lower in coronal pulp tissue than those of apical pulp complex. Furthermore, dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) and stem cells isolated from apical papilla (SCAPs) were isolated and characterized. These two cell types exhibited similar mesenchymal stem cell surface markers. DPSCs expressed higher mRNA levels of NOTCH3, NOTCH4, DLL1, and HES1. In addition, SCAPs demonstrated higher colony formation and cell proliferation than DPSCs. In summary, cells and tissues from dental pulp and apical papilla exhibited the distinct gene expression profile of Notch related genes. This could be of one the signaling participated in control of DPSCs and SCAPs cells behaviors.
Notch signalling is a well-established oncogenic pathway, and its ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1) is overexpressed in estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancers and associated with poor patient prognosis. Hence, DLL1 has become an interesting therapeutic target for breast cancer. Here, the development of specific functional blocking anti-DLL1 antibodies with potential activity against ER+ breast cancer cells is reported. Human DLL1 proteins, containing the essential regions for binding to the Notch receptor and Notch signalling activation, were produced and used to select specific scFv antibody fragments by phage display. Fifteen unique scFvs were identified and reformatted into full IgGs. Characterization of these antibodies by ELISA, surface plasmon resonance and flow cytometry enabled selection of three specific anti-DLL1 IgGs, sharing identical VH regions, with nM affinities. Cellular assays on ER+ breast cancer MCF-7 cells showed that one of the IgGs (IgG-69) was able to partially impair DLL1-mediated activation of the Notch pathway, as determined by Notch reporter and RT-qPCR assays, and to attenuate cell growth. Treatment of MCF-7 cells with IgG-69 reduced mammosphere formation, suggesting that it decreases the breast cancer stem cell subpopulation. These results support the use of this strategy to develop and identify potential anti-DLL1 antibodies candidates against breast cancer.
Skeletal metastases are the most common form of secondary tumour associated with prostate cancer (PCa). The aberrant function of bone cells neighbouring these tumours leads to the devel-opment of osteoblastic lesions. Communication between PCa cells and bone cells in bone envi-ronments governs both the formation/development of the associated lesion, and growth of the secondary tumour. Using osteoblasts as a model system, we observed that PCa cells and their conditioned medium could stimulate and increase mineralisation and osteoblasts' differentiation. Secreted factors within PCa-conditioned medium responsible for osteoblastic changes included small extracellular vesicles (sEVs), which were sufficient to drive osteoblastogenesis. Using MiR-seq, we profiled the miRNA content of PCa sEVs, showing that miR-16-5p was highly ex-pressed. MiR-16 was subsequently higher in EV-treated 7F2 cells and a miR-16 mimic could also stimulate mineralisation. Next, using RNA-seq of extracellular vesicle (EV)-treated 7F2 cells, we observed a large degree of gene downregulation and an increased mineralisation. Ingenuity® Pathway Analysis (IPA®) revealed that miR-16-5p (and other miRs) was a likely upstream effec-tor. MiR-16-5p targets in 7F2 cells, possibly involved in osteoblastogenesis, were included for val-idation, namely AXIN2, PLSCR4, ADRB2 and DLL1. We then confirmed the targeting and dow-regulation of these genes by sEV miR-16-5p using luciferase UTR (untranslated region) reporters. Conversely, the overexpression of PLSCR4, ADRB2 and DLL1 lead to decreased osteoblastogene-sis. These results indicate that miR-16 is an inducer of osteoblastogenesis and is transmitted through prostate cancer-derived sEVs. The mechanism is a likely contributor towards the for-mation of osteoblastic lesions in metastatic PCa.
BACKGROUND: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a common malignancy around the globe. Increasing long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been confirmed to be associated with the progression of cancers, including NSCLC. Long intergenic non-protein coding RNA 1783 (LINC01783) is a novel lncRNA and its regulatory function as competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) has not been studied in NSCLC.METHODS: RT-qPCR measured the expression level of LINC01783 in NSCLC cells. CCK-8, EdU, transwell and wound healing assays were conducted to detect cell proliferation, migration and invasion in NSCLC. The relationship between miR-432-5p and LINC01783 along with delta like 1 (DLL-1) was illustrated by RNA pull down, RIP and luciferase reporter assays.RESULTS: LINC01783 was found remarkably increased in NSCLC cell lines, and down-regulation of LINC01783 suppressed cell proliferation, migration and invasion. Then, we discovered Notch pathway was related to the progression of NSCLC, and DLL-1 expression was reduced by LINC01783 knockdown. Furthermore, DLL-1 overexpression could counteract the suppressive effects of LINC01783 down-regulation on the growth of NSCLC cells. MiR-432-5p was observed to be the mutual miRNA that could bind with both LINC01783 and DLL-1. Overexpression of miR-432-5p inhibited DLL-1 expression. In the rescue assays, miR-432-5p depletion offset the impacts of LINC01783 knockdown, and then DLL-1 silence recovered the influence of miR-432-5p down-regulation on NSCLC cell growth.CONCLUSION: LINC01783 aggravates NSCLC cell growth by regulating Notch pathway and sponging miR-432-5p, being a potential target in the treatment for NSCLC.
PURPOSE: To assess the cellular and molecular effects of lidocaine on muscles/myoblasts.METHODS: Cultured myogenic precursor (C2C12) cells were treated with varying concentrations of lidocaine.RESULTS: Cell viability of C2C12 cells was inhibited by lidocaine in a concentration-dependent manner, with concentrations ≥0.08%, producing a dramatic reduction in cell viability. These ≥0.08% concentrations of lidocaine arrested cell cycles of C2C12 cells in the G0/G1 phase. Moreover, lidocaine inhibited cell migration and myogenic processes in C2C12 cells at low concentrations. Results from QRT-PCR assays revealed that following treatment with lidocaine, Notch1, Notch2, Hes1, Csl and Dll4 all showed higher levels of expression, while no changes were observed in Mmal1, Hey1, Dll1 and Jag1.CONCLUSION: This work provides the first description of the effects of lidocaine upon the regeneration of muscles and maintenance of satellite cells at the cellular and molecular levels. In specific, we found that the Dll4-Notch-Csl-Hes1 axis was up-regulated suggesting that the Notch signaling pathway was involved in producing these effects of lidocaine. These findings provide a new and important foundation for future investigations into the effects of drug therapies in muscle diseases.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2021 Mar 15;12(1):1766.
Follicular B (FoB) and marginal zone B (MZB) cells are functionally and spatially distinct mature B cell populations in the spleen, originating from a Notch2-dependent fate decision after splenic influx of immature transitional B cells. In the B cell follicle, a Notch2-signal is provided by DLL-1-expressing fibroblasts. However, it is unclear whether FoB cells, which are in close contact with these DLL-1 expressing fibroblasts, can also differentiate to MZB cells if they receive a Notch2-signal. Here, we show induced Notch2IC-expression in FoB cells re-programs mature FoB cells into bona fide MZB cells as is evident from the surface phenotype, localization, immunological function and transcriptome of these cells. Furthermore, the lineage conversion from FoB to MZB cells occurs in immunocompetent wildtype mice. These findings demonstrate plasticity between mature FoB and MZB cells that can be driven by a singular signaling event, the activation of Notch2.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: aISCs (aISCs) are sensitive to acute insults including chemotherapy and irradiation. Regeneration after aISC depletion has primarily been explored in irradiation (IR). However, the cellular origin of epithelial regeneration after doxorubicin (DXR), a common chemotherapeutic, is poorly understood.METHODS: We monitored DXR's effect on aISCs by enumerating Lgr5-eGFP+ and Olfm4+ crypts, cleaved caspase-3 (CASP3+) immunofluorescence, and time-lapse organoid imaging. Lineage tracing from previously identified regenerative cell populations (Bmi1+, Hopx+, Dll1+, and Defa6+) was performed with DXR damage. Lineage tracing from aISCs was compared with lineage tracing from early progeny cells (transit-amplifying cells arising from aISCs 1 day predamage) in the context of DXR and IR. We compared stem cell and DNA damage response (DDR) transcripts in isolated aISCs and early progeny cells 6 and 24 hours after DXR.RESULTS: Epithelial regeneration after DXR primarily arose from early progeny cells generated by aISCs. Early progeny cells upregulated stem cell gene expression and lacked apoptosis induction (6 hours DXR: 2.5% of CASP3+ cells, p<0.0001). aISCs downregulated stem cell gene expression and underwent rapid apoptosis (6 hours DXR: 63.4% of CASP3+ cells). There was minimal regenerative contribution from Bmi1+, Hopx+, Dll1+, and Defa6+-expressing populations. In homeostasis, 48.4% of early progeny cells were BrdU+, and expressed low levels of DDR transcripts.CONCLUSIONS: We show that DXR effectively depleted aISCs in the small intestine and subsequent epithelial regeneration depended on nonquiescent early progeny cells of aISCs. The chemoresistant phenotype of the early progeny cells may rely on a dampened DDR in contrast to aISCs' robust DDR, which facilitates expeditious apoptosis.
Researchers have developed several three-dimensional (3D) culture systems, including spheroids, organoids, and tumoroids with increased properties of cancer stem cells (CSCs), also called cancer-initiating cells (CICs). Drug resistance is a crucial issue involving recurrence in cancer patients. Many studies on anti-cancer drugs have been reported using 2D culture systems, whereas 3D cultured tumoroids have many advantages for assessing drug sensitivity and resistance. Here, we aimed to investigate whether Cisplatin (a DNA crosslinker), Imatinib (a multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitor), and 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU: an antimetabolite) alter the tumoroid growth of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). Gene expression signatures of highly metastatic aggregative CRC (LuM1 cells) vs. low-metastatic, non-aggregative CRC (Colon26 and NM11 cells) were analyzed using microarray. To establish a 3D culture-based multiplexing reporter assay system, LuM1 was stably transfected with the Mmp9 promoter-driven ZsGreen fluorescence reporter gene, which was designated as LuM1/m9 cells and cultured in NanoCulture Plate®, a gel-free 3D culture device. LuM1 cells highly expressed mRNA encoding ABCG2 (a drug resistance pump, i.e., CSC/CIC marker), other CSC/CIC markers (DLL1, EpCAM, podoplanin, STAT3/5), pluripotent stem cell markers (Sox4/7, N-myc, GATA3, Nanog), and metastatic markers (MMPs, Integrins, EGFR), compared to the other two cell types. Hoechst efflux stem cell-like side population was increased in LuM1 (7.8%) compared with Colon26 (2.9%), both of which were markedly reduced by verapamil treatment, an ABCG2 inhibitor. Smaller cell aggregates of LuM1 were more sensitive to Cisplatin (at 10 μM), whereas larger tumoroids with increased ABCG2 expression were insensitive. Notably, Cisplatin (2 μM) and Imatinib (10 μM) at low concentrations significantly promoted tumoroid formation (cell aggregation) and increased Mmp9 promoter activity in mCRC LuM1/m9, while not cytotoxic to them. On the other hand, 5-FU significantly inhibited tumoroid growth, although not completely. Thus, drug resistance in cancer with increased stem cell properties was modeled using the gel-free 3D cultured tumoroid system. The tumoroid culture is useful and easily accessible for the assessment of drug sensitivity and resistance.
Pidilizumab is a monoclonal antibody tested against several types of malignancies, such as lymphoma and metastatic melanoma, showing promising results. In 2016, the FDA put Pidilizumab's clinical studies on partial hold due to emerging evidence pointing to the antibody target uncertainty. Although initial studies indicated an interaction with the PD-1 checkpoint receptor, recent updates assert that Pidilizumab binds primarily to Notch ligand DLL1. However, a detailed description of which interactions coordinate antibody-antigen complex formation is lacking. Therefore, this study uses computational tools to identify molecular interactions between Pidilizumab and its reported targets PD-1 and DLL1. A docking methodology was validated and applied to determine the binding modes between modeled Pidilizumab scFvs and the two antigens. We used Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations to verify the complexes' stability and submitted the resulting trajectory files to MM/PBSA and Principal Component Analysis. A set of different prediction tools determined scFv interface hot-spots. Whereas docking and MD simulations revealed that the antibody fragments do not interact straightforwardly with PD-1, ten scFv hot-spots, including Met93 and Leu112, mediated the interaction with the DLL1 C2 domain. The interaction triggered a conformational selection-like effect on DLL1, allowing new hydrogen bonds on the β3-β4 interface loop. The unprecedented structural data on Pidilizumab's interactions provided novel evidence that its legitimate target is the DLL1 protein and offered structural insight on how these molecules interact, shedding light on the pathways that could be affected by the use of this essential immunobiological. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
INTRODUCTION: Multi-drug resistance (MDR) is a hindrance toward the successful treatment of cancers. The primary mechanism that gives rise to acquired chemoresistance is the overexpression of adenosine triphosphate-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. The dysregulation of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) is a widely concerned reason contributing to this phenotype.AREAS COVERED: In this review, we describe the role of intracellular and exosomal ncRNAs including microRNAs (miRNAs), long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), and circular RNAs (circRNAs) in ABC transporters-induced tumor MDR. Meanwhile, we will introduce the potential therapeutic strategies which reverse MDR in terms of reducing the expression of ABC transporters via targeting ncRNAs, like nucleic acid delivery with nanoparticles as well as miRNAs-targeted small molecular compounds.EXPERT OPINION: The dysregulated ncRNAs-mediated overexpression of ABC transporters in chemo-resistant cancer is not negligible. Finding out the underlying mechanism may provide a theoretical basis for clinical therapy of cancer MDR, and the emergence of new approaches for gene therapy targeting ncRNAs to suppress ABC transporters makes reversing cancer MDR possible despite its clinical application requires further investigations. Also, the discovered ncRNAs regulating ABC transporters in chemo-resistant cancers are just a tip of the iceberg of the genetic transcripts, especially for circRNAs, which justify more concern.Abbreviations: MDR, multi-drug resistance; ABC, adenosine triphosphate-binding cassette; NcRNAs, non-coding RNAs; MiRNAs, microRNAs; LncRNAs, long non-coding RNAs; CircRNAs, circular RNAs; CeRNAs, competing endogenous RNAs; 3'UTR, 3'-untranslated regions; SLC, solute carrier; ABCB1/MDR1, ABC subfamily B member 1; ABCG2/BCRP, ABC subfamily G member 2; ABCCs/MRPs, ABC subfamily C 1 to 12; DLL1: Delta-like protein 1; DTX, docetaxel; DOX/ADM/ADR, doxorubicin/adriamycin; PTX, paclitaxel; VBL, vinblastine; VCR, vincristine; MTX, methotrexate; CDDP/DDP, cisplatin/cis-diaminedichloroplatinum; OXA/L-OHP, oxaliplatin; TMZ, temozolomide; 5-FU, 5-fluorouracil; MTA, pemetrexed; NSCLC, non-small cell lung carcinoma; HCC, hepatocellular carcinoma; CRC, colorectal carcinoma; RB, retinoblastoma; RCC, renal cell carcinoma; OS, osteosarcoma; PDAC, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma; TNBC, triple-negative breast cancer.
This study investigated the role of Notch and Wnt cell signaling interplay in the mouse early embryo, and its effects on fetal development. Developmental kinetics was evaluated in embryos in vitro cultured from the 8-16-cell to the hatched blastocyst stage in the presence of signaling inhibitors of Notch (DAPT) and/or Wnt (DKK1). An embryo subset was evaluated for differential cell count and gene transcription of Notch (receptors Notch1-4, ligands Dll1, Dll4, Jagged1-2, effectors Hes1-2) and Wnt (Wnt3a, Lrp6, Gsk3β, C-myc, Tcf4, β-catenin) components, E-cadherin and pluripotency and differentiation markers (Sox2, Oct4, Klf4, Cdx2), whereas a second subset was evaluated for implantation ability and development to term following transfer into recipients. Notch and Wnt blockades had significant opposing effects on developmental kinetics - Notch blockade retarded while Wnt blockade fastened development. This evidences that Notch and Wnt regulate the pace of embryo kinetics by respectively speeding and braking development. Blockades significantly changed the transcription profile of Sox2, Oct4, Klf4 and Cdx2, and Notch and double blockades significantly changed embryonic cell numbers and cell ratio. The double blockade induced more severe phenotypes than those expected from the cumulative effects of single blockades. Implantation ability was unaffected, but Notch and double blockades significantly decreased fetal development to term. Compared to control embryos, Notch blockade and Wnt blockade embryos originated, respectively, significantly lighter and heavier fetuses. In conclusion, Notch and Wnt signaling interplay in the regulation of the pace of early embryo kinetics, and their actions at this stage have significant carry-over effects on later fetal development to term.
The rapid renewal and repair of the intestinal mucosa are based on intestinal stem cells (ISC), which are located at the crypt bottom. Paneth cells are an essential component in the crypt, which served as the niche for ISC development. However, in the chicken, how the function of Paneth cells changes during intestinal inflammation is unclear and is the key to understand the mechanism of mucosal repair. In the present study, 36 HyLine White chickens (7 d of age, n = 6) were randomly divided into 1 control and 5 lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection groups. The chickens were injected (i.p.) with PBS in the control group, however, were injected (i.p.) with LPS (10 mg/kg BW) in the LPS injection groups, which would be sampled at 5 time points (1 h postinjection [hpi], 2 hpi, 4 hpi, 6 hpi, and 8 hpi). Results showed that tumor necrosis factor-α mRNA transcription in duodenal tissue increased gradually since 1 hpi, peaked at 4 hpi, and then reduced remarkably, indicating that 4 hpi of LPS was the early stage of intestinal inflammation. Meanwhile, the MUC2 expression in duodenal tissue was dramatically reduced since 1 hpi of LPS. The ISC marker, Lgr5 and Bmi1, in the duodenal crypt were reduced from 1 hpi to 4 hpi and elevated later. Accordingly, the hydroethidine staining showed that the reactive oxygen species level, which drives the differentiation of ISC, in the duodenal crypt reduced obviously at 1 hpi and recovered gradually since 4 hpi. The analysis of Paneth cells showed that many swollen mitochondria appeared in Paneth cells at 4 hpi of LPS. Meanwhile, the Lysozyme transcription in the duodenal crypt was substantially decreased since 1 hpi of LPS. However, the Wnt3a and Dll1 in duodenal crypt decreased at 1 hpi of LPS, then increased gradually. In conclusion, Paneth cells were impaired at the early stage of intestinal inflammation, then recovered rapidly. Thus, the ISC activity was reduced at first and recovery soon.
Author information:(1)College of Laboratory Medicine, Chongqing Medical University//Key Laboratory of Clinical Laboratory Diagnostics of Ministry of Education, Chongqing 400016, China.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) drives high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia and cancer; for unknown reasons, this occurs most often in the cervical transformation zone. Either mutation or HPV E6-driven inhibition of Notch1 can drive neoplastic development in stratified squamous epithelia. However, the contribution of Notch1 and its Delta-like ligands (DLL) to site susceptibility remains poorly understood. Here, we map DLL1/DLL4 expression in cell populations present in normal cervical biopsies by immunofluorescence. In vitro keratinocyte 2D monolayer models, growth assays, and organotypic raft cultures were used to assess the functional role of DLL-Notch signaling in uninfected cells and its modulation by HPV16 in neoplasia. An RNA sequencing-based gene signature was used to suggest the cell of origin of 279 HPV-positive cervical carcinomas from The Cancer Genome Atlas and to relate this to disease prognosis. Finally, the prognostic impact of DLL4 expression was investigated in three independent cervical cancer patient cohorts. Three molecular cervical carcinoma subtypes were identified, with reserve cell tumors the most common and linked to relatively good prognosis. Reserve cells were characterized as DLL1-/DLL4+, a proliferative phenotype that is temporarily observed during squamous metaplasia and wound healing but appears to be sustained by HPV16 E6 in raft models of low-grade and, more prominently, high-grade neoplasia. High expression of DLL4 was associated with an increased likelihood of cervical cancer-associated death and recurrence. Taken together, DLL4-Notch1 signaling reflects a proliferative cellular state transiently present during physiologic processes but inherent to cervical reserve cells, making them strongly resemble neoplastic tissue even before HPV infection has occurred. SIGNIFICANCE: This study investigates cervical cancer cell-of-origin populations and describes a DLL-Notch1 phenotype that is associated with disease prognosis and that might help identify cells that are susceptible to HPV-induced carcinogenesis.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2022 Jul 7;13(1):3927.
Comment in    Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2021 Mar;41(3):1124-1126.
The Notch receptors are a family of transmembrane proteins that mediate direct cell-cell interactions and control numerous cell-fate specifications in humans. The extracellular domains of mammalian Notch proteins contain 29-36 tandem epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats, most of which have O-linked glycan modifications: O-glucose added by POGLUT1, O-fucose added by POFUT1 and elongated by Fringe enzymes, and O-GlcNAc added by EOGT. The extracellular domain is also N-glycosylated. Mutations in the glycosyltransferases modifying Notch have been identified in several diseases, including Dowling-Degos Disease (haploinsufficiency of POFUT1 or POGLUT1), a form of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (autosomal recessive mutations in POGLUT1), Spondylocostal Dysostosis 3 (autosomal recessive mutations in LFNG), Adams-Oliver syndrome (autosomal recessive mutations in EOGT), and some cancers (amplification, gain or loss-of-function of POFUT1, Fringe enzymes, POGLUT1, MGAT3). Here we review the characteristics of these diseases and potential molecular mechanisms.
The human intestinal stem cell niche supports self-renewal and epithelial function, but little is known about its development. We used single-cell mRNA sequencing with in situ validation approaches to interrogate human intestinal development from 7-21 weeks post conception, assigning molecular identities and spatial locations to cells and factors that comprise the niche. Smooth muscle cells of the muscularis mucosa, in close proximity to proliferative crypts, are a source of WNT and RSPONDIN ligands, whereas EGF is expressed far from crypts in the villus epithelium. Instead, an PDGFRAHI/F3HI/DLL1HI mesenchymal population lines the crypt-villus axis and is the source of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family member NEUREGULIN1 (NRG1). In developing intestine enteroid cultures, NRG1, but not EGF, permitted increased cellular diversity via differentiation of secretory lineages. This work highlights the complexities of intestinal EGF/ERBB signaling and delineates key niche cells and signals of the developing intestine.
We previously showed that, according to the frequency and distribution of specific cell types, the rainbow trout (RT) intestinal mucosa can be divided in two regions that form a complex nonlinear three-dimensional (3D) pattern and have a different renewal rate. This work had two aims. First, we investigated whether the unusual distribution of cell populations reflects a similar distribution of functional activities. To this end, we determined the protein expression pattern of three well-defined enterocytes functional markers: peptide transporter 1 (PepT1), sodium-glucose/galactose transporter 1 (SGLT-1), and fatty-acid-binding protein 2 (Fabp2). Second, we characterized the structure of RT intestinal stem-cell (ISC) niche and determined whether the different proliferative is accompanied by a different organization and/or extension of the stem-cell population. We studied the expression and localization of well-characterized mammal ISC markers: LGR5, HOPX, SOX9, NOTCH1, DLL1, and WNT3A. Our results indicate that morphological similarity is associated with similar function only between the first portion of the mid-intestine and the apical part of the complex folds in the second portion. Mammal ISC markers are all expressed in RT, but their localization is completely different, suggesting also substantial functional differences. Lastly, higher renewal rates are supported by a more abundant ISC population.
BACKGROUND: SAMP1/YitFcsJ (SAMP1) mice spontaneously develop terminal ileitis resembling human Crohn disease. SAMP1 mice have exhibited alteration of epithelial cell lineage distribution and an overall proliferation of the crypt cell population; however, it has not been evaluated whether epithelial differentiation is impaired because of dysfunction of intestinal stem cells (ISCs) or their niche factors.METHODS: Using the intestine of SAMP1 mice aged 10 to 14 weeks, morphometric alterations in the crypt-villus architecture, ISCs, crypt cells, and differentiated cells; organoid formation capacity of intestinal crypts; and niche signaling pathways were analyzed and compared with those of age-matched control AKR/J (AKR) mice.RESULTS: The ileum of SAMP1 mice showed increased depth of intestinal crypts and decreased surface area of the villi compared with those in the ileum of AKR mice. The number of ISCs in the ileal crypts did not differ between SAMP1 and AKR mice; however, the number of Paneth cells decreased and the number of transient amplifying cells increased. The organoid formation rate of the ileal crypts of SAMP1 mice decreased significantly compared with that of AKR mice. The performance of RNA sequencing for intestinal crypts found that the expression of ISC niche factors, such as Wnt3, Dll1, and Dll4, was decreased significantly in the ileal crypts of SAMP1 mice compared with those of AKR mice. Among the ISC niche signals, the Notch signaling-related genes tended to be downregulated. In particular, immunocytochemistry revealed that the expression of Paneth cell-expressing Notch ligand Dll4 was significantly decreased in the intestinal tissue and organoids of SAMP1 mice compared with those of AKR mice.CONCLUSIONS: Depletion of niche factors for ISCs contributes to the alteration of epithelial differentiation in SAMP1 mice.
Erratum in    Stem Cell Res Ther. 2020 Dec 17;11(1):544.
Cell therapy using T cells has revolutionized medical care in recent years but limitations are associated with the difficulty of genome editing of the cells, the production of a sufficient number of cells and standardization of the product. Human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) can self-renew and differentiate into T cells to provide a standardized homogenous product of defined origin in indefinite quantity, therefore they are of great potential to alleviate limitations of therapeutic T cell production. The differentiation of hPSCs takes place in two steps: first the induction of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs), then the induction of lymphopoiesis by Notch signaling. However, the differentiation of T cells from hPSCs can be difficult and lack reproducibility. One parameter that needs to be better assessed is the potential of DLL1 vs. DLL4 ligands of the Notch pathway to induce T cells. In addition, culture of hPSCs is labor-intensive and not compatible with GMP production, especially when they are cultured on feeder cells. Thus, the definition of a robust GMP-compatible differentiation protocol from hPSCs cultured in feeder-free conditions would increase the accessibility to off-the-shelf hematopoietic and T cell progenitors derived from hPSCs. In this article, we describe an efficient, rapid and reproducible protocol for the generation of hematopoietic and T cell progenitors in two steps: (1) generation of HSPCs from embryoid bodies (EB) in serum free medium and GMP-compatible feeder-free systems, (2) directed differentiation of hPSC-derived HSPCs into T-cell progenitors in the presence of bone marrow stromal cells expressing Notch-ligands OP9-DLL1 vs. OP9-DLL4.
BACKGROUNDS: Recent studies have shown that various mammalian non-neuronal cells synthesize acetylcholine (ACh) in situ and operate cholinergic signaling via nicotinic and muscarinic ACh receptors (nAChRs and mAChRs). Understanding the mechanisms that control intestinal stem cell (ISC) function through activation of nAChR signaling is critical for developing therapeutic interventions for diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Previously, by conducting RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) analysis using crypt-villus organoid cultures, we found that the Hippo signaling pathway, a stem cell regulating network, is upregulated in ISCs after treatment with nicotine. Here, we explored the roles of nAChR signaling through activation of the Hippo signaling pathway.METHODS: RNA-Seq data were validated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis. β4-knock-in mice were generated, and experiments using the knock-in mice and their intestinal organoids were carried out.RESULTS: RNA-Seq and qRT-PCR analyses demonstrated that the expression of YAP1/TAZ and Notch1/Dll1 was upregulated after treatment with nicotine. However, a nAChR antagonist, mecamylamine, strongly inhibited the expression of these genes. Notably, we found that in β4-knock-in mouse small intestines, expression of YAP1 and Notch1 was significantly reduced, but not that of TAZ and Dll1, suggesting that Hippo and Notch signaling pathways are putative targets for nAChR signaling. Furthermore, fluorescent signals were detected in Paneth cells that interact with ISCs at the crypt bottom, indicating an interaction between Paneth cells and ISCs via nAChR signaling through the activation of Hippo and Notch signaling pathways.CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that upregulated nAChR signaling contributes to the maintenance of ISC activity and balances differentiation through activation of Hippo and Notch signaling pathways.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a heterogeneous disease. This study identified T1D cases with low polygenic risk score (PRS) to better represent T1D cases with less prominent autoimmune response (T1bD), and performed a gene-based association study to identify novel susceptibility loci in two independent cohorts, characterized by low PRS. The Notch ligand Delta-like 1 gene (DLL1) was identified with genome-wide significance in both cohorts, highlighting the roles of DLL1 genetic variants in T1D patients with low PRS, supported by functional evidence from a recent study by Rubey et al.
Opportunistic bacterial infections are dreaded risks in patients following liver transplantation (LTX), even though patients receive an antibiotic prophylaxis. The timely recognition of such an infection may be delayed, as culture-based diagnostic methods are linked with a relevant gap in performance. We measured plasma concentrations of Delta-like canonical Notch ligand 1 (DLL1) in 93 adult patients at seven consecutive time points after liver transplantation and correlated the results to the occurrence of culture-proven bacterial infection or a complicated clinical course (composite endpoint of two or more complications: graft rejection or failure, acute kidney failure, acute lung injury, or 90-day mortality). Patients exhibited elevated plasma concentrations after liver transplantation over the whole 28 d observation time. Patients with bacterial infection showed increased DLL1 levels compared to patients without infection. Persistent elevated levels of DLL1 on day 7 and afterward following LTX were able to indicate patients at risk for a complicated course. Plasma levels of DLL1 following LTX may be useful to support an earlier detection of bacterial infections in combination with C-reactive protein (CRP) and procalcitonin (PCT), or they may lead to risk stratification of patients as a single marker for post-operative complications. (Clinical Trial Notation. German Clinical Trials Register: DRKS00005480).
BACKGROUND: Mono-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (MEHP) is a major metabolite of di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP). Our previous researches have shown that MEHP can induce lipid accumulation in preadipocytes, while, the underlying mechanism is unclear. The present study was undertaken to clarify the effect of Notch pathway on lipid accumulation induced by MEHP.METHODS: 3T3-L1 preadipocytes were exposed to MEHP (0, 10, 50, 250 µM and 0.1%DMSO) for the whole differentiation phase. Then the level of TG and cell cycle were detected. RT-PCR was used to detect the mRNA expression and Western blot was used to detect the expression of protein by Notch pathway genes and lipid metabolic related genes.RESULTS: In this study, the level of TG in the 250 µM and 250 µM MEHP groups was significantly higher than that in the control, DMSO and 10 µM MEHP groups (P < 0.05). The relative mRNA level of Notch-1, Notch-3, Notch-4, Jagged-2 and Dll-4 in 250 µM group was higher than other groups (P < 0.05). The expression of Notch signal pathway proteins increased in MEHP treated groups, and the expression of Notch-2, Jagged-1, Jagged-2, Dll-1 and Dll-4 in 250 µM group were significantly higher than control group (P < 0.05). The expression of lipid metabolic related gene mRNA and protein increased in MEHP treated groups, and 250 µM MEHP group was higher than other groups (P < 0.05). The intracellular TG content was significantly correlated with the expression levels of Notch-1 and Jagged-2 mRNA (P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: In this study, we have found that MEHP exposure could increase the TG content in 3T3-L1 cells. The expression of Notch pathway mRNA and proteins were disturbed by the MEHP. Notch-1 and its ligand Jagged-2 play a critical role in the abnormal lipid metabolism in 3T3-L1 cells caused by MEHP.
BACKGROUND: Fatty acid-binding protein 3 (FABP3) is a cytosolic carrier protein of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and regulates cellular metabolism. However, the physiological functions of FABP3 in immune cells and how FABP3 regulates inflammatory responses remain unclear.METHODS: Contact hypersensitivity (CHS) induced by 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) and fluorescein isothiocyanate was applied to the skin wild-type and Fabp3-/- mice. Skin inflammation was assessed using FACS, histological, and qPCR analyses. The development of γ/δ T cells was evaluated by a co-culture system with OP9/Dll1 cells in the presence or absence of transgene of FABP3.RESULTS: Fabp3-deficient mice exhibit a more severe phenotype of contact hypersensitivity (CHS) accompanied by infiltration of IL-17-producing Vγ4+ γ/δ T cells that critically control skin inflammation. In Fabp3-/- mice, we found a larger proportion of Vγ4+ γ/δ T cells in the skin, even though the percentage of total γ/δ T cells did not change at steady state. Similarly, juvenile Fabp3-/- mice also contained a higher amount of Vγ4+ γ/δ T cells not only in the skin but in the thymus when compared with wild-type mice. Furthermore, thymic double-negative (DN) cells expressed FABP3, and FABP3 negatively regulates the development of Vγ4+ γ/δ T cells in the thymus.CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that FABP3 functions as a negative regulator of skin inflammation through limiting pathogenic Vγ4+ γ/δ T-cell generation in the thymus.
Sprouting angiogenesis is a highly coordinately process controlled by vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-Notch signaling. Here we investigated whether Tripartite motif-containing 28 (TRIM28), which is an epigenetic modifier implicated in gene transcription and cell differentiation, is essential to mediate sprouting angiogenesis. We observed that knockdown of TRIM28 ortholog in zebrafish resulted in developmental vascular defect with disorganized and reduced vasculatures. Consistently, TRIM28 knockdown inhibited angiogenic sprouting of cultured endothelial cells (ECs), which exhibited increased mRNA levels of VEGFR1, Delta-like (DLL) 3, and Notch2 but reduced levels of VEGFR2, DLL1, DLL4, Notch1, Notch3, and Notch4.The regulative effects of TRIM28 on these angiogenic factors were partially mediated by hypoxia-inducible factor 1 α (HIF-1α) and recombination signal-binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region (RBPJκ). In vitro DNA-binding assay showed that TRIM28 knockdown increased the association of RBPJκ with DNA sequences containing HIF-1α-binding sites. Moreover, the phosphorylation of TRIM28 was controlled by VEGF and Notch1 through a mechanism involving RBPJκ-dual-specificity phosphatase (DUSP)-p38 MAPK, indicating a negative feedback mechanism. These findings established TRIM28 as a crucial regulator of VEGFR-Notch signaling circuit through HIF-1α and RBPJκ in EC sprouting angiogenesis.
Folic acid plays an essential role in the central nervous system and cancer. This study aimed to screen genes related to folic acid metabolism. Datasets (GSE80587, GSE65267 and GSE116299) correlated to folic acid were screened in the Gene Expression Omnibus. Weighed gene co-expression network analysis was performed to identify modules associated with sample traits of folic acid and organs (brain, prostate and kidney). Functional enrichment analysis was performed for the eigengenes in modules that were significantly correlated with sample traits. Accordingly, the hub genes and key nodes in the modules were identified using the protein interaction network. A total of 17,252 genes in three datasets were identified. One module, which included 97 genes that were highly correlated with sample traits (including folic acid treatment [cor = -0.57, P = 3e-04] and kidney [cor = -0.68, p = 4e-06]), was screened out. Hub genes, including tetratricopeptide repeat protein 38 (Ttc38) and miR-185, as well as those (including Sema3A, Insl3, Dll1, Msh4 and Snai1) associated with "neuropilin binding", "regulation of reproductive process" and "vitamin D metabolic process", were identified. Genes, including Ttc38, Sema3A, Insl3, Dll1, Msh4 and Snai1, were the novel factors that may be associated with the development of the kidneys and related to folic acid treatment.
Macrophage activation by Toll receptors is an essential event in the development of the response against pathogens. NOTCH signaling pathway is involved in the control of macrophage activation and the inflammatory processes. In this work, we have characterized NOTCH signaling in macrophages activated by Toll-like receptor (TLR) triggering and determined that DLL1 and DLL4 are the main ligands responsible for NOTCH signaling. We have identified ADAM10 as the main protease implicated in NOTCH processing and activation. We have also observed that furin, which processes NOTCH receptors, is induced by TLR signaling in a NOTCH-dependent manner. NOTCH3 is the only NOTCH receptor expressed in resting macrophages. Its expression increased rapidly in the first hours after TLR4 activation, followed by a gradual decrease, which was coincident with an elevation of the expression of the other NOTCH receptors. All NOTCH1, 2 and 3 contribute to the increased NOTCH signaling detected in activated macrophages. We also observed a crosstalk between NOTCH3 and NOTCH1 during macrophage activation. Finally, our results highlight the relevance of NOTCH3 in the activation of NF-κB, increasing p65 phosphorylation by p38 MAP kinase. Our data identify, for the first time, NOTCH3 as a relevant player in the control of inflammation.
PURPOSE: Gastric cancer is one of the most prevalent cancers worldwide and the second most common cause for cancer associated mortality. Anti-tumor effects of tamoxifen in breast cancer are well-established. However, no study has so far investigated the effects of tamoxifen on gene expression of Notch1 and DLL1 in gastric cancer cell line. The present study was conducted to explore the effects of tamoxifen, as a repurposed drug, on gene expression of Notch1 and DLL1 in MKN-45, a gastric cancer cell line.METHODS: MKN-45 cells were cultured in DMEM/F12 medium containing 10% FBS. Cytotoxic effects of tamoxifen on these cells at various concentrations were evaluated by trypan blue exclusion assay. For gene expression analysis, the cells were first incubated with 100 μM tamoxifen followed by total RNA extraction from treated and control cells. Then, cDNA was synthesized. Quantitative real-time PCR using specific primers for Notch1 and DLL1 was performed to assess the effect of tamoxifen on the transcript of them.RESULTS: Treatment with tamoxifen decreased viability of MKN-45 cells in a dose-dependent manner. CC50 was estimated to be around 200 μM. Also, tamoxifen at the dose of 100 μM could significantly downregulate mRNA levels of both Notch1 and DLL1 genes as compared with untreated cells by 24% and 92%, respectively.CONCLUSION: Based on these results, tamoxifen interferes with Notch signaling pathway through downregulating the expression of Notch1 and DLL1 genes and this could be regarded as a mechanism for its anti-cancer effects in this malignant disease.
The mouse T-box transcription factors T and Tbx6 are co-expressed in the primitive streak and have unique domains of expression; T is expressed in the notochord, while Tbx6 is expressed in the presomitic mesoderm. T-box factors are related through a shared DNA binding domain, the T-domain, and can therefore bind to similar DNA sequences at least in vitro We investigated the functional similarities and differences of T and Tbx6 DNA binding and transcriptional activity in vitro and their interaction genetically in vivo We show that at one target, Dll1, the T-domains of T and Tbx6 have different affinities for the binding sites present in the mesoderm enhancer. We further show using in vitro assays that T and Tbx6 differentially affect transcription with Tbx6 activating expression tenfold higher than T, that T and Tbx6 can compete at target gene enhancers, and that this competition requires a functional DNA binding domain. Next, we addressed whether T and Tbx6 can compete in vivo First, we generated embryos that express Tbx6 at greater than wild-type levels embryos and show that these embryos have short tails, resembling the T heterozygous phenotype. Next, using the dominant-negative TWis allele, we show that Tbx6+/- TWis/+ embryos share similarities with embryos homozygous for the Tbx6 hypomorphic allele rib-vertebrae, specifically fusions of several ribs and malformation of some vertebrae. Finally, we tested whether Tbx6 can functionally replace T using a knockin approach, which resulted in severe T null-like phenotypes in chimeric embryos generated with ES cells heterozygous for a Tbx6 knockin at the T locus. Altogether, our results of differences in affinity for DNA binding sites and transcriptional activity for T and Tbx6 provide a potential mechanism for the failure of Tbx6 to functionally replace T and possible competition phenotypes in vivo.
PM2.5 pollution is an important and urgent problem in China that can increase mortality and hospital admissions. Traffic-originated PM2.5 organic component (tPo) mainly contains polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Research has shown that PAHs can promote invasion, metastasis, and cancer stem cell properties in lung adenocarcinoma cells, but the exact toxicological mechanism is unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effect of lncRNAs on the progression of lung adenocarcinoma induced by tPo and the underlying mechanisms mediated by lncRNA-signaling pathway interactions. We found that chronic tPo treatment upregulated the expression of loc107985872, which further promoted cell invasion and migration, EMT and cancer stem cell properties via notch1 pathway in lung adenocarcinoma cells. Meanwhile, activation of the notch1 signaling pathway through loc107985872 might be associated with abnormally high expression of its upstream proteins, such as ADAM17, PSEN1 and DLL1. Moreover, tPo exposure induced EMT and the acquisition of cancer stem cell-like properties via the notch1 signaling pathway in vivo. In summary, loc107985872 upregulated by tPo promoted lung adenocarcinoma progression via the notch1 signaling pathway.
Notch signaling is a cellular pathway regulating cell-fate determination and adult tissue homeostasis. Little is known about how canonical Notch ligands or Fringe enzymes differentially affect NOTCH1 and NOTCH2. Using cell-based Notch signaling and ligand-binding assays, we evaluated differences in NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 responses to Delta-like (DLL) and Jagged (JAG) family members and the extent to which Fringe enzymes modulate their activity. In the absence of Fringes, DLL4-NOTCH1 activation was more than twice that of DLL4-NOTCH2, whereas all other ligands activated NOTCH2 similarly or slightly more than NOTCH1. However, NOTCH2 showed less sensitivity to the Fringes. Lunatic fringe (LFNG) enhanced NOTCH2 activation by DLL1 and -4, and Manic fringe (MFNG) inhibited NOTCH2 activation by JAG1 and -2. Mass spectral analysis showed that O-fucose occurred at high stoichiometry at most consensus sequences of NOTCH2 and that the Fringe enzymes modified more O-fucose sites of NOTCH2 compared with NOTCH1. Mutagenesis studies showed that LFNG modification of O-fucose on EGF8 and -12 of NOTCH2 was responsible for enhancement of DLL1-NOTCH2 activation, similar to previous reports for NOTCH1. In contrast to NOTCH1, a single O-fucose site mutant that substantially blocked the ability of MFNG to inhibit NOTCH2 activation by JAG1 could not be identified. Interestingly, elimination of the O-fucose site on EGF12 allowed LFNG to inhibit JAG1-NOTCH2 activation, and O-fucosylation on EGF9 was important for trafficking of both NOTCH1 and NOTCH2. Together, these studies provide new insights into the differential regulation of NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 by Notch ligands and Fringe enzymes.
Daily sunlight exposure damages the epidermal basement membrane (BM) and disrupts epidermal homeostasis. Inter-follicular epidermal stem cells (IFE-SCs) regulate epidermal proliferation and differentiation, which supports epidermal homeostasis. Here, we examine how photoaging affects the function of IFE-SCs and we identify key components in their cellular environment (niche). We found that sun-exposed skin showed a decrease of MCSP-positive and β1-integrin-positive cells concomitantly with a decrease of laminin-511 at the dermal-epidermal junction (DEJ), as compared with sun-protected skin. Higher levels of laminin-511 were associated with not only increased efficiency of colony formation, but also higher expression levels of MCSP as well as other stem cell markers such as Lrig1, ITGB1, CD44, CD46, DLL1, and K15 in keratinocytes from skin of 12- to 62-year-old subjects. UVB exposure to cultured human skin impaired laminin-511 integrity at the dermal-epidermal junction and reduced MCSP-positive basal epidermal cells as well as K15-positive cells. Combined treatment with matrix metalloproteinase and heparanase inhibitors protected the integrity of laminin-511 and inhibited the reduction of MCSP-positive cells and K15-positive cells. These results suggest that photoaging may reduce the levels of MCSP-positive and K15-positive epidermal stem/progenitor cells in the epidermis via loss of laminin-511 at the dermal-epidermal junction.
The long bone midshaft expands by forming primary osteons at the periosteal surface of cortical bone in humans and rodents. Osteoblastic bone formation in the vascular cavity in the center of primary osteons is delayed during cortical bone development. The mechanisms of the formation of primary osteons is not fully understood, however. Focusing on NOTCH1 signaling, an inhibitory signaling on osteoblastic bone formation, our immunohistochemical analysis revealed Delta like1 (DLL1), a ligand of NOTCH1, and the NOTCH1 intracellular domain (NICD, an activated form of NOTCH1) immunoreactivity, in the cuboidal osteoblasts lining the bone surface in the vascular cavity of primary osteons during postnatal growth in rats. Interestingly, five days after treatment of primary osteoblasts with ascorbic acid and β glycerophosphate, protein levels of both DLL1 and NICD increased transiently, indicating that DLL1 activates NOTCH1 in primary cultured osteoblasts. Thus, the results imply that DLL1-NOTCH1 signaling in osteoblasts is associated with primary osteonal bone formation.
Astrocytes have diverse functions that are supported by their anatomic localization between neurons and blood vessels. One of these functions is the clearance of extracellular glutamate. Astrocytes clear glutamate using two Na+-dependent glutamate transporters, GLT-1 (also called EAAT2) and GLAST (also called EAAT1). GLT-1 expression increases during synaptogenesis and is a marker of astrocyte maturation. Over 20 years ago, several groups demonstrated that astrocytes in culture express little or no GLT-1 and that neurons induce expression. We recently demonstrated that co-culturing endothelia with mouse astrocytes also induced expression of GLT-1 and GLAST. These increases were blocked by an inhibitor of γ-secretase. This and other observations are consistent with the hypothesis that Notch signaling is required, but the ligands involved were not identified. In the present study, we used rat astrocyte cultures to further define the mechanisms by which endothelia induce expression of GLT-1 and GLAST. We found that co-cultures of astrocytes and endothelia express higher levels of GLT-1 and GLAST protein and mRNA. That endothelia activate Hes5, a transcription factor target of Notch, in astrocytes. Using recombinant Notch ligands, anti-Notch ligand neutralizing antibodies, and shRNAs, we provide evidence that both Dll1 and Dll4 contribute to endothelia-dependent regulation of GLT-1. We also provide evidence that astrocytes secrete a factor(s) that induces expression of Dll4 in endothelia and that this effect is required for Notch-dependent induction of GLT-1. Together these studies indicate that reciprocal communication between astrocytes and endothelia is required for appropriate astrocyte maturation and that endothelia likely deploy additional non-Notch signals to induce GLT-1.
Intestinal crypts have great capacity for repair and regeneration after intestinal stem cell (ISC) injury. Here, we define the cellular remodeling process resulting from ISC niche interruption by transient Notch pathway inhibition in adult mice. Although ISCs were retained, lineage tracing demonstrated a marked reduction in ISC function after Notch disruption. Surprisingly, Notch ligand-expressing Paneth cells were rapidly lost by apoptotic cell death. The ISC-Paneth cell changes were followed by a regenerative response, characterized by expansion of cells expressing Notch ligands Dll1 and Dll4, enhanced Notch signaling, and a proliferative surge. Lineage tracing and organoid studies showed that Dll1-expressing cells were activated to function as multipotential progenitors, generating both absorptive and secretory cells and replenishing the vacant Paneth cell pool. Our analysis uncovered a dynamic, multicellular remodeling response to acute Notch inhibition to repair the niche and restore homeostasis. Notably, this crypt regenerative response did not require ISC loss.
BACKGROUND: Mammalian early embryo development requires a well-orchestrated interplay of cell signaling pathways. Notch is a major regulatory pathway involved in cell-fate determination in embryonic and adult scenarios. However, the role of Notch in embryonic pre-implantation development is controversial. In particular, Notch role on blastocyst development and hatching remains elusive, and a complete picture of the transcription and expression patterns of Notch components during this time-period is not available.RESULTS: This study provided a comprehensive view on the dynamics of individual embryo gene transcription and protein expression patterns of Notch components (receptors Notch1-4; ligands Dll1 and Dll4, Jagged1-2; and effectors Hes1-2), and their relationship with transcription of gene markers of pluripotency and differentiation (Sox2, Oct4, Klf4, Cdx2) during mouse blastocyst development and hatching. Transcription of Notch1-2, Jagged1-2 and Hes1 was highly prevalent and dynamic along stages of development, whereas transcription of Notch3-4, Dll4 and Hes2 had a low prevalence among embryos. Transcription levels of Notch1, Notch2, Jagged2 and Hes1 correlated with each other and with those of pluripotency and differentiation genes. Gene transcription was associated to protein expression, except for Jagged2, where high transcription levels in all embryos were not translated into protein. Presence of Notch signaling activity was confirmed through nuclear NICD and Hes1 detection, and downregulation of Hes1 transcription following canonical signaling blockade with DAPT. In vitro embryo culture supplementation with Jagged1 had no effect on embryo developmental kinetics. In contrast, supplementation with Jagged2 abolished Jagged1 transcription, downregulated Cdx2 transcription and inhibited blastocyst hatching. Notch signaling blockade by DAPT downregulated transcription of Sox2, and retarded embryo hatching.CONCLUSION: Transcription of Notch genes showed a dynamic pattern along blastocyst development and hatching. Data confirmed Notch signaling activity, and lead to the suggestion that Notch canonical signaling may be operating through Notch1, Notch3, Jagged1 and Hes1. Embryo culture supplementation with Jagged1 and Jagged2 unveiled a possible regulatory effect between Jagged1, Cdx2 and blastocyst hatching. Overall, results indicate that a deregulation in Notch signaling, either by its over or under-activation, affects blastocyst development and hatching.
Notch signaling provides an important cue in the mammalian developmental process. It is a key player in T cell development and function. Notch ligands such as Delta-like ligands (DLL) 1, 3, 4, and JAG1, 2 can impact Notch signaling positively or negatively, by trans-activation or cis-inhibition. Trans and cis interactions are receptor-ligand interaction on two adjacent cells and interaction on the same cell, respectively. The former sends an activation signal and the later, a signal for inhibition of Notch. However, earlier reports suggested that Notch is activated in the absence of Notch ligand-expressing APCs in a purified population of CD4 T cells. Thus, the role of ligands in Notch activation, in a purified population of CD4 T cells, remains obscure. In this study, we demonstrate that mature CD4 T cells are capable of expressing Notch ligands on their surface very early upon activation with soluble antibodies against CD3 and CD28. Moreover, signaling solely through CD28 induces Notch ligand expression and CD3 signaling inhibits ligand expression, in contrast to Notch which is induced by CD3 signaling. Additionally, by using decoys, mimicking the Notch extracellular domain, we demonstrated that DLL1, DLL4, and JAG1, expressed on the T cells, can cis-interact with the Notch receptor and inhibit activation of Notch. Thus, our data indicate a novel mechanism of the regulation of Notch ligand expression on CD4 T cells and its impact on activated Notch.
Delta-like ligands (DLLs) control Notch signaling. DLL1, DLL3 and DLL4 are frequently deregulated in cancer and influence tumor growth, the tumor vasculature and tumor immunity, which play different roles in cancer progression. DLLs have attracted intense research interest as anti-cancer therapeutics. In this review, we discuss the role of DLLs in cancer and summarize the emerging DLL-relevant targeting methods to aid future studies.
Platinum-based chemoradiotherapy is a mainstay of organ-preserving therapy for patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cancer (HNSCC). However, the disease eventually becomes resistant to treatment necessitating new therapies. Checkpoint kinase 1 and 2 (CHK1/2) are serine/threonine kinases that activate cell-cycle checkpoints and serve a critical role in the DNA-damage response (DDR). As resistance to cisplatin and radiation may involve a heightened DDR, we hypothesized that prexasertib, an inhibitor of CHK1/2, may enhance the cytotoxicity induced by cisplatin and irradiation in HNSCC. In this study, we found that combining prexasertib with cisplatin and radiation significantly decreased the in vitro survival fraction in HNSCC cell lines both with and without radiotherapy. Reduced survival was accompanied by inhibition of DNA repair checkpoint activation, which resulted in persistent DNA damage and increased apoptosis. In addition, NanoString analysis with the PanCancer Pathways Panel revealed that prexasertib downregulated NOTCH signaling target genes (NOTCH1, NOTCH2, and NOTCH3) and their associated ligands (JAG1, JAG2, SKP2, MAML2, and DLL1). Prexasertib also reduced NOTCH1, NOTCH3 and HES1 protein expression. Importantly, a significant tumor growth delay was observed in vivo in both human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive UM-SCC47 and HPV-negative UM-SCC1 cell line xenografts treated with prexasertib, cisplatin, and radiotherapy without increased toxicity as measured by mouse body weight. Taken together, prexasertib reduced NOTCH signaling and enhanced the in vitro and in vivo response of HNSCCs to cisplatin and radiation, suggesting combination therapy may increase clinical benefit. A clinical trial has recently completed accrual (NCT02555644).
Author information:(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Airforce Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Xijing Hospital, Airforce Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Xijing Hospital, Airforce Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: hexiaos@fmmu.edu.cn.
BACKGROUND: Onset of spermatogenesis at puberty is critically dependent on the activity of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and testosterone production by Leydig cells. The aim of this study was to examine whether activation of Notch receptors and expression of Notch ligands and effector genes in rat seminiferous epithelium are controlled by androgen signaling during puberty.METHODS: Peripubertal (5-week-old) Wistar rats received injections of flutamide (50 mg/kg bw) daily for 7 days to reduce androgen receptor (AR) signaling or a single injection of ethanedimethane sulphonate (EDS; 75 mg/kg bw) to reduce testosterone production. Gene and protein expressions were analyzed by real-time RT-PCR and western blotting, respectively, protein distribution by immunohistochemistry, and steroid hormone concentrations by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Statistical analyses were performed using one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey's post hoc test or by Kruskal-Wallis test, followed by Dunn's test.RESULTS: In both experimental models changes of a similar nature in the expression of Notch pathway components were found. Androgen deprivation caused the reduction of mRNA and protein expression of DLL4 ligand, activated forms of Notch1 and Notch2 receptors and HES1 and HEY1 effector genes (p < 0.05, p < 0.01, p < 0.001). In contrast, DLL1, JAG1 and HES5 expressions increased in seminiferous epithelium of both flutamide and EDS-treated rats (p < 0.05, p < 0.01, p < 0.001).CONCLUSIONS: Androgens and androgen receptor signaling may be considered as factors regulating Notch pathway activity and the expression of Hes and Hey genes in rat seminiferous epithelium during pubertal development. Further studies should focus on functional significance of androgen-Notch signaling cross-talk in the initiation and maintenance of spermatogenesis.
The hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) is a unique brain region maintaining neural stem cells (NCSs) and neurogenesis into adulthood. We used multiphoton imaging to visualize genetically defined progenitor subpopulations in live slices across key stages of mouse DG development, testing decades old static models of DG formation with molecular identification, genetic-lineage tracing, and mutant analyses. We found novel progenitor migrations, timings, dynamic cell-cell interactions, signaling activities, and routes underlie mosaic DG formation. Intermediate progenitors (IPs, Tbr2+) pioneered migrations, supporting and guiding later emigrating NSCs (Sox9+) through multiple transient zones prior to converging at the nascent outer adult niche in a dynamic settling process, generating all prenatal and postnatal granule neurons in defined spatiotemporal order. IPs (Dll1+) extensively targeted contacts to mitotic NSCs (Notch active), revealing a substrate for cell-cell contact support during migrations, a developmental feature maintained in adults. Mouse DG formation shares conserved features of human neocortical expansion.
Colorectal cancer is a major health concern as it ranks third in incidence and second major cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. A leading cause of treatment failure has been attributed to cancer stem cells that can invariably resist existing chemotherapeutic regimens. Notch signaling pathway has been involved in the maintenance of stem cells besides being crucial in cell fate decision and embryonic development. This pathway has also been implicated in several human malignancies including colorectal cancer. We investigated mRNA expression of four Notch receptors (Notch1-4), five ligands (Jag1, Jag2, Dll1, Dll3, and Dll4), and four target genes (Hes1, Hes5, Hey1, and Hey2) using highly specific TaqMan gene expression assays in colorectal adenomas and cancers. Upregulated expression of Notch receptors ranged between 29 and 73% in colorectal cancers and between 11 and 56% in adenomas. Expression of Notch3 and Notch4 receptors was significantly higher in colorectal cancers compared to normal and adenoma tissues. The Jagged and Delta-like ligands were overexpressed between 25 and 52% in colorectal cancers, while in adenomas, it ranged between 0 and 33%. Combining the data for upregulation of receptors and ligands suggests that 86% colorectal cancers and 56% adenomas exhibited overexpression of Notch pathway genes in our cohort. Notch target genes were upregulated between 24 and 33% in colorectal cancers and between 11 and 22% in adenomas. Collating upregulation of Notch receptors and ligands with the target genes showed concordance in 58% colorectal tumors. Additionally, we evaluated expression of Notch receptors, ligands, and target genes with prognosis using the TCGA mRNA expression dataset. Patients overexpressing Notch3, Notch4, and Hey1 had significantly poorer overall survival relative to those having lower levels of these genes. Taken together, Notch signaling components are aberrantly overexpressed in colorectal tumors, and development of therapeutics targeting the Notch pathway may prove to be beneficial in the management of colorectal cancers.
Comment on    Dev Cell. 2020 Mar 23;52(6):731-747.e8.
Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) plays a crucial role in the hypothalamic-pituitary-testis (HPT) axis associated with sheep reproduction. The pituitary plays a connecting role in the HPT axis. However, little is known of their expression pattern and potential roles in the pituitary gland. To explore the potential lncRNAs that regulate the male sheep pituitary development and sexual maturation, we constructed immature and mature sheep pituitary cDNA libraries (three-month-old, TM, and nine-month-old, NM, respectively, n = 3) for lncRNA and mRNA high-throughput sequencing. Firstly, the expression of lncRNA and mRNA were comparatively analyzed. 2417 known lncRNAs and 1256 new lncRNAs were identified. Then, 193 differentially expressed (DE) lncRNAs and 1407 DE mRNAs were found in the pituitary between the two groups. Moreover, mRNA-lncRNA interaction network was constructed according to the target gene prediction of lncRNA and functional enrichment analysis. Five candidate lncRNAs and their targeted genes HSD17B12, DCBLD2, PDPK1, GPX3 and DLL1 that enriched in growth and reproduction related pathways were further filtered. Lastly, the interaction of candidate lncRNA TCONS_00066406 and its targeted gene HSD17B12 were validated in in vitro of sheep pituitary cells. Our study provided a systematic presentation of lncRNAs and mRNAs in male sheep pituitary, which revealed the potential role of lncRNA in male reproduction.
BACKGROUND: In liver cirrhosis, intestinal mucus barrier is rarely studied.AIMS: This study aimed to investigate whether mucus barrier in ileum is altered in cirrhotic rats and its underlying mechanisms.METHODS: Thioacetamide was injected to induce liver cirrhosis in rats. Serum from portal vein blood, and ileum and liver tissues were obtained for further analysis. Goblet cell-like Ls174T cells were cultured for in vitro experiments.RESULTS: The ileal mucus was thin, loose, and porous with small bubbles in cirrhotic rats. mRNA expressions of Muc2 and TFF3 were also down-regulated in cirrhotic rats. Bacteria located near to crypts and LPS were increased in the serum from portal vein in cirrhotic rats. Smaller theca area and few goblet cells were found in cirrhotic rats compared with control. Increased proliferation of ileal epithelia was observed in cirrhotic rats. Notch1, Dll1, and Hes1 expressions were enhanced, and KLF4 expression was suppressed in ileum of cirrhotic rats. In Ls174T cells, EDTA and NICD plasmid induced NICD and Hes1 expression and suppressed KLF4 concomitantly, and mucus expression almost vanished in these cells. NICD plasmid induced more proliferation in Ls174T cells. Oppositely, after DBZ treatment, NICD and Hes1 were inhibited along with augmentation of KLF4 and increased mucous expression in Ls174T cells, while proliferation of the cells was suppressed.CONCLUSIONS: In cirrhotic rats, mucus barrier was impaired. This might be attributed to increased proliferation and decreased differentiation of epithelia, which might be mediated by Notch1-Hes1-KLF4 signaling.
Comment in    Cancer Discov. 2020 May;10(5):OF5.
MicroRNAs (miRs) regulate complex processes, including angiogenesis, by targeting multiple mRNAs. miR-24-3p-3p directly represses eNOS, GATA2, and PAK4 in endothelial cells (ECs), thus inhibiting angiogenesis during development and in the infarcted heart. miR-24-3p is widely expressed in cardiovascular cells, suggesting that it could additionally regulate angiogenesis by acting on vascular mural cells. Here, we have investigated: 1) new miR-24-3p targets; 2) the expression and the function of miR-24-3p in human vascular ECs; 3) the impact of miR-24-3p inhibition in the angiogenesis reparative response to limb ischemia in mice. Using bioinformatics target prediction platforms and 3'-UTR luciferase assays, we newly identified Notch1 and its Delta-like ligand 1 (Dll1) to be directly targeted by miR-24-3p. miR-24-3p was expressed in human ECs and pericytes cultured under normal conditions. Exposure to hypoxia increased miR-24-3p in ECs but not in pericytes. Transfection with a miR-24-3p precursor (pre-miR-24-3p) increased miR-24-3p expression in ECs, reducing the cell survival, proliferation, and angiogenic capacity. Opposite effects were caused by miR-24-3p inhibition. The anti-angiogenic action of miR-24-3p overexpression could be prevented by simultaneous adenovirus (Ad)-mediated delivery of constitutively active Notch intracellular domain (NICD) into cultured ECs. We next demonstrated that reduced Notch signalling contributes to the anti-angiogenic effect of miR-24-3p in vitro. In a mouse unilateral limb ischemia model, local miR-24-3p inhibition (by adenovirus-mediated miR-24-3p decoy delivery) restored endothelial Notch signalling and increased capillary density. However, the new vessels appeared disorganised and twisted, worsening post-ischemic blood perfusion recovery. To better understand the underpinning mechanisms, we widened the search for miR-24-3p target genes, identifying several contributors to vascular morphogenesis, such as several members of the Wingless (Wnt) signalling pathway, β-catenin signalling components, and VE-cadherin, which synergise to regulate angiogenesis, pericytes recruitment to neoformed capillaries, maturation, and stabilization of newly formed vessels. Among those, we next focussed on β-catenin to demonstrate that miR-24-3p inhibition reduces β-catenin expression in hypoxic ECs, which is accompanied by reduced adhesion of pericytes to ECs. In summary, miR-24-3p differentially targets several angiogenesis modulators and contributes to autonomous and non-autonomous EC crosstalk. In ischemic limbs, miR-24-3p inhibition increases the production of dysfunctional microvessels, impairing perfusion. Caution should be observed in therapeutic targeting of miR-24-3p.
BACKGROUND/AIM: The prognosis of pancreatic cancer has not improved due to its migratory feature and refractory potential to chemo-resistance with absence of effective diagnosis. Despite continuous efforts, its underlying mechanisms of malignant nature remain ambiguous. The objective of this study was to investigate delta-like 1 (DLL1) as a tumor suppressor in the metastasic ability of human pancreatic cancer cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cellular expression of DLL1 was demonstrated using the GEO public database and western blot analysis. The biological function of DLL1 was validated by biological behavior analysis. Prognosis to DLL1 expression was demonstrated using analysis of the GEO public database.RESULTS: Analysis using the GEO database and western blotting showed higher DLL1 mRNA and protein expression levels in pancreatic cancer compared to those in normal pancreas. DLL1 was uniquely expressed in seven human pancreatic cancer cell lines compared to human pancreatic duct epithelial H6c7 cells. Ablation of DLL1 expression stimulated migration and invasion by activating Src and p38 phosphorylation, but not viability and chemo-resistance of human pancreatic cancer cells. In addition, expression of DLL1 was correlated with migratory features of pancreatic cancer in vivo. Moreover, high DLL1 expression was associated with a favorable prognosis in pancreatic cancer patients.CONCLUSION: DLL1 is a potent suppressor of pancreatic cancer metastasis. Understanding correlation between expression and function of DLL1 might contribute to our knowledge of the complicated mechanism of pancreatic cancer metastasis.
The purpose of this overview is to increase the awareness of clinicians regarding the genetic causes of holoprosencephaly and to inform genetic counseling of family members. The following are the goals of this overview.GOAL 1: Describe the clinical characteristics of holoprosencephaly.GOAL 2: Review the genetic causes of holoprosencephaly.GOAL 3: Provide an evaluation strategy to identify (when possible) the genetic cause of holoprosencephaly in a proband.GOAL 4: Inform genetic counseling of family members of an individual with holoprosencephaly.
BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an essential role in gene regulators in many biological and molecular phenomena. Unraveling the involvement of miRNA as a key cellular factor during in vitro canine parvovirus (CPV) infection may facilitate the discovery of potential intervention candidates. However, the examination of miRNA expression profiles in CPV in tissue culture systems has not been fully elucidated.METHOD: In the present study, we utilized high-throughput small RNA-seq (sRNA-seq) technology to investigate the altered miRNA profiling in miRNA libraries from uninfected (Control) and CPV-2c infected Crandell Reese Feline Kidney cells.RESULTS: We identified five of known miRNAs (miR-222-5p, miR-365-2-5p, miR-1247-3p, miR-322-5p and miR-361-3p) and three novel miRNAs (Novel 137, Novel 141 and Novel 102) by sRNA-seq with differentially expressed genes in the miRNA repertoire of CPV-infected cells over control. We further predicted the potential target genes of the aforementioned miRNAs using sequence homology algorithms. Notably, the targets of miR-1247-3p exhibited a potential function associated with cellular defense and humoral response to CPV. To extend the probing scheme for gene targets of miR-1247-3p, we explored and performed Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis of its target genes. We discovered 229 putative targets from a total of 38 enriched GO terms. The top over-represented GO enrichment in biological process were lymphocyte activation and differentiation, marginal zone B cell differentiation, negative regulation of cytokine production, negative regulation of programed cell death, and negative regulation of signaling. We next constructed a GO biological process network composed of 28 target genes of miR-1247-3p, of which, some genes, namely BCL6, DLL1, GATA3, IL6, LEF1, LFNG and WNT1 were among the genes with obviously intersected in multiple GO terms.CONCLUSION: The miRNA-1247-3p and its cognate target genes suggested their great potential as novel therapeutic targets or diagnostic biomarkers of CPV or other related viruses.
Comment in    Dev Cell. 2020 Mar 23;52(6):681-682.    N Engl J Med. 2020 Jul 2;383(1):80-82.
Colon cancer side population (SP) cells are a small subset of cancer cells that have cancer stemness capacity and enhanced drug resistance. ABCG2 is a multidrug resistance-related protein in SP cells and has been demonstrated to be regulated by Notch signalling pathway. Recently, microRNAs are reported to play a critical role in SP cell fate. However, their role in ABCG2-mediated drug resistance in colon cancer SP cells remains unclear. In the current study, the different expressions of miR-552, miR-611, miR-34a and miR-5000-3p were compared within SP and non-SP cells, which were separated from human colon cancer cell lines (SW480 and LoVo). We found that miR-34a was significantly down-regulated in SP cells and that overexpressing miR-34a overcame drug resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The luciferase reporter assay indicated that miR-34a negatively regulated DLL1, a ligand of Notch signalling pathway, via binding with 3'-untranslated region of its messenger RNA. In addition, overexpressing miR-34a overcame ABCG2-mediated resistance to 5-FU via DLL1/Notch pathway in vitro, and suppressed tumour growth under 5-FU treatment in vivo. In conclusion, our findings suggest that miR-34a acts as a tumour suppressor via enhancing chemosensitivity to 5-FU in SP cells, which provides a novel therapeutic target in chemotherapy-resistant colon cancer.
Genes of the Notch signaling pathway are expressed in different cell types and organs at different time points during embryonic development and adulthood. The Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1) controls the decision between endocrine and exocrine fates of multipotent progenitors in the developing pancreas, and loss of Dll1 leads to premature endocrine differentiation. However, the role of Delta-Notch signaling in adult tissue homeostasis is not well understood. Here, we describe the spatial expression pattern of Notch pathway components in adult murine pancreatic islets and show that DLL1 and DLL4 are specifically expressed in β-cells, whereas JAGGED1 is expressed in α-cells. We show that mice lacking both DLL1 and DLL4 in adult β-cells display improved glucose tolerance, increased glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, and hyperglucagonemia. In contrast, overexpression of the intracellular domain of DLL1 in adult murine pancreatic β-cells results in impaired glucose tolerance and reduced insulin secretion, both in vitro and in vivo. These results suggest that Notch ligands play specific roles in the adult pancreas and highlight a novel function of the Delta/Notch pathway in β-cell insulin secretion.
How satellite cells and their progenitors balance differentiation and self-renewal to achieve sustainable tissue regeneration is not well understood. A major roadblock to understanding satellite cell fate decisions has been the difficulty of studying this process in vivo. By visualizing expression dynamics of myogenic transcription factors during early regeneration in vivo, we identify the time point at which cells undergo decisions to differentiate or self-renew. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals heterogeneity of satellite cells, including a subpopulation enriched in Notch2 receptor expression, during both muscle homeostasis and regeneration. Furthermore, we reveal that differentiating cells express the Dll1 ligand. Using antagonistic antibodies, we demonstrate that the DLL1 and NOTCH2 signaling pair is required for satellite cell self-renewal. Thus, differentiating cells provide the self-renewing signal during regeneration, enabling proportional regeneration in response to injury while maintaining the satellite cell pool. These findings have implications for therapeutic control of muscle regeneration.
Introduction: This study aimed to elucidate the regulatory role and molecular regulation mechanism of miR-130b gene in the process of invasion and metastasis of hepatocarcinoma, and provide a theoretical basis for seeking of effective prevention and treatment of new targets for hepatocellular carcinoma.Materials and methods: The expression level of miR-130b gene in hepatocarcinoma tissues was determined by qRT-PCR. The biological function and mechanism of miR-130b gene were verified by cell and animal models, and the target gene was verified by double luciferase assay.Results: In the liver cancer tissues of patients with metastasis, the expression level of miR-130b gene was increased, and the difference was significantly significant (p < 0.05). Evaluation of independent risk factors for overall survival showed significant difference (p < 0.01). Up-regulation of miR-130b in MHCC97L- subpopulation cells significantly enhanced the invasion and migration ability, and the difference was statistically significant (p < 0.05). The invasion and migration ability of MHCC97H + subpopulation cells with increased expression of miR-130b was significantly decreased, and the difference was notably significant (p < 0.05). When the expression of miR-130b in MHCC97H + subpopulation cells was inhibited, the expressions of Notch-Dll1 and SOX2, Nanog and E2F3 proteins in transplanted tumor tissues were significantly higher than those in other groups (p < 0.05). When miR-130b in MHCC97L- subpopulation cells was up-regulated, the expressions of Notch-Dll1 and Bcl-2, CCND1, Nanog and MET proteins in transplanted tumor tissues were significantly increased than those in other groups (p < 0.05). The prediction results of bioinformatics data suggest that the target gene of miR-130b may be Notch-Dll1 gene. The experiment of luciferase reporter gene confirmed that miR-130b gene can be inhibited and contains fluorescent reporter gene with complementary binding site, lost activity.Conclusion: The miR-130b gene can inhibit the protein expression of Notch-Dll1, and it can promote the invasion and metastasis of liver cancer cells.
BACKGROUND: Endometrial cancer is the  sixth most frequent type of cancer among women worldwide. Type  I adenocarcinomas account for 80-85% of endometrial cancer cases and sometimes require more aggressive treatment than the remaining part of this group. Therefore, molecular markers to stratify adenocarcinomas are needed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, we analysed Notch and Wnt signalling in human endometrial cancer cases to evaluate these pathway elements as potential biomarkers for type  I endometrial cancer. Endometrial samples were obtained from 47 women undergoing surgery for stage I-IV endometrial cancer in the National Cancer Institute (Vilnius, Lithuania) in 2015-2016. The expression at the mRNA level of signalling molecules genes (NOTCH1, NOTCH2, NOTCH3, NOTCH4, JAG1, JAG2, DLL1, HES1, AXIN2 and CTNNB1) was analysed by the quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Relative expression of NOTCH1, NOTCH4, HES1 and β-catenin proteins in endometrioid adenocarcinoma was evaluated by the Western blot method.RESULTS: The  expression level of Notch receptors, ligands, and the target gene, as well as CTNNB1 and AXIN2, was reduced in stage I endometrioid adenocarcinoma if compared to the adjacent non-tumour tissue. The expression of all receptors, ligands, and target molecules was reduced in adenocarcinomas of later stages. The statistically significant correlations between transcript amounts of Notch receptors and ligands were found. There was a statistically significant difference in the  gene expression of Notch signalling pathway components between different tumour differentiation grade samples. A positive correlation between mRNA and protein the expression level of NOTCH1, NOTCH4, HES1 was determined in stage I samples.CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of 47 human endometrial cancer samples revealeda reduction in the transcript levels of Notch and Wnt signalling molecule compared to the adjacent non-tumour tissue. These results suggest tumour suppressor function of Notch and Wnt signalling in human endometrial cancer. More detailed research on these signalling pathways should reveal their importance as potential biomarkers.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have the ability to self-renew and induce drug resistance and recurrence in colorectal cancer (CRC). As current chemotherapy doesn't eliminate CSCs completely, there is a need to identify novel agents to target them. We investigated the effects of cucurbitacin B (C-B) or I (C-I), a natural compound that exists in edible plants (bitter melons, cucumbers, pumpkins and zucchini), against CRC. C-B or C-I inhibited proliferation, clonogenicity, induced G2/M cell-cycle arrest and caspase-mediated-apoptosis of CRC cells. C-B or C-I suppressed colonosphere formation and inhibited expression of CD44, DCLK1 and LGR5. These compounds inhibited notch signaling by reducing the expression of Notch 1-4 receptors, their ligands (Jagged 1-2, DLL1,3,4), γ-secretase complex proteins (Presenilin 1, Nicastrin), and downstream target Hes-1. Molecular docking showed that C-B or C-I binds to the ankyrin domain of Notch receptor, which was confirmed using the cellular thermal shift assay. Finally, C-B or C-I inhibited tumor xenograft growth in nude mice and decreased the expression of CSC-markers and notch signaling proteins in tumor tissues. Together, our study suggests that C-B and C-I inhibit colon cancer growth by inhibiting Notch signaling pathway.
BACKGROUND: The authors developed a noncontact low-frequency ultrasound device that delivers high-intensity mechanical force based on phased-array technology. It may aid wound healing because it is likely to be associated with lower risks of infection and heat-induced pain compared with conventional ultrasound methods. The authors hypothesized that the microdeformation it induces accelerates wound epithelialization. Its effects on key wound-healing processes (angiogenesis, collagen accumulation, and angiogenesis-related gene transcription) were also examined.METHODS: Immediately after wounding, bilateral acute wounds in C57BL/6J mice were noncontact low-frequency ultrasound- and sham-stimulated for 1 hour/day for 3 consecutive days (10 Hz/90.6 Pa). Wound closure (epithelialization) was recorded every 2 days as the percentage change in wound area relative to baseline. Wound tissue was procured on days 2, 5, 7, and 14 (five to six per time point) and subjected to histopathology with hematoxylin and eosin and Masson trichrome staining, CD31 immunohistochemistry, and quantitative polymerase-chain reaction analysis.RESULTS: Compared to sham-treated wounds, ultrasound/phased-array-treated wounds exhibited significantly accelerated epithelialization (65 ± 27 percent versus 30 ± 33 percent closure), angiogenesis (4.6 ± 1.7 percent versus 2.2 ± 1.0 percent CD31 area), and collagen deposition (44 ± 14 percent versus 28 ± 13 percent collagen density) on days 5, 2, and 5, respectively (all p < 0.05). The expression of Notch ligand delta-like 1 protein (Dll1) and Notch1, which participate in angiogenesis, was transiently enhanced by treatment on days 2 and 5, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: The authors' noncontact low-frequency ultrasound phased-array device improved the wound-healing rate. It was associated with increased early neovascularization that was followed by high levels of collagen-matrix production and epithelialization. The device may expand the mechanotherapeutic proangiogenesis field, thereby helping stimulate a revolution in infected wound care.
T cells play essential roles in antitumor therapy. Via gene engineering technique to enhance tumor-antigen specificity, patient peripheral blood-derived T cells (PBT) show encouraging clinical outcomes in treating certain blood malignancies. However, the high costs, functionality exhaustion, and disease-condition-dependent availability of PBT prompt the attempts of exploring alternative T cell sources. Theoretically, induced T cells from pluripotent stem cells (PSC) are ideal candidates that integrate plenty of advantages that primary T cells lack, including unlimited off-the-shelf cell source and precision gene editing feasibility. However, researchers are still struggling with developing a straightforward protocol to induce functional and immunocompetent human T cells from PSC. Based on stromal cell-expressing or biomaterial-presenting Notch ligands DLL1 or DLL4, natural and induced blood progenitors can differentiate further toward T lineage commitment. However, none of the reported T induction protocols has yet translated into any clinical application, signaling the existence of numerous technical barriers for regenerating T cells functionally matching their natural PBT counterparts. Alternatively, new approaches have been developed to repopulate induced T lymphopoiesis via in vivo reprogramming or transplanting induced T cell precursors. Here, we review the most recent progress in the T cell regeneration field, and the remaining challenges dragging their clinical applications.
Delta-like (Dll) 1 and Dll4 differently function as Notch ligands in a context-dependent manner. As these ligands share structural properties, the molecular basis for their functional difference is poorly understood. Here, we investigated the superiority of Dll4 over Dll1 with respect to induction of T cell development using a domain-swapping approach in mice. The DOS motif, shared by Notch ligands-except Dll4-contributes to enhancing the activity of Dll for signal transduction. The module at the N-terminus of Notch ligand (MNNL) of Dll4 is inherently advantageous over Dll1. Molecular dynamic simulation revealed that the loop structure in MNNL domain of Dll1 contains unique proline residues with limited range of motion. The Dll4 mutant with Dll1-derived proline residues showed reduced activity. These results suggest that the loop structure-present within the MNNL domain-with a wide range of motion ensures the superiority of Dll4 and uniquely contributes to the triggering of Notch signaling.
During somite segmentation, the expression of clock genes such as Hes7 oscillates synchronously in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM). This synchronous oscillation slows down in the anterior PSM, leading to wave-like propagating patterns from the posterior to anterior PSM. Such dynamic expression depends on Notch signaling and is critical for somite formation. However, it remains to be determined how slowing oscillations in the anterior PSM are controlled, and whether the expression of the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) oscillates on the surface of individual PSM cells, as postulated to be responsible for synchronous oscillation. Here, by using Dll1 fluorescent reporter mice, we performed live-imaging of Dll1 expression in PSM cells and found the oscillatory expression of Dll1 protein on the cell surface regions. Furthermore, a comparison of live-imaging of Dll1 and Hes7 oscillations revealed that the delay from Dll1 peaks to Hes7 peaks increased in the anterior PSM, suggesting that the Hes7 response to Dll1 becomes slower in the anterior PSM. These results raise the possibility that Dll1 protein oscillations on the cell surface regulate synchronous Hes7 oscillations, and that the slower response of Hes7 to Dll1 leads to slower oscillations in the anterior PSM.
NOTCH1, NOTCH2, NOTCH3 and NOTCH4 are transmembrane receptors that transduce juxtacrine signals of the delta‑like canonical Notch ligand (DLL)1, DLL3, DLL4, jagged canonical Notch ligand (JAG)1 and JAG2. Canonical Notch signaling activates the transcription of BMI1 proto‑oncogene polycomb ring finger, cyclin D1, CD44, cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1A, hes family bHLH transcription factor 1, hes related family bHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1, MYC, NOTCH3, RE1 silencing transcription factor and transcription factor 7 in a cellular context‑dependent manner, while non‑canonical Notch signaling activates NF‑κB and Rac family small GTPase 1. Notch signaling is aberrantly activated in breast cancer, non‑small‑cell lung cancer and hematological malignancies, such as T‑cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and diffuse large B‑cell lymphoma. However, Notch signaling is inactivated in small‑cell lung cancer and squamous cell carcinomas. Loss‑of‑function NOTCH1 mutations are early events during esophageal tumorigenesis, whereas gain‑of‑function NOTCH1 mutations are late events during T‑cell leukemogenesis and B‑cell lymphomagenesis. Notch signaling cascades crosstalk with fibroblast growth factor and WNT signaling cascades in the tumor microenvironment to maintain cancer stem cells and remodel the tumor microenvironment. The Notch signaling network exerts oncogenic and tumor‑suppressive effects in a cancer stage‑ or (sub)type‑dependent manner. Small‑molecule γ‑secretase inhibitors (AL101, MRK‑560, nirogacestat and others) and antibody‑based biologics targeting Notch ligands or receptors [ABT‑165, AMG 119, rovalpituzumab tesirine (Rova‑T) and others] have been developed as investigational drugs. The DLL3‑targeting antibody‑drug conjugate (ADC) Rova‑T, and DLL3‑targeting chimeric antigen receptor‑modified T cells (CAR‑Ts), AMG 119, are promising anti‑cancer therapeutics, as are other ADCs or CAR‑Ts targeting tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 17, CD19, CD22, CD30, CD79B, CD205, Claudin 18.2, fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR)2, FGFR3, receptor‑type tyrosine‑protein kinase FLT3, HER2, hepatocyte growth factor receptor, NECTIN4, inactive tyrosine‑protein kinase 7, inactive tyrosine‑protein kinase transmembrane receptor ROR1 and tumor‑associated calcium signal transducer 2. ADCs and CAR‑Ts could alter the therapeutic framework for refractory cancers, especially diffuse‑type gastric cancer, ovarian cancer and pancreatic cancer with peritoneal dissemination. Phase III clinical trials of Rova‑T for patients with small‑cell lung cancer and a phase III clinical trial of nirogacestat for patients with desmoid tumors are ongoing. Integration of human intelligence, cognitive computing and explainable artificial intelligence is necessary to construct a Notch‑related knowledge‑base and optimize Notch‑targeted therapy for patients with cancer.
Notch signaling regulates the maintenance of neural stem/progenitor cells by cell-cell interactions. The components of Notch signaling exhibit dynamic expression. Notch signaling effector Hes1 and the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) are expressed in an oscillatory manner in neural stem/progenitor cells. Because the period of the oscillatory expression of these genes is very short (2 h), it is difficult to monitor their cyclic expression. To examine such rapid changes in the gene expression or protein dynamics, fast response reporters are required. Because of its fast maturation kinetics and high sensitivity, the bioluminescence reporter luciferase is suitable to monitor rapid gene expression changes in living cells. We used a destabilized luciferase reporter for monitoring the promoter activity and a luciferase-fused reporter for visualization of protein dynamics at single cell resolution. These bioluminescence reporters show rapid turnover and generate very weak signals; therefore, we have developed a highly sensitive bioluminescence imaging system to detect such faint signals. These methods enable us to monitor various gene expression dynamics in living cells and tissues, which are important information to help understand the actual cellular states.
Schizophrenia is a neurodevelopmental disease with a mixed genetic and environmental aetiology. Impaired adult hippocampal neurogenesis was suggested both as a pathophysiological mechanism and as a target for therapy. In the present study, we utilized intracerebroventricular transplantation of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) as a means to enhance hippocampal neurogenesis in the ketamine-induced neurodevelopmental murine model for schizophrenia. Syngeneic MSC have successfully engrafted and survived for up to 3 months following transplantation. Improvement in social novelty preference and prepulse inhibition was noted after transplantation. In parallel to behavioural improvement, increased hippocampal neurogenesis as reflected in the numbers of doublecortin expressing neurons in the dentate gyrus and gene expression was noted both 2 weeks following transplantation as well as 3 months later compared with nontreated animals. An independent aging effect was observed for both behaviour and neurogenesis, which was attenuated by MSC treatment. As opposed to MSC treatment, short-term treatment with clozapine was efficient only during treatment and diminished 3 months later. Interestingly, while shortly after transplantation (2 weeks) behavioural improvement was correlated mainly to FGF2 gene expression, 3 months later it was mainly correlated to the expression of the notch ligand DLL1. This suggests that long-term effect during ageing may depend on neural stem cell self-renewal. We conclude that a single intracerebroventricular injection of bone marrow-derived MSC can suffice for long-term reversal of changes in adult hippocampal neurogenesis and improve schizophrenia-like behavioural phenotype inflicted by developmental exposure to ketamine in mice.
Osteogenic differentiation is a tightly regulated process realized by progenitor cell osteoblasts. Notch signaling pathway plays a critical role in skeletal development and bone remodeling. Controversial data exist regarding the role of Notch activation in promoting or preventing osteogenic differentiation. This study aims to investigate the effect of several Notch components and their dosage on osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells of adipose tissue. Osteogenic differentiation was induced in the presence of either of Notch components (NICD, Jag1, Dll1, Dll4) dosed by lentiviral transduction. We show that osteogenic differentiation was increased by NICD and Jag1 transduction in a dose-dependent manner; however, a high dosage of both NICD and Jag1 decreased the efficiency of osteogenic differentiation. NICD dose-dependently increased activity of the CSL luciferase reporter but a high dosage of NICD caused a decrease in the activity of the reporter. A high dosage of both Notch components NICD and Jag1 induced apoptosis. In co-culture experiments where only half of the cells were transduced with either NICD or Jag1, only NICD increased osteogenic differentiation according to the dosage, while Jag1-transduced cells differentiated almost equally independently on dosage. In conclusion, activation of Notch promotes osteogenic differentiation in a tissue-specific dose-dependent manner; both NICD and Jag1 are able to increase osteogenic potential but at moderate doses only and a high dosage of Notch activation is detrimental to osteogenic differentiation. This result might be especially important when considering possibilities of using Notch activation to promote osteogenesis in clinical applications to bone repair.
The generation and expansion of functional T cells in vitro can lead to a broad range of clinical applications. One such use is for the treatment of patients with advanced cancer. Adoptive T cell transfer (ACT) of highly enriched tumor antigen-specific T cells has been shown to cause durable regression of metastatic cancer in some patients. However, during expansion, these cells may become exhausted or senescent, limiting their effector function and persistence in vivo. Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) technology may overcome these obstacles by leading to in vitro generation of large numbers of less differentiated tumor antigen-specific T cells. Human iPSC (hiPSC) have the capacity to differentiate into any type of somatic cell, including lymphocytes, which retain the original T cell receptor (TCR) genomic rearrangement when a T cell is used as a starting cell. Therefore, reprogramming of human tumor antigen-specific T cells to hiPSC followed by redifferentiation to T cell lineage has the potential to produce rejuvenated tumor antigen-specific T cells. Described here is a method for generating tumor antigen-specific CD8αβ+ single positive (SP) T cells from hiPSC using OP9/DLL1 co-culture system. This method is a powerful tool for in vitro T cell lineage generation and will facilitate the development of in vitro derived T cells for use in regenerative medicine and cell-based therapies.
Author information:(1)Xinjiang Institute of Pediatrics, People's Hospital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Urumqi 830001, China. liqiqi521@sina.com.
Notch signaling regulates cell fate selection during development in multiple organs including the lung. Previous studies on the role of Notch in the lung focused mostly on Notch pathway core components or receptor-specific functions. It is unclear, however, how Jagged or Delta-like ligands collectively or individually (Jag1, Jag2, Dll1, Dll4) influence differentiation of airway epithelial progenitors. Using mouse genetic models we show major differences in Jag and Dll in regulation and establishment of cell fate. Jag ligands had a major impact in balancing distinct cell populations in conducting airways, but had no role in the establishment of domains and cellular abundance in the neuroendocrine (NE) microenvironment. Surprisingly, Dll ligands were crucial in restricting cell fate and size of NE bodies and showed an overlapping role with Jag in differentiation of NE-associated secretory (club) cells. These mechanisms may potentially play a role in human conditions that result in aberrant NE differentiation, including NE hyperplasias and cancer.
Terminal microdeletions of the long arm of chromosome 6 are associated with a phenotype that includes multiple brain malformations, intellectual disability, and epilepsy. A 1.7-Mb region has been proposed to contain a gene responsible for the brain anomalies. Here, we present the case of a 12-year-old girl with multiple brain alterations and moderate intellectual disability with a 18-kb deletion in chromosome 6q27, which is smaller than the microdeletions previously described by microarray analysis. We refined the smallest region of overlap possibly associated with the phenotype of brain malformations and intellectual disability to a segment of 325 kb, comprising the DLL1, PSMB1, TBP, and PDCD2 genes since these genes were structurally and/or functionally lost in the smaller deletions described to date. We hypothesize that DLL1 is responsible for brain malformations and possibly interacts with other adjacent genes. The TBP gene encodes a transcription factor which is potentially related to cognitive development. TBP is linked to PSMB1 and PDCD2 in a conserved manner among mammals, suggesting a potential interaction between these genes. In conclusion, the 6q27 microdeletion is a complex syndrome with variable expressivity of brain malformations and intellectual disability phenotypes which are possibly triggered by the 4 genes described and adjacent genes susceptible to gene regulation changes.
Galectin-3 (Gal-3) controls intercellular and cell-extracellular matrix interactions during immunological responses. In chronic inflammation, Gal-3 is associated with fibrotic events, regulates B cell differentiation and delays lupus progression. Gal-3 deficient mice (Lgals3-/-) have intense germinal center formation and atypical plasma cell generation correlated to high levels IgG, IgE, and IgA. Here, we used pristane (2,6,10,14-tetramethylpentadecane) to induce lupus-like syndrome in Lgals3-/- and Lgals3+/+ BALB/c mice. Mesentery and peritoneal cells were monitored because promptly react to pristane injected in the peritoneal cavity. For the first time, mesenteric tissues have been associated to the pathogenesis of experimental lupus-like syndrome. In Lgals3+/+ pristane-induced mice, mesentery was hallmarked by intense fibrogranulomatous reaction restricted to submesothelial regions and organized niches containing macrophages and B lymphocytes and plasma cells. In contrast, Lgals3-/- pristane-treated mice had diffuse mesenteric fibrosis affecting submesothelium and peripheral tissues, atypical M1/M2 macrophage polarization and significant DLL1+ cells expansion, suggesting possible involvement of Notch/Delta pathways in the disease. Early inflammatory reaction to pristane was characterized by significant disturbances on monocyte recruitment, macrophage differentiation and dendritic cell (DC) responses in the peritoneal cavity of pristane-induced Lgals3-/- mice. A correlative analysis showed that mesenteric damages in the absence of Gal-3 were directly associated with severe portal inflammation and hepatitis. In conclusion, it has suggested that Gal-3 orchestrates histological organization in the mesentery and prevents lupoid hepatitis in experimental lupus-like syndrome by controlling macrophage polarization, Notch signaling pathways and DC differentiation in mesenteric structures.
As a highly evolutionarily conserved signaling pathway, Notch widely participates in cell-fate decisions and the development of various tissues and organs. In male reproduction, research on the Notch signaling pathway has mainly concentrated on germ cells and Sertoli cells. Leydig cells are the primary producers of testosterone and play important roles in spermatogenesis and maintaining secondary sexual characteristics. In this study, we used TM3 cells, a murine adult Leydig cell line, to investigate the expression profiles of Notch receptors and ligands and observe the effect of Notch signaling on the proliferation of TM3 cells. We found that Notch 1-3 and the ligands Dll-1 and Dll-4 were expressed in TM3 cells, Notch 1-3 and the ligand Dll-1 were expressed in testis interstitial Leydig cells, and Notch signaling inhibition suppressed the proliferation of TM3 cells and induced G0/G1 arrest. Inhibition of Notch signaling increased the expression of p21Waf1/Cip1 and p27. Overall, our results suggest that Notch inhibition suppresses the proliferation of TM3 cells and P21Waf1/Cip1 , and p27 may contribute to this process.
This article describes a screening platform to identify compounds that affect human embryonic vascular development. The procedure comprises the generation of human embryonic-like endothelial cells (ECs) from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) and subsequent maturation under arterial flow conditions; the use of these cells for the high-throughput screening of small molecules that specifically inhibit the survival of embryonic-like ECs; the confirmation of the hits in embryonic-like ECs cultured under flow shear stress; and final validation in mouse embryonic ECs. The embryonic-like ECs express embryonic genes including DLL1, EPHB2, LYN, TEK, ID1, NRP2, CAST, FLT1, IGF1, DKK3, NIN, LEF1, and SORBS3. The entire screening procedure (without the validation step) can be completed within 1 month. This platform is an alternative/complement to standard animal protocols for assessing the effects of chemicals on embryonic vascular development. © 2019 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
BACKGROUND: Notch signaling pathway is involved in contact-dependent communication between the cells of seminiferous epithelium, and its proper activity is important for undisturbed spermatogenesis.OBJECTIVES: The aim was to assess the effect of Notch pathway inhibition on the expression of nuclear (AR) and membrane (ZIP9) androgen receptors and androgen-regulated genes, claudin-5 and claudin-11, in TM4 mouse Sertoli cell line.MATERIALS AND METHODS: DAPT (γ-secretase inhibitor) treatment and recombination signal binding protein silencing were employed to reduce Notch signaling, whereas immobilized ligands were used to activate Notch pathway in TM4 cells. To reveal specific effect of each androgen receptor, AR or ZIP9 silencing was performed.RESULTS: Notch pathway inhibition increased the expression of AR and ZIP9 mRNA and proteins (p < 0.01; p < 0.05) in TM4 cells, whereas incubation with Notch ligands, rDLL1 or rJAG1, reduced AR (p < 0.01; p < 0.001) and ZIP9 (p < 0.05; p < 0.01) expressions, respectively. Testosterone enhanced the expression of both receptors (p < 0.05; p < 0.01). Androgen-regulated claudin-5 and claudin-11 (p < 0.01; p < 0.001) and cAMP (p < 0.001) were elevated in Notch-inhibited cells, while activation of Notch signaling by DLL1 or JAG1 reduced claudin-11 or claudin-5 level (p < 0.01; p < 0.001), respectively.DISCUSSION: Our findings indicate opposite effect of Notch and androgen signaling on the expression of androgen receptors in TM4 cells. We demonstrated that AR expression is regulated by DLL1-mediated Notch signaling, whereas JAG1 is involved in the regulation of ZIP9. The expression of both claudins and cAMP production is under inhibitory influence of Notch pathway. The effects of Notch signaling on claudin-5 and claudin-11 expression are mediated by ZIP9 and AR, respectively.CONCLUSION: Notch signaling may be considered as an important pathway controlling Sertoli cell physiology, and its alterations may contribute to disturbed response of Sertoli cells to androgens.
The lumen of the fallopian tube (FT) is lined with columnar epithelium composed of secretory and ciliated cells, both of which are important for reproduction. However, the molecular mechanism regulating cell fate remains controversial. In this study, we established a primary culture system using porcine fallopian tube epithelial cells (FTECs) to study the differentiation mechanism. We found that estrogen promoted the differentiation of multi-ciliated cells (MCCs) through estrogen receptor β, following the reduction of DLL1, a ligand of Notch. Meanwhile, epidermal growth factor (EGF), a regulator of epithelial homeostasis and differentiation, suppressed ciliogenesis by the activation of Notch signaling. However, the estrogen pathway did not affect the activation of the EGF pathway. Taken together, the differentiation of MMCs in FT depends on the balance of EGF and estrogen signaling, either of which inhibits or stimulates the Notch signaling pathway respectively.
Background: Sepsis is a life-threatening syndrome, resulting from a dysbalanced host response to infection. However, especially the early, pro-inflammatory immune response in sepsis is similar to other inflammatory conditions without infectious cause, e.g., trauma or surgery. This aspect challenges the value of current biomarkers for diagnosis, as these are often broadly induced. We earlier identified Delta-like Protein 1 (DLL1), a canonical Notch ligand, to be released from monocytes upon bacterial stimulation. Considering the importance of monocytes in the pathophysiology of sepsis, we hypothesized that this mechanism might occur also in the clinical setting and DLL1 might serve as a biomarker of life-threatening bacterial infection. Methods: We combined samples from three different studies, including subgroups of patients with sepsis (n = 80), surgical patients (n = 50), trauma patients (n = 36), as well as healthy controls (n = 50). We assessed plasma concentrations of DLL1 using ELISA. We performed Area-under-receiver-operator-curve (AUROC) analysis to evaluate the diagnostic performance of DLL1 compared to leucocytes, C-reactive protein (CRP), and procalcitonin (PCT). Results: Plasma concentrations of DLL1 were strongly elevated already at sepsis onset and maintained elevated until day 7. In contrast, neither surgical patients nor patients after severe trauma presented with elevated levels, while conventional biomarkers of inflammation (e.g., leucocytes and CRP), responded. AUROC analysis revealed a cut-off of 30 ng/ml associated with the best diagnostic performance, yielding a superior accuracy of 91% for DLL1, compared to 75, 79, and 81% for CRP, leucocytes, and PCT. Conclusion: DLL1 is a novel host-derived biomarker for the diagnosis of sepsis with a better performance compared to established ones, most likely due to its high robustness in non-infectious inflammatory responses. Clinical Trial Registration: POCSEP-Trial DRKS00008090; MIRSI DRKS00005463; SPRINT DRKS00010991.
Notch signaling is an established developmental pathway for brain morphogenesis. Given that Delta-like 1 (DLL1) is a ligand for the Notch receptor and that a few individuals with developmental delay, intellectual disability, and brain malformations have microdeletions encompassing DLL1, we hypothesized that insufficiency of DLL1 causes a human neurodevelopmental disorder. We performed exome sequencing in individuals with neurodevelopmental disorders. The cohort was identified using known Matchmaker Exchange nodes such as GeneMatcher. This method identified 15 individuals from 12 unrelated families with heterozygous pathogenic DLL1 variants (nonsense, missense, splice site, and one whole gene deletion). The most common features in our cohort were intellectual disability, autism spectrum disorder, seizures, variable brain malformations, muscular hypotonia, and scoliosis. We did not identify an obvious genotype-phenotype correlation. Analysis of one splice site variant showed an in-frame insertion of 12 bp. In conclusion, heterozygous DLL1 pathogenic variants cause a variable neurodevelopmental phenotype and multi-systemic features. The clinical and molecular data support haploinsufficiency as a mechanism for the pathogenesis of this DLL1-related disorder and affirm the importance of DLL1 in human brain development.
Epidermal homeostasis depends on a balance between self-renewal of stem cells and terminal differentiation of their progeny. Notch signalling is known to play a role in epidermal  stem cell patterning and differentiation. However, the molecular mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here we demonstrate dynamic patterns of Notch ligand and receptor expression in cultured human epidermis. Notch2 and 3 act together to promote differentiation, while Notch1 decreases stem cell proliferation. The Notch ligand Jagged1 triggers differentiation when presented on an adhesive substrate or on polystyrene beads and over-rides the differentiation inhibitory effect of cell spreading. In contrast, Delta-like 1 (Dll1) overexpression abrogates the pro-differentiation effect of Jagged1 in a cell autonomous fashion. We conclude that Dll1 expression by stem cells not only stimulates differentiation of neighbouring cells in trans, but also inhibits differentiation cell autonomously. These results highlight the distinct roles of different Notch receptors and ligands in controlling epidermal homeostasis.
Tendon and bone are attached by a transitional connective tissue that is morphologically graded from tendinous to osseous and develops from bipotent progenitors that co-express scleraxis (Scx) and Sox9 (Scx+/Sox9+). Scx+/Sox9+ progenitors have the potential to differentiate into either tenocytes or chondrocytes, yet the developmental mechanism that spatially resolves their bipotency at the tendon-bone interface during embryogenesis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that development of Scx+/Sox9+ progenitors within the mammalian lower jaw requires FGF signaling. We find that loss of Fgfr2 in the mouse tendon-bone interface reduces Scx expression in Scx+/Sox9+ progenitors and induces their biased differentiation into Sox9+ chondrocytes. This expansion of Sox9+ chondrocytes, which is concomitant with decreased Notch2-Dll1 signaling, prevents formation of a mixed population of chondrocytes and tenocytes, and instead results in ectopic endochondral bone at tendon-bone attachment units. Our work shows that FGF signaling directs zonal patterning at the boundary between tendon and bone by regulating cell fate decisions through a mechanism that employs Notch signaling.
During angiogenesis, single endothelial cells (EC) specialize into tip cells that guide vessel sprouting towards growth factor gradients and instruct the adjacent vessel stalk. The balance between tip and stalk cells is regulated by endothelial Notch signalling through the expression of Notch ligand Delta-like 4 (Dll4) in tip cells, which suppresses a tip cell fate in adjacent stalk cells. Here we show, using genetic reporter and conditional deletion strategies, that myeloid cells regulate tip cell numbers and Dll4 expression via the Notch ligand Dll1 during vascular development in the retina. Dll1 is selectively expressed by a subpopulation of retinal myeloid cells, which progressively localizes to the sprouting vascular network. Conditional, myeloid-specific deletion of Dll1 impairs endothelial Dll4 tip-stalk gradient resulting in an increase of endothelial tip cells and EC filopodia, accompanied by an increase in vascular density and branching. In vitro, co-culture of human EC with monocyte-derived macrophages induced Dll1 upregulation in macrophages and Dll4 upregulation and an endothelial tip cell signature in EC. Furthermore, culturing human EC on recombinant DLL1 induced endothelial Dll4 expression and a tip cell program, indicating that changes are Dll1-dependent. Thus, myeloid cells regulate tip cell fate and angiogenesis through expression of Notch ligand Dll1.
Skeletal development throughout the embryonic and postnatal phases is a dynamic process, based on bone remodeling and the balance between the activities of osteoclasts and osteoblasts modulating skeletal homeostasis. The Notch signaling pathway is a regulator of several developmental processes, and plays a crucial role in the development of the human skeleton by regulating the proliferation and differentiation of skeletal cells. The Delta Like-1 (DLL1) gene plays an important role in Notch signaling. We propose that an identified alteration in DLL1 protein may affect the downstream signaling. In this article, we present for the first time two siblings with a mutation in the DLL1 gene, presenting with congenital vertebral malformation. Using variable in silico prediction tools, it was predicted that the variant was responsible for the development of disease. Quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the Notch signaling pathway, using samples obtained from patients, showed a significant alteration in the expression of various related genes. Specifically, the expression of neurogenic locus notch homolog protein 1, SNW domain-containing protein 1, disintegrin, and metalloproteinase domain-containing proteins 10 and 17, was upregulated. In contrast, the expression of HEY1, HEY2, adenosine deaminase (ADA), and mastermind-like-1 (MAML-1) was downregulated. Furthermore, in a phosphokinase array, four kinases were significantly changed in patients, namely, p27, JANK1/2/3, mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinases 1 and 2, and focal adhesion kinase. Our results suggest an implication of a DLL1 defect related to the Notch signaling pathway, at least in part, in the morphologic abnormality observed in these patients. A limitation of our study was the low number of patients and samples. Further studies in this area are warranted to decipher the link between a DLL1 defect and skeletal abnormality.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), as a class of naturally occurring RNAs, play important roles in cardiac physiology and pathology. There are many miRNAs that show multifarious expression patterns during cardiomyocyte genesis. Here, we focused on the MIR148A family, which is composed of MIR148A, MIR148B and MIR152, and shares the same seed sequences. The expression levels of all MIR148A family members progressively increased during the differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) into cardiomyocytes. The deletion of MIR148A family (MIR148A-TKO) resulted in a decreased proportion of cardiomyocytes after cardiac induction, which was restored by the ectopic expression of MIR148A family members. Transcriptome analyses indicated that the MIR148A family could partially repress paraxial mesodermal differentiation from primitive streak cells. In turn, these miRNAs promoted lateral mesoderm and cardiomyocyte differentiation. Furthermore, the NOTCH ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1) was validated as the target gene of MIR148A family, and knockdown of DLL1 could promote the cardiomyocyte differentiation of MIR148A-TKO hESCs. Thus, our results demonstrate MIR148A family could promote cardiomyocyte differentiation by inhibiting undesired paraxial mesoderm lineage commitment, which improves our understanding on cardiomyocyte differentiation from hESCs.
Defective functionality of thymic epithelial cells (TECs), due to genetic mutations or injuring causes, results in altered T-cell development, leading to immunodeficiency or autoimmunity. These defects cannot be corrected by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), and thymus transplantation has not yet been demonstrated to be fully curative. Here, we provide proof of principle of a novel approach toward thymic regeneration, involving the generation of thymic organoids obtained by seeding gene-modified postnatal murine TECs into three-dimensional (3D) collagen type I scaffolds mimicking the thymic ultrastructure. To this end, freshly isolated TECs were transduced with a lentiviral vector system, allowing for doxycycline-induced Oct4 expression. Transient Oct4 expression promoted TECs expansion without drastically changing the cell lineage identity of adult TECs, which retain the expression of important molecules for thymus functionality such as Foxn1, Dll4, Dll1, and AIRE. Oct4-expressing TECs (iOCT4 TEC) were able to grow into 3D collagen type I scaffolds both in vitro and in vivo, demonstrating that the collagen structure reproduced a 3D environment similar to the thymic extracellular matrix, perfectly recognized by TECs. In vivo results showed that thymic organoids transplanted subcutaneously in athymic nude mice were vascularized but failed to support thymopoiesis because of their limited in vivo persistence. These findings provide evidence that gene modification, in combination with the usage of 3D biomimetic scaffolds, may represent a novel approach allowing the use of postnatal TECs for thymic regeneration. Stem Cells Translational Medicine 2019;8:1107-1122.
These findings provide further evidence that DLL1 exerts carcinogenic effects in BC cells. The dissimilar effects of DLL1 downregulation observed amongst MCF-7, BT474, and MDA-MB-231 cells is likely due to their distinctive genetic and biologic characteristics, suggesting that DLL1 contributes to BC through various mechanisms.
Comment in    Nat Cell Biol. 2019 Jun;21(6):665-667.
Erratum in    Nature. 2019 Aug;572(7767):E6.
Erratum in    J Immunother Cancer. 2019 May 7;7(1):124.
The transcription factor Pax6 controls multiple aspects of forebrain development. Conditional deletion of Pax6 in embryonic mouse cortex causes increased proliferation of cortical progenitor cells and a concomitant decrease in neural differentiation. Notch signaling regulates the balance between proliferation and differentiation of cortical progenitor cells, suggesting a possible connection between Pax6 and Notch signaling. We investigated how expression of the Notch ligand delta-like 1 (Dll1) is altered by loss of Pax6. Acute cortex-specific deletion of Pax6 resulted in a widespread decrease in the density of Dll1+ cells at embryonic days 12.5 and 13.5 (E12.5 and E13.5). In constitutive loss-of-function mutants, decreases in the densities of Dll1+ cells were more limited both spatially and temporally. Controlled over-expression of Pax6 had no detectable effect on Dll1 expression. The proneural transcription factor Neurog2 is a target of Pax6 that can activate Dll1 expression and we found clear co-expression of Neurog2 and Dll1 in radial glial progenitors, suggesting that Pax6's effect on Dll1 could be mediated through Neurog2. However, we found no change in Dll1+ cells in Neurog2 -/- cortex suggesting either that Neurog2 is not directly involved, or that its loss of function in embryonic cortex can be compensated for.
Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved pathway that regulates important biological processes, such as cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration, self-renewal, and differentiation. In mammals, Notch signaling is composed of four receptors (Notch1⁻4) and five ligands (Dll1-3⁻4, Jagged1⁻2) that mainly contribute to the development and maintenance of the central nervous system (CNS). Neural stem cells (NSCs) are the starting point for neurogenesis and other neurological functions, representing an essential aspect for the homeostasis of the CNS. Therefore, genetic and functional alterations to NSCs can lead to the development of brain tumors, including glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). GBM remains an incurable disease, and the reason for the failure of current therapies and tumor relapse is the presence of a small subpopulation of tumor cells known as glioma stem cells (GSCs), characterized by their stem cell-like properties and aggressive phenotype. Growing evidence reveals that Notch signaling is highly active in GSCs, where it suppresses differentiation and maintains stem-like properties, contributing to GBM tumorigenesis and conventional-treatment resistance. In this review, we try to give a comprehensive view of the contribution of Notch signaling to GBM and its possible implication as a target for new therapeutic approaches.
Mammalian microRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in modulating the response of immune cells to stimuli. Cannabinoids are known to exert beneficial actions such as neuroprotection and immunosuppressive activities. However, the underlying mechanisms which contribute to these effects are not fully understood. We previously reported that the psychoactive cannabinoid Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and the non-psychoactive cannabidiol (CBD) differ in their anti-inflammatory signaling pathways. Using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to stimulate BV-2 microglial cells, we examined the role of cannabinoids on the expression of miRNAs. Expression was analyzed by performing deep sequencing, followed by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis to describe networks and intracellular pathways. miRNA sequencing analysis revealed that 31 miRNAs were differentially modulated by LPS and by cannabinoids treatments. In addition, we found that at the concentration tested, CBD has a greater effect than THC on the expression of most of the studied miRNAs. The results clearly link the effects of both LPS and cannabinoids to inflammatory signaling pathways. LPS upregulated the expression of pro-inflammatory miRNAs associated to Toll-like receptor (TLR) and NF-κB signaling, including miR-21, miR-146a and miR-155, whereas CBD inhibited LPS-stimulated expression of miR-146a and miR-155. In addition, CBD upregulated miR-34a, known to be involved in several pathways including Rb/E2f cell cycle and Notch-Dll1 signaling. Our results show that both CBD and THC reduced the LPS-upregulated Notch ligand Dll1 expression. MiR-155 and miR-34a are considered to be redox sensitive miRNAs, which regulate Nrf2-driven gene expression. Accordingly, we found that Nrf2-mediated expression of redox-dependent genes defines a Mox-like phenotype in CBD treated BV-2 cells. In summary, we have identified a specific repertoire of miRNAs that are regulated by cannabinoids, in resting (surveillant) and in LPS-activated microglia. The modulated miRNAs and their target genes are controlled by TLR, Nrf2 and Notch cross-talk signaling and are involved in immune response, cell cycle regulation as well as cellular stress and redox homeostasis.
The present study evaluates role of Notch1 signaling in the regulation of T cell immunity in leprosy. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from leprosy patients and healthy controls were activated with Mycobacterium leprae antigens along with activation of Notch1 signaling pathway and then lymphoproliferation was analyzed by lymphocytes transformation test and the expression of Notch1 and its ligands DLL1, Jagged1 and Jagged 2, T cell activation marker and Th1-Th2 cytokines on Th cells in PBMCs of study subjects were analyzed by flow cytometry. Further, these parameters were also analyzed after inhibition of Notch1 signaling pathway. Higher percentage of Notch1expressing Th cells were noted in TT/BT cases and higher percentage of DLL1 expressing Th cells in TT/BT and BL/LL cases. M. leprae antigens were found to induce the expression of Jagged1 on Th cells. Interestingly activation of Notch1 signaling pathway induced lymphoproliferation in BL/LL cases in response of PGL-1. Activation of Notch1 signaling was also found to induce the expression of T cell activation markers CD25, CD69 and Th1 cytokine IFN-γ in response to M. leprae antigens. Immunomodulation through Notch1 signaling seen in our study could be helpful in augmenting Th1 response in leprosy.
Notch is activated globally in pancreatic progenitors; however, for progenitors to differentiate into endocrine cells, they must escape Notch activation to express Neurogenin-3. Here, we find that the transcription factor nuclear factor I/A (NFIA) promotes endocrine development by regulating Notch ligand Dll1 trafficking. Pancreatic deletion of NFIA leads to cell fate defects, with increased duct and decreased endocrine formation, while ectopic expression promotes endocrine formation in mice and human pancreatic progenitors. NFIA-deficient mice exhibit dysregulation of trafficking-related genes including increased expression of Mib1, which acts to target Dll1 for endocytosis. We find that NFIA binds to the Mib1 promoter, with loss of NFIA leading to an increase in Dll1 internalization and enhanced Notch activation with rescue of the cell fate defects after Mib1 knockdown. This study reveals NFIA as a pro-endocrine factor in the pancreas, acting to repress Mib1, inhibit Dll1 endocytosis and thus promote escape from Notch activation.
Notch signaling pathway is one of the most important pathways to regulate intercellular signal transduction and is crucial in the regulation of bone regeneration. Nephroblastoma overexpressed (NOV or CCN3) serves as a non-canonical secreted ligand of Notch signaling pathway and its role in the process of osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) was undefined. Here we conducted a comprehensive study on this issue. In vivo and in vitro studies have shown that CCN3 significantly inhibited the early and late osteogenic differentiation of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), the expression of osteogenesis-related factors, and the subcutaneous ectopic osteogenesis of MEFs in nude mice. In mechanism studies, we found that CCN3 significantly inhibited the expression of BMP9 and the activation of BMP/Smad and BMP/MAPK signaling pathways. There was also a mutual inhibition between CCN3 and DLL1, one of the classic membrane protein ligands of Notch signaling pathway. Additionally, we further found that Hey1, the target gene shared by BMP and Notch signaling pathways, partially reversed the inhibitory effect of CCN3 on osteoblastic differentiation of MEFs. In summary, our findings suggested that CCN3 significantly inhibited the osteogenic differentiation of MEFs. The inhibitory effect of CCN3 was mainly through the inhibition of BMP signaling and the mutual inhibition with DLL1, so as to inhibit the expression of Hey1, the target gene shared by BMP and Notch signaling pathways.
Aberrant Notch signaling is implicated in several cancers, including breast cancer. However, the mechanistic details of the specific receptors and function of ligand-mediated Notch signaling that promote breast cancer remains elusive. In our studies we show that DLL1, a Notch signaling ligand, is significantly overexpressed in ERα+ luminal breast cancer. Intriguingly, DLL1 overexpression correlates with poor prognosis in ERα+ luminal breast cancer, but not in other subtypes of breast cancer. In addition, this effect is specific to DLL1, as other Notch ligands (DLL3, JAGGED1, and JAGGED2) do not influence the clinical outcome of ERα+ patients. Genetic studies show that DLL1-mediated Notch signaling in breast cancer is important for tumor cell proliferation, angiogenesis, and cancer stem cell function. Consistent with prognostic clinical data, we found the tumor-promoting function of DLL1 is exclusive to ERα+ luminal breast cancer, as loss of DLL1 inhibits both tumor growth and lung metastasis of luminal breast cancer. Importantly, we find that estrogen signaling stabilizes DLL1 protein by preventing its proteasomal and lysososmal degradations. Moreover, estrogen inhibits ubiquitination of DLL1. Together, our results highlight an unexpected and novel subtype-specific function of DLL1 in promoting luminal breast cancer that is regulated by estrogen signaling. Our studies also emphasize the critical role of assessing subtype-specific mechanisms driving tumor growth and metastasis to generate effective subtype-specific therapeutics.
Organ toxicity, including kidney injury, limits the use of cisplatin for the treatment of multiple human cancers. Hence, interventions to alleviate cisplatin-induced nephropathy are of benefit to cancer patients. Recent studies have demonstrated that pharmacological inhibition of the Notch signaling pathway enhances cisplatin efficacy against several cancer cells. However, whether augmentation of the anti-cancer effect of cisplatin by Notch inhibition comes at the cost of increased kidney injury is unclear. We show here that treatment of mice with cisplatin resulted in a significant increase in Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) and Notch1 intracellular domain (N1ICD) protein expression levels in the kidneys. N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT), a γ-secretase inhibitor reversed cisplatin-induced increase in renal N1ICD expression and plasma or urinary levels of predictive biomarkers of acute kidney injury (AKI). DAPT also mitigated cisplatin-induced tubular injury and reduction in glomerular filtration rate. Real-time multiphoton microscopy revealed marked necrosis and peritubular vascular dysfunction in the kidneys of cisplatin-treated mice which were abrogated by DAPT. Cisplatin-induced Dll1/Notch1 signaling was recapitulated in a human proximal tubule epithelial cell line (HK-2). siRNA-mediated Dll1 knockdown and DAPT attenuated cisplatin-induced Notch1 cleavage and cytotoxicity in HK-2 cells. These data suggest that Dll1-mediated Notch1 signaling contributes to cisplatin-induced AKI. Hence, the Notch signaling pathway could be a potential therapeutic target to alleviate renal complications associated with cisplatin chemotherapy.
BACKGROUND: The Notch signaling pathway plays an important role in regulating human immune function, but the relationship between allergic rhinitis (AR) and Notch signaling remains unclear.OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of Notch signaling in the pathogenesis of AR and its regulation on Foxp3-Treg cells.METHOD: The sera of 100 patients with AR and 50 controls were collected to assess the differences in Notch1, Jagged1, and DLL1 (Delta-like 1) expression. Experimental mice were divided into normal control, AR, Notch inhibitor, and dexamethasone groups. Allergic symptoms, total IgE levels, and the proportion of Treg cells in the peripheral blood were detected. Notch1, Jagged1, NICD (Notch intracellular domain, also known as ICN), and Foxp3 expression and Th1/Th2/Th17-related cytokines in the spleen were detected and compared between each group of mice.RESULTS: Compared with the control group, the expression of Notch1 and Jagged1 in patients with AR was significantly elevated (p < 0.05). The expression of Notch1 and Jagged1 in patients with severe AR was higher than that observed in the mild to moderate AR patients and positively correlated with the levels of allergen sIgE (p < 0.05). The animal experiments revealed that compared with the normal control group, the expression of Notch1, Jagged1, and NICD in the AR group was increased, Foxp3 expression was decreased, and the proportion of Treg cells was decreased (p < 0.05). Compared with the AR group, allergic symptoms and total serum IgE levels and the expression of Notch1, Jagged1, and NICD were significantly decreased in the Notch inhibited group, whereas the expression of Foxp3 and the proportion of Treg cells were increased significantly (p < 0.05). The Th2-type immune responses were also enhanced and Th1-type immune responses decreased in the AR group, but the Th1/Th2 imbalance was reversed in the Notch inhibited group.CONCLUSION: Notch signaling downregulates Foxp3 expression and inhibits the differentiation of Treg cells to promote the development of AR. Blocking Notch signaling may be a potential treatment for AR.
The control of nonlinear dynamical systems is always a notable problem in science. According to control theory, suitable inputs for a controllable dynamical system are critical. Previous studies have shown some principles to determine control nodes and design control function. In this work, we propose a new control strategy of nonlinear systems by constructing impulsive control functions, i.e., we can realize the transition from an undesired state to a desired one by controlling appropriately chosen nodes in a discrete manner. In order to demonstrate the effectiveness of the strategy, we apply it to two biological networks: the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) network and the Notch1-Dll1-Jag1 signaling pathway. The strategy can not only be used to guide pharmacological design in a more feasible form but can also be applied into the fields of biological, medical and other multistable dynamical systems.
Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) causes heart failure after heart transplantation (HTx), but its pathogenesis is incompletely understood. Notch signaling, possibly modulated by everolimus (EVR), is essential for processes involved in CAV. We hypothesized that circulating Notch ligands would be dysregulated after HTx. We studied circulating delta-like Notch ligand 1 (DLL1) and periostin (POSTN) and CAV in de novo HTx recipients (n = 70) randomized to standard or EVR-based, calcineurin inhibitor-free immunosuppression and in maintenance HTx recipients (n = 41). Compared to healthy controls, plasma DLL1 and POSTN were elevated in de novo (P < .01; P < .001) and maintenance HTx recipients (P < .001; P < .01). Use of EVR was associated with a treatment effect for DLL1. For de novo HTx recipients, a change in DLL1 correlated with a change in CAV at 1 (P = .021) and 3 years (P = .005). In vitro, activation of T cells increased DLL1 secretion, attenuated by EVR. In vitro data suggest that also endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) could contribute to circulating DLL1. Immunostaining of myocardial specimens showed colocalization of DLL1 with T cells, endothelial cells, and VSMCs. Our findings suggest a role of DLL1 in CAV progression, and that the beneficial effect of EVR on CAV could reflect a suppressive effect on DLL1. Trial registration numbers-SCHEDULE trial: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01266148; NOCTET trial: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00377962.
BACKGROUND Activation of Notch signaling was found to be associated with cancer. Gambogic acid (GA) was reported to be an anti-cancer agent. This study investigated the anti-cancer effect of GA on human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. Involvement of the Notch pathway was also studied. MATERIAL AND METHODS GA at 0, 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 μmol/l was used to incubate A549 and SPC-A1 cells. MTT assay was used to determine the cell viability. TUNEL assay was used to detect the apoptosis. Western blotting was used to evaluate protein expression levels, protein phosphorylation levels, and nuclear translocation levels. RESULTS Notch signaling pathway was activated in NSCLC cells. GA treatment significantly inhibited NSCLC cell viability and increased cell apoptosis. GA treatment significantly decreased the expression levels of DLL1, DLL3, DLL4, Jagged1, Jagged2, Bcl2, and PK3K, inhibited NICD nuclear translocation and Akt phosphorylation, and increased expression level of active caspase3. CONCLUSIONS GA inhibited NSCLC cell viability by inducing apoptosis. Inhibition of the Notch signaling pathway was the mechanism involved in the anti-proliferation effect of GA on NSCLC.
DLL1 and DLL4 are Notch ligands with high structural similarity but context-dependent functional differences. Here, we analyze their functional divergence using cellular co-culture assays, biochemical studies, and in vivo experiments. DLL1 and DLL4 activate NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 differently in cell-based assays and this discriminating potential lies in the region between the N-terminus and EGF repeat three. Mice expressing chimeric ligands indicate that the ectodomains dictate ligand function during somitogenesis, and that during myogenesis even regions C-terminal to EGF3 are interchangeable. Substitution of NOTCH1-interface residues in the MNNL and DSL domains of DLL1 with the corresponding amino acids of DLL4, however, does not disrupt DLL1 function in vivo. Collectively, our data show that DLL4 preferentially activates NOTCH1 over NOTCH2, whereas DLL1 is equally effective in activating NOTCH1 and NOTCH2, establishing that the ectodomains dictate selective ligand function in vivo, and that features outside the known binding interface contribute to their differences.
The complex and multifactorial mechanisms that initiate and sustain the early labor process in the human uterus and cervix are still not well defined. Cervical maturation or ripening is likely to play a key role in preparing for birth. Prostaglandins have many different functions, including the regulation of uterine contractility and structure during pregnancy. The prostaglandin E1 analogue misoprostol is frequently used as a uterotonic and cervical ripening agent. Notch is a transmembrane receptor family responsible for basic functions such as cell survival, cell-cell communication, and differentiation and decidualization in pregnancy. However, our understanding of the effect of Notch signaling on the cervical ripening process is limited. This study was conducted in 20 pregnant women aged at 12 to 20 weeks of gestation undergoing medical abortion for fetal or maternal indications. True-Cut needle biopsies were taken from the anterior cervix 4 hours after oral ingestion of 200-μg misoprostol or before the ingestion of misoprostol in the control group. Cervical expression of Notch receptors and ligands changed during the early phase of prostaglandin-induced preterm labor. Four hours after the administration of misoprostol, it was seen that N1 expression increased in muscle, while DLL1 and J2 expression increased in blood vessels, and N4 expression increased in macrophages. Knowing the mechanisms that initiate preterm birth is the most important step in planning the treatments and actions to prevent premature birth. As a signal that affects and perhaps directs preterm labor, Notch is prone to be an important actor in this process.
During brain development, neural stem cells change their competency to give sequential rise to neurons and glial cells. Expression of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-type cell-fate determination factors Ascl1, Olig2, and Hes1 is oscillatory in neural stem cells. Conversely, sustained expression of these factors mediates cell-fate determination. Optogenetic analyses suggest that oscillatory expression regulates maintenance and proliferation of neural stem cells, and that sustained expression induces cell-fate determination. Expression of the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1), which is controlled by Hes1 and Ascl1, is also oscillatory in neural stem cells. Mathematical modeling showed that if the timing of Dll1 expression is changed, Hes1 oscillations are severely dampened, resulting in impaired maintenance and proliferation of neural stem cells and causing microcephaly. Another bHLH factor, Hes5, also shows oscillatory expression in neural stem cells. Hes5 overexpression and knock-out result in abnormal expression of Hmga1 and Hmga2, which are essential for timing the switching of neural stem-cell competency. These data indicate that oscillatory expression of bHLH factors is important for normal neural stem-cell function in the developing nervous system.
Neural progenitors undergo temporal identity transitions to sequentially generate the neuronal and glial cells that make up the mature brain. Proneural genes have well-characterised roles in promoting neural cell differentiation and subtype specification, but they also regulate the timing of identity transitions through poorly understood mechanisms. Here, we investigated how the highly related proneural genes Neurog1 and Neurog2 interact to control the timing of neocortical neurogenesis. We found that Neurog1 acts in an atypical fashion as it is required to suppress rather than promote neuronal differentiation in early corticogenesis. In Neurog1-/- neocortices, early born neurons differentiate in excess, whereas, in vitro, Neurog1-/- progenitors have a decreased propensity to proliferate and form neurospheres. Instead, Neurog1-/- progenitors preferentially generate neurons, a phenotype restricted to the Neurog2+ progenitor pool. Mechanistically, Neurog1 and Neurog2 heterodimerise, and while Neurog1 and Neurog2 individually promote neurogenesis, misexpression together blocks this effect. Finally, Neurog1 is also required to induce the expression of neurogenic factors (Dll1 and Hes5) and to repress the expression of neuronal differentiation genes (Fezf2 and Neurod6). Neurog1 thus employs different mechanisms to temper the pace of early neocortical neurogenesis.
SCOPE: The intestinal mucosal barrier, including the mucus layer, protects against invasion of enteropathogens, thereby inhibiting infection. In this study, the protective effect of Lactobacillus on the intestinal barrier against Salmonella infection is investigated. The underlying mechanism of its effect, specifically on the regulation of goblet cells through the Notch pathway, is also elucidated.METHODS AND RESULTS: Here, the protective effect of Lactobacillus on alleviating changes in the intestinal barrier caused by Salmonella infection is explored. It has been found that Salmonella typhimurium colonizes the colon and damages colonic mucosa. However, Lactobacillus acidophilus ATCC 4356 alleviates the colitis caused by Salmonella infection. Moreover, S. typhimurium infection causes colonic crypt hyperplasia with increased PCNA+ cells, while L. acidophilus administration resolves these pathological changes. In addition, it has been further demonstrated that Salmonella results in severe colitis associated with goblet cells, and Lactobacillus improves colitis similarly associated with goblet cells. Salmonella infection induces goblet cell loss and reduces MUC2 expression by increasing Dll1, Dll4, and HES1 expression, while L. acidophilus reverses epithelial damage by balancing the Notch pathway.CONCLUSION: The study demonstrates that colitis improvement is controlled by Lactobacillus ATCC 4356 by regulation of the Notch pathway; this finding will be useful for prevention against animal S. typhimurium infection.
Terminal deletions of the chromosome 6q27 region are rare genomic abnormalities, linked to specific brain malformations and other neurological phenotypes. Reported cases have variable sized genomic deletions that harbor several genes including the DLL1 and TBP. We report on an inherited 0.38 Mb terminal deletion of chromosome 6q27 in a 22-week fetus with isolated bilateral ventriculomegaly and her affected mother using microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). The deleted region harbors at least seven genes including DLL1 and TBP. The affected mother had a history of hydrocephalus, developmental delay, and seizures commonly associated with DLL1 and TBP 6q27 deletions. This deletion is one of the smallest reported isolated 6q27 terminal deletions. Our data provides additional evidence that haploinsufficiency of the DLL1 and TBP genes may be sufficient to cause the ventriculomegaly, seizures, and developmental delays associated with terminal 6q27 deletions, indicating a plausible role in the abnormal development of the central nervous system.
Erratum in    Osteoporos Int. 2018 Oct 19;:
Comment in    Blood. 2018 Nov 15;132(20):2112-2114.
Germline stem cells (GSCs) are known to transmit genetic information from parents to offspring. These GSCs can undergo reprogramming to transform themselves into pluripotent stem cells, called as Multipotent adult Germline stem cells (maGSCs). The mechanism of the reprogramming of GSCs to maGSCs is elusive. To investigate novel factors that may govern the process of reprogramming, the RNA-seq data of both GSCs and maGSCs were retrieved and subjected to Tuxedo protocol using Galaxy server. Total 1558 differentially expressed genes were identified from the analysis. Protein sequence in the FASTA format of all 1558 differentially expressed genes was retrieved and submitted to Pluripred web server to predict whether the proteins were pluripotent or not. A total of 232 proteins were predicted as pluripotent, and to identify the novel proteins, these were submitted to STRING database to obtain an interaction map. The obtained interaction map was submitted to Cytoscape, and various apps such as MCODE and Centiscape were used to identify the clusters and centrality measures between the nodes of the generated network. Five clusters were identified and ranked according to their score. Novel pluripotent proteins like cadherin related cdh5, cdh10 were predicted. Phox2b, Nrp2, Dll1, Shh, Gbx2, Nodal, Lefty1, Wnt7b, Pitx2, fgf4, Pou5f1, Nanog, Tet1, trim8, alx2, Dppa2, Prdm14,Sox11, Esrrb were predicted to be involved in the stem cell development. Dppa2, Sox11, Sox2, Bmp4, Shh, and Otp were predicted to be involved in positive regulation of the stem cell proliferation. Pathway analysis further revealed that signaling pathways such as Wnt, Jak-Stat and PI3K may play important role in the pluripotency of the maGSCs. Novel proteins involved in pluripotency, which were predicted by our findings, can be experimentally researched in future.
During early pregnancy, iodine deficiency (ID) is linked to adverse effects on child motor and psychomotor function. Maternal marginal ID has become a common public health problem. It is unclear whether marginal ID influences the development of the cerebellum or its underlying mechanisms. Thus, the purpose of this study was to determine the effects of marginal ID on the development of cerebellar Bergmann glial cells (BGs) and investigate the activation of the Notch signaling pathway, which is crucial for the development and morphology of BGs. We treated Wistar rats with an ID diet (iodine content 60 ± 1.5 ng/g) supplemented with deionized water containing different concentrations of potassium iodide (KI) (183, 117, and 0 μg/L for the control, marginal ID, and severe ID groups, respectively) during pregnancy and lactation. We explored the morphology of the BGs by Golgi-Cox staining and immunofluorescence and investigated the Notch signaling pathway using western blot. Our results showed that the marginal ID and severe ID groups had decreased cerebellar BG fiber lengths (P < 0.05 and 0.01, respectively) and numbers (P < 0.01 for both) on postnatal day (PN) 7, PN14, and PN21 compared to the control group. Moreover, the data showed that severe ID significantly reduced Dll1, Notch1, RBP-Jκ, and BLBP protein levels at all three time points. Marginal ID slightly reduced the expression of Notch1 on PN7 (P < 0.05) and PN21 (P < 0.01), RBP-Jκ on PN14 (P < 0.01) and PN21 (P < 0.05), and BLBP on PN7 (P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in Dll1 protein levels between the marginal ID and control groups at any time point. Our study suggests that marginal ID leads to mild damage to BG morphogenesis in the cerebellum. The abnormal regulation of the Notch signaling pathway may be involved in the damage to BGs.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide with neuroprotective and neurotrophic effects. This suggests its influence on the development of teeth, which are, similarly to the nervous system, ectoderm and neural crest derivatives. Our earlier studies have shown morphological differences between wild-type (WT) and PACAP-deficient mice, with upregulated sonic hedgehog (SHH) signaling in the lack of PACAP. Notch signaling is a key element of proper tooth development by regulating apoptosis and cell proliferation. In this study, our main goal was to evaluate the possible effects of PACAP on Notch signaling pathway. Immunohistochemical staining was performed of Notch receptors (Notch1, 2, 3, 4), their ligands [delta-like protein (DLL)1, 3, 4, Jagged1, 2], and intracellular target molecules [CSL (CBF1 humans/Su (H) Drosophila/LAG1 Caenorhabditis elegans transcription factor); TACE (TNF-α converting enzyme), NUMB] in molar teeth of 5-day-old WT, and homozygous and heterozygous PACAP-deficient mice. We measured immunopositivity in the enamel-producing ameloblasts and dentin-producing odontoblasts. Notch2 receptor and DLL1 expression were elevated in ameloblasts of PACAP-deficient mice compared to those in WT ones. The expression of CSL showed similar results both in the ameloblasts and odontoblasts. Jagged1 ligand expression was elevated in the odontoblasts of homozygous PACAP-deficient mice compared to WT mice. Other Notch pathway elements did not show significant differences between the genotype groups. The lack of PACAP leads to upregulation of Notch pathway elements in the odontoblast and ameloblast cells. The underlying molecular mechanisms are yet to be elucidated; however, we propose SHH-dependent and independent processes. We hypothesize that this compensatory upregulation of Notch signaling by the lack of PACAP could represent a salvage pathway in PACAP-deficient animals.
The Notch signaling pathway has been implicated in homeostasis and disease, including cancer, in various tissues. Moreover, it has been involved both in stem cell maintenance and differentiation, in a context-dependent manner. Stem/progenitor cells, on the other hand, have long been suspected to be the cells of origin in various malignancies. In order to gain insight in the role of the Notch ligand Dll1 in mouse development, we generated a knock-in line expressing an inducible Cre recombinase. We have employed in vivo approaches in mice to genetically mark rare subpopulations of cells expressing Dll1 in various adult tissues. Moreover, we conditionally expressed a constitutively active Ras oncoprotein in these cells and showed that within days, mice develop squamous neoplasias in the skin, as well as in the stomach.
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) contractile- synthetic phenotypic conversion takes responsibility in the atherosclerotic plaque formation by abnormal synthesis, secretion and deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM). Matrine exerts therapeutic effects on both cardiovascular diseases and organ fibrosis. In this study, we investigated matrine's inhibitory effect and mechanisms on AGEs- induced VSMC contractile- synthetic phenotypic conversion. Cultured human coronary smooth muscle cells (HCSMCs) were exposed to AGEs. Matrine at serially diluted concentrations were used to treat the cells. HCSMCs phenotype was identified by immunofluorescent staining of contractile phenotypic markers including mooth muscle myosin heavy chain (MYH11) and smooth muscle α-actin (ACTA2). Sircol collagen assay was used to assess the collagen secretion level. Notch signaling activation was determined by luciferase assay. Western blotting was used to evaluate expression levels of collagen I, collagen VIII, Delta-like (Dll)1, Dll3, Dll4, Jagged1, Jagged2, Notch intracellular domain (NICD)1 and Hes family basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor1 (HES1). Matrine pre-treatment recovered the AGEs- induced contractile- synthetic phenotypic conversion by increasing MYH11 and ACTA2 in HCSMCs. Matrine reduced AGEs- mediated activation of Notch signaling, down-regulated expression levels of NICD1, HES1, collagen I and collagen VIII and collagen secretion contents in HCSMCs. Matrine inhibited expression level of Dll4 without affecting other Notch ligands including Dll1, Dll3, Jagged1 and Jagged2 in HCSMCs exposed to AGEs. These results suggested that AGEs exposure facilitated the contractile- synthetic phenotypic conversion of HCSMCs. Matrine blocked this phenotypic conversion by suppressing Dll4- Notch signaling pathway activation.
© 2018 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
The highly conserved Notch signaling pathway essentially participates in immunity through regulation of developmental processes and immune cell activity. In the adaptive immune system, the impact of the Notch cascade in T and B differentiation is well studied. In contrast, the function, and regulation of Notch signaling in the myeloid lineage during infection is poorly understood. Here we show that TLR signaling, triggered through LPS stimulation or in vitro infection with various Gram-negative and -positive bacteria, stimulates Notch receptor ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1) expression and Notch signaling in human blood-derived monocytes. TLR activation induces DLL1 indirectly, through stimulated cytokine expression and autocrine cytokine receptor-mediated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Furthermore, we reveal a positive feedback loop between Notch signaling and Janus kinase (JAK)/STAT3 pathway during in vitro infection that involves Notch-boosted IL-6. Inhibition of Notch signaling by γ-secretase inhibitor DAPT impairs TLR4-stimulated accumulation of NF-κB subunits p65 in the nucleus and subsequently reduces LPS- and infection-mediated IL-6 production. The reduced IL-6 release correlates with a diminished STAT3 phosphorylation and reduced expression of STAT3-dependent target gene programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1). Corroborating recombinant soluble DLL1 and Notch activator oxaliplatin stimulate STAT3 phosphorylation and expression of immune-suppressive PD-L1. Therefore we propose a bidirectional interaction between Notch signaling and STAT3 that stabilizes activation of the transcription factor and supports STAT3-dependent remodeling of myeloid cells toward an immuno-suppressive phenotype. In summary, the study provides new insights into the complex network of Notch regulation in myeloid cells during in vitro infection. Moreover, it points to a participation of Notch in stabilizing TLR-mediated STAT3 activation and STAT3-mediated modulation of myeloid functional phenotype through induction of immune-suppressive PD-L1.
T-cell development is a complex dynamic process that relies on ordered stromal signals delivered to thymus-seeding progenitors that migrate throughout different thymus microenvironments (TMEs). Particularly, Notch signaling provided by thymic epithelial cells (TECs) is crucial for T-cell fate specification and generation of mature T cells. Four canonical Notch ligands (Dll1, Dll4, Jag1 and Jag2) are expressed in the thymus, but their spatial distribution in functional TMEs is largely unknown, especially in humans, and their impact on Notch1 activation during T-lymphopoiesis remains undefined. Based on immunohistochemistry and quantitative confocal microscopy of fetal, postnatal and adult human and mouse thymus samples, we show that spatial regulation of Notch ligand expression defines discrete Notch signaling niches and dynamic species-specific TMEs. We further show that Notch ligand expression, particularly DLL4, is tightly regulated in cortical TECs during human thymus ontogeny and involution. Also, we provide the first evidence that NOTCH1 activation is induced in vivo in CD34+ progenitors and developing thymocytes at particular cortical niches of the human fetal and postnatal thymus. Collectively, our results show that human thymopoiesis involves complex spatiotemporal regulation of Notch ligand expression, which ensures the coordinated delivery of niche-specific NOTCH1 signals required for dynamic T-cell development.
The Notch effectors Hes1 and Hes7 and the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) are expressed in an oscillatory manner during neurogenesis and somitogenesis. These two biological events exhibit different types of oscillations: anti-/out-of-phase oscillation in neural stem cells during neurogenesis and in-phase oscillation in presomitic mesoderm (PSM) cells during somitogenesis. Accelerated or delayed Dll1 expression by shortening or elongating the size of the Dll1 gene, respectively, dampens or quenches Dll1 oscillation at intermediate levels, a phenomenon known as "amplitude/oscillation death" of coupled oscillators. Under this condition, both Hes1 oscillation in neural stem cells and Hes7 oscillation in PSM cells are also dampened. As a result, maintenance of neural stem cells is impaired, leading to microcephaly, while somite segmentation is impaired, leading to severe fusion of somites and their derivatives, such as vertebrae and ribs. Thus, the appropriate timing of Dll1 expression is critical for the oscillatory expression in Notch signaling and normal processes of neurogenesis and somitogenesis. Optogenetic analysis indicated that Dll1 oscillations transfer the oscillatory information between neighboring cells, which may induce anti-/out-of-phase and in-phase oscillations depending on the delay in signaling transmission. These oscillatory dynamics can be described in a unified manner by mathematical modeling.
BACKGROUND: The development of both chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer (LC) is influenced by smoking related chronic pulmonary inflammation caused by an excessive innate immune response to smoke exposure. In addition, the smoking induced formation of covalent bonds between the carcinogens and DNA and the accumulation of permanent somatic mutations in critical genes are important in the carcinogenic processes, and can also induce inflammatory responses. How chronic inflammation is mirrored by serum markers in COPD and LC and if these markers reflect prognosis in patients with LC is, however, largely unknown.METHODS: Serum levels of 18 markers reflecting inflammation, endothelial activation and extracellular matrix remodelling were analysed in 207 patients with non-small lung carcinoma (NSCLC) before surgery and 42 COPD patients. 56% of the LC patients also suffered from COPD. The serum samples were analysed by enzyme immunoassays.RESULTS: Serum levels of OPG, PTX3, AXL, ALCAM, sCD163, CD147, CatS and DLL1 were significantly higher in patients with COPD as compared to patients with LC. High sTNFR1 levels were associated with improved progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in LC patients with (PFS hazard ratio (HR) 0.49, OS HR 0.33) and without COPD (OS HR 0.30). High levels of OPG were associated with improved PFS (HR 0.17) and OS (HR 0.14) for LC with COPD. CRP was significantly associated with overall survival regardless of COPD status.CONCLUSION: Several markers reflecting inflammation, endothelial activation and extracellular matrix remodelling are elevated in serum from patients with COPD compared to LC patients. Presence of COPD might influence the levels of circulating biomarkers. Some of these markers are also associated with prognosis.
The alterations of sialylation on cell surface N-glycans due to overexpression of different sialyltransferases play a vital role in tumorigenesis and tumor progression. The β-galactoside α2-6-sialyltransferase 1 (ST6Gal-I) has been reported to be highly expressed in several cancers, including breast cancer, hepatocellular cancer and colon carcinoma. However, the roles and underlying mechanisms of ST6Gal-I in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) still need to be elucidated. In this study, we determined that mRNA levels of ST3GAL1, ST6GALNAC3 and ST8SIA6 were remarkably reduced in lung cancer tissues and cells, whereas ST6GAL1 level significantly increased. The mRNA, protein and glycan levels of ST6Gal-I were higher in lung cancer tissues and cells. Moreover, down-regulation of ST6Gal-I decreased protein levels of Jagged1, DLL-1, Notch1, Hes1, Hey1, matrix-metalloproteinases (MMPs) and VEGF, and suppressed proliferation, migration and invasion capabilities of A549 and H1299 cells in vitro. In vivo, ST6Gal-I silencing suppressed tumorigenicity of NSCLC cells in athymic nude mice via the Notch1/Hes1/MMPs pathway. In addition, overexpression of Notch1 rescued the reduced growth and metastasis of A549 and H1299 cells resulted by ST6Gal-I silencing. Modification of α2,6-sialylation positively associates with lung cancer progression, thereby indicating that ST6Gal-I may mediate the invasiveness and tumorigenicity of NSCLC cells via the Notch1/Hes1/MMPs pathway both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, our results provide a novel therapeutic approach for blocking metastasis in lung cancer patients.
Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of Public Health, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou 350108, China.
Cerebral cortex size differs dramatically between reptiles, birds, and mammals, owing to developmental differences in neuron production. In mammals, signaling pathways regulating neurogenesis have been identified, but genetic differences behind their evolution across amniotes remain unknown. We show that direct neurogenesis from radial glia cells, with limited neuron production, dominates the avian, reptilian, and mammalian paleocortex, whereas in the evolutionarily recent mammalian neocortex, most neurogenesis is indirect via basal progenitors. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments in mouse, chick, and snake embryos and in human cerebral organoids demonstrate that high Slit/Robo and low Dll1 signaling, via Jag1 and Jag2, are necessary and sufficient to drive direct neurogenesis. Attenuating Robo signaling and enhancing Dll1 in snakes and birds recapitulates the formation of basal progenitors and promotes indirect neurogenesis. Our study identifies modulation in activity levels of conserved signaling pathways as a primary mechanism driving the expansion and increased complexity of the mammalian neocortex during amniote evolution.
Having demonstrated that apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) mimetic peptides ameliorate cancer in mouse models, we sought to determine the mechanism for the anti-tumorigenic function of these peptides. CT-26 cells (colon cancer cells that implant and grow into tumors in the lungs) were injected into wild-type BALB/c mice. The day after injection, mice were either continued on chow or switched to chow containing 0.06% of a concentrate of transgenic tomatoes expressing the apoA-I mimetic peptide 6F (Tg6F). After four weeks, the number of lung tumors was significantly lower in Tg6F-fed mice. Gene expression array analyses of jejunum and lung identified Notch pathway genes significantly upregulated, whereas osteopontin (Spp1) was significantly downregulated by Tg6F in both jejunum and lung. In jejunum, Tg6F increased protein levels for Notch1, Notch2, Dll1, and Dll4. In lung, Tg6F increased protein levels for Notch1 and Dll4 and decreased Spp1. Tg6F reduced oxidized phospholipid levels (E06 immunoreactivity) and reduced 25-hydroxycholesterol (25-OHC) levels, which are known to inhibit Notch1 and induce Spp1, respectively. Notch pathway promotes anti-tumorigenic patrolling monocytes, while Spp1 facilitates pro-tumorigenic myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) formation. Tg6F-fed mice had higher numbers of patrolling monocytes in jejunum and in lung (p < 0.02), and lower plasma levels of Spp1 with reduced numbers of MDSCs in jejunum and in lung (p < 0.03). We conclude that Tg6F alters levels of specific oxidized lipids and 25-OHC to modulate Notch pathways and Spp1, which alter small intestine immune cells, leading to similar changes in lung that reduce tumor burden.
Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer-associated mortality in developed countries. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) accounts for ~90% of all pancreatic cancer cases. The Notch signaling pathway serves a crucial role in embryonic development, as well as during the tumorigenesis of different types of cancer. However, Notch signaling serves either oncogenic or tumor suppressor roles depending on the tissue type. There are four Notch receptors (Notch1-4) and five ligands [Jagged1, Jagged2, δ-like ligand protein (DLL)1, DLL3 and DLL4]; therefore, it has been suggested that the different Notch receptors serve distinct roles in the same type of tissue. To determine whether this is the case, the present study measured the expression of all Notch receptors and their ligands in PDAC tissue samples and cells. Immunohistochemistry was performed to measure the expression of Notch receptors and their ligands in paraffin-embedded PDAC tissue samples. Immunofluorescence was used to detect the expression of Notch receptors in the pancreatic cancer cell lines human pancreatic adenocarcinoma (HPAC) and PANC-1. In addition, levels of Notch receptors and ligands in HPAC and PANC-1 cells were analyzed by western blot analysis. The results revealed that levels of Notch1 and Notch3 were increased in PDAC tissues, whereas levels of Notch2 and Notch3 were not. The expression of Notch receptors in the pancreatic cancer cell lines HPAC and PANC-1 was consistent with their expression in PDAC tissues. Additionally, levels of the ligands DLL1, DLL3 and DLL4 were increased in HPAC and PANC-1 cells, as well as PDAC tissue samples. However, the expression of Jagged1 and 2 remained low. These results indicate that Notch1, Notch3, DLL1, DLL3 and DLL4 are upregulated in PDAC, a positive correlation was observed between the expression of Notch1 and Notch3, and between Notch1 and the ligands DLL1, DLL3 and DLL4. whereas Notch2, Notch4, Jagged1 and Jagged2 are not. The interaction of Notch1 and Notch3 with Notch ligands DLL1, DLL3 and DLL4 may be important in maintaining the tumor phenotype of pancreatic cancer.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common age-related neurodegenerative disease in the elderly and the patients suffer from uncontrolled movement disorders due to loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons on substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). We previously reported that transplantation of human fetal midbrain-derived neural precursor cells restored the functional deficits of a 6-hydroxy dopamine (6-OHDA)-treated rodent model of PD but its low viability and ethical issues still remain to be solved. Albeit immune privilege and neural differentiation potentials suggest mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) from various tissues including human placenta MSCs (hpMSCs) for an alternative source, our understanding of their therapeutic mechanisms is still limited. To expand our knowledge on the MSC-mediated PD treatment, we here investigated the therapeutic mechanism of hpMSCs and hpMSC-derived neural phenotype cells (hpNPCs) using a PD rat model. Whereas both hpMSCs and hpNPCs protected DA neurons in the SNpc at comparable levels, the hpNPC transplantation into 6-OHDA treated rats exhibited longer lasting recovery in motor deficits than either the saline or the hpMSC treated rats. The injected hpNPCs induced delta-like ligand (DLL)1 and neurotrophic factors, and influenced environments prone to neuroprotection. Compared with hpMSCs, co-cultured hpNPCs more efficiently protected primary neural precursor cells from midbrain against 6-OHDA as well as induced their differentiation into DA neurons. Further experiments with conditioned media from hpNPCs revealed that the secreted factors from hpNPCs modulated immune responses and neural protection. Taken together, both DLL1-mediated contact signals and paracrine factors play critical roles in hpNPC-mediated improvement. First showing here that hpMSCs and their neural derivative hpNPCs were able to restore the PD-associated deficits via dual mechanisms, neuroprotection and immunosuppression, this study expanded our knowledge of therapeutic mechanisms in PD and other age-related diseases.
AIM: Tuberculosis meningitis (TBM) diagnosis is difficult, new biomarkers are needed. We evaluated the diagnostic utility of delta-like 1 protein (DLL1), vitamin D binding protein (VDBP) and fetuin.METHODS: Biomarker concentrations were measured by ELISA in cryopreserved cerebrospinal fluid from 139 HIV-infected Ugandans with suspected meningitis. TBM was diagnosed by GeneXpert MTB/Rif or culture. Cohort diagnoses included TBM (n = 22), cryptococcal (n = 71), or aseptic meningitis (n = 16) and no meningitis (n = 30).RESULTS: DLL1 (cut-off value 1150 pg/ml) provided 32% sensitivity and 98% specificity. Adding fetuin, cryptococcal antigen and IFN-γ resulted in sensitivities of 36, 63 and 76% with specificities of 98, 90 and 92%, respectively. VDBP (cut-off value 2.0 μg/ml) provided 81% sensitivity and 68% specificity while fetuin (cut-off value 2 μg/ml) provided a sensitivity of 86% and specificity of 68%.CONCLUSION: CSF DLL1, VDBP and fetuin exhibited fair diagnostic performance for TBM diagnosis.
Author information:(1)Dept. of Stomatology, The 2nd Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University, Urumqi 830063, China.
Comment in    Science. 2018 Jun 29;360(6396):1401-1402.
NOTCH signaling is required for the arterial specification and formation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and lympho-myeloid progenitors in the embryonic aorta-gonad-mesonephros region and extraembryonic vasculature from a distinct lineage of vascular endothelial cells with hemogenic potential. However, the role of NOTCH signaling in hemogenic endothelium (HE) specification from human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC) has not been studied. Here, using a chemically defined hPSC differentiation system combined with the use of DLL1-Fc and DAPT to manipulate NOTCH, we discover that NOTCH activation in hPSC-derived immature HE progenitors leads to formation of CD144+CD43-CD73-DLL4+Runx1 + 23-GFP+ arterial-type HE, which requires NOTCH signaling to undergo endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition and produce definitive lympho-myeloid and erythroid cells. These findings demonstrate that NOTCH-mediated arterialization of HE is an essential prerequisite for establishing definitive lympho-myeloid program and suggest that exploring molecular pathways that lead to arterial specification may aid in vitro approaches to enhance definitive hematopoiesis from hPSCs.
Nephron progenitor cells (NPCs) are Six2-positive metanephric mesenchyme cells, which undergo self-renewal and differentiation to give rise to nephrons until the end of nephrogenesis. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are a group of epigenetic regulators that control cell fate, but their role in balancing NPC renewal and differentiation is unknown. Here, we report that NPC-specific deletion of Hdac1 and Hdac2 genes in mice results in early postnatal lethality owing to renal hypodysplasia and loss of NPCs. HDAC1/2 interact with the NPC renewal regulators Six2, Osr1 and Sall1, and are co-bound along with Six2 on the Six2 enhancer. Although the mutant NPCs differentiate into renal vesicles (RVs), Hdac1/2 mutant kidneys lack nascent nephrons or mature glomeruli, a phenocopy of Lhx1 mutants. Transcriptional profiling and network analysis identified disrupted expression of Lhx1 and its downstream genes, Dll1 and Hnf1a/4a, as key mediators of the renal phenotype. Finally, although HDAC1/2-deficient NPCs and RVs overexpress hyperacetylated p53, Trp53 deletion failed to rescue the renal dysgenesis. We conclude that the epigenetic regulators HDAC1 and HDAC2 control nephrogenesis via interactions with the transcriptional programs of nephron progenitors and renal vesicles.
The vertebrate neuroepithelium is composed of elongated progenitors whose reciprocal attachments ensure the continuity of the ventricular wall. As progenitors commit to differentiation, they translocate their nucleus basally and eventually withdraw their apical endfoot from the ventricular surface. However, the mechanisms allowing this delamination process to take place while preserving the integrity of the neuroepithelial tissue are still unclear. Here, we show that Notch signaling, which is classically associated with an undifferentiated state, remains active in prospective neurons until they delaminate. During this transition period, prospective neurons rapidly reduce their apical surface and only later down-regulate N-Cadherin levels. Upon Notch blockade, nascent neurons disassemble their junctions but fail to reduce their apical surface. This disrupted sequence weakens the junctional network and eventually leads to breaches in the ventricular wall. We also provide evidence that the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) promotes differentiation by reducing Notch signaling through a Cis-inhibition mechanism. However, during the delamination process, the ubiquitin ligase Mindbomb1 (Mib1) transiently blocks this Cis-inhibition and sustains Notch activity to defer differentiation. We propose that the fine-tuned balance between Notch Trans-activation and Cis-inhibition allows neuroepithelial cells to seamlessly delaminate from the ventricular wall as they commit to differentiation.
Notch signalling maintains stem cell regeneration at the mouse intestinal crypt base and balances the absorptive and secretory lineages in the upper crypt and villus. Here we report the role of Fringe family of glycosyltransferases in modulating Notch activity in the two compartments. At the crypt base, RFNG is enriched in the Paneth cells and increases cell surface expression of DLL1 and DLL4. This promotes Notch activity in the neighbouring Lgr5+ stem cells assisting their self-renewal. Expressed by various secretory cells in the upper crypt and villus, LFNG promotes DLL surface expression and suppresses the secretory lineage . Hence, in the intestinal epithelium, Fringes are present in the ligand-presenting 'sender' secretory cells and promote Notch activity in the neighbouring 'receiver' cells. Fringes thereby provide for targeted modulation of Notch activity and thus the cell fate in the stem cell zone, or the upper crypt and villus.
Angiogenesis is coordinated by VEGF and Notch signaling. DLL4-induced Notch signaling inhibits tip cell formation and vessel branching. To ensure proper Notch signaling, receptors and ligands are clustered at adherens junctions. However, little is known about factors that control Notch activity by influencing the cellular localization of Notch ligands. Here, we show that the multiple PDZ domain protein (MPDZ) enhances Notch signaling activity. MPDZ physically interacts with the intracellular carboxyterminus of DLL1 and DLL4 and enables their interaction with the adherens junction protein Nectin-2. Inactivation of the MPDZ gene leads to impaired Notch signaling activity and increased blood vessel sprouting in cellular models and the embryonic mouse hindbrain. Tumor angiogenesis was enhanced upon endothelial-specific inactivation of MPDZ leading to an excessively branched and poorly functional vessel network resulting in tumor hypoxia. As such, we identified MPDZ as a novel modulator of Notch signaling by controlling ligand recruitment to adherens junctions.
The Notch signaling pathway plays a crucial role in neurodevelopment and in adult brain homeostasis. We aimed to further investigate Notch pathway activity in bipolar disorder (BD) and schizophrenia (SCZ) by conducting a pathway analysis. We measured plasma levels of Notch ligands (DLL1 and DLK1) using enzyme immunoassays in a large sample of patients (SCZ n = 551, BD n = 246) and healthy controls (HC n = 639). We also determined Notch pathway related gene expression levels by microarray analyses from whole blood in a subsample (SCZ n = 338, BD n = 241 and HC n = 263). We found significantly elevated Notch ligand levels in plasma in both SCZ and BD compared to HC. Significant gene expression findings included increased levels of RFNG and KAT2B (p < 0.001), and decreased levels of PSEN1 and CREBBP in both patient groups (p < 0.001). RBPJ was significantly lower in SCZ vs HC (p < 0.001), and patients using lithium had higher levels of RBPJ (p < 0.001). We provide evidence of altered Notch signaling in both SCZ and BD compared to HC, and suggest that Notch signaling pathway may be disturbed in these disorders. Lithium may ameliorate aberrant Notch signaling. We propose that drugs targeting Notch pathway could be relevant in the treatment of psychotic disorders.
Glucocorticoids in excess suppress osteoblast function and cause osteoporosis. We demonstrated that cortisol induces the expression of selected Notch receptors in osteoblasts, revealing a potential mechanism for the skeletal effects of glucocorticoids. However, it remains to be determined whether increased expression of Notch receptors results into enhanced signaling. Following activation of Notch, its intracellular domain (NICD) binds to the DNA-associated protein recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa-J region (RBPJ) and induces the expression of target genes such as Hey1, Hey2, and HeyL. To determine whether glucocorticoids modulate Notch signaling in the skeleton, 1 month old wild-type mice were administered prednisolone or placebo and sacrificed after 72 h, and gene expression was analyzed in femoral bone. Prednisolone induced Tsc22d3, a glucocorticoid target gene, and suppressed Hey1 and HeyL expression, which is indicative of inhibited Notch receptor activity or direct Hey downregulation. To determine the mechanisms of Hey suppression, wild-type osteoblast-enriched cells were seeded on the Notch cognate ligand Delta-like (DLL)1 or transfected with constructs expressing the NOTCH1 NICD fragment and exposed to either cortisol or vehicle. Cortisol opposed the induction of mRNA and heterogeneous nuclear RNA for Hey1, Hey2, and HeyL by DLL1, but had no effect on mRNA stability, indicating that glucocorticoids inhibit Hey expression by transcriptional mechanisms. Transactivation studies and electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that cortisol did not oppose RBPJ-mediated transcription or RBPJ/DNA interactions, respectively. In conclusion, glucocorticoids suppress expression of Hey1, Hey2, and HeyL in osteoblasts by RBPJ-independent transcriptional mechanisms.
Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived T cells may provide future therapies for cancer patients, but those generated by current methods, such as the OP9/DLL1 system, have shown abnormalities that pose major barriers for clinical translation. Our data indicate that these iPSC-derived CD8 single-positive T cells are more like CD4+CD8+ double-positive T cells than mature naive T cells because they display phenotypic markers of developmental arrest and an innate-like phenotype after stimulation. We developed a 3D thymic culture system to avoid these aberrant developmental fates, generating a homogeneous subset of CD8αβ+ antigen-specific T cells, designated iPSC-derived thymic emigrants (iTEs). iTEs exhibit phenotypic and functional similarities to naive T cells both in vitro and in vivo, including the capacity for expansion, memory formation, and tumor suppression. These data illustrate the limitations of current methods and provide a tool to develop the next generation of iPSC-based antigen-specific immunotherapies.
Notch signaling is a candidate pathway that transmits environmental information into the cell and interferes with the epigenome of gastric cancer. This study aimed to explore if the Notch pathway was abnormally regulated during gastric tumorigenesis. To achieve the goal, Delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1) gene expression, Notch upstream signal, promoter methylation and its correlation with DLL1 expression were examined by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and real-time PCR (RT-PCR) in cultured gastric cancer cell lines or gastric cancer patient samples. Immunostainings and tissue arrays (n = 40) were used to confirm the DLL1 expression was down-regulated in cancer cells. Transient or stable Notch1 active domain (NICD)-overexpression suppressed proliferation of the gastric cells but the in vivo tumor growth was enhanced. The results of abnormal DLL1 methylation and expression observed in early gastric lesions and in gastric cancers may be relevant to the pathogenesis of gastric cancer.
Intestine is vulnerable to irradiation injury, which induces cell death and compromises regeneration of intestinal crypts. It is well accepted that cryptic stem cells, which are responsible for cryptic regeneration under physiological and pathological conditions, are controlled by multiple cell-intrinsic and environmental signals such as Notch signaling. Therefore, in the present study, we tested whether a soluble Notch ligand tethered to endothelial cells-mD1R-the Delta-Serrate-Lag2 (DSL) domain of mouse Notch ligand Delta-like1 fused with a RGD motif could protect cryptic cells from irradiation-induced intestinal injury. The result showed that administration of mD1R, which activated Notch signaling in intestinal cells, ameliorated loss of body weight and reduction of cryptic structures in intestine after total body irradiation (TBI) in mice. Histological staining showed that injection of mD1R after TBI promoted cryptic cell proliferation and reduced cell apoptosis in crypts. Immunofluorescence staining and reverse transcription (RT)-PCR showed that mD1R increased the level of Lgr5, Bmi1, Olfactomedin-4 (OLFM4), and IRIG1 in crypts, suggesting a protective effect on cryptic stem and progenitor cells after irradiation. Moreover, we found that administration of mD1R increased the number of Paneth cells and the mRNA level of Defa1, and the number Alcian Blue+ Goblet cells decreased first and then increased after irradiation, suggesting that mD1R promoted the maturation of the intestinal crypt after irradiation injury. Our data suggested that mD1R could serve as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of irradiation-induced intestinal injury.
Comment in    Dev Cell. 2018 Feb 26;44(4):411-412.
OBJECTIVE: Homozygous loss-of-function mutations in the gene coding for the homeobox transcription factor (TF) PDX1 leads to pancreatic agenesis, whereas heterozygous mutations can cause Maturity-Onset Diabetes of the Young 4 (MODY4). Although the function of Pdx1 is well studied in pre-clinical models during insulin-producing β-cell development and homeostasis, it remains elusive how this TF controls human pancreas development by regulating a downstream transcriptional program. Also, comparative studies of PDX1 binding patterns in pancreatic progenitors and adult β-cells have not been conducted so far. Furthermore, many studies reported the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and T2DM, and it has been shown that islet enhancers are enriched in T2DM-associated SNPs. Whether regions, harboring T2DM-associated SNPs are PDX1 bound and active at the pancreatic progenitor stage has not been reported so far.METHODS: In this study, we have generated a novel induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) line that efficiently differentiates into human pancreatic progenitors (PPs). Furthermore, PDX1 and H3K27ac chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) was used to identify PDX1 transcriptional targets and active enhancer and promoter regions. To address potential differences in the function of PDX1 during development and adulthood, we compared PDX1 binding profiles from PPs and adult islets. Moreover, combining ChIP-seq and GWAS meta-analysis data we identified T2DM-associated SNPs in PDX1 binding sites and active chromatin regions.RESULTS: ChIP-seq for PDX1 revealed a total of 8088 PDX1-bound regions that map to 5664 genes in iPSC-derived PPs. The PDX1 target regions include important pancreatic TFs, such as PDX1 itself, RFX6, HNF1B, and MEIS1, which were activated during the differentiation process as revealed by the active chromatin mark H3K27ac and mRNA expression profiling, suggesting that auto-regulatory feedback regulation maintains PDX1 expression and initiates a pancreatic TF program. Remarkably, we identified several PDX1 target genes that have not been reported in the literature in human so far, including RFX3, required for ciliogenesis and endocrine differentiation in mouse, and the ligand of the Notch receptor DLL1, which is important for endocrine induction and tip-trunk patterning. The comparison of PDX1 profiles from PPs and adult human islets identified sets of stage-specific target genes, associated with early pancreas development and adult β-cell function, respectively. Furthermore, we found an enrichment of T2DM-associated SNPs in active chromatin regions from iPSC-derived PPs. Two of these SNPs fall into PDX1 occupied sites that are located in the intronic regions of TCF7L2 and HNF1B. Both of these genes are key transcriptional regulators of endocrine induction and mutations in cis-regulatory regions predispose to diabetes.CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide stage-specific target genes of PDX1 during in vitro differentiation of stem cells into pancreatic progenitors that could be useful to identify pathways and molecular targets that predispose for diabetes. In addition, we show that T2DM-associated SNPs are enriched in active chromatin regions at the pancreatic progenitor stage, suggesting that the susceptibility to T2DM might originate from imperfect execution of a β-cell developmental program.
Notch signalling is an evolutionary conserved cell-to-cell communication pathway crucial for development and tissue homeostasis. Abnormal Notch signalling by mutations or deregulated expression of its receptors and/or ligands can lead to cancer making it a potential therapeutic target. Delta-like1 (DLL1) is a ligand of the Notch pathway implicated in different types of cancer, including breast cancer. Herein, we produced rhDLL1-DE3, a novel soluble form of DLL1 protein, which contains the DSL domain and EGF1-3 repeats critical for Notch pathway activation. cDNA fragments of human DLL1, encoding truncated versions of DLL1 with regions required to activate Notch receptors, were cloned and expressed as histidine-fused proteins in bacterial and mammalian cells. Expression tests in mammalian cells showed almost exclusively expression of the rhDLL1-DE3 protein form comprising the minimal binding regions DSL to EGF3 to Notch receptors. The highest yield of rhDLL1-DE3 was obtained from E. coli inclusion bodies. The produced protein, with purity higher than 95% bound to human Notch1 recombinant protein, by both Biolayer interferometry and ELISA assays. Cellular assays revealed rhDLL1-DE3 was biologically active as it increased expression of Notch-dependent genes in inducible pluripotent and breast cancer cells. Moreover, rhDLL1-DE3 allowed the generation of polyclonal antibodies by immunization that efficiently recognized DLL1 proteins by immunoblot, and caused a significant decrease of Notch1 expression in MCF7 breast cancer cells. The rhDLL1-DE3 protein might thus be used for Notch pathway activation and to generate anti-DLL1 monoclonal antibodies by immunization or phage display technology to unveil the effect of DLL1 in breast cancer.
Notch signaling is an evolutionary conserved signaling pathway that plays an indispensable role during development, and in the maintenance of homeostatic processes, in a wide variety of tissues (Kopan, 2012; Hori et al., 2013). The multifaceted roles of Notch signaling are stringently regulated at different levels. One of the most important aspects of regulation is the binding of different Notch ligands to each Notch receptor (NOTCH1-NOTCH4). Canonical ligands Delta or Serrate (in Drosophila), and Delta-like (DLL1 and DLL4) or Jagged (JAG1 and JAG2) (in mammals), are transmembrane glycoproteins. Ligands expressed on one cell bind to Notch receptors on an adjacent cell to induce Notch signaling. Glycosylation of Notch receptor extracellular domain by O-fucose and O-GlcNAc glycans is well established as critical regulators for Notch signaling strength (Stanley and Okajima, 2010; Haltom and Jafar-Nejad, 2015; Sawaguchi et al., 2017). In order to characterize Notch ligand binding to Notch receptors in isolated cells, we utilize Notch ligand extracellular domains tagged at the C-terminus by a human Fc domain, and determine binding of fluorescent anti-Fc antibody by flow cytometry.
BACKGROUND: Notch signaling controls many cellular processes, including cell fate determination, cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis. In mammals, four Notch receptors (Notch 1-4) can interact with five distinct ligands [Jagged1, Jagged2, Delta-like 1 (DLL1), DLL3, and DLL4]. We previously reported that Notch activation is modulated in endothelial cells and monocytes during inflammation and showed that inflammation upregulates DLL4 on endothelial cells. DLL4 promotes differentiation of blood monocytes into proinflammatory M1 macrophages. Here, we further investigated the ability of DLL4 to interfere with the polarization of blood monocytes into immunosuppressive M2 macrophages.METHODS: Human blood monocytes were differentiated in vitro into M0 macrophages and then polarized into M1 or M2 macrophages with LPS/IFNγ and IL-4, respectively. Polarization steps were performed in the presence of immobilized recombinant DLL4. Immune phenotype and apoptosis of macrophage subsets were analyzed and quantified by flow cytometry. Regulatory effects of DLL4 on gene expression, cell signaling and apoptotic pathways were investigated by QPCR and western blots.RESULTS: The phenotype of M2 macrophages was subject to specific alterations in the presence of recombinant DLL4. DLL4 inhibits the upregulation of IL-4 induced M2 markers such as CD11b, CD206, and CD200R. Survival of macrophages upon M2 polarization was also strongly reduced in the presence of DLL4. DLL4 induces a caspase3/7-dependent apoptosis during M2 but not M1 macrophage polarization. The Notch ligand DLL1 has no apoptotic effect. Both DLL4 signaling via Notch1 as well as DLL4-mediated apoptosis are Notch-dependent. Fully differentiated M2 macrophages became resistant to DLL4 action. Mechanistically, DLL4 selectively upregulates gene expression in macrophages upon M2 polarization, thereby affecting the Notch pattern (Notch1, 3, Jag1), activity (HES1), and transcription (IRF5, STAT1). The pro-apoptotic effectors Bax and Bak and the BH3-only proteins Bid and Bim seem to convey DLL4 apoptotic signal.CONCLUSION: Interplay between the DLL4/Notch and IL-4/IL-4R signaling pathways impairs M2 differentiation. Thus, DLL4 may drive a Notch-dependent selection process not only by promoting M1 macrophage differentiation but also by preventing M2 macrophage differentiation through inhibition of M2-specific gene expression and apoptotic cell death.
The intestinal epithelium is characterized by an extremely rapid turnover rate. In mammals, the entire epithelial lining is renewed within 4 - 5 days. Adult intestinal stem cells reside at the bottom of the crypts of Lieberkühn, are earmarked by expression of the Lgr5 gene, and preserve homeostasis through their characteristic high proliferative rate1. Throughout the small intestine, Lgr5+ stem cells are intermingled with specialized secretory cells called Paneth cells. Paneth cells secrete antibacterial compounds (i.e., lysozyme and cryptdins/defensins) and exert a controlling role on the intestinal flora. More recently, a novel function has been discovered for Paneth cells, namely their capacity to provide niche support to Lgr5+ stem cells through several key ligands as Wnt3, EGF, and Dll12. When isolated ex vivo and cultured in the presence of specific growth factors and extracellular matrix components, whole intestinal crypts give rise to long-lived and self-renewing 3D structures called organoids that highly resemble the crypt-villus epithelial architecture of the adult small intestine3. Organoid cultures, when established from whole crypts, allow the study of self-renewal and differentiation of the intestinal stem cell niche, though without addressing the contribution of its individual components, namely the Lgr5+ and Paneth cells. Here, we describe a novel approach to the organoid assay that takes advantage of the ability of Paneth and Lgr5+ cells to associate and form organoids when co-cultured. This approach, here referred to as "organoid reconstitution assay" (ORA), allows the genetic and biochemical modification of Paneth or Lgr5+ stem cells, followed by reconstitution into organoids. As such, it allows the functional analysis of the two main components of the intestinal stem cell niche.
How to effectively delivering therapeutic agents, including γ-secretase inhibitors (GSIs), into live cells, remains a significant challenge. This study assessed the effect of Notch signaling inhibition by examining levels of the Notch1 intracellular domain (N1ICD) in cultured oral cancer cells analyzed with random stitched images (2D) and 3D visualizations using confocal microscopy and quantitative gene analysis. Substantially, we have developed a novel method to assist the delivery of γ-secretase inhibitor, DAPT, into live cells in the presence of an effective minimum concentration of Triton-X100 (0.001%) without damaging cell activity and membrane integrity assessed with cell proliferation assays. The images obtained in this study showed that DAPT alone could not block the γ-secretase inhibitor despite inhibiting cell growth. Further analysis of quantitative gene expressions of Notch signaling canonical pathway to verify the effectiveness of the novel method for delivering inhibitor into live cells, displayed deregulation of Notch1, Delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1) and hairy and enhancer of split 1 (Hes1). Our data suggest that Notch1/Hes1 signaling pathway is deactivated using DAPT with a low dose of Triton-X100 in this cancer cells. And the finding also suggests that Notch1 could be engaged by DLL1 to promote differentiation in oral cancer cells. Using this approach, we demonstrate that Triton-X100 is a promising and effective permeabilization agent to deliver γ-secretase inhibitor DAPT into live oral epithelial cells. This strategy has the potential to implicate in the treatment of cancer diseases.
Food allergy includes sensitization phase and effect phase, and effect cells degranulate and secrete cytokines in the effect phase, causing allergic clinical symptoms. We have demonstrated that Notch signaling plays an important role in the sensitization phase, but its role in effect phases still remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of Notch signaling in degranulation and cytokine production of the effect phase response. A RBL-2H3 cell model was used and Notch signaling was induced by priming with Notch ligands. Our results showed after priming with Notch ligand, Delta-like1(Dll1)-Fc, β-hexosaminidase release, and cytokines production, including TGF-β, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-6, and IL-13, were increased significantly, and the enhancement was abolished after DAPT treatment, a γ-secretase inhibitor, indicating that Dll1 Notch signaling enhanced RBL-2H3 cell degranulation and cytokine production. Western blot analysis showed that Dll1 Notch signaling augmented high-affinity IgE receptors-mediated phosphorylation of MAPKs through suppressing the expression of downstream tyrosine kinases 1 (Dok-1). Besides, a passive systemic anaphylaxis mouse model was used to confirm the role of Notch signaling. And our data showed that allergic clinical features of mice were alleviated, and the level of degranulation was decreased significantly after inhibiting Notch signaling in vivo. Therefore, we demonstrated Notch ligand Dll1 enhanced RBL-2H3 cell degranulation and cytokine production through a novel Notch/Dok-1/MAPKs pathway, suggesting Notch signaling played a key role in the effect phase of food allergy.
Comment in    Nat Chem Biol. 2017 Dec 12;14(1):3-4.
Notch signaling plays an important role in several cellular functions including growth, differentiation, cell fate determination and stemness. Increased Notch activity has been linked to several types of cancers. Activation of Notch signaling is triggered by the interaction of Notch receptors (Notch1-4) with 5 different ligands (Jagged1-2 and Dll1-3-4) expressed on the neighbouring cells. Currently, indirect approaches to inhibit Notch signalling are based on the inhibition of the key step of Notch activation catalyzed by the γ-Secretase and thereby affect several different γ-Secretase substrates; conversely direct strategies get advantage of antibody-based drugs. The evidence that Jagged-mediated Notch activation plays a key role in cancer cell biology and the interplay with the surrounding microenvironment prompted us to develop a strategy to directly inhibit Notch activation by uncoupling its interaction with the Jagged, using an unprecedented approach based on small molecules. We set-up a screening strategy based on: protein::protein docking of crystallographic structures of Notch1 with Jagged1; comparative modelling of the Notch2:Jagged2 complex, based on the Notch1::Jagged1 complex; in silico high-throughput screening directed to Notch2 interaction surface of a virtual chemical library containing a large variety of molecules commercially available. The predicted pharmacological activity of the selected compounds was validated in vitro by a gene reporter and a viability assay. This approach led to the successful identification of two candidates with different anti-proliferative potency and efficacy. This represents the first step towards the rational identification of candidate molecules for the development of entirely novel drugs directed to inhibit Notch signaling in cancer.
The spread of Avian influenza virus via animal feces makes the virus difficult to prevent, which causes great threat to human health. Therefore, it is imperative to understand the survival and invasion mechanism of H9N2 virus in the intestinal mucosa. In this study, we used mouse threedimensional intestinal organoids that contained intestinal crypts and villi differentiated from intestinal stem cells to explore interactions between H9N2 avian influenza virus and the intestinal mucosa. The HA, NA, NP and PB1 genes of H9N2 viruses could be detected in intestinal organoids at 1 h, and reached peak levels at 48 h post-infection. Moreover, the HA and NP proteins of H9N2 virus could also be detected in organoids via immunofluorescence. Virus invasion caused damage to intestinal organoids with reduced mRNA transcript expression of Wnt3, Dll1 and Dll4. The abnormal growth of intestinal organoids may be attributed to the loss of Paneth cells, as indicated by the low mRNA transcript levels of lyz1 and defcr1. This present study demonstrates that H9N2 virus could invade intestinal organoids and then cause damage, as well as affect intestinal stem cell proliferation and differentiation, promoting the loss of Paneth cells.
Author information:(1)Shuguang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine; Institute of Liver Diseases, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 201203, China.
Notch and interleukin-22 (IL-22) signaling are known to regulate tissue homeostasis and respond to injury in humans and mice, and the induction of endogenous aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) ligands through Notch links the two pathways in a hierarchical fashion. However in adults, the species-, organ- and injury-specific gene expression of the Notch-AhR-IL22 axis components is unknown. We therefore performed gene expression profiling of DLL1, DLL3, DLL4, DLK1, DLK2, JAG1, JAG2, Notch1, Notch2, Notch3, Notch4, ADAM17/TNF-α ADAM metalloprotease converting enzyme (TACE), PSEN1, basigin (BSG)/CD147, RBP-J, HES1, HES5, HEY1, HEYL, AHR, ARNT, ARNT2, CYP1A1, CYP24A1, IL-22, IL22RA1, IL22RA2, IL10RB, and STAT3 under homeostatic conditions in ten mature murine and human organs. Additionally, the expression of these genes was assessed in murine models of acute sterile inflammation and progressive fibrosis. We show that there are organ-specific gene expression profiles of the Notch-AhR-IL22 axis in humans and mice. Although there is an overall interspecies congruency, specific differences between human and murine expression signatures do exist. In murine tissues with AHR/ARNT expression CYP1A1 and IL-22 were correlated with HES5 and HEYL expression, while in human tissues no such correlation was found. Notch and AhR signaling are involved in renal inflammation and fibrosis with specific gene expression changes in each model. Despite the presence of all Notch pathway molecules in the kidney and a model-specific induction of Notch ligands, IL-22 was only up-regulated in acute inflammation, but rapidly down-regulated during regeneration. This implies that for targeting injury responses, e.g. via IL-22, species-specific differences, injury type and time points have to be considered.
Ischemia causes an inflammatory response that is intended to restore perfusion and homeostasis yet often aggravates damage. Here we show, using conditional genetic deletion strategies together with adoptive cell transfer experiments in a mouse model of hind limb ischemia, that blood vessels control macrophage differentiation and maturation from recruited monocytes via Notch signaling, which in turn promotes arteriogenesis and tissue repair. Macrophage maturation is controlled by Notch ligand Dll1 expressed in vascular endothelial cells of arteries and requires macrophage canonical Notch signaling via Rbpj, which simultaneously suppresses an inflammatory macrophage fate. Conversely, conditional mutant mice lacking Dll1 or Rbpj show proliferation and transient accumulation of inflammatory macrophages, which antagonizes arteriogenesis and tissue repair. Furthermore, the effects of Notch are sufficient to generate mature macrophages from monocytes ex vivo that display a stable anti-inflammatory phenotype when challenged with pro-inflammatory stimuli. Thus, angiocrine Notch signaling fosters macrophage maturation during ischemia.Molecular mechanisms of macrophage-mediated regulation of artery growth in response to ischemia are poorly understood. Here the authors show that vascular endothelium controls macrophage maturation and differentiation via Notch signaling, which in turn promotes arteriogenesis and ischemic tissue recovery.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are professional antigen-presenting cells, and Notch ligand Delta-like-1 (DLL1) on DCs was implicated in type 1T helper (Th1) differentiation. In this study, we produced genetically engineered bone marrow-derived DCs that expressed DLL1 (DLL1-DCs) by adenoviral transduction. DLL1-DCs exerted a fully mature phenotype, and had positive effects on expression levels of interleukin (IL)-12 and costimulatory molecules. Coculture of allogeneic T cells with ovalbumin (OVA)-pulsed DLL1-DCs enhanced T cell proliferative responses and promoted Th1 cell differentiation. Furthermore, adoptive transfer of OVA-stimulated DLL1-DCs into asthmatic mice alleviated the cardinal features of allergic asthma, including immunoglobulin E (IgE) production, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), airway inflammation, and production of Th2-type cytokines. Notably, enhanced levels of the Th1-biased IgG2a response and interferon (IFN)-γ production were observed in these mice. Taken together, these data indicate that DLL1-DCs promoted Th1 cell development to alter the Th1/Th2 ratio and ameliorate Th2-mediated allergic asthma in mice.
INTRODUCTION: Sunitinib is an oral inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor that is used to treat a variety of cancer. There are limited data regarding the effect of sunitinib on diabetes. In the liver, Notch signaling plays an important role in liver tissue development and homeostasis and its dysfunction is associated with liver pathol-ogies. The aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of sunitinib on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic liver in mice models.MATERIAL AND METHODS: An experimental diabetes mellitus (DM) model was created in 28 male CD-1 mice. Twenty-eight male CD-1 mice divided in four groups (n = 7 each) were used; control mice (C), control mice treated with sunitinib (C + S), diabetic mice (DM), and diabetic mice treated with sunitinib (DM + S) for four weeks. The histopathological changes in the liver were examined by histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. Immunoreactivity of Notch1, Jagged1, DLL-1 and VEGF were evaluated in control and diabetic mice after sunitinib treatment.RESULTS: The significant morphological changes in the liver were mostly seen in hepatocytes that were hyper-trophied in the DM mice, with an increased amount of eosinophilic granules; moreover, some hepatocytes contained empty vacuole-like structures. The livers of the DM mice revealed increased deposition of collagen fibers. After sunitinib treatment the hepatocytes and hepatic lobules had almost similar morphology to control mice. The immunoreactivities of Notch1, Jagged1, DLL-1 and VEGF in hepatocytes were significantly lower in the DM group when compared with the C, DM + S and C + S group treated with sunitinib.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that sunitinib effectively protects the liver from diabetes-induced damage through the inhibition of the Notch pathway.
Breaking symmetry in populations of uniform cells, to induce adoption of an alternative cell fate, is an essential developmental mechanism. Similarly, domain and boundary establishment are crucial steps to forming organs during development. Notch signaling is a pathway ideally suited to mediating precise patterning cues, as both receptors and ligands are membrane-bound and can thus act as a precise switch to toggle cell fates on or off. Fine-tuning of signaling by positive or negative feedback mechanisms dictate whether signaling results in lateral induction or lateral inhibition, respectively, allowing Notch to either induce entire regions of cell specification, or dictate binary fate choices. Furthermore, pathway activity is modulated by Fringe modification of receptors or ligands, co-expression of receptors with ligands, mode of ligand presentation, and cell surface area in contact. In this review, we describe how Notch signaling is fine-tuned to mediate lateral induction or lateral inhibition cues, and discuss examples from C.elegans, D. melanogaster and M. musculus. Identifying the cellular machinery dictating the choice between lateral induction and lateral inhibition highlights the versatility of the Notch signaling pathway in development.
BACKGROUND: The Notch family of proteins plays a vital role in determining cell fates, such as proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. It has been shown that Notch1 and its ligands, Dll1 and Jag1, are overexpressed in many glioma cell lines and primary human gliomas. The roles of Notch1 in some cancers have been firmly established, and recent data implicate that it plays important roles in glioma cell fate decisions. This paper focuses on devising a specific theoretical framework that incorporates Dll1, Jag1, and Fringe in Notch1 signaling pathway to explore their functional roles of these proteins in glioma cells in the tumorigenesis and progression of human gliomas, and to study how glioma cell fate decisions are modulated by both trans-activation and cis-inhibition.RESULTS: This paper presents a computational model for Notch1 signaling pathway in glioma cells. Based on the bifurcation analysis of the model, we show that how the glioma cell fate decisions are modulated by both trans-activation and cis-inhibition mediated by the Fringe protein, providing insight into the design and control principles of the Notch signaling system and the gliomas.CONCLUSIONS: This paper presents a computational model for Notch1 signaling pathway in glioma cells based on intertwined dynamics with cis-inhibition and trans-activation involving the proteins Notch1, Dll1, Jag1, and Fringe. The results show that how the glioma cell fate transitions are performed by the Notch1 signaling. Transition from grade III ∼ IV with significantly high Notch1 to grade I ∼ II with high Notch1, and then to normal cells by repressing the Fringe levels or decreasing the strength of enhancement induced by Fringe.
Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), a cancer characterized by skeletal muscle features, is the most common soft-tissue sarcoma of childhood. While low- and intermediate-risk groups have seen improved outcomes, high-risk patients still face a 5-year survival rate of <30%, a statistic that has not changed in over 40 years. Understanding the biologic underpinnings of RMS is critical. The developmental pathways of Notch and YAP have been identified as potent but independent oncogenic signals that support the embryonal variant of RMS (eRMS). Here, the cross-talk between these pathways and the impact on eRMS tumorigenesis is reported. Using human eRMS cells grown as three-dimensional (3D) rhabdospheres, which enriches in stem cells, it was found that Notch signaling transcriptionally upregulates YAP1 gene expression and YAP activity. Reciprocally, YAP transcriptionally upregulates the Notch ligand genes JAG1 and DLL1 and the core Notch transcription factor RBPJ This bidirectional circuit boosts expression of key stem cell genes, including SOX2, which is functionally required for eRMS spheres. Silencing this circuit for therapeutic purposes may be challenging, because the inhibition of one node (e.g., pharmacologic Notch blockade) can be rescued by upregulation of another (constitutive YAP expression). Instead, dual inhibition of Notch and YAP is necessary. Finally, supporting the existence of this circuit beyond a model system, nuclear Notch and YAP protein expression are correlated in human eRMS tumors, and YAP suppression in vivo decreases Notch signaling and SOX2 expression.Implications: This study identifies a novel oncogenic signaling circuit driving eRMS stemness and tumorigenesis, and provides evidence and rationale for combination therapies co-targeting Notch and YAP. Mol Cancer Res; 15(12); 1777-91. ©2017 AACR.
Pituitary adenomas are among the most frequent intracranial neoplasms and treatment depends on tumor subtype and clinical features. Unfortunately, non responder cases occur, then new molecular targets are needed. Notch system component expression and activation data are scarce in pituitary tumorigenesis, we therefore aimed to characterize Notch system in pituitary tumors of different histotype. In human pituitary adenomas we showed NOTCH1-4 receptors, JAGGED1 ligand and HES1 target gene expression with positive correlations between NOTCH1,2,4 and HES1, and NOTCH3 and JAGGED1 denoting Notch system activation in a subset of tumors. Importantly, NOTCH3 positive cells were higher in corticotropinomas and somatotropinomas compared to non functioning adenomas. In accordance, Notch activation was evidenced in AtT20 tumor corticotropes, with higher levels of NOTCH1-3 active domains, Jagged1 and Hes1 compared to normal pituitary. In the prolactinoma cell lines GH3 and MMQ, in vivo GH3 tumors and normal glands, Notch system activation was lower than in corticotropes. In MMQ cells only the NOTCH2 active domain was increased, whereas NOTCH1 active domain was higher in GH3 tumors. High levels of Jagged1 and Dll1 were found solely in GH3 cells, and Hes1, Hey1 and Hey2 were expressed in a model dependent pattern. Prolactinomas harbored by lacDrd2KO mice expressed high levels of NOTCH1 active domain and reduced Hes1. We show a differential expression of Notch system components in tumoral and normal pituitaries and specific Notch system involvement depending on adenoma histotype, with higher activation in corticotropinomas. These data suggest that targeting Notch pathway may benefit non responder pituitary adenomas.
Background: Disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) regulates neurogenesis and is a genetic risk factor for major psychiatric disorders. However, how DISC1 dysfunction affects neurogenesis and cell cycle progression at the molecular level is still unknown. Here, we investigated the role of DISC1 in regulating proliferation, migration, cell cycle progression and apoptosis in mouse neural stem/progenitor cells (MNSPCs) in vitro. Methods: MNSPCs were isolated and cultured from mouse fetal hippocampi. Retroviral vectors or siRNAs were used to manipulate DISC1 expression in MNSPCs. Proliferation, migration, cell cycle progression and apoptosis of altered MNSPCs were analyzed in cell proliferation assays (MTS), transwell system and flow cytometry. A neurogenesis specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) array was used to identify genes downstream of DISC1, and functional analysis was performed through transfection of expression plasmids and siRNAs. Results: Loss of DISC1 reduced proliferation and migration of MNSPCs, while an increase in DISC1 led to increased proliferation and migration. Meanwhile, an increase in the proportion of cells in G0/G1 phase was concomitant with reduced levels of DISC1, but significant changes were not observed in the number MNSPCs undergoing apoptosis. Paired box gene 5 (Pax5), sex determining region Y-box 2 (Sox2), delta-like1 (Dll1) and Neurogenin2 (Neurog2) emerged as candidate molecules downstream of DISC1, and rescue experiments demonstrated that increased or decreased expression of either molecule regulated proliferation and migration in DISC1-altered MNSPCs. Conclusion: These results suggest that Pax5, Sox2, Dll1 and Neurog2 mediate DISC1 activity in MNSPC proliferation and migration.
Notch1 signaling regulates B and T lymphocyte development and also in vitro promotes antibody secretion upon B cell activation. However, it is still unclear about the role of Notch1 in antibody production upon in vitro and in vivo mixture lymphocytes activation. We first showed that Notch1 expressed in LPS-activated CD19hi B cells and CD19cre mediated Notch1 knock-down in LPS-activated B cells. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Notch1 knock-down in B cells reduced antibody production in LPS-stimulated B cells but did not affect antibody production in LPS-stimulated splenocytes and in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) mice. Importantly, Notch1 ligands Dll1 and Jag1 expressed in B cells and pre-coated Notch1 protein promotes Notch1-knocked down B cells to produce antibody in LPS-stimulated B cells suggesting that Notch1 in other cells may promote antibody production by binding its ligands Dll1 and Jag1 in B cells. Together, our results suggest that both Notch1 and its ligands in B cells play an important role in antibody production.
The function of microRNA-34a (miR-34a) in transdifferentiation of glioma stem cells (GSCs) into vascular endothelial cells (VECs) was explored by focusing on Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1). MiR-34a mimics was transfected into CD133 + glioma cell U251. The angiogenesis feature of miR-34a transfected U251 cells was investigated and the expressions of CD31, CD34, Vwf, Notch 1, and Dll1 were quantified. Length of branching vessel-like structures in the miR-34a transfected U251 cells was significantly higher than control cells. The VEC feature of miR-34a overexpressed U251 cells was further confirmed by the expressions of CD31, CD34, and vWF. Transfection of miR-34a decreased the expression of Notch 1 and Dll1. Furthermore, the miR-34a overexpression-enhanced tube formation of GSCs was suppressed when the decreased expression of Dll1 was restored. The current study highlighted the potential of miR-34a as an inducer in GSCs' transdifferentiation into VECs by targeting Dll1.
INTRODUCTION: Notch signaling is amongst the key intrinsic mechanisms regulating satellite cell fate, promoting the transition of activated satellite cells to highly proliferative myogenic progenitor cells and preventing their premature differentiation. Although much is known about the biochemical milieu that drives myogenic progression, less is known about the spatial cues providing spatiotemporal control of skeletal muscle repair in the context of Notch signaling.METHODS: Using a murine injury model, we quantified in vivo biophysical changes that occur within the skeletal muscle during regeneration. Employing tunable poly(ethylene glycol)-based hydrogel substrates, we modeled the measured changes in bulk stiffness in the context of Notch ligand signaling, which are present in the regenerative milieu at the time of injury.RESULTS: Following injury, there is a transient increase in the bulk stiffness of the tibialis anterior muscle that may be explained in part by changes in extracellular matrix deposition. When presented to primary myoblasts, Jagged-1, Jagged-2, and Dll1 in a tethered format elicited greater degrees of Notch activity compared to their soluble form. Only tethered Jagged-1 effects were tuned by substrate stiffness, with the greatest Notch activation observed on stiff hydrogels matching the stiffness of regenerating muscle. When exposed to tethered Jagged-1 on stiff hydrogels, fewer primary myoblasts expressed myogenin, and pharmacological inhibitor studies suggest this effect is Notch and RhoA dependent.CONCLUSION: Our study proposes that tethered Jagged-1 presented in the context of transient tissue stiffening serves to tune Notch activity in myogenic progenitors during skeletal muscle repair and delay differentiation.
We report the chemical vapor deposition (CVD) of dual-functional polymer films for the specific and orthogonal immobilization of two biomolecules (notch ligand delta-like 1 (DLL1) and an RGD-peptide) that govern the fate of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. The composition of the CVD polymer and thus the biomolecule ratio can be tailored to investigate and optimize the influence of the relative surface concentrations of biomolecules on stem cell behavior. Prior to cell experiments, all surfaces were characterized by infrared reflection adsorption spectroscopy, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy to confirm the presence of both biomolecules. In a proof-of-principle stem cell culture study, we show that all polymer surfaces are cytocompatible and that the proliferation of the hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells is predominantly influenced by the surface concentration of immobilized DLL1.
Otitis media (OM) is a major cause of morbidity in pediatric and adult patients. This inflammatory condition is characterized by mucous cell hyperplasia that is thought to produce mucins from the middle ear mucosa. We are interested in the role of Notch signalling pathway in this inflammatory process. Using an acute otitis media (AOM) mouse model through injection of Streptococcus Pneumoniae into the middle ear, histopathologic examination and quantitative RT-PCR, acute inflammation with the thickness of mucosa, Goblet cell hyperplasia, and cilia loss were determined and gene expression related to the Notch signaling pathway were evaluated. Upregulation of the mucous cell markers, Argr2 and Muc5AC, and downregulation of the cilia cell marker, Foxj1 and Dnai2, were observed in AOM. In addition, genes encoding Notch receptors and ligands (Notch1, Notch2, Notch3, Notch4 and Dll1) and the Notch target genes (Hes1, Hes5, Hey1, NRARP) in AOM decreased significantly. The expression of the Notch1 and Jagged1 also showed down-regulation throughout the mouse middle ear epithelium. Taken together, this study suggests that downregulation of the Notch signaling pathway is involved in the mucosa hyperplasia during AOM.
Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and Notch receptors regulate bone formation by governing the function of osteoblastic cells. To determine whether PTH interacts with Notch signaling as a way to control osteoblast function, we tested the effects of PTH on Notch activity in osteoblast- and osteocyte-enriched cultures. Notch signaling was activated in osteoblast-enriched cells from wild-type C57BL/6J mice following exposure to the Notch ligand Delta-like (Dll)1 or by the transient transfection of the Notch intracellular domain (NICD), the transcriptionally active fragment of Notch1. To induce Notch signaling in osteocyte-enriched cultures, a murine model of Notch2 gain-of-function was used. PTH opposed the stimulatory effects of Dll1 on Hey1, Hey2 and HeyL mRNA levels in osteoblast-enriched cells and suppressed the expression of selected Notch target genes in osteocyte-enriched cultures, either under basal conditions or in the context of Notch2 gain-of-function. Induction of Notch signaling in osteocytes did not alter the inhibitory effect of PTH on Sost expression, but reduced the stimulation of Tnfsf11 mRNA levels by PTH. In agreement with these in vitro observations, male mice administered with PTH displayed suppressed Hey1 and HeyL expression in parietal bones. Transactivation experiments with a Notch reporter construct and electrophoretic mobility shift assays in osteoblast-enriched cells suggest that PTH acts by decreasing the capacity of Rbpjκ to bind to DNA. In conclusion, downregulation of Notch in osteoblasts and osteocytes may represent a mechanism contributing to the anabolic effects of PTH in bone.
Notch is an important pathway in that it regulates cell-to-cell signal transduction, which plays an essential role in skeletal remodeling. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)9 has been regarded as one of the most efficient BMPs by which to induce osteogenic differentiation in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Understanding the interaction between Notch and BMP9 signaling is a critical issue for optimizing the application of MSCs and BMPs in bone tissue engineering. In the present study, we investigated the role of Notch signaling in the BMP9‑induced osteogenic differentiation of MSCs. Our data demonstrated that Notch signaling obviously enhanced BMP9‑induced osteogenic differentiation in MSCs in vitro and in vivo. Notch signaling augmented the activity of BMP9‑induced BMP/Smad signaling and increased the gene expression of essential osteogenic factors induced by BMP9 in MSCs, such as runt‑related transcription factor 2 (Runx2), type I collagen (Colla1) and inhibitor of differentiation (Id)1. We also found that Notch signaling promoted the expression of activin‑like kinase 2 (ALK2) induced by BMP9, and the inhibitory effect of dnALK2 on BMP9‑induced osteogenic differentiation was rescued by constitutive overexpression of Delta‑like 1 (DLL1). Notch signaling also exhibited an apparent effect on the proliferation of mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs) during BMP9‑induced osteogenic differentiation. These results indicate that Notch plays a significant role in mediating BMP9‑induced osteogenic differentiation in MSCs, which may be partly regulated by upregulation of the expression of ALK2.
BACKGROUND: In mammalian intestines, Notch signaling plays a critical role in mediating cell fate decisions; it promotes the absorptive (or enterocyte) cell fate, while concomitantly inhibiting the secretory cell fate (i.e. goblet, Paneth and enteroendocrine cells). We recently reported that intestinal-specific Kaiso overexpressing mice (Kaiso Tg ) exhibited chronic intestinal inflammation and had increased numbers of all three secretory cell types, hinting that Kaiso might regulate Notch signaling in the gut. However, Kaiso's precise role in Notch signaling and whether the Kaiso Tg secretory cell fate phenotype was linked to Kaiso-induced inflammation had yet to be elucidated.METHODS: Intestines from 3-month old Non-transgenic and Kaiso Tg mice were "Swiss" rolled and analysed for the expression of Notch1, Dll-1, Jagged-1, and secretory cell markers by immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence. To evaluate inflammation, morphological analyses and myeloperoxidase assays were performed on intestines from 3-month old Kaiso Tg and control mice. Notch1, Dll-1 and Jagged-1 expression were also assessed in stable Kaiso-depleted colon cancer cells and isolated intestinal epithelial cells using real time PCR and western blotting. To assess Kaiso binding to the DLL1, JAG1 and NOTCH1 promoter regions, chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed on three colon cancer cell lines.RESULTS: Here we demonstrate that Kaiso promotes secretory cell hyperplasia independently of Kaiso-induced inflammation. Moreover, Kaiso regulates several components of the Notch signaling pathway in intestinal cells, namely, Dll-1, Jagged-1 and Notch1. Notably, we found that in Kaiso Tg mice intestines, Notch1 and Dll-1 expression are significantly reduced while Jagged-1 expression is increased. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that Kaiso associates with the DLL1 and JAG1 promoter regions in a methylation-dependent manner in colon carcinoma cell lines, suggesting that these Notch ligands are putative Kaiso target genes.CONCLUSION: Here, we provide evidence that Kaiso's effects on intestinal secretory cell fates precede the development of intestinal inflammation in Kaiso Tg mice. We also demonstrate that Kaiso inhibits the expression of Dll-1, which likely contributes to the secretory cell phenotype observed in our transgenic mice. In contrast, Kaiso promotes Jagged-1 expression, which may have implications in Notch-mediated colon cancer progression.
Pituitary adenoma (PA) is a common type of benign tumor of the pituitary gland that is characterized by specific signs and symptoms, primarily associated with hypersecretion of pituitary glycoprotein hormones (thyroid-stimulating, growth and adrenocorticotrophic hormones, and prolactin). Surgery is the first-line treatment, although postoperative residual tissues/cells and subsequent recurrence remain notable complications. Gene therapy is an effective approach for treatment, as previous studies have demonstrated that the Notch signaling pathway participates in the pathogenesis of PA. The focus of the present study was on the associations between the expression of the Notch1 receptor and its ligands δ-like canonical Notch ligand (Dll) 1, Dll3 and Dll4 in patients with PA. Using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot analyses, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to provide a description of the differential expression of the Notch1 receptor and its ligands Dll1, Dll3, and Dll4 in various types of human PA at the mRNA and protein levels. The results of the present study demonstrated that Notch1 protein expression was positively correlated with Dll4 protein expression, but negatively correlated with Dll3 protein expression, indicating synergistic effects between the Notch1 receptor and Dll4 ligand. Furthermore, the Dll3 ligand may be an inhibitor of the Notch1 receptor, indicating an antagonistic association between Notch1 and the Dll3 ligand. These results have identified a potential target for the treatment of patients with PA.
Author information:(1)Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 119991 Russia.(2)Almazov Federal North-West Medical Research Center, St. Petersburg, 197341 Russia.(3)Postovsky Institute of Organic Synthesis, Russian Academy of Sciences (Ural Branch), Yekaterinburg, 620990 Russia.(4)abelyavs@yahoo.com.
BACKGROUND: Neuroblastoma is the most common extracranial solid malignancy in childhood, responsible for 15% of all pediatric cancer deaths. It is an heterogeneous disease that does not always respond to classical therapy; so the identification of new and specific molecular targets to improve existing therapy is needed. We have previously demonstrated the involvement of the Notch pathway in the onset and progression of neuroblastoma. In this study we further investigated the role of Notch signaling and identified Delta-like 1 (DLL1) as a novel molecular target in neuroblastoma cells with a high degree of MYCN amplification, which is a major oncogenic driver in neuroblastoma. The possibility to act on DLL1 expression levels by using microRNAs (miRNAs) was assessed.METHODS: DLL1 mRNA and protein expression levels were measured in three different neuroblastoma cell lines using quantitative real-time PCR and Western Blot analysis, respectively. Activation of the Notch pathway as a result of increased levels of DLL1 was analyzed by Immunofluorescence and Western Blot methods. In silico tools revealed the possibility to act on DLL1 expression levels with miRNAs, in particular with the miRNA-34 family. Neuroblastoma cells were transfected with miRNA-34 family members, and the effect of miRNAs transfection on DLL1 mRNA expression levels, on cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis was measured.RESULTS: In this study, the DLL1 ligand was identified as the Notch pathway component highly expressed in neuroblastoma cells with MYCN amplification. In silico analysis demonstrated that DLL1 is one of the targets of miRNA-34 family members that maps on chromosome regions that are frequently deregulated or deleted in neuroblastoma. We studied the possibility to use miRNAs to target DLL1. Among all miRNA-34 family members, miRNA-34b is able to significantly downregulate DLL1 mRNA expression levels, to arrest cell proliferation and to induce neuronal differentiation in malignant neuroblastoma cells.CONCLUSIONS: Targeted therapies have emerged as new strategies for cancer treatment. This study identified the Notch ligand DLL1 as a novel and attractive molecular target in childhood neuroblastoma and its results could help to devise a targeted therapy using miRNAs.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are effective in treating several pathologies. We and others have demonstrated that hypoxia or hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1α) stabilization improves several MSC functions, including cell adhesion, migration, and proliferation, thereby increasing their therapeutic potential. To further explore the mechanisms induced by HIF-1α in MSCs, we studied its relationship with Notch signaling and observed that overexpression of HIF-1α in MSCs increased protein levels of the Notch ligands Jagged 1-2 and Delta-like (Dll)1, Dll3, and Dll4 and potentiated Notch signaling only when this pathway was activated. Crosstalk between HIF and Notch resulted in Notch-dependent migration and spreading of MSCs, which was abolished by γ-secretase inhibition. However, the HIF-1-induced increase in MSC proliferation was independent of Notch signaling. The ubiquitin family member, small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO), has important functions in many cellular processes and increased SUMO1 protein levels have been reported in hypoxia. To investigate the potential involvement of SUMOylation in HIF/Notch crosstalk, we measured general SUMOylation levels and observed increased SUMOylation in HIF-1-expressing MSCs. Moreover, proliferation and migration of MSCs were reduced in the presence of a SUMOylation inhibitor, and this effect was particularly robust in HIF-MSCs. Immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated SUMOylation of the intracellular domain of Notch1 (N1ICD) in HIF-1-expressing MSCs, which contributed to Notch pathway activation and resulted in increased levels of N1ICD nuclear translocation as assessed by subcellular fractionation. SUMOylation of N1ICD was also observed in HEK293T cells with stabilized HIF-1α expression, suggesting that this is a common mechanism in eukaryotic cells. In summary, we describe, for the first time, SUMOylation of N1ICD, which is potentiated by HIF signaling. These phenomena could be relevant for the therapeutic effects of MSCs in hypoxia or under conditions of HIF stabilization.
Myogenic stem cells are a promising avenue for the treatment of muscular disorders. Freshly isolated muscle stem cells have a remarkable engraftment ability in vivo, but their cell number is limited. Current conventional culture conditions do not allow muscle stem cells to expand in vitro with their bona fide engraftment efficiency, requiring the improvement of culture procedures for achieving successful cell-therapy for muscle disorders. Here we expanded mouse muscle stem cells and human myoblasts with Notch ligands, DLL1, DLL4, and JAG1 to activate Notch signaling in vitro and to investigate whether these cells could retain their engraftment efficiency. Notch signaling promotes the expansion of Pax7+MyoD- mouse muscle stem-like cells and inhibits differentiation even after passage in vitro. Treatment with Notch ligands induced the Notch target genes and generated PAX7+MYOD- stem-like cells from human myoblasts previously cultured on conventional culture plates. However, cells treated with Notch ligands exhibit a stem cell-like state in culture, yet their regenerative ability was less than that of freshly isolated cells in vivo and was comparable to that of the control. These unexpected findings suggest that artificial maintenance of Notch signaling alone is insufficient for improving regenerative capacity of mouse and human donor-muscle cells and suggest that combinatorial events are critical to achieve muscle stem cell and myoblast engraftment potential.
Pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMFs) have been used to treat bone diseases, particularly nonunion healing. Although it is known that PEMFs promote the osteogenic differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs), to date PEMF molecular mechanisms remain not clearly elucidated. The Notch signalling is a highly conserved pathway that regulates cell fate decisions and skeletal development. The aim of this study was to investigate if the known PEMF-induced osteogenic effects may involve the modulation of the Notch pathway. To this purpose, during in vitro osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow hMSCs in the absence and in the presence of PEMFs, osteogenic markers (alkaline phosphatase activity, osteocalcin and matrix mineralization), the messenger ribonucleic acid expression of osteogenic transcription factors (Runx2, Dlx5, Osterix) as well as of Notch receptors (Notch1-4), their ligands (Jagged1, Dll1 and Dll4) and nuclear target genes (Hes1, Hes5, Hey1, Hey2) were investigated. PEMFs stimulated all osteogenic markers and increased the expression of Notch4, Dll4, Hey1, Hes1 and Hes5 in osteogenic medium compared to control. In the presence of DAPT and SAHM1, used as Notch pathway inhibitors, the expression of the osteogenic markers, including Runx2, Dlx5, Osterix, as well as Hes1 and Hes5 were significantly inhibited, both in unexposed and PEMF-exposed hMSCs. These results suggest that activation of Notch pathway is required for PEMFs-stimulated osteogenic differentiation. These new findings may be useful to improve autologous cell-based regeneration of bone defects in orthopaedics.
In dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), adverse myocardial remodeling is essential, potentially involving Notch signaling. We hypothesized that secreted Notch ligands would be dysregulated in DCM. We measured plasma levels of the canonical Delta-like Notch ligand 1 (DLL1) and non-canonical Notch ligands Delta-like 1 homologue (DLK1) and periostin (POSN) in 102 DCM patients and 32 matched controls. Myocardial mRNA and protein levels of DLL1, DLK1, and POSN were measured in 25 explanted hearts. Our main findings were: (i) Circulating levels of DLL1 and POSN were higher in patients with severe DCM and correlated with the degree of diastolic dysfunction and (ii) right ventricular tissue expressions of DLL1, DLK1, and POSN were oppositely associated with cardiac function indices, as high DLL1 and DLK1 expression corresponded to more preserved and high POSN expression to more deteriorated cardiac function. DLL1, DLK1, and POSN are dysregulated in end-stage DCM, possibly mediating different effects on cardiac function.
© 2017 Poultry Science Association Inc.
The glycosyltransferase EOGT transfers O-GlcNAc to a consensus site in epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats of a limited number of secreted and membrane proteins, including Notch receptors. In EOGT-deficient cells, the binding of DLL1 and DLL4, but not JAG1, canonical Notch ligands was reduced, and ligand-induced Notch signaling was impaired. Mutagenesis of O-GlcNAc sites on NOTCH1 also resulted in decreased binding of DLL4. EOGT functions were investigated in retinal angiogenesis that depends on Notch signaling. Global or endothelial cell-specific deletion of Eogt resulted in defective retinal angiogenesis, with a mild phenotype similar to that caused by reduced Notch signaling in retina. Combined deficiency of different Notch1 mutant alleles exacerbated the abnormalities in Eogt-/- retina, and Notch target gene expression was decreased in Eogt-/-endothelial cells. Thus, O-GlcNAc on EGF repeats of Notch receptors mediates ligand-induced Notch signaling required in endothelial cells for optimal vascular development.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and lethal primary intracranial tumor. Actin cytoskeleton regulator Arp2/3 complex stimulates glioma cell motility and migration, and thus triggers tumor invasion. However, little is known regarding the role of actin cytoskeleton in maintaining the stem cell phenotype. Here, we showed that Arp2/3 complex improved stem cell phenotype maintenance through sustaining the activated Notch signaling. ShRNA targeting Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1) decreased CD133 and Nestin expression, and impaired the self-renewal ability of CD133+ U87-MG and U251-MG glioma cells, indicating DLL1/Notch1 signaling promoted stem cell phenotype maintenance. Interestingly, inhibiting Arp2/3 complex also induced the similar effect of shDLL1. Silencing DLL1 in the Arp2/3 inhibited CD133+ cells did not further abrogate the stem cell phenotype, suggesting DLL1 function requires Arp2/3 complex in glioma initiating cells (GICs). However, exogenous soluble DLL1 (sDLL1) instead of endogenous DLL1 rescued the Arp2/3 inhibition-induced stem cell phenotype suppression. The underlying mechanism was that Arp2/3 inhibition impeded DLL1 vesicular transport from cytoplasm to cell membrane, which resulted in DLL1 unable to activate Notch pathway. Furthermore, we illustrated that Arp2/3 inhibition abolished the tumorigenicity of CD133+ U87-MG neurosphere cells in the intracranial model. These findings suggested that cytoskeleton maintained the stem cell phenotype in GBM, which provide novel therapeutic strategy that anti-invasive targeted therapies may help eliminate GICs.
OBJECTIVE: The role of the Notch pathway has already been identified as a crucial regulator of bone development. However, the Notch signaling pathway has gone largely unexplored during osseointegration. This study aims to investigate the role of Notch signaling on osteogenic differentiation of rat derived bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) on sandblasted, large-grit, acid-etched (SLA) treated Ti disks.METHODS: The involved target genes in Notch pathways were identified by in vitro microarray and bioinformatics analyses with or without osteogenic induction. Adhesion, proliferation, and osteogenic related assay were subsequently conducted with target gene shRNA treatment.RESULTS: We found that 11 genes in the Notch signaling pathway were differentially expressed after osteogenic induction on SLA-treated Ti disks, which included up-regulated genes (Notch2, Dll1, Dll3, Ncstn, Ncor2, and Hes5) and down-regulated genes (Notch3, Lfng, Mfng, Jag2 and Maml2). With Notch3 shRNA treatment, the adhesion and proliferation of BMSCs on SLA-treated Ti disks were inhibited. Moreover, the expression levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), osteocalcin (OCN), calcium deposition, BMP2 and Runx2 increased significantly compared with that observed in control groups, suggesting that the function of Notch3 was inhibitory in the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs on SLA-treated titanium.CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition Notch3 can enhance osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs on SLA-treated Ti disks, which potentially provides a gene target for improving osseointegration.
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) remains the only treatment option for several severe hematological malignancies. The development of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a common complication of the procedure and results when donor T cells become activated against recipient-specific antigens. The factors that drive the alloreactive T cell response are not completely understood. In this issue of the JCI, Chung and colleagues present evidence that stromal cells within lymphoid tissue express the Notch ligands Delta-like 1/4 (DLL1 and DLL4), which in turn directly activate T cells. Importantly, inhibition of DLL1/DLL4-mediated Notch signaling in murine HSCT models dramatically reduced GVHD and improved graft survival.
Alloimmune T cell responses induce graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), a serious complication of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (allo-BMT). Although Notch signaling mediated by Delta-like 1/4 (DLL1/4) Notch ligands has emerged as a major regulator of GVHD pathogenesis, little is known about the timing of essential Notch signals and the cellular source of Notch ligands after allo-BMT. Here, we have shown that critical DLL1/4-mediated Notch signals are delivered to donor T cells during a short 48-hour window after transplantation in a mouse allo-BMT model. Stromal, but not hematopoietic, cells were the essential source of Notch ligands during in vivo priming of alloreactive T cells. GVHD could be prevented by selective inactivation of Dll1 and Dll4 in subsets of fibroblastic stromal cells that were derived from chemokine Ccl19-expressing host cells, including fibroblastic reticular cells and follicular dendritic cells. However, neither T cell recruitment into secondary lymphoid organs nor initial T cell activation was affected by Dll1/4 loss. Thus, we have uncovered a pathogenic function for fibroblastic stromal cells in alloimmune reactivity that can be dissociated from their homeostatic functions. Our results reveal what we believe to be a previously unrecognized Notch-mediated immunopathogenic role for stromal cell niches in secondary lymphoid organs after allo-BMT and define a framework of early cellular and molecular interactions that regulate T cell alloimmunity.
During somitogenesis, pairs of epithelial somites form in a progressive manner, budding off from the anterior end of the pre-somitic mesoderm (PSM) with a strict species-specific periodicity. The periodicity of the process is regulated by a molecular oscillator, known as the "segmentation clock," acting in the PSM cells. This clock drives the oscillatory patterns of gene expression across the PSM in a posterior-anterior direction. These so-called clock genes are key components of three signaling pathways: Wnt, Notch, and fibroblast growth factor (FGF). In addition, Notch signaling is essential for synchronizing intracellular oscillations in neighboring cells. We recently gained insight into how this may be mechanistically regulated. Upon ligand activation, the Notch receptor is cleaved, releasing the intracellular domain (NICD), which moves to the nucleus and regulates gene expression. NICD is highly labile, and its phosphorylation-dependent turnover acts to restrict Notch signaling. The profile of NICD production (and degradation) in the PSM is known to be oscillatory and to resemble that of a clock gene. We recently reported that both the Notch receptor and the Delta ligand, which mediate intercellular coupling, themselves exhibit dynamic expression at both the mRNA and protein levels. In this article, we describe the sensitive detection methods and detailed image analysis tools that we used, in combination with the computational modeling that we designed, to extract and overlay expression data from distinct points in the expression cycle. This allowed us to construct a spatio-temporal picture of the dynamic expression profile for the receptor, the ligand, and the Notch target clock genes throughout an oscillation cycle. Here, we describe the protocols used to generate and culture the PSM explants, as well as the procedure to stain for the mRNA or protein. We also explain how the confocal images were subsequently analyzed and temporally ordered computationally to generate ordered sequences of clock expression snapshots, hereafter defined as "kymographs," for the visualization of the spatiotemporal expression of Delta-like1 (Dll1) and Notch1 throughout the PSM.
MiR-34a-5p has been implicated in the tumorigenesis and progression of several types of cancer. However, the role of miR-34a-5p in osteosarcoma (OS) remains largely unknown. This study was performed in two multi-chemosensitive (G-292 and MG63.2) and two resistant (SJSA-1 and MNNG/HOS) OS cell lines. MiR-34a-5p promotes OS multi-chemoresistance via its repression of the Delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1) gene, the ligand of the Notch pathway, and thus negatively correlates with OS chemoresistance. The siRNA-mediated repression of the DLL1 gene suppressed cell apoptosis and de-sensitized G-292 and MG63.2 cells, while overexpression of DLL1 sensitized SJSA-1 and MNNG/HOS cells to drug-induced cell death. In agreement with the changes in the drug-induced cell death, the activity of the ATF2/ATF3/ATF4 signaling pathway was significantly altered by a forced reversal of miR-34a-5p or DLL1 levels in OS cells. DLL1 is a target of miR-34a-5p and negatively regulates the multi-chemoresistance of OS. This study suggested that miR-34a-5p, DLL1 and the ATF2/ATF3/ATF4 signaling pathway-associated genes are the potential diagnostic and/or therapeutic targets for an effective chemotherapy of OS. Our results also provide novel insights into the effective chemotherapy for OS patients.
BACKGROUND: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are correlated with the initiation, chemoresistance and relapse of tumors. Notch pathway has been reported to function in CSCs maintenance, but whether it is involved in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) CSCs maintaining stemness remain unclear. This study aims to explore the effect of Notch pathway on stemness of CSCs in RCC and the underlying mechanisms.METHODS: The CD133+/CD24+ cells were isolated from RCC ACHN and Caki-1 cell line using Magnetic-activated cell sorting and identified by Flow cytometry analysis. RT-PCR and immunoblot analyses were used for determining the stemness maker expression. The effect of Notch pathway on function of CSCs was assessed by self-renewal ability, chemosensitivity, invasive and migratory ability tumorigenicity in vivo using soft agar colony formation assay, sphere-forming assay, MTT assay, Transwell assay.RESULTS: Here, we found that the sorted CD133+/CD24+cells possessed elevated stemness maker CTR2, BCL-2, MDR1, OCT-4, KLF4, compared with parental cells, as well as enhanced self-renewal ability, stronger resistance to cisplatin and sorafenib, increased invasion and migration, and higher tumorigenesis in vivo, suggesting the CD133+/CD24+ cells have the stem-like characteristics of CSCs and thus identified as RCC CSCs. Then the enhanced notch1, notch2, Jagged1, Jagged2, DLL1 and DLL4 expression were detected in RCC CSCs and blockage of Notch1 or notch2 using pharmacological inhibitor MRK-003 or its endogenous inhibitor Numb resulted in loss of its stemness features: self-renewal, chemoresistance, invasive and migratory potential, and tumorigenesis in vivo. Moreover, it is confirmed that overexpression of notch1 up-regulated CXCR4 inRCC CSCs and augmented SDF-1-induced chemotaxis in RCC CSCs in vitro, which could be rescued when treatment of CXCR4 inhibitor, suggesting that notch signaling promotes the chemotaxis of RCC CSCs by SDF-1/CXCR4 axis.CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide a new mechanism of RCC CSCs maintaining stemness via notch pathway as well as a potential therapeutic target in human RCC.
Author information:(1)Laboratory of Stem Cell Differentiation, Department of Cell Growth and Differentiation, Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA), Kyoto University, 53 Shogoin Kawahara-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan. Electronic address: kohei@cira.kyoto-u.ac.jp.(2)Department of Life Science Frontier, CiRA, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.(3)Laboratory of Stem Cell Differentiation, Department of Cell Growth and Differentiation, Center for iPS Cell Research and Application (CiRA), Kyoto University, 53 Shogoin Kawahara-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Waseda University, Tokyo 169-8555, Japan.(5)Laboratory of Stem Cell Medicine, Department of Cell Growth and Differentiation, CiRA, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.
The function of metformin in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) remains a controversial topic because studies are increasingly focusing on epidemiologic features. We examined Notch1/Hes1 signaling in CRC with DM (DM-CRC) and investigated alterations in signaling caused by metformin treatment. For this purpose, information on pathological characteristics was collected from each patient. The proliferation of epithelium labeled with proliferating cell nuclear antigen and the differentiation of goblet cells were investigated using immunohistochemistry and periodic acid-Schiff staining, respectively. The factors involved in Notch1/Hes1 signaling were detected using qRT-PCR and western blot. In our study, we found that lymphatic metastasis, pTNM staging, and the carcinoembryonic antigen level were significantly different between groups. The depth of crypts and the rate of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive cells were distinctly higher in DM-CRC and patients who were managed with insulin. Moreover, the goblet cell differentiation rate was decreased in DM-CRC. The expression of Dll1, Notch1, Math1, and RBP-Jκ was increased in DM-CRC, whereas the expression of Dll4 and Hes1 was decreased in this group in normal tissue. In CRC tissue, the expression of Dll1 and Notch1 was clearly higher than that in DM-CRC. Furthermore, the trend in these changes was aggravated with insulin management and alleviated with metformin treatment. In conclusion, the abnormal cell proliferation and differentiation observed in DM-CRC are correlated with overactivated Notch1/Hes1 signaling, which is potentially relieved by metformin treatment.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Proliferation, differentiation, and morphogenesis of the intestinal epithelium are tightly regulated by a number of molecular pathways. Coordinated action of intestine is achieved by gastrointestinal hormones, most of which exert these actions through G-protein-coupled receptors. We herein investigated the role of Gαq/11-mediated signaling in intestinal homeostasis.METHODS: Intestinal tissues from control (Gnaqflox/floxGna11+/+ ), Int-Gq knock-out (KO) (VilCre+/-Gnaqflox/floxGna11+/+ ), G11 KO (Gnaqflox/floxGna11-/- ), and Int-Gq/G11 double knock-out (DKO) (VilCre+/-Gnaqflox/floxGna11-/- ) mice were examined by microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and immunohistochemistry. The effect of Gαq/11-mediated signaling was studied in the cell lineage, proliferation, and apoptosis. Dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) colitis was induced to study the role of Gαq/11 in colon.RESULTS: Paneth cells were enlarged, increased in number, and mislocalized in Int-Gq/G11 DKO small intestine. Paneth cells also reacted with PAS and Muc2 antibody, indicating an intermediate character of Paneth and goblet cells. The nuclear β-catenin, T-cell factor 1, and Sox9 expression were reduced severely in the crypt base of Int-Gq/G11 DKO intestine. Proliferation was activated in the crypt base and apoptosis was enhanced along the crypt. Int-Gq/G11 DKO mice were susceptible to DSS colitis. Proliferation was inhibited in the crypt of unaffected and regenerative areas. Cystic crypts, periodic acid-Schiff-positive cells, and Muc2-positive cells were unusually observed in the ulcerative region.CONCLUSIONS: The Gαq/11-mediated pathway plays a pivotal role in the preservation of intestinal homeostasis, especially in Paneth cell maturation and positioning. Wnt/β-catenin signaling was reduced significantly in the crypt base in Gαq/G11-deficient mice, resulting in the defective maturation of Paneth cells, induction of differentiation toward goblet cells, and susceptibility to DSS colitis.
Breast carcinoma is the most common malignancy in women, and the incidence rate has increased dramatically in recent years. Metastasis is responsible for most advanced breast cancer mortality, but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood despite extensive research. Recently, short non-coding RNA molecules, including miRNAs, which mediate changes in signalling pathways, have emerged as metastatic regulators of the breast carcinoma. Previous reports have suggested that miR-130b-3p has both oncogenic and tumour suppressor functions in a cancer type-dependent manner. However, the roles and underlying molecular mechanisms of miR-130b-3p in the development of metastasis in breast carcinoma remain unclear. Here, we reported for the first time that miR-130b-3p was differentially expressed in early-stage non-invasive MCF-7 human breast carcinoma cells and aggressive late-stage MDA-MB-231 cells. In gain-of-function and loss-of-function studies, we demonstrated that miR-130b-3p could inhibit breast carcinoma cell invasion and migration by directly targeting the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1). Our data also indicated that MMP-9, MMP-13, and VEGF were regulated by miR-130b-3p and may be involved in the inhibition of cell invasion and migration in breast carcinoma. Collectively, our findings reveal a new regulatory mechanism of miR-130b-3p and suggest that miR-130b-3p may be a potential target against human breast cancer metastasis.
BACKGROUND: Osteoblasts possess strong growth modulatory activity on haematopoietic stem cells and progenitors. We sought to characterise the growth and differentiation modulatory activities of human osteoblasts at distinct stages of maturation on cord blood (CB) progenitors in the context of osteoblast conditioned medium (OCM).METHODS: OCM was produced from MSC-derived osteoblasts (M-OST) at distinct stages of maturation. The growth modulatory activities of the OCM were tested on CB CD34+ cells using different functional assays.RESULTS: OCMs raised the growth of CB cells and expansion of CD34+ cells independently of the maturation status of M-OST. However, productions of immature CB cells including committed and multipotent progenitors were superior with OCM produced with immature osteoblasts. Osteogenic differentiation was accompanied by the upregulation of IGFBP-2, by several members of the Angpt-L family of growth factor, and by the Notch ligands Dll-1 and Dll-4. However, the growth activity of OCM and the in vivo engraftment properties of OCM-expanded CB cells were retained after IGFBP-2 neutralisation. Similarly, OCM-mediated expansion of CB myeloid progenitors was largely independent of Notch signalling.CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that immature osteoblasts possess greater regulatory activity over haematopoietic progenitors, and that this activity is not entirely dependent on Notch signalling.
Notch signaling has been demonstrated to be involved in ductular reactions and fibrosis. Previous studies have shown that Huang Qi Decoction (HQD) can prevent the progression of cholestatic liver fibrosis (CLF). However, whether HQD affects the Notch signaling pathway is unclear. In this study, CLF was established by common bile duct ligation (BDL) in rats. At the end of the first week, the rats were randomly divided into a model group (i.e., BDL), an HQD group, and a sorafenib positive control group (SORA) and were treated for 3 weeks. Bile duct proliferation and liver fibrosis were determined by tissue staining. Activation of the Notch signaling pathway was evaluated by analyzing expressions of Notch-1, -2, -3, and -4, Jagged (JAG) 1, and Delta like (DLL)-1, -3, and -4. The results showed that HQD significantly reduced the deposition of collagen and the Hyp content of liver tissue and inhibited the activation of HSCs compared with the BDL group. In addition, HQD significantly decreased the protein and mRNA expressions of TGF-[Formula: see text]1 and [Formula: see text]-SMA. In contrast, HQD significantly enhanced expression of the Smad 7 protein. HQD also reduced biliary epithelial cell proliferation, and reduced the mRNA levels of CK7, CK8, CK18, SRY-related high mobility group-box gene (SOX) 9, epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) and the positive areas of CK19 and OV6. In addition, the mRNA and protein expressions of Notch-3, -4, JAG1, and DLL-1, -3 were significantly reduced in the HQD compared to the BDL group. These results demonstrated that HQD may prevent biliary liver fibrosis through inhibition of the Notch signaling pathway, and it may be a potential treatment for cholestatic liver disease.
BACKGROUND: Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are increasingly prevalent neurodevelopmental disorders that are behaviorally diagnosed in early childhood. Most ASD cases likely arise from a complex mixture of genetic and environmental factors, an interface where the epigenetic marks of DNA methylation may be useful as risk biomarkers. The placenta is a potentially useful surrogate tissue characterized by a methylation pattern of partially methylated domains (PMDs) and highly methylated domains (HMDs) reflective of methylation patterns observed in the early embryo.METHODS: In this study, we investigated human term placentas from the MARBLES (Markers of Autism Risk in Babies: Learning Early Signs) prospective study by whole genome bisulfite sequencing. We also examined the utility of PMD/HMDs in detecting methylation differences consistent with ASD diagnosis at age three.RESULTS: We found that while human placental methylomes have highly reproducible PMD and HMD locations, there is a greater variation between individuals in methylation levels over PMDs than HMDs due to both sampling and individual variability. In a comparison of methylation differences in placental samples from 24 ASD and 23 typically developing (TD) children, a HMD containing a putative fetal brain enhancer near DLL1 was found to reach genome-wide significance and was validated for significantly higher methylation in ASD by pyrosequencing.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the placenta could be an informative surrogate tissue for predictive ASD biomarkers in high-risk families.
Ligand-dependent activation of Notch signaling is required to maintain the stem-cell niche of normal intestinal epithelium. However, the precise role of Notch signaling in the maintenance of the intestinal tumor stem cell niche and the importance of the RBPJ-independent non-canonical pathway in intestinal tumors remains unknown. Here we show that Notch signaling was activated in LGR5+ve cells of APC-deficient mice intestinal tumors. Accordingly, Notch ligands, including Jag1, Dll1, and Dll4, were expressed in these tumors. In vitro studies using tumor-derived organoids confirmed the intrinsic Notch activity-dependent growth of tumor cells. Surprisingly, the targeted deletion of Jag1 but not RBPJ in LGR5+ve tumor-initiating cells resulted in the silencing of Hes1 expression, disruption of the tumor stem cell niche, and dramatic reduction in the proliferation activity of APC-deficient intestinal tumors in vivo. Thus, our results highlight the importance of ligand-dependent non-canonical Notch signaling in the proliferation and maintenance of the tumor stem cell niche in APC-deficient intestinal adenomas.
The Notch cascade is a fundamental and highly conserved pathway able to control cell-fate. The Notch pathway arises from the interaction of one of the Notch receptors (Notch1-4) with different types of ligands; in particular, the Notch pathway can be activated canonically (through the ligands Jagged1, Jagged2, DLL1, DLL3 or DLL4) or non-canonically (through various molecules shared by other pathways). In the context of tumor biology, the deregulation of Notch signaling is found to be crucial, but it is still not clear if the activation of this pathway exerts a tumor-promoting or a tumor suppressing function in different cancer settings. Untill now, it is well known that the inflammatory compartment is critically involved in tumor progression; however, inflammation, which occurs as a physiological response to damage, can also drive protective processes toward carcinogenesis. Therefore, the role of inflammation in cancer is still controversial and needs to be further clarified. Interestingly, recent literature reports that some of the signaling molecules modulated by the cells of the immune system also belong to or interact with the canonical and non-canonical Notch pathways, delineating a possible link between Notch activation and inflammatory environment. In this review we analyze the hypothesis that specific inflammatory conditions can control the activation of the Notch pathway in terms of biological effect, partially explaining the dichotomy of both phenomena. For this purpose, we detail the molecular links reported in the literature connecting inflammation and Notch signaling in different types of tumor, with a particular focus on colorectal carcinogenesis, which represents a perfect example of context-dependent interaction between malignant transformation and immune response.
Notch signaling is involved in cell fate decisions during murine vascular development and hematopoiesis in the microenvironment of bone marrow. To investigate the close relationship between hematopoietic stem cells and human endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) in the bone marrow niche, we examined the effects of Notch signals [Jagged-1 and Delta-like ligand (Dll)-1] on the proliferation and differentiation of human CD133+ cell-derived EPCs. We established stromal systems using HESS-5 murine bone marrow cells transfected with human Jagged-1 (hJagged-1) or human Dll-1 (hDll-1). CD133+ cord blood cells were co-cultured with the stromal cells for 7 days, and then their proliferation, differentiation, and EPC colony formation was evaluated. We found that hJagged-1 induced the proliferation and differentiation of CD133+ cord blood EPCs. In contrast, hDll-1 had little effect. CD133+ cells stimulated by hJagged-1 differentiated into CD31+/KDR+ cells, expressed vascular endothelial growth factor-A, and showed enhanced EPC colony formation compared with CD133+ cells stimulated by hDll-1. To evaluate the angiogenic properties of hJagged-1- and hDll-1-stimulated EPCs in vivo, we transplanted these cells into the ischemic hindlimbs of nude mice. Transplantation of EPCs stimulated by hJagged-1, but not hDll-1, increased regional blood flow and capillary density in ischemic hindlimb muscles. This is the first study to show that human Notch signaling influences EPC proliferation and differentiation in the bone marrow microenvironment. Human Jagged-1 induced the proliferation and differentiation of CD133+ cord blood progenitors compared with hDll-1. Thus, hJagged-1 signaling in the bone marrow niche may be used to expand EPCs for therapeutic angiogenesis.
Erythrocytosis is driven mainly by erythropoietin, which is regulated by hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF). Mutations in HIF prolyl 4-hydroxylase 2 (HIF-P4H-2) (PHD2/EGLN1), the major downregulator of HIFα subunits, are found in familiar erythrocytosis, and large-spectrum conditional inactivation of HIF-P4H-2 in mice leads to severe erythrocytosis. Although bone marrow is the primary site for erythropoiesis, spleen remains capable of extramedullary erythropoiesis. We studied HIF-P4H-2-deficient (Hif-p4h-2gt/gt) mice, which show slightly induced erythropoiesis upon aging despite nonincreased erythropoietin levels, and identified spleen as the site of extramedullary erythropoiesis. Splenic hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) of these mice exhibited increased erythroid burst-forming unit (BFU-E) growth, and the mice were protected against anemia. HIF-1α and HIF-2α were stabilized in the spleens, while the Notch ligand genes Jag1, Jag2, and Dll1 and target Hes1 became downregulated upon aging HIF-2α dependently. Inhibition of Notch signaling in wild-type spleen HSCs phenocopied the increased BFU-E growth. HIFα stabilization can thus mediate non-erythropoietin-driven splenic erythropoiesis via altered Notch signaling.
Autoimmune uveitis is an intraocular inflammatory disorder in developed countries. Understanding the mechanisms underlying the development and modulation of immune reaction in uveitic eyes is critical for designing therapeutic interventions. Here we investigated the role of Notch signalling in regulatory T-cell (Treg cell) function during experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU). Using the Foxp3-GFP reporter mouse strain, the significance of Notch signalling for the function of infiltrating Treg cells was characterized in an EAU model. We found that infiltrating Treg cells substantially expressed Notch-1, Notch-2, JAG1 and DLL1 in uveitic eyes. Activation of Notch signalling, represented by expression of HES1 and HES5, was enhanced in infiltrating Treg cells. Treatment with JAG1 and DLL1 down-regulated Foxp3 expression and immunosuppressive activity of isolated infiltrating Treg cells in vitro, whereas neutralizing antibodies against JAG1 and DLL1 diminished Notch ligand-mediated negative effects on Treg cells. To investigate the significance of Notch signalling for Treg cell function in vivo, lentivirus-derived Notch short hairpin RNAs were transduced into in vitro expanded Treg cells before adoptive transfer of Treg cells into EAU mice. Transfer of Notch-1-deficient Treg cells remarkably reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine production and inflammatory cell infiltration in uveitic eyes. Taken together, Notch signalling negatively modulates the immunosuppressive function of infiltrating Treg cells in mouse EAU.
Adult bone mass is maintained through a balance of the activities of osteoblasts and osteoclasts. Although Notch signaling has been shown to maintain bone homeostasis by controlling the commitment, differentiation, and function of cells in both the osteoblast and osteoclast lineages, the precise mechanisms by which Notch performs such diverse and complex roles in bone physiology remain unclear. By using a transgenic approach that modified the expression of delta-like 1 (DLL1) or Jagged1 (JAG1) in an osteoblast-specific manner, we investigated the ligand-specific effects of Notch signaling in bone homeostasis. This study demonstrated for the first time that the proper regulation of DLL1 expression, but not JAG1 expression, in osteoblasts is essential for the maintenance of bone remodeling. DLL1-induced Notch signaling was responsible for the expansion of the bone-forming cell pool by promoting the proliferation of committed but immature osteoblasts. However, DLL1-Notch signaling inhibited further differentiation of the expanded osteoblasts to become fully matured functional osteoblasts, thereby substantially decreasing bone formation. Osteoblast-specific expression of DLL1 did not alter the intrinsic differentiation ability of cells of the osteoclast lineage. However, maturational arrest of osteoblasts caused by the DLL1 transgene impaired the maturation and function of osteoclasts due to a failed osteoblast-osteoclast coupling, resulting in severe suppression of bone metabolic turnover. Taken together, DLL1-mediated Notch signaling is critical for proper bone remodeling as it regulates the differentiation and function of both osteoblasts and osteoclasts. Our study elucidates the importance of ligand-specific activation of Notch signaling in the maintenance of bone homeostasis. J. Cell. Physiol. 232: 2569-2580, 2017. © 2016 The Authors. Journal of Cellular Physiology Published by Wiley Periodicals Inc.
Epithelial ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecologic malignancy, despite advances in treatment. The most common histological type, high-grade ovarian serous carcinoma (OSC) is usually diagnosed at an advanced stage, and although these types of tumors frequently respond to surgery and platinum-based chemotherapy, they usually recur. Ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC) is an unusual histological type, which is known to be intrinsically chemoresistant and is associated with poor prognosis in advanced stages. In recent years, genetic alterations and epigenetic modulation of signaling pathways have been reported in OSC and OCCC, including the overexpression of Notch pathway elements and histone deacetylases. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACis), including vorinostat (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid), alter the transcription of genes involved in cell growth, survival and apoptosis, and have become an attractive therapeutic approach. However, no previous work has addressed the effect of HDACis, and in particular vorinostat, on Notch signaling in ovarian cancer. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate the modulation of the Notch pathway by vorinostat in ovarian cancer. Using immunofluorescence and quantitative polymerase chain reaction, the present results revealed that vorinostat activated the Notch pathway in OCCC and OSC cell lines, through different Notch ligands. In OCCC, the activation of the Notch pathway appeared to occur through Delta-like (Dll) ligands 1, 2 and 3, whereas in OSC Dll1 and Jagged 1 and 2 ligands were involved. The activation of the Notch pathway by vorinostat, in OCCC and OSC cell lines, culminated in the increased expression of the same downstream transcription factors, hairy enhancer of split (Hes) 1 and 5, and Hes-related proteins 1 and 2. In conclusion, vorinostat modulates the expression of several downstream targets of the Notch pathway and independent Notch receptors and ligands that are expressed in OSC and OCCC. This upregulation of the Notch pathway may explain why vorinostat therapy fails in ovarian carcinoma treatment, as shown in certain clinical trials.
Notch expressed on CD4+ T cells transduces signals that mediate their effector functions and survival. Although Notch signaling is known to be cis-inhibited by Notch ligands expressed on the same cells, the role of Notch ligands on T cells remains unclear. In this report we demonstrate that the CD4+ T cell Notch ligand Dll1 transduces signals required for their survival. Co-transfer of CD4+ T cells from Dll1-/- and control mice into recipient mice followed by immunization revealed a rapid decline of CD4+ T cells from Dll1-/- mice compared with control cells. Dll1-/- mice exhibited lower clinical scores of experimental autoimmune encephalitis than control mice. The expression of Notch target genes in CD4+ T cells from Dll1-/- mice was not affected, suggesting that Dll1 deficiency in T cells does not affect cis Notch signaling. Overexpression of the intracellular domain of Dll1 in Dll1-deficient CD4+ T cells partially rescued impaired survival. Our data demonstrate that Dll1 is an independent regulator of Notch-signaling important for the survival of activated CD4+ T cells, and provide new insight into the physiological roles of Notch ligands as well as a regulatory mechanism important for maintaining adaptive immune responses.
Postnatal skeletal muscle growth results from the activation of satellite cells and/or an increase in protein synthesis. The Notch signalling pathway maintains satellite cells in a quiescent state, and once activated, sustains their proliferation and commitment towards differentiation. In mammals, POFUT1-mediated O-fucosylation regulates the interactions between NOTCH receptors and ligands of the DELTA/JAGGED family, thus initiating the activation of canonical Notch signalling. Here, we analysed the consequences of downregulated expression of the Pofut1 gene on postnatal muscle growth in mutant Pofut1(cax/cax) (cax, compact axial skeleton) mice and differentiation of their satellite cell-derived myoblasts (SCDMs). Pofut1(cax/cax) mice exhibited muscle hypertrophy, no hyperplasia and a decrease in satellite cell numbers compared with wild-type C3H mice. In agreement with these observations, Pofut1(cax/cax) SCDMs differentiated earlier concomitant with reduced Pax7 expression and decrease in PAX7(+)/MYOD(-) progenitor cells. In vitro binding assays showed a reduced interaction of DELTA-LIKE 1 ligand (DLL1) with NOTCH receptors expressed at the cell surface of SCDMs, leading to a decreased Notch signalling as seen by the quantification of cleaved NICD and Notch target genes. These results demonstrated that POFUT1-mediated O-fucosylation of NOTCH receptors regulates myogenic cell differentiation and affects postnatal muscle growth in mice.
Delta/Notch-like EGF-related receptor (DNER) has been reported to act as a Notch ligand, despite lacking a Delta/Serrate/Lag (DSL) binding domain common to all other known ligands. The established Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1), but not DNER, activated Notch1 in a luciferase assay, prevented the differentiation of myoblasts through Notch signaling, and bound Notch-fc in a cell-based assay. DNER is not a Notch ligand and its true function remains unknown.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2017 May 03;8:15486.
The effect of microRNA (miRNA) and targeted mRNA on signal transduction is not fully understood in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Here, we tried to identify the miRNAs-regulated pathways through a combination of miRNA and mRNA microarray in CD34+ cells from MDS patients. We identified 34 differentially expressed miRNAs and 1783 mRNAs in MDS. 25 dysregulated miRNAs and 394 targeted mRNAs were screened by a combination of Pearson's correlation analysis and software prediction. Pathway analysis showed that several pathways such as Notch, PI3K/Akt might be regulated by those miRNA-mRNAs pairs. Through a combination of Pathway and miRNA-Gene or GO-Network analysis, miRNAs-regulated pathways, such as miR-195-5p/DLL1/Notch signaling pathway, were identified. Further qRT-PCR showed that miR-195-5p was up-regulated while DLL1 was down-regulated in patients with low-grade MDS compared with normal controls. Luciferase assay showed that DLL1 was a direct target of miR-195-5p. Overexpression of miR-195-5p led to increased cell apoptosis and reduced cell growth through inhibition of Notch signaling pathway. In conclusion, alteration expression of miRNAs and targeted mRNAs might have an important impact on cancer-related cellular pathways in MDS. Inhibition of Notch signaling pathway by miR-195-5p-DLL1 axis contributes to the excess apoptosis in low-grade MDS.
The thymus is the site of T cell maturation. Notch receptors (Notch1-4) and ligands (DLL1-3 and Jagged1-2) constitute one of several pathways involved in this process. Our data revealed differential constitutive expression of Notch genes and ligands in T lymphocytes and thymic dendritic cells (tDCs), suggesting their participation in human thymocyte maturation. nTreg analyses indicated that the Notch components function in parallel to promote maturation in the thymus.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is an aggressive cancer with current therapies only marginally impacting on patient survival. Glioma stem cells (GSCs), a subpopulation of highly tumorigenic cells, are considered major contributors to glioma progression and play seminal roles in therapy resistance, immune evasion and increased invasion. Despite clinical relevance, effective/selective therapeutic targeting strategies for GSCs do not exist, potentially due to the lack of a definitive understanding of key regulators of GSCs. Consequently, there is a pressing need to identify therapeutic targets and novel options to effectively target this therapy-resistant cell population. The precise roles of GSCs in governing GBM development, progression and prognosis are under intense scrutiny, but key upstream regulatory genes remain speculative. MDA-9/Syntenin (SDCBP), a scaffold protein, regulates tumor pathogenesis in multiple cancers. Highly aggressive cancers like GBM express elevated levels of MDA-9 and contain increased populations of GSCs. We now uncover a unique function of MDA-9 as a facilitator and determinant of glioma stemness and survival. Mechanistically, MDA-9 regulates multiple stemness genes (Nanog, Oct4 and Sox2) through activation of STAT3. MDA-9 controls survival of GSCs by activating the NOTCH1 pathway through phospho-Src and DLL1. Once activated, cleaved NOTCH1 regulates C-Myc expression through RBPJK, thereby facilitating GSC growth and proliferation. Knockdown of MDA-9 affects the NOTCH1/C-Myc and p-STAT3/Nanog pathways causing a loss of stemness and initiation of apoptosis in GSCs. Our data uncover a previously unidentified relationship between MDA-9 and GSCs, reinforcing relevance of this gene as a potential therapeutic target in GBM.
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is the most common congenital cerebral malformation in humans, characterized by impaired forebrain cleavage and midline facial anomalies. It presents a high heterogeneity, both in clinics and genetics. We have developed a novel targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) assay and screened a cohort of 257 HPE patients. Mutations with high confidence in their deleterious effect were identified in approximately 24% of the cases and were held for diagnosis, whereas variants of uncertain significance were identified in 10% of cases. This study provides a new classification of genes that are involved in HPE. SHH, ZIC2, and SIX3 remain the top genes in term of frequency with GLI2, and are followed by FGF8 and FGFR1. The three minor HPE genes identified by our study are DLL1, DISP1, and SUFU. Here, we demonstrate that fibroblast growth factor signaling must now be considered a major pathway involved in HPE. Interestingly, several cases of double mutations were found and argue for a polygenic inheritance of HPE. Altogether, it supports that the implementation of NGS in HPE diagnosis is required to improve genetic counseling.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) negatively influences skeletal muscle health; however, its effect on muscle satellite cells (SCs) remains largely unknown. SCs from samples from rodents (Akita) and human subjects with T1D were examined to discern differences in SC density and functionality compared with samples from their respective control subjects. Examination of the Notch pathway was undertaken to investigate its role in changes to SC functionality. Compared with controls, Akita mice demonstrated increased muscle damage after eccentric exercise along with a decline in SC density and myogenic capacity. Quantification of components of the Notch signaling pathway revealed a persistent activation of Notch signaling in Akita SCs, which could be reversed with the Notch inhibitor DAPT. Similar to Akita samples, skeletal muscle from human subjects with T1D displayed a significant reduction in SC content, and the Notch ligand, DLL1, was significantly increased compared with control subjects, supporting the dysregulated Notch pathway observed in Akita muscles. These data indicate that persistent activation in Notch signaling impairs SC functionality in the T1D muscle, resulting in a decline in SC content. Given the vital role played by the SC in muscle growth and maintenance, these findings suggest that impairments in SC capacities play a primary role in the skeletal muscle myopathy that characterizes T1D.
Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a lethal and aggressive malignancy. Currently, the identities of prognostic and predictive makers of NSCLC have not been fully established. Dysregulated Notch signaling has been implicated in many human malignancies, including NSCLC. However, the prognostic value of measuring Notch signaling and the utility of developing Notch-targeted therapies in NSCLC remain inconclusive. The present study investigated the association of individual Notch receptor and ligand levels with lung adenocarcinoma (ADC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) prognosis using the Kaplan-Meier plotte database. This online database encompasses 2437 lung cancer samples. Hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals were calculated. The results showed that higher Notch1, Notch2, JAG1, and DLL1 mRNA expression predicted better overall survival (OS) in lung ADC, but showed no significance in SCC patients. Elevated Notch3, JAG2, and DLL3 mRNA expression was associated with poor OS of ADC patients, but not in SCC patients. There was no association between Notch4 and OS in either lung ADC or SCC patients. In conclusion, the set of Notch1, Notch2, JAG1, DLL1 and that of Notch3, JAG2, DLL3 played opposing prognostic roles in lung ADC patients. Neither set of Notch receptors and ligands was indicative of lung SCC prognosis. Notch signaling could serve as promising marker to predict outcomes in lung ADC patients. The distinct features of lung cancer subtypes and Notch components should be considered when developing future Notch-targeted therapies.
Physical and chemical insult-induced bone marrow (BM) damage often leads to lethality resulting from the depletion of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and/or a deteriorated BM stroma. Notch signaling plays an important role in hematopoiesis, but whether it is involved in BM damage remains unclear. In this study, we found that conditional disruption of RBP-J, the transcription factor of canonical Notch signaling, increased irradiation sensitivity in mice. Activation of Notch signaling with the endothelial cell (EC)-targeted soluble Dll1 Notch ligand mD1R promoted BM recovery after irradiation. mD1R treatment resulted in a significant increase in myeloid progenitors and monocytes in the BM, spleen and peripheral blood after irradiation. mD1R also enhanced hematopoiesis in mice treated with cyclophosphamide, a chemotherapeutic drug that induces BM suppression. Mechanistically, mD1R increased the proliferation and reduced the apoptosis of myeloid cells in the BM after irradiation. The β chain cytokine receptor Csf2rb2 was identified as a downstream molecule of Notch signaling in hematopoietic cells. mD1R improved hematopoietic recovery through up-regulation of the hematopoietic expression of Csf2rb2. Our findings reveal the role of Notch signaling in irradiation- and drug-induced BM suppression and establish a new potential therapy of BM- and myelo-suppression induced by radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Mucous cell metaplasia/hyperplasia in the middle ear epithelium is associated with the occurrence of otitis media with effusion during infections. However, the mechanism by which Notch signaling regulates cell fate in the middle ear epithelium is unclear. The aim of the present study was to elucidate this mechanism by investigating the localization of Notch receptors, such as Notch1 and Notch2, and Notch ligands, such as Jagged1, in the normal mouse middle ear epithelium (NMMEE) using immunoﬂuorescence. Furthermore, the mRNA expression levels of Notch receptors and ligands were evaluated using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The effects of the γ-secretase inhibitor N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine tert-butyl ester (DAPT) on epithelial cell proliferation were determined using 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) staining and immunofluorescence staining of the apoptosis marker caspase-3 and the epithelial proliferation marker pan-cytokeratine. In addition, the differentiation of the NMMEE cells was characterized by evaluating the mRNA expression levels of the mucous cell-associated genes Arg2, Muc2, Spdef, Spink4 and Tff1 using quantitative PCR. Notch1, Notch2 and Jagged1 were observed to be co-localized throughout the mouse middle ear epithelium. Furthermore, Notch1-4, Jagged1, Jagged2, Dll1 and Dll4 mRNAs were expressed in the NMMEE cells. The inhibition of Notch by DAPT resulted in fewer EdU-positive cells and the upregulation of the expression levels of various mucous cell-associated genes. The results indicate that DAPT suppresses the proliferation of NMMEE cells while promoting their differentiation into mucous cells. Therefore, DAPT may provide a specific therapeutic strategy for the reversal of multiple pathological processes that are associated with epithelium thickening in the middle ear.
BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer is an aggressive cancer with dismal prognosis, urgently necessitating better biomarkers to improve therapeutic options and early diagnosis. Traditional approaches of biomarker detection that consider only one aspect of the biological continuum like gene expression alone are limited in their scope and lack robustness in identifying the key regulators of the disease. We have adopted a multidimensional approach involving the cross-talk between the omics spaces to identify key regulators of disease progression.METHODS: Multidimensional domain-specific disease signatures were obtained using rank-based meta-analysis of individual omics profiles (mRNA, miRNA, DNA methylation) related to pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). These domain-specific PDAC signatures were integrated to identify genes that were affected across multiple dimensions of omics space in PDAC (genes under multiple regulatory controls, GMCs). To further pin down the regulators of PDAC pathophysiology, a systems-level network was generated from knowledge-based interaction information applied to the above identified GMCs. Key regulators were identified from the GMC network based on network statistics and their functional importance was validated using gene set enrichment analysis and survival analysis.RESULTS: Rank-based meta-analysis identified 5391 genes, 109 miRNAs and 2081 methylation-sites significantly differentially expressed in PDAC (false discovery rate ≤ 0.05). Bimodal integration of meta-analysis signatures revealed 1150 and 715 genes regulated by miRNAs and methylation, respectively. Further analysis identified 189 altered genes that are commonly regulated by miRNA and methylation, hence considered GMCs. Systems-level analysis of the scale-free GMCs network identified eight potential key regulator hubs, namely E2F3, HMGA2, RASA1, IRS1, NUAK1, ACTN1, SKI and DLL1, associated with important pathways driving cancer progression. Survival analysis on individual key regulators revealed that higher expression of IRS1 and DLL1 and lower expression of HMGA2, ACTN1 and SKI were associated with better survival probabilities.CONCLUSIONS: It is evident from the results that our hierarchical systems-level multidimensional analysis approach has been successful in isolating the converging regulatory modules and associated key regulatory molecules that are potential biomarkers for pancreatic cancer progression.
BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that have been implicated in tumor initiation and progression. In a previous study we identified 138 miRNAs as differentially expressed in endometrial adenocarcinoma compared to normal tissues. One of these miRNAs was miRNA-34a, which regulates several genes involved in the Notch pathway, which is frequently altered in endometrial cancer. The aims of this study were to verify the differential expression of a subset of miRNAs and to scrutinize the regulatory role of mir-34a on the target genes NOTCH1 and DLL1.METHODS: Twenty-five miRNAs that were previously identified as differentially expressed were subjected to further analysis using qPCR. To investigate the regulation of NOTCH1 and DLL1 by mir-34a, we designed gain- and loss-of-function experiments in Ishikawa and HEK293 cell lines by transfection with a synthetic mir-34a mimic and a mir-34a inhibitor.RESULTS: Of the 25 validated miRNAs, seven were down-regulated and 18 were up-regulated compared to normal endometrium, which was fully consistent with our previous findings. In addition, the up-regulation of mir-34a led to a significant decrease in mRNA levels of NOTCH1 and DLL1, while down-regulation led to a significant increase in mRNA levels of these two genes.CONCLUSIONS: We verified both up-regulated and down-regulated miRNAs in the tumor samples, indicating various roles of microRNAs during tumor development. Mir-34a functions as a regulator by decreasing the expression of NOTCH1 and DLL1. Our study is the first to identify a correlation between mir-34a and its target genes NOTCH1 and DLL1 in endometrial adenocarcinoma.
© 2016 The Author(s) Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Aberrant activation of Notch signaling frequently occurs in liver cancer, and is associated with liver malignancies. However, the mechanisms regulating pathologic Notch activation in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain unclear. Protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (Pofut1) catalyzes the addition of O-linked fucose to the epidermal growth factor-like repeats of Notch. In the present study, we detected the expression of Pofut1 in 8 HCC cell lines and 253 human HCC tissues. We reported that Pofut1 was overexpressed in HCC cell lines and clinical HCC tissues, and Pofut1 overexpression clinically correlated with the unfavorable survival and high disease recurrence in HCC. The in vitro assay demonstrated that Pofut1 overexpression accelerated the cell proliferation and migration in HCC cells. Furthermore, Pofut1 overexpression promoted the binding of Notch ligand Dll1 to Notch receptor, and hence activated Notch signaling pathway in HCC cells, indicating that Pofut1 overexpression could be a reason for the aberrant activation of Notch signaling in HCC. Taken together, our findings indicated that an aberrant activated Pofut1-Notch pathway was involved in HCC progression, and blockage of this pathway could be a promising strategy for the therapy of HCC.
BACKGROUND: Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a highly conserved, master regulatory molecule required for endothelial cell proliferation, organization, migration and branching morphogenesis. Podocoryne carnea and drosophila, which lack endothelial cells and a vascular system, express VEGF homologs, indicating potential roles beyond angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. The role of VEGF in the development and homeostasis of the postnatal small intestine is unknown. We hypothesized regulating VEGF bioavailability in the postnatal small intestine would exhibit effects beyond the vasculature and influence epithelial cell stem/progenitor populations.METHODS: VEGF mutant mice were created that overexpressed VEGF in the brush border of epithelium via the villin promotor following doxycycline treatment. To decrease VEGF bioavailability, sFlt-1 mutant mice were generated that overexpressed the soluble VEGF receptor sFlt-1 upon doxycycline administration in the intestinal epithelium. Mice were analyzed after 21 days of doxycycline administration.RESULTS: Increased VEGF expression was confirmed by RT-qPCR and ELISA in the intestine of the VEGF mutants compared to littermates. The VEGF mutant duodenum demonstrated increased angiogenesis and vascular leak as compared to littermate controls. The VEGF mutant duodenum revealed taller villi and increased Ki-67-positive cells in the transit-amplifying zone with reduced Lgr5 expression. The duodenum of sFlt-1 mutants revealed shorter villi and longer crypts with reduced proliferation in the transit-amplifying zone, reduced expression of Dll1, Bmp4 and VE-cadherin, and increased expression of Sox9 and EphB2.CONCLUSIONS: Manipulating VEGF bioavailability leads to profound effects on not only the intestinal vasculature, but epithelial stem and progenitor cells in the intestinal crypt. Elucidation of the crosstalk between VEGF signaling in the vasculature, mesenchyme and epithelial stem/progenitor cell populations may direct future cell therapies for intestinal dysfunction or disease.
BACKGROUND: In the vertebrate retina, six neuronal and one glial cell class are produced from a common progenitor pool. During neurogenesis, adjacent retinal cells use Notch signaling to maintain a pool of progenitors by blocking particular cells from differentiating prematurely. In mice there are multiple Notch pathway ligands and receptors, but the role(s) of each paralogue during retinal histogenesis remains only partially defined.RESULTS: Here we analyzed the cell autonomous and nonautonomous requirements for the Deltalike1(Dll1) ligand during prenatal retinogenesis. We used the α-Cre driver to simultaneously delete a Dll1 conditional allele and activate the Z/EG reporter, then quantified Dll1 mutant phenotypes within and outside of this α-Cre GFP-marked lineage. We found that Dll1 activity is required for Hes1 expression, both autonomously and nonautonomously, but were surprised that retinal ganglion cell differentiation is only blocked cell autonomously. Moreover, Dll1 does not act during cone photoreceptor neurogenesis. Finally, Dll1 mutant adult retinas contained small retinal rosettes and RGC patterning defects but were otherwise normal.CONCLUSIONS: Although Dll1 participates in bidirectional (cis + trans) Notch signaling to regulate Hes1 expression, it only acts cell autonomously (in cis) to interpret inhibitory signals from other cells that block RGC neurogenesis. Developmental Dynamics 245:631-640, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Notch signaling regulates normal development and tissue homeostasis. Ligand endocytosis plays critical roles in Notch signaling activation. Endocytic proteins such as epsin and dynamin participate in Notch ligand activity by mediating Notch ligand endocytosis. The ubiquitin ligase Mib1 also plays essential roles in Notch signaling via Notch ligand ubiquitination. However, the molecular links between Mib1 and endocytic proteins have not been fully defined. Here, we show that Mib1 is involved in dynamin 2 recruitment to Dll1 and that Snx18, which interacts with dynamin 2, modestly regulates Dll1 endocytosis. Furthermore, the ubiquitin ligase activity of Mib1 is induced by Notch ligand-receptor interactions. Mib1 promotes the interaction between dynamin 2 and Snx18 in an ubiquitin ligase activity-dependent manner. These results suggest that Mib1 modulates dynamin recruitment by regulating the interaction between Snx18 and dynamin 2, thereby helping to ensure the efficient signaling activity of Notch ligands.
Notch signalling is a well-established pathway that regulates neurogenesis. However, little is known about the role of Notch signalling in specific neuronal differentiation. Using Dll1 null mice, we found that Notch signalling has no function in the specification of mesencephalic dopaminergic neural precursor cells (NPCs), but plays an important role in regulating their expansion and differentiation into neurons. Premature neuronal differentiation was observed in mesencephalons of Dll1-deficient mice or after treatment with a Notch signalling inhibitor. Coupling between neurogenesis and dopaminergic differentiation was indicated from the coincident emergence of neuronal and dopaminergic markers. Early in differentiation, decreasing Notch signalling caused a reduction in NPCs and an increase in dopaminergic neurons in association with dynamic changes in the proportion of sequentially-linked dopaminergic NPCs (Msx1/2+, Ngn2+, Nurr1+). These effects in differentiation caused a significant reduction in the number of dopaminergic neurons produced. Accordingly, Dll1 haploinsufficient adult mice, in comparison with their wild-type littermates, have a consistent reduction in neuronal density that was particularly evident in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Our results are in agreement with a mathematical model based on a Dll1-mediated regulatory feedback loop between early progenitors and their dividing precursors that controls the emergence and number of dopaminergic neurons.
Müller glia (MG) are the only glial cell type produced by the neuroepithelial progenitor cells that generate the vertebrate retina. MG are required to maintain retinal homeostasis and support the survival of retinal neurons. Furthermore, in certain vertebrate classes, MG function as adult stem cells, mediating retinal regeneration in response to injury. However, the mechanisms that regulate MG development are poorly understood because there is considerable overlap in gene expression between retinal progenitor cells and differentiated MG. We show that the LIM homeodomain transcription factor Lhx2 is required for the development of MG in the mouse retina. Temporally controlled knock-out studies reveal a requirement for Lhx2 during all stages of MG development, ranging from the proliferation of gliocompetent retinal progenitors, activation of Müller-specific gene expression, and terminal differentiation of MG morphological features. We show that Lhx2 regulates gliogenesis in part by regulating directly the expression of Notch pathway genes including Notch1, Dll1, and Dll3 and gliogenic transcription factors such as Hes1, Hes5, Sox8, and Rax. Conditional knock-out of Lhx2 resulted in a rapid downregulation of Notch pathway genes and loss of Notch signaling. We further demonstrate that Müller gliogenesis induced by misexpression of the potently gliogenic Notch pathway transcriptional effector Hes5 requires Lhx2 expression. These results indicate that Lhx2 not only directly regulates expression of Notch signaling pathway components, but also acts together with the gliogenic Notch pathway to drive MG specification and differentiation.
Even if ovarian cancer patients are very responsive to a cisplatinum-based therapy, most will relapse with a resistant disease. New experimental animal models are needed to explore the mechanisms of resistance, to better tailor treatment and improve patient prognosis. To address these aims, seven patient-derived high-grade serous/endometrioid ovarian cancer xenografts were characterized for the antitumor response after one and two cycles of cisplatinum and classified as Very Responsive, Responsive, and Low Responsive to drug treatment. Xenografts re-growing after the first drug cycle were much less responsive to the second one. The expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cancer stem cells (CSCs) genes was investigated in cisplatinum-treated and not-treated tumors. We found that different EMT (TCF3, CAMK2N1, EGFR, and IGFBP4) and CSCs (SMO, DLL1, STAT3, and ITGA6) genes were expressed at higher levels in Low Responsive than in Responsive and Very Responsive xenografts. The expression of STAT3 was found to be associated with lower survival (HR = 13.7; p = 0.013) in the TCGA patient data set. MMP9, CD44, DLL4, FOXP1, MERTK, and PTPRC genes were found more expressed in tumors re-growing after cisplatinum treatment than in untreated tumors. We here describe a new in vivo ovarian carcinoma experimental setting that will be instrumental for specific trials of combination therapy to counteract cisplatinum resistance in order to improve the prognosis of ovarian patients.
Bone morphogenetic protein 9 (BMP9), also known as growth differentiation factor 2, plays a key role in promoting osteosarcoma growth. However, the underlying mechanism remains to be determined. The aim of the present study was to determine the mechanism of BMP9 promoting the growth of osteosarcoma mediated by the Notch signaling pathway. Osteosarcoma cell lines, 143B and MG63, were used for the in vitro experiments. Cell proliferation, cell migration and cell cycle transformation were monitored under various settings. The control and experimental groups used in the present study were BMP9 adenovirus (AdBMP9), a recombinant adenovirus expressing the dominant-negative mutant of Notch1 (AdR-dnNotch1), AdBMP9+AdR-dnNotch1 and AdBMP9+compound E (blocker of the Notch signaling pathway). The results showed that Notch ligands DLL1, JAG1 and JAG2, as well as Notch receptors Notch1, Notch2 and Notch3 were markedly expressed in the two cell lines. Cell proliferation and migration ability increased in the AdBMP9 group and were higher than that in the AdBMP9+AdR-dn Notch1 and AdBMP9+compound E group. Cell proliferation and migration in the AdR-dnNothc1 group was lower than that in the AdBMP9 group, although the differences were not statistically significant (P>0.05). The cell cycle ratio in the S/G2 phase increased significantly in the AdBMP9 group and was higher than that in the AdBMP9+AdR-dnNotch1 and AdBMP9+compound E groups. By contrast, the ratio of the cell cycle in S/G2 phase in the AdR-dnNotch1 group was lower than that in the AdBMP9 group. The differences were not statistically significant (P>0.05). In conclusion, the results showed that the Notch signaling pathway plays an important role in mediating the growth of osteosarcoma promoted by BMP9.
Recently a variety of molecular force sensors have been developed to study cellular forces acting through single mechano-sensitive receptors. A common strategy adopted is to attach ligand molecules on a surface through engineered molecular tethers which report cell-exerted tension on receptor-ligand bonds. This approach generally requires chemical conjugation of the ligand to the force reporting tether which can be time-consuming and labor-intensive. Moreover, ligand-tether conjugation can severely reduce the activity of protein ligands. To address this problem, we developed a Protein G (ProG)-based force sensor in which force-reporting tethers are conjugated to ProG instead of ligands. A recombinant ligand fused with IgG-Fc is conveniently assembled with the force sensor through ProG:Fc binding, therefore avoiding ligand conjugation and purification processes. Using this approach, we determined that molecular tension on E-cadherin is lower than dsDNA unzipping force (nominal value: 12 pN) during initial cadherin-mediated cell adhesion, followed by an escalation to forces higher than 43 pN (nominal value). This approach is highly modular and potentially universal as we demonstrate using two additional receptor-ligand interactions, P-selectin &PSGL-1 and Notch &DLL1.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to determine the influence of Notch ligands, Jagged-1 and Dll-1, on osteogenic differentiation by stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth.DESIGN: Notch ligands were immobilized on tissue culture surface using an indirect affinity immobilization technique. Cells from the remaining of dental pulp tissues from human deciduous teeth were isolated and characterized using flow cytometry and differentiation assay. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) enzymatic activity, osteogenic marker gene expression, and mineralization were determined using ALP assay, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and alizarin red staining, respectively.RESULTS: The isolated cells exhibited CD44, CD90, and CD105 expression but lack of CD45 expression. Further, these cells were able to differentiate toward osteogenic lineage. The upregulation of HES-1 and HEY-1 was observed in those cells on Dll-1 and Jagged-1 coated surface. The significant increase of ALP activity and mineralization was noted in those cells seeded on Jagged-1 surface and these results were attenuated when cells were pretreated with gamma secretase inhibitor. The significant upregulation of ALP and collagen type I gene expression was also observed in those cells seeded on Jagged-1 surface. The inconsistent Dll-1 induced osteogenic differentiation was found and high Dll-1 immobilized dose (50 nM) slightly enhanced alkaline phosphatase enzymatic activity. However, the statistical significant difference was not obtained as compared to the hFc control.CONCLUSION: The surface immobilization of Notch ligands, Jagged-1 and Dll-1, likely to enhance osteogenic differentiation of SHEDs. However, Jagged-1 had more ability in enhancing osteogenic differentiation than Dll-1 in our model.
Spermatozoa undergo sequential maturation changes during their transit along the epididymis. These changes are modulated by the epididymal epithelium and require a finely tuned gene expression. The Notch cell signaling pathway is a major regulator of cell fate decisions in several tissues, including the testis. Here, we evaluated the transcription and expression patterns of Notch components (Notch1-3, Dll1, Dll4, and Jagged1) and effectors (Hes1-2 and Hes5) in the adult mouse epididymis, and evaluated the role of Notch signaling in the epididymis through its in vivo blockade following administration of an inhibitor (DAPT). Notch components and effectors were dynamically transcribed and expressed in the epididymis and vas deferens, each segment exhibiting a specific combination of epithelial receptor/ligand/effector expression patterns. Nuclear detection of Notch effectors indicates that Notch signaling was active. Notch components (but not effectors) were identified in the cytoplasmic droplet of spermatozoa, in a dynamic and specific pattern along the epididymis. In addition, Notch components were identified within large and small vesicles in the epididymal lumen. A purified population of these membranous vesicles from different epididymal segments was obtained, and through dot blot analysis, it was confirmed that Notch components were carried within these vesicles in a dynamic pattern along the epididymal lumen. We hypothesize that these vesicles (epididymosomes) allow Notch signaling at distance from epididymal epithelial cells to spermatozoa. DAPT-induced in vivo Notch signaling blockade, although showing a low efficiency, disrupted the expression patterns of Notch components and effectors in the epididymal epithelium and in spermatozoa, and significantly decreased sperm motility, although not affecting male fertility. These results prompt for a regulatory role of Notch signaling in epididymal epithelial function and sperm maturation.
During somite segmentation, mRNA expression of the mouse Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) oscillates synchronously in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM). However, the dynamics of Dll1 protein expression were rather controversial, and their functional significance was not known. Recent live-imaging analysis showed that Dll1 protein expression also oscillates synchronously in the PSM. Interestingly, accelerated or delayed Dll1 expression by shortening or elongating the Dll1 gene, respectively, dampens or quenches Dll1 oscillation at intermediate levels, a phenomenon known as "amplitude/oscillation death" of coupled oscillators in mathematical modeling. Under this condition, oscillation of the Notch effector Hes7 is also dampened, leading to severe fusion of somites and their derivatives, such as vertebrae and ribs. Thus, the appropriate timing of Dll1 expression is critical for its oscillatory expression, pointing to the functional significance of Dll1-mediated oscillatory cell-cell interactions in the segmentation clock. In neural stem cells, Dll1 expression is also oscillatory, but non-synchronous, and when Dll1 oscillation is dampened, oscillation of another Notch effector, Hes1, is also dampened, leading to defects of neural development. In this review, we discuss the underlying mechanism for the different oscillatory dynamics (synchronous versus non-synchronous) in the PSM and neural stem cells in a unified manner.
The highly conserved Notch-signaling pathway mediates cell-to-cell communication and is pivotal for multiple developmental processes and tissue homeostasis in adult organisms. Notch receptors and their ligands are transmembrane proteins with multiple epidermal-growth-factor-like (EGF) repeats in their extracellular domains. In vitro the EGF repeats of mammalian ligands that are essential for Notch activation have been defined. However, in vivo the significance of the structural integrity of each EGF repeat in the ligand ectodomain for ligand function is still unclear. Here, we analyzed the mouse Notch ligand DLL1. We expressed DLL1 proteins with mutations disrupting disulfide bridges in each individual EGF repeat from single-copy transgenes in the HPRT locus of embryonic stem cells. In Notch transactivation assays all mutations impinged on DLL1 function and affected both NOTCH1 and NOTCH2 receptors similarly. An allelic series in mice that carried the same point mutations in endogenous Dll1, generated using a mini-gene strategy, showed that early developmental processes depending on DLL1-mediated NOTCH activation were differently sensitive to mutation of individual EGF repeats in DLL1. Notably, some mutations affected only somite patterning and resulted in vertebral column defects resembling spondylocostal dysostosis. In conclusion, the structural integrity of each individual EGF repeat in the extracellular domain of DLL1 is necessary for full DLL1 activity, and certain mutations in Dll1 might contribute to spondylocostal dysostosis in humans.
Low shear stress (LSS) contributes to the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases, such as atherosclerosis. Notch1 is a type I transmembrane receptor that critically determines the growth, differentiation, and survival of various cell types, but its role and mechanism in LSS-induced inflammatory response remains undetermined. Apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE(-/-)) mice were fed with high fat diet and administered intraperitoneally with DAPT (a γ-secretase inhibitor). Perivascular shear stress modifiers were placed around the right carotid arteries to induce LSS. The left carotid arteries with undisturbed shear stress (USS) were used as the control. LSS increased Delta-like 1 (DLL-1) protein expression and the expression of Notch1 and NICD, while DAPT administration reduced NICD expression. Compared with the LSS group, DAPT reduced LSS-induced plaque formation and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) expression. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were exposure to undisturbed shear stress (USS, 1Pa) or LSS (0.4Pa). Notch1 was inhibited by siRNA or DAPT. RT-PCR and western blotting analysis showed that LSS upregulated the expression of Notch1 in a time-dependent manner. Caveolin-1 (CAV1) inhibition by siRNA could reduce Notch1 and NICD expression. Compared with USS, LSS increased inflammatory response, including IL-1β and IL-6 secretion, ICAM-1 and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression, and THP-1 cells adhesion. Notch1 inhibition by siRNA or DAPT could reduce these inflammatory responses by reduction of NF-κB phosphorylation, upregulation of IkBα expression, and inhibition of nuclear translocation of NF-κB, while Notch1 activation by DLL-4 had an adverse effect. The Notch signaling system is therefore a potential target for modulating LSS-induced inflammation response during atherosclerosis.
Notch signaling is ubiquitously used to coordinate differentiation between adjacent cells across metazoans. Whereas Notch pathway components have been studied extensively, the effect of membrane distribution and dynamics of Notch receptors and ligands remains poorly understood. It is also unclear how cellular morphology affects these distributions and, ultimately, the signaling between cells. Here, we combine live-cell imaging and mathematical modeling to address these questions. We use a FRAP-TIRF assay to measure the diffusion and endocytosis rates of Delta-like 1 (Dll1) in mammalian cells. We find large cell-to-cell variability in the diffusion coefficients of Dll1 measured in single cells within the same population. Using a simple reaction-diffusion model, we show how membrane dynamics and cell morphology affect cell-cell signaling. We find that differences in the diffusion coefficients, as observed experimentally, can dramatically affect signaling between cells. Together, these results elucidate how membrane dynamics and cellular geometry can affect cell-cell signaling.
Since the discovery of endothelial colony forming cells (ECFC), there has been significant interest in their therapeutic potential to treat vascular injuries. ECFC cultures display significant heterogeneity and a hierarchy among cells able to give rise to high proliferative versus low proliferative colonies. Here we aimed to define molecularly this in vitro hierarchy. Based on flow cytometry, CD34 expression levels distinguished two populations. Only CD34 + ECFC had the capacity to reproduce high proliferative potential (HPP) colonies on replating, whereas CD34- ECFCs formed only small clusters. CD34 + ECFCs were the only ones to self-renew in stringent single-cell cultures and gave rise to both CD34 + and CD34- cells. Upon replating, CD34 + ECFCs were always found at the centre of HPP colonies and were more likely in G0/1 phase of cell cycling. Functionally, CD34 + ECFC were superior at restoring perfusion and better engrafted when injected into ischemic hind limbs. Transcriptomic analysis identified cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) cell cycle inhibiting genes (p16, p21, and p57), the Notch signaling pathway (dll1, dll4, hes1, and hey1), and the endothelial cytokine il33 as highly expressed in CD34 + ECFC. Blocking the Notch pathway using a γ-secretase inhibitor (DAPT) led to reduced expression of cell cycle inhibitors, increased cell proliferation followed by a loss of self-renewal, and HPP colony formation capacity reflecting progenitor exhaustion. Similarly shRNA knockdown of p57 strongly affected self-renewal of ECFC colonies. ECFC hierarchy is defined by Notch signalling driving cell cycle regulators, progenitor quiescence and self-renewal potential.
Notch signaling regulates tissue morphogenesis through cell-cell interactions. The Notch effectors Hes1 and Hes7 are expressed in an oscillatory manner and regulate developmental processes such as neurogenesis and somitogenesis, respectively. Expression of the mRNA for the mouse Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) is also oscillatory. However, the dynamics of Dll1 protein expression are controversial, and their functional significance is unknown. Here, we developed a live-imaging system and found that Dll1 protein expression oscillated in neural progenitors and presomitic mesoderm cells. Notably, when Dll1 expression was accelerated or delayed by shortening or elongating the Dll1 gene, Dll1 oscillations became severely dampened or quenched at intermediate levels, as modeled mathematically. Under this condition, Hes1 and Hes7 oscillations were also dampened. In the presomitic mesoderm, steady Dll1 expression led to severe fusion of somites and their derivatives, such as vertebrae and ribs. In the developing brain, steady Dll1 expression inhibited proliferation of neural progenitors and accelerated neurogenesis, whereas optogenetic induction of Dll1 oscillation efficiently maintained neural progenitors. These results indicate that the appropriate timing of Dll1 expression is critical for the oscillatory networks and suggest the functional significance of oscillatory cell-cell interactions in tissue morphogenesis.
Author information:(1)Genetics Laboratory, Maternal and Child Health Hospital of Hubei Province, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) appear to explain many aspects of the neoplastic evolution of tumors and likely account for enhanced therapeutic resistance following treatment. Dysregulated Notch signaling, which affects CSCs plays an important role in pancreatic cancer progression. We have determined the ability of Quinomycin to inhibit CSCs and the Notch signaling pathway. Quinomycin treatment resulted in significant inhibition of proliferation and colony formation in pancreatic cancer cell lines, but not in normal pancreatic epithelial cells. Moreover, Quinomycin affected pancreatosphere formation. The compound also decreased the expression of CSC marker proteins DCLK1, CD44, CD24 and EPCAM. In addition, flow cytometry studies demonstrated that Quinomycin reduced the number of DCLK1+ cells. Furthermore, levels of Notch 1-4 receptors, their ligands Jagged1, Jagged2, DLL1, DLL3, DLL4 and the downstream target protein Hes-1 were reduced. The γ-secretase complex proteins, Presenilin 1, Nicastrin, Pen2, and APH-1, required for Notch activation also exhibited decreased expression. Ectopic expression of the Notch Intracellular Domain (NICD) partially rescued the cells from Quinomycin mediated growth suppression. To determine the effect of Quinomycin on tumor growth in vivo, nude mice carrying tumor xenografts were administered Quinomycin intraperitoneally every day for 21 days. Treatment with the compound significantly inhibited tumor xenograft growth, coupled with significant reduction in the expression of CSC markers and Notch signaling proteins. Together, these data suggest that Quinomycin is a potent inhibitor of pancreatic cancer that targets the stem cells by inhibiting Notch signaling proteins.
The endometrium undergoes substantial morphological and functional changes to become receptive to embryo implantation and to enable establishment of a successful pregnancy. Reduced Delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1, Notch ligand) in the endometrium is associated with infertility. DLL1 can be cleaved by 'a disintegrin and metalloprotease' (ADAM) proteases to produce a soluble ligand that may act to inhibit Notch signalling. We used an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to quantify soluble DLL1 in uterine lavages from fertile and infertile women in the secretory phase of the menstrual cycle. We also determined the cellular location and immunostaining intensity of ADAM12 and 17 in human endometrium throughout the cycle. Functional effects of soluble DLL1 in receptivity were analysed using in vitro adhesion and proliferation assays and gene expression analysis of Notch signalling targets. Soluble DLL1 was significantly increased in uterine lavage samples of infertile women compared with fertile women in the secretory phase of the menstrual cycle. This coincided with significantly increased ADAM17 immunostaining detected in the endometrial luminal epithelium in the mid-secretory phase in infertile women. Soluble DLL1 significantly inhibited the adhesive capacity of endometrial epithelial cells via downregulation of helix-loop-helix and hairy/enhancer of split family member HES1 mRNA. Thus, soluble DLL1 may serve as a suitable target or potential biomarker for receptivity.
Crosstalk between the Notch signaling pathway and Caudal-related homeobox 2 (Cdx2) has important roles in the development of Barrett's esophagus (BE). We investigated the expression and function of the Notch signaling ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) during the development of BE. We determined the expression levels of Dll1 and intracellular signaling molecules related to Notch signaling ((Notch1, Hairy/enhancer of split 1 (Hes1), and Atonal homolog 1 (ATOH1)) in human esophageal squamous and Barrett's epithelium samples. Next, those expression levels in esophageal squamous cells (Het-1A) and Barrett's esophageal cells (CP-A and BAR-T) following stimulation with either bile acids or gamma-secretase inhibitor were investigated. Finally, changes in those expression levels following transfection of a Cdx2 or Dll1 expression vector into Het-1A cells were examined. In addition, changes in those expression levels following knockdown of Cdx2 or Dll1 in CP-A cells were also examined. Dll1 was found to be upregulated and localized in the cell membrane and cytoplasm in BE. Bile acids enhanced cytoplasmic expression of Dll1 in CP-A cells, while cleaved Notch1 expression did not change, suggesting lack of a Dll1 agonistic effect on Notch signaling. Cells transfected with Cdx2 revealed significantly enhanced Dll1, while forced expression of Dll1 enhanced ATOH1, Cdx2, and MUC2 expression levels. Nevertheless, enhanced Dll1 did not induce Hes1 expression, suggesting that Dll1 may primarily function as an intracellular signaling molecule and not a Notch agonistic ligand in the canonical pathway. In addition, knockdown of Cdx2 completely abrogated any increase in Dll1 expression upon treatment with bile acids. Our results revealed a novel function of Dll1: facilitation of intestinal metaplasia in conjunction with Cdx2 expression. Furthermore, they suggest that intracellular induction of Dll1 expression in esophageal epithelial cells due to Cdx2 induction in response to bile acids has important roles in BE development.
BACKGROUND: Thymic involution is thought to be an important factor of age related immunodeficiency. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of human thymic senescence may lead to the discovery of novel therapeutic approaches aimed at the reestablishment of central and peripheral T cell repertoire.RESULTS: As an initial approach, here we report that the decline of human thymic FOXN1 transcription correlates with age, while other genes, DLL1, DLL4 and WNT4, essential for thymopoiesis, are constitutively transcribed. Using a human thymic epithelial cell line (hTEC), we show that FOXN1 expression is refractory to signals that induce FOXN1 transcription in primary 3D culture conditions and by stimulation of the canonical WNT signaling pathway. Blockage of FOXN1 induceability in the hTEC line may be mediated by an epigenetic mechanism, the CpG methylation of the FOXN1 gene.CONCLUSION: We showed a suppression of FOXN1 transcription both in cultured human thymic epithelial cells and in the aging thymus. We hypothesize that the underlying mechanism may be associated with changes of the DNA methylation state of the FOXN1 gene.
Notch signaling plays an important role in regulation of innate immune responses and trophoblast function during pregnancy. To identify the role of Notch signaling in preterm labor, Notch receptors (Notch1-4), its ligands (DLL (Delta-like protein)-1/3/4), Jagged 1/2) and Notch-induced transcription factor Hes1 were assessed during preterm labor. Preterm labor was initiated on gestation day 14.5 by intrauterine (IU) injection of peptidoglycan (PGN) and polyinosinic:cytidylic acid (poly(I:C). Notch1, Notch2, Notch4, DLL-1 and nuclear localization of Hes1 were significantly elevated in uterus and placenta during PGN+poly(I:C)-induced preterm labor. Ex vivo, Gamma secretase inhibitor (GSI) (inhibitor of Notch receptor processing) significantly diminished the PGN+poly(I:C)-induced secretion of M1- and M2-associated cytokines in decidual macrophages, and of proinflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-6) and chemokines (MIP-1β) in decidual and placental cells. Conversely, angiogenesis factors including Notch ligands Jagged 1/2 and DLL-4 and VEGF were significantly reduced in uterus and placenta during PGN+poly(I:C)-induced preterm labor. In vivo GSI treatment prevents PGN+poly(I:C)-induced preterm delivery by 55.5% and increased the number of live fetuses in-utero significantly compared to respective controls 48 hrs after injections. In summary, Notch signaling is activated during PGN+poly(I:C)-induced preterm labor, resulting in upregulation of pro-inflammatory responses, and its inhibition improves in-utero survival of live fetuses.
BACKGROUND: The Notch signaling pathway has been implicated in prostate development, maintenance and tumorigenesis by its key role in cell-fate determination, differentiation and proliferation. Therefore, we proposed to analyze Notch family members transcription and expression, including ligands (Dll1, 3, 4 and Jagged1 and 2), receptors (Notch1-4) and effectors (Hes1, 2, 5 and Hey1, 2, L), in both normal and tumor bearing mouse prostates to better understand the dynamics of Notch signaling in prostate tumorigenesis.METHODS: Wild type mice and transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate model (TRAMP) mice were sacrificed at 18, 24 or 30 weeks of age and the prostates collected and processed for either whole prostate or prostate cell specific populations mRNA analysis and for protein expression analysis by immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence.RESULTS: We observed that Dll1 and Dll4 are expressed in the luminal compartment of the mouse healthy prostate, whereas Jagged2 expression is restricted to the basal and stromal compartment. Additionally, Notch2 and Notch4 are normally expressed in the prostate luminal compartment while Notch2 and Notch3 are also expressed in the stromal layer of the healthy prostate. As prostate tumor development takes place, there is up-regulation of Notch components. Particularly, the prostate tumor lesions have increased expression of Jagged1 and 2, of Notch3 and of Hey1. We have also detected the presence of activated Notch3 in prostatic tumors that co-express Jagged1 and ultimately the Hey1 effector.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together our results point out the Notch axis Jagged1-2/Notch3/Hey1 to be important for prostate tumor development and worthy of additional functional studies and validation in human clinical disease.
Nrf2 is a master regulator of oxidative stresses through the induction of anti-oxidative genes. Nrf2 plays roles in maintaining murine hematopoietic stem cells and fly intestinal stem cells. The canonical Notch signaling pathway is also crucial for maintaining several types of adult stem cells including muscle stem cells (satellite cells). Here, we show that Dll1 induced Nrf2 expression in myogenic cells. In addition, primary targets of Notch signaling, Hesr1 and Hesr3, were involved in the up-regulation of Nrf2 mRNA and expression of its target genes. In vitro, Nrf2 had anti-myogenic and anti-proliferative effects on primary myoblasts. In vivo, although Nrf2-knockout mice showed decreased expression of its target genes in muscle stem cells, adult muscle stem cells of Nrf2-knockout mice did not exhibit the phenotype. Taken together, in muscle stem cells, the Notch-Hesr-Nrf2 axis is a pathway potentially inducing anti-oxidative genes, but muscle stem cells either do not require Nrf2-mediated anti-oxidative gene expression or they have a complementary system compensating for the loss of Nrf2.
Author information:(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China. drchenlq@163.com.
Activation of Notch signaling in hematopoietic cells by tumors contributes to immune escape. T-cell defects in tumors can be reversed by treating tumor-bearing mice with multivalent forms of the Notch receptor ligand DLL-1, but the immunologic correlates of this effect have not been elucidated. Here, we report mechanistic insights along with the efficacy of combinational treatments of multivalent DLL-1 with oncoprotein targeting drugs in preclinical mouse models of lung cancer. Systemic DLL-1 administration increased T-cell infiltration into tumors and elevated numbers of CD44(+)CD62L(+)CD8(+) memory T cells while decreasing the number of regulatory T cells and limiting tumor vascularization. This treatment was associated with upregulation of Notch and its ligands in tumor-infiltrating T cells enhanced expression of T-bet and phosphorylation of Stat1/2. Adoptive transfer of T cells from DLL1-treated tumor-bearing immunocompetent hosts into tumor-bearing SCID-NOD immunocompromised mice attenuated tumor growth and extended tumor-free survival in the recipients. When combined with the EGFR-targeted drug erlotinib, DLL-1 significantly improved progression-free survival by inducing robust tumor-specific T-cell immunity. In tissue culture, DLL1 induced proliferation of human peripheral T cells, but lacked proliferative or clonogenic effects on lung cancer cells. Our findings offer preclinical mechanistic support for the development of multivalent DLL1 to stimulate antitumor immunity.
In this research, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were isolated from mouse, and induced differentiation into myocardial cells in vitro after overexpression of miR-1a. The results showed that the BMSCs could induce differentiation into myocardial cells under the special condition medium, but when the miR-1a was over-expressed in BMSCs, the differentiation efficiency and induction time of myocardial cells from BMSCs could be promoted. This reason was demonstrated that Delta-like 1 (Dll-1) was a transcriptional repressor of myocardium gene expression during myocardium differentiation, miR-1a reduced Dll-1 levels, leading to the accumulation of myocardium gene mRNA and a dramatic increase in myocardium gene protein.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is a key molecule in the pathogenesis of familial and idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). We have identified two novel LRRK2-associated proteins, a HECT-type ubiquitin ligase, HERC2, and an adaptor-like protein with six repeated Neuralized domains, NEURL4. LRRK2 binds to NEURL4 and HERC2 via the LRRK2 Ras of complex proteins (ROC) domain and NEURL4, respectively. HERC2 and NEURL4 link LRRK2 to the cellular vesicle transport pathway and Notch signaling, through which the LRRK2 complex promotes the recycling of the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1)/Delta (Dl) through the modulation of endosomal trafficking. This process negatively regulates Notch signaling through cis-inhibition by stabilizing Dll1/Dl, which accelerates neural stem cell differentiation and modulates the function and survival of differentiated dopaminergic neurons. These effects are strengthened by the R1441G ROC domain-mutant of LRRK2. These findings suggest that the alteration of Notch signaling in mature neurons is a component of PD etiology linked to LRRK2.
AIM: To investigate whether dental pulp stem cells from carious teeth (DPSCs-CT) can differentiate into functional dopaminergic-like (DAergic) cells and provide an alternative cell source in regenerative medicine.METHODOLOGY: Dental pulp stem cells from healthy (DPSCs) and carious teeth (DPSCs-CT) were isolated from young donors. Both cell lines were expanded in identical culture conditions and subsequently differentiated towards DAergic-like cells using pre-defined dopaminergic cocktails. The dopaminergic efficiencies were evaluated both at gene and protein as well as at secretome levels.RESULTS: The efficiency of DPSCs-CT to differentiate into DAergic-like cells was not equivalent to that of DPSCs. This was further reflected in both gene and protein generation whereby key neuronal markers such as nestin, NURR1 and beta-III-tubulin were expressed significantly lower as compared to differentiated DPSCs (P < 0.05). In addition, expressions of transcriptomes related to neurogenesis revealed downregulation of more than 50% of the genes as compared to differentiated DPSC (P < 0.05). Amongst the notable genes were those from the transcription factors family (FLNA, MEF2C, NEUROG2), signalling pathway family (DLL1, Notch1, TGF-β1), neuro-inducer family (BDNF) and cell communication family (APBB1).CONCLUSIONS: DPSCs-CT were able to differentiate into DAergic-like cells but not as efficiently as DPSCs. As such, prior to use in regenerative medicine, stem cells from any source should be thoroughly investigated beyond conventional benchmarks such as that proposed by the International Society for Cellular Therapy (ISCT).
The formation of primordial follicles is a crucial process in the establishment of follicle pools required for the female's reproductive life span. For laying hens, ample follicles are a prerequisite for high laying performance. Notch signaling plays critical roles in germ cell cysts breakdown and in the formation of primordial follicles. Here, we investigated the role of Notch signaling in the ovarian development of post-hatch chicks. Results showed that around post-hatch day 4 (H4), the germ cell cysts broke apart, oocytes became surrounded by squamous pregranulosa cells, and the primordial follicles were then formed. Subsequently, we detected the expression of Notch signaling-related genes including Notch receptors (Notch1, 2), ligands (Jag1, 2 and Dll1, 4), and target genes (Hes1, Hey1). These genes all showed expression at H4 and some of these genes were up-regulated during primordial follicle formation. To evaluate the Notch signaling requirement for early follicular development, we adopted an in vitro ovary culture system. Suppression of Notch signaling by γ-secretase inhibitor induced a decrease of primordial follicles and an increase of germ cells in cysts. Attenuating Notch signaling also inhibited the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B pathways and suppressed cadherin expression. These results suggest that Notch signaling is endowed with an indispensable role in primordial follicle formation in post-hatch chicks.
Thyroid hormones control various aspects of gut development and homeostasis. The best-known example is in gastrointestinal tract remodeling during amphibian metamorphosis. It is well documented that these hormones act via the TR nuclear receptors, which are hormone-modulated transcription factors. Several studies have shown that thyroid hormones regulate the expression of several genes in the Notch signaling pathway, indicating a possible means by which they participate in the control of gut physiology. However, the mechanisms and biological significance of this control have remained unexplored. Using multiple in vivo and in vitro approaches, we show that thyroid hormones positively regulate Notch activity through the TRα1 receptor. From a molecular point of view, TRα1 indirectly controls Notch1, Dll1, Dll4 and Hes1 expression but acts as a direct transcriptional regulator of the Jag1 gene by binding to a responsive element in the Jag1 promoter. Our findings show that the TRα1 nuclear receptor plays a key role in intestinal crypt progenitor/stem cell biology by controlling the Notch pathway and hence the balance between cell proliferation and cell differentiation.
Comment in    J Card Fail. 2016 Mar;22(3):224-5.
PURPOSE: We performed exome sequencing in a breast cancer family without BRCA mutations.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A family that three sisters have a history of breast cancer was selected for analysis. There were no family members with breast cancer in the previous generation. Genetic testing for BRCA mutation was negative, even by the multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification method. Two sisters with breast cancer were selected as affected members, while the mother of the sisters was a non-affected member. Whole exome sequencing was performed on the HiSeq 2000 platform with paired-end reads of 101 bp in the three members.RESULTS: We identified 19,436, 19,468, and 19,345 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the coding regions. Among them, 8,759, 8,789, and 8,772 were non-synonymous SNPs, respectively. After filtering out 12,843 synonymous variations and 12,105 known variations with indels found in the dbSNP135 or 1000 Genomes Project database, we selected 73 variations in the samples from the affected sisters that did not occur in the sample from the unaffected mother. Using the Sorting Intolerant From Tolerant (SIFT), PolyPhen-2, and MutationTaster algorithms to predict amino acid substitutions, the XCR1, DLL1, TH, ACCS, SPPL3, CCNF, and SRL genes were risky among all three algorithms, while definite candidate genes could not be conclusively determined.CONCLUSION: Using exome sequencing, we found 7 variants for a breast cancer family without BRCA mutations. Genetic evidence of disease association should be confirmed by future studies.
Fabry disease is an X-linked lysosomal storage disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding the α-galactosidase A (α-Gal A) lysosomal enzyme, which results in globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) storage in vascular endothelial cells and different cell types throughout the body. Involvement of the kidney and heart is life threatening, and fibrosis of these organs is considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of Fabry disease. An increased concentration of deacylated Gb3 (lyso‑Gb3) in the plasma of symptomatic patients has also been suggested as a causative molecular event. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in renal fibrosis in Fabry disease, the present analyzed the changes in global gene expression prior to and following Gb3 or lyso‑Gb3 treatment in two types of kidney cell lines, human proximal renal tubular epithelial (HK‑2) and mouse renal glomerular mesangial (SV40 MES 13) cells. Gb3 and lyso‑Gb3 treatment regulated the expression of 199 and 328 genes in each cell type, demonstrating a >2.0‑fold change. The majority of the biological functions of the regulated genes were associated with fibrogenesis or epithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT). The gene expression patterns of sphingolipid‑treated HK‑2 cells were distinguishable from the patterns in the SV40 MES 13 cells. Several genes associated with the EMT were selected and evaluated further in kidney cells and in Fabry mouse kidney tissues. In the SV40 MES 13 cells, the DLL1, F8, and HOXA11 genes were downregulated, and FOXP2 was upregulated by treatment with Gb3 or lyso‑Gb3. In the HK‑2 cells, the ADAMTS6, BEST1, IL4, and MYH11 genes were upregulated. Upregulation of the FOXP2, COL15A1, IL4, and MYH11 genes was also observed in the Fabry mouse kidney tissues. The gene expression profiles in kidney cells following the addition of Gb3 or lyso‑Gb3 revealed substrate‑specific and cell‑specific patterns. These findings suggested that Gb3 and lyso‑Gb3 lead to renal fibrosis in Fabry disease through different biochemical modulations.
Notch signalling is a fundamental pathway that shapes the developing embryo and sustains adult tissues by direct communication between ligand and receptor molecules on adjacent cells. Among the ligands are two Delta paralogues, DLL1 and DLL4, that are conserved in mammals and share a similar structure and sequence. They activate the Notch receptor partly in overlapping expression domains where they fulfil redundant functions in some processes (e.g. maintenance of the crypt cell progenitor pool). In other processes, however, they appear to act differently (e.g. maintenance of foetal arterial identity) raising the questions of how similar DLL1 and DLL4 really are and which mechanism causes the apparent context-dependent divergence. By analysing mice that conditionally overexpress DLL1 or DLL4 from the same genomic locus (Hprt) and mice that express DLL4 instead of DLL1 from the endogenous Dll1 locus (Dll1Dll4ki), we found functional differences that are tissue-specific: while DLL1 and DLL4 act redundantly during the maintenance of retinal progenitors, their function varies in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM) where somites form in a Notch-dependent process. In the anterior PSM, every cell expresses both Notch receptors and ligands, and DLL1 is the only activator of Notch while DLL4 is not endogenously expressed. Transgenic DLL4 cannot replace DLL1 during somitogenesis and in heterozygous Dll1Dll4ki/+ mice, the Dll1Dll4ki allele causes a dominant segmentation phenotype. Testing several aspects of the complex Notch signalling system in vitro, we found that both ligands have a similar trans-activation potential but that only DLL4 is an efficient cis-inhibitor of Notch signalling, causing a reduced net activation of Notch. These differential cis-inhibitory properties are likely to contribute to the functional divergence of DLL1 and DLL4.
The oscillatory expression of Notch signaling in neural progenitors suggests that both repressors and activators of neural fate specification are expressed in the same progenitors. Since Notch1 regulates photoreceptor differentiation and contributes (together with Notch3) to ganglion cell fate specification, we hypothesized that genes encoding photoreceptor and ganglion cell fate activators would be highly expressed in Notch1 receptor-bearing (Notch1+) progenitors, directing these cells to differentiate into photoreceptors or into ganglion cells when Notch1 activity is diminished. To identify these genes, we used microarray analysis to study expression profiles of whole retinas and isolated from them Notch1+ cells at embryonic day 14 (E14) and postnatal day 0 (P0). To isolate Notch1+ cells, we utilized immunomagnetic cell separation. We also used Notch3 knockout (Notch3KO) animals to evaluate the contribution of Notch3 signaling in ganglion cell differentiation. Hierarchical clustering of 6,301 differentially expressed genes showed that Notch1+ cells grouped near the same developmental stage retina cluster. At E14, we found higher expression of repressors (Notch1, Hes5) and activators (Dll3, Atoh7, Otx2) of neuronal differentiation in Notch1+ cells compared to whole retinal cell populations. At P0, Notch1, Hes5, and Dll1 expression was significantly higher in Notch1+ cells than in whole retinas. Otx2 expression was more than thirty times higher than Atoh7 expression in Notch1+ cells at P0. We also observed that retinas of wild type animals had only 14% (P < 0.05) more ganglion cells compared to Notch3KO mice. Since this number is relatively small and Notch1 has been shown to contribute to ganglion cell fate specification, we suggested that Notch1 signaling may play a more significant role in RGC development than the Notch3 signaling cascade. Finally, our findings suggest that Notch1+ progenitors--since they heavily express both pro-ganglion cell (Atoh7) and pro-photoreceptor cell (Otx2) activators--can differentiate into either ganglion cells or photoreceptors.
Notch signaling pathway has been shown to be dysregulated in placentas with preeclampsia, but there has been a lack of studies on methylation of Notch family genes in this disorder. We therefore executed methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction and immunostaining for Notch 1 receptor and the activating ligand, Delta-like (DLL) 1, with placental tissues from cases of preeclampsia (early onset, n = 18; late-onset, n = 19) and other placental disorders, including maternal complications such as diabetes mellitus and collagen disease (n = 10), fetal growth restriction (n = 17), fetal anomaly (n = 23), preterm birth (n = 15), miscarriage (n = 25), and hydatidiform moles (n = 9) as well as term births (n = 12). The frequency of DLL1 methylation was higher in early onset preeclamptic placentas (61%) than the other subjects (0%-36%; P ≤ .016). Appreciable samples (36%) of miscarriage also represented DLL1 methylation. None of the samples studied showed Notch 1 methylation. On gestational period-matched analysis, the rate of DLL1 methylation was higher in early onset preeclampsia (83.3%) than preterm birth (13.3%; P < .001), with no significant differences in clinical backgrounds between the two. In this analysis, increase of syncytial knots and accelerated villous maturation were most prominent in DLL1-methylated placentas with early onset preeclampsia. Notch 1 and DLL1 expressions in villous trophoblasts and endothelial cells were significantly lower in early onset preeclamptic placentas as compared with preterm birth controls. In conclusion, altered Notch signaling via methylation of DLL1 is likely involved in possible disease-related mechanisms of early onset preeclampsia. Alternatively, DLL1 methylation in early onset preeclampsia could be a manifestation of a lack of placental maturation, similar to miscarriage.
AIMS: Notch signalling is essential for blood vessel formation. During angiogenesis, the Notch ligand DLL4 on the leading tip cell activates Notch receptors on the adjacent stalk cells. DLL4-Notch signalling is impaired by the Notch ligand JAG1 in endothelial cells. The Delta/Serrate/Lag2 (DSL) domain of the Notch ligands binds to the EGF-like repeats 11-13 of the Notch receptor. This study aimed to elucidate how soluble proteins containing these short domains interfere with Notch signalling during angiogenesis.METHODS AND RESULTS: Adenoviral vectors were generated to express the DSL domains of DLL1, DLL4, JAG1, and the Notch1 EGF-like repeats 11-13 fused to immunoglobulin-G heavy chain. These soluble ligand peptides inhibited Notch signalling in endothelial cells and this caused hyperbranching in cellular angiogenesis assays and in the neonatal mouse retina. The soluble Notch receptor peptides bound stronger to JAG1 than DLL4 ligands, resulting in increased signalling activity. This led to impaired tip cell formation and less vessel sprouting in the retina.CONCLUSION: The minimal binding domains of Notch ligands are sufficient to interfere with Notch signalling. The corresponding soluble Notch1 EGF11-13 peptide binds stronger to inhibitory Notch ligands and thereby promotes Notch signalling in endothelial cells.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a major cause of maternal mortality and morbidity, affecting 3-5% of all pregnancies. The Notch signaling pathway plays an important role during placental development, activating several target genes. Defects in the Notch pathway have adverse effect on placentation. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of receptors NOTCH1,-2,-3,-4, ligands DLL1,-3,-4, JAG1,-2 and target genes HEY1,-2 in placental tissue samples from 20 late preterm or term pregnancies complicated by PE versus 20 normal pregnancies. mRNA levels of the studied molecules were measured by quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR), while the protein expression of the intracellular domain of NOTCH2 (NICD2) and NOTCH3 (NICD3) was measured by Western Blot (WB). qRT-PCR analysis revealed that NOTCH1, NOTCH4 and DLL1 were not expressed in the placenta. On the contrary, NOTCH2, NOTCH3, DLL3, DLL4, JAG1, JAG2, HEY1 and HEY2 mRNA levels were downregulated in PE samples vs. controls (p<0.01). WB confirmed that NICD2 (p = 0.014) and NICD3 (p<0.001) protein levels were also lower in PE specimens. Statistical analysis revealed several significant associations: of NOTCH3 mRNA expression with smoking during pregnancy (p = 0.029), of NICD3 protein levels (p = 0.028) and DLL3 mRNA levels (p = 0.041) with birth weight centile, and of HEY2 transcript levels with parity (p = 0.034) and mode of delivery (p = 0.028). Our results suggest that Notch pathway downregulation is associated with PE. Further studies are required in order to determine the role of these molecules in PE pathogenesis and to evaluate their potential use for the early detection and treatment of PE.
Notch signaling has been shown to contribute to murine pancreatic development at various stages. Delta-like 1 (Dll1) or Jagged1 (Jag1) are the Notch ligands that solely function to trigger this signaling during the pancreatic bud stage (~e9.5) or after birth, respectively. However, it has not been elucidated whether these Notch ligands are required at the later stage (e10.5-18.5) when the particular pancreas structures form. Here, we detected the dual expression of Dll1 and Jag1 in the epithelium after e10.5, which was restricted to the ductal cell lineage, including centroacinar cells expressing Sox9, CD133 and Hes1 but not the ductal cell markers Hnf1β and DBA, at e18.5. To evaluate the significance of the Notch ligands during this period, we established double-floxed mice of Dll1 and Jag1 genes with Ptf1a-Cre knock-in allele and examined the effects on development. The abrogation of both ligands but not a single one led to the loss of centroacinar cells, which was due to the decrease in cell proliferation and the increase in cell death, as well as to the reduction of Sox9. These results suggested that Dll1 and Jag1 function redundantly and are necessary to maintain the centroacinar cells as an environmental niche in the developing pancreas.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Huangqi decoction was first described in Prescriptions of the Bureau of Taiping People׳s Welfare Pharmacy in the Song Dynasty (AD1078). It consists of Radix Astragali (Astragalus membranceus (Fisch.) Bge. Root, Huangqi) and Radix Glycyrrhizae (Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch., root and rhizome, Gancao), and it is an effective recipe that is usually used to treat consumptive disease and chronic liver diseases. Astragaloside (AS) is a main component of Radix Astragali had an effect similar to the Huangqi decoction on hepatic fibrosis.AIM OF THE STUDY: Cholestasis is associated with a number of chronic liver diseases and Notch signaling has been demonstrated to be involved in ductular reaction. Previous studies have shown that AS can prevent the progression of cholestatic liver fibrosis, however, whether AS affects the Notch signaling pathway is unclear.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cholestatic liver fibrosis was established by common bile duct ligation (BDL) in rats. At first weekend, the rats were randomly divided into a model group (BDL), an AS group, and a Sorafenib positive control group (SORA) and treated for 3 weeks. Bile duct proliferation and liver fibrosis were determined by tissue staining. Activation of the Notch signaling pathway was evaluated by analyzing expressions of Notch-1, -2, -3, -4, Jagged 1 (JAG1), Delta-like (DLL)-1, -3, -4, Hes1, Numb and RBP-Jκ. Activation of the Wnt signaling pathway was evaluated by analyzing expressions of Wnt-4, -5a, -5b, Frizzled (Fzd)-2, -3, -6 and β-catenin.RESULTS: (1) Compared with the BDL group, AS significantly reduced the deposition of collagen and the Hyp content of liver tissue and inhibited the activation of HSCs. In addition, AS significantly decreased the protein and mRNA expressions of TGF-β1 and α-SMA. In contrast, AS significantly enhanced expression of the Smad 7 protein. AS also reduced biliary epithelial cell proliferation, and reduced the mRNA and protein expressions of CK7, CK8, CK18, CK19, OV6, Sox9 and EpCAM. (2) The mRNA and protein expressions of Notch-2, -3, -4 and JAG1 were significantly reduced in the AS compared to the BDL group. In contrast, the mRNA and protein level of Numb was clearly enhanced after AS treatment.CONCLUSION: AS may prevent biliary liver fibrosis via inhibition of the Notch signaling pathway, thereby inhibiting the abnormal proliferation of biliary epithelial cells. Results indicate that AS may be a potential therapeutic drug for cholestatic liver disease.
Delta-like 3 (DLL3) is a member of the DSL family of Notch ligands in amniotes. In contrast to DLL1 and DLL4, the other Delta-like proteins in the mouse, DLL3 does not bind in trans to Notch and does not activate the receptor, but shows cis-interaction and cis-inhibitory properties on Notch signaling in vitro. Loss of the DSL protein DLL3 in the mouse results in severe somite patterning defects, which are virtually indistinguishable from the defects in mice that lack lunatic fringe (LFNG), a glycosyltransferase involved in modifying Notch signaling. Like LFNG, DLL3 is located within the trans-Golgi, however, its biochemical function is still unclear. Here, we show that i) both proteins interact, ii) epidermal growth factor like repeats 2 and 5 of DLL3 are O-fucosylated at consensus sites for POFUT1, and iii) further modified by FNG proteins in vitro. Embryos double homozygous for null mutations in Dll3 and Lfng are phenotypically indistinguishable from the single mutants supporting a potential common function. Mutation of the O-fucosylation sites in DLL3 does not disrupt the interaction of DLL3 with LFNG or full length Notch1or DLL1, and O-fucosylation-deficient DLL3 can still inhibit Notch in cis in vitro. However, in contrast to wild type DLL3, O-fucosylation-deficient DLL3 cannot compensate for the loss of endogenous DLL3 during somitogenesis in the embryo. Together our results suggest that the cis-inhibitory activity of DLL3 observed in cultured cells might not fully reflect its assumed essential physiological property, suggest that DLL3 and LFNG act together, and strongly supports that modification of DLL3 by O-linked fucose is essential for its function during somitogenesis.
Author information:(1)Department of Medical Genetics and Developmental Biology, School of Basic Medicine, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.
Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is the most prevalent type of OA and the cytokine, oncostatin M (OSM), may contribute to the pathogenesis of OA. However, the exact role of OSM in the development of knee OA and the underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood. This study was designed to detect the expression of OSM in the synovial tissue of patients with knee OA. Furthermore, we investigated whether Notch signaling is involved in the effects of OSM on MC3T3-E1 cell proliferation and differentiation. The synovial tissue of the knee joint was collected from 32 patients with knee OA. We detected OSM mRNA and protein expression (by RT-qPCR and western blot analysis, respectively) in the synovial tissue of the knee joint, and the expression level of OSM was higher in the patients with knee OA compared with the controls. MTT assay was used in the in vitro experiments to determine MC3T3-E1 cell proliferation, and cell differentiation was determined by measuring alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and osteocalcin (OCN) expression. The results from our in vitro experiments revealed that OSM induced bone formation by increasing osteoblast cell proliferation and differentiation. In addition, the expression levels of Notch ligand, receptor and target gene, including Delta-like 1 (Dll1), Notch homolog 1 (Notch1) and Hes family bHLH transcription factor 1 (Hes1) were decreased following treatment with OSM in a time-dependent manner in the MC3T3-E1 cells. A Dll1 overexpression vector was transfected into the cells to activate Notch signaling, and the results revealed that the activation of Notch signaling attenuated the effects of OSM on MC3T3-E1 cell proliferation and differentiation. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that elevated levels of OSM in synovial tissue induce bone formation by increasing osteoblast cell proliferation and differentiation. The Notch signaling pathway was found to be one of the signaling pathways that inhibit OSM-induced MC3T3-E1 cell proliferation and differentiation. The findings of this study may broaden our understanding of the mechanisms behing the role of OSM in the development of knee OA.
Arteriovenous differentiation is a key event during vascular development and hemodynamic forces play an important role. Arteriovenous gene expression is present before the onset of flow, however it remains plastic and flow can alter arteriovenous identity. Notch signaling is especially important in the genetic determination of arteriovenous identity. Nevertheless, the effect of the onset of circulation on Notch expression and signaling has not been studied. The aim of this study is therefore to investigate the interaction of Notch1 signaling and hemodynamic forces during early vascular development. We find that the onset of Notch1 expression coincides with the onset of flow, and that expression is pan-endothelial at the onset of circulation in mouse embryos and only becomes arterial-specific after remodeling has occurred. When we ablate flow in the early embryo, endothelial cells fail to express Notch1. We show that low and disturbed flow patterns upregulate Notch1 expression in endothelial cells in vitro, but that higher shear stress levels do not (≥10 dynes/cm2). Using siRNA, we knocked down Notch1 to investigate the role of Notch1 in mechanotransduction. When we applied shear stress levels similar to those found in embryonic arteries, we found an upregulation of Klf2, Dll1, Dll4, Jag1, Hey1, Nrp1 and CoupTFII but that only Dll4, Hey1, Nrp1 and EphB4 required Notch1 for flow-induced expression. Our results therefore indicate that Notch1 can modulate mechanotransduction but is not a critical mediator of the process since many genes mechanotransduce normally in the absence of Notch1, including genes involved in arteriovenous differentiation.
OBJECTIVE: Different profiles of Notch signaling mediate naive T cell differentiation which might be involved in pulmonary emphysema and fibrosis.METHODS: C57BL/6 mice were randomized into cigarette smoke (CS) exposure, bleomycin (BLM) exposure, and two separate groups of control for sham exposure to CS or BLM. The paratracheal lymph nodes of the animals were analyzed by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. Morphometry of the lung parenchyma, measurement of the cytokines, and cytometry of the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were also done accordingly.RESULTS: In comparison with controls, all Notch receptors and ligands were upregulated by chronic CS exposure, especially Notch3 and DLL1 (P < 0.01), and this was in line with emphysema-like morphology and Th1-biased inflammation. While Notch3 and DLL1 were downregulated by BLM exposure (P < 0.01), those was in line with fibrotic lung remodeling and Th2 polarization.CONCLUSIONS: This founding implies that the CS exposure but not the BLM exposure is capable of initiating Notch signaling in lymphoid tissue of the lung, which is likely relevant to the pathogenesis of pulmonary emphysema. Unable to initiate the Th1 response or inhibit it may lead to Th2 polarization and aberrant repair.
Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) in the circulatory system have been suggested to maintain vascular homeostasis and contribute to adult vascular regeneration and repair. These processes require that EPCs recognize the extracellular matrix (ECM), migrate, differentiate, and undergo tube morphogenesis. The ECM plays a critical role by providing biochemical and biophysical cues that regulate cellular behavior. Here, we tested the importance of transforming growth factor-beta-induced protein (TGFBIp) in regulation of the differentiation and angiogenic potential of human cord blood-derived EPCs (CD133(+) C-kit(+) Lin(-) cells). EPCs displayed increased endothelial differentiation when plated on TGFBIp compared to fibronectin. EPCs also exhibited increased adhesion and migration upon TGFBIp stimulation. Moreover, TGFBIp induced phosphorylation of the intracellular signaling molecules SRC, FAK, AKT, JNK, and ERK in EPCs. Using integrin-neutralizing antibodies, we showed that the effects of TGFBIp on EPCs are mediated by integrins α4 and α5. Furthermore, TGFBIp increased the adhesion, migration, and tube formation of CD34(+) mouse bone marrow stem cells in vitro. Gene expression analysis of EPCs plated on TGFBIp revealed that EPCs stimulated by TGFBIp exhibit increased expression of Notch ligands, such as delta-like 1 (DLL1) and Jagged1 (JAG1), through nuclear factor-kappa B signaling activation. Collectively, our findings demonstrate, for the first time, that locally generated TGFBIp at either wounds or tumor sites may contribute to differentiation and angiogenic function of EPCs by augmenting the recruitment of EPCs and regulating the expression of endothelial genes DLL1 and JAG1.
The Notch pathway plays multiple key roles in tumorigenesis, and its signaling components have therefore aroused great interest as targets for emerging therapies. Here, we show that inhibition of Notch, using a soluble receptor Notch1 decoy, unexpectedly caused a remarkable increase in liver metastases from neuroblastoma and breast cancer cells. Increased liver metastases were also seen after treatment with the γ-secretase inhibitor PF-03084014. Transgenic mice with heterozygous loss of Notch1 demonstrated a marked increase in hepatic metastases, indicating that Notch1 signaling acts as metastatic suppressor in the liver microenvironment. Inhibition of DLL1/4 with ligand-specific Notch1 decoys increased sprouting of sinusoidal endothelial cells into micrometastases, thereby supporting early metastatic angiogenic growth. Inhibition of tumor-derived JAG1 signaling activated hepatic stellate cells, increasing their recruitment to vasculature of micrometastases, thereby supporting progression to macrometastases. These results demonstrate that inhibition of Notch causes pathologic activation of liver stromal cells, promoting angiogenesis and growth of hepatic metastases. Our findings have potentially serious implications for Notch inhibition therapy.
Erratum in    EMBO J. 2015 Sep 14;34(18):2383. Rademann, Jörg [added].
Hypoxia is a hallmark of solid tumors including glioblastoma (GBM). Its synergism with Notch signaling promotes progression in different cancers. However, Notch signaling exhibits pleiotropic roles and the existing literature lacks a comprehensive understanding of its perturbations under hypoxia in GBM with respect to all components of the pathway. We identified the key molecular cluster(s) characteristic of the Notch pathway response in hypoxic GBM tumors and gliomaspheres. Expression of Notch and hypoxia genes was evaluated in primary human GBM tissues by q-PCR. Clustering and statistical analyses were applied to identify the combination of hypoxia markers correlated with upregulated Notch pathway components. We found well-segregated tumor-clusters representing high and low HIF-1α/PGK1-expressors which accounted for differential expression of Notch signaling genes. In combination, a five-hypoxia marker set (HIF-1α/PGK1/VEGF/CA9/OPN) was determined as the best predictor for induction of Notch1/Dll1/Hes1/Hes6/Hey1/Hey2. Similar Notch-axis genes were activated in gliomaspheres, but not monolayer cultures, under moderate/severe hypoxia (2%/0.2% O2). Preliminary evidence suggested inverse correlation between patient survival and increased expression of constituents of the hypoxia-Notch gene signature. Together, our findings delineated the Notch-axis maximally associated with hypoxia in resected GBM, which might be prognostically relevant. Its upregulation in hypoxia-exposed gliomaspheres signify them as a better in-vitro model for studying hypoxia-Notch interactions than monolayer cultures.
The Notch pathway is a fundamental signalling system in most multicellular animals. We have determined the X-ray crystal structure of the extracellular domain of the Notch ligand delta-like ligand-1 (Dll-1). The structure incorporates the N-terminal C2 domain, receptor-binding DSL domain and the first six (of eight) EGF (epidermal growth factor)-like repeats, which form a highly extended conformation, confirmed by analytical ultracentrifugation. Comparison of our structure with a fragment of Jagged1 ligand allows us to dissect the similarities and differences between the ligand families. Differences in the C2 domains of Dll-1 and Jagged1 suggest their lipid-binding properties are likely to differ. A conserved hydrophobic patch on the surface of both Dll-1 and Jagged1 provides a likely receptor-interaction site that is common to both ligands. We also explore the binding affinity of Dll-1 for a fragment of Notch1 using different techniques. Apparent binding affinities vary when different techniques are used, explaining discrepancies in the literature. Using analytical ultracentrifugation, we perform for the first time binding analyses where both receptor and ligand are in solution, which confirms a Kd of 10 μM for this interaction.
Rejection remains a major clinical challenge limiting allograft survival after solid organ transplantation. Both cellular and humoral immunity contribute to this complication, with increased recognition of Ab-mediated damage during acute and chronic rejection. Using a mouse model of MHC-mismatched heart transplantation, we report markedly protective effects of Notch inhibition, dampening both T cell and Ab-driven rejection. T cell-specific pan-Notch blockade prolonged heart allograft survival and decreased IFN-γ and IL-4 production by alloreactive T cells, especially when combined with depletion of recipient CD8(+) T cells. These effects were associated with decreased infiltration by conventional T cells and an increased proportion of regulatory T cells in the graft. Transient administration of neutralizing Abs specific for delta-like (Dll)1/4 Notch ligands in the peritransplant period led to prolonged acceptance of allogeneic hearts, with superior outcome over Notch inhibition only in T cells. Systemic Dll1/4 inhibition decreased T cell cytokines and graft infiltration, germinal center B cell and plasmablast numbers, as well as production of donor-specific alloantibodies and complement deposition in the transplanted hearts. Dll1 or Dll4 inhibition alone provided partial protection. Thus, pathogenic signals delivered by Dll1/4 Notch ligands early after transplantation promote organ rejection through several complementary mechanisms. Transient interruption of these signals represents an attractive new therapeutic strategy to enhance long-term allograft survival.
Notch receptors play an essential role in the regulation of central cellular processes during embryonic and postnatal development. The mammalian genome encodes for four Notch paralogs (Notch 1-4), which are activated by three Delta-like (Dll1/3/4) and two Serrate-like (Jagged1/2) ligands. Further, non-canonical Notch ligands such as epidermal growth factor like protein 7 (EGFL7) have been identified and serve mostly as antagonists of Notch signaling. The Notch pathway prevents neuronal differentiation in the central nervous system by driving neural stem cell maintenance and commitment of neural progenitor cells into the glial lineage. Notch is therefore often implicated in the development of brain tumors, as tumor cells share various characteristics with neural stem and progenitor cells. Notch receptors are overexpressed in gliomas and their oncogenicity has been confirmed by gain- and loss-of-function studies in vitro and in vivo. To this end, special attention is paid to the impact of Notch signaling on stem-like brain tumor-propagating cells as these cells contribute to growth, survival, invasion, and recurrence of brain tumors. Based on the outcome of ongoing studies in vivo, Notch-directed therapies such as γ-secretase inhibitors and blocking antibodies have entered and completed various clinical trials. This review summarizes the current knowledge on Notch signaling in brain tumor formation and therapy.
BACKGROUND AIMS: Human cord blood (CB) is enriched in circulating endothelial colony forming cells (ECFCs) that display high proliferative potential and in vivo vessel forming ability. Because Notch signaling is critical for embryonic blood vessel formation in utero, we hypothesized that Notch pathway activation may enhance cultured ECFC vasculogenic properties in vivo.METHODS: In vitro ECFC stimulation with an immobilized chimeric Notch ligand (Delta-like1(ext-IgG)) led to significant increases in the mRNA and protein levels of Notch regulated Hey2 and EphrinB2 that were blocked by treatment with γ-secretase inhibitor addition. However, Notch stimulated preconditioning in vitro failed to enhance ECFC vasculogenesis in vivo. In contrast, in vivo co-implantation of ECFCs with OP9-Delta-like 1 stromal cells that constitutively expressed the Notch ligand delta-like 1 resulted in enhanced Notch activated ECFC-derived increased vessel density and enlarged vessel area in vivo, an effect not induced by OP9 control stromal implantation.RESULTS: This Notch activation was associated with diminished apoptosis in the exposed ECFC.CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that Notch pathway activation in ECFC in vivo via co-implanted stromal cells expressing delta-like 1 promotes vasculogenesis and augments blood vessel formation via diminishing apoptosis of the implanted ECFC.
Tumor-initiating cells (also known as cancer stem cells) are the subpopulation of cells shown to be responsible for tumor initiation, maintenance and recurrence. In breast cancer, CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) cells were identified as tumor-initiating cells. We previously reported that a Gemini vitamin D analog, 1,25-dihydroxy-20R-21(3-hydroxy-3-deuteromethyl-4,4,4-trideuterobutyl)-23-yne-26,27-hexafluoro-cholecalciferol (BXL0124), reduced CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) cells in MCF10DCIS basal-like breast cancer cells. Since Notch has been identified as one of the key signaling pathways involved in breast cancer stem cells, the effect of BXL0124 on the Notch signaling pathway was investigated in breast cancer. The CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) subpopulation of MCF10DCIS cells showed elevated Notch1 signaling and increased cell proliferation compared to the CD44(+)/CD24(high) subpopulation. Treatment with the Gemini vitamin D analog BXL0124 decreased the level of activated Notch1 receptor. In addition, mRNA and protein levels of the Notch ligands, Jagged-1, Jagged-2 and DLL1, were significantly reduced by treatment with BXL0124, which was followed by repression of c-Myc, a key downstream target of Notch signaling. Interestingly, HES1, a known downstream target of Notch signaling, was rapidly induced by treatment with BXL0124. The inhibitory effect of BXL0124 on Notch signaling was reversed by knockdown of HES1. Overexpression of HES1 inhibited Notch1 signaling and reduced the CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) subpopulation, confirming a role of HES1 in Notch1 signaling. In conclusion, the Gemini vitamin D analog, BXL0124, represses the tumor-initiating subpopulation by HES1-mediated inhibition of Notch1 signaling. The present study demonstrates BXL0124 as a potent inhibitor of Notch signaling to target tumor-initiating cells in basal-like breast cancer. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled "17th Vitamin D Workshop".
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationship between Notch-signaling pathway and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) through the expressions of Notch-1, DLL-1, and p-mTOR, and to explore its correlation with tumorigenesis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The expressions of Notch1, DLL-1, and p-mTOR were detected in 21 cases of FAP polyps, 20 cases of colorectal inflammatory polyp, and 20 cases of poorly differentiated colorectal cancer by Western blotting and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The protein and mRNA expressions of these genes were then compared among the FAP group, colorectal adenoma group, and colorectal cancer group.RESULTS: The protein and mRNA expressions of Notch-1, DLL-1, and p-mTOR in the FAP group were significantly higher than those in colorectal adenoma group; furthermore, they were significantly higher in the colorectal cancer group (all p < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Notch signaling is activated in FAP. The activated Notch-signaling pathway may play an important role in the malignant transformation and tumorigenesis.
During somitogenesis, epithelial somites form from the pre-somitic mesoderm (PSM) in a periodic manner. This periodicity is regulated by a molecular oscillator, known as the 'segmentation clock', that is characterised by an oscillatory pattern of gene expression that sweeps the PSM in a caudal-rostral direction. Key components of the segmentation clock are intracellular components of the Notch, Wnt and FGF pathways, and it is widely accepted that intracellular negative-feedback loops regulate oscillatory gene expression. However, an open question in the field is how intracellular oscillations are coordinated, in the form of spatiotemporal waves of expression, across the PSM. In this study, we provide a potential mechanism for this process. We show at the mRNA level that the Notch1 receptor and Delta-like 1 (Dll1) ligand vary dynamically across the PSM of both chick and mouse. Remarkably, we also demonstrate similar dynamics at the protein level; hence, the pathway components that mediate intercellular coupling themselves exhibit oscillatory dynamics. Moreover, we quantify the dynamic expression patterns of Dll1 and Notch1, and show they are highly correlated with the expression patterns of two known clock components [Lfng mRNA and the activated form of the Notch receptor (cleaved Notch intracellular domain, NICD)]. Lastly, we show that Notch1 is a target of Notch signalling, whereas Dll1 is Wnt regulated. Regulation of Dll1 and Notch1 expression thus links the activity of Wnt and Notch, the two main signalling pathways driving the clock.
Decidualization, the transformation of the human uterine mucosa into the endometrium of pregnancy, is critical for successful implantation and embryonic development. However, key regulatory factors controlling differentiation of uterine stromal cells into hormone-secreting decidual cells have not been fully elucidated. Hence, we herein investigated the role of the Notch signaling pathway in human decidual stromal cells (HDSC) isolated from early pregnancy samples. Immunofluorescence of first trimester decidual tissues revealed expression of Notch2 receptor and its putative, membrane-anchored interaction partners Jagged1, Delta-like (DLL) 1 and DLL4 in stromal cells whereas other Notch receptors and ligands were absent from these cells. During in vitro differentiation with estrogen/progesterone (E2P4) and/or cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) HDSC constitutively expressed Notch2 and weakly downregulated Jagged1 mRNA and protein, measured by quantitative PCR (qPCR) and Western blotting, respectively. However, increased levels of DLL1 and DLL4 were observed in the decidualizing cultures. Transfection of a Notch luciferase reporter and qPCR of the Notch target gene hairy and enhancer of split 1 (HES1) revealed an induction of canonical Notch activity during in vitro differentiation. In contrast, treatment of HDSC with a chemical Notch/γ-secretase inhibitor decreased cAMP/E2P4-stimulated Notch luciferase activity, HES1 transcript levels and mRNA expression of the decidual marker genes prolactin (PRL) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 1 (IGFBP1). Similarly, siRNA-mediated gene silencing or antibody-mediated blocking of Notch2 diminished HES1, PRL and IGFBP1 mRNA levels as well as secreted PRL protein. In summary, the data suggest that canonical, Notch2-dependent signaling plays a role in human decidualization.
Over 100 years have passed since the first observation of the notched wing phenotype in Drosophila melanogaster, and significant progress has been made to characterize the role of the Notch receptor, its ligands, downstream targets, and cross-talk with other signaling pathways. The canonical Notch pathway with four Notch receptors (Notch1-4) and five ligands (DLL1, 3-4, Jagged 1-2) is an evolutionarily conserved cell signaling pathway that plays critical roles in cell-fate determination, differentiation, development, tissue patterning, cell proliferation, and death. In cancer, these roles have a critical impact on tumor behavior and response to therapy. Because the role of Notch remains tissue and context dependent, alterations within this pathway may lead to tumor suppressive or oncogenic phenotypes. Although no FDA-approved therapies currently exist for the Notch pathway, multiple therapeutics (e.g., demcizumab, tarextumab, GSI MK-0752, R04929097, and PF63084014) have been developed to target different aspects of this pathway for both hematologic and solid malignancies. Understanding the context-specific effects of the Notch pathway will be important for individualized therapies targeting this pathway.
Comment in    Cancer Discov. 2015 Feb;5(2):112-4.
Intrinsic Notch signaling in intestinal epithelial cells restricts secretory cell differentiation. In gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT), stromal cells located beneath the follicle-associated epithelium (FAE) abundantly express the Notch ligand delta-like 1 (Dll1). Here, we show that mice lacking Rbpj-a gene encoding a transcription factor implicated in Notch signaling-in intestinal epithelial cells have defective GALT maturation. This defect can be attributed to the expansion of goblet cells, which leads to the down-regulation of CCL20 in FAE. These data demonstrate that epithelial Notch signaling maintained by stromal cells contributes to the full maturation of GALT by restricting secretory cell differentiation in FAE.
The aim of the study was to investigate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs1861612 of delta/notch-like Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF)-related receptor (DNER) and rs1884190 in the Delta-like 1 ligand (DLL1) gene and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) susceptibility in a Chinese Han population. DNER rs1861612 and DLL1 rs1884190 polymorphisms were genotyped in patients with T2DM and age- and sex-matched T2DM-free controls from a Chinese Han population. A total of 298 patients with T2DM and 500 controls were enrolled in this study. We found that TC and TT genotypes of rs1861612 and variant T were associated with a significantly increased risk of T2DM. In contrast, the AG and AA genotypes of rs1884190 were not significantly associated with the risk of T2DM, even after further stratification analysis based on age or sex. Our results showed that DNER rs1861612 C to T change and variant T genotype may contribute to T2DM in a Chinese Han population.
Somatic stem cells hold attractive potential for the treatment of muscular dystrophies (MDs). Mesoangioblasts (MABs) constitute a myogenic subset of muscle pericytes and have been shown to efficiently regenerate dystrophic muscles in mice and dogs. In addition, HLA-matched MABs are currently being tested in a phase 1 clinical study on Duchenne MD patients (EudraCT #2011-000176-33). Many reports indicate that the Notch pathway regulates muscle regeneration and satellite cell commitment. However, little is known about Notch-mediated effects on other resident myogenic cells. To possibly potentiate MAB-driven regeneration in vivo, we asked whether Notch signaling played a pivotal role in regulating MAB myogenic capacity. Through different approaches of loss- and gain-of-function in murine and human MABs, we determined that the interplay between Delta-like ligand 1 (Dll1)-activated Notch1 and Mef2C supports MAB commitment in vitro and ameliorates engraftment and functional outcome after intra-arterial delivery in dystrophic mice. Furthermore, using a transgenic mouse model of conditional Dll1 deletion, we demonstrated that Dll1 ablation, either on the injected cells, or on the receiving muscle fibers, impairs MAB regenerative potential. Our data corroborate the perspective of advanced combinations of cell therapy and signaling tuning to enhance therapeutic efficaciousness of somatic stem cells.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2014;9(12):e115811.
Erratum in    Elife. 2014;3:e04998.
Craniofacial and trunk skeletal muscles are evolutionarily distinct and derive from cranial and somitic mesoderm, respectively. Different regulatory hierarchies act upstream of myogenic regulatory factors in cranial and somitic mesoderm, but the same core regulatory network - MyoD, Myf5 and Mrf4 - executes the myogenic differentiation program. Notch signaling controls self-renewal of myogenic progenitors as well as satellite cell homing during formation of trunk muscle, but its role in craniofacial muscles has been little investigated. We show here that the pool of myogenic progenitor cells in craniofacial muscle of Dll1(LacZ/Ki) mutant mice is depleted in early fetal development, which is accompanied by a major deficit in muscle growth. At the expense of progenitor cells, supernumerary differentiating myoblasts appear transiently and these express MyoD. The progenitor pool in craniofacial muscle of Dll1(LacZ/Ki) mutants is largely rescued by an additional mutation of MyoD. We conclude from this that Notch exerts its decisive role in craniofacial myogenesis by repression of MyoD. This function is similar to the one previously observed in trunk myogenesis, and is thus conserved in cranial and trunk muscle. However, in cranial mesoderm-derived progenitors, Notch signaling is not required for Pax7 expression and impinges little on the homing of satellite cells. Thus, Dll1 functions in satellite cell homing and Pax7 expression diverge in cranial- and somite-derived muscle.
γδ T cells are exported from the thymus as innate-like lymphocytes that can immediately respond to antigens. In the thymus, γδ T cells diverge into functionally distinct lineages. It is not known whether γδ T cells differentiate into regulatory cells that express Foxp3, which is an essential transcription factor for CD4(+) regulatory T cells. In this study, we analyzed CD25(+) immature thymocytes that give rise to both αβ and γδ thymocytes. These precursor cells have the potential to differentiate into Foxp3(+) γδ T cells on a stromal cell line, TSt4-Dll1. Development of Foxp3(+) γδ thymocytes in this culture was dependent on IL-2. IL-2 stimulation induced Id3, Egr1, and Egr3 expression in CD25(+) immature thymocytes, suggesting that it could activate signaling molecules that are downstream of TCR signaling. The induction of Foxp3 in precursor γδ T cells suggested that IL-2 could activate the Foxp3 gene early in thymocyte development.
BACKGROUND: Notch signalling regulates cell fate in most tissues, promoting precursor cell proliferation in some, but differentiation in others. Accordingly, downregulation or overactivity variously contributes to cancer development. So far, little is known about Notch pathway activity and function in the normal urothelium and in urothelial carcinoma (UC). We have therefore investigated expression of Notch pathway components in UC tissues and cell lines and studied the function of one receptor, NOTCH1, in detail.METHODS: Expression of canonical Notch pathway components were studied in UC and normal bladder tissues by immunohistochemistry and quantitative RT-PCR and in UC cell lines and normal cultured urothelial cells by qRT-PCR, immunocytochemistry and Western blotting. Pathway activity was measured by reporter gene assays. Its influence on cell proliferation was investigated by γ-secretase inhibition. Effects of NOTCH1 restoration were followed by measuring cell cycle distribution, proliferation, clonogenicity and nuclear morphology.RESULTS: NOTCH1 and its ligand, DLL1, were expressed at plasma membranes and in the cytoplasm of cells in the upper normal urothelium layer, but became downregulated in UC tissues, especially in high-stage tumours. In addition, the proteins were often delocalized intracellularly. According differences were observed in UC cell lines compared to normal urothelial cells. Canonical Notch pathway activity in reporter assays was repressed in UC cell lines compared to normal cells and a mammary carcinoma cell line, but was induced by transfected NOTCH1. Inhibitors of Notch signalling acting at the γ-secretase step did not affect UC cell proliferation at concentrations efficacious against a cell line with known Notch activity. Surprisingly, overexpression of NOTCH1 into UC cell lines did not significantly affect short-term cell proliferation, but induced nuclear abnormalities and diminished clonogenicity.CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that canonical Notch signalling is suppressed in urothelial carcinoma mainly through downregulation of NOTCH1. These findings can be explained by proposing that canonical Notch signalling may promote differentiation in the urothelium, like in many squamous epithelia, and its suppression may therefore be advantageous for tumour progression. As an important corollary, inhibition of canonical Notch signalling is unlikely to be efficacious and might be counter-productive in the treatment of urothelial carcinoma.
Although the involvement of the disintegrin and metalloproteinase ADAM10 in several areas of vascular biology is now clearly established, its role in vascular inflammation and in Notch signaling at the endothelial level remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that ADAM10 specifically localizes in the CD31(+) endothelial cells (ECs) in normal human cardiac tissues and in cultured primary arterial ECs. In vitro, ADAM10 drives a specific regulation of the Notch pathway in vascular ECs. Using an ADAM10 gain and loss of function approach we show an ADAM10-dependent regulation of Dll1 and Dll4 expression in association with changes in Hes1 and Hey1 expression. We also identified IL-6, IL-8, MCP-1 and sVCAM-1 as novel targets of ADAM10 upon inflammation. Although Notch pathway does not seem to be required for the production of IL-8, MCP-1 and sVCAM-1, the release of IL-6 by ECs occurred through ADAM10 and a canonical Notch signaling pathway, dependent of γ-secretase activity. Moreover, sustained expression of Dll4 mediated by ADAM10 elicits an increased release of IL-6 suggesting a strong implication of the specific Dll4 signaling in this mechanism. Modulation of IL-6 mediated by ADAM10/Notch signaling required PI3K activity. Thus, our findings suggest that ADAM10/Dll4 signaling is a major signaling pathway in ECs driving inflammatory events involved in inflammation and immune cell recruitment.
Cycling Lgr5+ stem cells fuel the rapid turnover of the adult intestinal epithelium. The existence of quiescent Lgr5+ cells has been reported, while an alternative quiescent stem cell population is believed to reside at crypt position +4. Here, we generated a novel Ki67RFP knock-in allele that identifies dividing cells. Using Lgr5-GFP;Ki67RFP mice, we isolated crypt stem and progenitor cells with distinct Wnt signaling levels and cell cycle features and generated their molecular signature using microarrays. Stem cell potential of these populations was further characterized using the intestinal organoid culture. We found that Lgr5high stem cells are continuously in cell cycle, while a fraction of Lgr5low progenitors that reside predominantly at +4 position exit the cell cycle. Unlike fast dividing CBCs, Lgr5low Ki67- cells have lost their ability to initiate organoid cultures, are enriched in secretory differentiation factors, and resemble the Dll1 secretory precursors and the label-retaining cells of Winton and colleagues. Our findings support the cycling stem cell hypothesis and highlight the cell cycle heterogeneity of early progenitors during lineage commitment.
To investigate the spatial and temporal immunolocalisation and staining intensity of the Notch signalling family in endometrium of fertile and infertile women, endometrial biopsies were collected by curettage from 25 fertile women across the menstrual cycle and 10 infertile women in the mid secretory phase of menstrual cycle. Immunohisotchemistry was completed for NOTCH1, -2, -3, -4, cleaved Notch, DLL1, -3, -4, JAGGED1, -2, HES and NUMB and immunostaining intensity measured in both the endometrial glandular and luminal epithelium. NOTCH1 and the ligands DLL1 and JAGGED1 were key proteins displaying increased staining intensity during the receptive phase of the menstrual cycle and dysregulated in infertile endometrium. Conversely, NUMB a negative regulator of Notch signalling was decreased in the mid secretory phase of the menstrual cycle in fertile women and increased with infertility.
In obesity, elevated fat mass and ectopic fat accumulation are associated with changes in adipokine secretion, which may link obesity to inflammation and the development of insulin resistance. However, relationships among individual adipokines and between adipokines and parameters of obesity, glucose metabolism or inflammation are largely unknown. Serum concentrations of 20 adipokines were measured in 141 Caucasian obese men (n = 67) and women (n = 74) with a wide range of body weight, glycemia and insulin sensitivity. Unbiased, distance-based hierarchical cluster analyses were performed to recognize patterns among adipokines and their relationship with parameters of obesity, glucose metabolism, insulin sensitivity and inflammation. We identified two major adipokine clusters related to either (1) body fat mass and inflammation (leptin, ANGPTL3, DLL1, chemerin, Nampt, resistin) or insulin sensitivity/hyperglycemia, and lipid metabolism (vaspin, clusterin, glypican 4, progranulin, ANGPTL6, GPX3, RBP4, DLK1, SFRP5, BMP7, adiponectin, CTRP3 and 5, omentin). In addition, we found distinct adipokine clusters in subgroups of patients with or without type 2 diabetes (T2D). Logistic regression analyses revealed ANGPTL6, DLK1, Nampt and progranulin as strongest adipokine correlates of T2D in obese individuals. The panel of 20 adipokines predicted T2D compared to a combination of HbA1c, HOMA-IR and fasting plasma glucose with lower sensitivity (78% versus 91%) and specificity (76% versus 94%). Therefore, adipokine patterns may currently not be clinically useful for the diagnosis of metabolic diseases. Whether adipokine patterns are relevant for the predictive assessment of intervention outcomes needs to be further investigated.
OBJECTIVE: We previously reported that blockade of the Notch ligand delta-like protein 1 (DLL-1) suppressed osteoclastogenesis and ameliorated arthritis in a mouse model of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanisms by which joint inflammation were suppressed have not yet been revealed. This study was undertaken to determine whether DLL-1 regulates the production of RA-related proinflammatory cytokines.METHODS: Joint cells from mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and mouse fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) were cultured with or without stimuli in the presence of neutralizing antibodies against Notch ligands, and the production of proinflammatory cytokines was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The expression of Notch receptors and ligands on mouse joint cells was determined by flow cytometry.RESULTS: The production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) by mouse joint cells with or without stimulation was suppressed by DLL-1 blockade. DLL-1 blockade also suppressed the levels of IL-6 and matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP-3) in the joint fluid in a mouse model of RA. However, the production of tumor necrosis factor α and IL-1β was not suppressed by DLL-1 blockade. The production of IL-6 and MMP-3 by mouse FLS was enhanced by DLL-1 stimulation as well as Notch-2 activation. Among joint cells, DLL-1 was not expressed on mouse FLS but was expressed on macrophages.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the interaction of DLL-1 on mouse joint macrophages with Notch-2 on mouse FLS enhances the production of IL-6 and MMP-3. Therefore, suppression of IL-6, GM-CSF, and MMP-3 production by DLL-1 blockade might be responsible for the amelioration of arthritis in a mouse model of RA.
BACKGROUND: Hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD), a virus-induced infectious disease that usually affects infants and children, has an increased incidence in China in recent years. This study attempted to investigate the role of the Notch signaling pathway in the pathogenesis of HFMD.METHODS: Eighty-two children diagnosed with HFMD were enrolled into this study. The HFMD group was further divided into the uncomplicated HFMD and HFMD with encephalitis groups. The control group included 40 children who underwent elective surgery for treatment of inguinal hernias.RESULTS: Children with HFMD displayed significantly reduced CD3+, CD3+CD4+ and CD3+CD8+ cell subsets, but substantially enhanced CD3-CD19+ cell subset (p<0.05 versus control subjects). The expression levels of Notch ligands Dll1 and Dll4 in the peripheral blood of the HFMD group were significantly higher than those in the control group (p<0.05). There were statistically significant differences in CD3+, CD3+CD4+ and CD3-CD19+ cell subsets, but not in Notch ligand expression, between the uncomplicated HFMD and HFMD with encephalitis groups. Dll4 expression in HFMD subjects correlated negatively with the CD3+ and CD3+CD8+ cell subsets (p<0.05), but positively with the CD3-CD19+ cell subset (p<0.05). Furthermore, Dll4 expression in HFMD with encephalitis subjects correlated positively with total white blood cell (WBC) counts and total protein contents in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: The Notch ligand Dll4 exhibits a strong correlation with the CD3+, CD3+CD8+ and CD3-CD19+ cell subsets in children with HFMD, indicating that the Notch signaling may be involved in the development of HFMD by affecting the number and status of peripheral lymphocytes.
The intestinal epithelium performs vital roles in organ function by absorbing nutrients and providing a protective barrier. The zinc-finger containing transcription factors GATA4 and GATA6 regulate enterocyte gene expression and control regional epithelial cell identity in the adult intestinal epithelium. Although GATA4 and GATA6 are expressed in the developing intestine, loss of either factor alone during the period of epithelial morphogenesis and cytodifferentiation fails to disrupt these processes. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that GATA4 and GATA6 function redundantly to control these aspects of intestinal development. We used Villin-Cre, which deletes specifically in the intestinal epithelium during the period of villus development and epithelial cytodifferentiation, to generate Gata4Gata6 double conditional knockout embryos. Mice lacking GATA4 and GATA6 in the intestinal epithelium died within 24h of birth. At E18.5, intestinal villus architecture and epithelial cell populations were altered. Enterocytes were lost, and goblet cells were increased. Proliferation was also increased in GATA4-GATA6 deficient intestinal epithelium. Although villus morphology appeared normal at E16.5, the first time at which both Gata4 and Gata6 were efficiently reduced, changes in expression of markers of enterocytes, goblet cells, and proliferative cells were detected. Moreover, goblet cell number was increased at E16.5. Expression of the Notch ligand Dll1 and the Notch target Olfm4 were reduced in mutant tissue indicating decreased Notch signaling. Finally, we found that GATA4 occupies chromatin near the Dll1 transcription start site suggesting direct regulation of Dll1 by GATA4. We demonstrate that GATA4 and GATA6 play an essential role in maintaining proper intestinal epithelial structure and in regulating intestinal epithelial cytodifferentiation. Our data highlight a novel role for GATA factors in fine tuning Notch signaling during intestinal epithelial development to repress goblet cell differentiation.
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling regulates early hematopoietic development, proceeding from mesoderm patterning through the progressive commitment and differentiation of progenitor cells. The BMP pathway signals largely through receptor-mediated activation of Mothers Against Decapentaplegic homolog (SMAD) proteins, although alternate pathways are modulated through various components of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling. Using a conditional, short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-based knockdown system in the context of differentiating embryonic stem cells (ESCs), we demonstrated previously that Smad1 promotes hemangioblast specification, but then subsequently restricts primitive progenitor potential. Here we show that co-knockdown of Smad5 restores normal progenitor potential of Smad1-depleted cells, suggesting opposing functions for Smad1 and Smad5. This balance was confirmed by cotargeting Smad1/5 with a specific chemical antagonist, LDN193189 (LDN). However, we discovered that LDN treatment after hemangioblast commitment enhanced primitive myeloid potential. Moreover, inhibition with LDN (but not SMAD depletion) increased expression of Delta-like ligands Dll1 and Dll3 and NOTCH activity; abrogation of NOTCH activity restored LDN-enhanced myeloid potential back to normal, corresponding with expression levels of the myeloid master regulator, C/EBPα. LDN but not SMAD activity was also associated with activation of the p38MAPK pathway, and blocking this pathway was sufficient to enhance myelopoiesis. Therefore, NOTCH and p38MAPK pathways balance primitive myeloid progenitor output downstream of the BMP pathway.
Proliferative change and intestinal barrier dysfunction in intestinal mucosa of diabetes have been described, but the differentiation characteristics of intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) and the mechanisms in the IECs development remain unclear. To explore the intestinal epithelial constitution patterns and barrier function, the diabetic mouse model was induced by streptozotocin. Tight junctions between IECs were significantly damaged and the serum level of D-lactate was raised in diabetic mice (P < 0.05). The expression of Zo1 and Ocln in the small intestine of diabetic mice were lower, while the markers for absorptive cell (SI) and Paneth cell (Lyz1) were significantly higher than in control mice (P < 0.05). The expression of Msi1, Notch1, and Dll1 in small intestine gradually increased throughout the course of hyperglycemia in diabetic mice (P < 0.05). However, the expression of NICD, RBP-jκ, Math1, and Hes1 had a reverse trend compared with Msi1 and Notch1. Intestinal absorptive cells and Paneth cells had a high proliferation rate in diabetic mice. However, the intestinal barrier dysfunction associated with the decreased expressions of Zo1 and Ocln was detected throughout hyperglycemia. In conclusion, downregulation of Notch/Hes1 signal pathway caused by depressed Notch/NICD transduction is associated with the abnormal differentiation of IECs and intestinal barrier dysfunction in diabetic mice.
Reports have suggested that the two Notch ligands, Dll1 and Dll4, are indispensable to maintain the homeostasis of the intestinal epithelium. However, within the intestinal epithelium, the precise distribution of the cells that express those ligands at the protein level remains largely unknown. Here, we show a series of immunohistochemical analysis through which we successfully identified mice intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) that endogenously express Dll1 or Dll4. Results showed that Dll1-positive (Dll1+ve) IECs reside exclusively within the crypt, whereas Dll4-positive (Dll4+ve) IECs can locate both in the crypt and in the villus of the small intestine. Also in the colon, Dll1+ve IECs resided at the lower part of the crypt, whereas Dll4+ve IECs resided at both upper and lower part of the crypt, including the surface epithelium. Both Dll1+ve and Dll4+ve IECs were ATOH1-positive, but Hes1-negative cells, and located adjacent to Hes1-positive cells within the crypts. A sub-population of both Dll1+ve and Dll4+ve IECs appeared to co-express Muc2, but rarely co-expressed other secretory lineage markers. However, as compared to Dll1+ve IECs, Dll4+ve IECs included larger number of Muc2-postive IECs, suggesting that Dll4 is more preferentially expressed by goblet cells. Also, we identified that Dll4 is expressed in the Paneth cells of the small intestine, whereas Dll1 and Dll4 is expressed in the c-kit-positive IECs of the colon, indicating that Dll1+ve and Dll4+ve IECs may contribute to constitute the intestinal stem cell niche. Compared to the normal colon, analysis of DSS-colitis showed that number of Dll1+ve IECs significantly decrease in the elongated crypts of the inflamed colonic mucosa. In sharp contrast, number of Dll4+ve IECs showed a significant increase in those crypts, which was accompanied by the increase in number of Hes1-positive IECs. Those Dll4+ve IECs were mostly found adjacent to the Hes1-positive IECs, suggesting that Dll4 may act as a major Notch ligand in the crypts of the inflamed colonic mucosa. Our results illustrate distinct expression patterns of Dll1 and Dll4 within the intestinal epithelium, and suggest that these two ligands may have different roles in normal and inflamed mucosa.
In this study Jagged-1 and Dll-1 surface expression as well as Notch-1 receptor intracellular domain (Notch-1-IC) expression were assessed by multi-color flow cytometry in leukemic blasts obtained from 88 patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). CD34+peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) were used as a control. The median expression of Jagged-1 and Dll-1 was significantly higher in AML blasts than in PBSCs (p=0.001 and p=0.002, respectively). Higher expression of Notch-1-IC was detected in patients with poor-risk karyotype as compared to good- and intermediate-risk groups (p=0.035). In our study, poor-risk cytogenetics and low (<median) expression of Jagged-1 were the only factors associated with significantly shorter overall survival in intensively treated patients according to multivariate analysis. In conclusion, high Jagged-1 surface level in leukemic cells is an independent favorable prognostic factor in patients with AML. To our knowledge, this is the first study evaluating the prognostic role of Notch-1-IC in AML blasts.
Notch signaling plays a critical role in the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of Notch signaling in the apoptosis of intestinal epithelial cells after intestinal ischemia reperfusion (I/R) injury. Male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to sham operation or I/R injury. Intestinal tissue samples were collected at 12 h after reperfusion. TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling) staining showed that intestinal I/R injury induced significantly increased apoptosis of intestinal epithelial cells. Meanwhile, the mRNA expression of Jagged1, DLL1, Notch2, and Hes5, and protein expression of NICD2 and Hes5 were increased significantly after I/R injury in intestinal epithelial cells. In an in vitro IEC-6 culture model, flow cytometry analyses showed that inhibition of Notch signaling by γ-secretase inhibitor DAPT and the suppression of Hes5 expression using siRNA both significantly increased the apoptosis of IEC-6 cells under the condition of hypoxia/ reoxygenation (H/R). In conclusion, the Notch2/Hes5 signaling pathway was activated and involved in the regulation of intestinal epithelial cells apoptosis in intestinal I/R injury.
The Notch signaling pathway is essential for many aspects of development, cell fate determination, and tissue homeostasis. Notch signaling can be modulated by posttranslational modifications to the Notch receptor, which are known to alter both ligand binding and receptor activation. We have modified the ligand-binding region (EGF domains 11-13) of human Notch1 (hN1) with O-fucose and O-glucose glycans and shown by flow cytometry and surface plasmon resonance that the Fringe-catalyzed addition of GlcNAc to the O-fucose at T466 in EGF12 substantially increases binding to Jagged1 and Delta-like 1 (DLL1) ligands. We have subsequently determined the crystal structures of EGF domains 11-13 of hN1 modified with either the O-fucose monosaccharide or the GlcNAc-fucose disaccharide at T466 of EGF12 and observed no change in backbone structure for each variant. Collectively, these data demonstrate a role for GlcNAc in modulating the ligand-binding site in hN1 EGF12, resulting in an increased affinity of this region for ligands Jagged1 and DLL1. We propose that this finding explains the Fringe-catalyzed enhancement of Notch-Delta signaling observed in flies and humans, but suggest that the inhibitory effect of Fringe on Jagged/Serrate mediated signaling involves other regions of Notch.
BACKGROUND: Mutations in the T-box gene Brachyury have well known effects on invagination of the endomesodermal layer during gastrulation, but the gene also plays a role in the determination of left/right axis determination that is less well studied. Previous work has implicated node morphology in this effect. We use the T(Wis) allele of Brachyury to investigate the molecular and morphological effects of the T locus on axis determination in the mouse.RESULTS: Similar to embryos mutant for the T allele, T(Wis) /T(Wis) embryos have a high incidence of ventral and/or reversed heart looping. In addition, heterotaxia between the direction of heart looping and the direction of embryo turning is common. Scanning electron microscopy reveals defects in node morphology including irregularity, smaller size, and a decreased number of cilia, although the cilia appear morphologically normal. Molecular analysis shows a loss of perinodal expression of genes involved in Nodal signaling, namely Cer2, Gdf1, and Nodal itself. There is also loss of Dll1 expression, a key component of the Notch signaling pathway, in the presomitic mesoderm.CONCLUSIONS: Morphological abnormalities of the node as well as disruptions of the molecular cascade of left/right axis determination characterize T(Wis) /T(Wis) mutants. Decreased Notch signaling may account for both the morphological defects and the absence of expression of genes in the Nodal signaling pathway.
Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is a pediatric myogenic-derived soft tissue sarcoma that includes two major histopathological subtypes: embryonal and alveolar. The majority of alveolar RMS expresses PAX3-FOXO1 fusion oncoprotein, associated with the worst prognosis. RMS cells show myogenic markers expression but are unable to terminally differentiate. The Notch signaling pathway is a master player during myogenesis, with Notch1 activation sustaining myoblast expansion and Notch3 activation inhibiting myoblast fusion and differentiation. Accordingly, Notch1 signaling is up-regulated and activated in embryonal RMS samples and supports the proliferation of tumor cells. However, it is unable to control their differentiation properties. We previously reported that Notch3 is activated in RMS cell lines, of both alveolar and embryonal subtype, and acts by inhibiting differentiation. Moreover, Notch3 depletion reduces PAX3-FOXO1 alveolar RMS tumor growth in vivo. However, whether Notch3 activation also sustains the proliferation of RMS cells remained unclear. To address this question, we forced the expression of the activated form of Notch3, Notch3IC, in the RH30 and RH41 PAX3-FOXO1-positive alveolar and in the RD embryonal RMS cell lines and studied the proliferation of these cells. We show that, in all three cell lines tested, Notch3IC over-expression stimulates in vitro cell proliferation and prevents the effects of pharmacological Notch inhibition. Furthermore, Notch3IC further increases RH30 cell growth in vivo. Interestingly, knockdown of Notch canonical ligands JAG1 or DLL1 in RMS cell lines decreases Notch3 activity and reduces cell proliferation. Finally, the expression of Notch3IC and its target gene HES1 correlates with that of the proliferative marker Ki67 in a small cohort of primary PAX-FOXO1 alveolar RMS samples. These results strongly suggest that high levels of Notch3 activation increase the proliferative potential of RMS cells.
Patients with terminal deletions of chromosome 6q present with structural brain abnormalities including agenesis of corpus callosum, hydrocephalus, periventricular nodular heterotopia, and cerebellar malformations. The 6q27 region harbors genes that are important for the normal development of brain and delineation of a critical deletion region for structural brain abnormalities may lead to a better genotype-phenotype correlation. We conducted a detailed clinical and molecular characterization of seven unrelated patients with deletions involving chromosome 6q27. All patients had structural brain abnormalities. Using array comparative genomic hybridization, we mapped the size, extent, and genomic content of these deletions. The smallest region of overlap spans 1.7 Mb and contains DLL1, THBS2, PHF10, and C6orf70 (ERMARD) that are plausible candidates for the causation of structural brain abnormalities. Our study reiterates the importance of 6q27 region in normal development of brain and helps identify putative genes in causation of structural brain anomalies.
Erratum in    J Exp Med. 2014 May 5;21(5):1005. Sarnacki, Sabine [added].
The development of the vertebrate brain requires an exquisite balance between proliferation and differentiation of neural progenitors. Notch signaling plays a pivotal role in regulating this balance, yet the interaction between signaling and receiving cells remains poorly understood. We have found that numerous nascent neurons and/or intermediate neurogenic progenitors expressing the ligand of Notch retain apical endfeet transiently at the ventricular lumen that form adherens junctions (AJs) with the endfeet of progenitors. Forced detachment of the apical endfeet of those differentiating cells by disrupting AJs resulted in precocious neurogenesis that was preceded by the downregulation of Notch signaling. Both Notch1 and its ligand Dll1 are distributed around AJs in the apical endfeet, and these proteins physically interact with ZO-1, a constituent of the AJ. Furthermore, live imaging of a fluorescently tagged Notch1 demonstrated its trafficking from the apical endfoot to the nucleus upon cleavage. Our results identified the apical endfoot as the central site of active Notch signaling to securely prohibit inappropriate differentiation of neural progenitors.
Notch signaling plays a vital role in tumorigenicity and tumor progression by regulating proliferation, invasion, and the tumor microenvironment. Previous research by our group indicated that Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) is involved in angiogenesis in melanoma, and we noticed that it took a longer time to trypsinize Dll1-expressing B16 melanoma cells than the control cells. In this article, we extended our study to investigate the effects of Dll1 on tumor cell adhesion and metastasis. Dll1 overexpression activated Notch signaling in B16 tumor cells and significantly enhanced the adhering capacity of B16 tumor cells both in vitro and in vivo. B16-Dll1 cells also had a higher metastatic potential than their counterpart in the mouse model of lung metastasis. Along with increased Dll1 expression, N-cadherin, but not E-cadherin, was upregulated in B16-Dll1 cells. These data suggested that Notch ligand Dll1 may enhance the adhesion and metastasis of melanoma cells by upregulation of N-cadherin.
Notch intercellular signaling is critical for diverse developmental pathways and for homeostasis in various types of stem cells and progenitor cells. Because Notch gene products need to be precisely regulated spatially and temporally, epigenetics is likely to help control expression of Notch signaling genes. Reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS) indicated significant hypomethylation in myoblasts, myotubes, and skeletal muscle vs. many nonmuscle samples at intragenic or intergenic regions of the following Notch receptor or ligand genes: NOTCH1, NOTCH2, JAG2, and DLL1. An enzymatic assay of sites in or near these genes revealed unusually high enrichment of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (up to 81%) in skeletal muscle, heart, and cerebellum. Epigenetics studies and gene expression profiles suggest that hypomethylation and/or hydroxymethylation help control expression of these genes in heart, brain, myoblasts, myotubes, and within skeletal muscle myofibers. Such regulation could promote cell renewal, cell maintenance, homeostasis, and a poised state for repair of tissue damage.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the diagnostic value of Delta-like 1 ligand (DLL1) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum, in tuberculous meningitis (TBM).METHODS: Patients with a definite diagnosis of central nervous system infection (TBM, viral meningitis/encephalitis or bacterial meningitis) were prospectively enrolled alongside patients with intracranial metastatic tumour and patients with no diagnosis (who served as controls). DLL1 content in CSF and serum was measured quantitatively by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; analyses were blinded.RESULTS: A total of 173 patients were enrolled: 62 with TBM; 38 with viral meningitis/encephalitis; 26 with bacterial meningitis; 17 with intracranial metastatic tumour; 30 with no diagnosis. CSF DLL1 content was highest for TBM; there were no differences in CSF DLL1 between the other groups. Serum DLL1 content was highest for the TBM and intracranial metastatic tumour groups, with significant differences between the TBM group and the viral meningitis/encephalitis, bacterial meningitis and nondiagnosed groups. There were no differences in serum DLL1 between the viral meningitis/encephalitis, bacterial meningitis and nondiagnosed groups, or between the TBM group and the tumour group.CONCLUSION: As a new biomarker, DLL1 may be of great clinical importance in the diagnosis of TBM.
Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome (MRKHS) is a rare disease characterized by congenital aplasia of uterus and vagina. Although many studies have investigated several candidate genes, up to now none of them seem to be responsible for the aetiology of the syndrome. In our study, we identified differences in gene expression profile of in vitro cultured vaginal tissue of MRHKS patients using whole-genome microarray analysis. A group of eight out of sixteen MRKHS patients that underwent reconstruction of neovagina with an autologous in vitro cultured vaginal tissue were subjected to microarray analysis and compared with five healthy controls. Results obtained by array were confirmed by qRT-PCR and further extended to other eight MRKHS patients. Gene profiling of MRKHS patients delineated 275 differentially expressed genes, of which 133 downregulated and 142 upregulated. We selected six deregulated genes (MUC1, HOXC8, HOXB2, HOXB5, JAG1 and DLL1) on the basis of their fold change, their differential expression in most patients and their relevant role in embryological development. All patients showed upregulation of MUC1, while HOXB2 and HOXB5 were downregulated, as well as Notch ligands JAG1 and DLL1 in the majority of them. Interestingly, HOXC8 was significantly upregulated in 47% of patients, with a differential expression only in MRKHS type I patients. Taken together, our results highlighted the dysregulation of developmental genes, thus suggesting a potential alteration of networks involved in the formation of the female reproductive tract and providing a useful clue for understanding the pathophysiology of MRKHS.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most common primary malignancy of bone and is usually associated with poor prognosis due to its high incidence of metastasis and chemoresistance. Molecular pathogenesis of OS is poorly understood. We previously showed that OS cells are refractory to BMP9-induced osteogenesis and respond favorably to proliferation and tumor growth. Here we investigate if Notch signaling mediates the BMP9-promoted cell proliferation and tumor growth of human osteosarcoma (OS). We find that the expression of Notch1, Notch2, Notch3, DLL1, JAG1 and JAG2 is readily detected in most of the tested OS cell lines. BMP9-promoted OS cell proliferation, migration, and cell cycle S/G2 progression are effectively inhibited by a dominant-negative mutant of Notch1 (dnNotch1) or the γ-secretase inhibitor Compound E (ComE). Furthermore, BMP9-promoted tumor growth and osteolytic lesions in vivo are significantly inhibited by dnNotch1. BMP9 up-regulates the expression of Notch1, Notch3, DLL1, and JAG1 in OS cells. Accordingly, BMP9 stimulation induces a nuclear accumulation of NICD, which is blocked by ComE. Our results demonstrate that BMP9-promoted OS proliferation and tumor growth is at least in part mediated by Notch signaling, suggesting that osteogenic BMPs may function as upstream regulators of Notch signaling in OS tumorigenesis. Thus, pharmacologic intervention of Notch signaling may be explored as a new therapeutic strategy for human OS tumors.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Apr;14(4):213.    Nat Immunol. 2014 Apr;15(4):313-4.
Fucosylation of Epidermal Growth Factor-like (EGF) repeats by protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1 in vertebrates, OFUT1 in Drosophila) is pivotal for NOTCH function. In Drosophila OFUT1 also acts as chaperone for Notch independent from its enzymatic activity. NOTCH ligands are also substrates for POFUT1, but in Drosophila OFUT1 is not essential for ligand function. In vertebrates the significance of POFUT1 for ligand function and subcellular localization is unclear. Here, we analyze the importance of O-fucosylation and POFUT1 for the mouse NOTCH ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1). We show by mass spectral glycoproteomic analyses that DLL1 is O-fucosylated at the consensus motif C²XXXX(S/T)C³ (where C² and C³ are the second and third conserved cysteines within the EGF repeats) found in EGF repeats 3, 4, 7 and 8. A putative site with only three amino acids between the second cysteine and the hydroxy amino acid within EGF repeat 2 is not modified. DLL1 proteins with mutated O-fucosylation sites reach the cell surface and accumulate intracellularly. Likewise, in presomitic mesoderm cells of POFUT1 deficient embryos DLL1 is present on the cell surface, and in mouse embryonic fibroblasts lacking POFUT1 the same relative amount of overexpressed wild type DLL1 reaches the cell surface as in wild type embryonic fibroblasts. DLL1 expressed in POFUT1 mutant cells can activate NOTCH, indicating that POFUT1 is not required for DLL1 function as a Notch ligand.
Interaction of Notch receptors with Delta- and Serrate-type ligands is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that mediates direct communication between adjacent cells and thereby regulates multiple developmental processes. Posttranslational modifications of both receptors and ligands are pivotal for normal Notch pathway function. We have identified by mass spectrometric analysis two serine and one threonine phosphorylation sites in the intracellular domain of the mouse Notch ligand DLL1. Phosphorylation requires cell membrane association of DLL1 and occurs sequentially at the two serine residues. Phosphorylation of one serine residue most likely by protein kinase B primes phosphorylation of the other serine. A DLL1 variant, in which all three identified phosphorylated serine/threonine residues are mutated to alanine and valine, was more stable than wild-type DLL1 but had reduced relative levels on the cell surface and was more effectively cleaved in the extracellular domain. In addition, the mutant variant activated Notch1 significantly less efficient than wild-type DLL1 in a coculture assay in vitro. Mice, however, whose endogenous DLL1 was replaced with the phosphorylation-deficient triple mutant developed normally, suggesting compensatory mechanisms under physiological conditions in vivo.
OBJECTIVE: Behçet's disease (BD) is a refractory inflammatory disorder with unknown causes. Since the Notch pathway is critically involved in the immune response, the present study was undertaken to investigate the role of this pathway in BD.METHODS: Hes-1, Notch 1-4, Jagged-1, DLL-1 and DLL-4 expression, frequency of IFN-γ and IL-17 expressing Th cells, Notch intracellular domain (NICD), phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and the production of IFN-γ and IL-17 were examined by real-time PCR, flow cytometry and ELISA. Notch blockade was performed using the γ-secretase inhibitor N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-1-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT). Transfection with miR-23b mimics and inhibitor was used to examine the effect of miR-23b on Notch pathway activation.RESULTS: Active BD patients showed an increased activation of the Notch pathway in association with a higher Th17 response. Notch blockade preferentially inhibited Th17 responses. The effect of Notch blockade on the Th17 response was associated with a lower level of STAT3 phosphorylation. miR-23b was significantly decreased in CD4(+) T cells from active BD patients. CD4(+) T cells transfected with miR-23b showed a reduced expression of NICD and a reduced frequency of IL-17- and IFN-γ-expressing T cells.CONCLUSION: The present study suggests that an increased activation of the Notch pathway may contribute to the pathogenesis of BD. Decreased expression of miR-23b may be involved in activation of the Notch pathway in BD. Manipulation of the Notch pathway may offer a novel therapeutic approach for BD.
Neural stem cell (NSC) transplantation for ischemic stroke is expected to repair the neuronal injury and replace the lost neurons through cell-cell cross talk between injured neurons and the transplanted NSCs. Here, we set up an in vitro co-culturing system of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) injured neurons and NSCs to investigate the neuronal repairing effect and effects on NSCs differentiation. We focused on the Notch1 pathway as a possible mediator of these effects. OGD-injured neurons induced increased activation of Notch1 in co-cultured NSCs, through the up-regulations of the DLL1, the Notch1 intracellular domain (NICD) and the down-stream genes Hes1/5. When the NSCs were pre-treated with the Notch pathway inhibitor DAPT, the activation of Notch1 was blocked, lower NSCs differentiation was detected and the neurotrophic effect was also abolished. As shown by the novel co-culturing system, the NSCs co-cultured with OGD injured neurons were induced to differentiate through the Notch1 pathway activation; and these induced NSCs showed greater potential to support both the repair of injured neurons and form new neurons.
Metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) is incurable for most patients. Since mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) has been suggested as a crucial modulator of tumor biology, we aimed at evaluating the effectiveness of mTOR targeting for CRC therapy. To this purpose, we analyzed mTOR expression and the effect of mTOR inhibition in cancer stem-like cells isolated from three human metastatic CRCs (CoCSCs). CoCSCs exhibited a strong mTOR complex 2 (mTORC2) expression, and a rare expression of mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1). This latter correlated with differentiation, being expressed in CoCSC-derived xenografts. We indicate Serum/glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1 (SGK1) as the possible main mTORC2 effector in CoCSCs, as highlighted by the negative effect on cancer properties following its knockdown. mTOR inhibitors affected CoCSCs differently, resulting in proliferation, autophagy as well as apoptosis induction. The apoptosis-inducing mTOR inhibitor Torin-1 hindered growth, motility, invasion, and survival of CoCSCs in vitro, and suppressed tumor growth in vivo with a concomitant reduction in vessel formation. Torin-1 also affected the expression of markers for cell proliferation, angio-/lympho-genesis, and stemness in vivo, including Ki67, DLL1, DLL4, Notch, Lgr5, and CD44. Importantly, Torin-1 did not affect the survival of normal colon stem cells in vivo, suggesting its selectivity towards cancer cells. Thus, we propose Torin-1 as a powerful drug candidate for metastatic CRC therapy.
The Notch signaling pathway mediates the direct communication between adjacent cells and regulates multiple developmental processes. Interaction of the Notch receptor with its ligands induces the liberation of the intracellular portion of Notch (NICD) referred to as regulated intramembraneous proteolysis (RIP). NICD translocates to the nucleus, and by complexing with the DNA binding protein RBPjκ and other cofactors activates transcription of bHLH genes. RIP-like processing of various mammalian Notch ligands (DLL1, JAG1 and JAG2) and the translocation of their intracellular domains (ICDs) to the nucleus has also been observed. These observations together with effects of over-expressed ligand ICDs in cultured cells on cell proliferation, differentiation, and Notch activity and target gene expression have led to the idea that the intracellular domains of Notch ligands have signaling functions. To test this hypothesis in vivo we have generated ES cells and transgenic mice that constitutively express various versions of the intracellular domain of mouse DLL1. In contrast to other cell lines, expression of DICDs in ES cells did not block proliferation or stimulate neuronal differentiation. Embryos with ubiquitous DICD expression developed to term without any apparent phenotype and grew up to viable and fertile adults. Early Notch-dependent processes or expression of selected Notch target genes were unaltered in transgenic embryos. In addition, we show that mouse DICD enters the nucleus inefficiently. Collectively, our results argue against a signaling activity of the intracellular domain of DLL1 in mouse embryos in vivo.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are emerging key players of the immune system with close lineage relationship to T cells. ILC2 play an important role in protective immunity against multicellular parasites, but are also involved in the pathogenesis of type 2 immune diseases. Here, we have studied the developmental requirements for human ILC2. We report that ILC2 are present in the thymus of young human donors, possibly reflecting local differentiation. Furthermore, we show that uncommitted lineage(-)CD34(+)CD1a(-)human thymic progenitors have the capacity to develop into ILC2 in vitro under the influence of Notch signaling, either by stimulation with the Notch ligand Delta like 1 (Dll1) or by expression of the active intracellular domain of NOTCH1 (NICD1). The capacity of NICD1 to mobilize the ILC2 differentiation program was sufficiently potent to override commitment to the T cell lineage in CD34(+)CD1a(+) progenitors and force them into the ILC2 lineage. As Notch is an important factor also for T cell development, these results raise the question how one and the same signaling pathway can elicit such distinct developmental outcomes from the same precursors. We provide evidence that Notch signal strength is a critical determinant in this decision: by tuning signal amplitude, Notch can be converted from a T cell inducer (low signal strength) to an ILC2 inducer (high signal strength). Thus, this study enhances our understanding of human ILC2 development and identifies a mechanism determining specificity of Notch signal output during T cell and ILC2 differentiation.
Recent studies have associated alterations of neuronal plasticity in specific brain areas with suicidal behavior. The Notch signaling pathway plays a relevant role in the control of stem cell maintenance, cell migration, and neuronal plasticity. In the present study, the gene expression of the four Notch receptors (NOTCH1-4), the five canonical ligands (DLL1, DLL3, DLL4, JAGGED1, and JAGGED2), the two non-canonical ligands (DLK1 and DLK2), and the transcription factors (HES1, HEY1, and HEY2) were measured in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and amygdala (AMY) of suicide victims (S; n = 13 males, with no clinical psychiatric history and non-treated with anxiolytic or antidepressant drugs) and their corresponding controls (C; n = 13 males) by real-time PCR. The results revealed a reduction of NOTCH2 and NOTCH1, NOTCH3, and NOTCH4 gene expression in the DLPFC and AMY of S compared with C, respectively. DLL1 levels were increased in the DLPFC and decreased in the AMY, whereas DLL4, JAGGED1, and JAGGED2 were significantly decreased in the regions analyzed. DLK1 was reduced in the AMY, whereas no changes were observed in the DLPFC and in DLK2 expression levels in any of the regions analyzed. HES1 was significantly reduced in both brain regions from S, whereas there were no significant changes in HEY1 and HEY2. This study provides evidence suggesting that the Notch signaling pathway could be a potential key target in the treatment of suicidal behaviors.
The activity of Notch ligands is tightly regulated by trafficking events occurring both before and after ligand-receptor interaction. In particular endocytosis and recycling have been shown to be required for full signaling activity of the ligands before they encounter the Notch receptor. However little is known about the precise endocytic processes that contribute to ligand internalization. Here we demonstrate that endocytosis contributes to Dll1 signaling activity by preserving the ligand from shedding and degradation. We further show that the glycosphingolipid-binding motif originally identified in Drosophila Notch ligands is conserved in mammals and is necessary for Dll1 internalization. Mutation of its conserved tryptophan residue results in a Dll1 molecule which is rapidly inactivated by shedding and degradation, does not recycle to the cell surface and does not activate Notch signaling. Finally, silencing in the signal-sending cells of glucosylceramide synthase, the enzyme implicated in the initial phase of glycosphingolipid synthesis, down-regulates Notch activation. Our data indicate that glycosphingolipids, by interacting with Dll1, may act as functional co-factors to promote its biological activity.
Periventricular nodular heterotopia is caused by defective neuronal migration that results in heterotopic neuronal nodules lining the lateral ventricles. Mutations in filamin A (FLNA) or ADP-ribosylation factor guanine nucleotide-exchange factor 2 (ARFGEF2) cause periventricular nodular heterotopia, but most patients with this malformation do not have a known aetiology. Using comparative genomic hybridization, we identified 12 patients with developmental brain abnormalities, variably combining periventricular nodular heterotopia, corpus callosum dysgenesis, colpocephaly, cerebellar hypoplasia and polymicrogyria, harbouring a common 1.2 Mb minimal critical deletion in 6q27. These anatomic features were mainly associated with epilepsy, ataxia and cognitive impairment. Using whole exome sequencing in 14 patients with isolated periventricular nodular heterotopia but no copy number variants, we identified one patient with periventricular nodular heterotopia, developmental delay and epilepsy and a de novo missense mutation in the chromosome 6 open reading frame 70 (C6orf70) gene, mapping in the minimal critical deleted region. Using immunohistochemistry and western blots, we demonstrated that in human cell lines, C6orf70 shows primarily a cytoplasmic vesicular puncta-like distribution and that the mutation affects its stability and subcellular distribution. We also performed in utero silencing of C6orf70 and of Phf10 and Dll1, the two additional genes mapping in the 6q27 minimal critical deleted region that are expressed in human and rodent brain. Silencing of C6orf70 in the developing rat neocortex produced periventricular nodular heterotopia that was rescued by concomitant expression of wild-type human C6orf70 protein. Silencing of the contiguous Phf10 or Dll1 genes only produced slightly delayed migration but not periventricular nodular heterotopia. The complex brain phenotype observed in the 6q terminal deletion syndrome likely results from the combined haploinsufficiency of contiguous genes mapping to a small 1.2 Mb region. Our data suggest that, of the genes within this minimal critical region, C6orf70 plays a major role in the control of neuronal migration and its haploinsufficiency or mutation causes periventricular nodular heterotopia.
Comment in    Circ Res. 2013 Nov 8;113(11):1186-8.
The thymus provides a unique environment for the induction of T-cell lineage commitment and differentiation, which is predicted by specific Notch ligand-receptor interactions on epithelial cells and lymphoid progenitors, respectively. Accordingly, a bone marrow-derived stromal cell line (OP9) ectopically expressing the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) or Dll4 (OP9-DL1 and OP9-DL4, respectively) gains the ability to recapitulate thymus-like function, supporting T-cell differentiation of both mouse and human progenitors. In this study, we extend these findings by demonstrating that, unlike the NIH3T3 cell line, mouse primary fibroblasts made to express Dll4 (mFibro-DL4) acquire the capacity to promote and support T-cell development from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) into TCRαβ(+), CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-lineage cells. However, mFibro-DL4 cells showed a lower efficiency of T-cell generation than OP9-DL4 cells did. Nevertheless, progenitor T-cells (CD117(+) CD44(+) CD25(+)) generated in HSC/mFibro-DL4 co-cultures, when intravenously transferred into immunodeficient (Rag2(-/-) γc(-/-)) mice, home to the thymus, undergo differentiation, and give rise to mature T-cells that go on to populate the periphery. Surprisingly, primary human fibroblast cells expressing Dll4 showed very low efficiency in supporting human T-lineage differentiation, which could not be improved by blocking myelopoiesis. Nevertheless, mFibro-DL4 cells could support human T-cell lineage differentiation. Our results provide a functional framework for the induction of T-cell development using easily accessible fibroblasts made to express Dll4. These cells, which are amenable for in vitro applications, can be further utilized in the design of individualized systems for T-cell production, with implications for the treatment of immunodeficiencies.
The majority of T-cell development occurs in the thymus. Thymic epithelial cells are specialized cells that express NOTCH ligands and secrete specific cytokines required for normal T-cell lymphopoiesis. It has been demonstrated that OP9 cells derived from macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF)-deficient mice can support T-cell development when transduced with a NOTCH ligand, Delta-like 1 (Dll1). In this report, we have tested CSF-deficient mouse fibroblasts transduced with Dll1 for their ability to support T-cell differentiation. The data provided here demonstrate that CSF-deficient fibroblasts expressing DLL1 can support T-cell development. Indeed, co-cultures with these fibroblasts produced more T-cell progenitors compared with OP9-DL1 cultures. Addition of myeloid cytokines to OP9-DL1 co-cultures significantly inhibited T-cell development while CSF-deficient DLL1(+) fibroblasts retained partial T-cell differentiation. Taken together, these data imply that their lack of myeloid cytokines allows DLL1(+) fibroblasts to more efficiently generate T-cells. Development of this fibroblast system suggests that there is potential for generating human T-cell precursors via co-culture with human fibroblasts expressing DLL1 or DLL4. These T-cell precursors could be used for treating immunodeficient patients.
We have investigated the effects of tCFA15, a non-peptidic compound, on the differentiation of neural stem cell-derived neurospheres, and have found that tCFA15 promotes their differentiation into neurons and reduces their differentiation into astrocytes, in a dose-dependent manner. This response is reminiscent of that resulting from the loss-of-function of Notch signaling after inactivation of the Delta-like 1 (Dll1) gene. Further analysis of the expression of genes from the Notch pathway by reverse transcriptase-PCR revealed that tCFA15 treatment results in a consistent decrease in the level of Notch1 mRNA. We have confirmed this result in other cell lines and propose that it reflects a general effect of the tCFA15 molecule. We discuss the implications of this finding with respect to regulation of Notch activity in neural stem cells, and the possible use of tCFA15 as a therapeutic tool for various pathologies that result from impairment of Notch signaling.
In vitro differentiation of mouse and human stem cells into early T cells has been successfully demonstrated using artificial Notch signaling systems. However, generation of mature, antigen-specific, functional T cells, directly from human stem cells has remained elusive, except when using stromal coculture of stem cells retrovirally transfected with antigen-specific T cell receptors (TCRs). Here we show that human umbilical cord blood (UCB)-derived CD34+CD38-/low hematopoietic stem cells can be successfully differentiated into functional, antigen-specific cytotoxic CD8+ T cells without direct stromal coculture or retroviral TCR transfection. Surface-immobilized Notch ligands (DLL1) and stromal cell conditioned medium successfully induced the development of CD1a+CD7+ and CD4+CD8+ early T cells. These cells, upon continued culture with cytomegalovirus (CMV) or influenza-A virus M1 (GIL) epitope-loaded human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*0201 tetramers, resulted in the generation of a polyclonal population of CMV-specific or GIL-specific CD8+ T cells, respectively. Upon further activation with antigen-loaded target cells, these antigen-specific, stem cell-derived T cells exhibited cytolytic functionality, specifically CD107a surface mobilization, interferon gamma (IFNg) production, and Granzyme B secretion. Such scalable, in vitro generation of functional, antigen-specific T cells from human stem cells could eventually provide a readily available cell source for adoptive transfer immunotherapies and also allow better understanding of human T cell development.
Republished from    Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2013 Jul;103:39-49.
Notch signaling makes critical contributions to cell fate determination in all metazoan organisms, yet remarkably little is known about the binding affinity of the four mammalian Notch receptors for their three Delta-like and two Jagged family ligands. Here, we utilized signaling assays and biochemical studies of purified recombinant ligand and receptor molecules to investigate the differences in signaling behavior and intrinsic affinity between Notch1-Dll1 and Notch1-Dll4 complexes. Systematic deletion mutagenesis of the human Notch1 ectodomain revealed that epidermal growth factor (EGF) repeats 6-15 are sufficient to maintain signaling in a reporter assay at levels comparable with the full-length receptor, and identified important contributions from EGF repeats 8-10 in conveying an activating signal in response to either Dll1 or Dll4. Truncation studies of the Dll1 and Dll4 ectodomains showed that the MNNL-EGF3 region was both necessary and sufficient for full activation. Plate-based and cell binding assays revealed a specific, calcium-dependent interaction between cell-surface and recombinant Notch receptors and ligand molecules. Finally, direct measurement of the binding affinity of Notch1 EGF repeats 6-15 for Dll1 and Dll4 revealed that Dll4 binds with at least an order of magnitude higher affinity than Dll1. Together, these studies give new insights into the features of ligand recognition by Notch1, and highlight how intrinsic differences in the biochemical behavior of receptor-ligand complexes can influence receptor-mediated responses of developmental signaling pathways.
Although accumulation of dendritic cell (DC) precursors occurs in bone marrow, the terminal differentiation of these cells takes place outside bone marrow. The signaling, regulating this process, remains poorly understood. We demonstrated that this process could be differentially regulated by Notch ligands: Jagged-1 (Jag1) and Delta-like ligand 1 (Dll1). In contrast to Dll1, Jag1, in vitro and during induced myelopoiesis in vivo, prevented DC differentiation by promoting the accumulation of their precursors. Although both ligands activated Notch in hematopoietic progenitor cells, they had an opposite effect on Wnt signaling. Dll1 activated Wnt pathways, whereas Jag1 inhibited it via downregulation of the expression of the Wnt receptors Frizzled (Fzd). Jag1 suppressed fzd expression by retaining histone deacetylase 1 in the complex with the transcription factor CSL/CBF-1 on the fzd promoter. Our results suggest that DC differentiation, during induced myelopoiesis, can be regulated by the nature of the Notch ligand expressed on adjacent stroma cells.
Stem cells isolated from human adult tissues represent a promising source for neural differentiation studies in vitro. We have isolated and characterized stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth (SHEDs). These originate from the neural crest and therefore particularly suitable for induction of neural differentiation. We here established a novel three-stage protocol for neural differentiation of SHEDs cells. After adaptation to a serum-free and neurogenic environment, SHEDs were induced to differentiate. This resulted in the formation of stellate or bipolar round-shaped neuron-like cells with subpopulations expressing markers of sensory neurons (Brn3a, peripherin) and glia (myelin basic protein). Commercial PCR array analyses addressed the expression profiles of genes related to neurogenesis and cAMP/calcium signalling. We found distinct evidence for the upregulation of genes regulating the specification of sensory (MAF), sympathetic (midkine, pleitrophin) and dopaminergic (tyrosine hydroxylase, Nurr1) neurons and the differentiation and support of myelinating and non-myelinating Schwann cells (Krox24, Krox20, apolipoprotein E). Moreover, for genes controlling major developmental signalling pathways, there was upregulation of BMP (TGF β-3, BMP2) and Notch (Notch 2, DLL1, HES1, HEY1, HEY2) in the differentiating SHEDs. SHEDs treated according to our new differentiation protocol gave rise to mixed neuronal/glial cell cultures, which opens new possibilities for in vitro studies of neuronal and glial specification and broadens the potential for the employment of such cells in experimental models and future treatment strategies.
Author information:(1)Department of Pathology, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510282, China.
The mammalian neocortical progenitor cell niche is composed of a diverse repertoire of neuroepithelial cells, radial glia (RG), and intermediate neurogenic progenitors (INPs). Previously, live-cell imaging experiments have proved crucial in identifying these distinct progenitor populations, especially INPs, which amplify neural output by undergoing additional rounds of proliferation before differentiating into new neurons. INPs also provide feedback to the RG pool by serving as a source of Delta-like 1 (Dll1), a key ligand for activating Notch signaling in neighboring cells, a well-known mechanism for maintaining RG identity. While much is known about Dll1-Notch signaling at the molecular level, little is known about how this cell-cell contact dependent feedback is transmitted at the cellular level. To investigate how RG and INPs might interact to convey Notch signals, we used high-resolution live-cell multiphoton microscopy (MPM) to directly observe cellular interactions and dynamics, in conjunction with Notch-pathway specific reporters in the neocortical neural stem cell niche in organotypic brain slices from embryonic mice. We found that INPs and RG interact via dynamic and transient elongate processes, some apparently long-range (extending from the subventricular zone to the ventricular zone), and some short-range (filopodia-like). Gene expression profiling of RG and INPs revealed further progenitor cell diversification, including different subpopulations of Hes1+ and/or Hes5+ RG, and Dll1+ and/or Dll3+ INPs. Thus, the embryonic progenitor niche includes a network of dynamic cell-cell interactions, using different combinations of Notch signaling molecules to maintain and likely diversify progenitor pools.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2017 Oct 11;12 (10 ):e0186529.
Stem cells often divide asymmetrically to produce one stem cell and one differentiating cell, thus maintaining the stem cell pool. Although neural stem cells (NSCs) in the adult mouse subventricular zone have been suggested to divide asymmetrically, intrinsic cell fate determinants for asymmetric NSC division are largely unknown. Stem cell niches are important for stem cell maintenance, but the niche for the maintenance of adult quiescent NSCs has remained obscure. Here we show that the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) is required to maintain quiescent NSCs in the adult mouse subventricular zone. Dll1 protein is induced in activated NSCs and segregates to one daughter cell during mitosis. Dll1-expressing cells reside in close proximity to quiescent NSCs, suggesting a feedback signal for NSC maintenance by their sister cells and progeny. Our data suggest a model in which NSCs produce their own niche cells for their maintenance through asymmetric Dll1 inheritance at mitosis.
BACKGROUND: Bergmann glia (BG) are unipolar cerebellar astrocytes. The somata of mature BG reside in the Purkinje cell layer and extend radially arranged processes to the pial surface. BG have multiple branched processes, which enwrap the synapses of Purkinje cell dendrites. They migrate from the ventricular zone and align next to the Purkinje cell layer during development. Previously, we reported that Notch1, Notch2, and RBPj genes in the BG play crucial roles in the monolayer formation and morphogenesis of BG. However, it remains to be determined which ligand activates Nocth1 and Notch 2 on BG. Delta-like 1 (Dll1) is a major ligand of Notch receptors that is expressed in the developing cerebellum.RESULTS: In this study, we used human glial fibrillary acidic protein (hGFAP) promoter-driven Cre-mediated recombination to delete Dll1 in BG. Dll1-conditional mutant mice showed disorganization of Bergmann fibers, ectopic localization of BG in the molecular layer and a reduction in the number of BG.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that Dll1 is required for the formation of the BG layer and its morphological maturation, apparently through a Notch1/2-RBPj dependent signaling pathway.
Notch signaling is involved in cell lineage specification in many developing organs. In mice there are four known Notch receptor genes (Notch1-4) and five ligands genes (Dll1, 3, 4 and Jagged1 and 2). Notch2 is essential for development of placenta, an organ that mediates feto-maternal nutrient and gas exchange as well as maternal adaptations to pregnancy. However the role of other Notch receptors and ligands in placentation is not known. In order to gain better insight into the role of Notch signaling in mouse placenta we thoroughly analyzed mRNA expression of all Notch receptors and ligands in all trophoblast cell types from the embryonic day (E) 7.5 to E12.5, the period during which all of the substructures of the placenta develop. Here we show that Notch receptors and ligands are specifically and dynamically expressed in multiple cell layers of developing placenta. We found that the Notch2 receptor and Jagged1 and Jagged2 ligand genes are complementarily expressed in trophoblast cells of the chorion and its later derivatives in the labyrinth. Dll4 and Notch2 expression complement each other in the ectoplacental cone, while Dll1 and Notch2 are expressed in an ectoplacental cone derivative, the junctional zone. Moreover Dll4 and Notch2 are expressed at the ectoplacental cone-decidua interface at early stages of placentation. Additionally we show that Notch2 is dynamically expressed in all trophoblast giant cell subtypes, which is consistent with previous reports. Overall these expression pattern results suggest that Notch signaling may play several diverse roles during placenta development.
Republished in    Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2013 Oct;105:20-30.
Neural progenitor cells show oscillatory expression of the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1), the Notch target Hes1 and the proneural gene Neurogenin 2 (Ngn2) during embryonic development of the mammalian telencephalon. On the other hand, expression of these genes is sustained in postmitotic neurons (upregulated for Ngn2 and Dll1, down regulated for Hes1). These facts suggest that a switch from oscillatory to sustained expression of proneural and other genes is critical in neural fate decisions. Moreover, despite controversies over the role of Numb in determining the neural fate in mammals, there is evidence that inheritance of Numb during neurogenic cell division is involved in neural differentiation. It is also known that mNumb activates Notch1 receptor degradation. The arrest of oscillations in a given cell may be due to increasing degradation of Notch1 brought about by mNumb during neurogenic division. We introduce a modification in a previous model of the gene network for two cells coupled by the Delta-Notch pathway (Wang et al., 2011). We analyze the consequences of an asymmetry between two neighbor cells in the rate of degradation of Notch (mimicking the effect of asymmetric inheritance of mNumb during the neurogenic division). The results show that a slight difference in Notch degradation between the two cells keeps oscillation going in one of them while oscillation stops in the other. Moreover, when Delta-Notch coupling is canceled, both cells show sustained expression (upregulated levels for Ngn2 and Dll1, downregulated for Hes1). We show that the model is stable against parameter variations. Moreover, to take into account the possible influence of the environment on both cells, neighboring cells are included in a mean field approximation. Both, parameter fluctuations and effects of the environment lead to asynchronous oscillations of Hes1/Ngn2 in different progenitor cells.
Human epidermal stem cells express high levels of β1 integrins, delta-like 1 (DLL1) and the EGFR antagonist LRIG1. However, there is cell-to-cell variation in the relative abundance of DLL1 and LRIG1 mRNA transcripts. Single-cell global gene expression profiling showed that undifferentiated cells fell into two clusters delineated by expression of DLL1 and its binding partner syntenin. The DLL1(+) cluster had elevated expression of genes associated with endocytosis, integrin-mediated adhesion and receptor tyrosine kinase signalling. Differentially expressed genes were not independently regulated, as overexpression of DLL1 alone or together with LRIG1 led to the upregulation of other genes in the DLL1(+) cluster. Overexpression of DLL1 and LRIG1 resulted in enhanced extracellular matrix adhesion and increased caveolin-dependent EGFR endocytosis. Further characterisation of CD46, one of the genes upregulated in the DLL1(+) cluster, revealed it to be a novel cell surface marker of human epidermal stem cells. Cells with high endogenous levels of CD46 expressed high levels of β1 integrin and DLL1 and were highly adhesive and clonogenic. Knockdown of CD46 decreased proliferative potential and β1 integrin-mediated adhesion. Thus, the previously unknown heterogeneity revealed by our studies results in differences in the interaction of undifferentiated basal keratinocytes with their environment.
Erratum in    Dev Cell. 2014 Jul 28;30(2):246-7.
TLR7 agonists modulate Th2 immune responses through mechanisms that have not been fully elucidated. Suppression of IL-5 production from Ag- or phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human PBMCs by the TLR7 antedrug AZ12441970 was mediated via type I IFN-dependent and type I IFN-independent mechanisms through TLR7 activation of plasmacytoid dendritic cells, B cells, and monocytes. The type I IFN-dependent inhibition of T cell-derived IL-5 was mediated by IFN-α acting directly on activated T cells. IL-10 was shown not to be involved in the type I IFN-independent inhibition of IL-5 and the mechanism of inhibition required cell-cell interaction. Notch signaling was implicated in the inhibition of IL-5, because addition of a γ-secretase inhibitor blocked the type I IFN-independent suppression of IL-5. Accordingly, AZ12441970 induced high levels of the notch ligands Dll1 and Dll4 mRNA, whereas immobilized DLL4 resulted in the suppression of IL-5 production. Therefore, we have elucidated two mechanisms whereby TLR7 agonists can modulate IL-5 production in human T cells. The suppression of Th2 cytokines, including IL-5, would be of benefit in diseases such as atopic asthma, so we assessed TLR7 function in PBMC from asthmatics and showed equivalent activity compared with healthy volunteers. Demonstrating this function is intact in asthmatics and knowing it links to suppression of Th2 cytokines support the case for developing such compounds for the treatment of allergic disease.
Ngn3 is recognized as a regulator of pancreatic endocrine formation, and Notch signaling as an important negative regulator Ngn3 gene expression. By conditionally controlling expression of Ngn3 in the pancreas, we find that these two signaling components are dynamically linked. This connection involves transcriptional repression as previously shown, but also incorporates a novel post-translational mechanism. In addition to its ability to promote endocrine fate, we provide evidence of a competing ability of Ngn3 in the patterning of multipotent progenitor cells in turn controlling the formation of ducts. On one hand, Ngn3 cell-intrinsically activates endocrine target genes; on the other, Ngn3 cell-extrinsically promotes lateral signaling via the Dll1>Notch>Hes1 pathway which substantially limits its ability to sustain endocrine formation. Prior to endocrine commitment, the Ngn3-mediated activation of the Notch>Hes1 pathway impacts formation of the trunk domain in the pancreas causing multipotent progenitors to lose acinar, while gaining endocrine and ductal, competence. The subsequent selection of fate from such bipotential progenitors is then governed by lateral inhibition, where Notch>Hes1-mediated Ngn3 protein destabilization serves to limit endocrine differentiation by reducing cellular levels of Ngn3. This system thus allows for rapid dynamic changes between opposing bHLH proteins in cells approaching a terminal differentiation event. Inhibition of Notch signaling leads to Ngn3 protein stabilization in the normal mouse pancreas explants. We conclude that the mutually exclusive expression pattern of Ngn3/Hes1 proteins in the mammalian pancreas is partially controlled through Notch-mediated post-translational regulation and we demonstrate that the formation of insulin-producing beta-cells can be significantly enhanced upon induction of a pro-endocrine drive combined with the inhibition of Notch processing.
Nephron morphogenesis is a complex process that generates blood-filtration units (glomeruli) connected to extremely long and patterned tubular structures. Hepatocyte nuclear factor 1β (HNF1β) is a divergent homeobox transcription factor that is expressed in kidney from the first steps of nephrogenesis. Mutations in HNF1B (OMIM #137920) are frequently found in patients with developmental renal pathologies, the mechanisms of which have not been completely elucidated. Here we show that inactivation of Hnf1b in the murine metanephric mesenchyme leads to a drastic tubular defect characterized by the absence of proximal, distal and Henle's loop segments. Nephrons were eventually characterized by glomeruli, with a dilated urinary space, directly connected to collecting ducts via a primitive and short tubule. In the absence of HNF1β early nephron precursors gave rise to deformed S-shaped bodies characterized by the absence of the typical bulge of epithelial cells at the bend between the mid and lower segments. The lack of this bulge eventually led to the absence of proximal tubules and Henle's loops. The expression of several genes, including Irx1, Osr2 and Pou3f3, was downregulated in the S-shaped bodies. We also observed decreased expression of Dll1 and the consequent defective activation of Notch in the prospective tubular compartment of comma- and S-shaped bodies. Our results reveal a novel hierarchical relationship between HNF1β and key genes involved in renal development. In addition, these studies define a novel structural and functional component of S-shaped bodies at the origin of tubule formation.
The nephron is a highly specialised segmented structure that provides essential filtration and resorption renal functions. It arises by formation of a polarised renal vesicle that differentiates into a comma-shaped body and then a regionalised S-shaped body (SSB), with the main prospective segments mapped to discrete domains. The regulatory circuits involved in initial nephron patterning are poorly understood. We report here that HNF1B, a transcription factor known to be involved in ureteric bud branching and initiation of nephrogenesis, has an additional role in segment fate acquisition. Hnf1b conditional inactivation in murine nephron progenitors results in rudimentary nephrons comprising a glomerulus connected to the collecting system by a short tubule displaying distal fates. Renal vesicles develop and polarise normally but fail to progress to correctly patterned SSBs. Major defects are evident at late SSBs, with altered morphology, reduction of a proximo-medial subdomain and increased apoptosis. This is preceded by strong downregulation of the Notch pathway components Lfng, Dll1 and Jag1 and the Irx1/2 factors, which are potential regulators of proximal and Henle's loop segment fates. Moreover, HNF1B is recruited to the regulatory sequences of most of these genes. Overexpression of a HNF1B dominant-negative construct in Xenopus embryos causes downregulation specifically of proximal and intermediate pronephric segment markers. These results show that HNF1B is required for the acquisition of a proximo-intermediate segment fate in vertebrates, thus uncovering a previously unappreciated function of a novel SSB subcompartment in global nephron segmentation and further differentiation.
The six-transmembrane protein glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase 2 (GDE2) induces spinal motor neuron differentiation by inhibiting Notch signaling in adjacent motor neuron progenitors. GDE2 function requires activity of its extracellular domain that shares homology with glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterases (GDPDs). GDPDs metabolize glycerophosphodiesters into glycerol-3-phosphate and corresponding alcohols, but whether GDE2 inhibits Notch signaling by this mechanism is unclear. Here, we show that GDE2, unlike classical GDPDs, cleaves glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchors. GDE2 GDPD activity inactivates the Notch activator RECK (reversion-inducing cysteine-rich protein with kazal motifs) by releasing it from the membrane through GPI-anchor cleavage. RECK release disinhibits ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase) protease-dependent shedding of the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1), leading to Notch inactivation. This study identifies a previously unrecognized mechanism to initiate neurogenesis that involves GDE2-mediated surface cleavage of GPI-anchored targets to inhibit Dll1-Notch signaling.
BACKGROUND: Choriocarcinoma is a gestational trophoblastic tumor which causes high mortality if left untreated. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non protein-coding RNAs which inhibit target gene expression. The role of miRNAs in choriocarcinoma, however, is not well understood. In this study, we examined the effect of miR-34a in choriocarcinoma.METHODS: MiR-34a was either inhibited or ectopically expressed transiently in two choriocarcinoma cell lines (BeWo and JEG-3) respectively. Its actions on cell invasion, proliferation and colony formation at low cell density were examined. The miR-34a putative target Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (DLL1) was identified by adoption of different approaches including: in-silico analysis, functional luciferase assay and western blotting. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used to quantify changes in the expression of matrix proteinase in the treated cells. To nullify the effect of miR-34a ectopic expression, we activated Notch signaling through force-expression of the Notch intracellular domain in the miR-34a force-expressed cells. In addition, we studied the importance of DLL1 in BeWo cell invasion through ligand stimulation and antibody inhibition. Furthermore, the induction in tumor formation of miR-34a-inhibited BeWo cells in SCID mice was investigated.RESULTS: Transient miR-34a force-expression significantly suppressed cell proliferation and invasion in BeWo and JEG-3 cells. In silicon miRNA target prediction, luciferase functional assays and Western blotting analysis demonstrated that miR-34a regulated DLL1 expression in both cell lines. Although force-expression of miR-34a suppressed the expression of DLL1 and NOTCH1, the extent of suppression was higher in DLL1 than NOTCH1 in both cell lines. MiR-34a-mediated DLL1 suppression led to reduced matrix metallopeptidase 9 and urokinase-type plasminogen activator expression. The effect of miR-34a on cell invasion was partially nullified by Notch signaling activation. DLL1 ligand stimulated while anti-DLL1 antibody treatment suppressed cell invasion. Mice inoculated with BeWo cells transfected with miR-34a inhibitor had significantly larger xenografts and stronger DLL1 expression than those with cells transfected with the control inhibitor.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-34a reduced cell proliferation and invasiveness, at least, partially through its inhibitory effect on DLL1.
Notch signaling pathway is a highly conserved developmental pathway, which plays an important role in the regulation of cellular proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. Deregulation of Notch pathway has been connected with the carcinogenesis in a variety of cancers. In this study, we investigated the expression of Notch receptors (NOTCH1, NOTCH2, NOTCH3 and NOTCH4), ligands (JAG1, JAG2 and DLL1) and target gene HES1. Fifty paired samples of endometrial cancer and adjacent nontumor endometrial tissue from endometrial cancer patients were analyzed by quantitative PCR. The mRNA levels of all investigated molecules were lower in endometrial cancer compared to adjacent nontumor tissue. The expression of NOTCH1, NOTCH4 and DLL1 in IB stage adenocarcinoma was significantly lower (P < 0.05) than the expression in IA stage adenocarcinoma. Significant correlations were found between mRNA expression levels of Notch target gene HES1 and several Notch signaling molecules: NOTCH1, NOTCH3, DLL1 (P < 0.001) and NOTCH2, JAG2 (P < 0.05). This supports the notion that Notch pathway can function as tumor suppressor in human endometrial cancer.
The Delta-Notch pathway is a signal exchanger between adjacent cells to regulate numerous differentiation steps during embryonic development. Blood vessel formation by sprouting angiogenesis requires high expression of the Notch ligand DLL4 in the leading tip cell, while Notch receptors in the trailing stalk cells are activated by DLL4 to achieve strong Notch signaling activity. Upon ligand binding, Notch receptors are cleaved by ADAM proteases and gamma-secretase. This releases the intracellular Notch domain that acts as a transcription factor. There is evidence that also Notch ligands (DLL1, DLL4, JAG1, JAG2) are processed upon receptor binding to influence transcription in the ligand-expressing cell. Thus, the existence of bi-directional Delta-Notch signaling has been proposed. We report here that the Notch ligands DLL1 and JAG1 are processed in endothelial cells in a gamma-secretase-dependent manner and that the intracellular ligand domains accumulate in the cell nucleus. Overexpression of JAG1 intracellular domain (ICD) as well as DLL1-ICD, DLL4-ICD and NOTCH1-ICD inhibited endothelial proliferation. Whereas NOTCH1-ICD strongly repressed endothelial migration and sprouting angiogenesis, JAG1-ICD, DLL1-ICD and DLL4-ICD had no significant effects. Consistently, global gene expression patterns were only marginally affected by the processed Notch ligands. In addition to its effects as a transcription factor, NOTCH1-ICD promotes cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix in a transcription-independent manner. However, JAG1-ICD, DLL1-ICD and DLL4-ICD did not influence endothelial cell adhesion. In summary, reverse signaling of Notch ligands appears to be dispensable for angiogenesis in cellular systems.
BACKGROUND: Descending thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection (DTAAD) is characterized by progressive medial degeneration, which may result from excessive tissue destruction and insufficient repair. Resistance to tissue destruction and aortic self-repair are critical in preventing medial degeneration. The signaling pathways that control these processes in DTAAD are poorly understood. Because Notch signaling is a critical pathway for cell survival, proliferation, and tissue repair, we examined its activation in DTAAD.METHODS: We studied descending thoracic aortic tissue from patients with sporadic thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA; n = 14) or chronic thoracic aortic dissection (TAD; n = 16) and from age-matched organ donors (n = 12). Using western blot, real-time RT-PCR, and immunofluorescence staining, we examined aortic tissue samples for the Notch ligands Delta-like 1, Delta-like 4 (DLL1/4), and Jagged1; the Notch receptor 1 (Notch1); the Notch1 intracellular domain (NICD); and Hes1, a downstream target of Notch signaling.RESULTS: Western blots and RT-PCR showed higher levels of the Notch1 protein and mRNA and the NICD and Hes1 proteins in both TAA and TAD tissues than in control tissue. However, immunofluorescence staining showed a complex pattern of Notch signaling in the diseased tissue. The ligand DLL1/4 and Notch1 were significantly decreased and NICD and Hes1 were rarely detected in medial vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in both TAA and TAD tissues, indicating downregulation of Notch signaling in aortic VSMCs. Interestingly Jagged1, NICD, and Hes1 were highly present in CD34+ stem cells and Stro-1+ stem cells in aortas from TAA and TAD patients. NICD and Hes1 were also detected in most fibroblasts and macrophages that accumulated in the aortic wall of DTAAD patients.CONCLUSIONS: Notch signaling exhibits a complex pattern in DTAAD. The Notch pathway is impaired in medial VSMCs but activated in stem cells, fibroblasts, and macrophages.
Comment in    Cell Stem Cell. 2013 Jan 3;12(1):6-8.
Uterine vascular changes, critical for pregnancy success, occur at each implant site during endometrial decidualization. Mesometrial decidualization recruits high numbers of angiogenic, uterine Natural Killer (uNK) cells that trigger midpregnancy spiral arterial remodeling. We postulated that uNK cells contribute to early decidual angiogenesis as endothelial-cell extrinsic sources of Delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1), a molecule that induces endothelial tip cell differentiation and orthogonal vascular growth in other tissues. Virgin uteri expressed Dll1 mesometrially and anti-mesometrially and relative expression increased in both anatomic regions as pregnancy progressed. Analyses of transcripts from gd10.5 uNK cells flow sorted on the basis of expression of Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA) lectin revealed that DBA+ but not DBA- uNK cells expressed Dll1. Immunostaining at gd4.5 found DLL1-expressing cells rare. At gd6.5, DBA+ uNK cells at all stages of maturation expressed DLL1. By gd10.5, DLL1 immunoreactivity was strongly expressed by some but not all DBA+ uNK cells and more weakly by DBA- cells. DLL1+ cells were mesometrially stratified and concentrated within central decidua basalis. Our data suggest that uNK cells have the potential to induce endothelial tip cell differentiation and to promote non-planar vascular growth within early decidua basalis.
Notch receptors regulate osteoblastogenesis, and Notch activation induces cleavage and nuclear translocation of the Notch intracellular domain (NICD), which associates with Epstein-Barr virus latency C-promoter binding factor-1/suppressor of hairless/lag-1 (CSL) and induces transcription of Notch target genes, such as hairy enhancer of split-related with YRPW motif (Hey)1 and Hey2. Nuclear factors of activated T-cells (NFAT) are transcription factors that regulate osteoclastogenesis, but their function in osteoblasts is not clear. Notch inhibits NFATc1 transcription, but interactions between Notch and NFAT are understood poorly. To determine the regulation of NFAT expression by Notch, osteoblasts from Rosa(Notch) mice, where NICD is transcribed following excision of a loxP flanked STOP cassette, were used. Alternatively, wild-type C57BL/6 osteoblasts were exposed to the Notch ligand Delta-like (Dll)1 to induce Notch signaling or to bovine serum albumin as control. In Rosa(Notch) osteoblasts, Notch suppressed NFATc1 expression, increased Nfatc2 mRNA by post-transcriptional mechanisms, and had no effect on NFATc3 and NFATc4 transcripts. Induction of Nfatc2 transcripts by Notch was confirmed in C57BL/6 osteoblasts exposed to Dll1. To investigate NFATc2 function in osteoblasts, constitutively active NFATc2 was overexpressed in Rosa(Notch) osteoblasts. NFATc2 suppressed Notch transactivation and expression of Hey genes. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that NFATc2 and CSL bind to similar DNA sequences, and chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated that NFATc2 displaced CSL from the Hey2 promoter. The effects of NICD and NFATc2 in Rosa(Notch) osteoblasts were assessed, and both proteins inhibited osteoblast function. In conclusion, Notch stabilizes Nfatc2 transcripts, NFATc2 suppresses Notch signaling, and both proteins inhibit osteoblast function.
Intrathymic T cell development is predicated on the Notch1 ligand Delta-like (Dll) 4. However, both Dll4 and Dll1 can support T cell development in vitro. Endocytosis of Dll1 is important for Notch activation, whereas currently there is no evidence for the role of Dll4 endocytosis in T cell development. To elucidate this, we generated Dll4 constructs that modify or inhibit endocytosis. Our results show that targeting the intracellular domain affects Dll4's ability to induce Notch target gene expression, support efficient T cell development, and inhibit B cell development. Dll4 function relies on a combination of factors, which include strong Mindbomb1 (Mib1) association, ubiquitination, and internalization and recycling back to the cell surface, to engage Notch1 effectively. Distinct membrane localization and the Delta/Serrate/Lag2 (DSL) domain were important for Dll4 function. These features are consistent with a "recycling" model, but not in opposition to a "mechano-transduction" model, whereby Dll4 is able to engage Notch and create a pulling force required to activate signaling, leading to the induction of T-lineage development. Taken together, in contrast to Dll1, Dll4 does not localize to lipid rafts and shows stronger association with Mib1 and increased Notch1 uptake, which likely account for its superior ability to induce T cell development.
Estrogen regulates morphological changes in reproductive organs, such as the vagina and uterus, during the estrous cycles in mice. Estrogen depletion by ovariectomy in adults results in atrophy accompanied by apoptosis in vaginal and uterine cells, while estrogen treatment following ovariectomy elicits cell proliferation in both organs. Sequential changes in mRNA expression of wingless-related MMTV integration site (Wnt) and Notch signaling genes were analyzed in the vagina and uterus of ovariectomized adult mice after a single injection of 17β-estradiol to provide understanding over the molecular basis of differences in response to estrogen in these organs. We found estrogen-dependent up-regulation of Wnt4, Wnt5a and p21 and down-regulation of Wnt11, hairy/enhancer-of-split related with YRPW motif-1 (Hey1) and delta-like 4 (Dll4) in the vagina, and up-regulation of Wnt4, Wnt5a, Hey1, Heyl, Dll1, p21 and p53 and down-regulation of Wnt11, Hey2 and Dll4 in the uterus. The expression of Wnt4, Hey1, Hey2, Heyl, Dll1 and p53 showed different patterns after the estrogen injection. Expression patterns for Wnt5a, Wnt11, Dll4 and p21 in the vagina and uterus were similar, suggesting that these genes are involved in the proliferation of cells in both those organs in mice.
Prions are proteins that can adopt different infectious conformations known as "strains" or "variants," each with a distinct, epigenetically inheritable phenotype. Mechanisms by which prion variants are determined remain unclear. Here we use the Saccharomyces cerevisiae prion Rnq1p/[PIN(+)] as a model to investigate the effects of chaperone proteins upon prion variant determination. We show that deletion of specific chaperone genes alters [PIN(+)] variant phenotypes, including [PSI(+)] induction efficiency, Rnq1p aggregate morphology/size and variant dominance. Mating assays demonstrate that gene deletion-induced phenotypic changes are stably inherited in a non-Mendelian manner even after restoration of the deleted gene, confirming that they are due to a bona fide change in the [PIN(+)] variant. Together, our results demonstrate a role for chaperones in regulating the prion variant complement of a cell.
One of the greatest challenges in multiple myeloma (MM) treatment is to overcome drug resistance. Many pathways are involved including Notch signaling. Notch receptors are expressed by MM cells and Notch ligand Dll1 is present on bone marrow (BM) stromal cells. In this study, we demonstrate that Dll1 can activate Notch signaling mostly through Notch2 receptor and can contribute to drug resistance to bortezomib, both in murine and human MM cells. Blocking the Notch pathway by DAPT (gamma secretase inhibitor) could reverse this effect and increased sensitivity to bortezomib. We describe the upregulation of CYP1A1, a Cytochrome P450 enzyme involved in drug metabolism, as a possible mechanism of Dll1/Notch induced bortezomib resistance. This was confirmed by inhibition experiments using α-Naphthoflavone or CYP1A1-siRNA that resulted in an increased sensitivity to bortezomib. In addition, in vivo data showed that combination treatment of DAPT with bortezomib was able to increase bortezomib sensitivity and prolonged overall survival in the 5T33MM mouse model. Our data provide a potential strategy to overcome bortezomib resistance by Notch inhibition in MM therapy.
The Notch signaling pathway drives proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, cell fate choices and maintenance of stem cells during embryogenesis and in self-renewing tissues of the adult. In addition, aberrant Notch signaling has been implicated in several tumors, where Notch can function both as an oncogene or a tumor-suppressor gene, depending on the context.   This Extra View aims to review what is currently known about Notch signaling, in particular in gastrointestinal tumors, providing a summary of our data on Notch1 signaling in gastric cancer with results obtained in colorectal cancer (CRC). We have already reported that the epigenetic regulation of the Notch ligand DLL1 controls Notch1 signaling activation in gastric cancer, and that Notch1 inhibition is associated with the diffuse type of gastric cancer. Here, we describe additional data showing that in CRC cell lines, unlike gastric cancer, DLL1 expression is not regulated by promoter methylation. Moreover, in CRC, Notch1 receptor is not affected by any mutation. These data suggest a different regulation of Notch1 signaling between gastric cancer and CRC.
The synchronized oscillation of segmentation clock is required to generate a sharp somite boundary during somitogenesis. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this synchronization in the mouse embryos is not clarified yet. We used both experimental and theoretical approaches to address this key question. Here we show, using chimeric embryos composed of wild-type cells and Delta like 1 (Dll1)-null cells, that Dll1-mediated Notch signalling is responsible for the synchronization mechanism. By analysing Lunatic fringe (Lfng) chimeric embryos and Notch signal reporter assays using a co-culture system, we further find that Lfng represses Notch activity in neighbouring cells by modulating Dll1 function. Finally, numerical simulations confirm that the repressive effect of Lfng against Notch activities in neighbouring cells can sufficiently explain the synchronization in vivo. Collectively, we provide a new model in which Lfng has a crucial role in intercellular coupling of the segmentation clock through a trans-repression mechanism.
Lgr5+ intestinal stem cells generate enterocytes and secretory cells. Secretory lineage commitment requires Notch silencing. The Notch ligand Dll1 is expressed by a subset of immediate stem cell daughters. Lineage tracing in Dll1(GFP-ires-CreERT2) knock-in mice reveals that single Dll1(high) cells generate small, short-lived clones containing all four secretory cell types. Lineage specification thus occurs in immediate stem cell daughters through Notch lateral inhibition. Cultured Dll1(high) cells form long-lived organoids (mini-guts) on brief Wnt3A exposure. When Dll1(high) cells are genetically marked before tissue damage, stem cell tracing events occur. Thus, secretory progenitors exhibit plasticity by regaining stemness on damage.
The formation of the salt-and-pepper mosaic of hair cells and supporting cells in the sensory epithelia of the inner ear is regulated by Notch signalling and lateral inhibition, but the dynamics of this process and precise mode of action of delta-like 1 (Dll1) in this context are unclear. Here, we transfected the chicken inner ear with a fluorescent reporter that includes elements of the mammalian Hes5 promoter to monitor Notch activity in the developing sensory patches. The Hes5 reporter was active in proliferating cells and supporting cells, and Dll1 expression was highest in prospective hair cells with low levels of Notch activity, which occasionally contacted more differentiated hair cells. To investigate Dll1 functions we used constructs in which Dll1 expression was either constitutive, regulated by the Hes5 promoter, or induced by doxycycline. In support of the standard lateral inhibition model, both continuous and Hes5-regulated expression of Dll1 promoted hair cell differentiation cell-autonomously (in cis) and inhibited hair cell formation in trans. However, some hair cells formed despite contacting Dll1-overexpressing cells, suggesting that some progenitor cells are insensitive to lateral inhibition. This is not due to the cis-inhibition of Notch activity by Dll1 itself, as induction of Dll1 did not cell-autonomously reduce the activity of the Hes5 reporter in progenitor and supporting cells. Altogether, our results show that Dll1 functions primarily in trans to regulate hair cell production but also that additional mechanisms operate downstream of lateral inhibition to eliminate patterning errors in the sensory epithelia of the inner ear.
NOD/Shi-scid IL2rγnull (NOG) mice with severe immunodeficiency are excellent recipients to generate "humanized" mice by the transplantation of human CD34(+) hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). In this study, we developed NOG mice carrying a human Delta-like1 (DLL1) gene, which is a ligand of the Notch receptor and is known to be important in HSC maintenance and self-renewal. We also analyzed the effect of DLL1 signaling on human hematopoiesis and HSC maintenance using humanized DLL1 transgenic NOG mice. To develop DLL1 transgenic NOG (NOG-D1-Tg) mice, a transgenic vector consisting of a human DLL1 complementary DNA fragment placed downstream of the α1(I) collagen (Col1a1) promoter for expression specifically in osteoblasts was constructed. Human CD34(+) HSCs were transplanted into NOG-D1-Tg mice, and differentiation of lymphoid or myeloid lineage cells from human HSCs and maintenance of HSCs in bone marrow were analyzed. Severe osteosclerosis accompanied by increased bone mass and a decreased number of bone marrow cells were observed in NOG-D1-Tg mice. After human HSC transplantation, development of human B lymphocytes, but not T lymphocytes, was significantly suppressed in both bone marrow and the periphery of NOG-D1-Tg mice. Contrary to the initial expectation, retention of human CD34(+) HSCs was inhibited in the bone marrow of NOG-D1-Tg mice. In conclusion, our data suggest that the development of human B lymphocytes and HSC maintenance in osteosclerotic bone may be suppressed by introducing DLL1. These unique humanized mice with sclerotic bone reconstituted by human HSCs are useful models of hematopoiesis in patients with osteosclerosis, such as osteopetrosis, and for investigation of osteogenesis via Notch signaling.
Erratum in    PLoS Comput Biol. 2019 Jul 2;15(7):e1007191.
Keratocystic odontogenic tumors (KCOT) may occur sporadically or associated with the nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome. It is a benign aggressive tumor of odontogenic epithelial origin with a high rate of recurrence. A primary human keratocystic odontogenic tumor cell population, KCOT-1, has been established from a tumor explant culture. The KCOT-1 cells were characterized by growth rate, gene expression profiles of major tooth enamel matrix proteins (EMPs), amelogenin (AMELX), enamelin (ENAM), ameloblastin (AMBN), amelotin (AMTN), tumor-related proteins enamelysin (MMP-20), kallikrein-4 (KLK-4), and odontogenic ameloblast-associated protein (ODAM) using quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Cytokeratin 14 (CK14) was examined by immunohistochemistry. In addition, expression of the members of the sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway, SHH, patched (PTCH-1), smoothened (SMO), GLI-1, and GLI-2 and of the NOTCH signaling pathway, NOTCH-1, NOTCH-2, NOTCH-3, JAG-2 (Jagged-2), and Delta-like-1 (DLL-1) were evaluated. KCOT-1 cells were treated with SMO antagonist cyclopamine. We found that cyclopamine significantly arrested the growth of KCOT-1 cells in a dose-dependent manner and that the effects of cyclopamine were abolished by adding SHH protein. The protein expression of the SHH pathway was down-regulated by cyclopamine, further confirming that cyclopamine inhibits the SHH signaling pathway; SHH down-regulation correlated with the down-regulation of the NOTCH signaling pathway as well. In conclusion, using an established KCOT-1 cell population, we characterized the gene expression profiles related to the EMPs, SHH, and NOTCH signaling pathway and confirmed that cyclopamine significantly arrested the growth of KCOT-1 cells and may be a viable agent as a novel therapeutic.
Signaling mediated by the Delta/Notch system controls the process of lateral inhibition, known to regulate neurogenesis in metazoans. Lateral inhibition takes place in equivalence groups formed by cells having equal capacity to differentiate, and it results in the singling out of precursors, which subsequently become neurons. During normal development, areas of active neurogenesis spread through non-neurogenic regions in response to specific morphogens, giving rise to neurogenic wavefronts. Close contact of these wavefronts with non-neurogenic cells is expected to affect lateral inhibition. Therefore, a mechanism should exist in these regions to prevent disturbances of the lateral inhibitory process. Focusing on the developing chick retina, we show that Dll1 is widely expressed by non-neurogenic precursors located at the periphery of this tissue, a region lacking Notch1, lFng, and differentiation-related gene expression. We investigated the role of this Dll1 expression through mathematical modeling. Our analysis predicts that the absence of Dll1 ahead of the neurogenic wavefront results in reduced robustness of the lateral inhibition process, often linked to enhanced neurogenesis and the presence of morphological alterations of the wavefront itself. These predictions are consistent with previous observations in the retina of mice in which Dll1 is conditionally mutated. The predictive capacity of our mathematical model was confirmed further by mimicking published results on the perturbation of morphogenetic furrow progression in the eye imaginal disc of Drosophila. Altogether, we propose that Notch-independent Delta expression ahead of the neurogenic wavefront is required to avoid perturbations in lateral inhibition and wavefront progression, thus optimizing the neurogenic process.
Notch signaling controls diverse cellular processes critical to development and disease. Cell surface ligands bind Notch on neighboring cells but require endocytosis to activate signaling. The role ligand endocytosis plays in Notch activation has not been established. Here we integrate optical tweezers with cell biological and biochemical methods to test the prevailing model that ligand endocytosis facilitates recycling to enhance ligand interactions with Notch necessary to trigger signaling. Specifically, single-molecule measurements indicate that interference of ligand endocytosis and/or recycling does not alter the force required to rupture bonds formed between cells expressing the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) and laser-trapped Notch1 beads. Together, our analyses eliminate roles for ligand endocytosis and recycling in Dll1-Notch1 interactions and indicate that recycling indirectly affects signaling by regulating the accumulation of cell surface ligand. Importantly, our study demonstrates the utility of optical tweezers to test a role for ligand endocytosis in generating cell-mediated mechanical force.
Thymic stromal cells, including cortical thymic epithelial cells (cTEC) produce many humoral factors, such as cytokines and eicosanoids to modulate thymocyte homeostasis, thereby regulating the peripheral immune responses. In this study, we identified fatty acid-binding protein (FABP4), an intracellular fatty acid chaperone, in the mouse thymus, and examined its role in the control of cytokine production in comparison with FABP5. By immunofluorescent staining, FABP4(+) cells enclosing the thymocytes were scattered throughout the thymic cortex with a spatial difference from the FABP5(+) cell that were distributed widely throughout the cTEC. The FABP4(+) cells were immunopositive for MHC class II, NLDC145 and cytokeratin 8, and were identified as part of cTEC. The FABP4(+) cells were identified as thymic nurse cells (TNC), a subpopulation of cTEC, by their active phagocytosis of apoptotic thymocytes. Furthermore, FABP4 expression was confirmed in the isolated TNC at the gene and protein levels. To explore the function of FABP in TNC, TSt-4/DLL1 cells stably expressing either FABP4 or FABP5 were established and the gene expressions of various cytokines were examined. The gene expression of interleukin (IL)-7 and IL-18 was increased both in FABP4 and FABP5 over-expressing cells compared with controls, and moreover, the increase in their expressions by adding of stearic acids was significantly enhanced in the FABP4 over-expressing cells. These data suggest that both FABPs are involved in the maintenance of T lymphocyte homeostasis through the modulation of cytokine production, which is possibly regulated by cellular fatty acid-mediated signaling in TEC, including TNC.
Chromosome 6q26-27 is linked to susceptibility to visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Brazil and Sudan. DLL1 encoding the Delta-like 1 ligand for Notch 3 was implicated as the etiological gene. DLL1 belongs to the family of Notch ligands known to selectively drive antigen-specific CD4 T helper 1 cell responses, which are important in protective immune response in leishmaniasis. Here we provide further genetic and functional evidence that supports a role for DLL1 in a well-powered population-based study centred in the largest global focus of VL in India. Twenty-one single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at PHF10/C6orf70/DLL1/FAM120B/PSMB1/TBP were genotyped in 941 cases and 992 controls. Logistic regression analysis under an additive model showed association between VL and variants at DLL1 and FAM120B, with top associations (rs9460106, OR=1.17, 95%CI 1.01-1.35, P=0.033; rs2103816, OR=1.16, 95%CI 1.01-1.34, P=0.039) robust to analysis using caste as a covariate to take account of population substructure. Haplotype analysis taking population substructure into account identified a common 2-SNP risk haplotype (frequency 0.43; P=0.028) at FAM120B, while the most significant protective haplotype (frequency 0.18; P=0.007) was a 5-SNP haplotype across the interval 5' of both DLL1 (negative strand) and FAM120B (positive strand) and extending to intron 4 of DLL1. Quantitative RT/PCR was used to compare expression of 6q27 genes in paired pre- and post-treatment splenic aspirates from VL patients (N=19). DLL1 was the only gene to show differential expression that was higher (P<0.0001) in pre- compared to post-treatment samples, suggesting that regulation of gene expression was important in disease pathogenesis. This well-powered genetic and functional study in an Indian population provides evidence supporting DLL1 as the etiological gene contributing to susceptibility to VL at Chromosome 6q27, confirming the potential for polymorphism at DLL1 to act as a genetic risk factor across the epidemiological divides of geography and parasite species.
Author information:(1)Nanjing University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jiangsu Integrate Colorectal Oncology Center, Nanjing, China. jinheiying@yahoo.com.cn
The Notch signaling pathway is a critical component of vascular formation and morphogenesis in both development and disease. Compelling evidence indicates that Notch signaling is required for the induction of arterial-cell fate during development and for the selection of endothelial tip and stalk cells during sprouting angiogenesis. In mammals, two of the four Notch receptors (Notch1 and Notch4) and three of the five Notch ligands (Jagged1, Dll1 and Dll4) are predominantly expressed in vascular endothelial cells and are important for many aspects of vascular biology. During arterial cell-fate selection and angiogenesis, the roles of Notch1 and Notch4 are thought to be similar and the role of Dll4 is well-characterized. However, the molecular mechanisms that determine the functional similarities and differences of Notch ligands in vascular endothelial cells remain largely unknown; consequently, additional research is needed to elucidate the ligand-specific functions and mechanisms associated with Notch activation in the vascular endothelium. Results from recent studies indicate that Dll1 and Dll4 have distinct roles in the specification and maintenance of arterial cell identity, while Dll4 and Jagged1 have opposing effects on tip- and stalk-cell selection during sprouting angiogenesis. This chapter will focus on the newly discovered, distinct roles of several Notch ligands in the regulation of blood vessel formation and will provide perspectives for future research in the field.
INTRODUCTION: Osteoclastogenesis plays an important role in the bone erosion of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Recently, Notch receptors have been implicated in the development of osteoclasts. However, the responsible Notch ligands have not been identified yet. This study was undertaken to determine the role of individual Notch receptors and ligands in osteoclastogenesis.METHODS: Mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages or human peripheral blood monocytes were used as osteoclast precursors and cultured with receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL) and macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) to induce osteoclasts. Osteoclasts were detected by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) staining. K/BxN serum-induced arthritic mice and ovariectomized mice were treated with anti-mouse Delta-like 1 (Dll1) blocking monoclonal antibody (mAb).RESULTS: Blockade of a Notch ligand Dll1 with mAb inhibited osteoclastogenesis and, conversely, immobilized Dll1-Fc fusion protein enhanced it in both mice and humans. In contrast, blockade of a Notch ligand Jagged1 enhanced osteoclastogenesis and immobilized Jagged1-Fc suppressed it. Enhancement of osteoclastogenesis by agonistic anti-Notch2 mAb suggested that Dll1 promoted osteoclastogenesis via Notch2, while suppression by agonistic anti-Notch1 mAb suggested that Jagged1 suppressed osteoclastogenesis via Notch1. Inhibition of Notch signaling by a gamma-secretase inhibitor suppressed osteoclastogenesis, implying that Notch2/Dll1-mediated enhancement was dominant. Actually, blockade of Dll1 ameliorated arthritis induced by K/BxN serum transfer, reduced the number of osteoclasts in the affected joints and suppressed ovariectomy-induced bone loss.CONCLUSIONS: The differential regulation of osteoclastogenesis by Notch2/Dll1 and Notch1/Jagged1 axes may be a novel target for amelioration of bone erosion in RA patients.
The Delta-Notch pathway is an evolutionarily conserved signaling pathway which controls a broad range of developmental processes including cell fate determination, terminal differentiation and proliferation. In mammals, four Notch receptors (NOTCH1-4) and five activating canonical ligands (JAGGED1, JAGGED2, DLL1, DLL3 and DLL4) have been described. The precise function of noncanonical Notch ligands remains unclear. Delta-like 1 homolog (DLK1), the best studied noncanonical Notch ligand, has been shown to act as an inhibitor of Notch signaling in vitro, but its function in vivo is poorly understood. In this review we summarize Notch signaling during development and highlight recent studies in DLK1expression that reveal new insights into its function.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Paneth cells contribute to the small intestinal niche of Lgr5(+) stem cells. Although the colon also contains Lgr5(+) stem cells, it does not contain Paneth cells. We investigated the existence of colonic Paneth-like cells that have a distinct transcriptional signature and support Lgr5(+) stem cells.METHODS: We used multicolor fluorescence-activated cell sorting to isolate different subregions of colon crypts, based on known markers, from dissociated colonic epithelium of mice. We performed multiplexed single-cell gene expression analysis with quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction followed by hierarchical clustering analysis to characterize distinct cell types. We used immunostaining and fluorescence-activated cell sorting analyses with in vivo administration of a Notch inhibitor and in vitro organoid cultures to characterize different cell types.RESULTS: Multicolor fluorescence-activated cell sorting could isolate distinct regions of colonic crypts. Four major epithelial subtypes or transcriptional states were revealed by gene expression analysis of selected populations of single cells. One of these, the goblet cells, contained a distinct cKit/CD117(+) crypt base subpopulation that expressed Dll1, Dll4, and epidermal growth factor, similar to Paneth cells, which were also marked by cKit. In the colon, cKit(+) goblet cells were interdigitated with Lgr5(+) stem cells. In vivo, this colonic cKit(+) population was regulated by Notch signaling; administration of a γ-secretase inhibitor to mice increased the number of cKit(+) cells. When isolated from mouse colon, cKit(+) cells promoted formation of organoids from Lgr5(+) stem cells, which expressed Kitl/stem cell factor, the ligand for cKit. When organoids were depleted of cKit(+) cells using a toxin-conjugated antibody, organoid formation decreased.CONCLUSIONS: cKit marks small intestinal Paneth cells and a subset of colonic goblet cells that are regulated by Notch signaling and support Lgr5(+) stem cells.
RATIONALE: In developing blood vessels, single endothelial cells (ECs) specialize into tip cells that sense vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and contribute to vessel sprouting and branch formation. Tip cell differentiation is inhibited through lateral Notch signaling between ECs, which is controlled by Notch ligands expressed in vessel sprouts. The contribution of the Notch ligand Delta-like (Dll) 1 herein is unknown.OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of Dll1 in vascular morphogenesis and tip cell formation in the mouse retina.METHODS AND RESULTS: Mice with heterozygous deletion of Dll1 had fewer tip cells during angiogenic sprouting of the superficial vascular plexus but also showed impaired vessel branching into deeper retinal layers and impaired deep plexus angiogenesis. Interestingly, the formation of vertical branches was also guided by filopodia-extending ECs located at the tip of branches, consistent with tip cells, which emerged from established vessels to form a secondary plexus within the deeper neuronal cell layers. During both phases of vascular patterning, Dll1 was not expressed in ECs but in the superficial neuronal layer in close contact with expanding vessels, where Dll1 expression coincided with tip cell formation in a spatiotemporal manner. In vitro, culture of ECs on DLL1 induced essential tip cell genes, including Dll4, VEGF receptor 3, and ephrin-B2, and stimulated VEGF responsiveness and vascular network formation.CONCLUSIONS: Dll1 acts as an extrinsic cue involved in tip cell selection, which directs vessel sprouting and branch formation.
Esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) arises from Barrett esophagus (BE), intestinal-like columnar metaplasia linked to reflux esophagitis. In a transgenic mouse model of BE, esophageal overexpression of interleukin-1β phenocopies human pathology with evolution of esophagitis, Barrett-like metaplasia and EAC. Histopathology and gene signatures closely resembled human BE, with upregulation of TFF2, Bmp4, Cdx2, Notch1, and IL-6. The development of BE and EAC was accelerated by exposure to bile acids and/or nitrosamines, and inhibited by IL-6 deficiency. Lgr5(+) gastric cardia stem cells present in BE were able to lineage trace the early BE lesion. Our data suggest that BE and EAC arise from gastric progenitors due to a tumor-promoting IL-1β-IL-6 signaling cascade and Dll1-dependent Notch signaling.
The Notch signaling pathway drives proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, cell fate, and maintenance of stem cells in several tissues. Aberrant activation of Notch signaling has been described in several tumours and in gastric cancer (GC), activated Notch1 has been associated with de-differentiation of lineage-committed stomach cells into stem progenitors and GC progression. However, the specific role of the Notch1 ligand DLL1 in GC has not yet been elucidated. To assess the role of DLL1 in GC cancer, the expression of Notch1 and its ligands DLL1 and Jagged1, was analyzed in 8 gastric cancer cell lines (KATOIII, SNU601, SNU719, AGS, SNU16, MKN1, MKN45, TMK1). DLL1 expression was absent in KATOIII, SNU601, SNU719 and AGS. The lack of DLL1 expression in these cells was associated with promoter hypermethylation and 5-aza-2'dC caused up-regulation of DLL1. The increase in DLL1 expression was associated with activation of Notch1 signalling, with an increase in cleaved Notch1 intracellular domain (NICD) and Hes1, and down-regulation in Hath1. Concordantly, Notch1 signalling was activated with the overexpression of DLL1. Moreover, Notch1 signalling together with DLL1 methylation were evaluated in samples from 52 GC patients and 21 healthy control as well as in INS-GAS mice infected with H. pylori and randomly treated with eradication therapy. In GC patients, we found a correlation between DLL1 and Hes1 expression, while DLL1 methylation and Hath1 expression were associated with the diffuse and mixed type of gastric cancer. Finally, none of the samples from INS-GAS mice infected with H. pylori, a model of intestinal-type gastric tumorigenesis, showed promoter methylation of DLL1. This study shows that Notch1 activity in gastric cancer is controlled by the epigenetic silencing of the ligand DLL1, and that Notch1 inhibition is associated with the diffuse type of gastric cancer.
Specialized dendritic cells (DCs) within the thymus are crucial for the deletion of autoreactive T cells. The question of whether these cells arise from intrathymic precursors with T-cell potential has been hotly debated, and the regulatory pathways and signals that direct their development remain unclear. Here, we compared the gene expression profiles of thymic DC subsets with those of four early thymic precursor subsets: early T-cell precursors (ETPs), double-negative 1c (DN1c), double-negative 1d (DN1d) and double-negative 1e (DN1e) subsets. We found that the DN1d subset expressed Spi-B, HEBCan, Ccr7 and Ccr4, similar to thymic plasmacytoid DCs, whereas the DN1e subset expressed Id2, Ccr7 and Ccr4, similar to thymic conventional DCs. The expression of Ccr7 and Ccr4 in DN1d and DN1e cells suggested that they might be able to migrate towards the medulla (low in Dll proteins) and away from the cortex (high in Dll proteins) where early T-cell development occurs. We therefore assessed the sensitivity of developing DC precursors to Dll-Notch signaling, and found that high levels of Dll1 or Dll4 were inhibitory to DC development, whereas medium levels of Dll4 allowed DC development but not myeloid development. To evaluate directly the lineage potential of the ETP, DN1d and DN1e subsets, we injected them into nonirradiated congenic hosts intrathymically or intravenously, and found that they were all able to form medullary DCs in vivo. Therefore, DN1d and DN1e cells are transcriptionally primed to home to the thymus, migrate into DC-permissive microenvironments and develop into medullary DCs.
The axial skeleton is a defining feature of vertebrates and is patterned during somitogenesis. Cyclically expressed members of the notch and other signaling pathways, described as the 'segmentation clock', regulate the formation of somite boundaries. Comparisons among vertebrate model systems have revealed fundamental shifts in the regulation of expression among critical genes in the notch pathway. However, insights into the evolution of these expression differences have been limited by the lack of information from non-avian reptiles. We analyzed the segmentation clock of the first Lepidosaurian reptile sequenced, the green anole lizard, Anolis carolinensis, for comparison with avian and mammalian models. Using genomic sequence, RNA-Seq transcriptomic data, and in situ hybridization analysis of somite-stage embryos, we carried out comparative analyses of key genes and found that the anole segmentation clock displays features common to both amniote and anamniote vertebrates. Shared features with anamniotes, represented by Xenopus laevis and Danio rerio, include an absence of lunatic fringe (lfng) expression within the presomitic mesoderm (PSM), a hes6a gradient in the PSM not observed in the chicken or mouse, and EGF repeat structure of the divergent notch ligand, dll3. The anole and mouse share cycling expression of dll1 ligand in the PSM. To gain insight from an Archosaurian reptile, we analysed LFNG and DLL1 expressions in the American alligator. LFNG expression was absent in the alligator PSM, like the anole but unlike the chicken. In contrast, DLL1 expression does not cycle in the PSM of the alligator, similar to the chicken but unlike the anole. Thus, our analysis yields novel insights into features of the segmentation clock that are evolutionarily basal to amniotes versus those that are specific to mammals, Lepidosaurian reptiles, or Archosaurian reptiles.
While murine B- and T-lymphopoiesis require overlapping molecules, they occur in separate organs: the bone marrow (BM) and the thymus, respectively. The BM microenvironment is incapable of supporting T-lymphopoiesis because of insufficient interactions of Notch1 with delta-like ligand (Dll). Notch1/Dll interactions also play a role in the suppression of B-lymphopoiesis in the thymus. However, it is still unclear whether the Notch1/Dll interaction alone explains why the thymus does not support B-lymphopoiesis. In this study, we compared the precursor population colonizing the thymus with that in the BM by culturing them on stromal cells expressing abundant Dll1. We demonstrated that Flt3(+) Il7r(+) B220(+) Cd19(+) BM cells gave rise to B cells under this condition. We defined them as resistant to Dll1. In the thymus, Dll1-resistant cells were undetectable. This suggested that the absence of Dll1-resistant cells might explain the absence of B-lymphopoiesis in the thymus.
Neurog3-induced Dll1 expression in pancreatic endocrine progenitors ostensibly activates Hes1 expression via Notch and thereby represses Neurog3 and endocrine differentiation in neighboring cells by lateral inhibition. Here we show in mouse that Dll1 and Hes1 expression deviate during regionalization of early endoderm, and later during early pancreas morphogenesis. At that time, Ptf1a activates Dll1 in multipotent pancreatic progenitor cells (MPCs), and Hes1 expression becomes Dll1 dependent over a brief time window. Moreover, Dll1, Hes1 and Dll1/Hes1 mutant phenotypes diverge during organ regionalization, become congruent at early bud stages, and then diverge again at late bud stages. Persistent pancreatic hypoplasia in Dll1 mutants after eliminating Neurog3 expression and endocrine development, together with reduced proliferation of MPCs in both Dll1 and Hes1 mutants, reveals that the hypoplasia is caused by a growth defect rather than by progenitor depletion. Unexpectedly, we find that Hes1 is required to sustain Ptf1a expression, and in turn Dll1 expression in early MPCs. Our results show that Ptf1a-induced Dll1 expression stimulates MPC proliferation and pancreatic growth by maintaining Hes1 expression and Ptf1a protein levels.
NOTCH signaling induced by Delta1 (DLL1) and Jagged1 (JAG1) NOTCH ligands is modulated by the β3N-acetylglucosaminyl transferase Fringe. LFNG (Lunatic Fringe) and MFNG (Manic Fringe) transfer N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) to O-fucose attached to EGF-like repeats of NOTCH receptors. In co-culture NOTCH signaling assays, LFNG generally enhances DLL1-induced, but inhibits JAG1-induced, NOTCH signaling. In mutant Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells that do not add galactose (Gal) to the GlcNAc transferred by Fringe, JAG1-induced NOTCH signaling is not inhibited by LFNG or MFNG. In mouse embryos lacking B4galt1, NOTCH signaling is subtly reduced during somitogenesis. Here we show that DLL1-induced NOTCH signaling in CHO cells was enhanced by LFNG, but this did not occur in either Lec8 or Lec20 CHO mutants lacking Gal on O-fucose glycans. Lec20 mutants corrected with a B4galt1 cDNA became responsive to LFNG. By contrast, MFNG promoted DLL1-induced NOTCH signaling better in the absence of Gal than in its presence. This effect was reversed in Lec8 cells corrected by expression of a UDP-Gal transporter cDNA. The MFNG effect was abolished by a DDD to DDA mutation that inactivates MFNG GlcNAc transferase activity. The binding of soluble NOTCH ligands and NOTCH1/EGF1-36 generally reflected changes in NOTCH signaling caused by LFNG and MFNG. Therefore, the presence of Gal on O-fucose glycans differentially affects DLL1-induced NOTCH signaling modulated by LFNG versus MFNG. Gal enhances the effect of LFNG but inhibits the effect of MFNG on DLL1-induced NOTCH signaling, with functional consequences for regulating the strength of NOTCH signaling.
Influenza A viral infections have been identified as the etiologic agents for historic pandemics, and contribute to the annual mortality associated with acute viral pneumonia. While both innate and acquired immunity are important in combating influenza virus infection, the mechanism connecting these arms of the immune system remains unknown. Recent data have indicated that the Notch system is an important bridge between antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and T cell communication circuits and plays a central role in driving the immune system to overcome disease. In the present study, we examine the role of Notch signaling during influenza H1N1 virus infection, focusing on APCs. We demonstrate here that macrophages, but not dendritic cells (DCs), increased Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) expression following influenza virus challenge. Dll1 expression on macrophages was dependent on retinoic acid-inducible gene-I (RIG-I) induced type-I IFN pathway, and not on the TLR3-TRIF pathway. We also found that IFNα-Receptor knockout mice failed to induce Dll1 expression on lung macrophages and had enhanced mortality during influenza virus infection. Our results further showed that specific neutralization of Dll1 during influenza virus challenge induced higher mortality, impaired viral clearance, and decreased levels of IFN-γ. In addition, we blocked Notch signaling by using γ-secretase inhibitor (GSI), a Notch signaling inhibitor. Intranasal administration of GSI during influenza infection also led to higher mortality, and higher virus load with excessive inflammation and an impaired production of IFN-γ in lungs. Moreover, Dll1 expression on macrophages specifically regulates IFN-γ levels from CD4(+)and CD8(+)T cells, which are important for anti-viral immunity. Together, the results of this study show that Dll1 positively influences the development of anti-viral immunity, and may provide mechanistic approaches for modifying and controlling the immune response against influenza H1N1 virus infection.
PDZ domains recognise short sequence motifs at the extreme C-termini of proteins. A model based on microarray data has been recently published for predicting the binding preferences of PDZ domains to five residue long C-terminal sequences. Here we investigated the potential of this predictor for discovering novel protein interactions that involve PDZ domains. When tested on real negative data assembled from published literature, the predictor displayed a high false positive rate (FPR). We predicted and experimentally validated interactions between four PDZ domains derived from the human proteins MAGI1 and SCRIB and 19 peptides derived from human and viral C-termini of proteins. Measured binding intensities did not correlate with prediction scores, and the high FPR of the predictor was confirmed. Results indicate that limitations of the predictor may arise from an incomplete model definition and improper training of the model. Taking into account these limitations, we identified several novel putative interactions between PDZ domains of MAGI1 and SCRIB and the C-termini of the proteins FZD4, ARHGAP6, NET1, TANC1, GLUT7, MARCH3, MAS, ABC1, DLL1, TMEM215 and CYSLTR2. These proteins are localised to the membrane or suggested to act close to it and are often involved in G protein signalling. Furthermore, we showed that, while extension of minimal interacting domains or peptides toward tandem constructs or longer peptides never suppressed their ability to interact, the measured affinities and inferred specificity patterns often changed significantly. This suggests that if protein fragments interact, the full length proteins are also likely to interact, albeit possibly with altered affinities and specificities. Therefore, predictors dealing with protein fragments are promising tools for discovering protein interaction networks but their application to predict binding preferences within networks may be limited.
OBJECTIVE: Deleted in malignant brain tumors 1 (DMBT1) belongs to the scavenger receptor cysteine-rich superfamily of proteins and is implicated in innate immunity, cell polarity, and differentiation. Here we studied the role of DMBT1 in endothelial cells.METHODS AND RESULTS: DMBT1 was secreted into the extracellular matrix (ECM) by endothelial cells in vitro and in situ and the presence of DMBT1 in the ECM increased endothelial cell adherence. Endothelial cell-derived DMBT1 associated with galectin-3 (coprecipitation), and human recombinant DMBT1 bound EGF, vascular endothelial growth factor and Delta-like (Dll) 4 (specific ELISAs). Compared to cells from wild-type mice, endothelial cells from DMBT1(-/-) mice demonstrated reduced migration, proliferation, and tube formation. In vivo recovery from hindlimb ischemia was attenuated in DMBT1(-/-) animals as was vascular endothelial growth factor -induced endothelial sprouting from isolated aortic rings; the latter response could be rescued by the addition of recombinant DMBT1. The Notch pathway is involved in multiple aspects of vascular development, including arterial-venous differentiation and we found that endothelial cells from DMBT1(-/-) mice expressed more EphrinB2 than cells from wild-type mice. Levels of Dll1, Dll4, Hes1, Hey1, and EphB4, on the other hand, were decreased.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the results of this study indicate that DMBT1 functions as an important endothelium-derived ECM protein that is able to bind angiogenic factors and promote adhesion, migration, proliferation, and angiogenesis as well as vascular repair. Mechanistically, DMBT1 interacts with galectin-3 and modulates the Notch signaling pathway as well as the differential expression of ephrin-B2 and EphB4.
Vertebrate Cdx genes encode homeodomain transcription factors related to caudal in Drosophila. The murine Cdx homologues Cdx1, Cdx2 and Cdx4 play important roles in anterior-posterior patterning of the embryonic axis and the intestine, as well as axial elongation. While our understanding of the ontogenic programs requiring Cdx function has advanced considerably, the molecular bases underlying these functions are less well understood. In this regard, Cdx1-Cdx2 conditional mutants exhibit abnormal somite formation, while loss of Cdx1-Cdx2 in the intestinal epithelium results in a shift in differentiation toward the Goblet cell lineage. The aim of the present study was to identify the Cdx-dependent mechanisms impacting on these events. Consistent with prior work implicating Notch signaling in these pathways, we found that expression of the Notch ligand Dll1 was reduced in Cdx mutants in both the intestinal epithelium and paraxial mesoderm. Cdx members occupied the Dll1 promoter both in vivo and in vitro, while genetic analysis indicated interaction between Cdx and Dll1 pathways in both somitogenesis and Goblet cell differentiation. These findings suggest that Cdx members operate upstream of Dll1 to convey different functions in two distinct lineages.
MOTIVATION: In the developing nervous system, the expression of proneural genes, i.e. Hes1, Neurogenin-2 (Ngn2) and Deltalike-1 (Dll1), oscillates in neural progenitors with a period of 2-3 h, but is persistent in post-mitotic neurons. Unlike the synchronization of segmentation clocks, oscillations in neural progenitors are asynchronous between cells. It is known that Notch signaling, in which Notch in a cell can be activated by Dll1 in neighboring cells (trans-activation) and can also be inhibited by Dll1 within the same cell (cis-inhibition), is important for neural fate decisions. There have been extensive studies of trans-activation, but the operating mechanisms and potential implications of cis-inhibition are less clear and need to be further investigated.RESULTS: In this article, we present a computational model for neural fate decisions based on intertwined dynamics with trans-activation and cis-inhibition involving the Hes1, Notch and Dll1 proteins. In agreement with experimental observations, the model predicts that both trans-activation and cis-inhibition play critical roles in regulating the choice between remaining as a progenitor and embarking on neural differentiation. In particular, trans-activation is essential for generation of oscillations in neural progenitors, and cis-inhibition is important for the asynchrony between adjacent cells, indicating that the asynchronous oscillations in neural progenitors depend on cooperation between trans-activation and cis-inhibition. In contrast, cis-inhibition plays more critical roles in embarking on neural differentiation by inactivating intercellular Notch signaling. The model presented here might be a good candidate for providing the first qualitative mechanism of neural fate decisions mediated by both trans-activation and cis-inhibition.
Delta ligands are important for regulating Notch signaling through transcellular stimulation of Notch receptors. The cytoplasmic tails of Delta ligands have multiple potential regulatory sites including several lysine residues that are putative targets for ubiquitination by the E3 ubiquitin ligases, Mind Bomb and Neuralized. To identify possible roles for specific lysine residues in the cytoplasmic tail of the Notch ligand Dll1 a mutational and functional analysis was performed. Examination of a panel of individual or clustered lysine mutants demonstrated that lysine 613 (K613) in the cytoplasmic tail of Dll1 is a key residue necessary for transcellular activation of Notch signaling. Multi-ubiquitination of the Dll1 mutant Dll1-K613R was altered compared to wild type Dll1, and the K613R mutation blocked the ability of Dll1 to interact with Notch1. Finally, mutation of K613 did not affect the stability of Dll1 or its ability to traffic to recycle to the plasma membrane, but did enhance the fraction associated with lipid rafts. Collectively these results suggest that the transcellular defect in Notch signaling attributed to residue K613 in cytoplasmic tail of Dll1 may result from altering its multi-ubiquitination and increasing its retention in lipid rafts.
BACKGROUND: Through negative regulation of gene expression, microRNAs (miRNAs) can function as oncosuppressors in cancers, and can themselves show altered expression in various tumor types. Here, we have investigated medulloblastoma tumors (MBs), which arise from an early impairment of developmental processes in the cerebellum, where Notch signaling is involved in many of the cell-fate-determining stages. Notch regulates a subset of MB cells that have stem-cell-like properties and can promote tumor growth. On the basis of this evidence, we hypothesized that miRNAs targeting the Notch pathway can regulate these phenomena, and can be used in anti-cancer therapies.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In a screening of potential targets within Notch signaling, miR-34a was seen to be a regulator of the Notch pathway through its targeting of Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1). Down-regulation of Dll1 expression by miR-34a negatively regulates cell proliferation, and induces apoptosis and neural differentiation in MB cells. Using an inducible tetracycline on-off model of miR-34a expression, we show that in Daoy MB cells, Dll1 is the first target that is regulated in MB, as compared to the other targets analyzed here: Cyclin D1, cMyc and CDK4. MiR-34a expression negatively affects CD133(+)/CD15(+) tumor-propagating cells, then we assay through reverse-phase proteomic arrays, Akt and Stat3 signaling hypo-phosphorylation. Adenoviruses carrying the precursor miR-34a induce neurogenesis of tumor spheres derived from a genetic animal model of MB (Patch1(+/-) p53(-/-)), thus providing further evidence that the miR-34a/Dll1 axis controls both autonomous and non autonomous signaling of Notch. In vivo, miR-34a overexpression carried by adenoviruses reduces tumor burden in cerebellum xenografts of athymic mice, thus demonstrating an anti-tumorigenic role of miR-34a in vivo.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Despite advances in our understanding of the pathogenesis of MB, one-third of patients with MB remain incurable. Here, we show that stable nucleic-acid-lipid particles carrying mature miR-34a can target Dll1 in vitro and show equal effects to those of adenovirus miR-34a cell infection. Thus, this technology forms the basis for their therapeutic use for the delivery of miR-34a in brain-tumor treatment, with no signs of toxicity described to date in non-human primate trials.
The stem cells of the small intestine are multipotent: they give rise, via transit-amplifying cell divisions, to large numbers of columnar absorptive cells mixed with much smaller numbers of three different classes of secretory cells--mucus-secreting goblet cells, hormone-secreting enteroendocrine cells, and bactericide-secreting Paneth cells. Notch signaling is known to control commitment to a secretory fate, but why are the secretory cells such a small fraction of the population, and how does the diversity of secretory cell types arise? Using the mouse as our model organism, we find that secretory cells, and only secretory cells, pass through a phase of strong expression of the Notch ligand Delta1 (Dll1). Onset of this Dll1 expression coincides with a block to further cell division and is followed in much less than a cell cycle time by expression of Neurog3--a marker of enteroendocrine fate--or Gfi1--a marker of goblet or Paneth cell fate. By conditional knock-out of Dll1, we confirm that Delta-Notch signaling controls secretory commitment through lateral inhibition. We infer that cells stop dividing as they become committed to a secretory fate, while their neighbors continue dividing, explaining the final excess of absorptive over secretory cells. Our data rule out schemes in which cells first become committed to be secretory, and then diversify through subsequent cell divisions. A simple mathematical model shows how, instead, Notch signaling may simultaneously govern the commitment to be secretory and the choice between alternative modes of secretory differentiation.
PURPOSE: To investigate the involvement of δ-like ligand (Dll)4 in the development of experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis (EAU) in B10.RIII mice.METHODS: B10.RIII mice were immunized with interphotoreceptor retinoid binding protein (IRBP) peptide 161-180 in complete Freund's adjuvant together with intraperitoneal injection of Bordetella pertussis toxin. mRNA expressions of Notch receptors and their ligands in the eye were evaluated. To investigate the involvement of Dll in EAU, anti-Dll1, anti-Dll4, or control antibody (Ab) was intraperitoneally injected during both the induction and the effector phases or only the effector phase. Alternatively, mice were intraperitoneally injected with γ-secretase inhibitor (GSI) or the control vehicle during the induction phase. Fourteen days after immunization, the eyes and spleens were harvested. The eyes were used for histologic and/or cytokine mRNA expression analysis, whereas the spleens were used for flow cytometric analysis, and antigen-recall proliferation and cytokine assays.RESULTS: Expression of Notch1, 2, 4, and Dll4 in the eye were upregulated by EAU induction. Anti-Dll4 Ab treatment during both the induction and effector phases, but not only the effector phase, significantly reduced the severity of EAU. IFN-γ, IL-12p35, IL-17A, and TGF-β mRNA expression in the eye were significantly attenuated by treatment with anti-Dll4 Ab. Splenocytes from anti-Dll4 Ab-treated mice showed significantly less proliferation and IL-17 production on antigen stimulation. Also, the severity of EAU was significantly reduced by γ-secretase inhibitor treatment during the induction phase. CONCLUSIONS; Dll4-mediated Notch signaling during the sensitization is critical for the development of EAU. This can be a novel prophylactic target for autoimmune uveitis.
Multiciliated cells lining the surface of some vertebrate epithelia are essential for various physiological processes, such as airway cleansing. Their apical surface is constituted by hundreds of motile cilia, which beat in a coordinated manner to generate directional fluid flow. We recently reported the identification of microRNAs of the miR-449 family as evolutionary conserved key regulators of vertebrate multiciliogenesis. This novel function of miR-449 was established using in vivo and in vitro antisense approaches in two distinct experimental models. miR-449 strongly accumulated in multiciliated cells in human airway epithelium and Xenopus laevis embryonic epidermis, where it triggered centriole multiplication and multiciliogenesis by directly repressing the Delta/Notch pathway. Our data complement previous reports that showed the blocking action of miR-449 on the cell cycle, and unraveled a novel conserved mechanism whereby Notch signaling must undergo microRNA-mediated inhibition to permit differentiation of ciliated cell progenitors. We review here several important questions regarding the links between microRNAs and the Notch pathway in the control of cell fate.
The goal of this study was to compare the effects of acute 2 Gy irradiation with photons (0.8 Gy/min) or protons (0.9 Gy/min), both with and without pre-exposure to low-dose/low-dose-rate γ rays (0.01 Gy at 0.03 cGy/h), on 84 genes involved in stem cell differentiation or regulation in mouse lungs on days 21 and 56. Genes with a ≥1.5-fold difference in expression and P < 0.05 compared to 0 Gy controls are emphasized. Two proteins specific for lung stem cells/progenitors responsible for local tissue repair were also compared. Overall, striking differences were present between protons and photons in modulating the genes. More genes were affected by protons than by photons (22 compared to 2 and 6 compared to 2 on day 21 and day 56, respectively) compared to 0 Gy. Preirradiation with low-dose-rate γ rays enhanced the acute photon-induced gene modulation on day 21 (11 compared to 2), and all 11 genes were significantly downregulated on day 56. On day 21, seven genes (aldh2, bmp2, cdc2a, col1a1, dll1, foxa2 and notch1) were upregulated in response to most of the radiation regimens. Immunoreactivity of Clara cell secretory protein was enhanced by all radiation regimens. The number of alveolar type 2 cells positive for prosurfactant protein C in irradiated groups was higher on day 56 (12.4-14.6 cells/100) than on day 21 (8.5-11.2 cells/100) (P < 0.05). Taken together, these results showed that acute photons and protons induced different gene expression profiles in the lungs and that pre-exposure to low-dose-rate γ rays sometimes had modulatory effects. In addition, proteins associated with lung-specific stem cells/progenitors were highly sensitive to radiation.
Hirschsprung (HSCR) disease is a complex genetic disorder attributed to a failure of the enteric neural crest cells (ENCCs) to form ganglia in the hindgut. Hedgehog and Notch are implicated in mediating proliferation and differentiation of ENCCs. Nevertheless, how these signaling molecules may interact to mediate gut colonization by ENCCs and contribute to a primary etiology for HSCR are not known. Here, we report our pathway-based epistasis analysis of data generated by a genome-wide association study on HSCR disease, which indicates that specific genotype constellations of Patched (PTCH1) (which encodes a receptor for Hedgehog) and delta-like 3 (DLL3) (which encodes a receptor for Notch) SNPs confer higher risk to HSCR. Importantly, deletion of Ptch1 in mouse ENCCs induced robust Dll1 expression and activation of the Notch pathway, leading to premature gliogenesis and reduction of ENCC progenitors in mutant bowels. Dll1 integrated Hedgehog and Notch pathways to coordinate neuronal and glial cell differentiation during enteric nervous system development. In addition, Hedgehog-mediated gliogenesis was found to be highly conserved, such that Hedgehog was consistently able to promote gliogenesis of human neural crest-related precursors. Collectively, we defined PTCH1 and DLL3 as HSCR susceptibility genes and suggest that Hedgehog/Notch-induced premature gliogenesis may represent a new disease mechanism for HSCR.
Deficiencies in immune function that accumulate during cancer immunoediting lead to a progressive escape from host immunosurveillance. Therapies that correct or overcome these defects could have a powerful impact on cancer management, but current knowledge of the types and mechanisms of immune escape is still incomplete. Here, we report a novel mechanism of escape from T-cell immunity that is caused by reduction in levels of the Delta family Notch ligands DLL1 and DLL4 in hematopoietic microenvironments. An important mediator of this effect was an elevation in the levels of circulating VEGF. Selective activation of the DLL1-Notch signaling pathway in bone marrow precursors enhanced T-cell activation and inhibited tumor growth. Conversely, tumor growth led to inhibition of Delta family ligand signaling through Notch in the hematopoietic environment, resulting in suppressed T-cell function. Overall, our findings uncover a novel mechanism of tumoral immune escape and suggest that a soluble multivalent form of DLL1 may offer a generalized therapeutic intervention to stimulate T-cell immunity and suppress tumor growth.
Notch signaling plays an important role in vascular development and tumor angiogenesis. It has been shown that disruption of Dll4-triggered Notch signal activation effectively inhibits tumor growth, but this treatment also results in the formation of vascular neoplasms. In this study, we investigate the effects of over-expressing Notch ligand Dll1 in B16 melanoma cells on tumor cell proliferation and tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Our results showed that over-expression of Dll1 could activate Notch signaling in tumor cells, and promote tumor cell proliferation in vitro. In contrast, growth of Dll1-over-expressing tumors in vivo was reduced, due to abnormal tumor vessel formation. Impaired tumor vasculature enhanced hypoxia and necrosis in tumor tissues, leading to retarded tumor growth. These results suggest that activation of Notch signaling may serve as an anti-angiogenesis strategy in the treatment of malignant tumors.
BACKGROUND: Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is caused by Leishmania donovani and Leishmania infantum chagasi. Genome-wide linkage studies from Sudan and Brazil identified a putative susceptibility locus on chromosome 6q27.METHODS: Twenty-two single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at genes PHF10, C6orf70, DLL1, FAM120B, PSMB1, and TBP were genotyped in 193 VL cases from 85 Sudanese families, and 8 SNPs at genes PHF10, C6orf70, DLL1, PSMB1, and TBP were genotyped in 194 VL cases from 80 Brazilian families. Family-based association, haplotype, and linkage disequilibrium analyses were performed. Multispecies comparative sequence analysis was used to identify conserved noncoding sequences carrying putative regulatory elements. Quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction measured expression of candidate genes in splenic aspirates from Indian patients with VL compared with that in the control spleen sample.RESULTS: Positive associations were observed at PHF10, C6orf70, DLL1, PSMB1, and TBP in Sudan, but only at DLL1 in Brazil (combined P = 3 × 10(-4) at DLL1 across Sudan and Brazil). No functional coding region variants were observed in resequencing of 22 Sudanese VL cases. DLL1 expression was significantly (P = 2 × 10(-7)) reduced (mean fold change, 3.5 [SEM, 0.7]) in splenic aspirates from patients with VL, whereas other 6q27 genes showed higher levels (1.27 × 10(-6) < P < .01) than did the control spleen sample. A cluster of conserved noncoding sequences with putative regulatory variants was identified in the distal promoter of DLL1.CONCLUSIONS: DLL1, which encodes Delta-like 1, the ligand for Notch3, is strongly implicated as the chromosome 6q27 VL susceptibility gene.
In neural stem/progenitor cells, expression of the Notch effector Hes1, a transcriptional repressor, oscillates with a period of 2-3 h by negative feedback, and Hes1 oscillations induce the oscillatory expression of the proneural gene Neurogenin2 (Ngn2) and the Notch ligand gene Delta-like1 (Dll1). Dll1 oscillation leads to the mutual activation of Notch signaling between neighboring cells, thereby maintaining a group of cells in the undifferentiated state. Not all cells express Hes1 in an oscillatory manner: cells in boundary regions such as the isthmus express Hes1 in a sustained manner, and these cells are rather dormant with regard to proliferation and differentiation. Thus, Hes1 allows cell proliferation and differentiation when its expression oscillates but induces dormancy when its expression is sustained. After Hes1 expression is repressed, Ngn2 is expressed in a sustained manner, promoting neuronal differentiation. Thus, Ngn2 leads to the maintenance of neural stem/progenitor cells by inducing Dll1 oscillation when its expression oscillates but to neuronal differentiation when its expression is sustained. These results indicate that the different dynamics of Hes1 and Ngn2 lead to different outcomes.
Interleukin (IL)-33 is a cytokine belonging to the IL-1 family. IL-33 plays an important role in Th2 immune responses, and induces goblet cell hyperplasia in the intestinal mucosa. In this study, to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying IL-33-induced goblet cell hyperplasia, we investigated how IL-33 modulates the Notch signaling pathway in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced experimental colitis. DSS colitis was induced in BALB/c mice with intraperitoneal administrations of IL-33 (1 µg/body) every 48 h. Tissue samples were evaluated by standard immunohistochemical procedures. The mucosal mRNA expression of the Notch ligands was analyzed by a real-time polymerase chain reaction. The mucosal mRNA expression of Notch ligands [Jagged1 (Jag1) and Delta-like (Dll) 1 and 4] was significantly increased in DSS-colitis mice. IL-33-induced goblet cell hyperplasia in the control mice. In the DSS-colitis mice, the goblet cells were depleted in the colon, but IL-33 completely prevented goblet cell depletion in the DSS-colitis mice. IL-33 induced a significant decrease in Jag1 and Dll4 mRNA expression in the mucosa of the control mice. Mucosal mRNA expression for Jag1, Dll1 and 4 was significantly elevated in the DSS-colitis mice, but this elevation was significantly blocked by the administration of IL-33. IL-33 dose-dependently decreased Jag1 mRNA expression in mouse colonic subepithelial myofibroblasts. In contrast to its preventive effects on goblet cell depletion, IL-33 aggravated DSS colitis. IL-33 prevented goblet cell depletion via its inhibitory actions against Notch ligand expression in DSS colitis, but exacerbated the disease activity. IL-33 plays two counter actions in mucosal inflammation; the first is a protective action via goblet cell induction, and the second is a pro-inflammatory action as a Th2 cytokine.
Notch signaling involves the proteolytic cleavage of the transmembrane Notch receptor after binding to its transmembrane ligands. The Delta-like ligand 1 also undergoes proteolytic cleavage upon Notch binding, resulting in the production of a free intracellular domain. In this study, we have demonstrated that the Delta-like 1 intracellular domain (Dll1-IC) specifically binds to Notch1-IC in the nucleus, thereby disrupting the association of the Notch1-IC-RBP-Jk-MAM transcription activator complex. Additionally, the Notch1-mediated blockage of the induction of MyoD is abolished by the co-expression of Dll1-IC. Collectively, our results show that Dll1-IC functions as a negative regulator in Notch signaling via the disruption of the Notch1-IC-RBP-Jk complex.
Erratum in    Nat Cell Biol. 2011 Oct;13(10):1280.
Although many literature data are available on the role of Notch signaling in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) biology, the importance of this molecular pathway in the development of B-lineage ALL (B-ALL) cells in the BM microenvironment is unknown so far. In this study, we used anti-Notch molecules neutralizing Abs and γ-secretase inhibitor (GSI) XII to investigate the role of the Notch signaling pathway in the promotion of human B-ALL cell survival in presence of stromal cell support. The treatment with combinations of anti-Notch molecule neutralizing Abs resulted in the decrease of B-ALL cell survival, either cultured alone or cocultured in presence of stromal cells from normal donors and B-ALL patients. Interestingly, the inhibition of Notch-3 and -4 or Jagged-1/-2 and DLL-1 resulted in a dramatic increase of apoptotic B-ALL cells by 3 days, similar to what is obtained by blocking all Notch signaling with the GSI XII. Our data suggest that the stromal cell-mediated antiapoptotic effect on B- ALL cells is mediated by Notch-3 and -4 or Jagged-1/-2 and DLL-1 in a synergistic manner.
Notch signalling controls the differentiation of haematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs). Here, we show that loss of membrane-type 1 matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP, MMP14), a cell surface protease expressed in bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs), increases Notch signalling in HPCs and specifically impairs B-lymphocyte development. When co-cultured with BMSCs in vitro, HPCs differentiation towards B lymphocytes is significantly compromised on MT1-MMP-deficient BMSCs and this defect could be completely rescued by DAPT, a specific Notch signalling inhibitor. The defective B-lymphocyte development could also be largely rescued by DAPT in vivo. MT1-MMP interacts with Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) and promotes its cleavage on cell surface in BMSCs. Ectopic MT1-MMP cleaves Dll1 and results in diminished Notch signalling in co-cultured cells. In addition, recombinant MT1-MMP cleaves a synthetic Dll1 peptide at the same site where MT1-MMP cleaves Dll1 on the cell surface. Our data suggest that MT1-MMP directly cleaves Dll1 on BMSCs to negatively regulate Notch signalling to specifically maintain normal B-cell development in bone marrow.
BACKGROUND: Mutagenesis screens in the mouse have been proven useful for the identification of novel gene functions and generation of interesting mutant alleles. Here we describe a phenotype-based screen for recessive mutations affecting embryonic development.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Mice were mutagenized with N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) and following incrossing the offspring, embryos were analyzed at embryonic day 10.5. Mutant phenotypes that arose in our screen include cardiac and nuchal edema, neural tube defects, situs inversus of the heart, posterior truncation and the absence of limbs and lungs. We isolated amongst others novel mutant alleles for Dll1, Ptprb, Plexin-B2, Fgf10, Wnt3a, Ncx1, Scrib(Scrib, Scribbled homolog [Drosophila]) and Sec24b. We found both nonsense alleles leading to severe protein truncations and mutants with single-amino acid substitutions that are informative at a molecular level. Novel findings include an ectopic neural tube in our Dll1 mutant and lung defects in the planar cell polarity mutants for Sec24b and Scrib.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Using a forward genetics approach, we have generated a number of novel mutant alleles that are linked to disturbed morphogenesis during development.
Notch genes play a critical role in mammary gland growth, development and tumorigenesis. In the present study, we have quantitatively determined the levels and mRNA expression patterns of the Notch receptor genes, their ligands and target genes in the postnatal mouse mammary gland. The steady state levels of Notch3 mRNA are the highest among receptor genes, Jagged1 and Dll3 mRNA levels are the highest among ligand genes and Hey2 mRNA levels are highest among expressed Hes/Hey target genes analyzed during different stages of postnatal mammary gland development. Using an immunohistochemical approach with antibodies specific for each Notch receptor, we show that Notch proteins are temporally regulated in mammary epithelial cells during normal mammary gland development in the FVB/N mouse. The loss of ovarian hormones is associated with changes in the levels of Notch receptor mRNAs (Notch2 higher and Notch3 lower) and ligand mRNAs (Dll1 and Dll4 are higher, whereas Dll3 and Jagged1 are lower) in the mammary gland of ovariectomized mice compared to intact mice. These data define expression of the Notch ligand/receptor system throughout development of the mouse mammary gland and help set the stage for genetic analysis of Notch in this context.
Unlike the well-characterized nuclear function of the Notch intracellular domain, it has been difficult to identify a nuclear role for the ligands of Notch. Here we provide evidence for the nuclear function of the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 in colon cancer (CC) cells exposed to butyrate. We demonstrate that the intracellular domain of Delta-like 1 (Dll1icd) augments the activity of Wnt signaling-dependent reporters and that of the promoter of the connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) gene. Data suggest that Dll1icd upregulates CTGF promoter activity through both direct and indirect mechanisms. The direct mechanism is supported by co-immunoprecipitation of endogenous Smad2/3 proteins and Dll1 and by chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses that revealed the occupancy of Dll1icd on CTGF promoter sequences containing a Smad binding element. The indirect upregulation of CTGF expression by Dll1 is likely due to the ability of Dll1icd to increase Wnt signaling, a pathway that targets CTGF. CTGF expression is induced in butyrate-treated CC cells and results from clonal growth assays support a role for CTGF in the cell growth-suppressive role of butyrate. In conclusion, integration of the Notch, Wnt, and TGFbeta/Activin signaling pathways is in part mediated by the interactions of Dll1 with Smad2/3 and Tcf4.
Author information:(1)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450052, China.
In the vertebrate neuroepithelium, the decision to differentiate is made by neural precursors soon after mitosis, when they are apically located. This process is controlled by lateral inhibitory signals triggered by the Delta/Notch pathway. During mitosis, the capacity of neural precursors to express the neurogenic genes Dll1 and Notch1 is maximal due to mRNA stabilization, but the mechanism controlling this process remains unknown. Here we show that Elav-like (Elavl1)/HuR becomes enriched in the cytoplasm of neuroepithelial cells undergoing mitosis and that this ribonucleoprotein interacts with the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of Dll1 mRNA. This interaction is functionally relevant because RNAi against Elavl1 reduces the stability of Dll1-3'UTR-containing transcripts in mitosis-arrested neuroepithelial cells, and Elavl1 null-mutant heterozygous mice show decreased Dll1 expression in the developing brain in vivo. We also show that RNAi against Elavl1 diminishes the capacity of brain precursors to trigger lateral inhibitory signals to their neighbors, an observation consistent with the increase in the rate of neurogenesis which can be detected in vivo in the developing retina of Elavl1 heterozygous mice. We conclude that Elavl1/HuR facilitates the exposure of vertebrate neuronal precursors to apically located Delta/Notch signals.
Mast cells constitutively express Notch1 and Notch2 on the cell surface. Notch ligand Dll1 (Delta-like 1) stimulation induces MHC class II expression in mast cells and renders them as antigen-presenting cells. However, nothing is known about the mechanism by which Notch signaling induces MHC class II expression in mast cells. MHC class II genes are regulated by the class II transactivator (CIITA). In mice, transcription of the CIITA gene is controlled by three cell type-specific promoters (pI, pIII, and pIV). Here, we show that CIITA expression induced by Dll1 stimulation in mouse bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMCs) depends critically on the signal mediated by Notch1 and that the most dominant promoter in Notch signaling-mediated CIITA expression in BMMCs is pIII, which is a lymphoid lineage-specific promoter. ChIP assays indicated that Notch signaling increased the binding of the transcription factor PU.1 to CIITA pIII in BMMCs. The knockdown of PU.1 expression using a specific siRNA suppressed Notch signaling-mediated CIITA expression, suggesting that PU.1 contributes to the expression of MHC class II induced by Notch signaling in mast cells. Furthermore, we show that a portion of freshly isolated splenic mast cells express MHC class II and that the most dominant promoter of CIITA in mast cells is pIII. These findings indicate that activation of CIITA pIII plays an important role in MHC class II expression in mast cells.
The Hedgehog (Hh) signaling network is critical for patterning and organogenesis in mammals, and has been implicated in a variety of cancers. Smoothened (Smo), the gene encoding the principal signal transducer, is overexpressed frequently in breast cancer, and constitutive activation in MMTV-SmoM2 transgenic mice caused alterations in mammary gland morphology, increased proliferation, and changes in stem/progenitor cell number. Both in transgenic mice and in clinical specimens, proliferative cells did not usually express detectable Smo, suggesting the hypothesis that Smo functioned in a non-cell autonomous manner to stimulate proliferation. Here, we employed a genetically tagged mouse model carrying a Cre-recombinase-dependent conditional allele of constitutively active Smo (SmoM2) to test this hypothesis. MMTV-Cre- or adenoviral-Cre-mediated SmoM2 expression in the luminal epithelium, but not in the myoepithelium, was required for the hyper-proliferative phenotypes. High levels of proliferation were observed in cells adjacent or in close-proximity to Smo expressing cells demonstrating that SmoM2 expressing cells were stimulating proliferation via a paracrine or juxtacrine mechanism. In contrast, Smo expression altered luminal cell differentiation in a cell-autonomous manner. SmoM2 expressing cells, purified by fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) via the genetic fluorescent tag, expressed high levels of Ptch2, Gli1, Gli2, Jag2 and Dll-1, and lower levels of Notch4 and Hes6, in comparison to wildtype cells. These studies provide insight into the mechanism of Smo activation in the mammary gland and its possible roles in breast tumorigenesis. In addition, these results also have potential implications for the interpretation of proliferative phenotypes commonly observed in other organs as a consequence of hedgehog signaling activation.
Comment in    Gastroenterology. 2011 Apr;140(4):1135-9.
Genetics of Holoprosencephaly (HPE), a congenital malformation of the developing human forebrain, is due to multiple genetic defects. Most genes that have been implicated in HPE belong to the sonic hedgehog signaling pathway. Here we describe a new candidate gene isolated from array comparative genomic hybridization redundant 6qter deletions, DELTA Like 1 (DLL1), which is a ligand of NOTCH. We show that DLL1 is co-expressed in the developing chick forebrain with Fgf8. By treating chick embryos with a pharmacological inhibitor, we demonstrate that DLL1 interacts with FGF signaling pathway. Moreover, a mutation analysis of DLL1 in HPE patients revealed a three-nucleotide deletion. These various findings implicate DLL1 in early patterning of the forebrain and identify NOTCH as a new signaling pathway involved in HPE.
Notch signalling is critical to help direct T-cell lineage commitment in early T-cell progenitors and in the development of αβ T-cells. Epithelial and stromal cell populations in the thymus express the Notch DSL (Delta, Serrate and Lag2)ligands Delta-like 1 (Dll1), Delta-like 4 (Dll4), Jagged 1 and Jagged 2, and induce Notch signalling in thymocytes that express the Notch receptor. At present there is nothing known about the role of the Delta-like 3 (Dll3) ligand in the immune system. Here we describe a novel cell autonomous role for Dll3 in αβ T-cell development. We show that Dll3 cannot activate Notch when expressed in trans but like other Notch ligands it can inhibit Notch signalling when expressed in cis with the receptor. The loss of Dll3 leads to an increase in Hes5 expression in double positive thymocytes and their increased production of mature CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. Studies using competitive irradiation chimeras proved that Dll3 acts in a cell autonomous manner to regulate positive selection but not negative selection of autoreactive T cells. Our results indicate that Dll3 has a unique function during T-cell development that is distinct from the role played by the other DSL ligands of Notch and is in keeping with other recent studies indicating that Dll1 and Dll3 ligands have non-overlapping roles during embryonic development.
BACKGROUND: Notch signalling regulates neuronal differentiation in the vertebrate nervous system. In addition to a widespread function in maintaining neural progenitors, Notch signalling has also been involved in specific neuronal fate decisions. These functions are likely mediated by distinct Notch ligands, which show restricted expression patterns in the developing nervous system. Two ligands, in particular, are expressed in non-overlapping complementary domains of the embryonic spinal cord, with Jag1 being restricted to the V1 and dI6 progenitor domains, while Dll1 is expressed in the remaining domains. However, the specific contribution of different ligands to regulate neurogenesis in vertebrate embryos is still poorly understood.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this work, we investigated the role of Jag1 and Dll1 during spinal cord neurogenesis, using conditional knockout mice where the two genes are deleted in the neuroepithelium, singly or in combination. Our analysis showed that Jag1 deletion leads to a modest increase in V1 interneurons, while dI6 neurogenesis was unaltered. This mild Jag1 phenotype contrasts with the strong neurogenic phenotype detected in Dll1 mutants and led us to hypothesize that neighbouring Dll1-expressing cells signal to V1 and dI6 progenitors and restore neurogenesis in the absence of Jag1. Analysis of double Dll1;Jag1 mutant embryos revealed a stronger increase in V1-derived interneurons and overproduction of dI6 interneurons. In the presence of a functional Dll1 allele, V1 neurogenesis is restored to the levels detected in single Jag1 mutants, while dI6 neurogenesis returns to normal, thereby confirming that Dll1-mediated signalling compensates for Jag1 deletion in V1 and dI6 domains.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our results reveal that Dll1 and Jag1 are functionally equivalent in controlling the rate of neurogenesis within their expression domains. However, Jag1 can only activate Notch signalling within the V1 and dI6 domains, whereas Dll1 can signal to neural progenitors both inside and outside its domains of expression.
Erratum in    Dev Biol. 2011 Aug 15;356(2):608.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Notch expression is not yet determined in hepatoblastoma. In this study the effect of chemotherapeutics (cisplatin, doxorubicin, cytosin arabinoside); differentiating agent (13 cis-retinoic acid) and apoptotic agents (5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, arsenic trioxide) on notch expression in hepatoblastoma were evaluated.METHODOLOGY: After HepG2 cell line was cultured and the agents and their combinations were applied for 24 hour in pre-optimized 50% lethal doses, RNA isolation and cDNA converting, expression of 84 custom array genes of notch signaling pathway (SABiosciences, PAT059F-24) was determined by Real Time PCR. The methylation status of 6 genes that showed more than 5 fold changes compared with control group were explored by Methylation qPCR Assay. High expressed genes are HDAC1, NFKB1, CHUK, CDKN1A, and CBL. Low expressed genes are DLL1, CD44, FZD2, GLI1, IL17B, LMO2, NOTCH1, LOR, PAX5, PT-CRA, SH2D1A, and WISP1. The genes searched for methylation (DLL1, HEY1, DTX1, HDAC1, NOTCH2 and JAG1) were not found to be related with methylation.RESULTS: The high expressed genes are related with cell proliferation. The main signaling genes that are closed to notch in signaling pathway are low expressed in hepatoblastoma. The agents do not show prominent effect of gene expression in many genes and methylation is not the reason of expression changes. The use of retinoic acid in the control of minimal residual disease of hepatoblastoma should be discussed. 5 aza "cytidin" the demethylating agent is not advised in treatment according to our results.CONCLUSION: Cisplatin as main chemotherapeutic agent treatment is shown to change gene expression levels in notch signalling pathway in hepatoblastoma.
Mast cells (MCs) accumulate in chronic inflammatory sites; however, it is not clear which adhesion molecules are involved in this process. Recently, the expression of Notch ligands was reported to be upregulated in inflammatory sites. Although Notch receptors are known as signaling molecules that can activate integrins, their contributions to the adhesion of MCs have not been studied. In this study, we demonstrated that mouse MCs efficiently adhered to stromal cells forced to express a Notch ligand, Delta-like 1 (Dll1). Surprisingly, the adhesion was a consequence of direct cell-cell interaction between MCs and Dll1-expressing stromal cells rather than activation of downstream effectors of Notch receptor(s)-Dll1. The adhesion of MCs to Dll1-expressing stromal cells remained even when the cell metabolism was arrested. The recognition was blocked only by inhibition of Notch receptor(s)-Dll1 interaction by addition of soluble DLL1, or mAbs against Dll1 or Notch2. Taken together, these results indicate that Notch receptor(s) and Dll1 directly promote the adhesion of MCs to stromal cells by acting as adhesion molecules. This appreciation that Notch receptor-ligand interactions have an adhesion function will provide an important clue to molecular basis of accumulation of MCs to inflammatory sites.
OBJECTIVE: To assess whether ageing processes influence angiogenesis in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) we carried out a pilot study of vascular properties in a series of archival primary kidney tumours in patients of different ages.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cohort of patients with RCC was identified restrospectively, with an age range of 35-84 years. Paraffin-embedded, formalin-fixed sections of surgical tumour specimens were stained for endothelial (CD31, von Willebrand factor [vWF]), pericyte (alpha smooth muscle actin [SMA]) and leucocytic (CD45) markers, as well as for proliferative (Ki67) and angiogenic activity (tumour endothelial markers [TEMs], delta-like 4 [Dll4], Dll1, endothelial nitric oxide synthase [eNOS]). Vascular properties were compared between patients above and below 65 years of age.RESULTS: Microvascular density (MVD) within capillary hot spots was generally higher in patients with non-metastatic clear-cell RCC (ccRCC; n = 21) than in those with metastatic RCC (mRCC; n= 9). Patients with ccRCC who were more than 65 years old showed significantly higher MVD than their younger (< 65 years) counterparts. There were dividing (Ki67-positive) endothelial and mural cells in both small (< 20 µm) capillary and large (> 20 µm), pre-capillary vessels, suggesting the involvement of both angiogenic and remodelling/arteriogenic processes. Tumour endothelial markers (TEM1, TEM7, TEM8), Notch ligands (Dll1, Dll4), and other molecular characteristics (eNOS) were analysed. Age-related differences were observed in the frequency of pre-capillary vessels expressing Dll1, which was significantly higher in tumours of younger patients (< 65 years), while eNOS was more prevalent among capillaries associated with ccRCC in older patients (>6 5 years).CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study suggest that age influences the structural and molecular properties of the tumour vasculature in ccRCC. We postulate that vascular ageing could also be relevant in the context of anti-angiogenic therapy.
OBJECTIVE: Notch signaling is crucial for cell-to-cell interaction during cardiovascular development and may influence differentiation, proliferation, and apoptotic events. We investigated whether Notch signaling is activated during myocardial remodeling in heart failure (HF).DESIGN: Myocardial gene expression and localization of Notch receptors (Notch1-4) and ligands (Jagged1-2, and Delta-like (Dll)-1 and 4) were investigated in rats with HF after induction of myocardial infarction and in humans with HF.RESULTS: All Notch receptors and ligands investigated and Notch intracellular domain (NICD) were present in rat and human myocardial tissue and in cardiomyocytes with differences in their relative expression levels and altered expression levels in failing vs. non-failing myocardium. In isolated rat cardiomyocytes, Notch3 and Notch4 appeared to be the major Notch receptors, and Notch3 and Notch4 mRNA levels and NICD-3 and -4 in cardiomyocytes were upregulated in chronic HF (p < 0.05), indicating increased Notch3 and Notch4 signaling.CONCLUSION: The Notch signaling system is present in the cardiomyocytes and activated in HF, indicating a role of Notch signaling during myocardial remodeling in HF.
Notch signaling mediated by Delta-like (Dll) 4 is essential and sufficient for T-cell development in vivo. Stromal cells expressing Dll4 or Dll1, but not Jagged1, support T lymphopoiesis in vitro, but the molecular basis of this functional divergence among Notch ligands remains to be clarified. To examine this, we constructed chimeric variants composed of Dll4 and Jagged1. The intracellular regions were necessary, but interchangeable, for signal induction, and the extracellular regions determined the unique characteristics of the ligands. While Jagged1 induced minimal Notch signaling, Jagged2 elicited substantial levels of Hes1 transcripts and promoted T lymphopoiesis in vitro. Dll4 and Jagged2 showed a quantitative advantage when bound to fringe-modified Notch; this was not due to the Delta-Serrate-Lag2 domain, an extracellular region essential for interaction with Notch. These results suggest that different Notch ligands possess distinct potentials for the induction of Notch signaling through unique interactions of their extracellular regions with fringe-modified Notch. Furthermore, the magnitude of Notch signaling induced is critical for the determination of T-cell fate.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Tangdu Hospital, The Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710038, Shaanxi Province, China.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have regulatory functions during vertebrate embryogenesis. They are short approximately 21bp long endogenously expressed single-stranded RNAs, which preferentially bind to complementary sequences in the 3' untranslated regions (UTR) of mRNAs and typically down-regulate the respective target mRNAs by translational repression or enhanced mRNA degradation. The Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) is expressed in a highly dynamic pattern and has pleiotropic functions during embryogenesis and in adult tissues. Here, we report an interspecies in silico analysis to identify 16 miRNAs, which potentially bind to the mouse, human and chicken Dll1 3'UTRs. To analyze whether these miRNAs could regulate Dll1 gene expression during somitogenesis and neurogenesis, we performed a systematic whole mount in situ hybridisation screen, followed by radioactive in situ hybridisation on sections, using LNA modified DNA probes in mouse embryos. We find that 7 miRNAs (miR-34a, miR-103, miR-107, miR-130a, miR-130b, miR-449a and miR-449c) are expressed in developing somites, limbs, restricted regions of the brain and neural tube between 9.5 dpc and 12.5 dpc. This suggests that these miRNAs could possibly target the Dll1 3'UTR in these regions. The other miRNAs are not expressed or below the detection limit and thus are unlikely to regulate Dll1 at the analyzed embryonic stages.
Erratum in    J Immunol. 2010 Sep 15;185(6):3777-8.
Fgf signaling plays pivotal roles in mouse gastrulation and left-right axis formation. However, although genetic analyses have revealed important aspects of Fgf signaling in these processes, the temporal resolution of genetic studies is low. Here, we combined whole-embryo culture with application of chemical compounds to inhibit Fgf signaling at specific time points. We found that sodium chlorate and PD173074 are potent inhibitors of Fgf signaling in early mouse embryos. Fgf signaling is required for the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition of the primitive streak before the onset of gastrulation. Once gastrulation begins, Fgf signaling specifies mesodermal fates via the Ras/MAPK downstream cascade. Finally, Fgf signaling on the posterior side of the embryo during gastrulation induces Nodal expression in the node via Tbx6-Dll1, the initial event required for Nodal expression in the left lateral plate mesoderm.
Notch signaling is critical for T-cell generation in the thymus. Notch signaling is linear in nature and is highly regulated through differential gene expression and post-translational modification. Upon ligand binding, the Notch receptor is sequentially cleaved, first via extracellular ADAM protease-mediated cleavage, followed by an intracellular presenilin-dependent cleavage to release the Notch intracellular domain and activate transcription. Delta-like-1 (Dll1) is a Notch ligand that positively regulates T-cell development. Dll1 is proteolytically processed in a similar manner to the Notch receptor, and it has been speculated to participate in bidirectional signaling. We hypothesized that inhibition of Dll1 processing in Notch signal sending cells would lead to changes in their ability to support thymopoiesis. We used the OP9 in vitro co-culture system, and transduced OP9s with full length, cleavable Dll1 or a non-cleavable mutant (NC-Dll1) lacking the ADAM protease cleavage site. OP9-NC-Dll1 cells were able to support T-cell development with similar efficacy to OP9-Dll1 cells. Interestingly, expression of the Notch target gene Hes5 was more highly induced in T-cell progenitors by NC-Dll1, whereas expression of Hes1, Deltex1, and pre-Tα were similar to controls. Furthermore, a reduced ability of hematopoietic progenitors to assume the granulocyte cell fate in OP9-NC-Dll1 cultures was noted. Taken together, these findings show that proteolytic cleavage of Dll1 in Notch signal sending cells is dispensable for murine T-cell development, differentially affects expression of Notch target genes, and might be a mechanism that regulates myelopoiesis.
Controlling metastasis is the key to improving outcomes for osteosarcoma patients; yet our knowledge of the mechanisms regulating the metastatic process is incomplete. Clearly Fas and Ezrin are important, but other genes must play a role in promoting tumor spread. Early developmental pathways are often recapitulated in malignant tissues, and these genes are likely to be important in regulating the primitive behaviors of tumor cells, including invasion and metastasis. The Notch pathway is a highly conserved regulatory signaling network involved in many developmental processes and several cancers, at times serving as an oncogene and at others, behaving as a tumor suppressor. In normal limb development, Notch signaling maintains the apical ectodermal ridge in the developing limb bud and regulated size of bone and muscles. Here, we examine the role of Notch signaling in promoting metastasis of osteosarcoma, and the underlying regulatory processes that control Notch pathway expression and activity in the disease. We have shown that, compared to normal human osteoblasts and non-metastatic osteosarcoma cell lines, osteosarcoma cell lines with the ability to metastasize have higher levels of Notch 1, Notch 2, the Notch ligand DLL1 and the Notch-induced gene Hes1. When invasive osteosarcoma cells are treated with small molecule inhibitors of gamma-secretase, which blocks Notch activation, invasiveness is abrogated. Direct retroviral expression has shown that Hes1 expression was necessary for osteosarcoma invasiveness and accounted for the observations. In a novel orthotopic murine xenograft model of osteosarcoma pulmonary metastasis, blockade of Hes1 expression and Notch signaling eliminated spread of disease from the tibial primary tumor. In a sample of archival human osteosarcoma tumor specimens, expression of Hes1 mRNA was inversely correlated with survival (n=16 samples, p=0.04). Expression of the microRNA 34 cluster, which is known to downregulate DLL1, Notch 1 and Notch 2, was inversely correlated with invasiveness in a small panel of osteosarcoma tumors, suggesting that this family of microRNAs may be responsible for regulating Notch expression in at least some tumors. Further, exposure to valproic acid at therapeutic concentrations induced expression of Notch genes and caused a 250-fold increase in invasiveness for non-invasive cell lines, but had no discernible effect on those lines that expressed high levels of Notch without valproic acid treatment, suggesting a role for HDAC in regulating Notch pathway expression in osteosarcoma. These findings show that the Notch pathway is important in regulating osteosarcoma metastasis and may be useful as a therapeutic target. Better understanding of Notch's role and its regulation will be essential in planning therapies with other agents, especially the use of valproic acid and other HDAC inhibitors.
Notch signaling has previously been implicated in the regulation of the cell fate of intestinal epithelial cells. However, the expression and function of Notch ligands in the human intestine remain largely unknown. In the present study, we showed that Notch ligands Delta-like 1 (Dll1) and Delta-like 4 (Dll4) are expressed in a goblet cell-specific manner in human colonic tissue. Additionally, we found that Dll1 and Dll4 expression was regulated in-parallel with Atoh1 and MUC2, which are both under the control of the Notch-Hes1 signaling pathway. Because knockdown of Dll1 expression completely abrogated the acquisition of the goblet cell phenotype in Notch-inactivated colonic epithelial cells, we postulate that Dll1 might function as a cis-acting regulatory element that induces undifferentiated cells to become goblet cells. Our results suggest a link between Dll1 expression and human goblet cell differentiation that might be mediated by a function that is distinct from its role as a Notch receptor ligand.
Homeodomain (HD) transcription factors and components of the Notch pathway [Delta1 (Dll1), Jagged1 (Jag1) and the Fringe (Fng) proteins] are expressed in distinct progenitor domains along the dorsoventral (DV) axis of the developing spinal cord. However, the internal relationship between these two regulatory pathways has not been established. In this report we show that HD proteins act upstream of Notch signalling. Thus, HD proteins control the spatial distribution of Notch ligands and Fng proteins, whereas perturbation of the Notch pathway does not affect the regional expression of HD proteins. Loss of Dll1 or Jag1 leads to a domain-specific increase of neuronal differentiation but does not affect the establishment of progenitor domain boundaries. Moreover, gain-of-function experiments indicate that the ability of Dll1 and Jag1 to activate Notch is limited to progenitors endogenously expressing the respective ligand. Fng proteins enhance Dll1-activated Notch signalling and block Notch activation mediated by Jag1. This finding, combined with the overlapping expression of Fng with Dll1 but not with Jag1, is likely to explain the domain-specific activity of the Notch ligands. This outcome is opposite to the local regulation of Notch activity in most other systems, including the Drosophila wing, where Fng co-localizes with Jagged/Serrate rather than Dll/Delta, which facilitates Notch signalling at regional boundaries instead of within domains. The regulation of Notch activation in the spinal cord therefore appears to endow specific progenitor populations with a domain-wide autonomy in the control of neurogenesis and prevents any inadequate activation of Notch across progenitor domain boundaries.
Normal human diploid fibroblasts have limited life span in culture and undergo replicative senescence after 50-60 population doublings. On the contrary, cancer cells typically divide indefinitely and are immortal. Expression of SV40 large T and small t antigens in human fibroblasts transiently extends their life span by 20-30 population doublings and facilitates immortalization. We have identified a rearrangement in chromosome 6 shared by SV40-transformed human fibroblasts. Rearrangements involving chromosome 6 are among the most frequent in human carcinogenesis. In this paper, we extend analysis of the 6q26-q27 region, a putative site for a growth suppressor gene designated SEN6 involved in immortalization of SV40-transformed cells. Detailed molecular characterization of the rearranged chromosomes (6q*, normal appearing; and 6q(t), translocated) in the SV40-immortalized cell line HALneo by isolating each of these 2 chromosomes in mouse/HAL somatic cell hybrids is presented. Analysis of these mouse/HAL somatic cell hybrids with polymorphic and nonpolymorphic markers revealed that the 6q* has undergone a chromosomal break in the MLLT4 gene (alias AF6). This result in conjunction with previous published observations leads us to conclude that SEN6 lies between MLLT4 and TBP at chromosomal region 6q27. Examination of different genes (MLLT4, DLL1, FAM120B, PHF10) located within this interval that are expressed in HS74 normal fibroblast cells reveals that overexpression of epitope-tagged truncated PHF10 cDNAs resulted in reduced cell proliferation in multiple cell lines. Paradoxically, down-regulation of PHF10 by RNAi also resulted in loss of cell proliferation in normal fibroblast cells, indicating PHF10 function is required for cell growth. Taken together, these observations suggest that decreased cell proliferation with epitope-tagged truncated PHF10 proteins may be due to dominant negative effects or due to unregulated expression of these mutant proteins. Hence we conclude that PHF10 is not SEN6 but is required for cell growth.
The Notch signaling pathway is a critical component of vascular formation and morphogenesis in both development and disease. Compelling evidence indicates that Notch signaling is required for the induction of arterial-cell fate during development and for the selection of endothelial tip and stalk cells during sprouting angiogenesis. In mammals, two of the four Notch receptors (Notch1 and Notch4) and three of the five Notch ligands (Jagged1, Dll1, and Dll4) are predominantly expressed in vascular endothelial cells and are important for many aspects of vascular biology. During arterial cell-fate selection and angiogenesis, the roles of Notch1 and Notch4 are thought to be similar, and the function of Dll4 is well-characterized. However, the molecular mechanisms that determine the functional similarities and differences of Notch ligands in vascular endothelial cells remain largely unknown; consequently, additional research is needed to elucidate the ligand-specific functions and mechanisms associated with Notch activation in the vascular endothelium. Results from recent studies indicate that Dll1 and Dll4 have distinct roles in the specification and maintenance of arterial cell identity, while Dll4 and Jagged1 have opposing functions in tip- and stalk-cell selection during sprouting angiogenesis. This review will focus on the newly discovered, distinct functions of several Notch ligands in the regulation of blood vessel formation and will provide perspectives for future research in the field.
Proinflammatory Th1 cells can produce large amounts of the immunosuppressive cytokine IL-10, thereby facilitating the self-limitation of inflammatory responses. Recently, we identified the Notch pathway as a main regulator of IL-10 production by Th1 cells. In this study, we show that plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), by means of their unique high-level expression of the Notch ligand Delta-like (Dll)-4, activate the Notch receptor on T cells to induce robust IL-10 production in vitro and in vivo. pDCs display a distinct pattern of Notch ligands compared with conventional dendritic cells, marked by the constitutive expression of Dll-4, the only Notch ligand to induce IL-10 expression in vivo, and Dll-1, while at the same time lacking the expression of Jagged. We provide a new mechanism for IL-10 induction by pDCs underlining the importance of the Dll-4/Notch axis in the regulation of inflammatory T cell responses.
Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) infection is essential to the development of Kaposi sarcoma (KS). Notch signaling is also known to play a pivotal role in KS cell survival and lytic phase entrance of KSHV. In the current study, we sought to determine whether KSHV regulates Notch components. KSHV-infected lymphatic endothelial cells showed induction of receptors Notch3 and Notch4, Notch ligands Dll4 and Jagged1, and activated Notch receptors in contrast to uninfected lymphatic endothelial cells. In addition, KSHV induced the expression of endothelial precursor cell marker (CD133) and mural cell markers (calponin, desmin, and smooth muscle alpha actin), suggesting dedifferentiation and trans-differentiation. Overexpression of latency proteins (LANA, vFLIP) and lytic phase proteins (RTA, vGPCR, viral interleukin-6) further supported the direct regulatory capacity of KSHV viral proteins to induce Notch receptors (Notch2, Notch3), ligands (Dll1, Dll4, Jagged1), downstream targets (Hey, Hes), and endothelial precursor CD133. Targeting Notch pathway with gamma-secretase inhibitor and a decoy protein in the form of soluble Dll4 inhibited growth of KSHV-transformed endothelial cell line. Soluble Dll4 was also highly active in vivo against KS tumor xenograft. It inhibited tumor cell growth, induced tumor cell death, and reduced vessel perfusion. Soluble Dll4 is thus a candidate for clinical investigation.
Distal lung development occurs through coordinated induction of myofibroblasts, epithelial cells, and capillaries. Lunatic Fringe (Lfng) is a beta(1-3) N-acetylglucosamine transferase that modifies Notch receptors to facilitate their activation by Delta-like (Dll1/4) ligands. Lfng is expressed in the distal lung during saccular development, and deletion of this gene impairs myofibroblast differentiation and alveogenesis in this context. A similar defect was observed in Notch2(beta-geo/+)Notch3(beta-geo/beta-geo) compound mutant mice but not in Notch2(beta-geo/+) or Notch3(beta-geo/beta-geo) single mutants. Finally, to directly test for the role of Notch signaling in myofibroblast differentiation in vivo, we used ROSA26-rtTA(/+);tetO-CRE(/+);RBPJkappa(flox/flox) inducible mutant mice to show that disruption of canonical Notch signaling during late embryonic development prevents induction of smooth muscle actin in mesenchymal cells of the distal lung. In sum, these results demonstrate that Lfng functions to enhance Notch signaling in myofibroblast precursor cells and thereby to coordinate differentiation and mobilization of myofibroblasts required for alveolar septation.
BACKGROUND: Notch activation by ligand stimulation regulates the growth of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this have not been fully elucidated.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two AML cell lines, THP-1 and TMD7, and three Notch ligands, Jagged1, Dll1 and Dll4, were used. The effects of the ligands on cell growth, cleavage of Notch1, and the expression of various genes were examined by cell culture, immunoblotting, and quantitative RT-PCR, respectively.RESULTS: Ligand stimulation suppressed the growth of the THP-1 cells but promoted that of the TMD7 cells. Immunoblots showed two cleaved Notch1 bands, which became intense with different peak time from the start of stimulation. Ligand stimulation changed the expression levels of various genes related to cell proliferation. Some genes changed in opposite directions in the two cell lines. The three ligands had similar effects on gene expression.CONCLUSION: The time course for Notch1 cleavage following ligand stimulation and the effects of stimulation on gene expression are shown.
INTRODUCTION: During development and regeneration, odontogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated by a cascade of signals driven by several master regulatory genes.METHODS: In this study, we investigated the differential expression of 84 stem cell-related genes in dental pulp cells (DPCs) and periodontal ligament cells (PDLCs) undergoing odontogenic/osteogenic differentiation.RESULTS: Our results showed that, although there was considerable overlap, certain genes had more differential expression in PDLCs than in DPCs. CCND2, DLL1, and MME were the major upregulated genes in both PDLCs and DPCs, whereas KRT15 was the only gene significantly downregulated in PDLCs and DPCs in both odontogenic and osteogenic differentiation. Interestingly, a large number of regulatory genes in odontogenic and osteogenic differentiation interact or crosstalk via Notch, Wnt, transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta)/bone morphogenic protein (BMP), and cadherin signaling pathways, such as the regulation of APC, DLL1, CCND2, BMP2, and CDH1. Using a rat dental pulp and periodontal defect model, the expression and distribution of both BMP2 and CDH1 have been verified for their spatial localization in dental pulp and periodontal tissue regeneration.CONCLUSIONS: This study has generated an overview of stem cell-related gene expression in DPCs and PDLCs during odontogenic/osteogenic differentiation and revealed that these genes may interact through the Notch, Wnt, TGF-beta/BMP, and cadherin signaling pathways to play a crucial role in determining the fate of dental derived cell and dental tissue regeneration. These findings provided a new insight into the molecular mechanisms of the dental tissue mineralization and regeneration.
The Notch signaling pathway takes part in coordinated regulation of cell growth, survival and differentiation. Previous findings have shown that Notch1 and Delta-like-1 (DLL1) are overexpressed in many glioma cell lines and primary human gliomas. Down-regulation of DLL1 by RNA interference inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in multiple glioma cell lines. Our studies showed that Notch1 expression plasmid induced more expression of DLL1 in the U251MG glioma cell line. Adversely, blocking Notch1 receptors down-regulated the expression of DLL1. Both down-regulating DLL1 and blocking Notch1 receptors induced U251MG cell apoptosis and proliferation inhibition, and combining the two treatments produced stronger effects than the sum of a single treatment. These findings suggest a positive feedback loop between Notch1 and DLL1, which may become an effective combined therapeutic target.
Individuals who live to 85 and beyond without developing major age-related diseases may achieve this, in part, by lacking disease susceptibility factors, or by possessing resistance factors that enhance their ability to avoid disease and prolong lifespan. Healthy aging is a complex phenotype likely to be affected by both genetic and environmental factors. We sequenced 24 candidate healthy aging genes in DNA samples from 47 healthy individuals aged eighty-five years or older (the 'oldest-old'), to characterize genetic variation that is present in this exceptional group. These healthy seniors were never diagnosed with cancer, cardiovascular disease, pulmonary disease, diabetes, or Alzheimer disease. We re-sequenced all exons, intron-exon boundaries and selected conserved non-coding sequences of candidate genes involved in aging-related processes, including dietary restriction (PPARG, PPARGC1A, SIRT1, SIRT3, UCP2, UCP3), metabolism (IGF1R, APOB, SCD), autophagy (BECN1, FRAP1), stem cell activation (NOTCH1, DLL1), tumor suppression (TP53, CDKN2A, ING1), DNA methylation (TRDMT1, DNMT3A, DNMT3B) Progeria syndromes (LMNA, ZMPSTE24, KL) and stress response (CRYAB, HSPB2). We detected 935 variants, including 848 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 87 insertion or deletions; 41% (385) were not recorded in dbSNP. This study is the first to present a comprehensive analysis of genetic variation in aging-related candidate genes in healthy oldest-old. These variants and especially our novel polymorphisms are valuable resources to test for genetic association in models of disease susceptibility or resistance. In addition, we propose an innovative tagSNP selection strategy that combines variants identified through gene re-sequencing- and HapMap-derived SNPs.
There are conflicting reports regarding the effects of Notch activation on nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity. The relationships are cell type-dependent and have not been fully elucidated. We examined the effects of Notch activation induced by a recombinant Notch ligand, Delta-like1 (Dll1), on the NF-kappaB activity in two acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines. We found that Delta1-induced Notch activation activated the NF-kappaB pathway in THP-1 cells. Regarding the possible mechanisms, Dll1 stimulation increased the mRNA and protein expression levels of some components of the NF-kappaB pathway and induced phosphorylation of IKKalpha/beta, IkappaB and RelA proteins after 24 or 48 h of stimulation. Since the phosphorylation required a long time, it did not appear to be caused by physical interactions between Notch and NF-kappaB proteins, but rather by indirect effects. One possible mechanism for the indirect effects was the observed induction of IL-1beta expression by Dll1 stimulation. On the other hand, Notch activation did not affect NF-kappaB activity in TMD7 cells. RelA was phosphorylated without stimulation, indicating that NF-kappaB was constitutively activated in TMD7 cells. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to investigate AML cells and use a recombinant Notch ligand to activate Notch. The present findings lead to better understanding of Notch functions, which have not been fully elucidated.
To investigate the role of Notch signaling pathway in immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), we measured the expression of 11 Notch pathway molecules in ITP patients and evaluated their clinical relevance. Real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction results showed there was aberrant expression of some Notch molecules in ITP. Notch1 and Notch3 expression elevated, while Notch2 decreased statistically in ITP patients. As for Notch ligands, only DLL1 was found downregulated in ITP. The expression of Notch target gene, Hes1, was also upregulated. In accordance with the mRNA level, Notch1 and Hes1 protein expression was also found elevated by Western blot. Immunocytochemistry showed that Notch1 expressed highly in the cytomembrane, cytoplasm, and part of cellular nucleus for ITP while weak in cytomembrane for controls, and Hes1 of ITP was found expressed higher in cellular nucleus than that of controls. Our findings suggest that the aberrant expression profile of Notch pathway may be involved in ITP, and blockage of Notch1 pathway is likely a promising therapeutic concept.
The Notch signaling pathway has a crucial role in the differentiation of hair cells and supporting cells by mediating "lateral inhibition" via the ligands Delta-like1 (Dll1) and Jagged2 (Jag2) and the effectors Hes1 and Hes5 during mammalian inner ear development. Recently, another Notch ligand, Jagged1 (Jag1)-dependent Notch activation, has been revealed to be important for the determination of the prosensory region in the earlier stage before cell differentiation. However, little is known about the effectors of the Notch pathway in this context. P27(Kip1), a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, is also known to demarcate the prosensory region in the cochlear primordium, which consists of the sensory progenitors that have completed their terminal mitoses. Hes1 reportedly promotes precursor cell proliferation through the transcriptional down-regulation of p27(Kip1) in the thymus, liver, and brain. In this study, we observed Hes1 as a mediator between the Notch signaling pathway and the regulation of proliferation of sensory precursor cells by p27(Kip1) in the developing cochlea. We showed that Hes1, but not Hes5, was weakly expressed at the time of onset of p27(Kip1). The expression pattern of Hes1 prior to cell differentiation was similar to that of activated Notch1. P27(Kip1) was up-regulated and BrdU-positive S-phase cells were reduced in the developing cochlear epithelium of Hes1 null mice. These results suggest that the Notch-Hes1 pathway may contribute to the adequate proliferation of sensory precursor cells via the potential transcriptional down-regulation of p27(Kip1) expression and play a pivotal role in the correct prosensory determination.
Notch signaling is required for the development of all T cells and marginal zone (MZ) B cells. Specific roles in T- and B-cell differentiation have been identified for different Notch receptors, the canonical Delta-like (Dll) and Jagged (Jag) Notch ligands, and downstream effectors of Notch signaling. Notch receptors and ligands are post-translationally modified by the addition of glycans to extracellular domain epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats. The O-fucose glycans of Notch cell-autonomously modulate Notch-ligand interactions and the strength of Notch signaling. These glycans are initiated by protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (Pofut1), and elongated by the transfer of N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) to the fucose by beta1,3GlcNAc-transferases termed lunatic, manic, or radical fringe. This review discusses T- and B-cell development from progenitors deficient in O-fucose glycans. The combined data show that Lfng and Mfng regulate T-cell development by enhancing the interactions of Notch1 in T-cell progenitors with Dll4 on thymic epithelial cells. In the spleen, Lfng and Mfng cooperate to modify Notch2 in MZ B progenitors, enhancing their interaction with Dll1 on endothelial cells and regulating MZ B-cell production. Removal of O-fucose affects Notch signaling in myelopoiesis and lymphopoiesis, and the O-fucose glycan in the Notch1 ligand-binding domain is required for optimal T-cell development.
BACKGROUND: The Notch signaling pathway is an evolutionary conserved signal transduction pathway involved in embryonic patterning and regulation of cell fates during development and self-renewal. Recent studies have demonstrated that this pathway is integral to a complex system of interactions, involving as well other signal transduction pathways, and implicated in distinct human diseases. Delta-like 1 (Dll1) is one of the known ligands of the Notch receptors. The role of the Notch ligands is less well understood. Loss-of-function of Dll1 leads to embryonic lethality, but reduction of Delta-like 1 protein levels has not been studied in adult stage.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here we present the haploinsufficient phenotype of Dll1 and a missense mutant Dll1 allele (Dll1(C413Y)). Haploinsufficiency leads to a complex phenotype with several biological processes altered. These alterations reveal the importance of Dll1 mainly in metabolism, energy balance and in immunology. The animals are smaller, lighter, with altered fat to lean ratio and have increased blood pressure and a slight bradycardia. The animals have reduced cholesterol and triglyceride levels in blood. At the immunological level a subtle phenotype is observed due to the effect and fine-tuning of the signaling network at the different levels of differentiation, proliferation and function of lymphocytes. Moreover, the importance of the proteolytic regulation of the Notch signaling network emphasized.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: In conclusion, slight alterations in one player of Notch signaling alter the entire organism, emphasizing the fine-tuning character of this pathway in a high number of processes.
The Notch signaling pathway is one of the most conserved mechanisms to regulate cell fate in many tissues during development and postnatal life. In the immune system, Notch signaling regulates T and B cell development and modulates the differentiation of T and B cells. In this study, we investigated the functional roles of Notch signaling in human B cell differentiation within the germinal center (GC). Notch ligands, Delta-like 1 (Dll1) and Jagged 1 (Jg1), are expressed by follicular dendritic cells (FDC) but not by B cells in the GC, while GC-B cells express the Notch receptors, Notch1 and Notch2. The blockade of Notch signaling pathways using a gamma-secretase inhibitor, DAPT (N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl-l-alanyl)]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester), reduces the survival of GC-B cells in the presence of FDC/HK cells. Jg1 has a dominant effect on GC-B cell survival mediated by Notch signaling. Furthermore, Notch cooperates with another anti-apoptotic factor, BAFF/Blys produced by FDC to support GC-B cell growth. Taken together, our data shows the important role of Notch signaling provided by FDC in the survival of GC-B cells in vitro.
Pancreatic endocrine cells originate from precursors that express the transcription factor Neurogenin3 (Ngn3). Ngn3 expression is repressed by active Notch signaling. Accordingly, mice with Notch signaling pathway mutations display increased Ngn3 expression and endocrine cell lineage allocation. To determine how the Notch ligand Jagged1 (Jag1) functions during pancreas development, we deleted Jag1 in foregut endoderm and examined postnatal and embryonic endocrine cells and precursors. Postnatal Jag1 mutants display increased Ngn3 expression, alpha-cell mass, and endocrine cell percentage, similar to the early embryonic phenotype of Dll1 and Rbpj mutants. However, in sharp contrast to postnatal animals, Jag1-deficient embryos display increased expression of Notch transcriptional targets and decreased Ngn3 expression, resulting in reduced endocrine lineage allocation. Jag1 acts as an inhibitor of Notch signaling during embryonic pancreas development but an activator of Notch signaling postnatally. Expression of the Notch modifier Manic Fringe (Mfng) is limited to endocrine precursors, providing a possible explanation for the inhibition of Notch signaling by Jag1 during mid-gestation embryonic pancreas development.
Author information:(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Graduate School, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Bunkyo ku, Tokyo 113-8519, Japan. tohda.mlab@tmd.ac.jp
Comment on    Blood. 2009 May 28;113(22):5680-8.
The study shows constitutive activation of the Notch pathway in various types of malignancies. However, it remains unclear how the Notch pathway is involved in the pathogenesis of osteosarcoma. We investigated the expression of the Notch pathway molecules in osteosarcoma biopsy specimens and examined the effect of Notch pathway inhibition. Real-time PCR revealed overexpression of Notch2, Jagged1, HEY1, and HEY2. On the other hand, Notch1 and DLL1 were downregulated in biopsy specimens. Notch pathway inhibition using gamma-secretase inhibitor and CBF1 siRNA slowed the growth of osteosarcomas in vitro. In addition, gamma-secretase inhibitor-treated xenograft models exhibited significantly slower osteosarcoma growth. Cell cycle analysis revealed that gamma-secretase inhibitor promoted G1 arrest. Real-time PCR and western blot revealed that gamma-secretase inhibitor reduced the expression of accelerators of the cell cycle, including cyclin D1, cyclin E1, E2, and SKP2. On the other hand, p21(cip1) protein, a cell cycle suppressor, was upregulated by gamma-secretase inhibitor treatment. These findings suggest that inhibition of Notch pathway suppresses osteosarcoma growth by regulation of cell cycle regulator expression and that the inactivation of the Notch pathway may be a useful approach to the treatment of patients with osteosarcoma.
Notch signaling is activated in a subset of non-small cell lung cancer cells because of overexpression of Notch3, but the role of Notch ligands has not been fully defined. On the basis of gene expression profiling of a panel of non-small cell lung cancer cell lines, we found that the predominant Notch ligands were JAG1, JAG2, DLL1, and DLL3. Given that Notch ligands reportedly have overlapping receptor binding specificities, we postulated that they have redundant biological roles. Arguing against this hypothesis, we found that JAG1 and JAG2 were differentially regulated; JAG1 expression was dependent upon epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) activation in HCC827 cells, which require EGFR for survival, whereas JAG2 expression was EGFR-independent in these cells. Furthermore, HCC827 cells underwent apoptosis following depletion of JAG1 but not JAG2, whereas co-culture experiments revealed that depletion of JAG2, but not JAG1, enhanced the ability of HCC827 cells to chemoattract THP-1 human monocytes. JAG2-depleted HCC827 cells expressed high levels of inflammation-related genes, including interleukin 1 (IL1) and a broad range of IL1-regulated cytokines, which was attenuated by inhibition of IL1 receptor (IL1R). Our findings suggest that JAG1 and JAG2 have distinct biological roles including a previously undiscovered role for JAG2 in regulating the expression of cytokines that can promote antitumor immunity.
Signalling mediated by Notch receptors is known to have multiple functions during vertebrate neural development, regulating processes like progenitor differentiation and cell type diversification. Various Notch ligands are expressed in the developing nervous system and their activities might contribute to this multiplicity of functions. Here, we show that two Delta-like genes, Dll1 and Dll4, are sequentially expressed in differentiating neurons of the embryonic mouse retina and spinal cord's pV2 domain, with Dll1 starting to be expressed before Dll4. Analysis of Dll1 mutants reveals this gene is necessary and sufficient to maintain a pool of progenitors in the embryonic neuroepithelium. Accordingly, in the spinal cord domains where Dll1 is the only expressed Notch ligand, its inactivation leads to an increased rate of neurogenesis and premature differentiation of neural progenitors. In contrast, in the pV2 domain and retina where Dll1 is co-expressed with Dll4, progenitors are not exhausted and cell diversity is maintained. Together, our results support a model where Dll1 and Dll4 are part of a unique genetic circuitry that regulates subsequent steps of neurogenesis in the retina and pV2 domain: while Dll1 serves to prevent the untimely differentiation of neural progenitors, Dll4 might function to generate diversity within the population of differentiating neurons.
We describe a method to produce antibody-captured ligand gradients over biologically relevant distances (hundreds of micrometers) whereby the ligand density and gradient shape may be tailored. Separation of the ligand from the solid-phase surface ensures that the biological activity of the ligand remains unaffected by immobilization. Our method involves the use of a plasma-masking method to generate a surface chemical gradient on a glass substrate to which the 9E10 antibody is covalently coupled. This antibody captures myc-tagged biomolecules. In our example, the antibody is then used to immobilize a gradient of the intercellular signaling molecule delta-like-1 (Dll1). To visualize the gradient of Dll1, we have used the multistep approach of binding with rabbit anti-Dll1 primary antibody and then adding colloidal-gold-conjugated secondary antibody.
To study paraxial mesoderm formation in the mouse, transgenic lines that can be used to either selectively delete or express genes of interest in the paraxial mesoderm are required. We have generated a transgenic mouse line that expresses Cre recombinase in the paraxial mesoderm (PAM) beginning at e7.5. A lacZ Cre recombinase reporter line showed that in addition to PAM and its derivatives, lateral plate and intermediate mesoderm derivatives were also exposed to Cre activity, while the node, notochord, and cardiac mesoderm were not. We further demonstrate that 70-75% of the fibroblasts generated from Dll1-msd Cre, ROSA26-rtTA embryos possess Cre recombinase activity. These mice can therefore be used in combination with tet-responsive transgenic lines to generate mesoderm-derived embryonic fibroblasts that inducibly express a gene of interest.
Delta-like 3 (Dll3) is a divergent ligand and modulator of the Notch signaling pathway only identified so far in mammals. Null mutations of Dll3 disrupt cycling expression of Notch targets Hes1, Hes5, and Lfng, but not of Hes7. Compared with Dll1 or Notch1, the effects of Dll3 mutations are less severe for gene expression in the presomitic mesoderm, yet severe segmentation phenotypes and vertebral defects result in both human and mouse. Reasoning that Dll3 specifically disrupts key regulators of somite cycling, we carried out functional analysis to identify targets accounting for the segmental phenotype. Using microdissected embryonic tissue from somitic and presomitic mesodermal tissue, we identified new genes enriched in these tissues, including Limch1, Rhpn2, and A130022J15Rik. Surprisingly, we only identified a small number of genes disrupted by the Dll3 mutation. These include Uncx, a somite gene required for rib and vertebral patterning, and Nrarp, a regulator of Notch/Wnt signaling in zebrafish and a cycling gene in mouse. To determine the effects of Dll3 mutation on Nrarp, we characterized the cycling expression of this gene from early (8.5 dpc) to late (10.5 dpc) somitogenesis. Nrarp displays a distinct pattern of cycling phases when compared to Lfng and Axin2 (a Wnt pathway gene) at 9.5 dpc but appears to be in phase with Lfng by 10.5 dpc. Nrarp cycling appears to require Dll3 but not Lfng modulation. In Dll3 null embryos, Nrarp displayed static patterns. However, in Lfng null embryos, Nrarp appeared static at 8.5 dpc but resumed cycling expression by 9.5 and dynamic expression at 10.5 dpc stages. By contrast, in Wnt3a null embryos, Nrarp expression was completely absent in the presomitic mesoderm. Towards identifying the role of Dll3 in regulating somitogenesis, Nrarp emerges as a potentially important regulator that requires Dll3 but not Lfng for normal function.
The development and maintenance of thymic microenvironments depends on sustained crosstalk signals derived from developing thymocytes. However, the molecular basis for the initial phase in the lymphoid dependent development of thymic epithelial cells (TECs) remains unclear. Here we show that similarly to regular thymocytes, developing B cells enforced to express the Notch ligand Delta-like-1 (DLL1) efficiently induce the non-polarized, three-dimensional (3D) meshwork architecture of cortical TECs in fetal thymic organ culture. Moreover, the DLL1-overexpressing B cells induce well-developed distinct medullae. Such medullae also arose in lobes reconstituted with Rag2(-/-) thymocytes overexpressing DLL1. Our present findings thus strongly suggest that Notch signaling from thymocytes to TECs induces TEC development at an early phase of thymic organogenesis. The present approach using non-T lineage cells for the in vitro construction of thymic environments may also provide a novel tool for thymus regeneration and T cell production in immunocompromised individuals.
The importance of Notch signaling to maintain CD8- dendritic cells (DCs) in the spleen has recently been revealed. However, the ligand responsible for this Notch signaling has not been determined yet. In this study, we demonstrated that blocking of Delta-like (Dll) 1 alone had no significant effect on the maintenance of CD8- DCs while marginal zone (MZ) B cells were significantly reduced in the spleen of mice. On the other hand, blocking of Dll1, Dll4, Jagged1 and Jagged2 significantly decreased CD8- DCs. All these Notch ligands are expressed predominantly in the red pulp of the spleen where CD8- DCs reside. These results indicate a differential regulation of CD8- DCs and MZ B cells by Notch ligands in the spleen.
Comment in    Blood. 2009 May 28;113(22):5375-6.
BACKGROUND: Notch signaling is involved in cell fate determination along with the development of the immune system. However, very little is known about the role for Notch signaling in mast cells.OBJECTIVE: We investigated the role of Notch signaling in mast cell functions.METHODS: After mouse bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMCs) or peritoneal mast cells (PMCs) were cocultured with mouse Notch ligand-expressing chinese hamster ovary cells for 5 days, we examined the mast cell surface expressions of MHC-II molecules and OX40 ligand (OX40L), Fc epsilon RI-mediated cytokine production, and the effects of the mast cells on proliferation and differentiation of naive CD4(+) T cells in vitro.RESULTS: We showed that BMMCs and PMCs constitutively expressed Notch1 and Notch2 proteins on the cell surface. We also found that Delta-like 1 (Dll1)/Notch signaling induced the expression of MHC-II and upregulated the expression level of OX40L on the surface of the mast cells. Dll1/Notch signaling augmented Fc epsilon RI-mediated IL-4, IL-6, IL-13, and TNF production by BMMCs. Dll1-stimulated MHC-II(+)OX40L(high) BMMCs promoted proliferation of naive CD4(+) T cells and their differentiation into T(H)2 cells producing IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13.CONCLUSION: Dll1/Notch signaling confers the functions as an antigen-presenting cell on mast cells, which preferentially induce the differentiation of T(H)2.
Neural stem cells (NSC) with self-renewal and multipotent properties could provide an ideal cell source for transplantation to treat spinal cord injury, stroke, and neurodegenerative diseases. However, the majority of transplanted NSC and neural progenitor cells (NPC) differentiate into astrocytes in vivo under pathological environments in the central nervous system, which potentially cause reactive gliosis. Because the serum is a potent inducer of astrocyte differentiation of rodent NPC in culture, we studied the effect of the serum on gene expression profile of cultured human NPC to identify the gene signature of astrocyte differentiation of human NPC. Human NPC spheres maintained in the serum-free culture medium were exposed to 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) for 72 h, and processed for analyzing on a Whole Human Genome Microarray of 41,000 genes, and the microarray data were validated by real-time RT-PCR. The serum elevated the levels of expression of 45 genes, including ID1, ID2, ID3, CTGF, TGFA, METRN, GFAP, CRYAB and CSPG3, whereas it reduced the expression of 23 genes, such as DLL1, DLL3, PDGFRA, SOX4, CSPG4, GAS1 and HES5. Thus, the serum-induced astrocyte differentiation of human NPC is characterized by a counteraction of ID family genes on Delta family genes. Coimmunoprecipitation analysis identified ID1 as a direct binding partner of a proneural basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor MASH1. Luciferase assay indicated that activation of the DLL1 promoter by MASH1 was counteracted by ID1. Bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) elevated the levels of ID1 and GFAP expression in NPC under the serum-free culture conditions. Because the serum contains BMP4, these results suggest that the serum factor(s), most probably BMP4, induces astrocyte differentiation by upregulating the expression of ID family genes that repress the proneural bHLH protein-mediated Delta expression in human NPC.
MCAT elements and its cognate binding partners, the transcription enhancer factors (TEFs) play important roles in the regulation of expression of several muscle-specific genes. The biological effects of TEFs strongly depend on different co-factors, which might act as co-activators or anti-repressors to enable transcriptional activation of target genes by TEFs. Previously, we have cloned and characterized VITO-1, which acts as a skeletal muscle-specific transcriptional co-activator of TEFs. Here we describe the cloning and expression profile of a related gene, VITO-2 (also termed Vgl-3), which shares a high homology with VITO-1 in the SID domain responsible for interaction with TEFs. During early embryonic and fetal development VITO-2 is mainly expressed in the myogenic lineage with an onset of expression in the myotomes of somites VI at E9.5 slightly later than VITO-1. At later developmental stages VITO-2 is predominantly found in the nervous system. In adult mice VITO-2 was detected in different tissues, including skeletal muscle, heart, kidney, liver and brain, where it was found in cortical and cerebellar neurons as well as in Purkinje cells. The expression of VITO-2 in the mesoderm was repressed by the notch/delta pathway and activated by Myf-5 since Dll-1 mutant showed an aberrant expression of VITO-2 but not VITO-1 in the tail bud and in the caudal neural tube at E10.5 while Myf-5 mutant mice lack expression of VITO-1 and VITO-2 in somites until E10.5.
RATIONALE: The airway epithelium of smokers is subject to a variety of mechanisms of injury with consequent modulation of epithelial regeneration and disordered differentiation. Several signaling pathways, including the Notch pathway, control epithelial differentiation in lung morphogenesis, but little is known about the role of these pathways in adults.OBJECTIVES: We tested the hypotheses that Notch-related genes are expressed in the normal nonsmoker small airway epithelium of human adults, and that Notch-related gene expression is down-regulated in healthy smokers and smokers with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).METHODS: We used microarray technology to evaluate the expression of 55 Notch-related genes in the small airway epithelium of nonsmokers. We used TaqMan quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to confirm the expression of key genes and we used immunohistochemistry to assess the expression of Notch-related proteins in the airway epithelium. Changes in expression of Notch genes in healthy smokers and smokers with COPD compared with nonsmokers were evaluated by PCR.MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Microarray analysis demonstrated that 45 of 55 Notch-related genes are expressed in the small airway epithelium of adults. TaqMan PCR confirmed the expression of key genes with highest expression of the ligand DLL1, the receptor NOTCH2, and the downstream effector HES1. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated the expression of Jag1, Notch2, Hes1, and Hes5 in airway epithelium. Several Notch ligands, receptors, and downstream effector genes were down-regulated in smokers, with more genes down-regulated in smokers with COPD than in healthy smokers.CONCLUSIONS: These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the Notch pathway likely plays a role in the human adult airway epithelium, with down-regulation of Notch pathway gene expression in association with smoking and COPD.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have enormous potential for applications in basic biology and regenerative medicine. However, harnessing the potential of hESCs toward generating homogeneous populations of specialized cells remains challenging. Here we describe a novel technology for the genetic identification of defined hESC-derived neural cell types using bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenesis. We generated hESC lines stably expressing Hes5::GFP, Dll1::GFP, and HB9::GFP BACs that yield green fluorescent protein (GFP)(+) neural stem cells, neuroblasts, and motor neurons, respectively. Faithful reporter expression was confirmed by cell fate analysis and appropriate transgene regulation. Prospective isolation of HB9::GFP(+) cells yielded purified human motor neurons with proper marker expression and electrophysiological activity. Global mRNA and microRNA analyses of Hes5::GFP(+) and HB9::GFP(+) populations revealed highly specific expression signatures, suggesting that BAC transgenesis will be a powerful tool for establishing expression libraries that define the human neural lineage and for accessing defined cell types in applications of human disease.
BACKGROUND: To investigate the involvement of Notch ligands in the development of experimental allergic conjunctivitis (EC) in mice.METHODS: To induce EC, wild-type (WT) or IFN-gamma-deficient (GKO) BALB/c mice were immunized with ragweed (RW) in alum followed by RW challenge in eye drops. Twenty-four hours after RW challenge, the conjunctivas, spleens and blood were harvested to evaluate conjunctival eosinophil infiltration, RW-specific cytokine production and serum Ig levels, respectively. Abs against Notch ligands (anti-Jagged1, anti-Jagged2, anti-Delta-like (Dll)1 and anti-Dll4) were injected intraperitoneally into EC-developing mice during the induction or effector phase. As a control, normal hamster IgG (nhIgG) was injected.RESULTS: Treatment with anti-Dll4 Ab but not the other Abs during the induction phase significantly augmented the severity of EC, as measured by the conjunctival eosinophil infiltration. Anti-Dll4 Ab treatment also significantly upregulated RW-recall IL-4 production and suppressed serum IgE and IgG1 levels. However, anti-Dll4 Ab treatment during the induction phase did not significantly affect the severity of EC in GKO mice. None of the Abs significantly affected the severity of EC, splenocyte cytokine production, or serum Ig levels when administered during the effector phase.CONCLUSIONS: These observations suggest that Dll4, a Notch ligand, plays a role in suppressing the development of EC, possibly by providing a negative signal for Th2 development during the induction phase. In addition, IFN-gamma may participate in the augmentation of EC by anti-Dll4 Ab treatment.
During the neurogenic phase of mammalian brain development, only a subpopulation of neural precursor cells (NPCs) differentiates into neurons. The mechanisms underlying this selection remain unclear. Here we provide evidence that the Notch-Delta pathway plays an important role in this selection in the developing mouse telencephalon. We found that the expression patterns of the Notch ligand delta-like 1 (Dll1) and of the active form of Notch1 were mutually exclusive and segregated into distinct NPC subpopulations in the ventricular zone of the telencephalon. When Dll1 was overexpressed in a small, but not a large, proportion of NPCs, these cells underwent neuronal differentiation in vitro and in vivo. This Dll1-induced neuronal differentiation did not occur when cells were plated at lower densities in an in vitro culture. Importantly, conditional deletion of the Dll1 gene in a small proportion of NPCs reduced neurogenesis in vivo, whereas deletion in a large proportion promoted premature neurogenesis. These results support the notion that different levels of Dll1 expression determine the fate of NPCs through cell-cell interactions, most likely through the Notch-Delta lateral inhibitory signaling pathway, thus contributing to the selection of differentiating cells.
Myogenic cells have the ability to adopt two divergent fates upon exit from the cell cycle: differentiation or self-renewal. The Notch signaling pathway is a well-known negative regulator of myogenic differentiation. Using mouse primary myoblasts cultured in vitro or C2C12 myogenic cells, we found that Notch activity is essential for maintaining the expression of Pax7, a transcription factor associated with the self-renewal lineage, in quiescent undifferentiated myoblasts after they exit the cell cycle. Stimulation of the Notch pathway by expression of a constitutively active Notch-1, or co-culture of myogenic cells with CHO cells transfected with Delta like-1 (DLL1), increases the level of Pax7. DLL1, a ligand for Notch receptor, is shed by ADAM metalloproteases in a pool of Pax7+ C2C12 reserve cells, but it remains intact in differentiated myotubes. DLL1 shedding changes the receptor/ligand ratio and modulates the level of Notch signaling. Inhibition of DLL1 cleavage by a soluble, dominant-negative mutant form of ADAM12 leads to elevation of Notch signaling, inhibition of differentiation, and expansion of the pool of self-renewing Pax7+/MyoD- cells. These results suggest that ADAM-mediated shedding of DLL1 in a subset of cells during myogenic differentiation in vitro contributes to downregulation of Notch signaling in neighboring cells and facilitates their progression into differentiation. We propose that the proteolytic processing of DLL1 helps achieve an asymmetry in Notch signaling in initially equivalent myogenic cells and helps sustain the balance between differentiation and self-renewal.
In the developing mammalian nervous system, neural progenitor cells first express the Notch effector Hes1 at variable levels and then proneural genes and Notch ligands in salt-and-pepper patterns. Recent real-time imaging analysis indicates that Hes1 expression in these cells oscillates with a period of about 2-3 h. Furthermore, the proneural gene Neurogenin-2 (Ngn2) and the Notch ligand gene Deltalike-1 (Dll1) are expressed cyclically in neural progenitor cells under the control of Hes1 oscillation but are expressed continuously in postmitotic neurons, which lose Hes1 expression. Hes1-driven Ngn2 and Dll1 oscillations seem to be advantageous for maintenance of a group of cells in an undifferentiated state by mutual activation of Notch signaling. This dynamic mode of gene expression would require a revision of the traditional view of how Notch-mediated lateral inhibition operates in the developing mammalian nervous system.
Notch signaling regulates lineage decisions at multiple stages of lymphocyte development, and Notch activation requires the endocytosis of Notch ligands in the signal-sending cells. Four E3 ubiquitin ligases, Mind bomb (Mib) 1, Mib2, Neuralized (Neur) 1, and Neur2, regulate the Notch ligands to activate Notch signaling, but their roles in lymphocyte development have not been defined. We show that Mib1 regulates T and marginal zone B (MZB) cell development in the lymphopoietic niches. Inactivation of the Mib1 gene, but not the other E3 ligases, Mib2, Neur1, and Neur2, abrogated T and MZB cell development. Reciprocal bone marrow (BM) transplantation experiments revealed that Mib1 in the thymic and splenic niches is essential for T and MZB cell development. Interestingly, when BM cells from transgenic Notch reporter mice were transplanted into Mib1-null mice, the Notch signaling was abolished in the double-negative thymocytes. In addition, the endocytosis of Dll1 was impaired in the Mib1-null microenvironment. Moreover, the block in T cell development and the failure of Dll1 endocytosis were also observed in coculture system by Mib1 knockdown. Our study reveals that Mib1 is the essential E3 ligase in T and MZB cell development, through the regulation of Notch ligands in the thymic and splenic microenvironments.
The thymic microenvironment is required for T cell development in vivo. However, in vitro studies have shown that when hematopoietic progenitors acquire Notch signaling via Delta-like (Dll)1 or Dll4, they differentiate into the T cell lineage in the absence of a thymic microenvironment. It is not clear, however, whether the thymus supports T cell development specifically by providing Notch signaling. To address this issue, we generated mice with a loxP-flanked allele of Dll4 and induced gene deletion specifically in thymic epithelial cells (TECs). In the thymus of mutant mice, the expression of Dll4 was abrogated on the epithelium, and the proportion of hematopoietic cells bearing the intracellular fragment of Notch1 (ICN1) was markedly decreased. Corresponding to this, CD4 CD8 double-positive or single-positive T cells were not detected in the thymus. Further analysis showed that the double-negative cell fraction was lacking T cell progenitors. The enforced expression of ICN1 in hematopoietic progenitors restored thymic T cell differentiation, even when the TECs were deficient in Dll4. These results indicate that the thymus-specific environment for determining T cell fate indispensably requires Dll4 expression to induce Notch signaling in the thymic immigrant cells.
The Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) is critical for the generation of marginal zone (MZ) B cells in the spleen. However, the precise mechanism underlying the differentiation of MZB cells is unclear. To determine whether hematopoietic cells or non-hematopoietic cells provides the Dll1-mediated signals to primitive hematopoietic cells, we transplanted lineage(-)c-kit(+)Sca-1(+) (KSL) bone marrow cells derived from wild-type (Dll1(+/+)) GFP-transgenic mice into lethally irradiated Dll1 conditional knockout (cKO) mice. After transplantation, we examined the kinetics of hematopoietic reconstitution and found that although the frequency of stem/progenitor subsets and of more mature lymphoid, myeloid, and erythroid lineages were normal, the donor-derived hematopoietic cells failed to differentiate into MZB cells. We further demonstrated that while the splenic stromal cells of wild-type mice expressed Dll1 molecule, the splenic stromal cells of recipient Dll1 cKO mice deleted the expression of Dll1. These results suggesting that the expression of Dll1 in splenic non-hematopoietic stromal cells, but not hematopoietic cells, is essential for the development of MZB cells.
Genetic studies have shown that ubiquitination and endocytosis of the Drosophila ligand Delta in signal-sending cells are required for activation of Notch signaling, but how these events promote Notch activation remains poorly understood. Here, we show that an ubiquitination-defective mutant of the murine Delta-homologue Dll1 is endocytosed but, in contrast to the wild-type Dll1, is unable to subsequently recycle back to the cell surface or to bind Notch1 efficiently. These results demonstrate that ubiquitination, although not required for endocytosis, is essential for Dll1 recycling and that recycling is required to acquire affinity for the receptor. On the other hand, a chimeric molecule encompassing the extracellular domain of Dll1 and the transmembrane/intracellular domain of Dll3, which contains no lysine, is endocytosed, recycled, and interacts with Notch1 but is unable to induce transendocytosis of the extracellular region of Notch1 or to signal. These observations suggest that the chimera uses an ubiquitination-independent signal to recycle, allowing it to acquire affinity for Notch1. Our results support the idea that ligand recycling determines its competence to bind efficiently to the receptor but that this is insufficient to allow it to perform transendocytosis, an event required for activation of Notch signaling. Finally, the present study indicates that Dll1 partially localizes to lipid microdomains, whereas both ubiquitination-defective Dll1 and the Dll1-3 chimera are excluded from these compartments, suggesting that these microdomains provide the environment necessary for Dll1 to activate Notch signaling.
Recent reports suggested that Delta1, 4 and Jagged1, 2 possessed the ability to instruct CD4(+) T cell into selection of Th1 or Th2 fates, respectively, although the underlying mechanism endowing the cleaved Notch receptor with memory of ligand involved in its activation remains elusive. To examine this, we prepared artificial antigen-presenting cells expressing either DLL1 or Jag1. Although both ligands were efficient in inducing Notch2 cleavage and activation in CD4(+) T or reporter cells, the presence of Lunatic Fringe in CD4(+) T cells inhibited Jag1 activation of Notch1 receptor. Neither ligand could induce Th1 or Th2 fate choice independently of cytokines or redirect cytokine-driven Th1 or Th2 development. Instead, we find that Notch ligands only augment cytokine production during T cell differentiation in the presence of polarizing IL-12 and IL-4. Moreover, the differentiation choices of naïve CD4(+) T cells lacking gamma-secretase, RBP-J, or both in response to polarizing cytokines revealed that neither presenilin proteins nor RBP-J were required for cytokine-induced Th1/Th2 fate selection. However, presenilins facilitate cellular proliferation and cytokine secretion in an RBP-J (and thus, Notch) independent manner. The controversies surrounding the role of Notch and presenilins in Th1/Th2 polarization may reflect their role as genetic modifiers of T-helper cells differentiation.
Morphologically and functionally distinct subpopulations of human memory B (B(Mem)) cells are identifiable by either their expression of CD27 or Fc receptor-like 4 (FCRL4), an immunoglobulin domain containing a receptor with strong inhibitory potential. We have conducted comparative transcriptome and proteome analyses of FCRL4(+) and FCRL4(-) B(Mem) cells and found that these two subsets have very distinctive expression profiles for genes encoding transcription factors, cell-surface proteins, intracellular signaling molecules, and modifiers of the cell-cycle status. Among the differentially expressed transcription factors, runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) transcript levels were up-regulated in FCRL4(-) cells, whereas RUNX2 transcripts were preferentially detected in FCRL4(+) cells. In vitro evidence for FCRL4 promoter responsiveness and in vivo promoter occupancy suggested that RUNX transcription factors are involved in the generation of these B(Mem) cell subpopulations. A distinctive signature profile was defined for the FCRL4(+) B(Mem) cells by their expression of CD11c, receptor activator for nuclear factor kappaB ligand, and FAS cell-surface proteins, in combination with increased levels of SOX5, RUNX2, DLL1, and AICDA expression. We conclude that this recently identified subpopulation of B(Mem) cells, which normally resides in epithelial tissue-based niches, may serve a unique role in mucosal defense and, conversely, as a target for neoplastic transformation events.
BACKGROUND: Despite accumulating evidence that proves the pivotal role of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) in ischemic neovascularization, the key signaling cascade that regulates functional EPC kinetics remains unclear.METHODS AND RESULTS: In this report, we show that inactivation of specific Jagged-1 (Jag-1)-mediated Notch signals leads to inhibition of postnatal vasculogenesis in hindlimb ischemia via impairment of proliferation, survival, differentiation, and mobilization of bone marrow-derived EPCs. Bone marrow-derived EPCs obtained from Jag-1-/- mice, but not Delta-like (Dll)-1-/- mice, demonstrated less therapeutic potential for ischemic neovascularization than EPCs from the wild type. In contrast, a gain-of-function study using 3T3 stromal cells overexpressing Notch ligand revealed that Jag-1-mediated Notch signals promoted EPC commitment, which resulted in enhanced neovascularization. The impaired neovascularization in Jag-1-/- mice was profoundly rescued by transplantation of Jag-1-stimulated EPCs.CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that specific Jag-1-derived Notch signals from the bone marrow microenvironment are critical for EPC-mediated vasculogenesis, thus providing an important clue for modulation of strategies for therapeutic neovascularization.
BACKGROUND: The determination of left/right body axis during early embryogenesis sets up a developmental cascade that coordinates the development of the viscera and is essential to the correct placement and alignment of organ systems and vasculature. Defective left-right patterning can lead to congenital cardiac malformations, vascular anomalies and other serious health problems. Here we describe a novel role for the T-box transcription factor gene Tbx6 in left/right body axis determination in the mouse.RESULTS: Embryos lacking Tbx6 show randomized embryo turning and heart looping. Our results point to multiple mechanisms for this effect. First, Dll1, a direct target of Tbx6, is down regulated around the node in Tbx6 mutants and there is a subsequent decrease in nodal signaling, which is required for laterality determination. Secondly, in spite of a lack of expression of Tbx6 in the node, we document a profound effect of the Tbx6 mutation on the morphology and motility of nodal cilia. This results in the loss of asymmetric calcium signaling at the periphery of the node, suggesting that unidirectional nodal flow is disrupted. To carry out these studies, we devised a novel method for direct labeling and live imaging cilia in vivo using a genetically-encoded fluorescent protein fusion that labels tubulin, combined with laser point scanning confocal microscopy for direct visualization of cilia movement.CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the transcription factor gene Tbx6 is essential for correct left/right axis determination in the mouse and acts through effects on notch signaling around the node as well as through an effect on the morphology and motility of the nodal cilia.
Protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (Pofut1), which catalyzes the addition of O-linked fucose to the EGF domains of the Notch receptor, is indispensable for Notch signaling activation. However, the mechanism of action of Pofut1 in mice is still unclear. Mouse embryos lacking Pofut1 shows defects in valve formation and trabeculation in the cardiovascular system, which are almost identical abnormalities to those of the RBP-Jk mutants. In our current study, we have examined the epistatic relationship between the functions of Pofut1 and activated-Notch1 (NICD1) by taking advantage of the fact that forced expression of NICD1 results in myocardial defects. These defects were still evident in NICD1-expressing embryos irrespective of the presence or absence of Pofut1, which indicates that Pofut1 is required for Notch signaling upstream of NICD1. We further found that Pofut1-null cells do not possess normally localized Notch1 receptors, which may results in their lack of interaction with the Dll1 ligand in the presomitic mesoderm where Notch signaling plays a pivotal role. We propose that altered trafficking pathways may account for the abnormal accumulation of the Notch1 receptor in the endoplasmic reticulum in Pofut1-null mouse embryos.
Intraembryonic hematopoiesis occurs at two different sites, the floor of the aorta and subaortic patches (SAPs) of the para-aortic splanchnopleura (P-Sp)/aorta-gonad-mesonephros (AGM) region. Notch1 and RBP-jkappa are critical for the specification of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in Notch signal-receiving cells. However, the mechanism by which Notch signaling is triggered from the Notch signal-sending cells to support embryonic hematopoiesis remains to be determined. We previously reported that Mind bomb-1 (Mib1) regulates Notch ligands in the Notch signal-sending cells (B. K. Koo, M. J. Yoon, K. J. Yoon, S. K. Im, Y. Y. Kim, C. H. Kim, P. G. Suh, Y. N. Jan, and Y. Y. Kong, PLoS ONE 2:e1221, 2007). Here, we show that intraembryonic hematopoietic progenitors were absent in the P-Sp of Mib1(-/-) embryos, whereas they were partly preserved in the Tie2-cre; Mib1(f)(/f) P-Sps, suggesting that Mib1 plays a role in the endothelium and the SAPs. Interestingly, dll1 and dll4/Jag1 are expressed in the SAPs and the endothelium of the AGM, respectively, where mib1 is detected. Indeed, Notch signaling was activated in the nascent HSCs at both sites. In the P-Sp explant culture, the overexpression of Dll1 in OP9 stromal cells rescued the failed production of hematopoietic progenitors in the Mib1(-/-) P-Sp, while its activity was abolished by Mib1 knockdown. These results suggest that Mib1 is important for intraembryonic hematopoiesis not only in the aortic endothelium but also in the SAPs.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatrics Research, Children's Cancer Hospital, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.
Notch signaling in the retina maintains a pool of progenitor cells throughout retinogenesis. However, two Notch-ligands from the Delta-like gene family, Dll1 and Dll4, are present in the developing retina. To understand their relationship, we characterized Dll1 and Dll4 expression with respect to proliferating progenitor cells and newborn neurons in the chick retina. Dll4 matched the pattern of neural differentiation. By contrast, Dll1 was primarily expressed in progenitor cells. We compared Dll1 and Dll4 kinetic profiles with that of the transiently up-regulated cascade of proneural basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) genes after synchronized progenitor cell differentiation, which suggested a potential role for Ascl1 in the regulation of Delta-like genes. Gain-of-function assays demonstrate that Ascl1 does influence Delta-like gene expression and Notch signaling activity. These data suggest that multiple sources of Notch signaling from newborn neurons and progenitors themselves coordinate retinal histogenesis.
Expression of the Notch effector gene Hes1 is required for maintenance of neural progenitors in the embryonic brain, but persistent and high levels of Hes1 expression inhibit proliferation and differentiation of these cells. Here, by using a real-time imaging method, we found that Hes1 expression dynamically oscillates in neural progenitors. Furthermore, sustained overexpression of Hes1 downregulates expression of proneural genes, Notch ligands, and cell cycle regulators, suggesting that their proper expression depends on Hes1 oscillation. Surprisingly, the proneural gene Neurogenin2 (Ngn2) and the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) are also expressed in an oscillatory manner by neural progenitors, and inhibition of Notch signaling, a condition known to induce neuronal differentiation, leads to downregulation of Hes1 and sustained upregulation of Ngn2 and Dll1. These results suggest that Hes1 oscillation regulates Ngn2 and Dll1 oscillations, which in turn lead to maintenance of neural progenitors by mutual activation of Notch signaling.
Notch2 and Delta-like 1 (Dll1) have been implicated in the development of marginal zone B (MZB) cells. In the present study, we characterized the expression and function of mouse Notch receptors and ligands in the spleen by using newly generated mAbs. Although Notch2 was expressed on both B and T cells in the spleen, the highest expression was observed on precursors of marginal zone B and MZB cells. Dll1 was expressed on macrophage and erythroblasts in the red pulp, but not on B cells or marginal zone macrophage. Administration of a blocking mAb against Dll1 not only blocked the development of MZB cells in juvenile mice but also gradually depleted the pre-established MZB cells in adult mice, indicating a critical role for Dll1 in the maintenance of MZB cells in the spleen of normal mice. Interestingly, Dll1 was not necessary for the maintenance of MZB cells in lupus-prone (NZB x NZW) F1 mice particularly after the onset of the disease, suggesting that the Dll1 independence may be a feature of dysregulated MZB cells producing auto-antibodies.
Comment in    Cell Stem Cell. 2008 Mar 6;2(3):195-6.
We hypothesized that PDGF-B/PDGFR-beta-signaling is important in the cardiac contribution of epicardium-derived cells and cardiac neural crest, cell lineages crucial for heart development. We analyzed hearts of different embryonic stages of both Pdgf-b-/- and Pdgfr-beta-/- mouse embryos for structural aberrations with an established causal relation to defective contribution of these cell lineages. Immunohistochemical staining for alphaSMA, periostin, ephrinB2, EphB4, VEGFR-2, Dll1, and NCAM was performed on wild-type and knockout embryos. We observed that knockout embryos showed perimembranous and muscular ventricular septal defects, maldevelopment of the atrioventricular cushions and valves, impaired coronary arteriogenesis, and hypoplasia of the myocardium and cardiac nerves. The abnormalities correspond with models in which epicardial development is impaired and with neuronal neural crest-related innervation deficits. This implies a role for PDGF-B/PDGFR-beta-signaling specifically in the contribution of these cell lineages to cardiac development.
The early embryonic lethality of mutant mice bearing germ-line deletions of both presenilin genes precluded the study of their functions in neural development. We therefore employed the Cre-loxP technology to generate presenilin conditional double knockout (PS cDKO) mice, in which expression of both presenilins is inactivated in neural progenitor cells (NPC) or neural stem cells and their derivative neurons and glia beginning at embryonic day 11 (E11). In PS cDKO mice, dividing NPCs labeled by BrdU are decreased in number beginning at E13.5. By E15.5, fewer than 20% of NPCs remain in PS cDKO mice. The depletion of NPCs is accompanied by severe morphological defects and hemorrhages in the PS cDKO embryonic brain. Interkinetic nuclear migration of NPCs is also disrupted in PS cDKO embryos, as evidenced by displacement of S-phase and M-phase nuclei in the ventricular zone of the telencephalon. Furthermore, the depletion of neural progenitor cells in PS cDKO embryos is due to NPCs exiting cell cycle and differentiating into neurons rather than reentering cell cycle between E13.5 and E14.5 following PS inactivation in most NPCs. The length of cell cycle, however, is unchanged in PS cDKO embryos. Expression of Notch target genes, Hes1 and Hes5, is significantly decreased in PS cDKO brains, whereas Dll1 expression is up-regulated, indicating that Notch signaling is effectively blocked by PS inactivation. These findings demonstrate that presenilins are essential for neural progenitor cells to re-enter cell cycle and thus ensure proper expansion of neural progenitor pool during embryonic neural development.
Somitogenesis is thought to be controlled by a segmentation clock, which consists of molecular oscillators in the Wnt3a, Fgf8 and Notch pathways. Using conditional alleles of Ctnnb1 (beta-catenin), we show that the canonical Wnt3a/beta-catenin pathway is necessary for molecular oscillations in all three signaling pathways but does not function as an integral component of the oscillator. Small, irregular somites persist in abnormally posterior locations in the absence of beta-catenin and cycling clock gene expression. Conversely, Notch pathway genes continue to oscillate in the presence of stabilized beta-catenin but boundary formation is delayed and anteriorized. Together, these results suggest that the Wnt3a/beta-catenin pathway is permissive but not instructive for oscillating clock genes and that it controls the anterior-posterior positioning of boundary formation in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM). The Wnt3a/beta-catenin pathway does so by regulating the activation of the segment boundary determination genes Mesp2 and Ripply2 in the PSM through the activation of the Notch ligand Dll1 and the mesodermal transcription factors T and Tbx6. Spatial restriction of Ripply2 to the anterior PSM is ensured by the Wnt3a/beta-catenin-mediated repression of Ripply2 in posterior PSM. Thus, Wnt3a regulates somitogenesis by activating a network of interacting target genes that promote mesodermal fates, activate the segmentation clock, and position boundary determination genes in the anterior PSM.
The Notch ligand Delta1 (Dll1) is expressed in human interfollicular epidermis (IFE) and regulates differentiation and adhesion of cultured human keratinocytes. However, the consequences of deleting Dll1 in mouse epidermis have not been examined. Here, we report that in embryonic mouse skin Dll1 is expressed by patches of keratinocytes in the basal layer of the IFE and in the dermal papilla and hair bulb. In a Dll1 hypomorph mutant that survives until birth, hair follicles formed normally but proliferation and thickness of the IFE were increased. Deletion of Dll1 using Cre recombinase expressed under the control of the keratin-5 (K5) promoter resulted in a delay in the first postnatal anagen, but subsequent hair cycles were normal. As in the hypomorph, IFE proliferation was stimulated and expression of K10 and K17 was disturbed. Older mice developed tumors with elements of IFE differentiation. Keratinocytes cultured from K5Cre x Dll1(flox/flox) epidermis showed a transient increase in proliferation, with a subsequent decrease in integrin expression and increased terminal differentiation. These results demonstrate that Dll1 contributes to the control of proliferation and differentiation in IFE, whereas Jagged1 regulates hair follicle differentiation.
BACKGROUND: Our study characterizes Delta-like 1 (Dll1) in the adult mouse, particularly in normal versus injured vasculature, with the aid of the transgenic Dll1(LacZ) line.METHODS: Normal mouse adult tissues or those from the Dll1(LacZ) reporter line were analyzed for Dll1 expression and promoter activity. Vascular tissue was analyzed before and after carotid artery ligation.RESULTS: In wild-type mice, Dll1 transcript expression was widespread. Similarly, the Dll1(LacZ) reporter had beta-galactosidase activity detectable in the cerebellum, cerebrum, spinal cord, liver, lung and cornea, although the normal adult vasculature had no reporter expression. Following arterial ligation, there was acute induction of Dll1(LacZ) reporter expression, both in the ligated left carotid artery, and the uninjured right contralateral artery. Expression returned to low/undetectable levels 4-10 days after arterial ligation.CONCLUSION: The expression of Dll1 in the adult mouse is more widespread than previously realized, although not in resting large arteries in the adult mouse. Following arterial injury, Dll1 promoter activity is induced selectively in the endothelial cells of both the injured artery and the contralateral uninjured artery. Our results show that while overall expression in the adult mouse is widespread, Dll1 may be selectively expressed in the endothelium of injured vasculature, similar to the endothelial-restricted expression of Dll4.
Notch signaling regulates B and T lymphocyte development and T cell effector class decision. In this work, we tested whether Notch activity affects mature B cell activation and differentiation to antibody-secreting cells (ASC). We show increased frequency of ASC in cultures of splenic B cells activated with LPS or anti-CD40 when provided exogenous Notch ligand Delta-like-1 (Dll1). Our results indicate that Notch-Dll1 interaction releases a default pathway that otherwise inhibits Ig secretion upon B cell activation. Thus, Dll1 enhanced spontaneous Ig secretion by naturally activated marginal zone B and B1 cells and reversed the inhibition of ASC differentiation mediated by B cell receptor crosslinking during LPS. Moreover, suppression of Notch signaling in B cell expression of either a dominant-negative mutant form of Mastermind-like 1 or a null mutation of Notch1 not only prevented Dll1-mediated enhancement of ASC differentiation but also reduced dramatically LPS-induced Ig secretion. Finally, we show that Dll1 and Jagged-1 are differentially expressed in discrete areas of the spleen, and that the effect of Notch engagement on Ig secretion is ligand-specific. These results indicate that Notch ligands participate in the definition of the mature B cell microenvironment that influences their terminal differentiation.
Notch mediates the process of lateral inhibition that controls the production of hair cells in the inner ear. Hair cells are known to express Notch ligands Dll1 and Jag2, which signal through Notch1 in adjacent supporting cells. However, recent genetic and pharmacological studies indicate that the level of Notch-mediated lateral inhibition is greater than can be accounted for by Dll1 and Jag2. Here, we report that another Notch ligand, Dll3, is expressed in developing hair cells, in a pattern that overlaps that of Dll1 and Jag2. We analyzed the cochleae of Dll3(pu) mutant mice, but did not detect any abnormalities. However, earlier studies have demonstrated that there is functional redundancy among Notch ligands in cochlear development and loss of one ligand can be at least partially compensated for by another. Thus Dll3 may play a role in lateral inhibition similar to that of Dll1 and Jag2.
The Notch ligands Dll1 and Dll3 are coexpressed in the presomitic mesoderm of mouse embryos. Despite their coexpression, mutations in Dll1 and Dll3 cause strikingly different defects. To determine if there is any functional equivalence, we replaced Dll1 with Dll3 in mice. Dll3 does not compensate for Dll1; DLL1 activates Notch in Drosophila wing discs, but DLL3 does not. We do not observe evidence for antagonism between DLL1 and DLL3, or repression of Notch activity in mice or Drosophila. In vitro analyses show that differences in various domains of DLL1 and DLL3 individually contribute to their biochemical nonequivalence. In contrast to endogenous DLL1 located on the surface of presomitic mesoderm cells, we find endogenous DLL3 predominantly in the Golgi apparatus. Our data demonstrate distinct in vivo functions for DLL1 and DLL3. They suggest that DLL3 does not antagonize DLL1 in the presomitic mesoderm and warrant further analyses of potential physiological functions of DLL3 in the Golgi network.
BACKGROUND/AIM: In congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH), there is pulmonary neuroendocrine cell (PNEC) hyperplasia and Clara (nonendocrine) cell hypoplasia, the meaning of which remains unknown. In embryonic/fetal lung, an intricate cross talk between Notch pathway and basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors Mash1 and Hes1 determines the balance between endocrine and nonendocrine epithelial cell fate. Differences at the molecular level in pulmonary epithelial cell differentiation between control and CDH hypoplastic lungs were investigated.MATERIAL AND METHODS: The nitrofen-induced CDH rat model was used. At 15.5 days postconception (dpc), fetuses were assigned to 2 experimental groups: control and nitrofen (exposed to nitrofen, without CDH), whereas at 17.5, 19.5, and 21.5 dpc, fetuses were assigned to 3 experimental groups: control, nitrofen, and CDH (exposed to nitrofen, with CDH). The fetal lungs were processed for expression quantification of CC10, Hes1, Mash1, and Dll1 by real-time polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS: In control fetuses, expression of all studied genes increased with gestational age. In nitrofen-exposed fetal lungs, endocrine cell marker Mash1 was downregulated only at the earliest studied gestational age, whereas Dll1 expression levels were significantly increased in the CDH group at 19.5 and 21.5 dpc. Regarding nonendocrine markers, Hes1 presented increased expression at 15.5 and 19.5 dpc, whereas CC10 was downregulated at 17.5 and 19.5 dpc but not at term.CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that PNEC hyperplasia in CDH fetal lung is likely because of Notch signaling deregulation, whereas Clara cell hypoplasia in CDH lungs could be a consequence of protein synthesis delay, reflecting a functional maturation hindrance and not a cell fate commitment problem.
Despite the relatively simplified organization of the olfactory epithelium (OE), our understanding of the factors that regulate its cellular diversity is limited. Genetic and localization studies suggest that Notch signaling may be important in this process. We characterize here a population of Notch1 (+) olfactory basal cells in embryonic mice that coordinately express both the Notch effector Hes5 and the glycosyltransferase Lfng. These cells are distinct from Mash1(+) neuronal precursors, but give rise to sensory neurons, suggesting that Notch1 signals may in part function to maintain a neurogenic progenitor pool. Furthermore, Lfng(+) cells also generate a population of cells in the migratory mass that appear to be ensheathing glial precursors, indicating potential multipotency in these progenitors. The Notch ligand Dll4 is expressed by basal OE cells that are interspersed with Notch1(+) progenitors during later OE neurogenesis. In contrast, mice deficient in Dll1 exhibit a smaller OE and a loss of Hes5 expression, indicating an earlier function in olfactory progenitor cell development. Taken together, these results further support a role for Notch signaling in the regulation of olfactory neurogenesis and cell diversity.
BACKGROUND: Expression of the mouse Delta-like 1 (Dll1) gene in the presomitic mesoderm and in the caudal halves of somites of the developing embryo is required for the formation of epithelial somites and for the maintenance of caudal somite identity, respectively. The rostro-caudal polarity of somites is initiated early on within the presomitic mesoderm in nascent somites. Here we have investigated the requirement of restricted Dll1 expression in caudal somite compartments for the maintenance of rostro-caudal somite polarity and the morphogenesis of the axial skeleton. We did this by overexpressing a functional copy of the Dll1 gene throughout the paraxial mesoderm, in particular in anterior somite compartments, during somitogenesis in transgenic mice.RESULTS: Epithelial somites were generated normally and appeared histologically normal in embryos of two independent Dll1 over-expressing transgenic lines. Gene expression analyses of rostro-caudal marker genes suggested that over-expression of Dll1 without restriction to caudal compartments was not sufficient to confer caudal identity to rostral somite halves in transgenic embryos. Nevertheless, Dll1 over-expression caused dysmorphologies of the axial skeleton, in particular, in morphological structures that derive from the articular joint forming compartment of vertebrae. Accordingly, transgenic animals exhibited missing or reduced intervertebral discs, rostral and caudal articular processes as well as costal heads of ribs. In addition, the midline of the vertebral column did not develop normally. Transgenic mice had open neural arches and split vertebral bodies with ectopic pseudo-growth plates. Endochondral bone formation and ossification in the developing vertebrae were delayed.CONCLUSION: The mice overexpressing Dll1 exhibit skeletal dysmorphologies that are also evident in several mutant mice with defects in somite compartmentalisation. The Dll1 transgenic mice demonstrate that vertebral dysmorphologies such as bony fusions of vertebrae and midline vertebral defects can occur without apparent changes in somitic rostro-caudal marker gene expression. Also, we demonstrate that the over-expression of the Dll1 gene in rostral epithelial somites is not sufficient to confer caudal identity to rostral compartments. Our data suggest that the restricted Dll1 expression in caudal epithelial somites may be particularly required for the proper development of the intervertebral joint forming compartment.
Growth of functional arteries is essential for the restoration of blood flow to ischemic organs. Notch signaling regulates arterial differentiation upstream of ephrin-B2 during embryonic development, but its role during postnatal arteriogenesis is unknown. Here, we identify the Notch ligand Delta-like 1 (Dll1) as an essential regulator of postnatal arteriogenesis. Dll1 expression was specifically detected in arterial endothelial cells, but not in venous endothelial cells or capillaries. During ischemia-induced arteriogenesis endothelial Dll1 expression was strongly induced, Notch signaling activated and ephrin-B2 upregulated, whereas perivascular cells expressed proangiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor, and the ephrin-B2 activator EphB4. In heterozygous Dll1 mutant mice endothelial Notch activation and ephrin-B2 induction after hindlimb ischemia were absent, arterial collateral growth was abrogated and recovery of blood flow was severely impaired, but perivascular vascular endothelial growth factor and EphB4 expression was unaltered. In vitro, angiogenic growth factors synergistically activated Notch signaling by induction of Dll1, which was necessary and sufficient to regulate ephrin-B2 expression and to induce ephrin-B2 and EphB4-dependent branching morphogenesis in human arterial EC. Thus, Dll1-mediated Notch activation regulates ephrin-B2 expression and postnatal arteriogenesis.
In vertebrates, skeletal myogenesis is initiated by the generation of myoblasts followed by their differentiation to myocytes and the formation of myofibers. The determination of myoblasts and their differentiation are controlled by muscle regulatory factors that are activated at specific stages during myogenesis. During late embryonic and fetal stages a distinct population of resident proliferating progenitor cells is the major source of myogenic cells. How the differentiation of myoblasts and progenitor cells is regulated is not clear. We show that in mouse embryos the Notch ligand Delta1 (Dll1) controls both differentiation of early myoblasts and maintenance of myogenic progenitor cells. Early dermomyotome-derived myoblasts are determined normally in Dll1 mutant embryos, but their differentiation is accelerated, leading to a transient excess of myotomal muscle fibers. Similarly, migratory hypaxial myogenic cells colonize the limb buds and activate muscle regulatory factor expression normally, but muscle differentiation progresses more rapidly. Resident progenitor cells defined by Pax3/Pax7 expression are formed initially, but they are progressively lost and virtually absent at embryonic day 14.5. Muscle growth declines beginning around embryonic day 12, leading to subsequent severe muscle hypotrophy in hypomorphic Dll1 fetuses. We suggest that premature and excessive differentiation leads to depletion of progenitor cells and cessation of muscle growth, and we conclude that Dll1 provides essential signals that are required to prevent uncontrolled differentiation early and ensure sustained muscle differentiation during development.
The Notch signaling pathway is an evolutionarily conserved transduction pathway involved in embryonic patterning and regulation of cell fates during development. Recent studies have demonstrated that this pathway is integral to a complex system of interactions, which are also involved in distinct human diseases. Delta1 is one of the known ligands of the Notch receptors. Mice homozygous for a loss-of-function allele of the Delta1 gene Dll1(lacZ/lacZ) die during embryonic development. Here, we present the results of two phenotype-driven modifier screens. Heterozygous Dll1(lacZ) knockout animals were crossed with ENU-mutagenized mice and screened for dysmorphological, clinical chemical, and immunological variants that are dependent on the Delta1 loss-of-function allele. First, we show that mutagenized heterozygous Dll1(lacZ) offspring have reduced body weight and altered specific clinical chemical parameters, including changes in metabolites and electrolytes relevant for kidney function. In our mutagenesis screen we have successfully generated 35 new mutant lines. Of major interest are 7 mutant lines that exhibit a Dll1(lacZ/+)-dependent phenotype. These mutant mouse lines provide excellent in vivo tools for studying the role of Notch signaling in kidney and liver function, cholesterol and iron metabolism, cell-fate decisions, and during maturation of T cells in the immune system.
Author information:(1)Key Lab of Microbiological Engineering of Agricultural Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Microbiology, College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China. microglf@mailme.cn
The critical contribution of the Notch signaling pathway to vascular morphogenesis has been underscored by loss-of-function studies in mouse and zebrafish. Nonetheless, a comprehensive understanding as to how this signaling system influences the formation of blood vessels at the cellular and molecular level is far from reached. Here, we provide a detailed analysis of the distribution of active Notch1 in relation to its DSL (Delta, Serrate, Lag2) ligands, Jagged1, Delta-like1, and Delta-like4, during progressive stages of vascular morphogenesis and maturation. Important differences in the cellular distribution of Notch ligands were found. Jagged1 (Jag1) was detected in "stalk cells" of the leading vasculature and at arterial branch points, a site where Delta-like4 (Dll4) was clearly absent. Dll4 was the only ligand expressed in "tip cells" at the end of the growing vascular sprouts. It was also present in stalk cells, capillaries, arterial endothelium, and in mural cells of mature arteries in a homogenous manner. Delta-like1 (Dll1) was observed in both arteries and veins of the developing network, but was also excluded from mature arterial branch points. These findings support alternative and distinct roles for Notch ligands during the angiogenic process.
Foxn1 transcription factor is known to be essential for development of the thymic organ. We analyzed whether Foxn1 expression in thymic epithelial cells is necessary for the expression of functional molecules such as Delta-like 4 (Dll4) and CCL25, and whether maintenance of these molecular expressions depends on the Foxn1 transcription factor. We show that almost all thymic epithelial cells in the early thymus anlagen express Foxn1, and Dll4 and CCL25 are limitedly expressed in Foxn1-positive epithelial cells. The results are consistent with previous reports suggesting the indispensability of Foxn1 for epithelial cell differentiation which enables these cells to induce the expressions of CCL25 (Bleul, C. C. and Boehm, T. 2000. Chemokines define distinct microenvironments in the developing thymus. Eur. J. Immunol. 30:3371), Dll1 and Dll4 (Tsukamoto, N., Itoi, M., Nishikawa, M. and Amagai, T. 2005. Lack of Delta like 1 and 4 expressions in nude thymus anlages. Cell. Immunol. 234:77). On the other hand, the expression of Foxn1 was not detectable in a large number of post-natal thymic epithelial cells. Both Foxn1-positive and -negative epithelial cells seem to express Dll4 and CCL25. Therefore, the expressions of Dll4 and CCL25 are independent of Foxn1 transcription factor in the post-natal thymus. These results indicate that in the post-natal thymus, epithelial cells may maintain the expressions of those functional molecules without the aid of Foxn1 transcription factor.
Notch signaling is one of key pathways constituting the stem cell signaling network. DLL1, DLL3, DLL4, JAG1 and JAG2 with DSL domain are typical Notch ligands, while DNER, F3/Contactin and NB-3 without DSL domain are atypical Notch ligands. Notch-ligand binding to NOTCH1, NOTCH2, NOTCH3 or NOTCH4 receptor induces the receptor proteolysis by metalloprotease and gamma-secretase to release Notch intracellular domain (NICD). Typical Notch ligands transduce signals to the CSL-NICD-Mastermind complex for the maintenance of stem or progenitor (transit-amplifying) cells through transcriptional activation of HES1, HES5, HES7, HEY1, HEY2 and HEYL genes, and also to the NF-kappaB-NICD complex for the augmentation of NF-kappaB signaling. Atypical Notch ligands transduce signals to the CSL-NICD-Deltex complex for the differentiation of progenitor cells through MAG transcriptional activation. Notch signals are transduced to the canonical pathway (CSL-NICD-Mastermind signaling cascade) or the non-canonical pathway (NF-kappaB-NICD and CSL-NICD-Deltex signaling cascades) based on the expression profile of Notch ligands, Notch receptors, and Notch signaling modifiers. Canonical Notch signaling is activated in the stem or progenitor domain of gastrointestinal epithelium, such as basal layer in esophagus and lower part of the crypt in colon. Notch signaling to inhibit secretory cell differentiation is oncogenic in gastric cancer and colorectal cancer, while Notch signaling to promote keratinocyte differentiation is anti-oncogenic in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), epigenetic change, and genetic alteration of genes encoding Notch signaling-associated molecules will be utilized as biomarkers for gastrointestinal cancer. gamma-Secretase inhibitors, functioning as Notch signaling inhibitors, will be applied as anti-cancer drugs for gastric cancer and colorectal cancer.
Delta-like 1 (Dll1) is a mammalian ligand for Notch receptors. Interactions between Dll1 and Notch in trans activate the Notch pathway, whereas Dll1 binding to Notch in cis inhibits Notch signaling. Dll1 undergoes proteolytic processing in its extracellular domain by ADAM10. In this work we demonstrate that Dll1 represents a substrate for several other members of the ADAM family. In co-transfected cells, Dll1 is constitutively cleaved by ADAM12, and the N-terminal fragment of Dll1 is released to medium. ADAM12-mediated cleavage of Dll1 is cell density-dependent, takes place in cis orientation, and does not require the presence of the cytoplasmic domain of ADAM12. Full-length Dll1, but not its N- or C-terminal proteolytic fragment, co-immunoprecipitates with ADAM12. By using a Notch reporter construct, we show that Dll1 processing by ADAM12 increases Notch signaling in a cell-autonomous manner. Furthermore, ADAM9 and ADAM17 have the ability to process Dll1. In contrast, ADAM15 does not cleave Dll1, although the two proteins still co-immunoprecipitate with each other. Asn-353 present in the catalytic motif of ADAM12 and other Dll1-processing ADAMs, but absent in ADAM15, is necessary for Dll1 cleavage. Dll1 cleavage is reduced in ADAM9/12/15(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), suggesting that the endogenous ADAM9 and/or ADAM12 present in wild type MEFs contribute to Dll1 processing. Finally, the endogenous Dll1 present in primary mouse myoblasts undergoes cleavage in confluent, differentiating myoblast cultures, and this cleavage is decreased by ADAM12 small interfering RNAs. Our findings expand the role of ADAM proteins in the regulation of Notch signaling.
Transgenic green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter embryonic stem (ES) cells are powerful tools for studying gene regulation and lineage choice during development. Here we present a rapid method for the generation of ES cells expressing GFP under the control of selected genes. Bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) from a previously constructed GFP transcriptional fusion library (Gene Expression Nervous System Atlas [GENSAT]) were modified for use in ES cells, and multiple BAC transgenic ES cell lines were generated. Specific GFP expression in transgenic cell lines was confirmed during neural differentiation marking neural stem cells, neuronal precursors, and glial progeny by Hes5, Dll1, and GFAP, respectively. GFP was dynamically regulated in ES cell progeny in response to soluble factors that inhibit Notch signaling and a factor that directs astroglial fate choice. Our protocols provide a simple and efficient strategy to utilize the whole GENSAT BAC library to create hundreds of novel fluorescent cell lines for use in ES cell biology.
The IDDM8 region on chromosome 6q27, first identified as a susceptibility locus for type 1 diabetes, has previously been linked and associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The region contains a number of potential candidate genes, including programmed cell death 2 (PDCD2), the proteosome subunit beta type 1 (PSMB1), delta-like ligand 1 (DLL-1) and TATA box-binding protein (TBP) amongst others. The aim of this study was to fine map the IDDM8 region on chromosome 6q27, focusing on the genes in the region, to identify polymorphisms that may contribute to susceptibility to RA and potentially to other autoimmune diseases. Validated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs; n = 65) were selected from public databases from the 330 kb region of IDDM8. These were genotyped using Sequenom MassArray genotyping technology in two datasets; the test dataset comprised 180 RA cases and 180 controls. We tested 50 SNPs for association with RA and any significant associations were genotyped in a second dataset of 174 RA cases and 192 controls, and the datasets were combined before analysis. Association analysis was performed by chi-square test implemented in Stata software and linkage disequilibrium and haplotype analysis was performed using Helix tree version 4.1. There was initial weak evidence of association, with RA, of a number of SNPs around the loc154449 putative gene and within the KIAA1838 gene; however, these associations were not significant in the combined dataset. Our study has failed to detect evidence of association with any of the known genes mapping to the IDDM8 locus with RA.
This study tested the possible functional relationship of two signalling mechanisms shown previously to be involved in human prostate cancer (PCa), Notch and voltage-gated sodium channel. Notch1 and Notch2 were differentially expressed in PCa cell lines of varying metastatic potential (LNCaP, PC-3, PC-3M) in comparison to a normal prostate cell line (PNT2), whereas Notch3 and Notch4 were not expressed. The Notch ligand Jagged1, but not Jagged2, was increased in all cell lines, whereas the Notch downstream target Deltex was not expressed. In comparison to the LNCaP cell line, Hes1, another downstream target, showed elevated expression in the metastatic PC-3 and PC-3M cells and promoted lateral motility. In contrast, the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (Dll1) levels were higher in LNCaP compared with PC-3 and PC-3M cells. Importantly, decreasing Dll1 expression increased the lateral motility of PC-3 cells, whereas blocking voltage-gated Na(+) channel activity with tetrodotoxin decreased motility. However, the effect of Dll1 was independent of Notch signalling through Hes1 and voltage-gated Na(+) channel expression/activity.
The transcription factor STAT3 promotes astrocytic differentiation of neural precursor cells (NPCs) during postnatal development of the mouse neocortex, but little has been known of the possible role of STAT3 in the embryonic neocortex. We now show that STAT3 is expressed in NPCs of the mouse embryonic neocortex and that the JAK-STAT3 signaling pathway plays an essential role in the maintenance of NPCs by fibroblast growth factor 2. Conditional deletion of the STAT3 gene in NPCs reduced their capacity to form neurospheres in vitro, as well as promoted neuronal differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, STAT3 was found to maintain NPCs in the undifferentiated state in a non-cell-autonomous manner. STAT3-dependent expression of the Notch ligand Delta-like1 (DLL1) appears to account for the non-cell-autonomous effect of STAT3 on NPC maintenance, as knockdown of DLL1 by RNA interference or inhibition of Notch activation with a gamma-secretase inhibitor abrogated the enhancement of neurosphere formation by STAT3. Our results reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism of interaction between the JAK-STAT3 and DLL1-Notch signaling pathways, as well as a pivotal role for this interaction in maintenance of NPCs during early neocortical development.
The bone marrow and thymus, although both hemopoietic environments, induce very distinct differentiation outcomes. The former supports hemopoietic stem cell self-renewal and multiple hemopoietic lineages, while the latter supports T lymphopoiesis almost exclusively. This distinction suggests that the thymic environment acts to restrict the hemopoietic fates available to thymic immigrants. In this study, we demonstrate that the addition of the Notch ligand Delta-like-1 (Dll-1) to an in vitro system that otherwise supports myelopoiesis, greatly reduces the myelopoietic potential of stem cells or uncommitted progenitors. In contrast, committed myeloid progenitors mature regardless of the presence of Dll-1. The block in myelopoiesis is the direct result of Notch signaling within the hemopoietic progenitor, and Dll-1-induced signals cause a rapid increase in the expression of the zinc finger transcription factor GATA-2. Importantly, in the absence of GATA-2, Dll-1-induced signals fail to inhibit commitment to the myeloid fate. Taken together, our results support a role for GATA-2 in allowing Dll-1 to restrict non-T cell lineage differentiation outcomes.
Author information:(1)Key Lab of Microbiological Engineering of Agricultural Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Microbiology Department, College of Life Science, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China. hejian@njau.edu.cn
WNT, Notch, FGF, and Hedgehog signaling pathways network together during embryogenesis, tissue regeneration, and carcinogenesis. Association of Notch ligands with Notch receptors on neighboring cells leads to cleavage of Notch receptors by metalloprotease and gamma-secretase to induce nuclear translocation of Notch intracellular domain (NICD). Nuclear complex, consisting of CSL (RBPSUH), NICD, Mastermind (MAML), p300 and histone acetyltransferase (HAT), then induces transcriptional activation of Notch target genes, such as HES1, HES5, HES7, HEY1, HEY2 and HEYL. Here, we searched for TCF/LEF-binding site within the promoter region of Notch ligand genes, including DLL1, DLL3, DLL4, JAG1 and JAG2. Because TCF/LEF-binding sites were identified within human JAG1 promoter based on bioinformatics and human intelligence, comparative genomics analyses on JAG1 orthologs were further performed. Chimpanzee JAG1 gene, consisting of 26 exons, was identified within NW_120319.1 genome sequence. XM_525264.1 and XM_514517.1 were not the correct coding sequences for chimpanzee JAG1. Chimpanzee JAG1 gene was found to encode a 1218-amino-acid protein showing 99.5% and 96.2% total-amino-acid identity with human JAG1 and mouse Jag1, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that JAG1 orthologs were more conserved than those of other Notch ligands. JAG1 gene was identified as evolutionarily conserved target of WNT/beta-catenin signaling pathway based on the conservation of double TCF/LEF-binding sites within 5'-promoter region of mammalian JAG1 orthologs. Human JAG1 mRNA was expressed in embryonic stem (ES) cells, neural tissues, lung carcinoid, gastric cancer, pancreatic cancer, colon cancer, and also in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of skin, oral cavity, esophagus, head and neck. JAG1 expression on progenitor cells due to canonical WNT signaling activation induces self-renewal of stem cells due to Notch signaling activation. JAG1, functioning as WNT-dependent Notch signaling activator, is the key molecule maintaining the homeostasis of stem and progenitor cells.
AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Maternal diabetes induces neural tube defects during embryogenesis. Since the neural tube is derived from neural stem cells (NSCs), it is hypothesised that in diabetic pregnancy neural tube defects result from altered expression of developmental control genes, leading to abnormal proliferation and cell-fate choice of NSCs.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cell viability, proliferation index and apoptosis of NSCs and differentiated cells from mice exposed to physiological or high glucose concentration medium were examined by a tetrazolium salt assay, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labelling and immunocytochemistry. Expression of developmental genes, including sonic hedgehog (Shh), bone morphogenetic protein 4 (Bmp4), neurogenin 1/2 (Neurog1/2), achaete-scute complex-like 1 (Ascl1), oligodendrocyte transcription factor 1 (Olig1), oligodendrocyte lineage transcription factor 2 (Olig2), hairy and enhancer of split 1/5 (Hes1/5) and delta-like 1 (Dll1), was analysed by real-time RT-PCR. Proliferation index and neuronal specification in the forebrain of embryos at embryonic day 11.5 were examined histologically.RESULTS: High glucose decreased the proliferation of NSCs and differentiated cells. The incidence of apoptosis was increased in NSCs treated with high glucose, but not in the differentiated cells. High glucose also accelerated neuronal and glial differentiation from NSCs. The decreased proliferation index and early differentiation of neurons were evident in the telencephalon of embryos derived from diabetic mice. Exposure to high glucose altered the mRNA expression levels of Shh, Bmp4, Neurog1/2, Ascl1, Hes1, Dll1 and Olig1 in NSCs and Shh, Dll1, Neurog1/2 and Hes5 in differentiated cells.CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: The changes in proliferation and differentiation of NSCs exposed to high glucose are associated with altered expression of genes that are involved in cell-cycle progression and cell-fate specification during neurulation. These changes may form the basis for the defective neural tube patterning observed in embryos of diabetic pregnancies.
Wnt and Notch signaling have long been established as strongly oncogenic in the mouse mammary gland. Aberrant expression of several Wnts and other components of this pathway in human breast carcinomas has been reported, but evidence for a causative role in the human disease has been missing. Here we report that increased Wnt signaling, as achieved by ectopic expression of Wnt-1, triggers the DNA damage response (DDR) and an ensuing cascade of events resulting in tumorigenic conversion of primary human mammary epithelial cells. Wnt-1-transformed cells have high telomerase activity and compromised p53 and Rb function, grow as spheres in suspension, and in mice form tumors that closely resemble medullary carcinomas of the breast. Notch signaling is up-regulated through a mechanism involving increased expression of the Notch ligands Dll1, Dll3, and Dll4 and is required for expression of the tumorigenic phenotype. Increased Notch signaling in primary human mammary epithelial cells is sufficient to reproduce some aspects of Wnt-induced transformation. The relevance of these findings for human breast cancer is supported by the fact that expression of Wnt-1 and Wnt-4 and of established Wnt target genes, such as Axin-2 and Lef-1, as well as the Notch ligands, such as Dll3 and Dll4, is up-regulated in human breast carcinomas.
Each of the sensory patches in the epithelium of the inner ear is a mosaic of hair cells and supporting cells. Notch signalling is thought to govern this pattern of differentiation through lateral inhibition. Recent experiments in the chick suggest, however, that Notch signalling also has a prior function - inductive rather than inhibitory - in defining the prosensory patches from which the differentiated cells arise. Several Notch ligands are expressed in each patch, but their individual roles in relation to the two functions of Notch signalling are unclear. We have used a Cre-LoxP approach to knock out two of these ligands, Delta1 (Dll1) and Jagged1 (Jag1), in the mouse ear. In the absence of Dll1, auditory hair cells develop early and in excess, in agreement with the lateral inhibition hypothesis. In the absence of Jag1, by contrast, the total number of these cells is strongly reduced, with complete loss of cochlear outer hair cells and some groups of vestibular hair cells, indicating that Jag1 is required for the prosensory inductive function of Notch. The number of cochlear inner hair cells, however, is almost doubled. This correlates with loss of expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p27(Kip1) (Cdkn1b), suggesting that signalling by Jag1 is also needed to limit proliferation of prosensory cells, and that there is a core part of this population whose prosensory character is established independently of Jag1-Notch signalling. Our findings confirm that Notch signalling in the ear has distinct prosensory and lateral-inhibitory functions, for which different ligands are primarily responsible.
Author information:(1)College of Life Sciences, Key Laboratory for Microbiological Engineering of Agricultural Environment of Ministry of Agriculture, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China.
A requirement for beta4galactosyltransferase-1 (beta4GalT-1) activity in the modulation of Notch signaling by the glycosyltransferase Fringe was previously identified in a mammalian co-culture assay. Notch signaling is necessary for the formation of somites in mammals. We therefore investigated the expression of eleven Notch pathway and somitogenic genes in E9.5 mouse embryos lacking beta4GalT-1. Four of these genes were altered in expression pattern or expression level. The Notch target genes Hes5 and Mesp2 were affected to some degree in all mutant embryos. The Notch ligand genes Dll1 and Dll3 were reduced or altered in expression in a significant proportion of mutants. While there were no differences in the number or morphology of somites in E9.5 B4galt1 null embryos, the number of lumbar vertebrae in mutant embryos differed from control littermates (P < or = 0.01). The subtlety of the in vivo phenotype may be due to redundancy since several B4galt genes related to B4galt1 are expressed during embryogenesis.
The three-dimensional microarchitecture of the thymus plays a unique role in directing T cell lineage commitment and development. This is supported by the fact that, in contrast to fetal thymic organ cultures, thymic stromal cell monolayer cultures (TSMC) fail to support T lymphopoiesis. Nevertheless, OP9-DL1 cell monolayer cultures induce T lineage commitment and differentiation. Thus, the inability of TSMC to support T lymphopoiesis may be due to a loss of Notch ligand expression and/or function during culture. In this study, we report that, in contrast to fetal thymic organ cultures, TSMC fail to maintain expression of the Notch ligands, Delta-like (Dll) 1 and Dll4, and concomitantly lose the ability to support T lymphopoiesis. Importantly, ectopic re-expression of Dll1 or Dll4 is sufficient to restore the ability of TSMC to support T lymphopoiesis. These findings demonstrate that maintenance of endogenous Dll1 or Dll4 expression by thymic stromal cells is required for the commitment and differentiation of T cells in the absence of a three-dimensional microenvironment.
BACKGROUND: The objective of the current study was to characterize the morphological and genetic basis of cryptorchidism.METHODS AND RESULTS: We investigated cryptorchidism in LH receptor (Lhr) knockout (LhrKO) mice and how testosterone-replacement therapy (TRT) worked to correct the phenotype. The results revealed that while gubernacular development was indistinguishable between Lhr-null and wild-type animals until 7 days of age, it was subsequently severely impaired in null animals. This was due to a reduction in mesenchymal cell division, differentiation into cremaster muscle cells and their delayed maturation. While transcript levels of Hoxa10, Hoxa11, Desrt and Dll1 were indistinguishable, the levels of Notch1, Numb and Lgr8 in the gubernaculum and Insl3 in the testes were lower in Lhr-null than in wild-type siblings. The TRT, which completed testicular descent into the scrotum, corrected the morphological changes and the expression of Lgr8, Numb and Notch, but not Insl3, to wild-type levels. Transection of the genitofemoral nerve did not prevent the TRT effect.CONCLUSION: In summary, cryptorchidism in Lhr-null animals was caused by defects in the gubernacular development due to testosterone deficiency. TRT reversed all the morphological and gene expression changes except Insl3, suggesting that testosterone, not INSL3, secreted by Leydig cells, facilitates the completion of testicular descent.
The mammalian auditory sensory epithelium, the organ of Corti, contains sensory hair cells and nonsensory supporting cells arranged in a highly patterned mosaic. Notch-mediated lateral inhibition is the proposed mechanism for creating this sensory mosaic. Previous work has shown that mice lacking the Notch ligand JAG2 differentiate supernumerary hair cells in the cochlea, consistent with the lateral inhibitory model. However, it was not clear why only relatively modest increases in hair cell production were observed in Jag2 mutant mice. Here, we show that another Notch ligand, DLL1, functions synergistically with JAG2 in regulating hair cell differentiation in the cochlea. We also show by conditional inactivation that these ligands probably signal through the NOTCH1 receptor. Supernumerary hair cells in Dll1/Jag2 double mutants arise primarily through a switch in cell fate, rather than through excess proliferation. Although these results demonstrate an important role for Notch-mediated lateral inhibition during cochlear hair cell patterning, we also detected abnormally prolonged cellular proliferation that preferentially affected supporting cells in the organ of Corti. Our results demonstrate that the Notch pathway plays a dual role in regulating cellular differentiation and patterning in the cochlea, acting both through lateral inhibition and the control of cellular proliferation.
Periodical production of somites provides an excellent model system for understanding genesis of metameric structures underlying embryonic development. This study reports production of somites with roughly half rostro-caudal length in homozygous Sip1 (Smad-interacting protein 1) knockout mouse embryos. This altered periodicity of somitogenesis is caused by the rostral expansion of the expression domain of genes involved in the maintenance of unsegmented state of paraxial mesoderm, e.g., Fgf8, Wnt3a, Dll3, and Tbx6. This is accompanied by the rostral extension of oscillatory gene expression such as L-fng, Hes7, and Dll1, and the rostrally shifted termination of Raldh2 expression that continues from the anterior embryonic side. The phenotype of Sip1-/- embryo introduces a new molecular component SIP1 in positioning of somite boundaries, and provides support for the current "clock and wavefront" model.
Down syndrome (DS) patients suffer from mental retardation, but also display enhanced beta-APP production and develop cortical amyloid plaques at an early age. As beta-APP and Notch are both processed by gamma-secretase, we analyzed expression of the Notch signaling pathway in the adult DS brain and in a model system for DS, human trisomy 21 fibroblasts by quantitative PCR. In adult DS cortex we found that Notch1, Dll1 and Hes1 expression is up-regulated. Moreover, DS fibroblasts and Alzheimer disease cortex also show overexpression of Notch1 and Dll1, indicating that enhanced beta-APP processing found in both DS and AD could be instrumental in these changes. Using pull-down studies we could demonstrate interaction of APP with Notch1, suggesting that these transmembrane proteins form heterodimers, but independent of gamma-secretase. We could demonstrate binding of the intracellular domain of Notch1 to the APP adaptor protein Fe65. Furthermore, activated Notch1 can trans-activate an APP target gene, Kai1, and vice versa, activated APP can trans-activate the classical Notch target gene Hes1. These data suggest that Notch expression is activated in Down syndrome, possibly through cross-talk with APP signaling. This interaction might affect brain development, since the Notch pathway plays a pivotal role in neuron-glia differentiation.
BACKGROUND: Huntingtin, the HD gene encoded protein mutated by polyglutamine expansion in Huntington's disease, is required in extraembryonic tissues for proper gastrulation, implicating its activities in nutrition or patterning of the developing embryo. To test these possibilities, we have used whole mount in situ hybridization to examine embryonic patterning and morphogenesis in homozygous Hdh(ex4/5) huntingtin deficient embryos.RESULTS: In the absence of huntingtin, expression of nutritive genes appears normal but E7.0-7.5 embryos exhibit a unique combination of patterning defects. Notable are a shortened primitive streak, absence of a proper node and diminished production of anterior streak derivatives. Reduced Wnt3a, Tbx6 and Dll1 expression signify decreased paraxial mesoderm and reduced Otx2 expression and lack of headfolds denote a failure of head development. In addition, genes initially broadly expressed are not properly restricted to the posterior, as evidenced by the ectopic expression of Nodal, Fgf8 and Gsc in the epiblast and T (Brachyury) and Evx1 in proximal mesoderm derivatives. Despite impaired posterior restriction and anterior streak deficits, overall anterior/posterior polarity is established. A single primitive streak forms and marker expression shows that the anterior epiblast and anterior visceral endoderm (AVE) are specified.CONCLUSION: Huntingtin is essential in the early patterning of the embryo for formation of the anterior region of the primitive streak, and for down-regulation of a subset of dynamic growth and transcription factor genes. These findings provide fundamental starting points for identifying the novel cellular and molecular activities of huntingtin in the extraembryonic tissues that govern normal anterior streak development. This knowledge may prove to be important for understanding the mechanism by which the dominant polyglutamine expansion in huntingtin determines the loss of neurons in Huntington's disease.
Notch signaling is required for the early steps in T cell development. However, distribution of Notch ligands in the thymus anlages is not clear. We investigated the expressions of Delta like (Dll) 1 and Dll4 in the mouse thymus anlages. In the normal thymus anlages on embryonic day 13, Dll4 is strongly expressed throughout the epithelial region, but Dll1 is expressed only in scattered cells. In contrast, epithelial cells of the nude thymus anlages express neither Dll1 nor Dll4. These results indicate that expressions of Dll1 and Dll4 in thymic epithelial cells are regulated by Foxn1 transcriptional factor.
The Delta-Notch signaling pathway is an evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling mechanism essential for cell fate specification. Mind bomb 1 (Mib1) has been identified as a ubiquitin ligase that promotes the endocytosis of Delta. We now report that mice lacking Mib1 die prior to embryonic day 11.5, with pan-Notch defects in somitogenesis, neurogenesis, vasculogenesis and cardiogenesis. The Mib1-/- embryos exhibit reduced expression of Notch target genes Hes5, Hey1, Hey2 and Heyl, with the loss of N1icd generation. Interestingly, in the Mib1-/- mutants, Dll1 accumulated in the plasma membrane, while it was localized in the cytoplasm near the nucleus in the wild types, indicating that Mib1 is essential for the endocytosis of Notch ligand. In accordance with the pan-Notch defects in Mib1-/- embryos, Mib1 interacts with and regulates all of the Notch ligands, jagged 1 and jagged 2, as well as Dll1, Dll3 and Dll4. Our results show that Mib1 is an essential regulator, but not a potentiator, for generating functional Notch ligands to activate Notch signaling.
Tbx6 is a member of the T-box family of transcription factors. In the mouse, Tbx6 is expressed in the primitive streak, tail bud, and presomitic mesoderm and is essential for the specification of posterior paraxial mesoderm; in its absence, posterior somites are replaced by ectopic neural tubes. Analysis of embryos expressing reduced levels of Tbx6 also revealed that it is required for the correct patterning of the somites as well as their initial specification. As a first step toward identifying downstream targets of Tbx6, we examined the DNA binding properties of Tbx6 and identified a Tbx6 consensus binding site. Previously, we have shown that expression of Dll1, which encodes a Notch ligand, is lost in the Tbx6 mutant and that Tbx6 and Dll1 genetically interact, indicating that Dll1 may be a direct target of Tbx6 in the paraxial mesoderm. We uncovered four putative Tbx6 binding sites within a Dll1 paraxial mesoderm enhancer and show that Tbx6 can bind two of these sites in vitro. Altogether, these results lend further support for Dll1 being a direct target of Tbx6 in the presomitic mesoderm.
The Notch signaling pathway has pleiotropic functions during mammalian embryogenesis. It is required for the patterning and differentiation of the presomitic and somitic paraxial mesoderm and of the neural tube. We used DNA-chip expression profiling and 2D-gel electrophoresis combined with peptide mass fingerprinting to identify genes and proteins differentially regulated in E10.5 Dll1 (delta-like 1, Delta1) mutant embryos. The differential expression profiling approach identified 47 regulated transcripts and 40 differentially expressed proteins. The majority of these genes has until now not been associated with Notch signaling. Subsequent whole-mount in situ hybridization confirmed that a subset of the identified transcripts has restricted and distinct patterns of expression in E10.5 mouse embryos. For most genes these expression patterns were affected in the presomitic mesoderm, in differentiating somites of Dll1 mutant embryos and in the neural tube and cells differentiating from it. Similar effects were observed in embryos homozygous for the Headturner (Htu) and pudgy (pu) mutations, which are alleles of the Notch ligands Jag1 and Dll3. The regulated expression of a subset of the proteins was validated by immunoblots. Remarkably six of the proteins down-regulated in Dll1 mutant embryos are proteasome subunits. The large set of regulated genes identified in this differential expression profiling approach is an important resource for further functional studies.
Postmitotic neural precursors are generated in the ventricular zone (VZ) of the developing neural tube and immediately migrate to the mantle layer (ML) where they differentiate into mature neurons. Although the regulation of neuronal differentiation and migration has extensively been studied, the behavior of the early postmitotic precursors migrating toward the ML is largely unknown. In this study, we have identified Neph3 as a specific marker for early postmitotic neural precursors in the VZ of the developing spinal cord. Analysis of Neph3 localization by immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy revealed that early neural precursors in the VZ possessed not only pia-connected processes but also ones that reached the ventricle. This apical extension of processes was confirmed by analyzing another early postmitotic marker, Dll1 mRNA, which was actively transported toward the ventricle and accumulated at the termini of the processes. Furthermore, adherens junctions (AJs) were formed around the apical end of processes extending from Neph3- and Dll1 mRNA-positive postmitotic precursors. Taken together, these observations suggest that migrating early postmitotic neural precursors in the VZ of the developing spinal cord form a neuroepithelial cell-like bipolar morphology and communicate with their neighboring cells through AJs.
Delta-Notch signaling plays an essential role in cell fate determination in many tissue types, including the central nervous system. Although the signaling mechanism of Notch has been extensively studied, the behaviors of its ligands are not well understood. In the present study, we found that, in the developing neural tube, Dll1(Delta-like 1) was mainly localized on the processes extending from nascent neurons toward both the pia and the ventricle and accumulated at apical termini, where adherens junctions (AJs) were formed. To understand the mechanism of Dll1 localization, we searched for binding proteins for Dll1 and identified a scaffolding molecule, MAGI1. In the developing spinal cord, MAGI1 mRNA was highly expressed in the ventricular zone, where Dll1 mRNA was expressed. MAGI1 protein accumulated at the AJs formed around the termini of apically extending processes and was partially colocalized with Dll1. MAGI1 bound not only to Dll1 but also to N-cadherin-beta-catenin complexes. In cultured AJ-forming fibroblasts, MAGI1 was localized at AJs, and Dll1 was recruited to these AJs through binding to MAGI1. In addition, Dll1 was stabilized on the cell surface by MAGI1. Taken together, these results suggest that Dll1 is presented on the surface of AJs formed at the apical termini of processes through interaction with MAGI1 to activate Notch on neighboring cells in the developing central nervous system.
Susceptibility to the autoimmune disease type 1 diabetes has been linked to human chromosome 6q27 and, moreover, recently associated with one of the genes in the region, TATA box-binding protein (TBP). Using a much larger sample of T1D families than those studied by others, and by extensive re-sequencing of nine other genes in the proximity, in which we identified 279 polymorphisms, 83 of which were genotyped in up to 725 T1D multiplex and simplex families, we obtained no evidence for association of the TBP CAG/CAA (glutamine) microsatellite repeat sequence with disease, or for nine other genes, PDCD2, PSMB1, KIAA1838, DLL1, dJ894D12.4, FLJ25454, FLJ13162, FLJ11152, PHF10 and CCR6. This study also provides an exon-based tag single nucleotide polymorphism map for these 10 genes that can be used for analysis of other diseases.
Genomes of solid tumors are characterized by gains and losses of regions, which may contribute to tumorigenesis by altering gene expression. Often the aberrations are extensive, encompassing whole chromosome arms, which makes identification of candidate genes in these regions difficult. Here, we focused on narrow regions of gene amplification to facilitate identification of genetic pathways important in oral squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) development. We used array comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) to define minimum common amplified regions and then used expression analysis to identify candidate driver genes in amplicons that spanned <3 Mb. We found genes involved in integrin signaling (TLN1), survival (YAP1, BIRC2), and adhesion and migration (TLN1, LAMA3, MMP7), as well as members of the hedgehog (GLI2) and notch (JAG1, RBPSUH, FJX1) pathways to be amplified and overexpressed. Deregulation of these and other members of the hedgehog and notch pathways (HHIP, SMO, DLL1, NOTCH4) implicates deregulation of developmental and differentiation pathways, cell fate misspecification, in oral SCC development.
Wnt signaling, which is mediated by LEF1/TCF transcription factors, has been placed upstream of the Notch pathway in vertebrate somitogenesis. Here, we examine the molecular basis for this presumed hierarchy and show that a targeted mutation of Lef1, which abrogates LEF1 function and impairs the activity of coexpressed TCF factors, affects the patterning of somites and the expression of components of the Notch pathway. LEF1 was found to bind multiple sites in the Dll1 promoter in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, mutations of LEF1-binding sites in the Dll1 promoter impair expression of a Dll1-LacZ transgene in the presomitic mesoderm. Finally, the induced expression of LEF1-beta-catenin activates the expression of endogenous Dll1 in fibroblastic cells. Thus, Wnt signaling can affect the Notch pathway by a LEF1-mediated regulation of Dll1.
Notch signaling in the presomitic mesoderm (psm) is critical for somite formation and patterning. Here, we show that WNT signals regulate transcription of the Notch ligand Dll1 in the tailbud and psm. LEF/TCF factors cooperate with TBX6 to activate transcription from the Dll1 promoter in vitro. Mutating either T or LEF/TCF sites in the Dll1 promoter abolishes reporter gene expression in vitro as well as in the tail bud and psm of transgenic embryos. Our results indicate that WNT activity, in synergy with TBX6, regulates Dll1 transcription and thereby controls Notch activity, somite formation, and patterning.
We cloned the 5'-flanking region of the mouse homolog of the Delta gene (Dll1) and demonstrated that the sequence between nucleotide position -514 and -484 in the 5'-flanking region of Dll1 played a critical role in the regulation of its tissue-specific expression in neural stem cells (NSCs). Further, we showed that multiple POU-binding motifs, located within this short sequence of 30bp, were essential for transcriptional activation of Dll1 and also that multiple tissue-specific nuclear factors recognized these POU-binding motifs in various combinations through differentiation of NSCs. Thus, POU-binding factors may play an important role in Dll1 expression in developing NSCs.
Adrenocortical dysplasia (acd) is a spontaneous autosomal recessive mouse mutant with developmental defects in organs derived from the urogenital ridge. In surviving adult mutants, adrenocortical dysplasia and hypofunction are predominant features. Adults are infertile due to lack of mature germ cells, and 50% develop hydronephrosis due to ureteral hyperplasia. We report the identification of a splice donor mutation in a novel gene, which is the mouse ortholog of a newly discovered telomeric regulator. This gene (Acd) has recently been characterized as a novel component of the TRF1 protein complex that controls telomere elongation by telomerase. Characterization of Acd transcripts in mutant animals reveals two abnormal transcripts, consistent with a splicing defect. Expression of a wild-type Acd transgene in acd mutants rescues the observed phenotype. Most mutants die within 1-2 days of life on the original genetic background. Analysis of these mutant embryos reveals variable, yet striking defects in caudal specification, limb patterning and axial skeleton formation. In the tail bud, reduced expression of Wnt3a and Dll1 correlates with phenotypic severity of caudal regression. In the limbs, expression of Fgf8 is expanded in the dorsal-ventral axis of the apical ectodermal ridge and shortened in the anterior-posterior axis, consistent with the observed loss of anterior digits in older embryos. The axial skeleton of mutant embryos shows abnormal vertebral fusions in cervical, lumbar and caudal regions. This is the first report to show that a telomeric regulator is required for proper urogenital ridge differentiation, axial skeleton specification and limb patterning in mice.
Notch signaling is an evolutionary conserved pathway involved in intercellular signaling and essential for proper cell fate choices during development. Thus, it could be involved in mouse preimplantation development where intercellular signaling plays a crucial role, particularly between the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm of the blastocyst. At their face value, the phenotypes observed when disrupting each of the four Notch genes known in the mouse do not support this view as none of them involves perturbation of preimplantation development. However this could be due to functional redundancy and/or maternal expression. As a first step to address this issue, we decided to examine the expression in early development of various genes known to participate in Notch signaling. Here, we report on the expression pattern of Notch1-4, Jagged1 (Jag1), Jag2, Delta-like1 (Dll-1), Dll-3, Dll-4, Rbpsuh, Deltex1(Dtx1)and Dtx2 genes during preimplantation development from unfertilized eggs until late blastocyst stage using a RT-PCR strategy. We show that Notch1, 2, Jag1-2, Dll-3, Rbpsuh and Dtx2 transcripts are expressed at all stages. Notch4 and Dll-4 mRNAs are synthesized from the 2-cell through to the hatched blastocyst stage. Notch3, Dll-1 and Dtx1exhibit a stage dependent expression as their mRNAs are detected in 2-cell embryos and in hatched blastocysts, but are absent or weakly detected at the morula stage. Finally, we show that all the above genes are expressed both in Embryonic and Trophoblast Stem cells (ES and TS cells, respectively). Our results suggest that the Notch pathway may be active during mouse preimplantation development.
Notch signaling has been shown to play a pivotal role in inducing T lineage commitment. However, T cell progenitors are known to retain other lineage potential long after the first point at which Notch signaling is required. Thus, additional requirements for Notch signals and the timing of these events relative to intrathymic differentiation remain unknown. Here, we address this issue by culturing subsets of CD4 CD8 double negative (DN) thymocytes on control stromal cells or stromal cells expressing Delta-like 1 (Dll1). All DN subsets were found to require Notch signals to differentiate into CD4+ CD8+ T cells. Using clonal analyses, we show that CD44+ CD25+ (DN2) cells, which appeared committed to the T cell lineage when cultured on Dll1-expressing stromal cells, nonetheless gave rise to natural killer cells with a progenitor frequency similar to that of CD44+ CD25- (DN1) thymocytes when Notch signaling was absent. These data, together with the observation that Dll1 is expressed on stromal cells throughout the thymic cortex, indicates that Notch receptor-ligand interactions are necessary for induction and maintenance of T cell lineage specification at both the DN1 and DN2 stages of T cell development, suggesting that the Notch-induced repression of the B cell fate is temporally separate from Notch-induced commitment to the T lineage.
Author information:(1)Institute of Radiation Medicine, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing 100850, China.
Author information:(1)Department of Medical Genetics and Developmental Biology, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.
Previous studies on lymphomas suggested that the long arm of chromosome 6 harbors 1 or more tumor suppressor genes. This study analyzed the status of 25 microsatellite markers in 39 cases, including 9 nodal and 30 extranodal, of non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Thirty of the 39 cases (77%) showed abnormality in at least 1 of the markers. Of the 655 informative results, 135 (20%) were abnormal. These included 5 homozygous deletions, 91 allelic imbalances (AI), and 38 microsatellite instability. The 2 commonest regions of abnormality were mapped to 6q14.1 and 6q27. There was no significant difference in the frequency of these regional losses between nodal and extranodal lymphomas, B-or T-cell lineage, and association with Epstein-Barr virus. The first common deletion region at 6q14.1 is flanked by the HTR1B (5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1B) gene proximally and a novel unknown gene. AI in the region was found associated with loss of expression HTR1B by RT-PCR. The deletion region at 6q27 was narrowed to approximately 3Mb and maximal at marker D6S386. This locus includes the recently identified SMOC2 (secreted modular calcium-binding protein 2), AF6, and DLL1 (human delta-like 1 protein) genes. RT-PCR analyses of AF6 and DLL1 expression showed poor correlation with the AI results.
Author information:(1)Department of Microbiology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China. zhangruifu@263.net
Notch receptors and their ligands contribute to many developmental systems, but it is not apparent how they function after birth, as their null mutants develop severe defects during embryogenesis. Here we used the Cre-loxP system to delete the Delta-like 1 gene (Dll1) after birth and demonstrated the complete disappearance of splenic marginal zone B cells in Dll1-null mice. In contrast, T cell development was unaffected. These results demonstrated that Dll1 was dispensable as a ligand for Notch1 at the branch point of T cell-B cell development but was essential for the generation of marginal zone B cells. Thus, Notch signaling is essential for lymphocyte development in vivo, but there is a redundancy of Notch-Notch ligand signaling that can drive T cell development within the thymus.
Cerebellar granule cells (CGC) are the most abundant neurons in the mammalian brain, and an important tool for unraveling molecular mechanisms underlying neurogenesis. Math1 is a bHLH transcription activator that is essential for the genesis of CGC. To delineate the effects of Math1 on CGC differentiation, we generated and studied primary cultures of CGC progenitors from Math1/lacZ knockout mice. Rhombic lip precursors appeared properly positioned, expressed CGC-specific markers, and maintained Math1 promoter activity in vivo and in vitro, suggesting that Math1 is not essential for the initial stages of specification or survival of CGC. Moreover, the continuous activity of Math1 promoter in the absence of MATH1, indicated that MATH1 was not necessary for the activation of its own expression. After 6, but not 3, days in culture, Math1 promoter activity was downregulated in control cultures, but not in cells from Math1 null mice, thus implying that Math1 participates in a negative regulatory feedback loop that is dependent on increased levels of MATH1 generated through the positive autoregulatory feedback loop. In addition, Math1 null CGC did not differentiate properly in culture, and were unable to extend processes. All Notch signaling pathway receptors and ligands tested were expressed in the rhombic lip at embryonic date 14, with highest levels of Notch2 and Jag1. However, Math1-null rhombic lip cells presented conspicuous downregulation of Notch4 and Dll1. Moreover, of the two transcriptional repressors known to antagonize Math1, Hes5 (but not Hes1) was downregulated in Math1-null rhombic lip tissue and primary cultures, and was shown to bind MATH1, thus revealing a negative regulatory feedback loop. Taken together, our data demonstrate that CGC differentiation, but not specification, depends on Math1, which acts by regulating the level of multiple components of the Notch signaling pathway.
Normal development of the pituitary gland requires coordination between the maintenance of a progenitor cell pool and the selection of progenitor cells for differentiation. As Notch signaling controls progenitor cell differentiation in many embryonic tissues, we investigated the involvement of this important developmental pathway in the embryonic pituitary. We report that expression of Notch signaling genes is spatially and temporally regulated in pituitary embryogenesis and implicate Notch2 in the differentiation of several cell lineages. Notch2, Notch3, and Dll1 are initially expressed by most cells within the pituitary primordium and become restricted to a subset of the progenitor cell pool as differentiated pituitary cells begin to appear. Mutations in the transcription factor Prop1 interfere with pituitary growth and cell specification, although the mechanism is unknown. Notch2 expression is nearly absent in the developing pituitaries of Prop1 mutant mice, but unaltered in some other panhypopituitary mutants, revealing that Prop1 is directly or indirectly required for normal Notch2 expression. Transgenic overexpression of Prop1 is not sufficient for enhancement of endogenous Notch2 expression, indicating that there are multiple inputs into this pathway. Dll3 is expressed only in the presumptive corticotrope and melanotrope cells. Analysis of Dll3 null mutants indicates that Dll3 is not required for specification of these two cell types, although there may be functional overlap with Dll1. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of Notch signaling genes in the pituitary suggest overlapping roles in pituitary growth and cell specification.
Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a complex disease that may be linked to acinar cell apoptosis and inadequate acinar cell replacement. Differentiation of acinar cells is regulated by p48, a DNA binding subunit of the transcription factor PTF1, and the Notch signaling pathway. Acinar cell apoptosis is triggered by oxygen deprivation, ie, hypoxia, by activation of hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha). The aim of this study was to characterize by Northern blot analyses expression of HIF-1alpha, HIF-1alpha-inducible genes (GLUT-1, VEGF, p53), p48, and genes involved in the Notch signaling pathway (Notch-1, Dll1, RBP-Jk, HES-1) during cerulein-induced AP in mice. Maximal expression of HIF-1alpha, HIF-1alpha-inducible genes, p48, and Notch signaling genes occurred 8-12 hours after induction of AP. Maximal expression of p53 occurred 12-48 hours after induction of AP. These findings demonstrate that multiple pancreatic genes are activated acutely during AP that support pancreatic cell replenishment, regulation of expression of acinar cell-specific genes, and apoptosis.
Prostate cancer bone metastases are characterized by their ability to induce osteoblastic lesions and local bone formation. It has been suggested that bone metastatic prostate cancer cells are osteomimetic and capable of expressing genes and proteins typically expressed by osteoblasts. The ability of preosteoblasts to differentiate and express osteoblastic genes depends on several pathways, including Notch and MAPK. Here we show that notch1 expression is increased 4-5 times in C4-2B and MDA PCa 2b cells (osteoblastic skeletal prostate metastatic cancer cell lines) when compared with nonskeletal metastatic cell lines (LNCaP and DU145). Notch1 ligand, dll1, is expressed only in C4-2B cells. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrate that Notch1 is present in both human clinical samples from prostate cancer bone metastases and the C4-2B cell line. To determine whether prostate cancer bone metastases respond to osteogenic induction similar to osteoblasts, C4-2B cells were cultured in osteogenic medium that promotes mineralization. C4-2B cells mineralize and express HES-1 (a downstream target of Notch), an effect that is completely inhibited by L-685,458, a Notch activity inhibitor. Furthermore, osteogenic induction increases ERK activation, runx2 expression, and nuclear localization, independent of Notch signaling. Finally, we show that Notch and ERK activation are essential for Runx2 DNA binding activity and osteocalcin gene expression in C4-2B cells in response to osteogenic induction. These studies demonstrate that prostate cancer bone metastatic cell lines acquire osteoblastic properties through independent activation of ERK and Notch signaling; presumably, both pathways are activated in the bone microenvironment.
Notch is a transmembrane protein involved in cell fate determination. In the present study, we observed temporally and spatially restricted expression of Notch1 in developing cartilage. Notch1 was localized starting from the mesenchymal condensation stage of embryonic mouse forelimbs. Interestingly, although localization could not be detected in the proliferating chondrocytes, obvious immunoreactivity indicating its expression was retained in the perichondrial region. Next, we investigated the expression of Notch1 and related molecules in a chondrogenic cell line, ATDC5 cells. Notch1, Delta-like (Dll)1, Deltex2, and Deltex3 were coexpressed after 6-day insulin treatment. Expression of Hairy and Enhancer of split homologue (HES)-1 followed thereafter. These results suggest that Notch may have a role in the early stage of chondrogenesis. To assess the effect of Notch activation, we cultured ATDC5 cells with a myeloma clone constitutively expressing Dll1, a ligand of Notch. We also used an adenovirus vector to express the constitutively active Notch1 intracellular domain (NIC). Activating either the endogenous or exogenous Notch receptor dramatically inhibited chondrogenic cell differentiation of ATDC5 cells, as assessed by Alcian blue staining of the cells and chondrocyte differentiation markers. Last, we investigated the effect of NIC on the proliferation of the ATDC5 cells. Expression of NIC by the adenovirus strongly suppressed thymidine incorporation. These results indicate that Notch is expressed in the initial stage of chondrogenic cell differentiation and has a strong inhibitory effect on both differentiation and proliferation of the cells when activated. The expression of Notch decreases as chondrogenic differentiation proceeds; however, a population of the cells with sustained expression of Notch1 become perichondrial cells. Considering that the perichondrium acts as a stem cell source of osteoblasts and chondrocytes, Notch1 may have a role in the formation of these cells by suppressing both differentiation and proliferation.
The evolutionarily conserved Notch signal transduction pathway regulates cell fate and cellular differentiation in various tissues and has essential functions in embryonic patterning and tumorigenesis. Cell-cell signaling by the Notch pathway is mediated by the interaction of the transmembrane receptor Notch with its ligands Delta or Jagged presented on adjacent cells. Whereas signal transduction to Notch expressing cells has been described, it is unclear whether Delta-dependent signaling may exist within the Delta-expressing cell. Here, we report on the identification of Acvrinp1, a MAGUK family member, interacting with the intracellular domain of Delta1 (Dll1). We confirmed the interaction between Dll1 and Acvrinp1 by pull-down experiments in vitro and in a mammalian two-hybrid system in vivo. We delimited the fourth PDZ domain of Acvrinp1 and the PDZ-binding domain of Dll1 as major interacting domains. In situ expression analyses in mouse embryos revealed that Dll1 and Acvrinp1 show partly overlapping but distinct expression patterns, for example, in the central nervous system and the vibrissae buds. Further, we found that expression of Acvrinp1 is altered in Dll1 loss-of-function mouse embryos.
The interaction of neighboring cells via Notch signalling leads to cell fate determination, differentiation and patterning of highly organized tissues. Mice with targeted disruption of genes from the Notch signal transduction pathway display defects in the developing somites, neurogenic structures, blood vessels, heart and other organs. Recent studies have added requirements for Notch signalling during kidney, pancreas and thymus morphogenesis. Here, we describe the expression of all four receptors (Notch1-4), the five transmembrane ligands (Dll1, 3, 4, Jag1 and Jag2), intracellular effectors (the Hey genes) and extracellular modulators (Lfng, Mfng, Rfng) in the developing mouse metanephros. Our results point to a Lfng-dependent role for Notch signalling in the development of nephron segments, especially the proximal tubules.
Elaborate metamerism in vertebrate somitogenesis is based on segmental gene expression in the anterior presomitic mesoderm (PSM). Notch signal pathways with Notch ligands Dll1 and Dll3, and the transcription factor Mesp2 are implicated in the rostrocaudal patterning of the somite. We have previously shown that changes in the Mesp2 expression domain from a presumptive one somite into a rostral half somite results in differential activation of two types of Notch pathways, dependent or independent of presenilin 1 (Psen1), which is a Notch signal mediator. To further refine our hypothesis, we have analyzed genetic interactions between Dll1, Dll3, Mesp2 and Psen1, and elucidated the roles of Dll1- and Dll3-Notch pathways, with or without Psen1, in rostrocaudal patterning. Dll1 and Dll3 are co-expressed in the PSM and so far are considered to have partially redundant functions. We find in this study that positive and negative feedback loops comprising Dll1 and Mesp2 appear to be crucial for this patterning, and Dll3 may be required for the coordination of the Dll1-Mesp2 loop. Additionally, our epistatic analysis revealed that Mesp2 affects rostrocaudal properties more directly than Dll1 or Dll3. Finally, we find that Psen1 is involved differently in the regulation of rostral and caudal genes. Psen1 is required for Dll1-Notch signaling for activation of Dll1, while the Psen1-independent Dll3-Notch pathway may counteract the Psen1-dependent Dll1-Notch pathway. These observations suggest that Dll1 and Dll3 may have non-redundant, even counteracting functions. We conclude from our analyses that Mesp2 functions as a central mediator of such Notch pathways and regulates the gene expression required for rostrocaudal patterning of somites.
The Notch signaling pathway is involved in cell fate decisions during development. To explore the role of this signaling cascade in the taste system, we investigated the expression patterns of Notch signaling genes in fetal and adult mouse tongues using in situ hybridization. Three of the four murine Notch receptors, their ligands, Delta-like 1 (Dll-1), Jagged1, and Jagged2, as well as three transcription factors, Hes1, Hes6, and Mash1, are expressed in the embryonic taste epithelium. Expression is first detected in the circumvallate papilla at embryonic day E14.5, when Notch1, Jagged1, and Jagged2 are expressed broadly in the papilla and general lingual epithelium. In contrast, Mash1 and Hes6 are restricted to only a few epithelial cells in the apical region of the developing papilla. By E18.5, many of the genes now exhibit a bimodal expression pattern in the papillary epithelium: apically and dorsally they are expressed in sparse clusters of cells, while more ventrally expression typically occurs throughout the lower regions of the trenches. The extent of papilla innervation was compared with Mash1 and Hes6 expression. At E14.5, when Hes6 and Mash1 are already expressed in small numbers of epithelial cells, PGP9.5 immunoreactive fibers have not yet invaded the epithelium, consistent with the specification of taste bud primordia prior to nerve contact. All of the genes examined (except Notch2) are also expressed in subsets of cells within circumvallate taste buds in adult mice, although Notch1 is restricted to basal cells adjacent to taste buds. The onset of embryonic Notch associated gene expression after the morphological differentiation of the circumvallate papilla argues that this signaling cascade may specify taste receptor cell lineages within an already specified taste papilla. Similarly, Notch gene expression in adult taste buds suggests continued roles in cell lineage determination and cell turnover.
Notch signaling is involved in numerous cell fate decisions in invertebrates and vertebrates. The Notch receptor is a type I transmembrane (TM) protein that undergoes two proteolytic steps after ligand binding, first by an ADAM (a distintegrin and metalloprotease) in the extracellular region, followed by gamma-secretase-mediated cleavage inside the TM domain. We demonstrate here that the murine ligand Delta1 (Dll1) undergoes the same sequence of cleavages, in an apparently signal-independent manner. Identification of the ADAM-mediated shedding site localized 10 aa N-terminal to the TM domain has enabled us to generate a noncleavable mutant. Kuzbanian/ADAM10 is involved in this processing event, but other proteases can probably substitute for it. We then show that Dll1 is part of a high-molecular-weight complex containing presenilin1 and undergoes further cleavage by a gamma-secretase-like activity, therefore releasing the intracellular domain that localizes in part to the nucleus. Using the shedding-resistant mutant, we demonstrate that this gamma-secretase cleavage depends on prior ectodomain shedding. Therefore Dll1 is a substrate for regulated intramembrane proteolysis, and its intracellular region possibly fulfills a specific function in the nucleus.
Generation of left-right asymmetry is an integral part of the establishment of the vertebrate body plan. Here we show that the Notch signaling pathway plays a primary role in the establishment of left-right asymmetry in mice by directly regulating expression of the Nodal gene. Embryos mutant for the Notch ligand Dll1 or doubly mutant for the Notch1 and Notch2 receptors exhibit multiple defects in left-right asymmetry. Analysis of the enhancer regulating node-specific Nodal expression revealed the presence of binding sites for the RBP-J protein, the primary transcriptional mediator of Notch signaling. Mutation of these sites destroyed the ability of this enhancer to direct node-specific gene expression in transgenic mice. Our results demonstrate that Dll1-mediated Notch signaling is essential for generation of left-right asymmetry, and that the Notch pathway acts upstream of Nodal expression during left-right asymmetry determination in mice.
During vertebrate embryogenesis, paraxial mesoderm gives rise to somites, which subsequently develop into the dermis, skeletal muscle, ribs and vertebrae of the adult. Mutations that disrupt the patterning of individual somites have dramatic effects on these tissues, including fusions of the ribs and vertebrae. The T-box transcription factor, Tbx6, is expressed in the paraxial mesoderm but is downregulated as somites develop. It is essential for the formation of posterior somites, which are replaced with ectopic neural tubes in Tbx6-null mutant embryos. We show that partial restoration of Tbx6 expression in null mutants rescues somite development, but that rostrocaudal patterning within them is defective, ultimately resulting in rib and vertebral fusions, demonstrating that Tbx6 activity in the paraxial mesoderm is required not simply for somite specification but also for their normal patterning. Somite patterning is dependent upon Notch signaling and we show that Tbx6 genetically interacts with the Notch ligand, delta-like 1 (Dll1). Dll1 expression, which is absent in the Tbx6-null mutant, is restored at reduced levels in the partially rescued mutants, suggesting that Dll1 is a target of Tbx6. We also identify the spontaneous mutation rib-vertebrae as a hypomorphic mutation in Tbx6. The similarity in the phenotypes we describe here and that of some human birth defects, such as spondylocostal dysostosis, raises the possibility that mutations in Tbx6 or components of this pathway may be responsible for these defects.
We examined the role of Notch signaling on the generation of neurons and glia from neural stem cells by using neurospheres that are clonally derived from neural stem cells. Neurospheres prepared from Dll1(lacZ/lacZ) mutant embryos segregate more neurons at the expense of both oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. This mutant phenotype could be rescued when Dll1(lacZ/lacZ) spheres were grown and/or differentiated in the presence of conditioned medium from wild-type neurospheres. Temporal modulation of Notch by soluble forms of ligands indicates that Notch signaling acts in two steps. Initially, it inhibits the neuronal fate while promoting the glial cell fate. In a second step, Notch promotes the differentiation of astrocytes, while inhibiting the differentiation of both neurons and oligodendrocytes.
Axes formation is a fundamental process of early embryonic development. In addition to the anteroposterior and dorsoventral axes, the determination of the left-right axis is crucial for the proper morphogenesis of internal organs and is evolutionarily conserved in vertebrates. Genes known to be required for the normal establishment and/or maintenance of left-right asymmetry in vertebrates include, for example, components of the TGF-beta family of intercellular signalling molecules and genes required for node and midline function. We report that Notch signalling, which previously had not been implicated in this morphogenetic process, is required for normal left-right determination in mice. We show, that the loss-of-function of the delta 1 (Dll1) gene causes a situs ambiguous phenotype, including randomisation of the direction of heart looping and embryonic turning. The most probable cause for this left-right defect in Dll1 mutant embryos is a failure in the development of proper midline structures. These originate from the node, which is disrupted and deformed in Dll1 mutant embryos. Based on expression analysis in wild-type and mutant embryos, we suggest a model, in which Notch signalling is required for the proper differentiation of node cells and node morphology.
Regulatory proteins have been identified in embryonic development of the endocrine pancreas. It is unknown whether these factors can also play a role in the formation of pancreatic endocrine cells from postnatal nonendocrine cells. The present study demonstrates that adult human pancreatic duct cells can be converted into insulin-expressing cells after ectopic, adenovirus-mediated expression of the class B basic helix-loop-helix factor neurogenin 3 (ngn3), which is a critical factor in embryogenesis of the mouse endocrine pancreas. Infection with adenovirus ngn3 (Adngn3) induced gene and/or protein expression of NeuroD/beta2, Pax4, Nkx2.2, Pax6, and Nkx6.1, all known to be essential for beta-cell differentiation in mouse embryos. Expression of ngn3 in adult human duct cells induced Notch ligands Dll1 and Dll4 and neuroendocrine- and beta-cell-specific markers: it increased the percentage of synaptophysin- and insulin-positive cells 15-fold in ngn3-infected versus control cells. Infection with NeuroD/beta2 (a downstream target of ngn3) induced similar effects. These data indicate that the Delta-Notch pathway, which controls embryonic development of the mouse endocrine pancreas, can also operate in adult human duct cells driving them to a neuroendocrine phenotype with the formation of insulin-expressing cells.
The metalloprotease ADAM 10 is an important APP alpha-secretase candidate, but in vivo proof of this is lacking. Furthermore, invertebrate models point towards a key role of the ADAM 10 orthologues Kuzbanian and sup-17 in Notch signalling. In the mouse, this function is, however, currently attributed to ADAM 17/TACE, while the role of ADAM 10 remains unknown. We have created ADAM 10-deficient mice. They die at day 9.5 of embryogenesis with multiple defects of the developing central nervous system, somites, and cardiovascular system. In situ hybridization revealed a reduced expression of the Notch target gene hes-5 in the neural tube and an increased expression of the Notch ligand dll-1, supporting an important role for ADAM 10 in Notch signalling in the vertebrates as well. Since the early lethality precluded the establishment of primary neuronal cultures, APPs alpha generation was analyzed in embryonic fibroblasts and found to be preserved in 15 out of 17 independently generated ADAM 10-deficient fibroblast cell lines, albeit at a quantitatively more variable level than in controls, whereas a severe reduction was found in only two cases. The variability was not due to differences in genetic background or to variable expression of the alternative alpha-secretase candidates ADAM 9 and ADAM 17. These results indicate, therefore, either a regulation between ADAMs on the post-translational level or that other, not yet known, proteases are able to compensate for ADAM 10 deficiency. Thus, the observed variability, together with recent reports on tissue-specific expression patterns of ADAMs 9, 10 and 17, points to the existence of tissue-specific 'teams' of different proteases exerting alpha-secretase activity.
The Notch signaling pathway is important in regulating formation and anterior-posterior patterning of somites in vertebrate embryos. Here we show that distinct segmentation defects are displayed in embryos mutant for the Notch pathway genes Notch1, Lunatic fringe (Lfng), Delta-like 1 (Dll1), and Delta-like 3 (Dll3). Lfng-deficient mice and Dll3-deficient mice exhibit very similar defects, and marker analysis suggests that progression of the segmentation clock is disrupted in Dll3 mutants. We also show that Radical fringe (Rfng)-deficient mice exhibit no obvious phenotypic defects. To assess whether the absence of a phenotype in Rfng-deficient mice was the result of functional redundancy with the Lfng gene, we generated Lfng/Rfng double homozygous mutant mice. These mice exhibit the skeletal defects normally observed in Lfng-deficient mice, but we detected no obvious synergistic or additive effects in the double mutant animals.
A bHLH-type transcription factor, Mesp2, plays an essential role in somite segmentation in mice. Zebrafish mespb (mesp-b), a putative homologue of mouse Mesp2, is transiently expressed in the rostral presomitic mesoderm similarly to Mesp2. To determine whether zebrafish mespb is a functional homologue of mouse Mesp2, zebrafish mespb was introduced into the mouse Mesp2 locus by homologous recombination. Introduced mespb almost rescued the Mesp2 deficiency in the homozygous mespb knockin mouse, indicating that mespb is a functional homologue of mouse Mesp2. Segmented somites were clearly observed although the partial fusion of the vertebral columns still occurred. Interestingly, however, the nature and dosage of the mespb gene affected the rescue event. A mouse line, which has a hypomorphic Mesp2 allele generated by the introduction of neo-mespb, gave rise to an epithelial somite without normal rostrocaudal (RC) polarity. RC polarity was also lacking in the presomitic mesoderm. The defects in RC polarity were determined by the altered expressions of Uncx4.1 and Dll1 in the segmented somites and presomitic mesoderm, respectively. In contrast, the expression of EphA4 (Epha4), lunatic fringe or protocadherin, thought to be involved in segment border formation, was fairly normal in hypomorphic mutant embryos. These results suggest that the Mesp family of transcription factors is involved in both segment border formation and establishment of RC polarity through different genetic cascades.
We describe the characterization of a novel gain-of-function Arabidopsis mutant, dll1 (disease-like lesions1), which spontaneously develops lesions mimicking bacterial speck disease and constitutively expresses biochemical and molecular markers associated with pathogen infection. Despite the constitutive expression of defense-related responses, dll1 is unable to suppress the growth of virulent pathogens. However, dll1 elicits normal hypersensitive response in response to avirulent pathogens, thus indicating that dll1 is not defective in the induction of normal resistance responses. The lesion+ leaves of dll1 support the growth of hrcC mutant of Pseudomonas syringae, which is defective in the transfer of virulence factors into the plant cells, and therefore non-pathogenic to wild-type Col-0 plants. This suggests that dll1 intrinsically expresses many of the cellular processes that are required for pathogen growth during disease. Epistasis analyses reveal that salicylic acid and NPR1 are required for lesion formation, while ethylene modulates lesion development in dll1, suggesting that significant overlap exist between the signalling pathways leading to resistance- and disease-associated cell death. Our results suggest that host cell death during compatible interactions, at least in part, is genetically controlled by the plant and DLL1 may positively regulate this process.
Notch is a transmembrane protein that plays a critical role in the determination of cellular differentiation pathways. Although its importance in the development of mesenchymal tissues has been suggested, its role in skeletal tissues has not been well investigated. Northern blot experiments showed the expression of Notch1 in MC3T3-E1 osteoblastic cells at early differentiation stages. When a Notch1 cytoplasmic domain (Notch-IC [NIC]) delivered by an adenovirus vector was expressed in osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells, a significant increase in calcified nodule formation was observed in long-term cultures. Activation of endogenous Notch in MC3T3-E1 by coculturing them with Delta-like-1 (Dll1)-expressing myeloma cells also resulted in a stimulation of calcified nodule formation. Not only affecting nodule formation, Notch activation also had effects on osteoblastic differentiation of multipotent mesenchymal cells. Osteoblastic differentiation of C3H10T1/2 cells induced by bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP-2) was significantly stimulated, whereas adipogenic differentiation was suppressed strongly, resulting in a dominant differentiation of osteoblastic cells. NIC expression in primary human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) also induced both spontaneous and stimulated osteoblastic cell differentiation. These observations suggest that osteoblastic cell differentiation is regulated positively by Notch and that Notch could be a unique and interesting target molecule for the treatment of osteoporosis.
The paired box containing transcription factor Pax3 is a crucial regulator of dermomyotome and muscle development. However, the allelic series of Pax3/Splotch mutants also displays characteristic vertebral column malformations, which do not result from defective dorsoventral somite pattern. Rather, vertebral column and sclerotomal phenotypes are reminiscent of the phenotypes observed in the segmentation/somitogenesis mutants rachiterata and pudgy. Moreover, rostrocaudal somite pattern and somitic boundaries are disturbed in Splotch as monitored by the expression of Uncx4.1 and Lunatic fringe. Alterations in EphA4, Dll1, and Uncx4.1 expression are evident already in the condensing paraxial mesoderm, correlating with the first phase of Pax3 expression before and during somite formation. This finding suggests an early function of Pax3 during the formation of epithelial somites.
We have developed a presenilin-1 (PS1) conditional knockout mouse (cKO), in which PS1 inactivation is restricted to the postnatal forebrain. The PS1 cKO mouse is viable and exhibits no gross abnormalities. The carboxy-terminal fragments of the amyloid precursor protein differentially accumulate in the cerebral cortex of cKO mice, while generation of beta-amyloid peptides is reduced. Expression of Notch downstream effector genes, Hes1, Hes5, and Dll1, is unaffected in the cKO cortex. Although basal synaptic transmission, long-term potentiation, and long-term depression at hippocampal area CA1 synapses are normal, the PS1 cKO mice exhibit subtle but significant deficits in long-term spatial memory. These results demonstrate that inactivation of PS1 function in the adult cerebral cortex leads to reduced Abeta generation and subtle cognitive deficits without affecting expression of Notch downstream genes.
The murine Foxc1/Mf1 and Foxc2/Mfh1 genes encode closely related forkhead/winged helix transcription factors with overlapping expression in the forming somites and head mesoderm and endothelial and mesenchymal cells of the developing heart and blood vessels. Embryos lacking either Foxc1 or Foxc2, and most compound heterozygotes, die pre- or perinatally with similar abnormal phenotypes, including defects in the axial skeleton and cardiovascular system. However, somites and major blood vessels do form. This suggested that the genes have similar, dose-dependent functions, and compensate for each other in the early development of the heart, blood vessels, and somites. In support of this hypothesis, we show here that compound Foxc1; Foxc2 homozygotes die earlier and with much more severe defects than single homozygotes alone. Significantly, they have profound abnormalities in the first and second branchial arches, and the early remodeling of blood vessels. Moreover, they show a complete absence of segmented paraxial mesoderm, including anterior somites. Analysis of compound homozygotes shows that Foxc1 and Foxc2 are both required for transcription in the anterior presomitic mesoderm of paraxis, Mesp1, Mesp2, Hes5, and Notch1, and for the formation of sharp boundaries of Dll1, Lfng, and ephrinB2 expression. We propose that the two genes interact with the Notch signaling pathway and are required for the prepatterning of anterior and posterior domains in the presumptive somites through a putative Notch/Delta/Mesp regulatory loop.
The Delta/Notch signalling system is involved in several developmental processes. During fly neurogenesis, Delta expression defines the fate of neuronal precursors and inhibits neighboring Notch-expressing cells from acquiring a neural fate, a process known as lateral inhibition. In vertebrates, recent evidence demonstrates that Notch activation can positively determine cell fate and affect neuronal process extension. Nevertheless, Delta-like expression patterns during brain development are relatively unknown. Using a transgenic mouse, which expresses LacZ under the mDll1 promoter, we show by immunofluorescence that in the developing telencephalon mDll1 is expressed in undifferentiated cells in close contact with radial glial cells. Based on in situ hybridization data on mDll1 and mDll3 mRNA expression and on the immunohistochemical detection of beta-galactosidase in the Dll1-lacZ transgenic mouse, we suggest that mDll1 and mDll3 are involved in the establishment of the early cortical plate and that mDll1-expressing cells are in close contact with radial glial cells, thereby modulating the latter population, which is known to express Notch1. Furthermore, we suggest that the decrease in mDll1 mRNA found toward the end of gestation could be related, first, to the slowing of neurogenesis and, second, to the differentiation of the radial glial cell population into astrocytes.
Our previous studies showed that presenilin-1 (PS1) is required for murine neural and skeletal development. Here we report that the reduction in the neural progenitor cells observed in the PS1-/- mouse brain is due to premature differentiation of progenitor cells, rather than to increased apoptotic cell death or decreased cell proliferation. In the ventricular zone of PS1-/- mice, expression of the Notch1 downstream effector gene Hes5 is reduced, and expression of the Notch1 ligand Dll1 is elevated, indicating reduced Notch signaling. These results provide direct evidence that PS1 is involved in the regulation of neurogenesis and Notch signaling during development.
Vertebrate somitogenesis comprises the generation of a temporal periodicity, the establishment of anteroposterior compartment identity, and the translation of the temporal periodicity into the metameric pattern of somites. Molecular players at each of these steps are beginning to be identified. Especially, members of the Notch signaling cascade appear to be involved in setting up the somitogenesis clock and subsequent events. We had previously demonstrated specific expression of the mHey1 and mHey2 basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) factors during somitogenesis. Here we show that perturbed Notch signaling in Dll1 and Notch1 knockout mutants affects this expression in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM) and the somites. In the caudal PSM, however, mHey2 expression is maintained and thus is likely to be independent of Notch signaling. Furthermore, we analysed the dynamic expression of the respective chicken c-Hey1 and c-Hey2 genes during somitogenesis. Not only is c-Hey2 rhythmically expressed across the chicken presomitic mesoderm like c-hairy1, but its transcription is similarly independent of de novo protein synthesis. In contrast, the dynamic expression of c-Hey1 is restricted to the anterior segmental plate. Both c-Hey genes are coexpressed with c-hairy1 in the posterior somite half. Further in vitro and in vivo interaction assays demonstrated direct homo- and heterodimerisation between these hairy-related bHLH proteins, suggesting a combinatorial action in both the generation of a temporal periodicity and the anterior-posterior somite compartmentalisation.
Factors controlling the differentiation of the multipotent embryonic lung endoderm and mesoderm are poorly understood. Recent evidence that Delta-like 1 (Dll1) and other genes in the Notch/Delta signaling pathway are expressed in the embryonic mouse lung suggests that this pathway is important for cell fate decisions and/or the differentiation of lung cell types. Here, we report the localization of transcripts of several genes encoding members of the Notch/Delta pathway in the early mouse lung. Most genes are expressed in specific populations and so may contribute to cell diversification.
The recessive mouse mutant rib-vertebrae (rv) affects the morphogenesis of the axial skeleton. The phenotype is characterized by vertebral defects such as fusion of adjacent segments, hemivertebrae, or open neural arches and rib defects including fusions, forked ribs, and additional ribs. We have analyzed this mutant in detail and are able to show that defective somite patterning underlies the vertebral malformations. The rv mutation leads to an elongation of the presomitic mesoderm and a disruption of the anterior-posterior polarization of somites, as indicated by the abnormal expression of Pax1 and Mox1. Somites are irregular in size but the overall formation of somites appears unaffected. These changes are reminiscent of somite defects obtained in loss of function alleles of the Delta-Notch pathway. Expression of the Notch pathway components Delta-like-1 (Dll1) and lunatic fringe (Lfng) are altered in rv mutants. To investigate possible interactions of rv with components of the Notch pathway, we crossed rv into Dll1(lacZ). Double heterozygous (rv/+; Dll1(lacZ)/+) mice show vertebral defects and homozygous animals with one inactive Dll1 allele (rv/rv; Dll1(lacZ)/+) exhibit a dramatic increase in phenotypic severity, indicating that rv and Dll1 genetically interact. We have mapped rv to a region on chromosome 7 that is syntenic to human chromosomes 11p, 10q, and 11p. rv is phenotypically similar to human vertebral malformations syndromes and can serve as a model for these conditions.
To clarify the mechanisms that regulate neuroendocrine differentiation of fetal lung epithelia, we have studied the expression of the mammalian homologs of achaete-scute complex (Mash1) (Ascl1 - Mouse Genome Informatics); hairy and enhancer of split1 (Hes1); and the expression of Notch/Notch-ligand system in the fetal and adult mouse lungs, and in the lungs of Mash1- or Hes1-deficient mice. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that Mash1-positive cells seemed to belong to pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNEC) and their precursors. In mice deficient for Mash1, no PNEC were detected. Hes1-positive cells belong to non-neuroendocrine cells. In the mice deficient in Hes1, in which Mash1 mRNA was upregulated, PNEC appeared precociously, and the number of PNEC was markedly increased. NeuroD (Neurod1 - Mouse Genome Informatics) expression in the lung was detected in the adult, and was enhanced in the fetal lungs of Hes1-null mice. Expression of Notch1, Notch2, Notch3 and Notch4 mRNAs in the mouse lung increased with age, and Notch1 mRNA was expressed in a Hes1-dependent manner. Notch1, Notch2 and Notch3 were immunohistochemically detected in non-neuroendocrine cells. Moreover, analyses of the lungs from the gene-targeted mice suggested that expression of Delta-like 1 (Dll1 - Mouse Genome Informatics) mRNA depends on Mash1. Thus, the neuroendocrine differentiation depends on basic helix-loop-helix factors, and Notch/Notch-ligand pathways may be involved in determining the cell differentiation fate in fetal airway epithelium.
The Notch-signalling pathway is important in establishing metameric pattern during somitogenesis. In mice, the lack of either of two molecules involved in the Notch-signalling pathway, Mesp2 or presenilin-1 (Ps1), results in contrasting phenotypes: caudalized versus rostralized vertebra. Here we adopt a genetic approach to analyse the molecular mechanism underlying the establishment of rostro-caudal polarity in somites. By focusing on the fact that expression of a Notch ligand, Dll1, is important for prefiguring somite identity, we found that Mesp2 initiates establishment of rostro-caudal polarity by controlling two Notch-signalling pathways. Initially, Mesp2 activates a Ps1-independent Notch-signalling cascade to suppress Dll1 expression and specify the rostral half of the somite. Ps1-mediated Notch-signalling is required to induce Dll1 expression in the caudal half of the somite. Therefore, Mesp2- and Ps1-dependent activation of Notch-signalling pathways might differentially regulate Dll1 expression, resulting in the establishment of the rostro-caudal polarity of somites.
Rib-vertebrae (rv) is an autosomal recessive mutation in mouse that affects the morphogenesis of the vertebral column. Axial skeleton defects vary along the anterior-posterior body axis, and include split vertebrae and neural arches, and fusions of adjacent segments. Here, we show that defective somite patterning underlies the vertebral malformations and altered Notch signaling may contribute to the phenotype. Somites in affected regions are irregular in size and shape, epithelial morphology is disrupted, and anterior-posterior somite patterning is abnormal, reminiscent of somite defects obtained in loss-of-function alleles of Notch signaling pathway components. Expression of Dll1, Dll3, Lfng and Notch1 is altered in rv mutant embryos, and rv and Dll1(lacZ), a null allele of the Notch ligand Delta1, genetically interact. Mice double heterozygous for rv and Dll1(lacZ), show vertebral defects, and one copy of Dll1(lacZ) on the homozygous rv background enhances the mutant phenotype and is lethal in the majority of cases. However, fine genetic mapping places rv into an interval on chromosome seven that does not contain a gene encoding a known component of the Notch signaling pathway.
Mutations in Presenilin-1 (PS1) are a major cause of familial Alzheimer's disease. Our previous studies showed that PS1 is required for murine neural development. Here we report that lack of PS1 leads to premature differentiation of neural progenitor cells, indicating a role for PS1 in a cell fate decision between postmitotic neurons and neural progenitor cells. Neural proliferation and apoptotic cell death during neurogenesis are unaltered in PS1(-/-) mice, suggesting that the reduction in the neural progenitor cells observed in the PS1(-/-) brain is due to premature differentiation of progenitor cells, rather than to increased apoptotic cell death or decreased cell proliferation. In addition, the premature neuronal differentiation in the PS1(-/-) brain is associated with aberrant neuronal migration and disorganization of the laminar architecture of the developing cerebral hemisphere. In the ventricular zone of PS1(-/-) mice, expression of the Notch1 downstream effector gene Hes5 is reduced and expression of the Notch1 ligand Dll1 is elevated, whereas expression of Notch1 is unchanged. The level of Dll1 transcripts is also increased in the presomitic mesoderm of PS1(-/-) embryos, while the level of Notch1 transcripts is unchanged, in contrast to a previous report (Wong et al., 1997, Nature 387, 288-292). These results provide direct evidence that PS1 controls neuronal differentiation in association with the downregulation of Notch signalling during neurogenesis.
OBJECTIVE: Hematopoiesis is the process by which mature blood cell types are generated from a small population of pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells. How these cells undergo fate selection, however, is not fully understood. The Notch signaling system is known to mediate cell fate decisions of multipotent precursors in a wide range of complex animals throughout development. As Notch signaling involves cell-cell interactions, we sought to determine the expression of Notch receptors, ligands, and regulators in individual cell populations along the hematopoietic differentiation pathway.MATERIALS: Described here is a single cell RT-PCR analysis of Notch1, Notch3, Notch4, Notch ligands (Dll1 and Jagged1), and Fringe gene expression in cells of the blood system. As previously described, single cell globally amplified cDNA was generated by RT-PCR from various hematopoietic precursor cells whose potential was known from sibling analysis. A precursor hierarchy slot blot was created containing these cDNAs as well as samples from maturing blood cell populations and two fibroblast cell lines. The precursor slot blot was screened with probes for each of the candidate genes.RESULTS: Macrophage precursors expressed high levels of Notch1 transcript, while maturing macrophages expressed high levels of both Notch1 and Notch4. The Jagged 1 ligand transcript was highly expressed in terminally maturing cells including mast cells and megakaryocytes. In contrast, the Manic Fringe gene was highly expressed in uncommitted bi- and tri-potential precursors as well as in committed neutrophil and macrophage precursors.CONCLUSIONS: Distinct expression patterns of Jagged1 and Manic Fringe suggest that their corresponding proteins could regulate cell fate choices during hematopoiesis and may be responsible for regulating communication between lineage compartments during hematopoietic development.
The paraxial mesoderm of the neck and trunk of mouse embryos undergoes extensive morphogenesis in forming somites. Paraxial mesoderm is divided into segments, it elongates along its anterior posterior axis, and its cells organize into epithelia. Experiments were performed to determine if these processes are autonomous to the mesoderm that gives rise to the somites. Presomitic mesoderm at the tailbud stage was cultured in the presence and absence of its adjacent tissues. Somite segmentation occurred in the absence of neural tube, notochord, gut and surface ectoderm, and occurred in posterior fragments in the absence of anterior presomitic mesoderm. Mesodermal expression of Dll1 and Notch1, genes with roles in segmentation, was largely independent of other tissues, consistent with autonomous segmentation. However, surface ectoderm was found to be necessary for elongation of the mesoderm along the anterior-posterior axis and for somite epithelialization. To determine if there is specificity in the interaction between ectoderm and mesoderm, ectoderm from different sources was recombined with presomitic mesoderm. Surface ectoderm from only certain parts of the embryo supported somite epithelialization and elongation. Somite epithelialization induced by ectoderm was correlated with expression of the basic-helix-loop-helix gene Paraxis in the mesoderm. This is consistent with the genetically defined requirement for Paraxis in somite epithelialization. However, trunk ectoderm was able to induce somite epithelialization in the absence of strong Paraxis expression. We conclude that somitogenesis consists of autonomous segmentation patterned by Notch signaling and nonautonomous induction of elongation and epithelialization by surface ectoderm.
This review focuses on the current knowledge about the function of the EGF-like homeotic protein dlk. dlk is a transmembrane protein that possesses six Epidermal Growth Factor-like sequences at the extracellular domain, a single transmembrane domain and a short intracellular tail. Because of its overall structure and amino acid homology, dlk belongs to the EGF-like homeotic protein family. This family includes proteins such as the Notch receptor and its homologues, as well as Notch ligands, such as Delta, Serrate, and their mammalian homologues Dll1, Dll2 and Dll3 and Jagged 1 and Jagged 2. (For a recent review see Fleming, 1998). dlk is highly expressed by preadipose cell lines, and neuroendocrine tumors, such as pheochromocytomas and neuroblastomas. dlk has been involved in several differentiation processes, such as adipogenesis, hematopoiesis and B cell lymphopoiesis, and neuroendocrine differentiation, including the differentiation of pancreas and the adrenal gland. The extracellular region of dlk can be released by action of an unknown protease and this soluble dlk variant accumulates in the amniotic fluid and is able to inhibit adipocyte differentiation in vitro. Recent evidence indicates, however, that membrane-associated dlk variants play a positive role in the differentiation process. These findings suggest that dlk plays an important role in differentiation and tumorigenesis of several cellular types.
Genetic studies in worms, flies, and humans have implicated the presenilins in the regulation of the Notch signaling pathway and in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease. There are two highly homologous presenilin genes in mammals, presenilin 1 (PS1) and presenilin 2 (PS2). In mice, inactivation of PS1 leads to developmental defects that culminate in a perinatal lethality. To test the possibility that the late lethality of PS1-null mice reflects genetic redundancy of the presenilins, we have generated PS2-null mice by gene targeting, and subsequently, PS1/PS2 double-null mice. Mice homozygous for a targeted null mutation in PS2 exhibit no obvious defects; however, loss of PS2 on a PS1-null background leads to embryonic lethality at embryonic day 9.5. Embryos lacking both presenilins, and surprisingly, those carrying only a single copy of PS2 on a PS1-null background, exhibit multiple early patterning defects, including lack of somite segmentation, disorganization of the trunk ventral neural tube, midbrain mesenchyme cell loss, anterior neuropore closure delays, and abnormal heart and second branchial arch development. In addition, Delta like-1 (Dll1) and Hes-5, two genes that lie downstream in the Notch pathway, were misexpressed in presenilin double-null embryos: Hes-5 expression was undetectable in these mice, whereas Dll1 was expressed ectopically in the neural tube and brain of double-null embryos. We conclude that the presenilins play a widespread role in embryogenesis, that there is a functional redundancy between PS1 and PS2, and that both vertebrate presenilins, like their invertebrate homologs, are essential for Notch signaling.
The pancreas contains both exocrine and endocrine cells, but the molecular mechanisms controlling the differentiation of these cell types are largely unknown. Despite their endodermal origin, pancreatic endocrine cells share several molecular characteristics with neurons, and, like neurons in the central nervous system, differentiating endocrine cells in the pancreas appear in a scattered fashion within a field of progenitor cells. This indicates that they may be generated by lateral specification through Notch signalling. Here, to test this idea, we analysed pancreas development in mice genetically altered at several steps in the Notch signalling pathway. Mice deficient for Delta-like gene 1 (Dll1) or the intracellular mediator RBP-Jkappa showed accelerated differentiation of pancreatic endocrine cells. A similar phenotype was observed in mice over-expressing neurogenin 3 (ngn 3) or the intracellular form of Notch3 (a repressor of Notch signalling). These data provide evidence that ngn3 acts as proendocrine gene and that Notch signalling is critical for the decision between the endocrine and progenitor/exocrine fates in the developing pancreas.
Cell-to-cell communication mediated by the evolutionary conserved Notch signalling pathway regulates cell fate decisions and patterning in various tissues in diverse organisms (Artavanis-Tsakonas et al., 1995, Science 268, 225-232). Signalling between neighboring cells is transduced by binding of DSL and Notch proteins which interact as ligand (DSL) and receptor (Notch). Mouse Delta1 (delta-like 1; Dll1) encodes one of the four known mammalian DSL proteins and is essential for normal somitogenesis and neuronal differentiation. Here, we describe Delta1 expression during organogenesis and fetal development using the highly sensitive histochemical detection of the lacZ gene product expressed from a targeted Delta1:lacZ knock-in allele (Dll1(lacZ)). We find that Delta1 is expressed in epithelial ducts of several organs, skeletal and smooth muscles, the central nervous system, as well as some sensory epithelia.
BACKGROUND: The process of somitogenesis can be divided into three major events: the prepatterning of the mesoderm; the formation of boundaries between the prospective somites; and the cellular differentiation of the somites. Expression and functional studies have demonstrated the involvement of the murine Notch pathway in somitogenesis, although its precise role in this process is not yet well understood. We examined the effect of mutations in the Notch pathway elements Delta like 1 (Dll1), Notch1 and RBPJkappa on genes expressed in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM) and have defined the spatial relationships of Notch pathway gene expression in this region.RESULTS: We have shown that expression of Notch pathway genes in the PSM overlaps in the region where the boundary between the posterior and anterior halves of two consecutive somites will form. The Dll1, Notch1 and RBPJkappa mutations disrupt the expression of Lunatic fringe (L-fng), Jagged1, Mesp1, Mesp2 and Hes5 in the PSM. Furthermore, expression of EphA4, mCer 1 and uncx4.1, markers for the anterior-posterior subdivisions of the somites, is down-regulated to different extents in Notch pathway mutants, indicating a global alteration of pattern in the PSM.CONCLUSIONS: We propose a model for the mechanism of somite border formation in which the activity of Notch in the PSM is restricted by L-fng to a boundary-forming territory in the posterior half of the prospective somite. In this region, Notch function activates a set of genes that are involved in boundary formation and anterior-posterior somite identity.
Previous studies have shown that mice mutant for the gene Mash1 display severe neuronal losses in the olfactory epithelium and ganglia of the autonomic nervous system, demonstrating a role for Mash1 in development of neuronal lineages in the peripheral nervous system. Here, we have begun to analyse Mash1 function in the central nervous system, focusing our studies on the ventral telencephalon where it is expressed at high levels during neurogenesis. Mash1 mutant mice present a severe loss of progenitors, particularly of neuronal precursors in the subventricular zone of the medial ganglionic eminence. Discrete neuronal populations of the basal ganglia and cerebral cortex are subsequently missing. An analysis of candidate effectors of Mash1 function revealed that the Notch ligands Dll1 and Dll3, and the target of Notch signaling Hes5, fail to be expressed in Mash1 mutant ventral telencephalon. In the lateral ganglionic eminence, loss of Notch signaling activity correlates with premature expression of a number of subventricular zone markers by ventricular zone cells. Therefore, Mash1 is an important regulator of neurogenesis in the ventral telencephalon, where it is required both to specify neuronal precursors and to control the timing of their production.
The NEUROGENINS (NGNs) are neural-specific basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors. Mouse embryos lacking ngn1 fail to generate the proximal subset of cranial sensory neurons. ngn1 is required for the activation of a cascade of downstream bHLH factors, including NeuroD, MATH3, and NSCL1. ngn1 is expressed by placodal ectodermal cells and acts prior to neuroblast delamination. Moreover, NGN1 positively regulates the Delta homolog DLL1 and can be negatively regulated by Notch signaling. Thus, ngn1 functions similarly to the proneural genes in Drosophila. However, the initial pattern of ngn1 expression appears to be Notch independent. Taken together with the fact that ectopic ngn1 expression can convert ectodermal cells to neurons in Xenopus (Ma et al., 1996), these data and those of Fode et al. (1998 [this issue of Neuron]) identify ngns as vertebrate neuronal determination genes, analogous to myoD and myf5 in myogenesis.
 During vertebrate embryonic development, pairs of metameric units, the somites, bud off at the cranial end of the paraxial mesoderm. The somites soon obtain cranio-caudal and dorso-ventral polarity. Establishment of dorso-ventral and medio-lateral polarity depends on multiple signals from the notochord, neural tube surface ectoderm and lateral mesoderm. The establishment of cranio-caudal polarity in the somite is less well understood. One molecule involved is the Dll1 gene product, a transmembrane protein expressed in the unsegmented paraxial mesoderm and in the caudal half of the somites. We have identified a gene, Uncx4.1, expressed in the caudal half of newly formed somites. It encodes a protein belonging to the paired-related class of homeodomain transcription factors. Uncx4.1 expression is first detected in the entire caudal half of the somites, is later down-regulated in the myotome and dermatome, and is maintained in the caudal sclerotome and its derivatives from which part of the vertebral column will form. Thus, Uncx4.1 may be involved in the establishment and maintenance of segment polarity and in vertebral column formation. Uncx4.1 is also expressed in the first branchial arch, the meso- and metanephric kidney, the central nervous system and the first digit of the forelimb, suggesting control functions of Uncx4.1 in multiple processes of embryogenesis.
Mouse delta-like 3 (Dll3), a novel vertebrate homologue of the Drosophila gene Delta was isolated by a subtracted library screen. In Drosphila, the Delta/Notch signalling pathway functions in many situations in both embryonic and adult life where cell fate specification occurs. In addition, a patterning role has been described in the establishment of the dorsoventral compartment boundary in the wing imaginal disc. Dll3 is the most divergent Delta homologue identified to date. We confirm that Dll3 can inhibit primary neurogenesis when ectopically expressed in Xenopus, suggesting that it can activate the Notch receptor and therefore is a functional Delta homologue. An extensive expression study during gastrulation and early organogenesis in the mouse reveals a diverse and dynamic pattern of expression. The three major sites of expression implicate Dll3 in somitogenesis and neurogenesis and in the production of tissue from the primitive streak and tailbud. A careful comparison of Dll3 and Dll1 expression by double RNA in situ hybridisation demonstrates that these genes have distinct patterns of expression, but implies that together they operate in many of the same processes. We postulate that during somitogenesis Dll3 and Dll1 coordinate in establishing the intersomitic boundaries. We confirm that, during neurogenesis in the spinal cord, Dll1 and Dll3 are expressed by postmitotic cells and suggest that expression is sequential such that cells express Dll1 first followed by Dll3. We hypothesise that Dll1 is involved in the release of cells from the precursor population and that Dll3 is required later to divert neurons along a specific differentiation pathway.
We isolated a novel bHLH protein gene Mesp2 (for mesoderm posterior 2) that cross-hybridizes with Mesp1 expressed in the early mouse mesoderm. Mesp2 is expressed in the rostral presomitic mesoderm, but down-regulated immediately after the formation of the segmented somites. To determine the function of MesP2 protein (MesP2) in somitogenesis, we generated Mesp2-deficient mice by gene targeting. The homozygous Mesp2 (-/-) mice died shortly after birth and had fused vertebral columns and dorsal root ganglia, with impaired sclerotomal polarity. The earliest defect in the homozygous embryos was a lack of segmented somites. Their disruption of the metameric features, altered expression of Mox-1, Pax-1, and Dll1, and lack of expression of Notch1, Notch2, and FGFR1 suggested that MesP2 controls sclerotomal polarity by regulating the signaling systems mediated by notch-delta and FGF, which are essential for segmentation.
Approximately 10% of cases of Alzheimer's disease are familial and associated with autosomal dominant inheritance of mutations in genes encoding the amyloid precursor protein, presenilin 1 (PS1) and presenilin 2 (PS2). Mutations in PS1 are linked to about 25% of cases of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. PS1, which is endoproteolytically processed in vivo, is a multipass transmembrane protein and is a functional homologue of SEL-12, a Caenorhabditis elegans protein that facilitates signalling mediated by the Notch/LIN-12 family of receptors. To examine potential roles for PS1 in facilitating Notch-mediated signalling during mammalian embryogenesis, we generated mice with targeted disruptions of PS1 alleles (PS1-/- mice). PS1-/- embryos exhibited abnormal patterning of the axial skeleton and spinal ganglia, phenotypes traced to defects in somite segmentation and differentiation. Moreover, expression of mRNA encoding Notch1 and Dll1 (delta-like gene 1), a vertebrate Notch ligand, is markedly reduced in the presomitic mesoderm of PS1-/- embryos compared to controls. Hence, PS1 is required for the spatiotemporal expression of Notch1 and Dll1, which are essential for somite segmentation and maintenance of somite borders.
During vertebrate embryonic development, the paraxial mesoderm is subdivided into metameric subunits called somites. The arrangement and cranio-caudal polarity of the somites governs the metamerism of all somite-derived tissues and spinal ganglia. Little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying somite formation, segment polarity, maintenance of segment borders, and the interdependency of these processes. The mouse Delta homologue Dll1, a member of the DSL gene family, is expressed in the presomitic mesoderm and posterior halves of somites. Here we report that, in Dll1-deficient mouse embryos, a primary metameric pattern is established in mesoderm, and cytodifferentiation is apparently normal, but the segments have no cranio-caudal polarity, and no epithelial somites form. Caudal sclerotome halves do not condense, and the pattern of spinal ganglia and nerves is perturbed, indicating loss of segment polarity. Myoblasts span segment borders, demonstrating that these borders are not maintained. These results show that Dll1 is involved in compartmentalization of somites, that dermomyotome and sclerotome differentiation are independent of formation of epithelia and subdivision of somites in cranial and caudal halves, and that compartmentalization is essential for the maintenance of segment borders in paraxial mesoderm-derived structures.
The Notch pathway functions in multiple cell fate determination processes in invertebrate embryos, including the decision between the neuroblast and epidermoblast lineages in Drosophila. In the mouse, targeted mutation of the Notch pathway genes Notch1 and RBP-Jk has demonstrated a role for these genes in somite segmentation, but a function in neurogenesis and in cell fate decisions has not been shown. Here we show that these mutations lead to altered expression of the Notch signalling pathway homologues Hes-5, Mash-1 and Dll1, resulting in enhanced neurogenesis. Precocious neuronal differentiation is indicated by the expanded expression domains of Math4A, neuroD and NSCL-1. The RBP-Jk mutation has stronger effects on expression of these genes than does the Notch1 mutation, consistent with functional redundancy of Notch genes in neurogenesis. Our results demonstrate conservation of the Notch pathway and its regulatory mechanisms from fly to mouse, and support a role for the murine Notch signalling pathway in the regulation of neural stem cell differentiation.
The Drosophila Delta (Dl) gene is essential for cell-cell communication regulating the determination of various cell fates during development. Dl encodes a transmembrane protein, which contains tandem arrays of epidermal-growth-factor-like repeats in the extracellular domain and directly interacts with Notch, another transmembrane protein with similar structural features, in a ligand-receptor-like manner. Similarly, cell-cell interactions involving Delta-like and Notch-like proteins are required for cell fate determinations in C. elegans. Notch homologues were also isolated from several vertebrate species, suggesting that cell-to-cell signaling mediated by Delta- and Notch-like proteins could also underlie cell fate determination during vertebrate development. However, in vertebrates, no Delta homologues have yet been described. We have isolated a novel mouse gene, Dll1 (delta-like gene 1), which maps to the mouse t-complex and whose deduced amino acid sequence strongly suggests that Dll1 represents a mammalian gene closely related to Drosophila Delta. Dll1 is transiently expressed during gastrulation and early organogenesis, and in a tissue-restricted manner in adult animals. Between day 7 and 12.5 of development, expression was detected in the paraxial mesoderm, closely correlated with somitogenesis, and in subsets of cells in the nervous system. In adult animals, transcripts were detected in lung and heart. Dll1 expression in the paraxial mesoderm and nervous system is strikingly similar to the expression of mouse Notch1 during gastrulation and early organogenesis. The overlapping expression patterns of the Dll1 and Notch1 genes suggest that cells in these tissues can communicate by interaction of the Dll1 and Notch1 proteins. Our results support the idea that Delta- and Notch-like proteins are involved in cell-to-cell communication in mammalian embryos and suggest a role for these proteins in cellular interactions underlying somitogenesis and development of the nervous system.
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to isolated five Xenopus homeobox clones (X-dll1 to 5) that are related to the Drosophila Distal-less (Dll) gene and we propose a subdivision of the vertebrate distal-less gene family according to sequence similarities. cDNA clones were isolated for X-dll2, 3 and 4, and their expression was studied by RNase protection and in situ hybridization. X-dll2, which belongs to a separate subfamily than X-dll3 and 4, is not expressed in the neural ectoderm. X-dll3 and X-dll4, which belong to the same subfamily, have a similar but not identical pattern of expression that is restricted to anterior ectodermal derivatives, namely the ventral forebrain, the cranial neural crest and the cement gland. X-dll3 is also expressed in the olfactory and otic placodes while X-dll4 is expressed in the developing eye. X-dll3 differs from the other Xenopus genes and the previously isolated Dll-related mouse genes, in that localized expression can be detected by in situ hybridization very early in development, in the anterior-transverse ridge of the open neural plate. Based on that early expression pattern, we suggest that X-dll3 marks the rostral-most part of the neural plate, which gives rise to the ventral forebrain. Finally, we have used these Xenopus distal-less genes to show that the anterior neural plate can be induced by signals that spread within the plane of neural ectoderm, indicating that at least the initial steps of forebrain development do not require signals from underlying mesoderm.
