The RNA-binding protein DEAD-box protein 5 (DDX5) is a polyfunctional regulator of gene expression, but its role in CD8+ T cell biology has not been extensively investigated. In this study, we demonstrate that deletion of DDX5 in murine CD8+ T cells reduced the differentiation of terminal effector, effector memory T, and terminal effector memory cells while increasing the generation of central memory T cells, whereas forced expression of DDX5 elicited the opposite phenotype. DDX5-deficient CD8+ T cells exhibited increased expression of genes that promote central memory T cell differentiation, including Tcf7 and Eomes. Taken together, these findings reveal a role for DDX5 in regulating the differentiation of effector and memory CD8+ T cell subsets in response to microbial infection.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are implicated in a plethora of cellular processes, but an in-depth understanding of their functional features or their mechanisms of action is currently lacking. Here we study Meteor, a lncRNA transcribed near the gene encoding EOMES, a pleiotropic transcription factor implicated in various processes throughout development and in adult tissues. Using a wide array of perturbation techniques, we show that transcription elongation through the Meteor locus is required for Eomes activation in mouse embryonic stem cells, with Meteor repression linked to a change in the subpopulation primed to differentiate to the mesoderm lineage. We further demonstrate that a distinct functional feature of the locus-namely, the underlying DNA element-is required for suppressing Eomes expression following neuronal differentiation. Our results demonstrate the complex regulation that can be conferred by a single locus and emphasize the importance of careful selection of perturbation techniques when studying lncRNA loci.
The role of Natural killer (NK) cells during kidney allograft antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) is increasingly recognized, but an in-depth characterization of mechanisms that contribute to such immune response is still under investigation. Here, we characterized phenotypic, functional, and transcriptomic profiles of peripheral blood circulating and allograft infiltrating CD56dimCD16bright NK cells during anti-HLA donor-specific antibody (DSA)+ ABMR. Cross-sectional analyses performed in 71 kidney transplant recipients identified a unique phenotypic circulating CD56dimCD16bright NK cell cluster expanded in DSA+ ABMR. This cluster co-expressed high levels of the interleukin-21 Receptor (IL-21R); Type-1 transcription factors T-bet and EOMES, CD160 and natural killer group 2D cytotoxic and activating co-stimulatory receptors. CD160+ IL-21R+ NK cells correlated with elevated plasma IL-21, Ki-67+ ICOS+ (CD278) IL-21-producing circulating T follicular helper cells, enhanced Type-1 pro-inflammatory cytokines, NK cell cytotoxicity, worse microvascular inflammation and graft loss. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis of circulating NK cells delineated an expanded cluster in DSA+ ABMR characterized by elevated pro-inflammatory/cytotoxic pathways, IL-21/STAT3 signaling, and leukocyte trans-endothelial migration pathways. Infiltration of CD160+ IL-21R+ NK cells with similar transcriptomic profile was detected in DSA+ ABMR allograft biopsies, potentially contributing to allograft injury. Thus, the IL-21/IL-21R axis, linking adaptive and innate humoral allo-immunity, or NK cells may represent appealing immunotherapy targets in DSA+ ABMR.
Chronic Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection after pediatric organ transplantation (Tx) accounts for significant morbidity and mortality. The risk of complications, such as post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders in high viral load (HVL) carriers, is the highest in heart Tx recipients. However, the immunological signatures of such risk have been insufficiently defined. Here, we assessed phenotypic, functional, and transcriptomic profiles of peripheral blood CD8+/CD4+T cells, including EBV-specific T cells in 77 pediatric heart, kidney, and liver Tx recipients, and established the relationship between memory differentiation and progression toward exhaustion. Unlike kidney and liver HVL carriers, heart HVL carriers displayed distinct CD8+T cells with (i) up-regulation of IL-21R, (ii) decreased naïve phenotype and altered memory differentiation, (iii) accumulation of terminally exhausted (TEX PD-1+T-bet-Eomes+) and decrease of functional precursors of exhausted (TPEX PD-1intT-bet+) effector subsets, and (iv) transcriptomic signatures supporting the phenotypic changes. In addition, CD4+T cells from heart HVL carriers displayed similar changes in naive and memory subsets, elevated Th1 follicular helper cells and plasma IL-21, suggesting an alternative inflammatory mechanism that governs T cell responses in heart Tx recipients. These results may explain the different incidences of EBV complications and may help improve risk-stratification and clinical management of different types of Tx recipients.
Cardiac lineage specification in the mouse is controlled by TGFβ and WNT signaling. From fly to fish, BMP has been identified as an indispensable heart inducer. A detailed analysis of the role of Bmp4 and its effectors Smad1/5, however, was still missing. We show that Bmp4 induces cardiac mesoderm formation in murine embryonic stem cells in vitro. Bmp4 first activates Wnt3 and upregulates Nodal. pSmad1/5 and the WNT effector Tcf3 form a complex, and together with pSmad2/3 activate mesoderm enhancers and Eomes. They then cooperate with Eomes to consolidate the expression of many mesoderm factors, including T. Eomes and T form a positive- feedback loop and open additional enhancers regulating early mesoderm genes, including the transcription factor Mesp1, establishing the cardiac mesoderm lineage. In parallel, the neural fate is suppressed. Our data confirm the pivotal role of Bmp4 in cardiac mesoderm formation in the mouse. We describe in detail the consecutive and cooperative actions of three signaling pathways, BMP, WNT and Nodal, and their effector transcription factors, during cardiac mesoderm specification.
DOI: 10.1101/2023.04.07.536026PMCID: PMC10104143PMID: 37066336
BACKGROUND: Extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (NKTL) is an aggressive type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma with dismal outcome. A better understanding of disease biology and key oncogenic process is necessary for the development of targeted therapy. Super-enhancers (SEs) have been shown to drive pivotal oncogenes in various malignancies. However, the landscape of SEs and SE-associated oncogenes remain elusive in NKTL.METHODS: We used Nano-ChIP-seq of the active enhancer marker histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation (H3K27ac) to profile unique SEs NKTL primary tumor samples. Integrative analysis of RNA-seq and survival data further pinned down high value, novel SE oncogenes. We utilized shRNA knockdown, CRISPR-dCas9, luciferase reporter assay, ChIP-PCR to investigate the regulation of transcription factor (TF) on SE oncogenes. Multi-color immunofluorescence (mIF) staining was performed on an independent cohort of clinical samples. Various function experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of TOX2 on the malignancy of NKTL in vitro and in vivo.RESULTS: SE landscape was substantially different in NKTL samples in comparison with normal tonsils. Several SEs at key transcriptional factor (TF) genes, including TOX2, TBX21(T-bet), EOMES, RUNX2, and ID2, were identified. We confirmed that TOX2 was aberrantly overexpressed in NKTL relative to normal NK cells and high expression of TOX2 was associated with worse survival. Modulation of TOX2 expression by shRNA, CRISPR-dCas9 interference of SE function impacted on cell proliferation, survival and colony formation ability of NKTL cells. Mechanistically, we found that RUNX3 regulates TOX2 transcription by binding to the active elements of its SE. Silencing TOX2 also impaired tumor formation of NKTL cells in vivo. Metastasis-associated phosphatase PRL-3 has been identified and validated as a key downstream effector of TOX2-mediated oncogenesis.CONCLUSIONS: Our integrative SE profiling strategy revealed the landscape of SEs, novel targets and insights into molecular pathogenesis of NKTL. The RUNX3-TOX2-SE-TOX2-PRL-3 regulatory pathway may represent a hallmark of NKTL biology. Targeting TOX2 could be a valuable therapeutic intervene for NKTL patients and warrants further study in clinic.
The proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexins (PCSKs) regulate biological actions by cleaving immature substrate proteins. The archetype PCSK, FURIN, promotes the pathogenicity of viruses by proteolytically processing viral proteins. FURIN has also important regulatory functions in both innate and adaptive immune responses but its role in the CD8+ CTLs remains enigmatic. We used a T-cell-specific FURIN deletion in vivo to demonstrate that FURIN promotes host response against the CTL-dependent lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus by virtue of restricting viral burden and augmenting interferon gamma (IFNG) production. We also characterized Furin KO CD8+ T cells ex vivo, including after their activation with FURIN regulating cytokines IL12 or TGFB1. Furin KO CD8+ T cells show an inherently activated phenotype characterized by the upregulation of effector genes and increased frequencies of CD44+ , TNF+ , and IFNG+ cells. In the activated CTLs, FURIN regulates the productions of IL2, TNF, and GZMB and the genes associated with the TGFBR-signaling pathway. FURIN also controls the expression of Eomes, Foxo1, and Bcl6 and the levels of ITGAE and CD62L, which implies a role in the development of CTL memory. Collectively, our data suggest that the T-cell expressed FURIN is important for host responses in viral infections, CTL homeostasis/activation, and memory development.
INTRODUCTION: Most T lymphocytes, including regulatory T cells, express the CD27 costimulatory receptor in steady state conditions. There is evidence that CD27 engagement on conventional T lymphocytes favors the development of Th1 and cytotoxic responses in mice and humans, but the impact on the regulatory lineage is unknown.METHODS: In this report, we examined the effect of constitutive CD27 engagement on both regulatory and conventional CD4+ T cells in vivo, in the absence of intentional antigenic stimulation.RESULTS: Our data show that both T cell subsets polarize into type 1 Tconvs or Tregs, characterized by cell activation, cytokine production, response to IFN-γ and CXCR3-dependent migration to inflammatory sites. Transfer experiments suggest that CD27 engagement triggers Treg activation in a cell autonomous fashion.CONCLUSION: We conclude that CD27 may regulate the development of Th1 immunity in peripheral tissues as well as the subsequent switch of the effector response into long-term memory.
In addition to disease-associated microglia (DAM), microglia with MHC-II and/or IFN-I signatures may form additional pathogenic subsets that are relevant to neurodegeneration. However, the significance of such MHC-II and IFN-I signatures remains elusive. We demonstrate here that these microglial subsets play intrinsic roles in orchestrating neurotoxic properties of neurotoxic Eomes+ Th cells under the neurodegeneration-associated phase of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) that corresponds to progressive multiple sclerosis (MS). Microglia acquire IFN-signature after sensing ectopically expressed long interspersed nuclear element-1 (L1) gene. Furthermore, ORF1, an L1-encoded protein aberrantly expressed in the diseased central nervous system (CNS), stimulated Eomes+ Th cells after Trem2-dependent ingestion and presentation in MHC-II context by microglia. Interestingly, administration of an L1 inhibitor significantly ameliorated neurodegenerative symptoms of EAE concomitant with reduced accumulation of Eomes+ Th cells in the CNS. Collectively, our data highlight a critical contribution of new microglia subsets as a neuroinflammatory hub in immune-mediated neurodegeneration.
During intracellular infection, T follicular helper (TFH) and T helper 1 (TH1) cells promote humoral and cell-mediated responses, respectively. Another subset, CD4-cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CD4-CTLs), eliminate infected cells via functions typically associated with CD8+ T cells. The mechanisms underlying differentiation of these populations are incompletely understood. Here, we identify the transcription factor Aiolos as a reciprocal regulator of TFH and CD4-CTL programming. We find that Aiolos deficiency results in downregulation of key TFH transcription factors, and consequently reduced TFH differentiation and antibody production, during influenza virus infection. Conversely, CD4-CTL programming is elevated, including enhanced Eomes and cytolytic molecule expression. We further demonstrate that Aiolos deficiency allows for enhanced IL-2 sensitivity and increased STAT5 association with CD4-CTL gene targets, including Eomes, effector molecules, and IL2Ra. Thus, our collective findings identify Aiolos as a pivotal regulator of CD4-CTL and TFH programming and highlight its potential as a target for manipulating CD4+ T cell responses.
STUDY QUESTION: Do extracellular vesicles (EVs) from human Fallopian tubes exert an influence on early embryo development in vitro?SUMMARY ANSWER: Human Fallopian tube EVs carrying miRNAs increase murine embryo viability in vitro.WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Oviductal EVs (oEVs) are recently identified key players in embryo-oviduct interactions that contribute to successful pregnancy in vivo. Their absence in current in vitro systems may partly explain the suboptimal embryo development observed; therefore, further knowledge is needed about their impact on early embryos.STUDY DESIGN SIZE DURATION: The oEVs were isolated from the luminal fluid of human Fallopian tubes using ultracentrifugation. We cocultured oEVs with murine two-cell embryos until the blastocyst stage. The study was conducted between August 2021 and July 2022.PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS SETTING METHODS: A total of 23 premenopausal women were recruited for Fallopian-tubes collection, and the oEVs were isolated. The micro RNA (miRNA) contents were detected using high-throughput sequencing and their target genes and effects were analyzed. After in vitro culture with or without oEVs, the blastocyst and hatching rates were recorded. Furthermore, for the blastocysts formed, we assessed the total cell number, inner cell mass proportion, reactive oxygen species (ROS) level, number of apoptotic cells, and mRNA expression levels of genes involved in development.MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: EVs were successfully isolated from the human Fallopian tubal fluid and the concentrations were evaluated. A total of 79 known miRNAs were identified from eight samples that had been sequenced, all involved in various biological processes. The blastocyst rate, hatching rate, as well as total cell number of blastocysts were significantly increased in the oEVs-treated groups (P < 0.05 versus untreated), while the proportion of inner cell mass showed no significant difference between groups. ROS levels and apoptotic cell proportions were decreased in the oEVs-treated groups (P < 0.05 versus untreated). The genes, Actr3 (actin-related protein 3), Eomes (eomesodermin), and Wnt3a (Wnt family member 3A) were upregulated in blastocysts in the oEVs-treated group.LARGE SCALE DATA: Data are available from Gene Expression Omnibus: Accession number: GSE225122.LIMITATIONS REASONS FOR CAUTION: The Fallopian tubes in the current study were collected from patients with uterine fibroids (the reason they underwent hysterectomy), and this pathological condition may affect the characteristics of EVs in luminal fluid. Also, owing to restrictions for ethical reasons, an in vitro co-culture system using murine embryos was used instead of human embryos, and the findings may not be transferable.WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Deciphering miRNA contents in human oEVs and providing new evidence that oEVs benefit embryo development in vitro will not only increase our knowledge on embryo-oviduct communication but also potentially improve ART outcomes.STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: This study was supported by the National Key Research and Development Project of China (2021YFC2700603). No competing interests are declared.
Erratum in    Front Immunol. 2023 May 03;14:1195142.
Natural killer (NK) cells not only are innate effector lymphocytes that directly participate in tumor surveillance but are also essential helpers in the antitumor CD8+ T-cell response. However, the molecular mechanisms and potential checkpoints regulating NK cell helper functions remain elusive. Here, it is shown that the T-bet/Eomes-IFN-γ axis in NK cells is essential for CD8+ T cell-dependent tumor control, whereas T-bet-dependent NK cell effector functions are required for an optimal response to anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy. Importantly, NK cell-expressed TIPE2 (tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced protein-8 like-2) represents a checkpoint molecule for NK cell helper function, since Tipe2 deletion in NK cells not only enhances NK-intrinsic antitumor activity but also indirectly improves the antitumor CD8+ T cell response by promoting T-bet/Eomes-dependent NK cell effector functions. These studies thus reveal TIPE2 as a checkpoint for NK cell helper function, whose targeting might boost the antitumor T cell response in addition to T cell-based immunotherapy.
Comment in    Cancer Immunol Res. 2023 Apr 3;11(4):400.
The T-box transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin regulate type 1 immune responses in innate and adaptive lymphocytes. T-bet is widely expressed in the immune system but was initially identified as the lineage-specifying transcription factor of Th1 CD4+ T cells, where it governs expression of the signature cytokine IFN- γ and represses alternative cell fates like Th2 and Th17. T-bet's paralog Eomes is less abundantly expressed and Eomes+ CD4+ T cells are mostly found in the context of persistent antigen exposure, like bone marrow transplantation, chronic infection or inflammation as well as malignant disorders. However, it has remained unresolved whether Eomes executes similar transcriptional activities as T-bet in CD4+ T cells. Here we use a novel genetic approach to show that Eomes expression in CD4+ T cells drives a distinct transcriptional program that shows only partial overlap with T-bet. We found that Eomes is sufficient to induce the expression of the immunoregulatory cytokine IL-10 and, together with T-bet, promotes a cytotoxic effector profile, including Prf1, Gzmb, Gzmk, Nkg7 and Ccl5, while repressing alternative cell fates. Our results demonstrate that Eomes+ CD4+ T cells, which are often found in the context of chronic antigen stimulation, are likely to be a unique CD4+ T cell subset that limits inflammation and immunopathology as well as eliminates antigen-presenting and malignant cells.
During viral infections, especially Covid-19, Tcell exhaustion plays a crucial role in reducing the activity of lymphocytes and the immune system's antiviral activities. This research aimed to investigate the co-inhibitory receptors and transcription factors involved in the Tcell exhaustion process in ICU-admitted (ICUA) compared to non-ICU admitted (non-ICUA) Covid-19 patients. A total of 60 Covid-19 patients (30 patients in the severe group who were admitted in the ICU (ICUA) and 30 patients in the mild group who were admitted in departments other than the ICU (non-ICUA)) and 10 healthy individuals were included in this study. Laboratory tests and the level of gene expressions related to 4 inhibitory co-receptors, including LAG-3, TIM-3, TIGIT, PD-1, and T-bet and Eomes transcription factors involved in the process of Tcell exhaustion in severe and mild patients of Covid-19 were investigated. The results showed lymphopenia and an increase in other hematologic laboratory factors such as NLR, PLR, CRP, ALT, and AST in people with a severe form of the disease (ICUA) compared to mild groups (non-ICUA) (P < 0.001). Furthermore, a significant increase in 3 co-inhibitory receptors, TIM-3, LAG-3, and PD-1, was observed in severe patients compared to mild and healthy people (P < 0.001). An increase in TIGIT gene expression was lesser than the other three mentioned receptors (P < 0.05). Concerning the transcription factors, we observed a significant increase in Eomes in ICUA patients compared to the non-ICUA group (P < 0.001), and this increment in T-bet gene expression was minor compared to Eomes (P < 0.05). In conclusion, Patients with a severe form of acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) represented a higher level of gene expressions in terms of co-inhibitory receptors and transcription factors involved in the T cell exhaustion process.
BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (TB-IRIS) is a frequent complication of cotreatment for TB and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1. We characterized Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb)-specific CD4 T-cell phenotype and transcription factor profile associated with the development of TB-IRIS.METHODS: We examined the role of CD4 T-cell transcription factors in a murine model of mycobacterial IRIS. In humans, we used a longitudinal study design to compare the magnitude of antiretroviral therapy, activation, transcription factor profile, and cytotoxic potential of Mtb-specific CD4 T cells between TB-IRIS (n = 25) and appropriate non-IRIS control patients (n = 18) using flow cytometry.RESULTS: In the murine model, CD4 T-cell expression of Eomesodermin (Eomes), but not Tbet, was associated with experimentally induced IRIS. In patients, TB-IRIS onset was associated with the expansion of Mtb-specific IFNγ+CD4 T cells (P = .039). Patients with TB-IRIS had higher HLA-DR expression (P = .016), but no differences in the expression of T-bet or Eomes were observed. At TB-IRIS onset, Eomes+Tbet+Mtb-specific IFNγ+CD4+ T cells showed higher expression of granzyme B in patients with TB-IRIS (P = .026).CONCLUSIONS: Although the murine model of Mycobacterium avium complex-IRIS suggests that Eomes+CD4 T cells underly IRIS, TB-IRIS was not associated with Eomes expression in patients. Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific IFNγ+CD4 T-cell responses in TB-IRIS patients are differentiated, highly activated, and potentially cytotoxic.
Natural killer (NK) cells are an important component of anti-cancer immunity, and their activity is regulated by an array of activating and inhibitory receptors. In mice, the inhibitory NKR-P1B receptor is expressed in NK cells and recognizes the C-type lectin-related protein-b (Clr-b) ligand. NKR-P1B:Clr-b interactions represent a 'missing-self' recognition system to monitor cellular levels of Clr-b on healthy and diseased cells. Here, we report an important role for NKR-P1B:Clr-b interactions in tumor immunosurveillance in MMTV-PyVT mice, which develop spontaneous mammary tumors. MMTV-PyVT mice on NKR-P1B-deficient genetic background developed mammary tumors earlier than on wild-type (WT) background. A greater proportion of tumor-infiltrating NK cells downregulate expression of the transcription factor Eomesodermin (EOMES) in NKR-P1B-deficient mice compared to WT mice. Tumor-infiltrating NK cells also downregulated CD49b expression but gain CD49a expression and exhibit effector functions, such as granzyme B upregulation and proliferation in mammary tumors. However, unlike the EOMES+ NK cells, the EOMES‒ NK cell subset is unable to respond to further in vitro stimulation and exhibits phenotypic alterations associated with immune dysfunction. These alterations included increased expression of PD-1, LAG-3, and TIGIT and decreased expression of NKp46, Ly49C/I, CD11b, and KLRG-1. Furthermore, tumor-infiltrating NKR-P1B-deficient NK cells exhibited an elevated dysfunctional immune phenotype compared to WT NK cells. These findings demonstrate that the NKR-P1B receptor plays an important role in mammary tumor surveillance by regulating anti-cancer immune responses and functional homeostasis in NK cells.
Type 1 regulatory (Tr1) T cells are currently defined all T cells with regulatory functions that lack FOXP3 expression and produce IL-10. Tr1 cells are heterogeneous, and the different reported properties of Tr1-cell populations have caused some confusion in the field. Moreover, understanding the role of Tr1 cells in immune-mediated diseases has been hampered by the lack of a lineage-defining transcription factor. Several independent studies indicated recently that the transcription factor Eomesodermin (EOMES) could act as a lineage-defining transcription factor in a population of IL-10 and IFN-γ co-producing Tr1-like cells, since EOMES directly induces IFN-γ and cytotoxicity, enhances IL-10, and antagonizes alternative T-cell fates. Here, we review the known properties of EOMES+ Tr1-like cells. They share several key characteristics with other Tr1 cells (i.e., "Tr1-like"), namely high IL-10 production, cytotoxicity, and suppressive capabilities. Notably, they also share some features with FOXP3+ Tregs, like downregulation of IL-7R and CD40L. In addition, they possess several unique, EOMES-dependent features, that is, expression of GzmK and IFN-γ, and downregulation of type-17 cytokines. Published evidence indicates that EOMES+ Tr1-like cells play key roles in graft-versus-host disease, colitis, systemic autoimmunity and in tumors. Thus, EOMES+ Tr1-like cells are key players of the adaptive immune system that are involved in several different immune-mediated diseases.
AIMS: We studied the effect of choline and folate deficiencies on levels of predetermined placental proteins during early development.METHODS: We incubated HTR-8/SVneo cells under choline and folate deficiency conditions and measured levels of some placental proteins using ELISA methods.RESULTS: Concentrations of LRP2 protein in cell lysates were higher in cells incubated in choline and folate deficient media compared to the control media (mean [SD] = 2.95 [1.30] vs. 1.65 [0.27] ng/mg protein, p = 0.004). The levels of LRP2 protein in lysates of cells incubated in choline and folate deficient media were significantly higher than the concentrations in lysates of cells incubated in choline deficient but folate sufficient media (1.96 [0.28] ng/mg protein) or those incubated in choline sufficient but folate deficient media (1.77 [0.24] ng/mg protein) (p < 0.05 for both). The cellular levels of CDX2 protein were significantly higher in cells incubated in choline and folate deficient media compared to the control media (1.78 [0.60] vs. 0.99 [0.42] pg/mg protein, p = 0.002); and compared to CDX2 levels in cells incubated in choline deficient but folate sufficient media (0.87 [0.13] pg/mg protein, p < 0.001) or in choline sufficient but folate deficient media (0.96 [0.16] pg/mg protein, p < 0.001). The levels of sFLT-1 and IGF1 in culture media and that of EOMES in HTR-8/SVneo cell lysates remained unchanged under all deficiency conditions.DISCUSSION: LRP2 and CDX2 are likely to be molecular targets for early choline and folate deficiencies in human trophoblast cells. The results should be confirmed in animal models and in other models of placental cells.
Human primordial germ cells (hPGCs), the precursors of sperm and eggs, are specified during weeks 2-3 after fertilization. Few studies on ex vivo and in vitro cultured human embryos reported plausible hPGCs on embryonic day (E) 12-13 and in an E16-17 gastrulating embryo. In vitro, hPGC-like cells (hPGCLCs) can be specified from the intermediary pluripotent stage or peri-gastrulation precursors. Here, we explore the broad spectrum of hPGCLC precursors and how different precursors impact hPGCLC development. We show that resetting precursors can give rise to hPGCLCs (rhPGCLCs) in response to BMP. Strikingly, rhPGCLCs co-cultured with human hindgut organoids progress at a pace reminiscent of in vivo hPGC development, unlike those derived from peri-gastrulation precursors. Moreover, rhPGCLC specification depends on both EOMES and TBXT, not just on EOMES as for peri-gastrulation hPGCLCs. Importantly, our study provides the foundation for developing efficient in vitro models of human gametogenesis.
Group 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) comprise a heterogeneous family of cytotoxic natural killer (NK) cells and ILC1s. We identify a population of "liver-type" ILC1s with transcriptional, phenotypic, and functional features distinct from those of conventional and liver-resident NK cells as well as from other previously described human ILC1 subsets. LT-ILC1s are CD49a+CD94+CD200R1+, express the transcription factor T-BET, and do not express the activating receptor NKp80 or the transcription factor EOMES. Similar to NK cells, liver-type ILC1s produce IFN-γ, TNF-α, and GM-CSF; however, liver-type ILC1s also produce IL-2 and lack perforin and granzyme-B. Liver-type ILC1s are expanded in cirrhotic liver tissues, and they can be produced from blood-derived ILC precursors in vitro in the presence of TGF-β1 and liver sinusoidal endothelial cells. Cells with similar signature and function can also be found in tonsil and intestinal tissues. Collectively, our study identifies and classifies a population of human cross-tissue ILC1s.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are a group of innate lymphocytes that do not express RAG-dependent rearranged antigen-specific cell surface receptors. ILCs are classified into five groups according to their developmental trajectory and cytokine production profile. They encompass NK cells, which are cytotoxic, helper-like ILCs 1-3, which functionally mirror CD4+ T helper (Th) type 1, Th2 and Th17 cells respectively, and lymphoid tissue inducer (LTi) cells. NK cell development depends on Eomes (eomesodermin), whereas the ILC1 program is regulated principally by the transcription factor T-bet (T-box transcription factor Tbx21), that of ILC2 is regulated by GATA3 (GATA-binding protein 3) and that of ILC3 is regulated by RORγt (RAR-related orphan receptor γ). NK cells were discovered close to fifty years ago, but ILC1s were first described only about fifteen years ago. Within the ILC family, NK and ILC1s share many similarities, as witnessed by their cell surface phenotype which largely overlap. NK cells and ILC1s have been reported to respond to tissue inflammation and intracellular pathogens. Several studies have reported an antitumorigenic role for NK cells in both humans and mice, but data for ILC1s are both scarce and contradictory. In this review, we will first describe the different NK cell and ILC1 subsets, their effector functions and development. We will then discuss their role in cancer and the effects of the tumor microenvironment on their metabolism.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common inflammatory demyelinating disease with a high mortality rate. MS is caused by many candidate genes whose specific involvement has yet to be established. The aim of our study was to identify endogenous miRNAs and piRNAs involved in the regulation of MS candidate gene expression using bioinformatic methods. A program was used to quantify the interaction of miRNA and piRNA nucleotides with mRNA of the target genes. We used 7310 miRNAs from three databases and 40,000 piRNAs. The mRNAs of the candidate genes revealed miRNA binding sites (BSs), which were located separately or formed clusters of BSs with overlapping nucleotide sequences. The miRNAs from the studied databases were generally bound to mRNAs in different combinations, but miRNAs from only one database were bound to the mRNAs of some genes. For the first time, a direct interaction between the complete sequence of piRNA nucleotides and the nucleotides of their mRNA BSs of target genes was shown. One to several clusters of BSs of miRNA and piRNA were identified in the mRNA of ADAM17, AHI1, CD226, EOMES, EVI5, IL12B, IL2RA, KIF21B, MGAT5, MLANA, SOX8, TNFRSF1A, and ZBTB46 MS candidate genes. These piRNAs form the expression regulation system of the MS candidate genes to coordinate the synthesis of their proteins. Based on these findings, associations of miRNAs, piRNAs, and candidate genes for MS diagnosis are recommended.
BACKGROUND: In preclinical studies of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), ibrutinib improved the antitumor efficacy of the standard of care chemotherapy. This led to a phase 1b clinical trial to determine the safety, tolerability, and immunologic effects of ibrutinib treatment in patients with advanced PDAC.METHODS: Previously untreated patients with PDAC were enrolled in a phase 1b clinical trial (ClinicalTrials.gov) to determine the safety, toxicity, and maximal tolerated dose of ibrutinib when administered with the standard regimen of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. To study the immune response to ibrutinib alone, the trial included an immune response arm where patients were administered with ibrutinib daily for a week followed by ibrutinib combined with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided primary PDAC tumor biopsies and blood were collected before and after ibrutinib monotherapy. Changes in abundance and functional state of immune cells in the blood was evaluated by mass cytometry by time of flight and statistical scaffold analysis, while that in the local tumor microenvironment (TME) were assessed by multiplex immunohistochemistry. Changes in B-cell receptor and T-cell receptor repertoire were assessed by sequencing and analysis of clonality.RESULTS: In the blood, ibrutinib monotherapy significantly increased the frequencies of activated inducible T cell costimulator+(ICOS+) CD4+ T cells and monocytes. Within the TME, ibrutinib monotherapy led to a trend in decreased B-cell abundance but increased interleukin-10+ B-cell frequency. Monotherapy also led to a trend in increased mature CD208+dendritic cell density, increased late effector (programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1-) eomesodermin (EOMES+)) CD8+ T-cell frequency, with a concomitantly decreased dysfunctional (PD-1+ EOMES+) CD8+ T-cell frequency. When ibrutinib was combined with chemotherapy, most of these immune changes were not observed. Patients with partial clinical responses had more diverse T and B cell receptor repertoires prior to therapy initiation.CONCLUSION: Ibrutinib monotherapy skewed the immune landscape both in the circulation and TME towards activated T cells, monocytes and DCs. These effects were not observed when combining ibrutinib with standard of care chemotherapy. Future studies may focus on other therapeutic combinations that augment the immunomodulatory effects of ibrutinib in solid tumors.TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02562898.
Tissue-resident memory CD8+ T (TRM) cells are a subset of memory T cells that play a critical role in limiting early pathogen spread and controlling infection. TRM cells exhibit differences across tissues, but their potential heterogeneity among distinct anatomic compartments within the small intestine and colon has not been well recognized. Here, by analyzing TRM cells from the lamina propria and epithelial compartments of the small intestine and colon, we showed that intestinal TRM cells exhibited distinctive patterns of cytokine and granzyme expression along with substantial transcriptional, epigenetic, and functional heterogeneity. The T-box transcription factor Eomes, which represses TRM cell formation in some tissues, exhibited unexpected context-specific regulatory roles in supporting the maintenance of established TRM cells in the small intestine, but not in the colon. Taken together, these data provide previously unappreciated insights into the heterogeneity and differential requirements for the formation vs. maintenance of intestinal TRM cells.
Acquired resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) is reportedly inevitable in lung cancers harboring epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations, emphasizing the need for novel approaches to predict EGFR-TKI resistance for clinical monitoring and patient management. This study identified a significant increase in eomesodermin (EOMES)+CD8+ T cells in the TKI-resistant patients, which was correlated with poor survival. The increase in EOMES+CD8+ T cells was further confirmed in both tissue samples and peripheral blood of patients with TKIs resistance. The integrated analysis of pseudotime and Gene set variation showed that the increase in EOMES+CD8+ T cells may be attributed to TRM T cell conversion and metabolic reprogramming. Overall, this work suggested an association between the increased number of EOMES+CD8+ T cells and acquired TKI drug resistance, supporting the utility of EOMES+CD8+ T cells as a biomarker for TKI treatment response.
BACKGROUND: The morbidity and mortality rates for gastric cancer (GC) rank second among all cancers, indicating the serious threat it poses to human health, as well as human life. This study aims to identify the pathways and genes as well as investigate the molecular mechanisms of tumor-related genes in gastric cancer (GC).METHOD: We compared differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially methylated genes (DMGs) in gastric cancer and normal tissue samples using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Gene and Genome (KEGG) and the Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis' pathway annotations were conducted on DMGs and DEGs using a clusterProfiler R package to identify the important functions, as well as the biological processes and pathways involved. The intersection of the two was chosen and defined as differentially methylated and expressed genes (DMEGs). For DMEGs, we used the principal component analysis (PCA) to differentiate gastric cancer from adjacent samples. The linear discriminant analysis method was applied to categorize the samples using DMEGs methylation data and DMEGs expression profiles data and was validated using the leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) method. We plotted the ROC curve for the classification and calculated the AUC (area under the ROC curve) value for a more intuitive view of the classification effect. We also used the NetworkAnalyst 3.0 tool to analyze DMEGs, using DrugBank to acquire information on protein-drug interactions and generate a network map of gene-drug interactions.RESULTS: We identified a total of 971 DMGs in 188 PD-1 negative and 187 PD-1 positive gastric cancer samples obtained from TCGA. The KEGG and GO enrichment analysis showed the involvement of the regulation of ion transmembrane transport, collagen-containing extracellular matrix, cell-cell junction, and peptidase regulator activity. We simultaneously obtained 1,189 DEGs, out of which 986 were downregulated, while 203 were upregulated in tumors. The enriched analysis of the GO's and KEGG's pathways indicated that the most significant pathways included an intestinal immune network for IgA production, Staphylococcus aureus infection, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, which have previously been linked with gastric cancer. The compound DB01830 can bind well to the active site of the LCK protein and shows good stability, thus making it a potential inhibitor of the LCK protein. To observe the relationship between DMEGs' expression and prognosis, we observed 10 genes, among which were TRIM29, TSPAN8, EOMES, PPP1R16B, SELL, PCED1B, IYD, JPH1, CEACAM5, and RP11-44K6.2. Their high expressions were related to high risks. Besides, those genes were validated in different internal and external validation sets.CONCLUSION: These results may provide potential molecular biological therapy for PD-1 negative gastric cancer.
Cancer immunotherapy relies on improving T cell effector functions against malignancies, but despite the identification of several key transcription factors (TFs), the biological functions of these TFs are not entirely understood. We developed and utilized a novel, clinically relevant murine model to dissect the functional properties of crucial T cell transcription factors during anti-tumor responses. Our data showed that the loss of TCF-1 in CD8 T cells also leads to loss of key stimulatory molecules such as CD28. Our data showed that TCF-1 suppresses surface NKG2D expression on naïve and activated CD8 T cells via key transcriptional factors Eomes and T-bet. Using both in vitro and in vivo models, we uncovered how TCF-1 regulates critical molecules responsible for peripheral CD8 T cell effector functions. Finally, our unique genetic and molecular approaches suggested that TCF-1 also differentially regulates essential kinases. These kinases, including LCK, LAT, ITK, PLC-γ1, P65, ERKI/II, and JAK/STATs, are required for peripheral CD8 T cell persistent function during alloimmunity. Overall, our molecular and bioinformatics data demonstrate the mechanism by which TCF-1 modulated several critical aspects of T cell function during CD8 T cell response to cancer. Summary Figure: TCF-1 is required for persistent function of CD8 T cells but dispensable for anti-tumor response. Here, we have utilized a novel mouse model that lacks TCF-1 specifically on CD8 T cells for an allogeneic transplant model. We uncovered a molecular mechanism of how TCF-1 regulates key signaling pathways at both transcriptomic and protein levels. These key molecules included LCK, LAT, ITK, PLC-γ1, p65, ERK I/II, and JAK/STAT signaling. Next, we showed that the lack of TCF-1 impacted phenotype, proinflammatory cytokine production, chemokine expression, and T cell activation. We provided clinical evidence for how these changes impact GVHD target organs (skin, small intestine, and liver). Finally, we provided evidence that TCF-1 regulates NKG2D expression on mouse naïve and activated CD8 T cells. We have shown that CD8 T cells from TCF-1 cKO mice mediate cytolytic functions via NKG2D.
OBJECTIVE: The systematic immune status of cancer patients undergoing immunotherapy is little known. We prospectively identified the function and differentiation traits of peripheral CD8+ T cells based on our phase 1b clinical trial (NCT03222440) of radiotherapy combined with camrelizumab in patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and compared it with concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT).METHODS: 19 and 18 patients were included in the cohort of radiotherapy plus camrelizumab and cohort of CCRT treatment. By using flow cytometry, we evaluated the expression levels of PD-1, Eomes, T-bet and IFN-γ (function), CD38 and HLA-DR (activation), and differentiation subsets classified according to the expression levels of CD45RA and CD62L in peripheral CD8+ T cells before and during treatment.RESULTS: Effective binding of anti-PD-1 antibody camrelizumab with PD-1 on CD8+ T cells was detected during treatment. Both two treatments elevated the expression levels of activation molecules CD38 and HLA-DR on CD8+ T cells. PD-1+CD8+ T cells had more activation features than PD-1-CD8+ T cells in two groups and the treatments did not alter these differences. The two treatments activated both PD-1+ and PD-1- CD8+ T cells. PD-1+CD8+ T cells had less Naïve and TEMRA but more Tcm and Tem than PD-1-CD8+ T cells in two groups and both two treatments changed the ratio of memory T cells in PD-1+ and PD-1- cells. RT plus camrelizumab treatment reduced Naïve T cells and TEMRA subsets both in PD-1+ and PD-1- CD8+ T cells while elevated Tcm subset in PD-1+CD8+ T cells and Tem subset in PD-1-CD8+ T cells. CCRT elevated Tcm subset and reduced TEMRA subset in PD-1-CD8+ T cells while did not change any subset in PD-1+CD8+ T cells. Furthermore, patients undergoing radiotherapy plus immunotherapy were found to obtain better prognosis than those receiving CCRT.CONCLUSIONS: This study identified the dynamic changes of systematic immune status of patients undergoing treatment. The two treatments had similar activation effects on peripheral CD8+ T cells with different PD-1 properties but had different effects on their differentiation status. These results provided potential clues to the reasons underlying the difference in prognosis of the two treatments.
The development of innate lymphoid cell (ILC) transcription factor reporter mice has shown a previously unexpected complexity in ILC hematopoiesis. Using novel polychromic mice to achieve higher phenotypic resolution, we have characterized bone marrow progenitors that are committed to the group 1 ILC lineage. These common ILC1/NK cell progenitors (ILC1/NKP), which we call "aceNKPs", are defined as lineage-Id2+IL-7Rα+CD25-α4β7-NKG2A/C/E+Bcl11b-. In vitro, aceNKPs differentiate into group 1 ILCs, including NK-like cells that express Eomes without the requirement for IL-15, and produce IFN-γ and perforin upon IL-15 stimulation. Following reconstitution of Rag2-/-Il2rg-/- hosts, aceNKPs give rise to a spectrum of mature ILC1/NK cells (regardless of their tissue location) that cannot be clearly segregated into the traditional ILC1 and NK subsets, suggesting that group 1 ILCs constitute a dynamic continuum of ILCs that can develop from a common progenitor. In addition, aceNKP-derived ILC1/NK cells effectively ameliorate tumor burden in a model of lung metastasis, where they acquired a cytotoxic NK cell phenotype. Our results identify the primary ILC1/NK progenitor that lacks ILC2 or ILC3 potential and is strictly committed to ILC1/NK cell production irrespective of tissue homing.
Natural killer (NK) cells and type 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILC1s) are populations of non-T, non-B lymphocytes in peripheral tissues. Although NK and ILC1 subsets have been described, their identification and characteristics remain unclear. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing and CITE-seq to explore NK and ILC1 heterogeneity between tissues. We observed that although NK1 and NK2 subsets are conserved in spleen and liver, ILC1s are heterogeneous across tissues. We identified sets of genes expressed by related subsets or characterizing unique ILC1 populations in each organ. The syndecan-4 appeared as a marker discriminating murine ILC1 from NK cells across organs. Finally, we revealed that the expressions of EOMES, GZMA, IRF8, JAK1, NKG7, PLEK, PRF1, and ZEB2 define NK cells and that IL7R, LTB, and RGS1 differentiate ILC1s from NK cells in mice and humans. Our data constitute an important resource to improve our understanding of NK-ILC1 origin, phenotype, and biology.
Central to the impacts of CD4 T cells, both positive in settings of infectious disease and cancer and negative in the settings of autoimmunity and allergy, is their ability to differentiate into distinct effector subsets with specialized functions. The programming required to support such responses is largely dictated by lineage-specifying transcription factors, often called 'master regulators'. However, it is increasingly clear that many aspects of CD4 T cell immunobiology that can determine the outcomes of disease states involve a broader transcriptional network. Eomesodermin (Eomes) is emerging as an important member of this class of transcription factors. While best studied in CD8 T cells and NK cells, an increasing body of work has focused on impacts of Eomes expression in CD4 T cell responses in an array of different settings. Here, we focus on the varied impacts reported in these studies that, together, indicate the potential of targeting Eomes expression in CD4 T cells as a strategy to improve a variety of clinical outcomes.
Activation of nodal genes is critical for mesoderm and endoderm induction. Our previous study reported that zebrafish nodal genes ndr1/squint and ndr2/cyclops are coordinately regulated by maternal Eomesa, Hwa-activated β-catenin (Hwa/β-catenin) signaling, and Nodal autoregulation (Nodal/Smad2) signaling. However, the exact contribution and underlying mechanisms are still elusive. Here, we applied "causal inference" to evaluate the causal between the independent and dependent variables, and we found that Hwa/β-catenin and Smad2 are the cause of ndr1 activation, while Eomesa is the cause of ndr2 activation. Mechanistically, the different cis-regulatory regions of ndr1 and ndr2 bound by Eomesa, β-catenin, and Smad2 were screened out via ChIP-qPCR and verified by the transgene constructs. The marginal GFP expression driven by ndr1 transgenesis could be diminished without both maternal Eomesa and Hwa/β-catenin, while Eomesa, not β-catenin, could bind and activate ndr2 demonstrated by ndr2 transgenesis. Thus, the distinct regulation of ndr1/ndr2 relies on different cis-regulatory regions.
Type 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s) are characterized by RORγt expression and they produce IL-22 upon activation. ILC3s play a role in maintenance of barrier integrity in the intestine. Under inflammatory conditions, the ILC composition of the mucosal tissues is altered due to a high degree of plasticity. It has been extensively demonstrated that both murine and human ILC3s convert into ILC1s to mediate appropriate immune responses. However, plasticity between human ILC3s and NK cells is less well documented. As T-BET and EOMES are key transcription factors in NK cell differentiation, we investigated whether ectopic T-BET or EOMES expression converts human ILC3s into NK cells. ILC3s with ectopic T-BET and EOMES expression downregulate RORγt expression, while T-BET-overexpressing ILC3s additionally upregulate EOMES expression. High E ctopic T-BET expression in ILC3s results in transdifferentiation towards CD94+ NK cells, whereas ectopic EOMES overexpression results in dedifferentiation of ILC3s into CD94-CD117-/low cells but is ineffective in NK cell generation. Dedifferentiating ILC3s from both T-BET and EOMES overexpression cultures upregulate NK cell receptors, perforin and granzyme B. Finally, IL-22 secretion is completely blocked in transdifferentiating ILC3s with both T-BET and EOMES ectopic expression, whereas only T-BET overexpression increases IFN-γ secretion and cytotoxicity. Altogether, these findings demonstrate that human ILC3s can convert into functional NK cells, wherein T-BET, and not EOMES, is the main driver.
Inborn errors of IFN-γ immunity can underlie tuberculosis (TB). We report three patients from two kindreds without EBV viremia or disease but with severe TB and inherited complete ITK deficiency, a condition associated with severe EBV disease that renders immunological studies challenging. They have CD4+ αβ T lymphocytopenia with a concomitant expansion of CD4-CD8- double-negative (DN) αβ and Vδ2- γδ T lymphocytes, both displaying a unique CD38+CD45RA+T-bet+EOMES- phenotype. Itk-deficient mice recapitulated an expansion of the γδ T and DN αβ T lymphocyte populations in the thymus and spleen, respectively. Moreover, the patients' T lymphocytes secrete small amounts of IFN-γ in response to TCR crosslinking, mitogens, or forced synapse formation with autologous B lymphocytes. Finally, the patients' total lymphocytes secrete small amounts of IFN-γ, and CD4+, CD8+, DN αβ T, Vδ2+ γδ T, and MAIT cells display impaired IFN-γ production in response to BCG. Inherited ITK deficiency undermines the development and function of various IFN-γ-producing T cell subsets, thereby underlying TB.
Stem cell-derived three-dimensional (3D) gastruloids show a remarkable capacity of self-organisation and recapitulate many aspects of gastrulation stage mammalian development. Gastruloids can be rapidly generated and offer several experimental advantages, such as scalability, observability and accessibility for manipulation. Here, we present approaches to further expand the experimental potency of murine 3D gastruloids by using functional genetics in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) to generate chimeric gastruloids. In chimeric gastruloids, fluorescently labelled cells of different genotypes harbouring inducible gene expression or loss-of-function alleles are combined with wild-type cells. We showcase this experimental approach in chimeric gastruloids of mESCs carrying homozygous deletions of the Tbx transcription factor brachyury or inducible expression of Eomes. Resulting chimeric gastruloids recapitulate reported Eomes and brachyury functions, such as instructing cardiac fate and promoting posterior axial extension, respectively. Additionally, chimeric gastruloids revealed previously unrecognised phenotypes, such as the tissue sorting preference of brachyury deficient cells to endoderm and the cell non-autonomous effects of brachyury deficiency on Wnt3a patterning along the embryonic axis, demonstrating some of the advantages of chimeric gastruloids as an efficient tool for studies of mammalian gastrulation.
BACKGROUND: Ageing is a complex phenomenon that leads to decreased proliferative activity, loss of function of the cells, and cellular senescence. Senescence of the immune system exacerbates individual's immune response, both humoral and cellular but increases the frequency of infections. We hypothesized that physiological ageing of adaptive immune system occurs in recipients of allogeneic hematopoietic cells transplant (allo-HCT) at faster rate when compared to their respective donors since the small number of donor cells undergo immense proliferative stress restoring recipients hematopoiesis. We compared molecular characterizations of ageing between recipients and donors of allo-HCT: telomeric length and immunophenotypic changes in main lymphocyte subsets - CD4+, CD8+, CD19+, CD56+.RESULTS: Median telomeric length (TL) of CD8+ lymphocytes was significantly longer in donors compared to recipients (on average 2,1 kb and 1,7 kb respectively, p = 0,02). Similar trends were observed for CD4+ and CD19+ although the results did not reach statistical significance. We have also found trends in the immunophenotype between recipients and donors in the subpopulations of CD4+ (naïve and effector memory), CD8+ Eomes+ and B-lymphocytes (B1 and B2). Lower infection risk recipients had also a significantly greater percentage of NK cells (22,3%) than high-risk patients (9,3%) p = 0,04.CONCLUSION: Our data do not support the initial hypothesis of accelerated aging in the long term all-HCT recipients with the exception of the recipients lymphocytes (mainly CD8+) which present some molecular features, characteristic for physiological ageing (telomeric shortening, immunophenotype) when compared to their respective donors. However, a history of lower infection numbers in HCT recipients seems to be associated with increased percentage of NK cells. The history of GVHD seems not to affect the rate of ageing. Therefore, it is safe to conclude that the observed subtle differences between recipients' and donors' cells result mainly from the proliferative stress in the early period after allo-HCT and the difference between hosts' and recipients' microenvironments.
BACKGROUND: Exposure to cadmium (Cd) is associated with cardiovascular diseases. Maternal Cd exposure is a significant risk factor for congenital heart disease. However, mechanisms of Cd on developmental cardiotoxicity are not well defined.OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the effects of Cd on the different stages (mesoderm, cardiac induction, cardiac function) of cardiac development using an early embryo development in vitro model and two- or three-dimensional (2- or 3D) cardiomyocyte and cardiac organoid formation models mimicking early cardiac development.METHODS: Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) form 3D aggregates, called embryoid bodies, that recapitulate events involved with early embryogenesis (e.g., germ layer formation). This model was used for early germ layer formation and signaling pathway identification. The 2D cardiomyocyte differentiation from the NKX2 - 5eGFP/w human ESCs model was used to explore the effects of Cd exposure on cardiomyocyte formation and to model mesoderm differentiation and cardiac induction, allowing us to explore different developmental windows of Cd toxicity. The 3D cardiac organoid model was used in evaluating the effects of Cd exposure on contractility and cardiac development.RESULTS: Cd (0.6 μM; 110 ppb) lowered the differentiation of embryoid bodies to mesoderm via suppression of Wnt/β-catenin-signaling pathways. During early mesoderm induction, the mesoderm-associated transcription factors MESP1 and EOMES showed a transient up-regulation, which decreased later in the cardiac induction stage. Cd (0.15 μM) lowered mesoderm formation and cardiac induction through suppression of the transcription factors and mesoderm marker genes HAND1, SNAI2, HOPX, and the cardiac-specific genes NKX2-5, GATA4, troponin T, and alpha-actinin. In addition, Cd-induced histone modifications for both gene activation (H3K4me3) and repression (H3K27me3), which play vital roles in regulating mesoderm commitment markers. The effects of Cd inhibition on cardiomyocyte differentiation were confirmed in 3D cardiac organoids.DISCUSSION: In conclusion, using a human ESC-derived 2D/3D in vitro differentiation model system and cardiac organoids, we demonstrated that low-dose Cd suppressed mesoderm formation through mesoderm gene histone modification, thus inhibiting cardiomyocyte differentiation and cardiac induction. The studies provide valuable insights into cellular events and molecular mechanisms associated with Cd-induced congenital heart disease. https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP11208.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Tertiary lymphoid structures and aggregates are reported in the meninges of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), especially at the progressive stage, and are strongly associated with cortical lesions and disability. Besides B cells, these structures comprise follicular helper T (Tfh) cells that are crucial to support B-cell differentiation. Tfh cells play a pivotal role in amplifying autoreactive B cells and promoting autoantibody production in several autoimmune diseases, but very few are known in MS. In this study, we examined the phenotype, frequency, and transcriptome of circulating cTfh cells in the blood and CSF of patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS).METHODS: The phenotype and frequency of cTfh cells were analyzed in the blood of 39 healthy controls and 41 untreated patients with RRMS and in the CSF and paired blood of 10 patients with drug-naive RRMS at diagnosis by flow cytometry. Using an in vitro model of blood-brain barrier, we assessed the transendothelial migratory abilities of the different cTfh-cell subsets. Finally, we performed an RNA sequencing analysis of paired CSF cTfh cells and blood cTfh cells in 8 patients sampled at their first demyelinating event.RESULTS: The blood phenotype and frequency of cTfh cells were not significantly modified in patients with RRMS. In the CSF, we found an important infiltration of Tfh1 cells, with a high proportion of activated PD1+ cells. We demonstrated that the specific subset of Tfh1 cells presents increased migration abilities to cross an in vitro model of blood-brain barrier. Of interest, even at the first demyelinating event, cTfh cells in the CSF display specific characteristics with upregulation of EOMES gene and proinflammatory/cytotoxic transcriptomic signature able to efficiently distinguish cTfh cells from the CSF and blood. Finally, interactome analysis revealed potential strong cross talk between pathogenic B cells and CSF cTfh cells, pointing out the CSF as opportune supportive compartment and highlighting the very early implication of B-cell helper T cells in MS pathogenesis.DISCUSSION: Overall, CSF enrichment in activated Tfh1 as soon as disease diagnosis, associated with high expression of EOMES, and a predicted high propensity to interact with CSF B cells suggest that these cells probably contribute to disease onset and/or activity.
Polymicrogyria (PMG) is a relatively common complex malformation with cortical development, characterized by an exorbitant number of abnormally tiny gyri separated by shallow sulci. It is a neuronal migration disorder. Familial cases of PMG and the manifestation of PMG in patients with chromosomal aberrations and mutations indicate their important role of genetics in this disorder. The highly stereotyped and well-conserved nature of the cortical folding pattern in humans is suggestive of the genetic regulation of the process. The chromosomal abnormalities observed in PMG include deletions, duplications, chromosomal rearrangements, and aneuploidies. Two of the most common deletions in PMG are 22q11.2 deletion and 1p36 deletion. Further, mutations in several genes such as GPR56, TUBB2B, SRPX2, PAX6, EOMES, WDR62, TUBA8, KIAA1279, and COL18A1 are known to be associated with PMG. Intriguingly, these genes are responsible only for a small number of cases of PMG. The protein products of these genes are implicated in diverse molecular and cellular functions. Taken together, PMG could be the result of the disruption of several biological pathways. Different modes of Mendelian inheritance and non-Mendelian inheritance are seen in PMG. We have suggested a gene panel that can be used for the detection of malformations of cortical development.
The evolutionarily conserved RNA helicase DDX6 is a central player in post-transcriptional regulation, but its role during embryogenesis remains elusive. We here show that DDX6 enables proper cell lineage specification from pluripotent cells by analyzing Ddx6 knockout (KO) mouse embryos and employing an in vitro epiblast-like cell (EpiLC) induction system. Our study unveils that DDX6 is an important BMP signaling regulator. Deletion of Ddx6 causes the aberrant upregulation of the negative regulators of BMP signaling, which is accompanied by enhanced expression of Nodal and related genes. Ddx6 KO pluripotent cells acquire higher pluripotency with a strong inclination toward neural lineage commitment. During gastrulation, abnormally expanded Nodal and Eomes expression in the primitive streak likely promotes endoderm cell fate specification while inhibiting mesoderm differentiation. We also genetically dissected major DDX6 pathways by generating Dgcr8, Dcp2, and Eif4enif1 KO models in addition to Ddx6 KO. We found that the miRNA pathway mutant Dgcr8 KO phenocopies Ddx6 KO, indicating that DDX6 mostly works along with the miRNA pathway during early development, whereas its P-body-related functions are dispensable. Therefore, we conclude that DDX6 prevents aberrant upregulation of BMP signaling inhibitors by participating in miRNA-mediated gene silencing processes. Overall, this study delineates how DDX6 affects the development of the three primary germ layers during early mouse embryogenesis and the underlying mechanism of DDX6 function.
OBJECTIVES: 1. To analyze the prevalence and levels of anti-EBNA-1 and anti-VCA IgG antibodies of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in a Spanish cohort of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and their interactions with other environmental and genetic risk factors. 2. To analyze the association of the evolution of these antibodies with the clinical response to different disease modifying therapies (DMTs) after two-years of follow-up. 3. To assess their possible correlation with the class II HLA alleles as well as with several SNPs identified in GWAS related to disease susceptibility.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We recruited 325 MS patients without DMT (serum samples were collected 1-3 months before starting a therapy) and 295 healthy controls (HC). For each patient we also collected serum samples 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after starting the DMT. EBNA-1 and VCA IgG titers were analyzed by ELISA; 25(OH)D levels were analyzed by immunoassay; HLA DRB1*15:01 allelic variant was analyzed by Taqman technology.RESULTS: 1. 97.8% (318/325) vs. 87.1% (257/295) positives for EBNA-1 in MS patients and HC, respectively (p<0.0001; O.R. = 6.7); 99.7% (324/325) vs. 94.6% (279/295) for VCA in MS patients and HC, respectively (p=0.0001; O.R. = 18.6). All MS patients were positive for EBNA-1 and/or VCA IgG antibodies vs. 280/295 (94.9%) HC (p<0.0001). IgG titers were also significantly higher in MS patients than in HC. 2. We did not find any statistical correlation in the variation of the EBNA-1 and VCA IgG titers between baseline and 24 month visits with the number of relapses, progression, clinical response, NEDA-3 condition or therapeutic failure. 3. When we compared different epidemiological and clinical variables between those with genetic factors associated with lower EBNA-1 IgG titers and all other MS patients, we found MS started 3.5 years later among the first.CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm that MS occurs rarely in absence of EBV. An intriguing association between genetic burden and lower EBNA-1 IgG titers was associated with an earlier age of disease onset. Similar studies with B-cell-targeted therapies should be performed.
Comment in    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2023 Mar 1;207(5):500-502.
The T-box family transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) is present in all vertebrates, with many key roles in the developing mammalian embryo and immune system. Homozygous Eomes mutant mouse embryos exhibit early lethality due to defects in both the embryonic mesendoderm and the extraembryonic trophoblast cell lineage. In contrast, zebrafish lacking the predominant Eomes homologue A (Eomesa) do not suffer complete lethality and can be maintained. This suggests fundamental differences in either the molecular function of Eomes orthologues or the molecular configuration of processes in which they participate. To explore these hypotheses we initially analysed the expression of distinct Eomes isoforms in various mouse cell types. Next we compared the functional capabilities of these murine isoforms to zebrafish Eomesa. These experiments provided no evidence for functional divergence. Next we examined the functions of zebrafish Eomesa and other T-box family members expressed in early development, as well as its paralogue Eomesb. Though Eomes is a member of the Tbr1 subfamily we found evidence for functional redundancy with the Tbx6 subfamily member Tbx16, known to be absent from eutherians. However, Tbx16 does not appear to synergise with Eomesa cofactors Mixl1 and Gata5. Finally, we analysed the ability of Eomesa and other T-box factors to induce zebrafish left-right organiser progenitors (known as dorsal forerunner cells) known to be positively regulated by vgll4l, a gene we had previously shown to be repressed by Eomesa. Here we demonstrate that Eomesa indirectly upregulates vgll4l expression via interlocking feedforward loops, suggesting a role in establishment of left-right asymmetry. Conversely, other T-box factors could not similarly induce left-right organiser progenitors. Overall these findings demonstrate conservation of Eomes molecular function and participation in similar processes, but differential requirements across evolution due to additional co-expressed T-box factors in teleosts, albeit with markedly different molecular capabilities. Our analyses also provide insights into the role of Eomesa in left-right organiser formation in zebrafish.
Erratum in    Nature. 2022 Dec;612(7940):E12.
Natural Killer (NK) cells play a key role in controlling HIV replication, with potential downstream impact on the size of the HIV reservoir and likelihood of viral rebound after antiretroviral therapy (ART) cessation. It is therefore important to understand how primary HIV infection (PHI) disrupts NK cell function, and how these functions are restored by early ART. We examined the impact of commencing ART during PHI on phenotypic and functional NK cell markers at treatment initiation (baseline), 3 months, 1 year, and 2 years in seven well-characterised participants in comparison to HIV seronegative volunteers. We then examined how those NK cell properties differentially impacted by ART related to time to viral rebound and HIV DNA levels in 44 individuals from the SPARTAC trial who stopped ART after 48 weeks treatment, started during PHI. NK cell markers that were significantly different between the seven people with HIV (PWH) treated for 2 years and HIV uninfected individuals included NKG2C levels in CD56dim NK cells, Tim-3 expression in CD56bright NK cells, IFN-γ expressed by CD56dim NK cells after IL-12/IL-18 stimulation and the fraction of Eomes-/T-bet+ in CD56dim and CD56bright NK cells. When exploring time to viral rebound after stopping ART among the 44 SPARTAC participants, no single NK phenotypic marker correlated with control. Higher levels of IL-12/IL-18 mediated NK cell degranulation at baseline were associated with longer times to viral rebound after treatment interruption (P=0.028). Additionally, we found higher fractions of CD56dim NK cells in individuals with lower levels of HIV DNA (P=0.048). NKG2A and NKp30 levels in CD56neg NK cells were higher in patients with lower HIV DNA levels (p=0.00174, r=-0.49 and p=0.03, r= -0.327, respectively) while CD27 levels were higher in those with higher levels of HIV DNA (p=0.026). These data show NK cell functions are heterogeneously impacted by HIV infection with a mixed picture of resolution on ART, and that while NK cells may affect HIV DNA levels and time to viral rebound, no single NK cell marker defined delayed viral rebound.
T follicular helper (Tfh) cells drive humoral immunity by facilitating B cell responses at the initial and recall phases. Recent studies have indicated the possible involvement of Tfh cells in the process of chronic inflammation. However, the functional role of Tfh cells in persistent immune settings remains unclear. Here, we report that CD4+CD8+ (double-positive, DP; CD3+CD4+CD8+CXCR5hiPD-1hi) Tfh cells, a subset of germinal-center-type Tfh cells, were abundantly present in the fibroinflammatory lesions of patients with immunoglobulin G4-related disease (IgG4-RD). Transcriptome analyses showed that these DP-Tfh cells in the lesions of IgG4-RD preferentially expressed signature genes characteristic of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, such as Eomes, CRTAM, GPR56, and granzymes, in addition to CD70. Scatter diagram analyses to examine the relationships between tissue-resident lymphocytes and various clinical parameters revealed that the levels of DP-Tfh cells were inversely correlated to the levels of serum IgG4 and local IgG4-expressing (IgG4+) memory B cells (CD19+CD27+IgD-) in patients with IgG4-RD. Cell culture experiments using autologous tonsillar lymphocytes further suggested that DP-Tfh cells possess a poor B-cell helper function and instead regulate memory B cells. Since CD4+ (single positive, SP; CD3+CD4+CD8-CXCR5hiPD-1hi) Tfh cells differentiated into DP-Tfh cells under stimulation with IL-2 and IL-7 as assessed by in vitro experiments, these data imply that SP-Tfh cells are a possible origin of DP-Tfh cells under persistent inflammation. These findings highlight the potential feedback loop mechanism of Tfh cells in immune tolerance under chronic inflammatory conditions. Further studies on DP-Tfh cells may facilitate control of unresolved humoral responses in IgG4-RD pathological inflammation.
Most people infected by EBV acquire specific immunity, which then controls latent infection throughout their life. Immune surveillance of EBV-infected cells by cytotoxic CD4+ T cells has been recognized; however, the molecular mechanism of generating cytotoxic effector T cells of the CD4+ subset remains poorly understood. Here we compared phenotypic features and the transcriptome of EBV-specific effector-memory CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells in mice and found that both T cell types show cytotoxicity and, to our surprise, widely similar gene expression patterns relating to cytotoxicity. Similar to cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, EBV-specific cytotoxic CD4+ T cells from human peripheral blood expressed T-bet, Granzyme B, and Perforin and upregulated the degranulation marker, CD107a, immediately after restimulation. Furthermore, T-bet expression in cytotoxic CD4+ T cells was highly correlated with Granzyme B and Perforin expression at the protein level. Thus, differentiation of EBV-specific cytotoxic CD4+ T cells is possibly controlled by mechanisms shared by cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. T-bet-mediated transcriptional regulation may explain the similarity of cytotoxic effector differentiation between CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells, implicating that this differentiation pathway may be directed by environmental input rather than T cell subset.
Two common γ-chain family cytokines IL-2 and IL-15 stimulate the same mammalian target of rapamycin complex-1 (mTORC1) signaling yet induce effector T (TE) and memory T (TM) cell differentiation via a poorly understood mechanism(s). Here, we prepared in vitro IL-2-stimulated TE (IL-2/TE) and IL-15-stimulated TM (IL-15/TM) cells for characterization by flow cytometry, Western blotting, confocal microscopy and Seahorse-assay analyses. We demonstrate that IL-2 and IL-15 stimulate strong and weak mTORC1 signals, respectively, which lead to the formation of CD62 ligand (CD62L)- killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily G member-1 (KLRG)+ IL-2/TE and CD62L+KLRG- IL-15/TM cells with short- and long-term survival following their adoptive transfer into mice. The IL-15/mTORC1Weak signal activates the forkhead box-O-1 (FOXO1), T cell factor-1 (TCF1) and Eomes transcriptional network and the metabolic adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase-α-1 (AMPKα1), Unc-51-like autophagy-activating kinase-1 (ULK1) and autophagy-related gene-7 (ATG7) axis, increasing the expression of mitochondrial regulators aquaporin-9 (AQP9), mitochondrial transcription factor-A (TFAM), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α (PGC1α), carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1 (CPT1α), microtubule-associated protein light chain-3 II (LC3II), Complex I and ortic atrophy-1 (OPA1), leading to promoting mitochondrial biogenesis and fatty-acid oxidation (FAO). Interestingly, AMPKα1 deficiency abrogates these downstream responses to IL-15/mTORC1Weak signaling, leading to the upregulation of mTORC1 and hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), a metabolic switch from FAO to glycolysis and reduced cell survival. Taken together, our data demonstrate that IL-15/mTORC1Weak signaling controls T-cell memory via activation of the transcriptional FOXO1-TCF1-Eomes and metabolic AMPKα1-ULK1-ATG7 pathways, a finding that may greatly impact the development of efficient vaccines and immunotherapies for the treatment of cancer and infectious diseases.
The hippocampus is associated with essential brain functions, such as learning and memory. Human hippocampal volume is significantly greater than expected compared with that of non-human apes, suggesting a recent expansion. Intermediate progenitors, which are able to undergo multiple rounds of proliferative division before a final neurogenic division, may have played a role in evolutionary hippocampal expansion. To investigate the evolution of gene regulatory networks underpinning hippocampal neurogenesis in apes, we leveraged the differentiation of human and chimpanzee induced pluripotent stem cells into TBR2 (or EOMES)-positive hippocampal intermediate progenitor cells (hpIPCs). We found that the gene networks active in hpIPCs are significantly different between humans and chimpanzees, with ∼2500 genes being differentially expressed. We demonstrate that species-specific transposon-derived enhancers contribute to these transcriptomic differences. Young transposons, predominantly endogenous retroviruses and SINE-Vntr-Alus (SVAs), were co-opted as enhancers in a species-specific manner. Human-specific SVAs provided substrates for thousands of novel TBR2-binding sites, and CRISPR-mediated repression of these SVAs attenuated the expression of ∼25% of the genes that are upregulated in human intermediate progenitors relative to the same cell population in the chimpanzee.
BACKGROUND: Interleukin-27 (IL-27) can trigger both pro- and anti-inflammatory responses. This cytokine is elevated in the central nervous system (CNS) of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients, but how it influences neuroinflammatory processes remains unclear. As astrocytes express the receptor for IL-27, we sought to determine how these glial cells respond to this cytokine and whether such exposure alters their interactions with infiltrating activated T lymphocytes. To determine whether inflammation shapes the impact of IL-27, we compared the effects of this cytokine in non-inflamed and inflamed conditions induced by an IL-1β exposure.MAIN BODY: Transcriptomic analysis of IL-27-exposed human astrocytes showed an upregulation of multiple immune genes. Human astrocytes increased the secretion of chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11) and the surface expression of proteins (PD-L1, HLA-E, and ICAM-1) following IL-27 exposure. To assess whether exposure of astrocytes to IL-27 influences the profile of activated T lymphocytes infiltrating the CNS, we used an astrocyte/T lymphocyte co-culture model. Activated human CD4+ or CD8+ T lymphocytes were co-cultured with astrocytes that have been either untreated or pre-exposed to IL‑27 or IL-1β. After 24 h, we analyzed T lymphocytes by flow cytometry for transcription factors and immune molecules. The contact with IL-27-exposed astrocytes increased the percentages of T-bet, Eomes, CD95, IL-18Rα, ICAM-1, and PD-L1 expressing CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes and reduced the proportion of CXCR3-positive CD8+ T lymphocytes. Human CD8+ T lymphocytes co-cultured with human IL-27-treated astrocytes exhibited higher motility than when in contact with untreated astrocytes. These results suggested a preponderance of kinapse-like over synapse-like interactions between CD8+ T lymphocytes and IL-27-treated astrocytes. Finally, CD8+ T lymphocytes from MS patients showed higher motility in contact with IL-27-exposed astrocytes compared to healthy donors' cells.CONCLUSION: Our results establish that IL-27 alters the immune functions of human astrocytes and shapes the profile and motility of encountered T lymphocytes, especially CD8+ T lymphocytes from MS patients.
Domestic cat embryos generated by in vitro fertilization (IVF) and cultured without the zona pellucida have a reduced implantation capacity after embryo transfer at the blastocyst stage. The objective of this study was to evaluate the expression of trophectoderm markers in domestic cat blastocysts cultured without the zona pellucida. Two experimental groups were selected: (1) domestic cat embryos generated by IVF and cultured in vitro normally (zona intact group, ZI); and (2) domestic cat embryos generated by IVF and cultured in vitro without a zona pellucida (zona-free group, ZF). In the ZF group, the zona pellucida of the presumptive zygote was removed and these were cultured using the well of the well (WOW) system. In vitro culture was carried out for 7 days. The cleavage, morula and blastocyst rates were estimated. Finally, the relative expression levels of the trophectoderm markers TEAD4, YAP1, CDX2 and EOMES, the cell adhesion marker E-cadherin and the apoptosis marker CASP3 were evaluated by RT-qPCR in the blastocysts. The Wilcoxon test was used to evaluate differences (P < 0.05). No differences were observed in the cleavage, morula and blastocyst rates between the ZF and ZI groups. No differences were found in the expression of TEAD4, CDX2, E-cadherin and CASP3 between groups. The expression of YAP1 and EOMES was higher in ZF blastocysts than in ZI blastocysts. In conclusion, the in vitro culture without the zona pellucida generates an overexpression of YAP1 and EOMES in the domestic cat blastocysts. More studies are needed to confirm if this overexpression might affect in vivo development.
T cells used in immune cell therapy, represented by T cell receptor therapy (TCR-T), are usually activated and proliferated in vitro and are induced to a terminally differentiated phenotype, with limited viability after transfusion back into the body. T cells exhibited a robust proliferative potential and in vivo viability in the early stages of progressive differentiation. In this study, we identified microRNAs that regulate T cell differentiation. After microRNA sequencing of the four subsets: Naïve T cells (TN), stem cell-like memory T cells (TSCM), central memory T cells (TCM）, and effector memory T cells (TEM), miR-150 was identified as the most highly expressed miRNA among the four subsets and was lowly expressed in the TSCM cells. We predicted the target genes of miR-150 miRNA and performed Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. We observed that the target genes of miR-150 were enriched in pathways associated with T-cell differentiation. FOXP1 and RC3H1 were identified as key target genes of miR-150 in the regulation of T-cell function. We examined the effects of miR-150 on the differentiation and function of healthy donor T-cells. We observed that miR-150 overexpression promoted T-cell differentiation to effector T-cells and effector memory T-cells, enhanced apoptosis, inhibited cell proliferation and increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-γ and TNF-α. In addition, the expressions of early differentiation-related genes (ACTN1, CERS6, BCL2, and EOMES), advanced differentiation-related genes (KLRG1), and effector-function-related genes (PRF1 and GZMB) were significantly decreased after overexpression of miR-150. Collectively, our results suggested that miR-150 can promote progressive differentiation of T cells and the downmodulation of miR-150 expression while performing adoptive immunotherapy may inhibit T-cell differentiation and increase the proliferative potential of T cells.
The frequency of CD4+CD8+ double-positive (DP) T cells is highly associated with a variety of diseases. Recently, we used high-throughput single-cell RNA sequencing to show that circulating DP T cells in cynomolgus monkeys comprise nine heterogeneous populations. To better understand the characteristics of DP T cells, we analyzed 7601 cells from a rhesus monkey and detected 14,459 genes. Rhesus monkey DP T cells comprised heterogeneous populations (naïve, Treg-, Tfh-, CCR9+ Th-, Th17-, Th2-, Eomes+ Tr1-, CTL-, PLZF+ innate- and Eomes+ innate-like cells) with multiple potential functions. We also identified two new subsets using aggregated scRNA-seq datasets from the rhesus and the cynomolgus monkey: CCR9+ Th-like cells expressing ICAM2 and ITGA1, and PLZF+ innate-like cells that display innate-associated gene signatures such as ZBTB16, TYROBP, MAP3K8, and KLRB1. Trajectory inference of cell differentiation status showed that most DP T cells in the rhesus monkey were found in the mid-to-late pseudotime, whereas DP T cells from the cynomolgus monkey were found in early pseudotime. This suggests that DP T cells in rhesus monkeys may exhibit more diverse differentiation states than those in cynomolgus monkeys. Thus, scRNA-seq and trajectory inference identified a more diverse subset of the circulating DP T cells than originally thought.
Despite medical advancements, the prognosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has not improved significantly over the past 50 years. By utilising the large-scale genomic datasets available from the Australia Pancreatic Cancer Project (PACA-AU) and The Cancer Genomic Atlas Project (TCGA-PAAD), we studied the immunophenotype of PDAC in silico and identified that tumours with high cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) killing activity were associated with favourable clinical outcomes. Using the STRING protein-protein interaction network analysis, the identified differentially expressed genes with low CTL killing activity were associated with TWIST/IL-6R, HDAC5, and EOMES signalling. Following Connectivity Map analysis, we identified 44 small molecules that could restore CTL sensitivity in the PDAC cells. Further high-throughput chemical library screening identified 133 inhibitors that effectively target both parental and CTL-resistant PDAC cells in vitro. Since CTL-resistant PDAC had a higher expression of histone proteins and its acetylated proteins compared to its parental cells, we further investigated the impact of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) on CTL-mediated cytotoxicity in PDAC cells in vitro, namely SW1990 and BxPC3. Further analyses revealed that givinostat and dacinostat were the two most potent HDAC inhibitors that restored CTL sensitivity in SW1990 and BxPC3 CTL-resistant cells. Through our in silico and in vitro studies, we demonstrate the novel role of HDAC inhibition in restoring CTL resistance and that combinations of HDACi with CTL may represent a promising therapeutic strategy, warranting its further detailed molecular mechanistic studies and animal studies before embarking on the clinical evaluation of these novel combined PDAC treatments.
Norepinephrine is a key sympathetic neurotransmitter, which acts to suppress CD8 + T cell cytokine secretion and lytic activity by signaling through the β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2). Although ADRB2 signaling is considered generally immunosuppressive, its role in regulating the differentiation of effector T cells in response to infection has not been investigated. Using an adoptive transfer approach, we compared the expansion and differentiation of wild type (WT) to Adrb2-/- CD8 + T cells throughout the primary response to vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) infection in vivo. We measured the dynamic changes in transcriptome profiles of antigen-specific CD8 + T cells as they responded to VSV. Within the first 7 days of infection, WT cells out-paced the expansion of Adrb2-/- cells, which correlated with reduced expression of IL-2 and the IL-2Rα in the absence of ADRB2. RNASeq analysis identified over 300 differentially expressed genes that were both temporally regulated following infection and selectively regulated in WT vs Adrb2-/- cells. These genes contributed to major transcriptional pathways including cytokine receptor activation, signaling in cancer, immune deficiency, and neurotransmitter pathways. By parsing genes within groups that were either induced or repressed over time in response to infection, we identified three main branches of genes that were differentially regulated by the ADRB2. These gene sets were predicted to be regulated by specific transcription factors involved in effector T cell development, such as Tbx21 and Eomes. Collectively, these data demonstrate a significant role for ADRB2 signaling in regulating key transcriptional pathways during CD8 + T cells responses to infection that may dramatically impact their functional capabilities and downstream memory cell development.
Transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) is an important differentiation factor for cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and alters the expression levels of several of homing receptors during infection. SMAD4 is part of the canonical signaling network used by members of the transforming growth factor family. For this study, genetically modified mice were used to determine how SMAD4 and TGFβ receptor II (TGFβRII) participate in transcriptional programming of pathogen-specific CTLs. We show that these molecules are essential components of opposing signaling mechanisms, and cooperatively regulate a collection of genes that determine whether specialized populations of pathogen-specific CTLs circulate around the body, or settle in peripheral tissues. TGFβ uses a canonical SMAD-dependent signaling pathway to downregulate Eomesodermin (EOMES), KLRG1, and CD62L, while CD103 is induced. Conversely, in vivo and in vitro data show that EOMES, KLRG1, CX3CR1, and CD62L are positively regulated via SMAD4, while CD103 and Hobit are downregulated. Intravascular staining also shows that signaling via SMAD4 promotes formation of long-lived terminally differentiated CTLs that localize in the vasculature. Our data show that inflammatory molecules play a key role in lineage determination of pathogen-specific CTLs, and use SMAD-dependent signaling to alter the expression levels of multiple homing receptors and transcription factors with known functions during memory formation.
Apoptosis is a genetically regulated program of cell death that plays a key role in immune disease processes. We identified EBF4, a little-studied member of the early B cell factor (EBF) family of transcription factors, in a whole-genome CRISPR screen for regulators of Fas/APO-1/CD95-mediated T cell death. Loss of EBF4 increases the half-life of the c-FLIP protein, and its presence in the Fas signaling complex impairs caspase-8 cleavage and apoptosis. Transcriptome analysis revealed that EBF4 regulates molecules such as TBX21, EOMES, granzyme, and perforin that are important for human natural killer (NK) and CD8+ T cell functions. Proximity-dependent biotin identification (Bio-ID) mass spectrometry analyses showed EBF4 binding to STAT3, STAT5, and MAP kinase 3 and a strong pathway relationship to interleukin-2 regulated genes, which are known to govern cytotoxicity pathways. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and DNA sequencing analysis defined a canonical EBF4 binding motif, 5'-CCCNNGG/AG-3', closely related to the EBF1 binding site; using a luciferase-based reporter, we found a dose-dependent transcriptional response of this motif to EBF4. We also conducted assay for transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing in EBF4-overexpressing cells and found increased chromatin accessibility upstream of granzyme and perforin and in topologically associated domains in human lymphocytes. Finally, we discovered that the EBF4 has basal expression in human but not mouse NK cells and CD8+ T cells and vanishes following activating stimulation. Together, our data reveal key features of a previously unknown transcriptional regulator of human cytotoxic immune function.
BACKGROUND: Immunosenescence (ISC) describes age-related changes in immune-system composition and function. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a lifelong inflammatory condition involving effector and regulatory T-cell imbalance, yet little is known about T-cell ISC in MS. We examined age-associated changes in circulating T cells in MS compared to normal controls (NC).METHODS: Forty untreated MS (Mean Age 43·3, Range 18-72) and 49 NC (Mean Age 48·6, Range 20-84) without inflammatory conditions were included in cross-sectional design. T-cell subsets were phenotypically and functionally characterized using validated multiparametric flow cytometry. Their aging trajectories, and differences between MS and NC, were determined using linear mixed-effects models.FINDINGS: MS patients demonstrated early and persistent redistribution of naïve and memory CD4 T-cell compartments. While most CD4 and CD8 T-cell aging trajectories were similar between groups, MS patients exhibited abnormal age-associated increases of activated (HLA-DR+CD38+; (P = 0·013) and cytotoxic CD4 T cells, particularly in patients >60 (EOMES: P < 0·001). Aging MS patients also failed to upregulate CTLA-4 expression on both CD4 (P = 0·014) and CD8 (P = 0·009) T cells, coupled with abnormal age-associated increases in frequencies of B cells expressing costimulatory molecules.INTERPRETATION: While many aspects of T-cell aging in MS are conserved, the older MS patients harbour abnormally increased frequencies of CD4 T cells with activated and cytotoxic effector profiles. Age-related decreased expression of T-cell co-inhibitory receptor CTLA-4, and increased B-cell costimulatory molecule expression, may provide a mechanism that drives aberrant activation of effector CD4 T cells that have been implicated in progressive disease.FUNDING: Stated in Acknowledgements section of manuscript.
CD8 T cell exhaustion is a hallmark of HIV-1 infection, characterized by phenotypic and functional CD8 T cell abnormalities that persist despite years of effective antiretroviral treatment (ART). More recently, the importance of cellular metabolism in shaping T cell antiviral function has emerged as a crucial aspect of immunotherapeutics aimed at re-invigorating exhausted CD8 T cells but remains under-investigated in HIV-1 infection. To gain a better insight into this process and identify new targets for effective CD8 T cell restoration we examined the metabolic profile of exhausted CD8 T cells in HIV-1 infection. We show that relative to HIV-1 elite controllers (EC) and HIV-1 seronegative donors, CD8 T cells from HIV-1 viraemic individuals are skewed toward a PD-1hiEOMEShiT-betlowTIGIT+ phenotype that is maintained during ART. This exhausted signature is enriched in HIV-specific CD8 T cells, compared to CMV-specific CD8 T cell populations, and further delineated by higher expression of the glucose transporter, Glut-1, impaired mitochondrial function and biogenesis, reflecting underlying metabolic defects. A notable improvement in antiviral HIV-specific CD8 T cell function was elicited via mitochondrial antioxidant treatment in combination with pharmacological modulation of mitochondrial dynamics and IL-15 treatment. These findings identify mitochondria as promising targets for combined reconstitution therapies in HIV-1 infection.
Embryogenesis is guided by a limited set of signaling pathways dynamically expressed in different places. How a context-dependent signaling response is generated has been a central question of developmental biology, which can now be addressed with in vitro models of human embryos that are derived from embryonic stem cells (hESCs). Our previous work demonstrated that during early stages of hESC differentiation, cells chronicle signaling hierarchy. Only cells that have been exposed (primed) by WNT signaling can respond to subsequent activin exposure and differentiate to mesendodermal (ME) fates. Here, we show that WNT priming does not alter SMAD2 binding nor its chromatin opening but, instead, acts by inducing the expression of the SMAD2 co-factor EOMES. Expression of EOMES is sufficient to replace WNT upstream of activin-mediated ME differentiation, thus unveiling the mechanistic basis for priming and cellular memory in early development.
With continuously increasing living standards and health requirements of consumers, meat quality is becoming an important consideration while buying meat products. To date, no genome-wide association study (GWAS) for copy number variants (CNVs) and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) has been conducted to reveal the genetic effects on meat quality in ducks. This study analyzed the phenotypic correlation and heritability of fat, water, collagen, and protein content of duck breast muscle. To identify the candidate variants for meat quality, we performed a GWAS using 273 ducks from an F2 population. The results of the SNP GWAS showed that the BARHL2, COPS7B, and CCDC50 genes were associated with fat content; BLM, WDR76, and EOMES with water content; CAMTA1, FGD5, GRM7, and RAPGEF5 with collagen production; and RIMS2, HNRNPU, and SPTBN1 with protein content. Additionally, 3, 7, 1, and 3 CNVs were associated with fat, water, collagen, and protein content, respectively, in duck breast muscle. The genes identified in this study can serve as markers for meat quality. Furthermore, our findings may help devise effective breeding plans and selection strategies to improve meat quality.
Thymocyte selection-associated high mobility group box (TOX) has been described to be a key regulator in the formation of CD8+ T cell exhaustion. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection with different lengths of antigen exposure in acute, chronic, and after resolution of HCV infection is the ideal immunological model to study the expression of TOX in HCV-specific CD8+ T cells with different exposure to antigen. HCV-specific CD8+ T cells from 35 HLA-A*01:01, HLA-A*02:01, and HLA-A*24:02 positive patients were analyzed with a 16-color FACS-panel evaluating the surface expression of lineage markers (CD3, CD8), ectoenzymes (CD39, CD73), markers of differentiation (CD45RO, CCR7, CD127), and markers of exhaustion and activation (TIGIT, PD-1, KLRG1, CD226) and transcription factors (TOX, Eomesodermin, T-bet). Here, we defined on-target T cells as T cells against epitopes without escape mutations and off-target T cells as those against a "historical" antigen mutated in the autologous sequence. TOX+HCV-specific CD8+ T cells from patients with chronic HCV and on-target T cells displayed co-expression of Eomesodermin and were associated with the formation of terminally exhausted CD127-PD1hi, CD39hi, CD73low CD8+ T cells. In contrast, TOX+HCV-specific CD8+ T cells in patients with off-target T cells represented a progenitor memory Tex phenotype characterized by CD127hi expression and a CD39low and CD73hi phenotype. TOX+HCV-specified CD8+ T cells in patients with a sustained virologic response were characterized by a memory phenotype (CD127+, CD73hi) and co-expression of immune checkpoints and Eomesodermin, indicating a key structure in priming of HCV-specific CD8+ T cells in the chronic stage, which persisted as a residual after therapy. Overall, the occurrence of TOX+HCV-specific CD8+ T cells was revealed at each disease stage, which impacted the development of progenitor Tex, intermediate Tex, and terminally exhausted T cell through an individual molecular footprint. In sum, TOX is induced early during acute infection but is modulated by changes in viral sequence and antigen recognition. In the case of antigen persistence, the interaction with Eomesodermin leads to the formation of terminally exhausted virus-specific CD8+ T cells, and there was a direct correlation of the co-expression of TOX and Eomes and terminally exhausted phenotype of virus-specific CD8+ T cells.
CRISPR-based systems have fundamentally transformed our ability to study and manipulate stem cells. We explored the possibility of using catalytically dead Cas9 (dCas9) from S. pyogenes as a platform for targeted epigenetic editing in stem cells to enhance the expression of the eomesodermin gene (EOMES) during differentiation. We observed, however, that the dCas9 protein itself exerts a potential non-specific effect in hiPSCs, affecting the cell's phenotype and gene expression patterns during subsequent directed differentiation. We show that this effect is specific to the condition when cells are cultured in medium that does not actively maintain the pluripotency network, and that the sgRNA-free apo-dCas9 protein itself influences endogenous gene expression. Transcriptomics analysis revealed that a significant number of genes involved in developmental processes and various other genes with non-overlapping biological functions are affected by dCas9 overexpression. This suggests a potential adverse phenotypic effect of dCas9 itself in hiPSCs, which could have implications for when and how CRISPR/Cas9-based tools can be used reliably and safely in pluripotent stem cells.
Intracranial aneurysms (IAs) are very rare in children, and the characteristics of the T-cells in the IA wall are largely unknown. A comatose 7-years-old child was admitted to our center because of a subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured giant aneurysm of the right middle cerebral artery. Two days after the aneurysm clipping the patient was fully awake with left hemiparesis. T-cells from the IA wall and from peripheral blood of this patient were analyzed by multi-dimensional flow cytometry. Unbiased analysis, based on the use of FlowSOM clustering and dimensionality reduction technique UMAP, indicated that there was virtually no overlap between circulating and tissue-infiltrating T-cells. Thus, naïve T-cells and canonical memory T-cells were largely restricted to peripheral blood, while CD4-CD8-T-cells were strongly enriched in the IA wall. The unique CD4+, CD8+ and CD4-CD8-T-cell clusters from the IA wall expressed high levels of CCR5, Granzyme B and CD69, displaying thus characteristics of cytotoxic and tissue-resident effector cells. Low Ki67 expression indicated that they were nevertheless in a resting state. Among regulatory T-cell subsets, Eomes+Tr1-like cells were strongly enriched in the IA wall. Finally, analysis of cytokine producing capacities unveiled that the IA wall contained poly-functional T-cells, which expressed predominantly IFN-γ, TNF and IL-2. CD4+T-cells co-expressed also CD40L, and produced some IL-17, GM-CSF and IL-10. This report provides to our knowledge the first detailed characterization of the human T-cell compartment in the IA wall.
Nodal proteins provide crucial signals for mesoderm and endoderm induction. In zebrafish embryos, the nodal genes ndr1/squint and ndr2/cyclops are implicated in mesendoderm induction. It remains elusive how ndr1 and ndr2 expression is regulated spatiotemporally. Here we investigated regulation of ndr1 and ndr2 expression using Mhwa mutants that lack the maternal dorsal determinant Hwa with deficiency in β-catenin signaling, Meomesa mutants that lack maternal Eomesodermin A (Eomesa), Meomesa;Mhwa double mutants, and the Nodal signaling inhibitor SB431542. We show that ndr1 and ndr2 expression is completely abolished in Meomesa;Mhwa mutant embryos, indicating an essential role of maternal eomesa and hwa. Hwa-activated β-catenin signaling plays a major role in activation of ndr1 expression in the dorsal blastodermal margin, while eomesa is mostly responsible for ndr1 expression in the lateroventral margin and Nodal signaling contributes to ventral expansion of the ndr1 expression domain. However, ndr2 expression mainly depends on maternal eomesa with minor or negligible contribution of maternal hwa and Nodal autoregulation. These mechanisms may help understand regulation of Nodal expression in other species.
Actomyosin-mediated cellular contractility is highly conserved for mechanotransduction and signalling. While this phenomenon has been observed in adherent cell models, whether/how contractile forces regulate the function of suspension cells like natural killer (NK) cells during cancer surveillance, is unknown. Here, we demonstrated in coculture settings that the evolutionarily conserved NK cell transcription factor, Eomes, undergoes nuclear shuttling during lung cancer cell surveillance. Biophysical and biochemical analyses revealed mechanistic enhancement of NK cell actomyosin-mediated contractility, which is associated with nuclear flattening, thus enabling nuclear entry of Eomes associated with enhanced NK cytotoxicity. We found that NK cells responded to the presumed immunosuppressive TGFβ in the NK-lung cancer coculture medium to sustain its intracellular contractility through myosin light chain phosphorylation, thereby promoting Eomes nuclear localization. Therefore, our results demonstrate that lung cancer cells provoke NK cell contractility as an early phase activation mechanism and that Eomes is a plausible mechano-responsive protein for increased NK cytotoxicity. There is scope for strategic application of actomyosin-mediated contractility modulating drugs ex vivo, to reinvigorate NK cells prior to adoptive cancer immunotherapy in vivo (177 words).
Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are heterogenous T-cell neoplasms often associated with epigenetic dysregulation. We investigated de novo DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) mutations in common PTCL entities, including angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma and novel molecular subtypes identified within PTCL-not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS) designated as PTCL-GATA3 and PTCL-TBX21. DNMT3A-mutated PTCL-TBX21 cases showed inferior overall survival (OS), with DNMT3A-mutated residues skewed toward the methyltransferase domain and dimerization motif (S881-R887). Transcriptional profiling demonstrated significant enrichment of activated CD8+ T-cell cytotoxic gene signatures in the DNMT3A-mutant PTCL-TBX21 cases, which was further validated using immunohistochemistry. Genomewide methylation analysis of DNMT3A-mutant vs wild-type (WT) PTCL-TBX21 cases demonstrated hypomethylation in target genes regulating interferon-γ (IFN-γ), T-cell receptor signaling, and EOMES (eomesodermin), a master transcriptional regulator of cytotoxic effector cells. Similar findings were observed in a murine model of PTCL with Dnmt3a loss (in vivo) and further validated in vitro by ectopic expression of DNMT3A mutants (DNMT3A-R882, -Q886, and -V716, vs WT) in CD8+ T-cell line, resulting in T-cell activation and EOMES upregulation. Furthermore, stable, ectopic expression of the DNMT3A mutants in primary CD3+ T-cell cultures resulted in the preferential outgrowth of CD8+ T cells with DNMT3AR882H mutation. Single-cell RNA sequencing(RNA-seq) analysis of CD3+ T cells revealed differential CD8+ T-cell subset polarization, mirroring findings in DNMT3A-mutated PTCL-TBX21 and validating the cytotoxic and T-cell memory transcriptional programs associated with the DNMT3AR882H mutation. Our findings indicate that DNMT3A mutations define a cytotoxic subset in PTCL-TBX21 with prognostic significance and thus may further refine pathological heterogeneity in PTCL-NOS and suggest alternative treatment strategies for this subset.
The effector programs of CD8+ memory T cells are influenced by the transcription factors RUNX3, EOMES and T-bet. How these factors define brain-homing CD8+ memory T cells in multiple sclerosis (MS) remains unknown. To address this, we analyzed blood, CSF and brain tissues from MS patients for the impact of differential RUNX3, EOMES and T-bet expression on CD8+ T cell effector phenotypes. The frequencies of RUNX3- and EOMES-, but not T-bet-expressing CD8+ memory T cells were reduced in the blood of treatment-naïve MS patients as compared to healthy controls. Such reductions were not seen in MS patients treated with natalizumab (anti-VLA-4 Ab). We found an additional loss of T-bet in RUNX3-expressing cells, which was associated with the presence of MS risk SNP rs6672420 (RUNX3). RUNX3+EOMES+T-bet- CD8+ memory T cells were enriched for the brain residency-associated markers CCR5, granzyme K, CD20 and CD69 and selectively dominated the MS CSF. In MS brain tissues, T-bet coexpression was recovered in CD20dim and CD69+ CD8+ T cells, and was accompanied by increased coproduction of granzyme K and B. These results indicate that coexpression of RUNX3 and EOMES, but not T-bet, defines CD8+ memory T cells with a pre-existing brain residency-associated phenotype such that they are prone to enter the CNS in MS.
γδ T cells are generally considered innate-like lymphocytes, however, an "adaptive-like" γδ compartment has now emerged. To understand transcriptional regulation of adaptive γδ T cell immunobiology, we combined single-cell transcriptomics, T cell receptor (TCR)-clonotype assignment, ATAC-seq, and immunophenotyping. We show that adult Vδ1+ T cells segregate into TCF7+LEF1+Granzyme Bneg (Tnaive) or T-bet+Eomes+BLIMP-1+Granzyme B+ (Teffector) transcriptional subtypes, with clonotypically expanded TCRs detected exclusively in Teffector cells. Transcriptional reprogramming mirrors changes within CD8+ αβ T cells following antigen-specific maturation and involves chromatin remodeling, enhancing cytokine production and cytotoxicity. Consistent with this, in vitro TCR engagement induces comparable BLIMP-1, Eomes, and T-bet expression in naive Vδ1+ and CD8+ T cells. Finally, both human cytomegalovirus and Plasmodium falciparum infection in vivo drive adaptive Vδ1 T cell differentiation from Tnaive to Teffector transcriptional status, alongside clonotypic expansion. Contrastingly, semi-invariant Vγ9+Vδ2+ T cells exhibit a distinct "innate-effector" transcriptional program established by early childhood. In summary, adaptive-like γδ subsets undergo a pathogen-driven differentiation process analogous to conventional CD8+ T cells.
In addition to cooperatively driving transcriptional programs, emerging evidence supports transcription factors interacting with one another to modulate the outcome of binding events. As such, transcription factor interactions fine-tune the unique gene expression profiles required for developmental progression. Using human-induced pluripotent stem cells as a model of human endoderm lineage commitment, we reveal that GATA6 transiently co-localizes with EOMES at regions associated with non-endodermal lineages and is required for the repression of chromatin opening at these loci. Our results indicate that GATA6-dependent repression of chromatin remodeling, which is potentially mediated via the recruitment of NCOR1 to the EOMES interactome, contributes to definitive endoderm commitment. We anticipate that similar mechanisms are common during human development, furthering our understanding of the complex mechanisms that define cell fate decisions.
Neurodegeneration is a process involving both cell autonomous and non-cell autonomous neuron loss, followed by a collapse of neural networks, but its pathogenesis is poorly understood. We have previously demonstrated that Eomes-positive helper T (Eomes + Th) cells recognizing LINE-1(L1)-derived prototypic antigen ORF1 mediate neurotoxicity associated with the neurodegenerative pathology of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Here, we show that Eomes + Th cells accumulate in the CNS of mouse models of authentic neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), and secrete the neurotoxic granzyme B after encounter with ORF1 antigen. Multimodal derepression of neuronal L1 transcription is observed in EAE and ALS/AD models during neurodegeneration in active and cell cycle-mediated manner, respectively. These data suggest that the adventitious concurrence of immune-mediated neurodegenerative traits by Eomes + Th cells and ectopic expression of L1-derived antigen(s) in the inflamed CNS may materialize a communal and previously unappreciated pathogenesis of neurodegeneration.
HER2 positive BC is heterogeneous. But few studies discussed the classification of HER2-positive BC based on immune-related signatures. Using three publicly BC genomics datasets, we classified HER2 positive BC based on 33 immune-related signatures and used unsupervised machine learning methods to predict and perform the classification. We grouped three HER2-positive BC subtypes that we called Immune-High (IM-H), Immune-Medium (IM-M), and Immune-Low (IM-L), and manifested this categorization was predictable, duplicable and reliable by analyzing another dataset. Compared to other subtypes, IM-H had a higher immune cell infiltration level and stronger anti-tumor immune activities, as well as better clinical survival outcome. Besides these signatures, there were some cancer-related pathways which were hyperactivated in IM-H, including cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, antigen processing and presentation pathways, natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity, Th1 and Th2 cell differentiation, chemokine signaling pathway, Th17 cell differentiation, B and T cell receptor signaling, NF-kappa B signaling, PD-L1 expression and PD-1 checkpoint pathway in cancer, TNF signaling, IL-17 signaling, NOD-like receptor signaling and Toll-like receptor signaling. By contrast, IM-L showed depressed immune-related signatures and enhanced activation of lycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchor biosynthesis and mismatch repair. Moreover, we discovered a gene co-expression network focused on eight transcription factor genes (EOMES, TBX21, GFI1, IRF4, POU2AF1, CIITA, FOXP3 and TOX) and one tumor suppress gene (PRF1), which were closely related with tumor immune. We identified three HER2-positive BC subtypes based on immune-related signatures, which had potential clinical implications and promoted the optimal stratification of HER2-positive BC responsive to immunotherapy.
CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and CD4+ helper T (Th) cells play a critical role in protective immune responses to tumor cells. Particularly, Th9 cells exert anti-tumor activity by producing IL-9. TNF receptor (TNFR)-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) is an adaptor protein that mediates the signals from both the TNFR superfamily and Toll-like receptors (TLRs). We have previously reported that T cell-specific TRAF6-deficent (TRAF6ΔT) mice spontaneously developed systemic inflammatory diseases. However, the physiological role of TRAF6 in T cells in controlling anti-tumor immune responses remains largely unclear. Here, we found that tumor formation of syngeneic colon cancer cells inoculated in TRAF6ΔT mice was accelerated compared to that in control mice. Although TRAF6-deficient naïve T cells showed enhanced differentiation of Th9 cells in vitro, these T cells produced lower amounts of IL-9 in response to a specific antigen. Moreover, CD4+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in tumor-bearing TRAF6ΔT mice expressed lower levels of IL-9 than those in WT mice. Importantly, administration of recombinant IL-9 (rIL-9) strongly suppressed tumor progression in TRAF6ΔT mice. Furthermore, expression levels of the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) and its target molecules IFN-γ, granzyme B and perforin, as well as cytotoxic activity, were reduced in TRAF6-deficient CD8+ T cells in vitro. TRAF6-deficient T cells were found to express significantly increased levels of immune checkpoint molecules, CTLA-4 and PD-1 on the cell surface. These results demonstrate that the TRAF6 signaling pathway in T cells regulates anti-tumor immunity through the activation of tumor specific Th9 cells and CTLs in a tumor microenvironment.
As a widely studied adoptive treatment method, CIK (cytokine-induced killer cells) treatment has shown clinical benefits in many clinical trials on non-small cell lung cancer. As a heterogeneous cell population, however, CIK cells have a strong instability and individual differences in their efficacies, which are collaboratively regulated by the tumor microenvironment and CIK subpopulations. Among them, CD4+ T cells belong to a crucial subgroup of the CIK cell population, and their influence on CIK therapy is still unclear. Herein, we show how CD4+ T cells positively regulate the functions of CD3+CD56+ T and CD3+CD8+ T cells. During this process, we found that Th1/Th17 CD4+ subgroups can induce the phosphorylation of the AKT pathway by secreting IL-17A, and upregulate the expression of T-bet/Eomes transcription factors, thereby restoring the function of CD8+/CD3+CD56+ T cells and reversing the exhaustion of PD-1+Tim-3+ T cells. These findings will provide guidance for the clinical screening of suitable populations for CIK treatment and formulation of strategies for CIK therapy plus immune checkpoint treatment. Based on these findings, we are conducting an open-label phase II study (NCT04836728) is to evaluate the effects of autologous CIKs in combination with PD-1 inhibitor in the first-line treatment of IV NSCLC, and hope to observe patients' benefits in this clinical trial.
Distinguishing between conserved and divergent regulatory mechanisms is essential for translating preclinical research from mice to humans, yet there is a lack of information about how evolutionary genome rearrangements affect the regulation of the immune response, a rapidly evolving system. The current model is topologically associating domains (TADs) are conserved between species, buffering evolutionary rearrangements and conserving long-range interactions within a TAD. However, we find that TADs frequently span evolutionary translocation and inversion breakpoints near genes with species-specific expression in immune cells, creating unique enhancer-promoter interactions exclusive to the mouse or human genomes. This includes TADs encompassing immune-related transcription factors, cytokines, and receptors. For example, we uncover an evolutionary rearrangement that created a shared LPS-inducible regulatory module between OASL and P2RX7 in human macrophages that is absent in mice. Therefore, evolutionary genome rearrangements disrupt TAD boundaries, enabling sequence-conserved enhancer elements from divergent genomic locations between species to create unique regulatory modules.
BACKGROUND: People living with HIV (PLWH) have increased risk of developing cancers after controlling traditional risk factors and viral suppression. This study explores whether T cells can serve as a marker of risk for cancer among HIV-infected virally suppressed patients.METHODS: A nested case control study design was pursued with 17 cancer cases and 73 controls (PLWH without cancer)ouidentified among the US Military HIV Natural History Study cohort, and were matched for CD4 + count, duration of HIV infection, and viral suppression. Cells were obtained from PLWH on an average of 12 months prior to clinical cancer diagnosis. Expression of inhibitory receptors (PD-1, CD160, CD244, Lag-3, and TIGIT), and transcription factors (T-bet, Eomesodermin, TCF-1, and (TOX) was measured on CD8 +T cells from that early time point.RESULTS: We found that cases have increased expression of PD-1 +CD160+CD244+ ('triple positive') on total and effector CD8 + compared with controls (p=0.02). Furthermore, CD8 +T cells that were both PD-1 +CD160+CD244+ and T-betdimEomeshi were significantly elevated in cases at time point before cancer detection, compared with controls without cancer (p=0.008). This was driven by the finding that transcriptional factor profile of cells was altered in cancers compared with controls. Triple-positive cells were noted to retain the ability for cytotoxicity and cytokine secretion mediated by expression of CD160 and PD-1, respectively. However, triple-positive cells demonstrated high expression of TOX-1, a transcription factor associated with T cell exhaustion.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, we have found a subset of dysfunctional CD8 +T cells, PD-1 +CD160+CD244+T-betdimEomeshi, that is elevated 12 months before cancer diagnosis, suggesting that peripheral T cell alterations may serve as a biomarker of increased cancer risk among PLWH.
The complex process of placental implantation and development affects trophoblast progenitors and uterine cells through the regulation of transcription factors, cytokines, adhesion receptors and their ligands. Differentiation of trophoblast precursors in the trophectoderm of early ontogenesis, caused by the transcription factors, such as CDX2, TEAD4, Eomes and GATA3, leads to the formation of cytotrophoblast and syncytiotrophoblast populations. The molecular mechanisms involved in placental formation inside the human body along with the specification and differentiation of trophoblast cell lines are, mostly due to the lack of suitable cell models, not sufficiently elucidated. This review is an evaluation of current technologies, which are used to study the behavior of human trophoblasts and other placental cells, as well as their ability to represent physiological conditions both in vivo and in vitro. An in vitro 3D model with a characteristic phenotype is of great benefit for the study of placental physiology. At the same time, it provides great support for future modeling of placental disease.
IL-27 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine that triggers enhanced antitumor immunity, particularly cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses. In the present study, we sought to develop IL-27 into a therapeutic adjutant for adoptive T cell therapy using our well-established models. We have found that IL-27 directly improved the survival status and cytotoxicity of adoptive OT-1 CD8+ T cells in vitro and in vivo. Meanwhile, IL-27 treatment programs memory T cell differentiation in CD8+ T cells, characterized by upregulation of genes associated with T cell memory differentiation (T-bet, Eomes, Blimp1, and Ly6C). Additionally, we engineered the adoptive OT-1 CD8+ T cells to deliver IL-27. In mice, the established tumors treated with OT-1 CD8+ T-IL-27 were completely rejected, which demonstrated that IL-27 delivered via tumor antigen-specific T cells enhances adoptive T cells' cancer immunity. To our knowledge, this is the first application of CD8+ T cells as a vehicle to deliver IL-27 to treat tumors. Thus, this study demonstrates IL-27 is a feasible approach for enhancing CD8+ T cells' antitumor immunity and can be used as a therapeutic adjutant for T cell adoptive transfer to treat cancer.
Retinal ganglion cells expressing the photopigment melanopsin are intrinsically photosensitive (ipRGCs). ipRGCs regulate subconscious non-image-forming behaviors such as circadian rhythms, pupil dilation, and light-mediated mood. Previously, we and others showed that the transcription factor Tbr2 (EOMES) is required during retinal development for the formation of ipRGCs. Tbr2 is also expressed in the adult retina leading to the hypothesis that it plays a role in adult ipRGC function. To test this, we removed Tbr2 in adult mice. We found that this results in the loss of melanopsin expression in ipRGCs but does not lead to cell death or morphological changes to their dendritic or axonal termination patterns. Additionally, we found ectopic expression of Tbr2 in conventional RGCs does not induce melanopsin expression but can increase melanopsin expression in existing ipRGCs. An interesting feature of ipRGCs is their superior survival relative to conventional RGCs after an optic nerve injury. We find that loss of Tbr2 decreases the survival rate of ipRGCs after optic nerve damage suggesting that Tbr2 plays a role in ipRGC survival after injury. Lastly, we show that the GABAergic amacrine cell marker Meis2, is expressed in the majority of Tbr2-expressing displaced amacrine cells as well as in a subset of Tbr2-expressing RGCs. These findings demonstrate that Tbr2 is necessary but not sufficient for melanopsin expression, that Tbr2 is involved in ipRGC survival after optic nerve injury, and identify a marker for Tbr2-expressing displaced amacrine cells.
Previous studies have shown that eukaryotic elongation factor 1A2 (eEF1A2) serves as an essential heart-specific translation elongation element and that its mutation or knockout delays heart development and causes congenital heart disease and death among species. However, the function and regulatory mechanisms of eEF1A2 in mammalian heart development remain largely unknown. Here we identified the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) Cpmer (cytoplasmic mesoderm regulator), which interacted with eEF1A2 to co-regulate differentiation of mouse and human embryonic stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes. Mechanistically, Cpmer specifically recognized Eomes mRNA by RNA-RNA pairing and facilitated binding of eEF1A2 with Eomes mRNA, guaranteeing Eomes mRNA translation and cardiomyocyte differentiation. Our data reveal a novel functionally conserved lncRNA that can specifically regulate Eomes translation and cardiomyocyte differentiation, which broadens our understanding of the mechanism of lncRNA involvement in the subtle translational regulation of eEF1A2 during mammalian heart development.
Comment in    Sci Immunol. 2022 Apr 8;7(70):eabo2159.
BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy has demonstrated a limited clinical efficacy in approximately 5% of cholangiocarcinoma. The main challenges for an effective immunotherapy response in cholangiocarcinoma arise from the tumor microenvironment, which is poorly understood.METHODS: For a comprehensive analysis of the tumor microenvironment in cholangiocarcinoma, we performed multiplex immunohistochemistry with two 15-marker immune panels and Nanostring assays for a comprehensive analysis of 104 surgically resected cholangiocarcinomas including intrahepatic, hilar, and distal cholangiocarcinoma. We also validated some key findings with a batch integration analysis of published single cell RNA sequencing data.RESULTS: This study found that natural killer cells occupy the largest immune cell compartment in cholangiocarcinoma. Granzyme-B+CD8+ effector T cells are significantly associated with better overall survival in both intrahepatic and distal cholangiocarcinoma. Above 85% of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas with higher density of PD-1-EOMES-CD8+ effector T cells are associated with long-term survival. However, only the density of PD-1-EOMES-CD8+ T cells in the tumor areas, but not in the peripheries of the tumors, is prognostic. In all three cholangiocarcinoma subtypes, T regulator cells are significantly associated with a poor prognosis; however, M1 and M2 tumor-associated macrophages or PD-L1+ tumor-associated macrophage demonstrate different prognostic values. Combining PD-L1+ M1 or M2, PD-L1- M1 or M2 tumor-associated macrophages, and T regulator cells to subgroup intrahepatic and distal cholangiocarcinoma, the prognosis is significantly better distinguished. Moreover, PD-L1- M2 tumor-associated macrophages is associated with a good prognosis in intrahepatic and distal cholangiocarcinoma, suggesting this subtype of M2 tumor-associated macrophages may be antitumoral. Interestingly, lower densities of various types of immunosuppressive cells are associated with decreased infiltration of effector T cells in distal and hilar cholangiocarcinoma, but not in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. In intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, PD-L1+ tumor-associated macrophages exert their immunosuppressive function likely through promoting T cell exhaustion.CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that the densities of Granzyme-B+CD8+ effector T cells and non-exhausted PD-1-EOMES-CD8+ T cells and the PD-L1 status in the tumor-associated macrophages are prognostic makers in cholangiocarcinomas. The study also supports targeting PD-L1+ tumor-associated macrophages as the immunotherapy for cholangiocarcinoma.
Optimal transcriptional programming needed for CD4 T cells to protect against influenza A virus (IAV) is unclear. Most IAV-primed CD4 T cells fit Th1 criteria. However, cells deficient for the Th1 "master regulator," T-bet, although marked by reduced Th1 identity, retain robust protective capacity. In this study, we show that T-bet's paralog, Eomesodermin (Eomes), is largely redundant in the presence of T-bet but is essential for the residual Th1 attributes of T-bet-deficient cells. Cells lacking both T-bet and Eomes instead develop concurrent Th17 and Th2 responses driven by specific inflammatory signals in the infected lung. Furthermore, the transfer of T-bet- and Eomes-deficient Th17, but not Th2, effector cells protects mice from lethal IAV infection. Importantly, these polyfunctional Th17 effectors do not display functional plasticity in vivo promoting gain of Th1 attributes seen in wild-type Th17 cells, which has clouded evaluation of the protective nature of Th17 programming in many studies. Finally, we show that primary and heterosubtypic IAV challenge is efficiently cleared in T-bet- and Eomes double-deficient mice without enhanced morbidity despite a strongly Th17-biased inflammatory response. Our studies thus demonstrate unexpectedly potent antiviral capacity of unadulterated Th17 responses against IAV, with important implications for vaccine design.
Ability of IL-17-producing CD8+ T cells (Tc17) to transform into cytotoxic anti-tumour effectors makes them a promising candidate for immune effector cell (IEC) therapy. However, key factors regulating Tc17 reprogramming remain poorly defined, hindering translation of Tc17-based IEC use from bench to bedside. We probed the effects of multiple cytokines and underlying signalling pathways on Tc17 cells and identified pivotal role for IL-4 and PI3K/AKT in promoting Tc17 transformation into cytotoxic IFN-γ-producing IECs, an effect dependent on Eomes expression. IL-4 not only triggered Tc17 cytotoxicity, but also induced cell expansion, which significantly improved the antitumour potential of Tc17 cells compared to that of IFN-γ-producing CD8+ T cells (Tc1) in a murine model. Furthermore, IL-4/AKT signalling drove the upregulation of the T-cell receptor-associated transmembrane adaptor 1 (Trat1) in Tc17 cells to promote IL-4-induced T-cell receptor stabilization and Tc17 cytotoxicity. Finally, we proposed a possible procedure to expand human Tc17 from peripheral blood of cancer patients, and confirmed the function of IL-4 in Tc17 reprogramming. Collectively, these results document a novel IL-4/AKT/Eomes/Trat1 axis that promotes expansion and transformation of Tc17 cells into cytotoxic effectors with a therapeutic potential. IL-4 priming of Tc17 cells should be further explored as a cell therapy engineering strategy to generate IECs to augment anti-tumour responses.
Update of    bioRxiv. 2021 Apr 27;:
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) that express NK cell receptors (NCRs) and the transcription factor T-bet populate nonlymphoid tissues and are crucial in immune responses against viral infections and malignancies. Recent studies highlighted the heterogeneity of this ILC population and extended their functional spectrum to include important roles in tissue homeostasis and autoimmunity. In this article, we provide detailed profiling of NCR+T-bet+ ILC populations in the murine kidney, identifying conventional NK (cNK) cells and type 1 ILCs (ILC1s) as the two major subsets. Induction of renal inflammation in a mouse model of glomerulonephritis did not substantially influence abundance or phenotype of cNK cells or ILC1s in the kidney. For functional analyses in this model, widely used depletion strategies for total NCR+ ILCs (anti-NK1.1 Ab application) and cNK cells (anti-asialoGM1 serum application) were unreliable tools, because they were accompanied by significant off-target depletion of kidney NKT cells and CD8+ T cells, respectively. However, neither depletion of cNK cells and ILC1s in NKT cell-deficient mice nor specific genetic deletion of cNK cells in Ncr1 Cre/wt × Eomes fl/fl mice altered the clinical course of experimental glomerulonephritis. In summary, we show in this article that cNK cells and ILC1s are dispensable for initiation and progression of immune-mediated glomerular disease and advise caution in the use of standard Ab depletion methods to study NCR+ ILC function in mouse models.
Aging is associated with a massive infiltration of T lymphocytes in the lacrimal gland. Here, we aimed to characterize the immune phenotype of aged CD4+ T cells in this tissue as compared with lymphoid organs. To perform this, we sorted regulatory T cells (Tregs, CD4+CD25+GITR+) and non-Tregs (CD4+CD25negGITRneg) in lymphoid organs from female C57BL/6J mice and subjected these cells to an immunology NanoString® panel. These results were confirmed by flow cytometry, live imaging, and tissue immunostaining in the lacrimal gland. Importantly, effector T helper 1 (Th1) genes were highly upregulated on aged Tregs, including the master regulator Tbx21. Among the non-Tregs, we also found a significant increase in the levels of EOMESmed/high, TbetnegIFN-γ+, and CD62L+CD44negCD4+ T cells with aging, which are associated with cell exhaustion, immunopathology, and the generation of tertiary lymphoid tissue. At the functional level, aged Tregs from lymphoid organs are less able to decrease proliferation and IFN-γ production of T responders at any age. More importantly, human lacrimal glands (age range 55-81 years) also showed the presence of CD4+Foxp3+ cells. Further studies are needed to propose potential molecular targets to avoid immune-mediated lacrimal gland dysfunction with aging.
Natural killer (NK) cells are involved in providing immunity against autoimmune diseases and perpetuation of a successful pregnancy in addition to protecting us from viral infections and providing tumor immunity. NK cells are present in various organs such as spleen, blood, lymph nodes, skin, liver and uterus and differential expression of transcription factors in divergent subsets of NK cells lead to differences in their cytotoxicity and cytokine profile. Tissue-specific expression and regulation of the TFs involved, has a profound effect on the cytokine profile and surface markers on NK cells, thus impacting NK cell function. Nfil-3, Id-2, Ets-1, GATA-3, and Eomes are TFs varying in abundance in peripheral NK (pNK) and uterine NK cells (uNK), which further highlights the functional variations in the two subsets of NK cells. GATA-3 mediated regulation of IFN-γ production, NK cell maturation, protection against pathogens, and regulation of expression of inhibitory NK cell receptor (NKG2A), exemplifies a potential mechanism for immune-modulation, involving NK cells. This review highlights the differences in the regulation of TFs in pNK and uNK cells, which can be crucial for development of novel immune-therapeutics.
Commitment to the CD4+ or CD8+ T cell lineages is linked to the acquisition of a functional program broadly defined by helper and cytotoxic properties, respectively. The mechanisms underlying these processes in the human thymus remain largely unclear. Moreover, recent thymic emigrants are thought to have some degree of plasticity, which may be important for the shaping of the immune system and adjustment to specific peripheral needs. We show here that IL-4 induces proliferation-independent de novo synthesis of CD8αβ in human CD4 single-positive (SP) thymocytes, generating a stable CD8SP population that features a diverse TCRαβ repertoire, CD4 expression shut-down and ThPOK downregulation. IL-4 also promotes an innate-like program in both CD4SP and CD8SP thymocytes, characterized by Eomes upregulation in the absence of T-bet, in line with its recognized role in the generation of thymic innate-like CD8+ T cells. The clinical relevance of these findings is further supported by the profile of IL-4 production and IL-4 receptor expression that we identified in the human thymus. Importantly, human cord blood CD4+ T cells preserve the ability to generate Eomes+ CD8+ T cells in the presence of IL-4, with implications in neonatal immunity. Our results support a role for IL-4 in the dynamic regulation of human thymocyte plasticity and identify novel strategies to modulate immune responses.
Human NK cells are comprised of phenotypic subsets, whose potentially unique functions remain largely unexplored. C-X-C-motif-chemokine-receptor-6 (CXCR6) + NK cells have been identified as phenotypically immature tissue-resident NK cells in mice and humans. A small fraction of peripheral blood (PB)-NK cells also expresses CXCR6. However, prior reports about their phenotypic and functional plasticity are conflicting. In this study, we isolated, expanded, and phenotypically and functionally evaluated CXCR6+ and CXCR6- PB-NK cells, and contrasted results to bulk liver and spleen NK cells. We found that CXCR6+ and CXCR6- PB-NK cells preserved their distinct phenotypic profiles throughout 14 days of in vitro expansion ("day 14"), after which phenotypically immature CXCR6+ PB-NK cells became functionally equivalent to CXCR6- PB-NK cells. Despite a consistent reduction in CD16 expression and enhanced expression of the transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes), day 14 CXCR6+ PB-NK cells had superior antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) compared to CXCR6- PB-NK cells. Further, bulk liver NK cells responded to IL-15, but not IL-2 stimulation, with STAT-5 phosphorylation. In contrast, bulk splenic and PB-NK cells robustly responded to both cytokines. Our findings may allow for the selection of superior NK cell subsets for infusion products increasingly used to treat human diseases.
Th17 cells are implicated in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases. During the inflammation, Th17 cells exposed to IL-12 can shift towards the Th1 phenotype. These shifted cells are defined as 'non-classic Th1 cells'. Th17-derived non-classic Th1 cells play a critical role in late-onset chronic inflammatory diseases and are more pathogenic than the unshifted Th17 cells. Eomes is a transcription factor highly expressed in non-classic Th1 cells. To study the functional role of Eomes without genetic alteration, novel recombinant protein, ntEomes-TMD, was generated by fusing TMD of Eomes and Hph-1-PTD that facilitate intracellular delivery of its cargo molecule. ntEomes-TMD was delivered into the nucleus of the cells without influencing the T cell activation and cytotoxicity. ntEomes-TMD specifically inhibited the Eomes- and ROR-γt-mediated transcription and suppressed the Th1 and Th17 differentiation. Interestingly, ntEomes-TMD blocked the generation of non-classic Th1 cells from Th17 cells, leading to the inhibition of IFN-γ and GM-CSF secretion. In EAE, ntEomes-TMD alleviated the symptoms of EAE, and the combination treatment using ntEomes-TMD and anti-IL-17 mAb together showed better therapeutic efficacy than anti-IL-17 mAb treatment. The results suggest that ntEomes-TMD can be a new therapeutic reagent for treating chronic inflammatory diseases associated with non-classic Th1 cells.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are important for tissue immune homeostasis, and are thoroughly characterized in mice and humans. Here, we have performed in-depth characterization of rat ILCs. Rat ILCs were identified based on differential expression of transcription factors and lack of lineage markers. ILC3s represented the major ILC population of the small intestine, while ILC2s were infrequent but most prominent in liver and adipose tissue. Two major subsets of group 1 ILCs were defined. Lineage- T-bet+ Eomes+ cells were identified as conventional NK cells, while lineage- T-bet+ Eomes- cells were identified as the probable rat counterpart of ILC1s based on their selective expression of the ILC marker CD200R. Rat ILC1s were particularly abundant in liver and intestinal tissues, and were functionally similar to NK cells. Single-cell transcriptomics of spleen and liver cells confirmed the main division of NK cells and ILC1-like cells, and demonstrated Granzyme A as an additional ILC1 marker. We further report differential distributions of NK cells and ILCs along the small and large intestines, and the association of certain bacterial taxa to frequencies of ILCs. In conclusion, we provide a framework for future studies of ILCs in diverse rat experimental models, and novel data on the potential interplay between commensals and intestinal ILCs.
T-bet and Eomes are two related transcription factors (TFs) that regulate the differentiation of cytotoxic lymphocytes such as Natural Killer (NK) cells and CD8 T cells. Recent genome-wide analyses suggest they have complementary roles in instructing the transcriptional program of NK cells, although their DNA binding sites appear to be very similar. In this essay, we discuss the mechanisms that could specify their action, addressing their expression profile, the cofactors they interact with, as well as their roles in the epigenetic regulation of chromatin accessibility. Based on the recent literature on these TFs, we propose different models to describe how they regulate gene expression in NK cells at steady state, or in the context of activation or exhaustion. We also discuss recent findings in the field of CD8 T cell differentiation and residency, where Eomes and T-bet appear to be major regulators, and the parallels that can be drawn between mechanisms of NK and CD8 T cell differentiation and trafficking.
Energy sensors mTORC1 and AMPKα1 regulate T-cell metabolism and differentiation, while rapamycin (Rapa)-inhibition of mTORC1 (RIM) promotes T-cell memory. However, the underlying pathway and the role of AMPKα1 in Rapa-induced T-cell memory remain elusive. Using genetic and pharmaceutical tools, we demonstrate that Rapa promotes T-cell memory in mice in vivo post Listeria monocytogenesis rLmOVA infection and in vitro transition of effector T (TE) to memory T (TM) cells. IL-2- and IL-2+Rapa-stimulated T [IL-2/T and IL-2(Rapa+)/T] cells, when transferred into mice, differentiate into short-term IL-7R-CD62L-KLRG1+ TE and long-lived IL-7R+CD62L+KLRG1- TM cells, respectively. To assess the underlying pathways, we performed Western blotting, confocal microscopy and Seahorse-assay analyses using IL-2/T and IL-2(Rapa+)/T-cells. We determined that IL-2(Rapa+)/T-cells activate transcription FOXO1, TCF1 and Eomes and metabolic pAMPKα1(T172), pULK1(S555) and ATG7 molecules and promote mitochondrial biogenesis and fatty-acid oxidation (FAO). We found that rapamycin-treated AMPKα-deficient AMPKα1-KO IL-2(Rapa+)/TM cells up-regulate transcription factor HIF-1α and induce a metabolic switch from FAO to glycolysis. Interestingly, despite the rapamycin treatment, AMPKα-deficient TM cells lost their cell survival capacity. Taken together, our data indicate that rapamycin promotes T-cell memory via transcriptional FOXO1-TCF1-Eomes programs and AMPKα1-ULK1-ATG7 metabolic axis, and that AMPKα1 plays a critical role in RIM-induced T-cell memory.
Effector T cells, which are abundant but are short-lived after reinfusion into the body, are generally used for T-cell therapy, and antitumor immunity is typically not maintained over the long term. Genetic modification by early differentiated T cells and reinfusion has been shown to enhance antitumor immunity in vivo. This study overexpressed the characteristic transcription factors of differentiated early T cells by transfecting effector T cells with transcription factor recombinant lentivirus (S6 group: BCL6, EOMES, FOXP1, LEF1, TCF7, KLF7; S1 group: BCL6, EOMES, FOXP1, KLF7; S3 group: BCL6, EOMES, FOXP1, LEF1) to induce a sufficient number of effector T cells to dedifferentiate and optimize the transcription factor system. The results revealed that overexpression of early characteristic transcription factors in effector T cells upregulated the expression of early T cell differentiation markers (CCR7 and CD62L), with the S1 group having the highest expression level, while the rising trend of late differentiation marker (CD45RO) expression was suppressed. Moreover, the expression of early differentiation-related genes (ACTN1, CERS6, BCL2) was significantly increased, while the expression of late differentiation-related genes (KLRG-1) and effector function-related genes (GNLY, GZMB, PRF1) was significantly decreased; this difference in expression was more significant in the S1 group than in the other two experimental groups. The antiapoptotic ability of each experimental group was significantly enhanced, while the secretion ability of TNF-α and IFN-γ was weakened, with the effector cytokine secretion ability of the S1 group being the weakest. Transcriptomic analysis showed that the gene expression profile of each experimental group was significantly different from that of the control group, with differences in the gene expression pattern and number of differentially expressed genes in the S1 group compared with the other two experimental groups. The differentially expressed gene enrichment pathways were basically related to the cell cycle, cell division, and immune function. In conclusion, overexpression of early characteristic transcription factors in effector T cells induces their dedifferentiation, and induction of dedifferentiation by the S1 group may be more effective.
Granulosa cells (GCs) are decisive players in follicular development. In this study, the follicle tissues and GCs were isolated from the goose during the peak-laying period to perform hematoxylin-eosin staining and RNA-seq, respectively. Moreover, the dynamic mRNA and lncRNA expression profiles and mRNA-lncRNA network analysis were integrated to identify the important genes and lncRNAs. The morphological analysis showed that the size of the GCs did not significantly change, but the thickness of the granulosa layer cells differed significantly across the developmental stages. Subsequently, 14,286 mRNAs, 3,956 lncRNAs, and 1,329 TUCPs (transcripts with unknown coding potential) were detected in the GCs. We identified 37 common DEGs in the pre-hierarchical and hierarchical follicle stages, respectively, which might be critical for follicle development. Moreover, 3,089 significant time-course DEGs (Differentially expressed genes) and 13 core genes in 4 clusters were screened during goose GCs development. Finally, the network lncRNA G8399 with CADH5 and KLF2, and lncRNA G8399 with LARP6 and EOMES were found to be important for follicular development in GCs. Thus, the results would provide a rich resource for elucidating the reproductive biology of geese and accelerate the improvement of the egg-laying performance of geese.
Persistent infection with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) can aggravate the state of immune tolerance, inhibit the function of immune cells, and even lead to immune cell exhaustion in the liver microenvironment. The dysfunction of immune cells causes HBV to escape immune surveillance and eradication. Increasing evidence has revealed the molecular and cellular mechanisms of the induction of T-cell exhaustion during chronic viral persistence. However, the exact mechanisms of T cell exhaustion during chronic persistence of HBV infection are not fully understood. In this study, we analyzed the expression of inhibitory receptors and the exhausted status of liver T cells in a murine model with persistent HBV. We observed higher expression of the inhibitory receptors PD-1, LAG-3, and CD160 on liver CD8+ T cells accompanied by lower production of IFN-γ and TNF-α in HBV persistence mice. T cell-specific deficiency of the transcription factor Eomes significantly decreased the expression of the inhibitory receptors, restored the cytokine production of hepatic CD8+ T cells, and promoted HBV clearance. Similar phenomena were observed in peripheral blood CD8+ T cells from CHB patients. Mechanistically, Eomes not only directly promoted CD160 expression but also indirectly facilitated the coexpression of inhibitory receptors (PD-1, LAG-3, CD160) and T cell exhaustion by enhancing the transcription capacity of other key transcription factors (NFATc1, Blimp1, and FoxO1). These findings provide insight into the transcriptional regulation mechanisms of T cell exhaustion during chronic persistence of HBV and suggest novel therapeutic targets to reverse T cell exhaustion and eradicate HBV persistence.
BACKGROUND: Liver cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors in the world. T cell-mediated antitumor immune response is the basis of liver cancer immunotherapy.OBJECTIVE: To screen and analyze the RNAs associated with activated memory CD4 T cells and CD8 T cells in liver cancer.METHODS: ESTIMATE was used to calculate the stromal and immune scores of tumor samples, which were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in high and low stromal and immune scores were screened, followed by functional enrichment of overlapped DEGs. We then conducted a survival analysis to identify immune-related prognostic indicators and constructed protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and ceRNA networks. Finally, chemical small-molecule-target interaction pairs associated with liver cancer were screened.RESULTS: A total of 55,955 stromal-related DEGs and 1811 immune-related DEGs were obtained. The 1238 overlapped DEGs were enriched in 1457 biological process terms and 74 KEGG pathways. In addition, a total of 120 activated memory CD4 T cell-related genes and 309 CD8 T cell-related genes were identified. The survival analysis revealed that upregulated expression of T cell-related genes including EOMES, CST7, and CD5L indicated the favorable prognosis of liver cancer. EOMES was regulated by has-miR-23b-3p and has-miR-23b-3p was regulated by lncRNA AC104820.2 in the ceRNA network of activated memory CD4 T cell-related genes. In addition, EOMES was regulated by has-miR-23a-3p and has-miR-23a-3p was regulated by lncRNA AC000476.1 in the ceRNA network of CD8 T cells.CONCLUSION: T cell-related RNAs EOMES, CST7, CD5L, has-miR-23b-3p, and has-miR-23a-3p may be associated with the prognosis of liver cancer. And the molecular characteristics of these T cell-related genes were plotted.
Primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell lymphoproliferative disorders are the second most common cutaneous lymphomas. According to the World Health Organization, CD30+ T-cell lymphoproliferative disorders include primary cutaneous anaplastic large cell lymphoma (C-ALCL) and lymphomatoid papulosis (LyP) as well as borderline lesions. C-ALCL and LyP are thought to represent two ends of a spectrum of diseases that have different clinical presentations, clinical courses, and prognoses in their classic forms but share the same histology of medium to large CD30+ atypical lymphoid cell infiltrates. Because the behavior of these entities is different clinically and prognostically, we aim to search for oncogenic genomic variants using whole-exome sequencing that drive the development of LyP and C-ALCL. Clinical information, pathology, immunohistochemistry, and T-cell rearrangements on six cases of LyP and five cases of C-ALCL were reviewed to confirm the rendered diagnosis before whole-exome sequencing of all specimens. Both LyP and C-ALCL had recurrent alterations in epigenetic modifying genes affecting histone methylation and acetylation (SETD2, KMT2A, KMT2D, and CREBBP). However, they also harbor unique differences with mutations in signal transducer and activator of transcription gene STAT3 of the Jak/signal transducer and activator of transcription pathway and EOMES, a transcription factor involved in lymphocyte development, only noted in C-ALCL specimens. Genomic characterization of LyP and C-ALCL in this series confirms the role of multiple pathways involved in the biology and development of these lymphomatous processes. The identification of similar aberrations within the epigenetic modifying genes emphasizes common potential development mechanisms of lymphomagenesis within lymphoproliferative disorders being shared between LyP and C-ALCL; however, the presence of differences may account for the differences in clinical course.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common cancer worldwide, with a growing impact on public health and clinical management. Immunotherapy has shown promise in the treatment of advanced cancers, but needs to be improved for CRC, since only a limited fraction of patients is eligible for treatment, and most of them develop resistance due to progressive immune exhaustion. Here, we identify the transcriptional, molecular, and cellular traits of the immune exhaustion associated with CRC and determine their relationships with the patient's clinic-pathological profile. Bioinformatic analyses of RNA-sequencing data of 594 CRCs from TCGA PanCancer collection, revealed that, in the wide range of immune exhaustion genes, those coding for PD-L1, LAG3 and T-bet were associated (Cramér's V=0.3) with MSI/dMMR tumors and with a shorter overall survival (log-rank test: p=0.0004, p=0.0014 and p=0.0043, respectively), whereas high levels of expression of EOMES, TRAF1, PD-L1, FCRL4, BTLA and SIGLEC6 were associated with a shorter overall survival (log-rank test: p=0.0003, p=0.0188, p=0.0004, p=0.0303, p=0.0052 and p=0.0033, respectively), independently from the molecular subtype of CRC. Expression levels of PD-L1, PD-1, LAG3, EOMES, T-bet, and TIGIT were significantly correlated with each other and associated with genes coding for CD4+ and CD8+CD3+ T cell markers and NKp46+CD94+EOMES+T-bet+ cell markers, (OR >1.5, p<0.05), which identify a subset of group 1 innate lymphoid cells, namely conventional (c)NK cells. Expression of TRAF1 and BTLA co-occurred with both T cell markers, CD3γ, CD3δ, CD3ε, CD4, and B cell markers, CD19, CD20 and CD79a (OR >2, p<0.05). Expression of TGFβ1 was associated only with CD4+ and CD8+CD3ε+ T cell markers (odds ratio >2, p<0.05). Expression of PD-L2 and IDO1 was associated (OR >1.5, p<0.05) only with cNK cell markers, whereas expression of FCRL4, SIGLEC2 and SIGLEC6 was associated (OR >2.5; p<0.05) with CD19+CD20+CD79a+ B cell markers. Morphometric examination of immunostained CRC tissue sections, obtained from a validation cohort of 53 CRC patients, substantiated the biostatistical findings, showing that the highest percentage of immune exhaustion gene expressing cells were found in tumors from short-term survivors and that functional exhaustion is not confined to T lymphocytes, but also involves B cells, and cNK cells. This concept was strengthened by CYBERSORTx analysis, which revealed the expression of additional immune exhaustion genes, in particular FOXP1, SIRT1, BATF, NR4A1 and TOX, by subpopulations of T, B and NK cells. This study provides novel insight into the immune exhaustion landscape of CRC and emphasizes the need for a customized multi-targeted therapeutic approach to overcome resistance to current immunotherapy.
Transcription factors (TFs) modulate genes involved in cell-type-specific proliferative and migratory properties, metabolic features, and effector functions. Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the most important pathogen agents in the porcine industry; however, TFs have been poorly studied during the course of this disease. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the expressions of the TFs T-bet, GATA3, FOXP3, and Eomesodermin (EOMES) in target organs (the lung, tracheobronchial lymph node, and thymus) and those of different effector cytokines (IFNG, TNFA, and IL10) and the Fas ligand (FASL) during the early phase of infection with PRRSV-1 strains of different virulence. Target organs from mock-, virulent Lena-, and low virulent 3249-infected animals humanely euthanized at 1, 3, 6, 8, and 13 days post-infection (dpi) were collected to analyze the PRRSV viral load, histopathological lesions, and relative quantification through reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) of the TFs and cytokines. Animals belonging to both infected groups, but mainly those infected with the virulent Lena strain, showed upregulation of the TFs T-bet, EOMES, and FOXP3, together with an increase of the cytokine IFN-γ in target organs at the end of the study (approximately 2 weeks post-infection). These results are suggestive of a stronger polarization to Th1 cells and regulatory T cells (Tregs), but also CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), effector CD8+ T cells, and γδT cells in virulent PRRSV-1-infected animals; however, their biological functionality should be the object of further studies.
BACKGROUNDS: Serum long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) and messenger RNAs (mRNAs) interaction network was discovered to exert an important role in liver cirrhosis while little is known in mild hepatic encephalopathy (MHE). Therefore, we aim to systematically evaluate the serum lncRNA-mRNA network and its regulatory mechanism in MHE.METHODS: The data of serum mRNAs and lncRNAs were derived from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were calculated between 11 cirrhotic patients with and without MHE. Next, the biological functions and underlined pathways of DEGs were determined through Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses. Finally, an interactive network between lncRNAs and mRNAs was built, and hub genes were identified, respectively.RESULTS: A total of 64 differentially expressed lncRNAs (dif-lncRNAs) were found between patients with and without MHE, including 30 up- and 34 downregulated genes. 187 differentially expressed mRNAs (dif-mRNAs) were identified, including 84 up- and 103 downregulated genes. Functional enrichment analysis suggested that the regulatory pathways involved in MHE mainly consisted of a series of immune and inflammatory responses. Several hub mRNAs involved in regulatory network were identified, including CCL5, CCR5, CXCR3, CD274, STAT1, CXCR6, and EOMES. In addition, lnc-FAM84B-8 and lnc-SAMD3-1 were found to regulate these above hub genes through building a lncRNA-mRNA network.CONCLUSION: This is the first study to construct the serum lncRNA-mRNA network in MHE, demonstrating the critical role of lncRNAs in regulating inflammatory and immunological profiles in the developing of MHE, suggesting a latent mechanism in this pathophysiological process.
T cell factor 1 (Tcf1) is known as a critical mediator for natural killer (NK) cell development and terminal maturation. However, its essential targets and precise mechanisms involved in early NK progenitors (NKP) are not well clarified. To investigate the role of Tcf1 in NK cells at distinct developmental phases, we employed three kinds of genetic mouse models, namely, Tcf7fl/flVavCre/+, Tcf7fl/flCD122Cre/+ and Tcf7fl/flNcr1Cre/+ mice, respectively. Similar to Tcf1 germline knockout mice, we found notably diminished cell number and defective development in BM NK cells from all strains. In contrast, Tcf7fl/flNcr1Cre/+ mice exhibited modest defects in splenic NK cells compared with those in the other two strains. By analyzing the published ATAC-seq and ChIP-seq data, we found that Tcf1 directly targeted 110 NK cell-related genes which displayed differential accessibility in the absence of Tcf1. Along with this clue, we further confirmed that a series of essential regulators were expressed aberrantly in distinct BM NK subsets with conditional ablating Tcf1 at NKP stage. Eomes, Ets1, Gata3, Ikzf1, Ikzf2, Nfil3, Runx3, Sh2d1a, Slamf6, Tbx21, Tox, and Zeb2 were downregulated, whereas Spi1 and Gzmb were upregulated in distinct NK subsets due to Tcf1 deficiency. The dysregulation of these genes jointly caused severe defects in NK cells lacking Tcf1. Thus, our study identified essential targets of Tcf1 in NK cells, providing new insights into Tcf1-dependent regulatory programs in step-wise governing NK cell development.
Although long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) is one of the most abundant classes of RNAs encoded within the mammalian genome and are highly expressed in the adult brain, they remain poorly characterized and their roles in the brain development are not well understood. Here we identify the lncRNA Lacuna (also catalogued as NONMMUT071331.2 in NONCODE database) as a negative regulator of neuronal differentiation in the neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs) during mouse brain development. In particular, we show that Lacuna is transcribed from a genomic locus near to the Tbr2/Eomes gene, a key player in the transition of intermediate progenitor cells towards the induction of neuronal differentiation. Lacuna RNA expression peaks at the developmental time window between E14.5 and E16.5, consistent with a role in neural differentiation. Overexpression experiments in ex vivo cultured NSCs from murine cortex suggest that Lacuna is sufficient to inhibit neuronal differentiation, induce the number of Nestin+ and Olig2+ cells, without affecting proliferation or apoptosis of NSCs. CRISPR/dCas9-KRAB mediated knockdown of Lacuna gene expression leads to the opposite phenotype by inducing neuronal differentiation and suppressing Nestin+ and Olig2+ cells, again without any effect on proliferation or apoptosis of NSCs. Interestingly, despite the negative action of Lacuna on neurogenesis, its knockdown inhibits Eomes transcription, implying a simultaneous, but opposite, role in facilitating the Eomes gene expression. Collectively, our observations indicate a critical function of Lacuna in the gene regulation networks that fine tune the neuronal differentiation in the mammalian NSCs.
The T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) promotes the expression of interferon-γ (IFN-γ). We recently reported that the small molecule inhibitors, TPCA-1 and IKK-16, which target nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) activation, moderately reduced Eomes-dependent IFN-γ expression in mouse lymphoma BW5147 cells stimulated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and ionomycin (IM). In the present study, we investigated the direct effects of NF-κB on IFN-γ expression in mouse lymphoma EL4 cells and primary effector T cells. Eomes strongly promoted IFN-γ expression and the binding of RelA and NFATc2 to the IFN-γ promoter when EL4 cells were stimulated with PMA and IM. Neither TPCA-1 nor IKK-16 reduced IFN-γ expression; however, they markedly decreased interleukin (IL)-2 expression in Eomes-transfected EL4 cells. Moreover, TPCA-1 markedly inhibited the binding of RelA, but not that of Eomes or NFATc2 to the IFN-γ promoter. In effector CD4+ and CD8+ T cells activated with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies, IFN-γ expression induced by PMA and A23187 was not markedly decreased by TPCA-1 or IKK-16 under conditions where IL-2 expression was markedly reduced. Therefore, the present results revealed that NF-κB is dispensable for IFN-γ expression induced by PMA and calcium ionophores in EL4 cells expressing Eomes and primary effector T cells.
Circulating CD4+CD8+ double-positive (DP) T cells are associated with a variety of disease states. However, unlike conventional T cells, the composition of this population is poorly understood. Here, we used single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to analyze the composition and characteristics of the DP T cell population circulating in the peripheral blood of cynomolgus monkeys. We found that circulating DP T cells not only contain a large number of naïve cells, but also comprise a heterogeneous population (CD4 CTL-, Eomes+ Tr1-, Th2-, Th17-, Tfh-, Treg-, CD8 CTL-, and innate-like cells) with multiple potential functions. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that a substantial number of the naïve DP T cells expressed CD8αβ, as well as CD8αα, along with high expression of CD31. Moreover, the CD4hiCD8lo and CD4hiCD8hi populations, which express high levels of the CD4 coreceptor, comprised subsets characterized by helper and regulatory functions, some of which also exhibited cytotoxic functions. By contrast, the CD4loCD8hi population with high CD8 coreceptor expression comprised a subset characterized by CD8 CTL- and innate-like properties. Taken together, the data show that scRNA-seq analysis identified a more diverse subset of the circulating DP cells than is currently known, despite this population being very small.
Identification of type 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILC1s) has been problematic. The transcription factor Hobit encoded by Zfp683 has been proposed as a major driver of ILC1 programs. Using Zfp683 reporter mice, we showed that correlation of Hobit expression with ILC1s is tissue- and context-dependent. In liver and intestinal mucosa, Zfp683 expression correlated well with ILC1s; in salivary glands, Zfp683 was coexpressed with the natural killer (NK) master transcription factors Eomes and TCF1 in a unique cell population, which we call ILC1-like NK cells; during viral infection, Zfp683 was induced in conventional NK cells of spleen and liver. The impact of Zfp683 deletion on ILC1s and NK cells was also multifaceted, including a marked decrease in granzyme- and interferon-gamma (IFNγ)-producing ILC1s in the liver, slightly fewer ILC1s and more Eomes+ TCF1+ ILC1-like NK cells in salivary glands, and only reduced production of granzyme B by ILC1 in the intestinal mucosa. NK cell-mediated control of viral infection was unaffected. We conclude that Hobit has two major impacts on ILC1s: It sustains liver ILC1 numbers, while promoting ILC1 functional maturation in other tissues by controlling TCF1, Eomes, and granzyme expression.
Comment in    Hepatology. 2022 Sep;76(3):561-563.
We previously examined the utility of rituximab-bendamustine (RB) in patients with follicular lymphoma (FL) exhibiting less than optimal responses to 2 cycles of the R-CHOP chemotherapy regimen. The aim of this study was to identify molecular biomarkers that can predict prognosis in RB-treated patients in the context of the prospective cohort. We first analyzed the mutational status of 410 genes in diagnostic tumor specimens by target capture and Sanger sequencing. CREBBP, KMT2D, MEF2B, BCL2, EZH2, and CARD11 were recurrently mutated as reported before, however none was predictive for progression-free survival (PFS) in the RB-treated patients (n = 34). A gene expression analysis by nCounter including 800 genes associated with carcinogenesis and/or the immune response showed that expression levels of CD8+ T-cell markers and half of the genes regulating Th1 and Th2 responses were significantly lower in progression of disease within the 24-mo (POD24) group (n = 8) than in the no POD24 group (n = 31). Collectively, we selected 10 genes (TBX21, CXCR3, CCR4, CD8A, CD8B, GZMM, FLT3LG, CD3E, EOMES, GZMK), and generated an immune infiltration score (IIS) for predicting PFS using principal component analysis, which dichotomized the RB-treated patients into immune IIShigh (n = 19) and IISlow (n = 20) groups. The 3-y PFS rate was significantly lower in the IISlow group than in the IIShigh group (50.0% [95% CI: 27.1-69.2%] vs. 84.2% [95% CI: 58.7-94.6%], P = .0237). Furthermore, the IIS was correlates with absolute lymphocyte counts at diagnosis (r = 0.460, P = .00355). These results suggest that the T-cell-associated immune markers could be useful to predict prognosis in RB-treated FL patients. (UMIN:000 013 795, jRCT:051 180 181).
Memory T cells play a central role in regulating inflammatory responses during asthma. However, tissue distribution of effector memory (TEM) and central memory (TCM) T-cell subtypes, their differentiation, and their contribution to the persistence of lung tissue inflammation during asthma are not well understood. Interestingly, an increase in survival and persistence of memory T cells was reported in asthmatic lungs, which may suggest a shift toward the more persistent TCM phenotype. In this report, we investigated the differential distribution of memory T-cell subtypes during allergic lung inflammation and the mechanism regulating that. Using an OVA-sensitized asthma mouse model, we observed a significant increase in the frequency of TCM cells in inflamed lungs compared to healthy controls. Interestingly, adoptive transfer techniques confirmed substantial infiltration of TCM cells to lung tissues during allergic airway inflammation. Expression levels of TCM homing receptors, CD34 and GlyCAM-1, were also significantly upregulated in the lung tissues of OVA-sensitized mice, which may facilitate the increased TCM infiltration into inflamed lungs. Moreover, a substantial increase in the relative expression of TCM profile-associated genes (EOMES, BCL-6, ID3, TCF-7, BCL-2, BIM, and BMI-1) was noted for TEM cells during lung inflammation, suggesting a shift for TEM into the TCM state. To our knowledge, this is the first study to report an increased infiltration of TCM cells into inflamed lung tissues and to suggest differentiation of TEM to TCM cells in these tissues. Therapeutic interference at TCM infiltration or differentiations could constitute an alternative treatment approach for lung inflammation.
T-box genes encode transcription factors which control basic processes in development of several tissues including cell differentiation in the hematopoietic system. Here, we analyzed the physiological activities of all 17 human T-box genes in early hematopoiesis and in lymphopoiesis including developing and mature B-cells, T-cells, natural killer (NK)-cells and innate lymphoid cells. The resultant expression pattern comprised six genes, namely EOMES, MGA, TBX1, TBX10, TBX19 and TBX21. We termed this gene signature TBX-code which enables discrimination of normal and aberrant activities of T-box genes in lymphoid malignancies. Accordingly, expression analysis of T-box genes in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) patients using a public profiling dataset revealed overexpression of EOMES, TBX1, TBX2, TBX3, TBX10, TBX19, TBX21 and TBXT while MGA showed aberrant downregulation. Analysis of T-cell acute lymphoid leukemia patients indicated aberrant overexpression of six T-box genes while no deregulated T-box genes were detected in anaplastic large cell lymphoma patients. As a paradigm we focused on TBX3 which was ectopically activated in about 6% of HL patients analyzed. Normally, TBX3 is expressed in tissues like lung, adrenal gland and retina but not in hematopoiesis. HL cell line KM-H2 expressed enhanced TBX3 levels and was used as an in vitro model to identify upstream regulators and downstream targets in this malignancy. Genomic studies of this cell line showed focal amplification of the TBX3 locus at 12q24 which may underlie its aberrant expression. In addition, promoter analysis and comparative expression profiling of HL cell lines followed by knockdown experiments revealed overexpressed transcription factors E2F4 and FOXC1 and chromatin modulator KDM2B as functional activators. Furthermore, we identified repressed target genes of TBX3 in HL including CDKN2A, NFKBIB and CD19, indicating its respective oncogenic function in proliferation, NFkB-signaling and B-cell differentiation. Taken together, we have revealed a lymphoid TBX-code and used it to identify an aberrant network around deregulated T-box gene TBX3 in HL which promotes hallmark aberrations of this disease. These findings provide a framework for future studies to evaluate deregulated T-box genes in lymphoid malignancies.
BACKGROUND: Accumulation of Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) cells in the tumor often represents an important mechanism for cancer immune evasion and a critical barrier to anti-tumor immunity and immunotherapy. Many tumor-infiltrating Treg cells display an activated phenotype and express the transcription factor Blimp1. However, the specific impact of these Blimp1+ Treg cells and their follicular regulatory T (TFR) cell subset on tumor and the underlying mechanisms of action are not yet well-explored.METHODS: Various transplantable tumor models were established in immunocompetent wild-type mice and mice with a Foxp3-specific ablation of Blimp1. Tumor specimens from patients with metastatic melanoma and TCGA datasets were analyzed to support the potential role of Treg and TFR cells in tumor immunity. In vitro culture assays and in vivo adoptive transfer assays were used to understand how Treg, TFR cells and antibody responses influence tumor control. RNA sequencing and NanoString analysis were performed to reveal the transcriptome of tumor-infiltrating Treg cells and tumor cells, respectively. Finally, the therapeutic effects of anti-PD-1 treatment combined with the disruption of Blimp1+ Treg activity were evaluated.RESULTS: Blimp1+ Treg and TFR cells were enriched in the tumors, and higher tumoral TFR signatures indicated increased risk of melanoma metastasis. Deletion of Blimp1 in Treg cells resulted in impaired suppressive activity and a reprogramming into effector T-cells, which were largely restricted to the tumor-infiltrating Treg population. This destabilization combined with increased anti-tumor effector cellular responses, follicular helper T-cell expansion, enhanced tumoral IgE deposition and activation of macrophages secondary to dysregulated TFR cells, remodeled the tumor microenvironment and delayed tumor growth. The increased tumor immunogenicity with MHC upregulation improved response to anti-PD-1 blockade. Mechanistically, Blimp1 enforced intratumoral Treg cells with a unique transcriptional program dependent on Eomesodermin (Eomes) expression; deletion of Eomes in Blimp1-deficient Treg cells restored tumor growth and attenuated anti-tumor immunity.CONCLUSIONS: These findings revealed Blimp1 as a new critical regulator of tumor-infiltrating Treg cells and a potential target for modulating Treg activity to treat cancer. Our study has also revealed two FCERIA-containing immune signatures as promising diagnostic or prognostic markers for melanoma patients.
T cells exhibit heterogeneous functional states, which correlate with responsiveness to immune checkpoint blockade and prognosis of tumor patients. However, the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying the dynamic process of T cell state transition remain largely unknown. Based on single-cell transcriptome data of T cells in non-small cell lung cancer, we combined cell states and pseudo-times to propose a pipeline to construct dynamic regulatory networks for dissecting the process of T cell dysfunction. Candidate regulators at different stages were revealed in the process of tumor-infiltrating T cell dysfunction. Through comparing dynamic networks across the T cell state transition, we revealed frequent regulatory interaction rewiring and further refined critical regulators mediating each state transition. Several known regulators were identified, including TCF7, EOMES, ID2, and TOX. Notably, one of the critical regulators, TSC22D3, was frequently identified in the state transitions from the intermediate state to the pre-dysfunction and dysfunction state, exerting diverse roles in each state transition by regulatory interaction rewiring. Moreover, higher expression of TSC22D3 was associated with the clinical outcome of tumor patients. Our study embedded transcription factors (TFs) within the temporal dynamic networks, providing a comprehensive view of dynamic regulatory mechanisms controlling the process of T cell state transition.
BACKGROUND: There is evidence that the immune system plays a key critical role in the pathogenesis of myocardial infarction (MI). However, the exact mechanisms associated with immunity have not been systematically uncovered.METHODS: This study used the weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) and the CIBERSORT algorithm to analyze the MI expression data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database and then identify the module associated with immune cell infiltration. In addition, we built the coexpression network and protein-protein interactions network analysis to identify the hub genes. Furthermore, the relationship between hub genes and NK cell resting was validated by using another dataset GSE123342. Finally, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses were used to assess the diagnostic value of verified hub genes.RESULTS: Monocytes and neutrophils were markedly increased, and T cell CD8, T cell CD4 naive, T cell CD4 memory resting, and NK cell resting were significantly decreased in MI groups compared with stable coronary artery disease (CAD) groups. The WGCNA results showed that the pink model had the highest correlation with the NK cell resting infiltration level. We identified 11 hub genes whose expression correlated to the NK cell resting infiltration level, among which, 7 hub genes (NKG7, TBX21, PRF1, CD247, KLRD1, FASLG, and EOMES) were successfully validated in GSE123342. And these 7 genes had diagnostic value to distinguish MI and stable CAD.CONCLUSIONS: NKG7, TBX21, PRF1, CD247, KLRD1, FASLG, and EOMES may be a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target associated with NK cell resting infiltration in MI.
Comment in    J Am Soc Nephrol. 2022 Jan;33(1):6-8.
PURPOSE: 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) is a primary immunodeficiency characterized chiefly by the hypoplasia of the thymus resulting in T cell lymphopenia, increased susceptibility to infections, and higher risk of autoimmune diseases. The irregular thymic niche of T cell development may contribute to autoimmune and atopic complications, whereas the compensatory mechanism of homeostatic T cell proliferation and continuous immune stimulation may result in T cell senescence and exhaustion, further aggravating the immune system dysregulation.METHODS: We used flow cytometry to investigate T cell maturation, delineation, proliferation, activation, and expression of senescence and exhaustion-associated markers (PD1, KLRG1, CD57) in 17 pediatric and adolescent patients with 22q11.2DS and age-matched healthy donors.RESULTS: 22q11.2DS patients aged 0-5 years had fewer naïve but more effector memory T cells with a tendency to approach normal values with increasing age. Young patients in particular had a higher percentage of proliferating T cells and increased expression of PD1, KLRG1, and CD57, as well as cells co-expressing several exhaustion-associated molecules (PD1, KLRG1, Tbet, Eomes, Helios). Additionally, high-risk 22q11.2DS patients with very low numbers of CD4 T cells had significantly higher percentage of Th1 and Th17 T cells, driven in part by higher proportion of mature T cell forms.CONCLUSION: The low thymic output and accelerated T cell differentiation remain the principal features of 22q11.2DS patient immunity, especially in young patients of < 5 years. Later in life, homeostatic proliferation drives expression of T cell exhaustion and senescence-associated markers, suggesting functional aberrations in addition to numeric T cell deficiency.
It is imperative to identify the mechanisms that confer stemness to the cancer cells for more effective targeting. Moreover, there are not many studies on the link between stemness characteristics and the immune response in tumours. Therefore, in the current study involving GBM, we started with the study of BIRC5 (one of the rare genes differentially expressed in normal and cancer cells) and CXCR4 (gene involved in the survival and proliferation of CSCs). Together, these genes have not been systematically explored. We used a set of 27 promoter methylated regions in GBM. Our analysis showed that four genes corresponding to these regions, namely EOMES, BDNF, HLA-A, and PECAM1, were involved with BIRC5 and CXCR4. Interestingly, we found EOMES to be very significantly involved in stemness and immunology and it was positively correlated to CXCR4. Additionally, BDNF, which was significant in methylation, was negatively correlated to BIRC5.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory, demyelinating disease of autoimmune origin, in which inflammation and demyelination lead to neurodegeneration and progressive disability. Treatment is aimed at slowing down the course of the disease and mitigating its symptoms. One of the first-line treatments used in patients with MS is glatiramer acetate (GA). However, in clinical practice, a response rate of between 30% and 55% is observed. This variability in the effectiveness of the medication may be influenced by genetic factors such as polymorphisms in the genes involved in the pathogenesis of MS. Therefore, this review assesses the impact of genetic variants on the response to GA therapy in patients diagnosed with MS. The results suggest that a relationship exists between the effectiveness of the treatment with GA and the presence of polymorphisms in the following genes: CD86, CLEC16A, CTSS, EOMES, MBP, FAS, TRBC1, IL1R1, IL12RB2, IL22RA2, PTPRT, PVT1, ALOX5AP, MAGI2, ZAK, RFPL3, UVRAG, SLC1A4, and HLA-DRB1*1501. Consequently, the identification of polymorphisms in these genes can be used in the future as a predictive marker of the response to GA treatment in patients diagnosed with MS. Nevertheless, there is a lack of evidence for this and more validation studies need to be conducted to apply this information to clinical practice.
Natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphocytes that play an important role in immune surveillance. The development, maturation and effector functions of NK cells are orchestrated by the T-box transcription factor T-bet, whose expression is induced by cytokines such as IFN-γ, IL-12, IL-15 and IL-21 through the respective cytokine receptors and downstream JAK/STATs or PI3K-AKT-mTORC1 signaling pathways. In this review, we aim to discuss the expression and regulation of T-bet in NK cells, the role of T-bet in mouse NK cell development, maturation, and function, as well as the role of T-bet in acute, chronic infection, inflammation, autoimmune diseases and tumors.
BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies identified numerous susceptibility loci for multiple sclerosis in populations of European ancestry, but the associations are not always reproducible in other populations due to admixture and different linkage disequilibrium patterns obscuring true association signals.OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to identify genetic predictors of multiple sclerosis in three ethnically homogenous populations from the Volga-Ural region of Russian Federation.METHODS: In the largest to date study of multiple sclerosis in Russian population, involving 2048 participants from the Republic of Bashkortostan, Russian Federation (641 patients with multiple sclerosis and 1407 unaffected individuals), we performed replication analysis of previously identified genome-wide signals for multiple sclerosis. Associations were tested using logistic regression analysis under additive genetic model adjusted for sex. Meta-analysis of the study results in three populations was performed under fixed effects and random effects models.RESULTS: We demonstrate the association with multiple sclerosis of the five variants (INAVA rs7522462, EOMES rs11129295, C6orf10 rs3129934, CD86 rs9282641, and GPR65 rs2119704). The strongest association (OR = 2.16, CI:1.85-2.74, P = 2.53x10-13) was detected for rs3129934 polymorphism in the major histocompatibility region. Multilocus analysis has revealed 322 and 27 allelic patterns associated with multiple sclerosis in women and men, respectively. In women, the highest risk of MS was conferred by C6orf10 rs3129934*T/T + STAT3 rs744166*T combination (OR = 11.87), in men - by C6orf10 rs3129934*T + EOMES rs11129295*C + RPS6KB1 rs180515*C combination (OR = 3.25).CONCLUSION: We confirm five associations with multiple sclerosis previously reported in genome-wide scans in Europeans in three ethnic groups from the Volga-Ural region of Russia.
Human infertility is a complex disorder at the genetic, molecular, cellular, organ, and hormonal levels. New developing technology based on the generation of human primordial germ cell-like cells (hPGCLCs) from induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) might improve understanding of early germ cell development (specification, migration, gametogenesis, and epigenetic reconstitutions), as well as offering a solution for infertility and hereditary disorders. In this study, we differentiated hiPSCs with trisomy 21 into hPGCLCs. In vitro-derived germ cells from hiPSCs with Down syndrome (DS) express hPGCLC core circuitry, EOMES, SOX17, and PRDM14 at relatively low levels. TFAP2C and PRDM1 were expressed and remained elevated, whereas NANOS3 and NANOG were downregulated in BMP4-induced hiPSCs with DS. The low level of NANOG and NANOS3 expression might negatively influence hPGCLC generation in DS hiPSCs. We suggest that DS hPGCLCs could be a suitable model for studying human early germ cell development, the epigenetic and molecular mechanisms of PGC specification and formation, as well as related infertility disorders, such as azoospermia and teratozoospermia.
T-bet and Eomes are transcription factors that are known to be important in maturation and function of murine natural killer (NK) cells. Reduced T-BET and EOMES expression results in dysfunctional NK cells and failure to control tumor growth. In contrast to mice, the current knowledge on the role of T-BET and EOMES in human NK cells is rudimentary. Here, we ectopically expressed either T-BET or EOMES in human hematopoietic progenitor cells. Combined transcriptome, chromatin accessibility and protein expression analyses revealed that T-BET or EOMES epigenetically represses hematopoietic stem cell quiescence and non-NK lineage differentiation genes, while activating an NK cell-specific transcriptome and thereby drastically accelerating NK cell differentiation. In this model, the effects of T-BET and EOMES are largely overlapping, yet EOMES shows a superior role in early NK cell maturation and induces faster NK receptor and enhanced CD16 expression. T-BET particularly controls transcription of terminal maturation markers and epigenetically controls strong induction of KIR expression. Finally, NK cells generated upon T-BET or EOMES overexpression display improved functionality, including increased IFN-γ production and killing, and especially EOMES overexpression NK cells have enhanced antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Our findings reveal novel insights on the regulatory role of T-BET and EOMES in human NK cell maturation and function, which is essential to further understand human NK cell biology and to optimize adoptive NK cell therapies.
Human induced pluripotent stem (hiPS) cells are feasible materials for studying the biological mechanisms underlying human embryogenesis. In early embryogenesis, definitive endoderm and mesoderm are differentiated from their common precursor, mesendoderm. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling is responsible for regulating mesendoderm and mesoderm formation. Micro RNAs (miRNAs), short non-coding RNAs, broadly regulate biological processes via post-transcriptional repression. The expression of miR-27b, which is enriched in somatic cells, has been reported to increase through definitive endoderm and hepatic differentiation, but little is known about how miR-27b acts during early differentiation. Here, we used miR-27b-inducible hiPS cells to investigate the roles of miR-27b in the undifferentiated and early-differentiated stages. In undifferentiated hiPS cells, miR-27b suppressed the expression of pluripotency markers [alkaline phosphatase (AP) and nanog homeobox (NANOG)] and cell proliferation. Once differentiation began, miR-27b expression repressed phosphorylated SMAD1/5, the mediators of the BMP signaling, throughout definitive endoderm differentiation. Consistent with the above findings, miR-27b overexpression downregulated BMP-induced mesendodermal marker genes [Brachyury, mix paired-like homeobox 1 (MIXL1) and eomesodermin (EOMES)], suggesting that miR-27b had an inhibitory effect on early differentiation. Collectively, our findings revealed a novel antagonistic role of miR-27b in the BMP signaling pathway in the early differentiation of hiPS cells.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the world's leading cause of tumor-related mortalities. Natural killer (NK) cells play a critical role at the first immunological defense line against HCC initiation and progression. NK cell dysfunction is therefore an important mechanism for immune evasion of HCC cells. In the present study using a murine HCC model, we revealed the down-regulation of PR/SET Domain 10 (PRDM10) in hepatic NK cells that were phenotypically and functionally exhausted. PRDM10 silencing diminished the expression of natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), augmented T cell immunoglobulin and ITIM domain (TIGIT) expression, and decreased the expression of interferon (IFN)-γ, perforin and granzyme B in normal hepatic NK cells in vitro. Consistently, PRDM10-deficient NK cells exhibited impaired cytotoxicity on target cells. In contrast, PRDM10 over-expression promoted NKG2D and Fas ligand (FasL) expression, reduced CD96 expression and enhanced transcripts of IFN-γ, perforin and granzyme B in NK cells in vivo. Moreover, PRDM10 silencing and PRDM10 over-expression down-regulated and up-regulated Eomesodermin (Eomes) expression, respectively. In summary, this study reveals PRDM10 down-regulation as a novel mechanism underlying NK cell dysfunction and identifies PRDM10 as a supporting factor of NK cell function.
Ex vivo gene expression and miRNA profiling of Eomes+ Tr1-like cells suggested that they represent a differentiation stage that is intermediate between Th1-cells and cytotoxic CD4+ T-cells. Several microRNAs were downregulated in Eomes+ Tr1-like cells that might inhibit Tr1-cell differentiation. In particular, miR-92a targeted Eomes, while miR-125a inhibited IFN-g and IL-10R expression.
EOMES and T-BET are related T-box transcription factors that control natural killer (NK) cell development. Here we demonstrate that EOMES and T-BET regulate largely distinct gene sets during this process. EOMES is dominantly expressed in immature NK cells and drives early lineage specification by inducing hallmark receptors and functions. By contrast, T-BET is dominant in mature NK cells, where it induces responsiveness to IL-12 and represses the cell cycle, likely through transcriptional repressors. Regardless, many genes with distinct functions are co-regulated by the two transcription factors. By generating two gene-modified mice facilitating chromatin immunoprecipitation of endogenous EOMES and T-BET, we show a strong overlap in their DNA binding targets, as well as extensive epigenetic changes during NK cell differentiation. Our data thus suggest that EOMES and T-BET may distinctly govern, via differential expression and co-factors recruitment, NK cell maturation by inserting partially overlapping epigenetic regulations.
BACKGROUND: Treatment and prognosis of sinonasal squamous-cell carcinoma (SNSCC) have not significantly improved despite improvements in radical therapy. Characterization of the tumor immune microenvironment (TiME) may identify patient subgroups associated with disease recurrence, and provide new biomarkers for improved patient stratification and treatment.METHODS: The TiME was quantitatively evaluated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC) in archived tissue sections from 38 patients with SNSCC, and were assessed for differences between recurrent (n = 20) and nonrecurrent (n = 18) groups. Hierarchical clustering analyses were performed to identify phenotypic TiME subgroups within the cohort and were used to compare survival outcomes.RESULTS: Our mIHC analysis revealed increased T-cell populations and decreased myeloid-cell populations in SNSCC patients without recurrent disease, as compared with patients with recurrent disease. Within T-cell subsets, there was a significantly higher percentage of granzyme B+ , T-bet+ , Eomes+ T cells, as well as higher proliferation of CD8+ T cells within the nonrecurrent group relative to the recurrent group. Furthermore, immune-cell complexity profiles of SNSCC revealed hyper- and hypo-T-cell-inflamed, myeloid-inflamed, B-cell-inflamed, and broadly hypoinflamed subtypes not previously identified by gene expression analyses. Our study revealed that presence of either hyper- or hypo-T-cell-inflamed TiME subtypes were associated with increased survival outcomes as compared with broadly hypoinflamed TiME subtypes (p = 0.035 and 0.0376, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: The TiME of SNSCC reveals distinct subtypes, which may correlate with recurrence and survival outcomes.
Immune-mediated inflammation plays a key role in the pathology of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). We aimed to use a computational approach to profile the immune infiltration patterns and related core genes in AAA samples based on the overexpression of gene signatures. The microarray datasets of AAA and normal abdominal tissues were acquired from gene expression omnibus (GEO) database. We evaluated the composition of immune infiltrates through microenvironment cell populations (MCP)-counter. Weighted gene correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was employed to construct the co-expression network and extract gene information in the most relevant module. Functional and pathway enrichment analysis was performed and immune infiltration related core genes were screened. AAA tissues had a higher level of infiltration by cytotoxic lymphocytes, NK cells, T cells, fibroblasts, myeloid dendritic cells, and neutrophils than normal aorta. The red module was strongly correlated with the infiltrating levels of T cells and cytotoxic lymphocytes. Gene ontology (GO) and pathway analyses revealed that genes in the most relevant module were mainly enriched in T cell activation, regulation of lymphocyte activation, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and chemokine signaling pathway, etc. The expression of GZMK, CCL5, GZMA, CD2, and EOMES showed significant correlations with cytotoxic lymphocytes, while CD247, CD2, CD6, RASGRP1, and CD48 expression were positively associated with T cell infiltration. In conclusion, we comprehensively analyzed profiles of infiltrated immune cells in AAA tissues and their associated marker genes. Our data may provide a novel clue to indicate the underlying molecular mechanisms of AAA formation in terms of immune infiltration.
BACKGROUND: Yangyin Fuzheng Jiedu Prescription (YFJP), a formulated Chinese herbal medicine, has been used for several decades in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Previous studies have demonstrated its anti-tumor efficacy, but the mechanism of action remains uncharacterized. This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic effect of YFJP on H22 tumor-bearing mice.PURPOSE: This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of YFJP on H22 tumor-bearing mice.METHODS: A total of 50 male H22 tumor-bearing mice were randomly divided into 6 groups and continuous administered either different doses of YFJP or cyclophosphamide (CTX) or normal saline. for 2 weeks. The tumor appearance was observed by taking photos, and the tumor volume, weight, spleen and thymus index were calculated. Morphology of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and the CD8+ T lymphocytes were detected through HE staining immunohistochemistry respectively. The frequency of CD3+, CD8+ T cell subsets and co-inhibitory receptors PD-1, TIGIT, Tim-3 on CD8+ T cell in spleen, peripheral blood and tumor tissue was performed by flow cytometry. Meanwhile, the killing and apoptotic functions of CD8+ T cells in tumor tissues were also detected by the same method. The levels of cytokines in peripheral blood were detected by Milliplex map mouse highs sensitivity T Cell kit. The expression of T cell transcription factor T-bet and Eomes in tumor tissues were observed by Western blot.RESULTS: We found that YFJP could effectively inhibit the solid tumor growth and spleen indexes, but showed little effect on the body weight in the established mouse model of HCC. Furthermore, we investigated the effect of YFJP on the phenotypic and functional changes of T cells. The results showed that YFJP could maintain the high ratio of CD3+ and CD8+ T cells in the peripheral blood, spleen, and tumor tissues while decreasing the expression of programmed cell death-1 (PD-1), T cell immunoglobulin and ITIM domain (TIGIT), T cell immunoglobulin domain and mucin domain-3 (Tim-3) in CD8+ T cells, respectively. Surprisingly, PD-1/Tim-3 double-positive T cells in the peripheral blood and tumor tissues were significantly decreased. Additionally, YFJP restored the cytotoxicity of tumor-infiltrating T cells and delayed their apoptosis in H22 tumor-bearing mice. In addition, treatment with YFJP significantly decreased the expression of inflammatory and immunosuppressive cytokines (including IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-10) in the serum and tumor tissues whereas enhancing that of effector cytokines TNF-α, and IFN-γ. Moreover, T cell transcription factors T-bet increased and Eomes degraded in the tumor tissues upon YFJP treatment.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, these results demonstrated that YFJP could simultaneously exert anti-tumor immune response in H22 tumor-bearing mice by alleviating T cell exhaustion and immunosuppression.
CD8+ T cells are crucial for the clearance of viral infections, and current research begins to highlight their importance in parasitic diseases too. In-depth research about characteristics of CD8+ T-cell subsets and exhaustion remains uncertain, especially during filariasis, a chronic helminth infection. Lymphatic filariasis, elicited by Wuchereria bancrofti, remains a serious health problem in endemic areas in Ghana, especially in those suffering from morbidity due to lymphedema (LE). In this observational study, the characteristics and profiles of CD8+ T cells were compared between asymptomatic Wuchereria bancrofti-infected individuals, uninfected endemic normals, and those with LE (grades 2-6). Focusing on exhausted memory (CD8+exmem: CD8+ T-betdimEomeshi) and effector (CD8+exeff: CD8+T-bethiEomesdim) CD8+ T-cell subsets, advanced flow cytometry revealed that LE individuals presented reduced frequencies of IFN-γ+CD8+exmem T cells expressing Tim-3 or LAG-3 which negatively correlated to the presence of LE. Moreover, the LE cohort further showed significantly higher frequencies of IL-10+CD8+exeff T cells expressing either Tim-3, LAG-3, CD39, KLRG-1, or PD-1, all associated markers of exhaustion, and that these frequencies positively correlated with the presence of LE. In summary, this study shows that distinct exhausted CD8+ T-cell subsets are prominent in individuals suffering from LE, suggesting that enhanced inflammation and constant immune activation might drive exhaustion of CD8+ T cells. Since T-cell exhaustion is known to be associated with insufficient control of persisting antigen, the data presented here reveals that these CD8+ T-cell exhaustion patterns in filarial LE should be taken into consideration for prevention and control management of LE.
Regulatory T cells (Treg) are essential to maintain immune homeostasis and prevent autoimmune disorders. While the function and molecular regulation of Foxp3+CD4+ Tregs are well established, much of CD8+ Treg biology remains to be revealed. Here, we will review the heterogenous subsets of CD8+ T cells have been named "CD8+ Treg" and mainly focus on CD122hiLy49+CD8+ Tregs present in naïve mice. CD122hiLy49+CD8+ Tregs, which depends on transcription factor Helios and homeostatic cytokine IL-15, have been established as a non-redundant regulator of germinal center (GC) reaction. Recently, we have demonstrated that TGF-β (Transforming growth factor-β) and transcription factor Eomes (Eomesodermin) are essential for the function and homeostasis of CD8+ Tregs. In addition, we will discuss several open questions regarding the differentiation, function and true identity of CD8+ Tregs as well as a brief comparison between two regulatory T cell subsets critical to control GC reaction, namely CD4+ TFR (follicular regulatory T cells) and CD8+ Tregs.
Tissue-resident memory CD8+ T cells (TRM) constitute a noncirculating memory T cell subset that provides early protection against reinfection. However, how TRM arise from antigen-triggered T cells has remained unclear. Exploiting the TRM-restricted expression of Hobit, we used TRM reporter/deleter mice to study TRM differentiation. We found that Hobit was up-regulated in a subset of LCMV-specific CD8+ T cells located within peripheral tissues during the effector phase of the immune response. These Hobit+ effector T cells were identified as TRM precursors, given that their depletion substantially decreased TRM development but not the formation of circulating memory T cells. Adoptive transfer experiments of Hobit+ effector T cells corroborated their biased contribution to the TRM lineage. Transcriptional profiling of Hobit+ effector T cells underlined the early establishment of TRM properties including down-regulation of tissue exit receptors and up-regulation of TRM-associated molecules. We identified Eomes as a key factor instructing the early bifurcation of circulating and resident lineages. These findings establish that commitment of TRM occurs early in antigen-driven T cell differentiation and reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying this differentiation pathway.
Pembrolizumab has been approved as first-line treatment for advanced Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with tumors expressing PD-L1 and in the absence of other targetable alterations. However, not all patients that meet these criteria have a durable benefit. In this monocentric study, we aimed at refining the selection of patients based on the expression of immune genes. Forty-six consecutive advanced NSCLC patients treated with pembrolizumab in first-line setting were enrolled. The expression levels of 770 genes involved in the regulation of the immune system was analysed by the nanoString system. PD-L1 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Patients with durable clinical benefit had a greater infiltration of cytotoxic cells, exhausted CD8, B-cells, CD45, T-cells, CD8 T-cells and NK cells. Immune cell scores such as CD8 T-cell and NK cell were good predictors of durable response with an AUC of 0.82. Among the immune cell markers, XCL1/2 showed the better performance in predicting durable benefit to pembrolizumab, with an AUC of 0.85. Additionally, CD8A, CD8B and EOMES showed a high specificity (>0.86) in identifying patients with a good response to treatment. In the same series, PD-L1 expression levels had an AUC of 0.61. The characterization of tumor microenvironment, even with the use of single markers, can improve patients' selection for pembrolizumab treatment.
BACKGROUND: To study the accumulation of MS-risk resulting from different combinations of MS-associated conserved-extended-haplotypes (CEHs) of the MHC and three non-MHC "risk-haplotypes" nearby genes EOMES, ZFP36L1, and CLEC16A. Many haplotypes are MS-associated despite having population-frequencies exceeding the percentage of genetically-susceptible individuals. The basis of this frequency-disparity requires explanation.METHODS: The SNP-data from the WTCCC was phased at the MHC and three non-MHC susceptibility-regions. CEHs at the MHC were classified into five haplotype-groups: (HLA-DRB1*15:01 ~ DQB1*06:02 ~ a1)-containing (H +); extended-risk (ER); all-protective (AP); neutral (0); and the single-CEH (c1). MS-associations for different "risk-combinations" at the MHC and other non-MHC "risk-loci" and the appropriateness of additive and multiplicative risk-accumulation models were assessed.RESULTS: Different combinations of "risk-haplotypes" produce a final MS-risk closer to additive rather than multiplicative risk-models but neither model was consistent. Thus, (H +)-haplotypes had greater impact when combined with (0)-haplotypes than with (H +)-haplotypes, whereas, (H +)-haplotypes had greater impact when combined with a (c1)-haplotypes than with (0)-haplotypes. Similarly, risk-genotypes (0,H +), (c1,H +), (H + ,H +) and (0,c1) were additive with risks from non-MHC risk-loci, whereas risk-genotypes (ER,H +) and (AP,c1) were unaffected.CONCLUSIONS: Genetic-susceptibility to MS is essential for MS to develop but actually developing MS depends heavily upon both an individual's particular combination of "risk-haplotypes" and how these loci interact.
The mammalian retina contains more than 40 retinal ganglion cell (RGC) subtypes based on their unique morphologies, functions, and molecular profiles. Among them, intrinsically photosensitive RGCs (ipRGCs) are the first specified RGC type emerging from a common retinal progenitor pool during development. Previous work has shown that T-box transcription factor T-brain 2 (Tbr2) is essential for the formation and maintenance of ipRGCs, and that Tbr2-expressing RGCs activate Opn4 expression upon native ipRGC ablation, suggesting that Tbr2+ RGCs contain a reservoir for ipRGCs. However, the identity of Tbr2+ RGCs has not been fully vetted. Here, using genetic sparse labeling and single cell recording, we showed that Tbr2-expressing retinal neurons include RGCs and a subset of GABAergic displaced amacrine cells (dACs). Most Tbr2+ RGCs are intrinsically photosensitive and morphologically resemble native ipRGCs with identical retinofugal projections. Tbr2+ RGCs also include a unique and rare Pou4f1-expressing OFF RGC subtype. Using a loss-of-function strategy, we have further demonstrated that Tbr2 is essential for the survival of these RGCs and dACs, as well as maintaining the expression of Opn4. These data set a strong foundation to study how Tbr2 regulates ipRGC development and survival, as well as the expression of molecular machinery regulating intrinsic photosensitivity.
Patients with cancer are at higher risk of severe coronavirus infectious disease 2019 (COVID-19), but the mechanisms underlying virus-host interactions during cancer therapies remain elusive. When comparing nasopharyngeal swabs from cancer and noncancer patients for RT-qPCR cycle thresholds measuring acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) in 1063 patients (58% with cancer), we found that malignant disease favors the magnitude and duration of viral RNA shedding concomitant with prolonged serum elevations of type 1 IFN that anticorrelated with anti-RBD IgG antibodies. Cancer patients with a prolonged SARS-CoV-2 RNA detection exhibited the typical immunopathology of severe COVID-19 at the early phase of infection including circulation of immature neutrophils, depletion of nonconventional monocytes, and a general lymphopenia that, however, was accompanied by a rise in plasmablasts, activated follicular T-helper cells, and non-naive Granzyme B+FasL+, EomeshighTCF-1high, PD-1+CD8+ Tc1 cells. Virus-induced lymphopenia worsened cancer-associated lymphocyte loss, and low lymphocyte counts correlated with chronic SARS-CoV-2 RNA shedding, COVID-19 severity, and a higher risk of cancer-related death in the first and second surge of the pandemic. Lymphocyte loss correlated with significant changes in metabolites from the polyamine and biliary salt pathways as well as increased blood DNA from Enterobacteriaceae and Micrococcaceae gut family members in long-term viral carriers. We surmise that cancer therapies may exacerbate the paradoxical association between lymphopenia and COVID-19-related immunopathology, and that the prevention of COVID-19-induced lymphocyte loss may reduce cancer-associated death.
OBJECTIVE: Analysis of the quantity and quality of epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses is crucial for understanding the mechanism of HIV/simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) replication control. We have previously shown that acute-phase passive infusion of neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) results in augmented broad T-cell responses and robust SIVmac239 control in rhesus macaques. Analyzing long-term dynamics of CD8+ T-cell responses in these SIV controllers provides important insights into designing lasting anti-HIV immunity.DESIGN: We analyzed dynamics and metabolic/functional profiles of SIV-specific CD8+ T-cell responses in rhesus macaques that controlled SIVmac239 replication following acute-phase passive NAb infusion.METHODS: SIV epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell responses in peripheral blood at multiple chronic-phase time points were investigated in four passive NAb-infused SIV controllers. In particular, expression patterns of Eomesodermin (Eomes), phosphorylated AMP kinase (pAMPK), CD28 and programmed death-1 (PD-1) were examined.RESULTS: In the NAb-infused SIV controllers, a single epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell response detected from acute infection and maintaining low levels up to year 1 showed a surge thereafter, up to year 2 postchallenge. Retention of an effector-skewed and unexhausted Eomes-high/pAMPK-low/CD28-negative/PD-1-low subpopulation in these epitope-specific CD8+ T cells implicated their front-line commitment in residual viral replication control.CONCLUSION: In long-term SIV control following acute-phase passive NAb infusion, a single-epitope, high-quality CTL response was dominantly induced in the chronic phase. These results likely describe one favorable pattern of immunodominant epitope-specific CD8+ T-cell preservation and suggest the importance of incorporating metabolic marker signatures for understanding NAb/T-cell synergism-based HIV/SIV control.
The generation of germ cells from embryonic stem cells in vitro has current historical significance. Western blot, qPCR, immunofluorescence and flow cytometry assays were used to investigate the differences in expression levels of totipotency and specific markers for Wnt regulation and the related signalling pathways during primordial germ cell-like cell (PGCLC) induction and differentiation. During PGCLC induction, activation of WNT3a increased the expression of NANOG, SOX2 and OCT4, but Mvh, DAZL, Blimp1, TFAP2C, Gata4, SOX17, EOMES, Brachyury and PRDM1 expression levels were significantly reduced. Inhibition of the WNT signal demonstrated the opposite effect. Similarly, inhibitors of BMP and the Nodal/Activin signal were used to determine the effect of signal pathways on differentiation. CER1 affected the Wnt signal and differentiation, but the inhibitor SB only regulated differentiation. BMP-WNT-NODAL were mainly responsible for regulating differentiation. Our results provide a reliable theoretical basis and feasibility for further clinical medical research.
Viral vectors have emerged as a promising alternative to classical vaccines due to their great potential for induction of a potent cellular and humoral immunity. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is an attractive vaccine vector due to its large genome with many non-essential immunoregulatory genes that can be easily manipulated to modify the immune response. CMV generates a strong antigen-specific CD8 T cell response with a gradual accumulation of these cells in the process called memory inflation. In our previous work, we have constructed a mouse CMV vector expressing NKG2D ligand RAE-1γ in place of its viral inhibitor m152 (RAE-1γMCMV), which proved to be highly attenuated in vivo. Despite attenuation, RAE-1γMCMV induced a substantially stronger CD8 T cell response to vectored antigen than the control vector and provided superior protection against bacterial and tumor challenge. In the present study, we confirmed the enhanced protective capacity of RAE-1γMCMV as a tumor vaccine vector and determined the phenotypical and functional characteristics of memory CD8 T cells induced by the RAE-1γ expressing MCMV. RNAseq data revealed higher transcription of numerous genes associated with effector-like CD8 T cell phenotype in RAE-1γMCMV immunized mice. CD8 T cells primed with RAE-1γMCMV were enriched in TCF1 negative population, with higher expression of KLRG1 and lower expression of CD127, CD27, and Eomes. These phenotypical differences were associated with distinct functional features as cells primed with RAE-1γMCMV showed inferior cytokine-producing abilities but comparable cytotoxic potential. After adoptive transfer into naive hosts, OT-1 cells induced with both RAE-1γMCMV and the control vector were equally efficient in rejecting established tumors, suggesting the context of latent infection and cell numbers as important determinants of enhanced anti-tumor response following RAE-1γMCMV vaccination. Overall, our results shed new light on the phenotypical and functional distinctness of memory CD8 T cells induced with CMV vector expressing cellular ligand for the NKG2D receptor.
N 6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most prevalent posttranscriptional modification on RNA. NK cells are the predominant innate lymphoid cells that mediate antiviral and antitumor immunity. However, whether and how m6A modifications affect NK cell immunity remain unknown. Here, we discover that YTHDF2, a well-known m6A reader, is upregulated in NK cells upon activation by cytokines, tumors, and cytomegalovirus infection. Ythdf2 deficiency in NK cells impairs NK cell antitumor and antiviral activity in vivo. YTHDF2 maintains NK cell homeostasis and terminal maturation, correlating with modulating NK cell trafficking and regulating Eomes, respectively. YTHDF2 promotes NK cell effector function and is required for IL-15-mediated NK cell survival and proliferation by forming a STAT5-YTHDF2 positive feedback loop. Transcriptome-wide screening identifies Tardbp to be involved in cell proliferation or survival as a YTHDF2-binding target in NK cells. Collectively, we elucidate the biological roles of m6A modifications in NK cells and highlight a new direction to harness NK cell antitumor immunity.
BACKGROUND: Increased levels of inflammatory cytokines are associated with severe dengue evolution, but the source of such hypercytokinemia is elusive. We investigated the contribution of innate lymphocytes, innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), and natural killer (NK) cells in cytokine production in early dengue infection.METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells of individuals with dengue without warning signs (DWS-) and dengue with warning signs and severe dengue (SD) presentation combined (DWS+) were obtained between 2 and 7 days since fever onset and submitted to flow cytometry without specific antigen stimulation to evaluate cytokines in ILC and NK cell subpopulations.RESULTS: ILCs and NK cells were found to be important sources of cytokines during dengue. ILCs of the DWS+/SD group displayed higher production of interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and interleukin (IL) 4/IL-13 when compared to DWS- individuals. On the other hand, NK Eomes+ cells of DWS- patients displayed higher IFN-γ production levels compared with the DWS+/SD group. Interestingly, when NK cells were identified by CD56 expression, DWS+/SD displayed higher frequency of IL-17 production compared with the DWS- group.CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that ILCs and NK cells are important sources of inflammatory cytokines during acute dengue infection and display distinct profiles associated with different clinical forms.
Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is a pleiotropic cytokine that plays pivotal roles in innate and adaptive immunity. It is also a promising cytokine for treating cancer. Despite growing interest in its use as an immunotherapeutic, its safety and immunological effects in dogs have not been reported. In this study, healthy dogs were given recombinant canine IL-15 (rcIL-15) intravenously at a daily dose of 20 μg/kg for 8 days and monitored for 32 days to determine the safety and immunological effects of rcIL-15. The repeated administration of rcIL-15 was well tolerated, did not cause any serious side effects, and promoted the selective proliferation and activation of canine anti-cancer effector cells, including CD3+CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes, CD3+CD5dimCD21-, and non-B/non-T NK cell populations, without stimulating Treg lymphocytes. The rcIL-15 injections also stimulated the expression of molecules and transcription factors associated with the activation and effector functions of NK cells, including CD16, NKG2D, NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, perforin, granzyme B, Ly49, T-bet, and Eomes. These results suggest that rcIL-15 might be a valuable therapeutic adjuvant to improve immunity against cancer in dogs.
The anterior-posterior axis is a central element of the body plan and, during amniote gastrulation, forms through several transient domains with specific morphogenetic activities. In the chick, experimentally proven activity of signalling molecules and transcription factors lead to the concept of a 'global positioning system' for initial axis formation whereas in the (mammotypical) rabbit embryo, a series of morphological or molecular domains are part of a putative 'three-anchor-point model'. Because circular expression patterns of genes involved in axis formation exist in both amniote groups prior to, and during, gastrulation and may thus be suited to reconcile these models, the expression patterns of selected genes known in the chick, namely the ones coding for the transcription factors eomes and tbx6, the signalling molecule wnt3 and the wnt inhibitor pkdcc, were analysed in the rabbit embryonic disc using in situ hybridisation and placing emphasis on their germ layer location. Peripheral wnt3 and eomes expression in all layers is found initially to be complementary to central pkdcc expression in the hypoblast during early axis formation. Pkdcc then appears - together with a posterior-anterior gradient in wnt3 and eomes domains - in the epiblast posteriorly before the emerging primitive streak is marked by pkdcc and tbx6 at its anterior and posterior extremities, respectively. Conserved circular expression patterns deduced from some of this data may point to shared mechanisms in amniote axis formation while the reshaping of localised gene expression patterns is discussed as part of the 'three-anchor-point model' for establishing the mammalian body plan.
BACKGROUND: Destruction of melanocytes mediated by autoimmunity is currently believed as the main cause of vitiligo. This article aims to identify the role of CC chemokine ligand 17 (CCL17)-CC chemokine receptor 4 (CCR4) axis in vitiligo and provide new possibilities for the clinical treatment of vitiligo.METHODS: A total of 30 patients with vitiligo from Affiliated Huaian No. 1 People's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University were recruited based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Trephine was used to obtain skin samples from the lesion area and its surrounding normal areas, and the expression levels of CCL17, CCR4, Tbx21, Eomes, and Blimp1 were determined by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Vitiligo mouse model was established by adoptively transferring CFP-PMEL CD8+ T cells into sublethally irradiated Krt14-Kitl* mice. Recipient mice received intraperitoneal injection of 1 × 106 plaque-forming units of rVV-hPMEL on the same day of transfer. The degree of depigmentation was scored blindly by one observer 5 weeks after vitiligo induction. CFP-PMEL CD8+ T cells migration to skin, draining lymph nodes, spleen, and blood were detected by flow cytometry. CCR4 blockade was performed by intraperitoneal injection of neutralizing antibody.RESULTS: The expression levels of CCL17, CCR4, Tbx21, Eomes, and Blimp1 in skin lesions were significantly increased compared with that in surrounding normal areas. CCL17-/- and CCR4-/- mice exhibited significantly lower disease scores than WT mice. The CFP-PMEL CD8+ T cells accumulation was significantly decreased in the skin of CCL17-/- and CCR4-/- mice, but was not changed in draining lymph nodes, spleen, and blood. Administration of CCR4 neutralizing antibody decreased the degree of depigmentation and the recruitment of CFP-PMEL CD8+ T cells to the skin, while keeping the number of T cells in draining lymph nodes unchanged.CONCLUSION: Targeting CCL17-CCR4 axis might inhibit T cell migrating to skin and alleviate vitiligo progression.
In chronic Chagas disease, Trypanosoma cruzi-specific T-cell function decreases over time, and alterations in the homeostatic IL-7/IL-7R axis are evident, consistent with a process of immune exhaustion. IL-27 is an important immunoregulatory cytokine that shares T-cell signaling with IL-7 and other cytokines of the IL-12 family and might be involved in the transcriptional regulation of T-cell function. Here, we evaluated the expression and function of IL-27R in antigen-experienced T cells from subjects with chronic Chagas disease and assessed whether in vitro treatment with IL-27 and IL-7 might improve T. cruzi-specific polyfunctional T-cell responses. In vitro exposure of PBMCs to T. cruzi induced a downregulation of IL-27R in CD4+ T cells and an upregulation in CD8+ T cells in subjects without heart disease, while IL-27R expression remained unaltered in subjects with more severe clinical stages. The modulation of IL-27R was associated with functional signaling through STAT3 and STAT5 and induction of the downstream genes TBX21, EOMES and CXCL9 in response to IL-27. In vitro treatment of PBMCs with IL-27 and IL-7 improved monofunctional and polyfunctional Th1 responses, accompanied by the induction of IL-10 and Bcl-2 expression in subjects without heart disease but did not improve those in subjects with cardiomyopathy. Our findings support the process of desensitization of the IL-27/IL-27R pathway along with disease severity and that the pro-inflammatory and immunomodulatory mechanisms of IL-27 might be interconnected.
We examine the cellular and soluble determinants of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) relative to aging by performing mass cytometry in parallel with clinical blood testing and plasma proteomic profiling of ~4,700 proteins from 71 individuals with pulmonary disease and 148 healthy donors (25-80 years old). Distinct cell populations were associated with age (GZMK+CD8+ T cells and CD25low CD4+ T cells) and with COVID-19 (TBET-EOMES- CD4+ T cells, HLA-DR+CD38+ CD8+ T cells and CD27+CD38+ B cells). A unique population of TBET+EOMES+ CD4+ T cells was associated with individuals with COVID-19 who experienced moderate, rather than severe or lethal, disease. Disease severity correlated with blood creatinine and urea nitrogen levels. Proteomics revealed a major impact of age on the disease-associated plasma signatures and highlighted the divergent contribution of hepatocyte and muscle secretomes to COVID-19 plasma proteins. Aging plasma was enriched in matrisome proteins and heart/aorta smooth muscle cell-specific proteins. These findings reveal age-specific and disease-specific changes associated with COVID-19, and potential soluble mediators of the physiological impact of COVID-19.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells are a barrier for tumor immunity and a target for immunotherapy. Using single-cell transcriptomics, we found that CD4+ T cells infiltrating primary and metastatic colorectal cancer and non-small-cell lung cancer are highly enriched for two subsets of comparable size and suppressor function comprising forkhead box protein P3+ Treg and eomesodermin homolog (EOMES)+ type 1 regulatory T (Tr1)-like cells also expressing granzyme K and chitinase-3-like protein 2. EOMES+ Tr1-like cells, but not Treg cells, were clonally related to effector T cells and were clonally expanded in primary and metastatic tumors, which is consistent with their proliferation and differentiation in situ. Using chitinase-3-like protein 2 as a subset signature, we found that the EOMES+ Tr1-like subset correlates with disease progression but is also associated with response to programmed cell death protein 1-targeted immunotherapy. Collectively, these findings highlight the heterogeneity of Treg cells that accumulate in primary tumors and metastases and identify a new prospective target for cancer immunotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Mechanisms driving the progression of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) from its early stages are not fully understood. The acquisition of molecular changes at the time of progression has been observed in a small fraction of patients, suggesting that CLL progression is not mainly driven by dynamic clonal evolution. In order to shed light on mechanisms that lead to CLL progression, we investigated longitudinal changes in both the genetic and immunological scenarios.METHODS: We performed genetic and immunological longitudinal analysis using paired primary samples from untreated CLL patients that underwent clinical progression (sampling at diagnosis and progression) and from patients with stable disease (sampling at diagnosis and at long-term asymptomatic follow-up).RESULTS: Molecular analysis showed limited and non-recurrent molecular changes at progression, indicating that clonal evolution is not the main driver of clinical progression. Our analysis of the immune kinetics found an increasingly dysfunctional CD8+ T cell compartment in progressing patients that was not observed in those patients that remained asymptomatic. Specifically, terminally exhausted effector CD8+ T cells (T-betdim/-EomeshiPD1hi) accumulated, while the the co-expression of inhibitory receptors (PD1, CD244 and CD160) increased, along with an altered gene expression profile in T cells only in those patients that progressed. In addition, malignant cells from patients at clinical progression showed enhanced capacity to induce exhaustion-related markers in CD8+ T cells ex vivo mainly through a mechanism dependent on soluble factors including IL-10.CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, we demonstrate that the interaction with the immune microenvironment plays a key role in clinical progression in CLL, thereby providing a rationale for the use of early immunotherapeutic intervention.
BACKGROUND: Gamma-delta (γδ) T lymphocytes are primed to potently respond to pathogens and transformed cells by recognizing a broad range of antigens. However, adoptive immunotherapy with γδT cells has exhibited mixed treatment responses. Better understanding of γδT cell biology and stratifying healthy donors for allogeneic adoptive therapy is clinically needed to fully realize the therapeutic potential of γδT cells.METHODS: We examine 98 blood samples from healthy donors and measure their expansion capacity after zoledronate stimulation, and test the migration and cytotoxic effector function of expanded γδT cells in 2D culture, 3D tumor spheroid and patient-derived melanoma organoid assays.RESULTS: We find that γδT cell expansion capacity is independent of expansion methods, gender, age and HLA type. Basal γδT cell levels in Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) correlate well with their expansion, migration and cytotoxic effector capacity in vitro. Circulating γδT cells with lower expression of PD-1, CTLA-4, Eomes, T-bet and CD69, or higher IFN-γ production expand better. γδT cells with central memory and effector memory phenotypes are significantly more abundant in good expanders. A cut-off level of 0.82% γδT cells in PBMC stratifies good versus poor γδT cell expansion with a sensitivity of 97.78%, specificity of 90.48% and area under the curve of 0.968 in a healthy individual. Donors with higher Vδ2 Index Score in PBMC have greater anti-tumor functions including migratory function and cytotoxicity.CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that the interindividual γδT cell functions correlate with their circulating levels in healthy donors. Examination of circulating γδT cell level may be used to select healthy donors to participate in γδT-based immunotherapies.
In addition to driving specific gene expression profiles, transcriptional regulators are becoming increasingly recognized for their capacity to modulate chromatin structure. GATA6 is essential for the formation of definitive endoderm; however, the molecular basis defining the importance of GATA6 to endoderm commitment is poorly understood. The members of the GATA family of transcription factors have the capacity to bind and alter the accessibility of chromatin. Using pluripotent stem cells as a model of human development, we reveal that GATA6 is integral to the establishment of the endoderm enhancer network via the induction of chromatin accessibility and histone modifications. We additionally identify the chromatin-modifying complexes that interact with GATA6, defining the putative mechanisms by which GATA6 modulates chromatin architecture. The identified GATA6-dependent processes further our knowledge of the molecular mechanisms that underpin cell-fate decisions during formative development.
The T-box transcription factor protein eomesodermin (Eomes) is known for both homeostasis and function of effector and memory CD8+T cells. However, much less is known about the functional regulation of Eomes on CD8+ T cells during pregnancy. In the present study, we concluded the higher Eomes expression dCD8+T cells during normal early pregnancy. The number of Eomes+dCD8+T cells decreased in miscarriage. This Eomes+dCD8+T cell subset also expressed less growth-promoting factors, shifted toward pro-inflammatory phenotype in miscarriage. Primary Trophoblasts and HTR8/SVneo cell line could increase Eomes expression of dCD8+T cells from both normal early pregnancy and miscarriage, which might provide a new strategy for therapy to promote maternal-fetal tolerance and prevent pregnancy loss. These findings indicated that Eomes might be promising early warming targets of miscarriage. In addition, this study suggested that the reproductive safety must be a criterion considered in modulating the dose and function of Eomes in CD8+T cells to reverse T cell exhaustion.
Collective clinical and immunologic findings of defects in the CD27-CD70 axis indicate a primary immunodeficiency associated with terminal B-cell development defect and immune dysregulation leading to autoimmunity, uncontrolled viral infection, and lymphoma. Since the molecular mechanism underlying this entity of primary immunodeficiency has been recently described, more insight regarding the function and profile of immunity is required. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate stimulated antibody production, polyclonal vs. virus-specific T-cell response, and cytokine production of a CD70-deficient patient reported previously with early-onset antibody deficiency suffering from chronic viral infections and B-cell lymphoma. The patient and her family members were subjected to clinical evaluation, immunological assays, and functional analyses. The findings of this study indicate an impaired ability of B cells to produce immunoglobulins, and a poor effector function of T cells was also associated with the severity of clinical phenotype. Reduced proportions of cells expressing the memory marker CD45RO, as well as T-bet and Eomes, were observed in CD70-deficient T cells. The proportion of 2B4+ and PD-1+ virus-specific CD8+ T cells was also reduced in the patient. Although the CD70-mutated individuals presented with early-onset clinical manifestations that were well-controlled by using conventional immunological and anticancer chemotherapies, with better prognosis as compared with CD27-deficient patients, targeted treatment toward specific disturbed immune profile may improve the management and even prevent secondary complications.
Immunosenescence affects innate and adaptive immunity impairing the response to pathogens and vaccines. Chronic infection with cytomegalovirus (CMV) has been shown to drive "early immunosenescence" and can considerably affect both the function and phenotype of immune cells, especially T cells. We have previously shown that the expression of CD57, CD300a, and CD161 was differentially affected by age and chronic CMV infection, indicating that these markers are a hallmark of CMV infection and T-cell aging. The aim of this present study was to clarify whether these 3 markers define distinct T-cell subpopulations with a specific functional and molecular signature. Specifically, we analyzed the effect of age and chronic CMV infection on the functionality of T cells according to CD161, CD300a, and CD57 expression. We found that these markers defined different T-cell subsets, both at the phenotypic and functional levels. CD57 was the best biomarker for CD4+ T-cell cytotoxicity and was a hallmark of CMV infection. CD300a+ T cells were heterogeneous and included different cell subsets. The population of CD161+ T cells dramatically decreased with age, independently of CMV infection, and represented a sign of age-associated immune system alterations. The latter could contribute to an increased risk of autoimmune disease and infection in older adults. Our results underline the importance of better understanding the factors involved in the immunosenescence process to be able to uncover new biomarkers and open new avenues for the investigation and development of novel age-related disease therapies.
The transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes) regulate CD8 T cell exhaustion through undefined mechanisms. Here, we show that the subcellular localization of T-bet and Eomes dictate their regulatory activity in exhausted T cells (TEXs). TEXs had a higher ratio of nuclear Eomes:T-bet than memory T cells (TMEMs) during chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection in preclinical cancer models and in human tumors. Biochemically, T-bet and Eomes compete for the same DNA sequences, including the Pdcd1 T-box. High nuclear T-bet strongly represses Pdcd1 transcription in TMEM, whereas low nuclear T-bet in TEX leads to a dominant effect of Eomes that acts as a weaker repressor of Pdcd1. Blocking PD-1 signaling in TEXs increases nuclear T-bet, restoring stronger repression of Pdcd1, and driving T-bet-associated gene expression programs of chemotaxis, homing, and activation. These data identify a mechanism whereby the T-bet-Eomes axis regulates exhaustion through their nuclear localization, providing insights into how these transcription factors regulate TEX biology.
BACKGROUND: We investigated the effect of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway on CD8+ T cell immunity through Eomesodermin (Eomes) in intensive care unit (ICU) patients with invasive candidiasis (IC) and in a mouse model.METHODS: We evaluated quantitative changes in parameters of the mTOR/phosphorylated ribosomal S6 kinase (pS6K) pathway and immune system at the onset of infection in ICU patients. The study was registered on 28 February 2017 at chictr.org.cn (ChiCTR-ROC-17010750). We also used a mouse model of Candida infection and constructed T-cell-specific mTOR and T-cell-specific tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 1 conditional knockout mice to elucidate the molecular mechanisms.RESULTS: We enrolled 88 patients, including 8 with IC. The IC group had lower CD8+ T cell counts, higher serum levels of mTOR, pS6K, Eomes and interleukin (IL)-6. The mouse model with IC showed results consistent in the clinical study. The CD8+ T cell immune response to IC seemed to be weakened in TSC1 knockout mice compared with wild-type IC mice, demonstrating that mTOR activation resulted in the impaired CD8+ T cell immunity in IC.CONCLUSIONS: In IC, the mTOR activation may play a vital role in impaired CD8+ T cell immunity through enhancing expression of Eomes. The study was registered on 28 February 2017 at chictr.org.cn (identifier ChiCTR-ROC-17010750).
Natural killer (NK) cells and type 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILC1s) are heterogenous innate lymphocytes broadly defined in mice as Lin-NK1.1+NKp46+ cells that express the transcription factor T-BET and produce interferon-γ. The ILC1 definition primarily stems from studies on liver and small intestinal populations. However, NK1.1+NKp46+ cells in the salivary glands, uterus, adipose, and other tissues exhibit nonuniform programs that differ from those of liver or intestinal ILC1s or NK cells. Here, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on murine NK1.1+NKp46+ cells from blood, spleen, various tissues, and solid tumors. We identified gene expression programs of tissue-specific ILC1s, tissue-specific NK cells, and non-tissue-specific populations in blood, spleen, and other tissues largely corresponding to circulating cells. Moreover, we found that circulating NK cell programs were reshaped in tumor-bearing mice. Core programs of circulating and tumor NK cells paralleled conserved human NK cells signatures, advancing our understanding of the human NK-ILC1 spectrum.
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) play an important role in the maintenance of immune and metabolic homeostasis in adipose tissue (AT). The crosstalk between AT ILCs and adipocytes and other immune cells coordinates adipocyte differentiation, beiging, glucose metabolism and inflammation. Although the metabolic and homeostatic functions of mouse ILCs have been extensively investigated, little is known about human adipose ILCs and their roles in obesity and insulin resistance (IR).SUBJECTS/METHODS: Here we characterized T and NK cell populations in omental AT (OAT) from women (n = 18) with morbid obesity and varying levels of IR and performed an integrated analysis of metabolic parameters and adipose tissue transcriptomics.RESULTS: In OAT, we found a distinct population of CD56-NKp46+EOMES+ NK cells characterized by expression of cytotoxic molecules, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and markers of cell activation. AT IFNγ+ NK cells, but not CD4, CD8 or γδ T cells, were positively associated with glucose levels, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and IR. AT NK cells were linked to a pro-inflammatory gene expression profile in AT and developed an effector phenotype in response to IL-12 and IL-15. Moreover, integrated transcriptomic analysis revealed a potential implication of AT IFNγ+ NK cells in controlling adipose tissue inflammation, remodeling, and lipid metabolism.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that a distinct IFNγ-producing NK cell subset is involved in metabolic homeostasis in visceral AT in humans with obesity and may be a potential target for therapy of IR.
Epithelial cell transformation (EMT) plays an important role in the pathogenesis and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We aimed to establish a genetic risk model to evaluate HCC prognosis based on the expression levels of EMT-related genes. The data of HCC patients were collected from TCGA and ICGC databases. Gene expression differential analysis, univariate analysis, and lasso combined with stepwise Cox regression were used to construct the prognostic model. Kaplan-Meier curve, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, calibration analysis, Harrell's concordance index (C-index), and decision curve analysis (DCA) were used to evaluate the predictive ability of the risk model or nomogram. GO and KEGG were used to analyze differently expressed EMT genes, or genes that directly or indirectly interact with the risk-associated genes. A 10-gene signature, including TSC2, ACTA2, SLC2A1, PGF, MYCN, PIK3R1, EOMES, BDNF, ZNF746, and TFDP3, was identified. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed a significant prognostic difference between high- and low-risk groups of patients. ROC curve analysis showed that the risk score model could effectively predict the 1-, 3-, and 5-year overall survival rates of patients with HCC. The nomogram showed a stronger predictive effect than clinical indicators. C-index, DCA, and calibration analysis demonstrated that the risk score and nomogram had high accuracy. The single sample gene set enrichment analysis results confirmed significant differences in the types of infiltrating immune cells between patients in the high- and low-risk groups. This study established a new prediction model of risk gene signature for predicting prognosis in patients with HCC, and provides a new molecular tool for the clinical evaluation of HCC prognosis.
The development of T helper (Th) cell subsets requires activated T cells that respond to a polarizing cytokine environment, resulting in the activation and expression of specific transcription factors. The subset-specific transcription factors are located either in the cytoplasm or in the nucleus, which determine the functional profile of Th populations, inducing the production of specific effector cytokines and functions. Flow cytometry analysis of transcription factors has become very common not only in research but also in immunologic follow-up protocols of patients recruited in clinical trials (as evaluation of CD4+CD25+ FOXP3+ T regulatory cells). Here, we propose and describe one-step protocols to evaluate the expression of transcription factors in mouse and human CD4+ lymphocytes, focusing the critical points of this cytometric approach.
Cytotoxic cells, such as CD8+ T cells or NK cells, have been shown to eliminate virus-infected cells or transformed cells primarily via two pathways: the perforin/granzyme-dependent pathway and the Fas ligand-Fas pathway; however, the precise cytolytic mechanisms have not been clarified thoroughly. In our previous study, we demonstrated that a T-box transcription factor, Eomesodermin (Eomes), may play important roles in activating the perforin pathway besides inducing perforin and granzyme B mRNA expression. In this study, we identified natural killer cell group 7 sequence (Nkg7), a molecule induced by Eomes, to be found critical for perforin-dependent cytolysis. Nkg7 mRNA expression in leukocytes from normal mice was mainly restricted to cells with cytotoxicity such as NK cells, NKT cells, and activated CD8+ T cells. The cytolytic activity of NK cells or CD8+ CTLs from Nkg7-deficient mice against Fas-negative target cells was reduced significantly, whereas Fas ligand-mediated cytolysis by Nkg7-deficient CTLs was not impaired. Further, translocation of granule membrane protein CD107a to the cell surface upon CD3 stimulation was defective in CD8+ CTLs from Nkg7 knockout, whereas surface induction of another granule membrane protein, CD63, was almost normal. In addition, analyses of lytic granules in CTLs by electron microscopy revealed that the number of lytic granules with dense cores was significantly reduced in Nkg7-knockout CTLs. These results indicate that Nkg7 may specifically contribute to efficient cytolysis via the perforin/granzyme pathway by enhancing the exocytosis of a particular type of lytic granules.
BACKGROUND: Numerous trials combining radiation therapy (RT) and immunotherapy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are failing. Using preclinical immune cold models of HNSCC resistant to RT-immune checkpoint inhibitors, we investigate therapeutic approaches of overcoming such resistance by examining the differential microenvironmental response to RT.METHODS: We subjected two HPV-negative orthotopic mouse models of HNSCC to combination RT, regulatory T cells (Treg) depletion, and/or CD137 agonism. Tumor growth was measured and intratumorous and lymph node immune populations were compared among treatment groups. Human gene sets, genetically engineered mouse models DEREG and BATF3-/-, flow and time-of-flight cytometry, RNA-Seq, Treg adoptive transfer studies, and in vitro experiments were used to further evaluate the role of dendritic cells (DCs) and Tregs in these treatments.RESULTS: In MOC2 orthotopic tumors, we find no therapeutic benefit to targeting classically defined immunosuppressive myeloids, which increase with RT. In these radioresistant tumors, supplementing combination RT and Treg depletion with anti-CD137 agonism stimulates CD103+ DC activation in tumor-draining lymph nodes as characterized by increases in CD80+ and CCR7+ DCs, resulting in a CD8 T cell-dependent response. Simultaneously, Tregs are reprogrammed to an effector phenotype demonstrated by increases in interferonγ+, tumor necrosis factorα+, PI3K+, pAKT+ and Eomes+ populations as well as decreases in CTLA4+ and NRP-1+ populations. Tumor eradication is observed when RT is increased to an 8 Gy x 5 hypofractionated regimen and combined with anti-CD25+ anti-CD137 treatment. In a human gene set from oral squamous cell carcinoma tumors, high Treg number is associated with earlier recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Regulating Treg functionality and DC activation status within the lymph node is critical for generating a T cell effector response in these highly radioresistant tumors. These findings underscore the plasticity of Tregs and represent a new therapeutic opportunity for reprogramming the tumor microenvironment in HNSCCs resistant to conventional radioimmunotherapy approaches.
In retinal degenerative disorders, when neural retinal cells are damaged, cell transplantation is one of the most promising therapeutic approaches. Optogenetic technology plays an essential role in the neural differentiation of stem cells via membrane depolarization. This study explored the efficacy of blue light stimulation in neuroretinal differentiation of Opto-mGluR6-engineered mouse retinal pigment epithelium (mRPE) and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). mRPE and BMSCs were selected for optogenetic study due to their capability to differentiate into retinal-specific neurons. BMSCs were isolated and phenotypically characterized by the expression of mesenchymal stem cell-specific markers, CD44 (99%) and CD105 (98.8%). mRPE culture identity was confirmed by expression of RPE-specific marker, RPE65, and epithelial cell marker, ZO-1. mRPE cells and BMSCs were transduced with AAV-MCS-IRES-EGFP-Opto-mGluR6 viral vector and stimulated for 5 days with blue light (470 nm). RNA and protein expression of Opto-mGluR6 were verified. Optogenetic stimulation-induced elevated intracellular Ca2+ levels in mRPE- and BMS-treated cells. Significant increase in cell growth rate and G1/S phase transition were detected in mRPE- and BMSCs-treated cultures. Pou4f1, Dlx2, Eomes, Barlh2, Neurod2, Neurod6, Rorb, Rxrg, Nr2f2, Ascl1, Hes5, and Sox8 were overexpressed in treated BMSCs and Barlh2, Rorb, and Sox8 were overexpressed in treated mRPE cells. Expression of Rho, Thy1, OPN1MW, Recoverin, and CRABP, as retinal-specific neuron markers, in mRPE and BMS cell cultures were demonstrated. Differentiation of ganglion, amacrine, photoreceptor cells, and bipolar and Muller precursors were determined in BMSCs-treated culture and were compared with mRPE. mRPE cells represented more abundant terminal Muller glial differentiation compared with BMSCs. Our results also demonstrated that optical stimulation increased the intracellular Ca2+ level and proliferation and differentiation of Opto-mGluR6-engineered BMSCs. It seems that optogenetic stimulation of mRPE- and BMSCs-engineered cells would be a potential therapeutic approach for retinal degenerative disorders.
Deregulation of chromatin modifiers plays an essential role in the pathogenesis of medulloblastoma, the most common paediatric malignant brain tumour. Here, we identify a BMI1-dependent sensitivity to deregulation of inositol metabolism in a proportion of medulloblastoma. We demonstrate mTOR pathway activation and metabolic adaptation specifically in medulloblastoma of the molecular subgroup G4 characterised by a BMI1High;CHD7Low signature and show this can be counteracted by IP6 treatment. Finally, we demonstrate that IP6 synergises with cisplatin to enhance its cytotoxicity in vitro and extends survival in a pre-clinical BMI1High;CHD7Low xenograft model.
Multiple sclerosis (MS), a putative autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS), commonly presents as relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS), characterized by recurrent episodes of peripheral disabling symptoms resulting from inflammatory CNS damage. Many RRMS patients transition to a chronic disease course with progressive neurological dysfunctions (secondary progressive MS, SPMS), with the progression rate varying between patients and over time. SPMS pathogenesis is now linked to immune-cell-mediated processes, although the mechanisms driving SPMS transition and progression remain elusive, and SPMS lacks biomarkers and effective treatments. We report the crucial involvement of cytotoxic CD4+ T cells expressing Eomes (Eomes+ Th cells) in SPMS pathogenesis-a Th cell subset previously identified in a mouse model of late/chronic autoimmune CNS inflammation. Few Eomes+ Th cells circulate in RRMS patient peripheral blood (n = 44), primary progressive MS (PPMS) patients (n = 25), or healthy controls (n = 42), but Eomes+ Th cells were significantly increased in SPMS (n = 105, P < 0.0001). Strikingly, lymphocytes isolated from SPMS autopsy brain samples revealed CD4+ T cells infiltrating CNS that coexpressed Eomes and the cytotoxic molecule granzyme B. In particular, the Eomes+ Th cell levels were increased in SPMS patients in progressive disease phases versus SPMS patients without current disability increases (P < 0.0001). Moreover, Eomes level acted as a biomarker to predict SPMS patients at risk of disease worsening with over 80% accuracy (ROC-AUC = 0.8276). Overall, our results indicate that granzyme B-expressing Eomes+ T helper cells are involved in the pathogenesis of SPMS, with significant implications for SPMS biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
Previous studies support the role of natural killer (NK) cells in controlling hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression. However, ambiguity remains about the multiplicity and the role of different NK cell subsets, as a pro-oncogenic function has been suggested. We performed phenotypic and functional characterization of NK cells infiltrating HCC, with the corresponding nontumorous tissue and liver from patients undergoing liver resection for colorectal liver metastasis used as controls. We identified a reduced number of NK cells in tumors with higher frequency of CD56BRIGHTCD16- NK cells associated with higher expression of NKG2A, NKp44, and NKp30 and downregulation of NKG2D. Liver-resident (CXCR6+) NK cells were reduced in the tumors where T-bethiEomeslo expression was predominant. HCCs showed higher expression of CD49a with particular enrichment in CD49a+Eomes+ NK cells, a subset typically represented in the decidua and playing a proangiogenic function. Functional analysis showed reduced TNF-α production along with impaired cytotoxic capacity that was inversely related to CXCR6-, T-bethiEomeslo, and CD49a+Eomes+ NK cells. In conclusion, we identified a subset of NK cells infiltrating HCC, including non-liver-resident cells that coexpressed CD49a and Eomes and showed reduced cytotoxic potential. This NK cell subset likely plays a regulatory role in proangiogenic function.
Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are a population of innate-like T cells that utilize a semi-invariant T cell receptor (TCR) α chain and are restricted by the highly conserved antigen presenting molecule MR1. MR1 presents microbial riboflavin biosynthesis derived metabolites produced by bacteria and fungi. Consistent with their ability to sense ligands derived from bacterial sources, MAIT cells have been associated with the immune response to a variety of bacterial infections, such as Mycobacterium spp., Salmonella spp. and Escherichia coli. To date, MAIT cells have been studied in humans, non-human primates and mice. However, they have only been putatively identified in cattle by PCR based methods; no phenotypic or functional analyses have been performed. Here, we identified a MAIT cell population in cattle utilizing MR1 tetramers and high-throughput TCR sequencing. Phenotypic analysis of cattle MAIT cells revealed features highly analogous to those of MAIT cells in humans and mice, including expression of an orthologous TRAV1-TRAJ33 TCR α chain, an effector memory phenotype irrespective of tissue localization, and expression of the transcription factors PLZF and EOMES. We determined the frequency of MAIT cells in peripheral blood and multiple tissues, finding that cattle MAIT cells are enriched in mucosal tissues as well as in the mesenteric lymph node. Cattle MAIT cells were responsive to stimulation by 5-OP-RU and riboflavin biosynthesis competent bacteria in vitro. Furthermore, MAIT cells in milk increased in frequency in cows with mastitis. Following challenge with virulent Mycobacterium bovis, a causative agent of bovine tuberculosis and a zoonosis, peripheral blood MAIT cells expressed higher levels of perforin. Thus, MAIT cells are implicated in the immune response to two major bacterial infections in cattle. These data suggest that MAIT cells are functionally highly conserved and that cattle are an excellent large animal model to study the role of MAIT cells in important zoonotic infections.
Inherited genetic risk factors play a role in multiple myeloma (MM), yet considerable missing heritability exists. Rare risk variants at genome-wide association study (GWAS) loci are a new avenue to explore. Pleiotropy between lymphoid neoplasms (LNs) has been suggested in family history and genetic studies, but no studies have interrogated sequencing for pleiotropic genes or rare risk variants. Sequencing genetically enriched cases can help discover rarer variants. We analyzed exome sequencing in familial or early-onset MM cases to identify rare, functionally relevant variants near GWAS loci for a range of LNs. A total of 149 distinct and significant LN GWAS loci have been published. We identified six recurrent, rare, potentially deleterious variants within 5 kb of significant GWAS single nucleotide polymorphisms in 75 MM cases. Mutations were observed in BTNL2, EOMES, TNFRSF13B, IRF8, ACOXL and TSPAN32. All six genes replicated in an independent set of 255 early-onset MM or familial MM or precursor cases. Expansion of our analyses to the full length of these six genes resulted in a list of 39 rare and deleterious variants, seven of which segregated in MM families. Three genes also had significant rare variant burden in 733 sporadic MM cases compared with 935 control individuals: IRF8 (P = 1.0 × 10-6), EOMES (P = 6.0 × 10-6) and BTNL2 (P = 2.1 × 10-3). Together, our results implicate six genes in MM risk, provide support for genetic pleiotropy between LN subtypes and demonstrate the utility of sequencing genetically enriched cases to identify functionally relevant variants near GWAS loci.
Genome-wide association studies identified a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) affecting the transcription factor Eomesodermin (EOMES) associated with a significantly increased risk to develop chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Epigenetic analyses, RNA sequencing, and flow cytometry revealed that EOMES is not expressed in CLL cells, but in CD8+ T cells for which EOMES is a known master regulator. We thus hypothesized that the increased CLL risk associated with the EOMES SNP might be explained by its negative impact on CD8+ T-cell-mediated immune control of CLL. Flow cytometry analyses revealed a higher EOMES expression in CD8+ T cells of CLL patients compared to healthy individuals, and an accumulation of PD-1+ EOMES+ CD8+ T cells in lymph nodes rather than blood or bone marrow in CLL. This was in line with an observed expansion of EOMES+ CD8+ T cells in the spleen of leukemic Eµ-TCL1 mice. As EOMES expression was highest in CD8+ T cells that express inhibitory receptors, an involvement of EOMES in T-cell exhaustion and dysfunction seems likely. Interestingly, Eomes-deficiency in CD8+ T cells resulted in their impaired expansion associated with decreased CLL control in mice. Overall, these observations suggest that EOMES is essential for CD8+ T-cell expansion and/or maintenance, and therefore involved in adaptive immune control of CLL.
BACKGROUND: The effect of heat stress on livestock production is a worldwide issue. Animal performance is influenced by exposure to harsh environmental conditions potentially causing genotype-by-environment interactions (G × E), especially in highproducing animals. In this context, the main objectives of this study were to (1) detect the time periods in which heifer fertility traits are more sensitive to the exposure to high environmental temperature and/or humidity, (2) investigate G × E due to heat stress in heifer fertility traits, and, (3) identify genomic regions associated with heifer fertility and heat tolerance in Holstein cattle.RESULTS: Phenotypic records for three heifer fertility traits (i.e., age at first calving, interval from first to last service, and conception rate at the first service) were collected, from 2005 to 2018, for 56,998 Holstein heifers raised in 15 herds in the Beijing area (China). By integrating environmental data, including hourly air temperature and relative humidity, the critical periods in which the heifers are more sensitive to heat stress were located in more than 30 days before the first service for age at first calving and interval from first to last service, or 10 days before and less than 60 days after the first service for conception rate. Using reaction norm models, significant G × E was detected for all three traits regarding both environmental gradients, proportion of days exceeding heat threshold, and minimum temperature-humidity index. Through single-step genome-wide association studies, PLAG1, AMHR2, SP1, KRT8, KRT18, MLH1, and EOMES were suggested as candidate genes for heifer fertility. The genes HCRTR1, AGRP, PC, and GUCY1B1 are strong candidates for association with heat tolerance.CONCLUSIONS: The critical periods in which the reproductive performance of heifers is more sensitive to heat stress are trait-dependent. Thus, detailed analysis should be conducted to determine this particular period for other fertility traits. The considerable magnitude of G × E and sire re-ranking indicates the necessity to consider G × E in dairy cattle breeding schemes. This will enable selection of more heat-tolerant animals with high reproductive efficiency under harsh climatic conditions. Lastly, the candidate genes identified to be linked with response to heat stress provide a better understanding of the underlying biological mechanisms of heat tolerance in dairy cattle.
Over one billion adults worldwide are estimated to suffer from sleep apnea, a condition with wide-reaching effects on brain health. Sleep apnea causes cognitive decline and is a risk factor for neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease. Rodents exposed to intermittent hypoxia (IH), a hallmark of sleep apnea, exhibit spatial memory deficits associated with impaired hippocampal neurophysiology and dysregulated adult neurogenesis. We demonstrate that IH creates a pro-oxidant condition that reduces the Tbr2+ neural progenitor pool early in the process, while also suppressing terminal differentiation of adult born neurons during late adult neurogenesis. We further show that IH-dependent cell-autonomous hypoxia inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1a) signaling is activated in early neuroprogenitors and enhances the generation of adult born neurons upon termination of IH. Our findings indicate that oscillations in oxygen homeostasis, such as those found in sleep apnea, have complex stage-dependent influence over hippocampal adult neurogenesis.
Tributyltin (TBT) is a persistent organotin pollutant widely used as agricultural and wood biocides, exhibiting well-documented toxicity to reproductive functions in aquatic organisms. However, the effect of TBT on early pregnancy and placental development has been rarely studied in mice. Pregnant mice were fed with 0, 0.2, and 2 mg/kg/day TBT from gravid day 1 to day 8 or 13. TBT exposure led to an increase in the number of resorbed embryo and a reduction in the weight of fetus at gestational days 13. Further study showed that TBT significantly decreased placental weight and area, lowered laminin immunoreactivity and the expressions of placental development-related molecules including Fra1, Eomes, Hand1, and Ascl2. Moreover, TBT treatment markedly inhibited the placental proliferation and induced up-regulation of p53 and cleaved caspase-3 proteins, and down-regulation of Bcl-2 protein. In addition, TBT administration increased levels of malondialdehyde and H2 O2 and decreased activities of catalase and superoxide dismutase. Collectively, these results suggested TBT-induced adverse pregnancy outcomes during early pregnancy might be involved in developmental disorders of the placenta via dysregulation of key molecules, proliferation, apoptosis, and oxidative stress.
In the mammalian neocortex, projection neuron types are sequentially generated by the same pool of neural progenitors. How neuron type specification is related to developmental timing remains unclear. To determine whether temporal gene expression in neural progenitors correlates with neuron type specification, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) analysis of the developing mouse neocortex. We uncovered neuroepithelial cell enriched genes such as Hmga2 and Ccnd1 when compared to radial glial cells (RGCs). RGCs display dynamic gene expression over time; for instance, early RGCs express higher levels of Hes5, and late RGCs show higher expression of Pou3f2 Interestingly, intermediate progenitor cell marker gene Eomes coexpresses temporally with known neuronal identity genes at different developmental stages, though mostly in postmitotic cells. Our results delineate neural progenitor cell diversity in the developing mouse neocortex and support that neuronal identity genes are transcriptionally evident in Eomes-positive cells.
Decidual CD4+T (dCD4+T) cells play pivotal roles in inducing and maintaining maternal-fetal tolerance. Dysfunctional dCD4+T cells are associated with miscarriage. In the present study, we demonstrated that the T-box transcription factor protein eomesodermin (Eomes) was involved in the functional regulation of dCD4+T cells during early pregnancy. We concluded the higher Eomes expression dCD4+T cells during normal pregnancy, and the Eomes+dCD4+T cells displayed an active status and produced more Th2- and Treg type cytokines. Decreased number and altered function of Eomes+dCD4+T cells were observed in miscarriage. Progesterone, the traditional treatment for miscarriage, had no effect on Eomes expression by dCD4+T cells from normal pregnancy, but increased Eomes expression by dCD4+T cells from miscarriage. We also found the higher frequency of Eomes+dCD4+T cells from miscarriage in response to cyclosporine, tacrolimus, Trophoblasts, and HTR8/SVneo cell line, might provide new strategy for therapy to promote maternal-fetal tolerance and prevent pregnancy loss. These results indicated that Eomes might be promising early warming targets of miscarriage, though further studies are required to determine that the altered number and function of Eomes+dCD4+T cells are the cause or consequence of miscarriage.
The hippocampus is a brain area central for cognition. Mutations in the human SOX2 transcription factor cause neurodevelopmental defects, leading to intellectual disability and seizures, together with hippocampal dysplasia. We generated an allelic series of Sox2 conditional mutations in mouse, deleting Sox2 at different developmental stages. Late Sox2 deletion (from E11.5, via Nestin-Cre) affects only postnatal hippocampal development; earlier deletion (from E10.5, Emx1-Cre) significantly reduces the dentate gyrus (DG), and the earliest deletion (from E9.5, FoxG1-Cre) causes drastic abnormalities, with almost complete absence of the DG. We identify a set of functionally interconnected genes (Gli3, Wnt3a, Cxcr4, p73 and Tbr2), known to play essential roles in hippocampal embryogenesis, which are downregulated in early Sox2 mutants, and (Gli3 and Cxcr4) directly controlled by SOX2; their downregulation provides plausible molecular mechanisms contributing to the defect. Electrophysiological studies of the Emx1-Cre mouse model reveal altered excitatory transmission in CA1 and CA3 regions.
CTLA-4 blockade in combination with an agonist OX40-specific monoclonal antibody synergizes to augment antitumor immunity through enhanced T-cell effector function, leading to increased survival in preclinical cancer models. We have shown previously that anti-OX40/anti-CTLA-4 combination therapy synergistically enhances the expression of Eomesodermin (Eomes) in CD8+ T cells. Eomes is a critical transcription factor for the differentiation and memory function of CD8+ T cells. We hypothesized that EomeshiCD8+ T cells were necessary for anti-OX40/anti-CTLA-4 immunotherapy efficacy and that further enhancement of this population would improve tumor-free survival. Indeed, CD8+ T cell-specific deletion of Eomes abrogated the efficacy of anti-OX40/anti-CTLA-4 therapy. We also found that anti-OX40/anti-CTLA-4-induced EomeshiCD8+ T cells expressed lower levels of checkpoint receptors (PD1, Tim-3, and Lag-3) and higher levels of effector cytokines (IFNγ and TNFα) than their Eomeslo counterparts. Eomes expression is negatively regulated in T cells through interleukin-2-inducible T-cell kinase (ITK) signaling. We investigated the impact of modulating ITK signaling with ibrutinib, an FDA-approved tyrosine kinase inhibitor, and found that anti-OX40/anti-CTLA-4/ibrutinib therapy further enhanced CD8+ T cell-specific Eomes expression, leading to enhanced tumor regression and improved survival, both of which were associated with increased T-cell effector function across multiple tumor models. Taken together, these data demonstrate the potential of anti-OX40/anti-CTLA-4/ibrutinib as a triple therapy to improve the efficacy of immunotherapy.
During vertebrate gastrulation, mesoderm is induced in pluripotent cells, concomitant with dorsal-ventral patterning and establishing of the dorsal axis. We applied single-cell chromatin accessibility and transcriptome analyses to explore the emergence of cellular heterogeneity during gastrulation in Xenopus tropicalis. Transcriptionally inactive lineage-restricted genes exhibit relatively open chromatin in animal caps, whereas chromatin accessibility in dorsal marginal zone cells more closely reflects transcriptional activity. We characterized single-cell trajectories and identified head and trunk organizer cell clusters in early gastrulae. By integrating chromatin accessibility and transcriptome data, we inferred the activity of transcription factors in single-cell clusters and tested the activity of organizer-expressed transcription factors in animal caps, alone or in combination. The expression profile induced by a combination of Foxb1 and Eomes most closely resembles that observed in the head organizer. Genes induced by Eomes, Otx2, or the Irx3-Otx2 combination are enriched for maternally regulated H3K4me3 modifications, whereas Lhx8-induced genes are marked more frequently by zygotically controlled H3K4me3. Taken together, our results show that transcription factors cooperate in a combinatorial fashion in generally open chromatin to orchestrate zygotic gene expression.
Sustaining efficacious T cell-mediated antitumor immune responses in the tumor tissues is the key to the success of cancer immunotherapy. Current strategies leverage altering the signals T cells sense in the tumor microenvironment (TME). Checkpoint inhibitor-based approaches block inhibitory signals such as PD-1 whereas cytokine-based therapies increase the level of immune-stimulatory cytokines such as IL-2. Besides extrinsic signals, the genetic circuit within T cells also participates in determining the nature and trajectory of antitumor immune responses. Here, we showed that efficacy of the IL33-based tumor immunotherapy was greatly enhanced in mice with T cell-specific Eomes deficiency. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that Eomes deficient mice had diminished proportions of exhausted/dysfunctional CD8+ T cells but increased percentages of tissue resident and stem-like CD8+ T cells in the TME. In addition, the IFNγ+TCF1+ CD8+ T cell subset was markedly increased in the Eomes deficient mice. We further demonstrated that Eomes bound directly to the transcription regulatory regions of exhaustion and tissue residency genes. In contrast to its role in inhibiting T cell immune responses at the tumor site, Eomes promoted generation of central memory T cells in the peripheral lymphoid system and memory recall responses against tumor growth at a distal tissue site. Finally, we showed that Eomes deficiency in T cells also resulted in increased efficacy of PD-1-blockade tumor immunotherapy. In all, our study indicates that Eomes plays a critical role in restricting prolonged T cell-mediated antitumor immune responses in the TME whereas promoting adaptive immunity in peripheral lymphoid organs.
The transcription factor eomesodermin (EOMES) promotes interleukin (IL)-10 expression in CD4+ T cells, which has been linked to immunosuppressive and cytotoxic activities. We detected cytotoxic, programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) and EOMES co-expressing CD4+ T cells in lymph nodes (LNs) of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Transcriptome and flow cytometry analyses revealed that EOMES does not only drive IL-10 expression, but rather controls a unique transcriptional signature in CD4+ T cells, that is enriched in genes typical for T regulatory type 1 (TR1) cells. The TR1 cell identity of these CD4+ T cells was supported by their expression of interferon gamma and IL-10, as well as inhibitory receptors including PD-1. TR1 cells with cytotoxic capacity accumulate also in Eµ-TCL1 mice that develop CLL-like disease. Whereas wild-type CD4+ T cells control TCL1 leukemia development after adoptive transfer in leukopenic Rag2-/- mice, EOMES-deficient CD4+ T cells failed to do so. We further show that TR1 cell-mediated control of TCL1 leukemia requires IL-10 receptor (IL-10R) signaling, as Il10rb-deficient CD4+ T cells showed impaired antileukemia activity. Altogether, our data demonstrate that EOMES is indispensable for the development of IL-10-expressing, cytotoxic TR1 cells, which accumulate in LNs of CLL patients and control TCL1 leukemia in mice in an IL-10R-dependent manner.
p53 is a transcription factor that plays a central role in guarding the genomic stability of cells through cell-cycle arrest or induction of apoptosis. However, the effects of p53 in antitumor immunity are poorly understood. To investigate the role of p53 in controlling tumor-immune cell cross-talk, we studied murine syngeneic models treated with HDM201, a potent and selective second-generation MDM2 inhibitor. In response to HDM201 treatment, the percentage of dendritic cells increased, including the CD103+ antigen cross-presenting subset. Furthermore, HDM201 increased the percentage of Tbet+Eomes+ CD8+ T cells and the CD8+/Treg ratio within the tumor. These immunophenotypic changes were eliminated with the knockout of p53 in tumor cells. Enhanced expression of CD80 on tumor cells was observed in vitro and in vivo, which coincided with T-cell-mediated tumor cell killing. Combining HDM201 with PD-1 or PD-L1 blockade increased the number of complete tumor regressions. Responding mice developed durable, antigen-specific memory T cells and rejected subsequent tumor implantation. Importantly, antitumor activity of HDM201 in combination with PD-1/PD-L1 blockade was abrogated in p53-mutated and knockout syngeneic tumor models, indicating the effect of HDM201 on the tumor is required for triggering antitumor immunity. Taken together, these results demonstrate that MDM2 inhibition triggers adaptive immunity, which is further enhanced by blockade of PD-1/PD-L1 pathway, thereby providing a rationale for combining MDM2 inhibitors and checkpoint blocking antibodies in patients with wild-type p53 tumors. SIGNIFICANCE: This study provides a mechanistic rationale for combining checkpoint blockade immunotherapy with MDM2 inhibitors in patients with wild-type p53 tumors.
Background: Targeting exhausted T (Tex) cells is a promising strategy for anti-tumour treatment. Previously, we demonstrated that Hirsutella sinensis fungus (HSF) could significantly increase T cell infiltration and the effector T cell ratio in the tumor microenvironment, activating systemic immune responses. However, we do not know how HSF regulates Tex cells in the tumor microenvironment. Here, we explored the mechanism underlying HSF inhibition of Tex cells and tumor growth and metastasis in breast cancer. Methods: We examined the effects of HSF on various tumor mouse models using in vivo imaging technology. Lung metastasis was detected by H&E staining and the T cell subsets in the tumor microenvironment were assayed with flow cytometry. The in vitro proliferation, function and apoptosis of CD8+ T cells were measured, as well as the T-bet and PD-1 mRNA expressions. Results: HSF inhibited tumor growth and lung metastasis in the mice, and had significantly higher CD44LowCD62LHi and CD44HiCD62LLowpopulations in the tumour-infiltrating CD8+ T cells. However, HSF significantly reduced levels of inhibitory receptors, such as PD-1, TIGIT, CTLA-4, and regulatory T cells. In vitro, HSF inhibited the CD8+ T cell apoptosis rate, and promoted CD8+ T cell proliferation and secretion of interferon (IFN)-γ and granzyme B. Furthermore, HSF treatment both in vivo and in vitro significantly increased Eomes expression, while decreasing T-bet expression. Conclusion: HSF exerted anti-tumour effects mainly through the immune system, by promoting effector/memory T cells and reducing Tex cell production in the tumor microenvironment. The specific mechanisms involved inhibiting T-bet and promoting Eomes to decrease the expression of immune inhibitor receptors and enhance the T cell function, respectively.
Previous studies demonstrated specific expression of transcription factor Tbr2 in unipolar brush cells (UBCs) of the cerebellum during development and adulthood. To further study UBCs and the role of Tbr2 in their development we examined UBC morphology in transgenic mouse lines (reporter and lineage tracer) and also examined the effects of Tbr2 deficiency in Tbr2 (MGI: Eomes) conditional knock-out (cKO) mice. In Tbr2 reporter and lineage tracer cerebellum, UBCs exhibited more complex morphologies than previously reported including multiple dendrites, bifurcating dendrites, and up to four dendritic brushes. We propose that "dendritic brush cells" (DBCs) may be a more apt nomenclature. In Tbr2 cKO cerebellum, mature UBCs were completely absent. Migration of UBC precursors from rhombic lip to cerebellar cortex and other nuclei was impaired in Tbr2 cKO mice. Our results indicate that UBC migration and differentiation are sensitive to Tbr2 deficiency. To investigate whether UBCs develop similarly in humans as in rodents, we studied Tbr2 expression in mid-gestational human cerebellum. Remarkably, Tbr2+ UBC precursors migrate along the same pathways in humans as in rodent cerebellum and disperse to create the same "fountain-like" appearance characteristic of UBCs exiting the rhombic lip.
The mechanisms that drive systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients to achieve remission are unknown; one possible explanation might be T cell exhaustion. The aim of the present study was to measure CD4+ and CD8+ T cell exhaustion in SLE patients in prolonged remission (PR-SLE) and compared them with patients with active SLE (Act-SLE) and healthy subjects. We included 15 PR-SLE patients, 15 Act-SLE and 29 healthy subjects. T cell exhaustion was determined by flow cytometry according to the expression of programmed cell death 1 (PD)-1, T cell immunoglobulin and mucin 3 (Tim-3), natural killer cell receptor (2B4), eomesodermin (EOMES) and T-box transcription factor TBX21 (T-bet) in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Dimensionality reduction using the T-distributed stochastic neighbor-embedding algorithm and clustering analysis was used for the identification of relevant populations. Percentages of CD3+ , CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were similar among groups. We identified five subpopulations of CD8+ and seven of CD4+ cells. The CD4+ T-bet+ CD45RO+ cells identified in the unsupervised analysis were significantly increased in PR-SLE versus Act-SLE [median = 0·20, interquartile range (IQR) = 1·74-30·50 versus 1·68, IQR = 0·4-2·83; P < 0·01]. CD4+ EOMES+ cells were also increased in PR-SLE versus Act-SLE (5·24, IQR = 3·38-14·70 versus 1·39, IQR = 0·48-2·87; P < 0·001). CD8+ EOMES+ cells were increased in PR-SLE versus Act-SLE (37·6, IQR = 24·9-53·2 versus 8·13, IQR = 2·33-20·5; P < 0·001). Exhausted and activated T cells presented an increased frequency of PD-1, CD57 and EOMES in SLE patients versus healthy subjects. Some subpopulations of T cells expressing markers associated with exhaustion are increased in patients in remission, supporting T cell exhaustion as a tolerance mechanism in SLE. Exhaustion of specific populations of T cells might represent a potential therapeutic tool that will contribute to the goal of achieving sustained remission in these patients.
Heterogeneity among naive adaptive lymphocytes determines their individual functions and fate decisions during an immune response. NK cells are innate lymphocytes capable of generating "adaptive" responses during infectious challenges. However, the factors that govern various NK cell functions are not fully understood. In this study, we use a reporter mouse model to permanently "time stamp" NK cells and type 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILC1s) to characterize the dynamics of their homeostatic turnover. We found that the homeostatic turnover of tissue-resident ILC1s is much slower than that of circulating NK cells. NK cell homeostatic turnover is further accelerated without the transcription factor Eomes. Finally, heterogeneity in NK cell age diversifies NK cell function, with "older" NK cells exhibiting more potent IFN-γ production to activating stimuli and more robust adaptive responses during CMV infection. These results provide insight into how the functional response of an NK cell varies over its lifespan.
Erratum in    Nat Cell Biol. 2021 Feb 11;:
Eomesodermin (Eomes), a transcription factor, could suppress the Th17 cell differentiation and proliferation through directly binding to the promoter zone of the Rorc and Il17a gene, meanwhile the expression of Eomes is suppressed when c-Jun directly binds to its promoter zone. Ginkgolide K (1,10-dihydroxy-3,14-didehydroginkgolide, GK) is a diterpene lactone isolated from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba. A previous study indicated that GK could decrease the level of phospho JNK (c-Jun N-terminal kinase). Here, we reported the therapeutic potential of Ginkgolide K (GK) treatment to ameliorate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) disease progression. Methods: EAE was induced in both wildtype and CD4-Eomes conditional knockout mice. GK was injected intraperitoneally. Disease severity, inflammation, and tissue damage were assessed by clinical evaluation, flow cytometry of mononuclear cells (MNCs), and histopathological evaluation. Dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to measure Eomes transcription activity in vitro. The potency of GK (IC50) was determined using JNK1 Kinase Enzyme System. Results: We revealed that GK could ameliorate EAE disease progression by the inhibition of the Th17 cells. Further mechanism studies demonstrated that the level of phospho JNK was decreased and the level of Eomes in CD4+T cells was dramatically increased. This therapeutic effect of GK was almost completely interrupted in CD4-Eomes conditional knockout mice. Conclusions: These results provided the therapeutic potential of GK treatment in EAE, and further suggested that Eomes expression in CD4+T cells might be essential in this process.
Flagellin is the major component of the flagellum, and a ligand for Toll-like receptor 5. As reported, recombinant flagellin (rFLA) from Vibrio anguillarum and its D1 domain (rND1) are able to promote in vitro an upregulation of pro-inflammatory genes in gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata) and rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) macrophages. This study evaluated the in vitro and in vivo stimulatory/adjuvant effect for rFLA and rND1 during P. salmonis vaccination in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). We demonstrated that rFLA and rND1 are molecules able to generate an acute upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-8, IL-12β), allowing the expression of genes associated with T-cell activation (IL-2, CD4, CD8β), and differentiation (IFNγ, IL-4/13, T-bet, Eomes, GATA3), in a differential manner, tissue/time dependent way. Altogether, our results suggest that rFLA and rND1 are valid candidates to be used as an immuno-stimulant or adjuvants with existing vaccines in farmed salmon.
Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) form an array of feature detectors, which convey visual information to central brain regions. Characterizing RGC diversity is required to understand the logic of the underlying functional segregation. Using single-cell transcriptomics, we systematically classified RGCs in adult and larval zebrafish, thereby identifying marker genes for >30 mature types and several developmental intermediates. We used this dataset to engineer transgenic driver lines, enabling specific experimental access to a subset of RGC types. Expression of one or few transcription factors often predicts dendrite morphologies and axonal projections to specific tectal layers and extratectal targets. In vivo calcium imaging revealed that molecularly defined RGCs exhibit specific functional tuning. Finally, chemogenetic ablation of eomesa+ RGCs, which comprise melanopsin-expressing types with projections to a small subset of central targets, selectively impaired phototaxis. Together, our study establishes a framework for systematically studying the functional architecture of the visual system.
Psoriasis vulgaris (PV) is a chronic, recurrent inflammatory dermatosis mediated by aberrantly activated immune cells. The role of the innate-like T cells, particularly gammadelta T (γδT) cells and MR1-restricted T lymphocytes, is incompletely explored, mainly through animal models, or by use of surrogate lineage markers, respectively. Here, we used case-control settings, multiparameter flow cytometry, 5-OP-RU-loaded MR1-tetramers, Luminex technology and targeted qRT-PCR to dissect the cellular and transcriptional landscape of γδ and MR1-restricted blood T cells in untreated PV cases (n=21, 22 matched controls). High interpersonal differences in cell composition were observed, fueling transcriptional variability at healthy baseline. A minor subset of canonical CD4+CD8+MR1-tet+TCRVα7.2+ and CD4+CD8-MR1-tet+TCRVα7.2+ T cells was the most significantly underrepresented community in male PV individuals, whereas Vδ2+ γδ T cells expressing high levels of TCR and Vδ1-δ2- γδ T cells expressing intermediate levels of TCR were selectively enriched in affected males, partly reflecting disease severity. Our findings highlight a formerly unappreciated skewing of human circulating MAIT and γδ cytomes during PV, and reveal their compositional changes in relation to sex, CMV exposure, serum cytokine content, BMI, and inflammatory burden. Complementing numerical alterations, we finally show that flow-sorted, MAIT and γδ populations exhibit divergent transcriptional changes in mild type I psoriasis, consisting of differential bulk expression for signatures of cytotoxicity/type-1 immunity (EOMES, RUNX3, IL18R), type-3 immunity (RORC, CCR6), and T cell innateness (ZBTB16).
T-cell exhaustion is one of the hallmarks in cancer, but the mechanisms underlying T-cell dysregulation remains unclear. Here, we reported that down-regulation of transcription factor EOMES contributed to increased levels of inhibitory receptors in T cell among the tumour tissues and resulted in the poor prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). By analysing the correlation between EOMES in tumour-infiltrating T cells and the clinical features, we demonstrated that the EOMES was related to the advanced stage and poor prognosis of HCC. Further mechanistic studies revealed that the EOMES mainly expressed in the CD8+ T cells and were down-regulated in tumour samples. Moreover, we demonstrated that the EOMES directly bound at the transcriptional regulatory regions of the key inhibitory factors including PD-1, CTAL-4 and CD39, and lower levels of EOMES contributed to overexpression of these factors in T cells. Together, our studies provide new insight into the transcriptional deregulation of the inhibitory receptors on T cells during the tumorigenesis.
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is a potentially curative procedure for many malignant diseases. Donor T cells prevent disease recurrence via graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect. Donor T cells also contribute to graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), a debilitating and potentially fatal complication. Novel treatment strategies are needed which allow preservation of GVL effects without causing GVHD. Using murine models, we show that targeting IL-2-inducible T cell kinase (ITK) in donor T cells reduces GVHD while preserving GVL effects. Both CD8+ and CD4+ donor T cells from Itk-/- mice produce less inflammatory cytokines and show decrease migration to GVHD target organs such as the liver and small intestine, while maintaining GVL efficacy against primary B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Itk-/- T cells exhibit reduced expression of IRF4 and decreased JAK/STAT signaling activity but upregulating expression of Eomesodermin (Eomes) and preserve cytotoxicity, necessary for GVL effect. Transcriptome analysis indicates that ITK signaling controls chemokine receptor expression during alloactivation, which in turn affects the ability of donor T cells to migrate to GVHD target organs. Our data suggest that inhibiting ITK could be a therapeutic strategy to reduce GVHD while preserving the beneficial GVL effects following allo-HSCT treatment.
T lymphocytes accumulate in inflamed tissues of patients with chronic inflammatory diseases (CIDs) and express pro-inflammatory cytokines upon re-stimulation in vitro. Further, a significant genetic linkage to MHC genes suggests that T lymphocytes play an important role in the pathogenesis of CIDs including juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). However, the functions of T lymphocytes in established disease remain elusive. Here we dissect the transcriptional and the clonal heterogeneity of synovial T lymphocytes in JIA patients by single-cell RNA sequencing combined with T cell receptor profiling on the same cells. We identify clonally expanded subpopulations of T lymphocytes expressing genes reflecting recent activation by antigen in situ. A PD-1+ TOX+ EOMES+ population of CD4+ T lymphocytes expressed immune regulatory genes and chemoattractant genes for myeloid cells. A PD-1+ TOX+ BHLHE40+ population of CD4+ , and a mirror population of CD8+ T lymphocytes expressed genes driving inflammation, and genes supporting B lymphocyte activation in situ. This analysis points out that multiple types of T lymphocytes have to be targeted for therapeutic regeneration of tolerance in arthritis.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma(PDAC) is resistant to the PD-1/PD-L1 blockade therapy. Previously, the combination of PD-1 blockade and vaccine therapy was shown to have a modest antitumor activity in murine models of PDAC. We used a murine syngeneic model of metastatic PDAC to identify, among multiple T cell modulators tested, which therapeutic agents in combination with the GVAX cancer vaccine and an anti-PD-1 antagonist antibody(αPD-1) are able to improve the survival. We found that an anti-CD137 agonist antibody(αCD137) most significantly improved survival in the mouse PDAC model. Moreover, αPD-1 and αCD137 together in combination with vaccine therapy more significantly increased the expression of costimulatory molecules CD137 and OX40 on CD4+PD-1+ and CD8+PD-1+ T cells comparing to αPD-1 or αCD137, respectively, suggesting that T cell activation within PDACs were enhanced by a synergy of αCD137 and αPD-1. On another hand, αCD137 treatment led to an increase in effector memory T cells independent of αPD-1. Although αCD137 does not increase the cytotoxic effector T cell function, the addition of αCD137 to GVAX+αPD-1 increased expression of IFNγ in EOMES + exhausted tumor-infiltrating T cells. Taken together, this preclinical study established the mechanism of targeting CD137 to enhance effector memory and activated T cells in PDAC. Immunohistochemistry analysis of resected human PDACs following the neo-adjuvant GVAX treatment showed increased levels of CD8+ T cells in those with high levels of CD137 expression, supporting an ongoing clinical trial of testing CD137 as a potential target in treating PDACs that are inflamed with T cells by vaccine therapy.
Among testicular germ cell tumors, teratomas may often be very aggressive and therapy-resistant. Our aim was to investigate the impact of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) on the in vitro growth of experimental mouse teratoma by treating their embryonic source, the embryo-proper, composed only of the three germ layers. The growth of teratomas was measured for seven days, and histopathological analysis, IHC/morphometry quantification, gene enrichment analysis, and qPCR analysis on a selected panel of pluripotency and early differentiation genes followed. For the first time, within teratomas, we histopathologically assessed the undifferentiated component containing cancer stem cell-like cells (CSCLCs) and differentiated components containing numerous lymphocytes. Mitotic indices were higher than apoptotic indices in both components. Both HDACi treatments of the embryos-proper significantly reduced teratoma growth, although this could be related neither to apoptosis nor proliferation. Trichostatin A increased the amount of CSCLCs, and upregulated the mRNA expression of pluripotency/stemness genes as well as differentiation genes, e.g., T and Eomes. Valproate decreased the amount of CSCLCs, and downregulated the expressions of pluripotency/stemness and differentiation genes. In conclusion, both HDACi treatments diminished the inherent tumorigenic growth potential of the tumor embryonal source, although Trichostatin A did not diminish the potentially dangerous expression of cancer-related genes and the amount of CSCLC.
Virtual memory T (TVM) cells are a recently described population of conventional CD8+ T cells that, in spite of their antigen inexperience, express markers of T cell activation. TVM cells exhibit rapid responsiveness to both antigen-specific and innate stimuli in youth but acquire intrinsic antigen-specific response defects in the elderly. In this article, we review how the identification of TVM cells necessitates a re-evaluation of accepted paradigms for conventional memory T (TMEM) cells, the potential for heterogeneity within the TVM population, and the defining characteristics of TVM cells. Further, we highlight recent literature documenting the development of TVM cells as a distinct CD8+ T cell lineage as well their biological significance in the context of disease.
The role of natural killer (NK) cells in the liver as first-line post infectionem (p.i.) effectors against blood-stage malaria and their responsiveness to protective vaccination is poorly understood. Here, we investigate the effect of vaccination on NK cell-associated genes induced in the liver by blood-stage malaria of Plasmodium chabaudi. Female Balb/c mice were vaccinated at weeks 3 and 1 before being infected with 106P. chabaudi-parasitized erythrocytes. Genes preferentially expressed by NK cells were investigated in livers of vaccination-protected and non-protected mice on days 0, 1, 4, 8, and 11 p.i. using microarrays, qRT-PCR, and chromosome landscape analysis. Blood-stage malaria induces expression of specific genes in the liver at different phases of infection, i.e., Itga1 in expanding liver-resident NK (lrNK) cells, Itga2 in immigrating conventional NK (cNK) cells; Eomes and Tbx21 encoding transcription factors; Ncr1, Tnfsf10, Prf1, Gzma, Gzmb, Gzmc, Gzmm, and Gzmk encoding cytolytic effectors; natural killer gene complex (NKC)-localized genes encoding the NK cell receptors KLRG1, KLRK1, KLRAs1, 2, 5, 7, KLRD1, KLRC1, KLRC3, as well as the three receptors KLRB1A, KLRB1C, KLRB1F and their potential ligands CLEC2D and CLEC2I. Vaccination enhances this malaria-induced expression of genes, but impairs Gzmm expression, accelerates decline of Tnfsf10 and Clec2d expression, whereas it accelerates increased expression of Clec2i, taking a very similar time course as that of genes encoding plasma membrane proteins of erythroblasts, whose malaria-induced extramedullary generation in the liver is known to be accelerated by vaccination. Collectively, vaccination reshapes the response of the liver NK cell compartment to blood-stage malaria. Particularly, the malaria-induced expansion of lrNK cells peaking on day 4 p.i. is highly significantly (p < 0.0001) reduced by enhanced immigration of peripheral cNK cells, and KLRB1F:CLEC2I interactions between NK cells and erythroid cells facilitate extramedullary erythroblastosis in the liver, thus critically contributing to vaccination-induced survival of otherwise lethal blood-stage malaria of P. chabaudi.
Anterior mesoderm (AM) and definitive endoderm (DE) progenitors represent the earliest embryonic cell types that are specified during germ layer formation at the primitive streak (PS) of the mouse embryo. Genetic experiments indicate that both lineages segregate from Eomes-expressing progenitors in response to different Nodal signaling levels. However, the precise spatiotemporal pattern of the emergence of these cell types and molecular details of lineage segregation remain unexplored. We combined genetic fate labeling and imaging approaches with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to follow the transcriptional identities and define lineage trajectories of Eomes-dependent cell types. Accordingly, all cells moving through the PS during the first day of gastrulation express Eomes AM and DE specification occurs before cells leave the PS from Eomes-positive progenitors in a distinct spatiotemporal pattern. ScRNA-seq analysis further suggested the immediate and complete separation of AM and DE lineages from Eomes-expressing cells as last common bipotential progenitor.
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is common in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), however, the relevant mechanism remains elusive. The whole blood gene expression profiles of healthy control, patients with DM, patients with DM and CHD (DMCHD) were used to performed weight gene correlation network analysis (WGCNA) to identify the gene modules associated with DM-related atherogenesis. The candidate module was significantly involved in immune- and T cell activity-related biological process. GSEA results suggested that lysosome and apoptosis were enriched in DM and DMCHD samples. The protein-protein-KEGG pathway network may reveal the potential transcriptional regulatory network involving in DM-related atherosclerosis. Nineteen genes (RTKN, DCP1B, PDZD4, CACNA2D2, TSEN54, PVRIG, PLEKHF1, NKG7, ZAP70, NUDCD3, SLAMF6, CCDC107, NAG6, ZDHHC14, EOMES, VIL2, WDR54, DMAP1, and PMPCA) were considered as DM-related atherogenesis genes (DRAGs). The Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA) score of the DRAG set gradually increased in the control, DM and DMCHD. ROC curve analysis showed that ZAP70, TSEN54, and PLEKHF1 may be potential blood circulation biomarkers for DMCHD in patients with DM. In conclusion, we identified nineteen hallmark genes involving in DM-related atherogenesis and constructed a potential transcriptional regulatory network involving in DM-related atherosclerosis.
Long-term subjection to shift work increases the risk of cancer. The purpose of the present study was to explore the mechanism by which chronic circadian disruption impairs natural killer (NK) cell immunosurveillance. Mice were subjected to light-dark reverse every 4 days for 12 weeks to disrupt normal circadian rhythm. NK cell development and function were evaluated by flow cytometry. The mRNA and protein levels of period 1 (per1) and per2 were suppressed, while circadian locomotor output cycle kaput (CLOCK) was increased in the shifted mice, indicating successful generation of the circadian rhythm disruption mouse model. Chronic shift-lag promoted NK cell ageing, which is likely due to the reduction in Ly49 family receptor expression in shifted NK. We further studied the effects of circadian rhythm disruption on NK cell function. Chronic shift-lag inhibited NK cell secretion of granular CD107a and interferon gamma. Moreover, chronic shift-lag attenuated the clearance of MHC-I-deficient tumour cells by NK cells in vivo and promoted lung metastasis of B16F10 melanomas. Furthermore, chronic shift-lag reduced NK cell killing function, which may be due to the suppression of Eomes transcription factor expression, which inhibiting the transcription of CD122. In conclusion, our findings suggest that chronic circadian disruption attenuates NK cell cytolytic activity by decreasing the expression of CD122.
Comment on    J Exp Med. 2021 Jan 4;218(1):
Comment in    Am J Transplant. 2021 Jul;21(7):2319-2320.
Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a T-box transcription factor that drives the differentiation and function of cytotoxic lymphocytes. However, the underlying function and mechanism of Eomes in tumor cells remains elusive. Here, we studied the role of Eomes in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Using 2 human ESCC cell lines, we found that Eomes knockdown reduced esophageal cancer cell proliferation and that the esophageal cancer cell cycle was blocked in the G2/M phase. Mechanistically, we identified CCL20 as the main downstream target of Eomes. Furthermore, we found that CCL20 could chemoregulate regulatory T cells (Tregs) through their specific receptor CCR6, then promoting the proliferation of esophageal cancer cells. Eomes knockdown also delayed the growth of human ESCC xenografts in BALB/c nude mice. Importantly, in 133 human ESCC tissues, high Eomes levels were associated with poor clinical prognosis. Overall, our findings suggested that the Eomes-CCL20-CCR6 pathway plays a vital role in human ESCC progress. Therefore, targeting this pathway may represent a promising strategy for controlling human ESCC.
Comment in    Immunity. 2020 Oct 13;53(4):704-706.    Cell Mol Immunol. 2022 Sep;19(9):969-970.
Subependymal giant-cell astrocytomas (SEGAs) are slow-growing brain tumors that are a hallmark feature seen in 5-10% of patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC). Though histologically benign, they can cause serious neurologic symptoms, leading to death if untreated. SEGAs consistently show biallelic loss of TSC1 or TSC2. Herein, we aimed to define other somatic events beyond TSC1/TSC2 loss and identify potential transcriptional drivers that contribute to SEGA formation. Paired tumor-normal whole-exome sequencing was performed on 21 resected SEGAs from 20 TSC patients. Pathogenic variants in TSC1/TSC2 were identified in 19/21 (90%) SEGAs. Copy neutral loss of heterozygosity (size range: 2.2-46 Mb) was seen in 76% (16/21) of SEGAs (44% chr9q and 56% chr16p). An average of 1.4 other somatic variants (range 0-7) per tumor were identified, unlikely of pathogenic significance. Whole transcriptome RNA-sequencing analyses revealed 190 common differentially expressed genes in SEGA (n = 16, 13 from a prior study) in pairwise comparison to each of: low grade diffuse gliomas (n = 530) and glioblastoma (n = 171) from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) consortium, ganglioglioma (n = 10), TSC cortical tubers (n = 15), and multiple normal tissues. Among these, homeobox transcription factors (TFs) HMX3, HMX2, VAX1, SIX3; and TFs IRF6 and EOMES were all expressed >12-fold higher in SEGAs (FDR/q-value < 0.05). Immunohistochemistry supported the specificity of IRF6, VAX1, SIX3 for SEGAs in comparison to other tumor entities and normal brain. We conclude that SEGAs have an extremely low somatic mutation rate, suggesting that TSC1/TSC2 loss is sufficient to drive tumor growth. The unique and highly expressed SEGA-specific TFs likely reflect the neuroepithelial cell of origin, and may also contribute to the transcriptional and epigenetic state that enables SEGA growth following two-hit loss of TSC1 or TSC2 and mTORC1 activation.
Deficiency in decidualization has been widely regarded as an important cause of spontaneous abortion. Generalized decidualization also includes massive infiltration and enrichment of NK cells. However, the underlying mechanism of decidual NK (dNK) cell residence remains largely unknown. Here, we observe that the increased macroautophagy/autophagy of decidual stromal cells (DSCs) during decidualization, facilitates the adhesion and retention of dNK cells during normal pregnancy. Mechanistically, this process is mediated through activation of the MITF-TNFRSF14/HVEM signaling, and further upregulation of multiple adhesion adhesions (e.g. Selectins and ICAMs) in a MMP9-dependent manner. Patients with unexplained spontaneous abortion display insufficient DSC autophagy and dNK cell residence. In addition, poor vascular remodeling of placenta, low implantation number and high ratio of embryo loss are observed in NK cell depletion mice. In therapeutic studies, low doses of rapamycin, a known autophagy inducer that significantly promotes endometrium autophagy and NK cell residence, and improves embryo absorption in spontaneous abortion mice models, which should be dependent on the activation of MITF-TNFRSF14/HVEM-MMP9-adhension molecules axis. This observation reveals novel molecular mechanisms underlying DSCs autophagy-driven dNK cell residence, and provides a potential therapeutic strategy to prevent spontaneous abortion.Abbreviations: ACTA2/αSMA: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ATG: autophagy-related; ATG5over ESC: ATG5-overexpressed ESCs; BTLA: B and T lymphocyte associated; CDH1: cadherin 1; CDH5: cadherin 5; CXCL12: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12; dNK: decidual NK; DIC: decidual immune cell; DSC: decidual stromal cell; EOMES: eomesodermin; ESC: endometrial stromal cell; FCGR3A/CD16: Fc fragment of IgG receptor IIIa; HUVEC: human umbilical vein endothelial cell; ICAM: intercellular cell adhesion molecule; ILC: innate lymphoid cell; ITGB1: integrin subunit beta 1; ITGA2: integrin subunit alpha 2; IPA: Ingenuity Pathway Analysis; KIR2DL1: killer cell immunoglobulin like receptor, two Ig domains and long cytoplasmic tail 1; KLRD1/CD94: killer cell lectin like receptor D1; KLRK1/NKG2D: killer cell lectin like receptor K1; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; MITF: melanocyte inducing transcription factor; MiT-TFE: microphthalmia family of bHLH-LZ transcription factors; MMP9: matrix metalloproteinase 9; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NCAM1/CD56: neural cell adhesion molecule 1; NCR2/NKp44: natural cytotoxicity triggering receptor 2; NK: natural killer; KLRB1/NK1.1: killer cell lectin like receptor B1; NP: normal pregnancy; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; pNK: peripheral blood NK; PRF1/Perforin: Perforin 1; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C; Rapa: rapamycin; rh-TNFSF14/LIGHT: recombinant human TNFSF14/LIGHT; SA: spontaneous abortion; SELE: selectin E; SELP: selectin P; SELL: selectin L; siATG5 DSCs: ATG5-silenced DSCs; siTNFRSF14/HVEM DSCs: TNFRSF14/HVEM-silenced DSCs; TBX21/T-bet: T-box transcription factor 21; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TNFRSF14/HVEM: TNF receptor superfamily member 14; TNFSF14/LIGHT: TNF superfamily member 14; uNK: uterine NK; UIC: uterine immune cell; USC: uterine stromal cell; VCAM1: vascular cell adhesion molecule 1; VIM: vimentin.
Comment in    J Exp Med. 2021 Jan 4;218(1):
The two T-box transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes) are important regulators of cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTLs), such as activated CD8 T cells, which are essential in the fight against intracellular pathogens and tumors. Both transcription factors share a great degree of homology based on sequence analysis and as a result exert partial functional redundancy during viral infection. However, the actual degree of redundancy between T-bet and Eomes remains a matter of debate and is further confounded by their distinct spatiotemporal expression pattern in activated CD8 T cells. To directly investigate the functional overlap of these transcription factors, we generated a new mouse model in which Eomes expression is under the transcriptional control of the endogenous Tbx21 (encoding for T-bet) locus. Applying this model, we demonstrate that the induction of Eomes in lieu of T-bet cannot rescue T-bet deficiency in CD8 T cells during acute lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection. We found that the expression of Eomes instead of T-bet was not sufficient for early cell expansion or effector cell differentiation. Finally, we show that imposed expression of Eomes after acute viral infection promotes some features of exhaustion but must act in concert with other factors during chronic viral infection to establish all hallmarks of exhaustion. In summary, our results clearly underline the importance of T-bet in guiding canonical CTL development during acute viral infections.
PURPOSE: Trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27me3) is a critical mediator of transcriptional gene repression, and Jmjd3 and Utx are the demethylases specific to H3K27me3. Using an in vitro retinal explant culture system, we previously revealed the role of Jmjd3 in the development of rod bipolar cells; however, the roles of Jmjd3 in the development of early-born retinal cells are unknown due to limitations concerning the use of retinal explant culture systems. In this study, we investigated the roles of Jmjd3 in the development of early-born retinal cells.METHODS: We examined retina-specific conditional Jmjd3 knockout (Jmjd3-cKO) mice using immunohistochemistry and quantitative reverse transcription PCR and JMJD3 binding to a target locus by chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis.RESULTS: We observed reductions in amacrine cells (ACs) and horizontal cells (HCs), as well as lowered expression levels of several transcription factors involved in the development of ACs and HCs in the Jmjd3-cKO mouse retina. JMJD3 bound the promoter regions of these transcription factors. Notably, an elevated number of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) was observed at embryonic stages, whereas RGCs were moderately reduced at later postnatal stages in the Jmjd3-cKO retina. We also observed reduced expression of Eomes, which is required for the maintenance of RGCs, as well as lower H3K27me3 level and lower JMJD3 binding in the promoter region of Eomes in RGC-enriched cells.CONCLUSIONS: The results indicated that Jmjd3 has critical roles in the development of early-born retinal subtypes, and suggested biphasic roles of Jmjd3 in RGC production and maintenance.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) which is caused by the novel SARS-CoV-2 virus is a severe flu-like illness which is associated with hyperinflammation and immune dysfunction. The virus induces a strong T and B cell response but little is known about the immune pathology of this viral infection. Acute Plasmodium falciparum malaria also causes acute clinical illness and is characterized by hyperinflammation due to the strong production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and a massive activation of T cells. In malaria, T cells express a variety of co-inhibitory receptors which might be a consequence of their activation but also might limit their overwhelming function. Thus, T cells are implicated in protection as well as in pathology. The outcome of malaria is thought to be a consequence of the balance between co-activation and co-inhibition of T cells. Following the hypothesis that T cells in COVID-19 might have a similar, dual function, we comprehensively characterized the differentiation (CCR7, CD45RO) and activation status (HLA-DR, CD38, CD69, CD226), the co-expression of co-inhibitory molecules (PD1, TIM-3, LAG-3, BTLA, TIGIT), as well as the expression pattern of the transcription factors T-bet and eomes of CD8+ and CD4+ T cells of PBMC of n = 20 SARS-CoV-2 patients compared to n = 10 P. falciparum infected patients and n = 13 healthy controls. Overall, acute COVID-19 and malaria infection resulted in a comparably elevated activation and altered differentiation status of the CD8+ and CD4+ T cell populations. T effector cells of COVID-19 and malaria patients showed higher frequencies of the inhibitory receptors T-cell immunoglobulin mucin-3 (TIM-3) and Lymphocyte-activation gene-3 (LAG-3) which was linked to increased activation levels and an upregulation of the transcription factors T-bet and eomes. COVID-19 patients with a more severe disease course showed higher levels of LAG-3 and TIM-3 than patients with a mild disease course. During recovery, a rapid normalization of these inhibitory receptors could be observed. In summary, comparing the expression of different co-inhibitory molecules in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells in COVID-19 vs. malaria, there is a transient increase of the expression of certain inhibitory receptors like LAG-3 and TIM-3 in COVID-19 in the overall context of acute immune activation.
Chronic infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) can cause progressive loss of immune cell function, or exhaustion, which impairs control of virus replication. However, little is known about the development and maintenance, as well as heterogeneity of immune cell exhaustion. Here, we investigated the effects of HIV infection on immune cell exhaustion at the transcriptomic level by analyzing single-cell RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from four healthy subjects (37,847 cells) and six HIV-infected donors (28,610 cells). We identified nine immune cell clusters and eight T cell subclusters, and three of these (exhausted CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and interferon-responsive CD8+ T cells) were detected only in samples from HIV-infected donors. An inhibitory receptor KLRG1 was identified in a HIV-1 specific exhausted CD8+ T cell population expressing KLRG1, TIGIT, and T-betdimEomeshi markers. Ex-vivo antibody blockade of KLRG1 restored the function of HIV-specific exhausted CD8+ T cells demonstrating the contribution of KLRG1+ population to T cell exhaustion and providing an immunotherapy target to treat HIV chronic infection. These data provide a comprehensive analysis of gene signatures associated with immune cell exhaustion during HIV infection, which could be useful in understanding exhaustion mechanisms and developing new cure therapies.
Conventional immunosuppressants cause side effects and do not prevent the recurrence of autoimmune diseases. Moreover, they may not inhibit autoimmunity mediated by pathogenic memory T-cells. Dihydroartemisinin (DHA) has been shown to regulate autoimmunity. However, it remains unknown whether DHA impacts psoriasis and its recurrence. The objective of this study was to determine therapeutic effects of DHA on psoriasis and its relapse as well as its underlying mechanisms. Methods: We established animal models of imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis-like wild-type mice and humanized NSG mice receiving lesional human skin from patients with psoriasis. Many immunoassays, including immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, quantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting, were performed. Results: We found that DHA not only ameliorated acute skin lesion of psoriatic mice, but also alleviated its recurrence by diminishing CD8+ central memory T (TCM) and CD8+ resident memory T (TRM) cells. It attenuated epidermal pathology and T-cell infiltration in the skin of IMQ-induced psoriatic mice while suppressing expression of IL-15, IL-17 and other proinflammatory cytokines in the skin. Surprisingly, DHA reduced the frequency and number of CD8+, but not CD4+, subset of CD44highCD62Lhigh TCM in psoriatic mice, whereas methotrexate (MTX) lowered CD4+, but not CD8+, TCM frequency and number. Indeed, DHA, but not MTX, downregulated eomesodermin (EOMES) and BCL-6 expression in CD8+ T-cells. Furthermore, DHA, but not MTX, reduced the presence of CD8+CLA+, CD8+CD69+ or CD8+CD103+ TRM cells in mouse skin. Interestingly, treatment with DHA, but not MTX, during the first onset of psoriasis largely prevented psoriasis relapse induced by low doses of IMQ two weeks later. Administration of recombinant IL-15 or CD8+, but not CD4+, TCM cells resulted in complete recurrence of psoriasis in mice previously treated with DHA. Finally, we demonstrated that DHA alleviated psoriatic human skin lesions in humanized NSG mice grafted with lesional skin from psoriatic patients while reducing human CD8+ TCM and CD103+ TRM cells in humanized mice. Conclusion: We have provided the first evidence that DHA is advantageous over MTX in preventing psoriasis relapse by reducing memory CD8+ T-cells.
CD49a+ tissue resident NK cells have been implicated in memory-like NK cell responses, but while this population is well-characterized in mice and in humans, they are poorly described in non-human primates (NHP) which are particularly critical for modeling human viral infections. Others and we have shown that memory-like NK cells are enriched in the liver and because of the importance of NHP in modeling HIV infection, understanding the immunobiology of CD49a+ NK cells in SIV-infected rhesus macaques is critical to explore the role of this cell type in retroviral infections. In this study mononuclear cells isolated from livers, spleens, and peripheral whole blood were analyzed in acutely and chronically lentivirus-infected and experimentally-naïve Indian rhesus macaques (RM). NK cells were then identified as CD45+CD14-CD20-CD3-NKG2A/C+ cells and characterized using multiparametric flow-cytometry. Our data show that in RM, CD49a+ NK cells increase in the liver following retroviral infections [median = 5.2% (naïve) vs. median = 9.48% (SIV+) or median = 16.8% (SHIV+)]. In contrast, there is little change in CD49a+ NK frequencies in whole blood or spleens of matched animals. In agreement with human and murine data we also observed that CD49a+ NK cells were predominantly Eomeslow T-betlow, though these frequencies are elevated in infected animal cohorts. Functionally, our data suggests that infection alters TNF-α, IFN-γ, and CD107a expression in stimulated CD49a+ NK cells. Specifically, our analyses found a decrease in CD49a+ CD107a+ TNFα+ IFNγ- NK cells, with a simultaneous increase in CD49a+ CD107a+ TNFα- IFNγ+ NK cells and the non-responsive CD49a+ CD107a- TNFα- IFNγ- NK cell population following infection, suggesting both pathogenic and inflammatory changes in the NK cell functional profile. Our data also identified significant global differences in polyfunctionality between CD49a+ NK cells in the naïve and chronic (SHIV+) cohorts. Our work provides the first characterization of CD49a+ NK cells in tissues from RM. The significant similarities between CD49a+ NK cells from RM and what is reported from human samples justifies the importance of studying CD49a+ NK cells in this species to support preclinical animal model research.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a complex and multifactorial autoimmune disorder with the involvement of multiple genetic and environmental factors. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified more than 50 RA genetic loci in European populations. Given the anticipated overlap of RA-relevant genes and pathways across different ethnic groups, we sought to replicate 58 GWAS-implicated SNPs reported in Europeans in Pakistani subjects. 1,959 unrelated subjects comprising 1,222 RA cases and 737 controls were collected from three rheumatology facilities in Pakistan. Genotyping was performed using iPLEX or TaqMan® methods. A total of 50 SNPs were included in the final association analysis after excluding those that failed assay design/run or postrun QC analysis. Fourteen SNPs (LINC00824/rs1516971, PADI4/rs2240336, CEP57/rs4409785, CTLA4/rs3087243, STAT4/rs13426947, HLA-B/MICA/rs2596565, C5orf30/rs26232, CCL21/rs951005, GATA3/rs2275806, VPS37C/rs595158, HLA-DRB1/rs660895, EOMES/rs3806624, SPRED2/rs934734, and RUNX1/rs9979383) were replicated in our Pakistani sample at false discovery rate (FDR) of <0.20 with nominal p values ranging from 4.73E-06 to 3.48E-02. Our results indicate that several RA susceptibility loci are shared between Pakistani and European populations, supporting the role of common genes/pathways.
BACKGROUND: KIR+NKG2A + Eomes+ CD8+ T cells, which are preferentially found with a TEMRA (CD45RA + CCR7-) phenotype while having the capacity to rapidly produce IFN-γ in response to innate stimulation (IL-12 and IL-18), have been demonstrated to exist in human cord blood and the adult blood circulation. This highly responsive T-cell type was termed NK-like CD8+ T cells due to their capability to act in an innate immune fashion in mice similar to NK cells. However, KIR+NKG2A + CD8+ T cells that are Eomes- represent a small proportion of unconventional T cells that have not been described until now.METHODS: We compare the distribution of the memory phenotypes and senescence-associated markers of two T-cell subsets by multicolor flow cytometry in 10 cord blood samples and 105 healthy individuals (HIs) ranging from 6 to 84 years of age.RESULTS: We found that the Eomes+ population has a higher differentiation degree than the Eomes- population. T cells in the Eomes- subset show proportionally less TEMRA phenotypes while instead preferentially displaying a more naïve and TCM phenotype. Furthermore, the Eomes- population was shown to linearly decrease with age, while the Eomes+ population exhibited more senescence-associated characteristics, such as CD57 expression and loss of CD28.CONCLUSION: Overall, the KIR+NKG2A + Eomes- CD8+ T-cell population shares similar characteristics with the Eomes+ population, although with a lower degree of differentiation, lower senescence marker expression, and a proportional decrease with age. Thus, we suspect that KIR+NKG2A + Eomes-CD8+ T cells may represent a less differentiated stage of the NK-like CD8+ T-cell subset.
Background and Aims: Hirschsprung's disease (HSCR) is a rare genetically heterogeneous congenital disorder. A recent study based on whole genome sequencing demonstrated that common variants at four novel loci, which contained two intronic variants on CASQ2 and PLD1, and intergenic variants located between SLC4A7 and EOMES at 3p24.1, and between LINC01518 and LOC283028 at 10q11.21, were associated with HSCR susceptibility. To validate these associations with HSCR susceptibility, we performed a case-control study in a Han Chinese sample set. Methods: We selected four previously identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for replication, along with tag SNPs to cover the four associated regions. In total, 61 SNPs were genotyped in 420 HSCR patients and 1,665 healthy controls from the Han Chinese population. Results: None of the 14 tag SNPs in the CASQ2 gene region, including the previously associated rs9428225, showed an association with HSCR. Among the 24 tag SNPs from the SLC4A7-EOMES region at 3p24.1, rs2642925 [odds ratio (OR) = 1.41, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) = 1.10-1.79; P Additive = 0.007] and the previously associated SNP rs9851320 showed a suggestive association (OR = 1.22, 95% CI = 1.01-1.47; P Additive = 0.042). A non-synonymous SNP, rs2287579, in PLD1 showed a suggestive association with HSCR susceptibility (OR = 1.71, 95% CI = 1.18-2.46; P Additive = 0.004). Additionally, the previously associated PLD1 SNP rs12632766 showed a suggestive significance (OR = 1.20, 95% CI = 1.01-1.42, P Additive = 0.038). In the LINC01518-LOC283028 region at 10q11.21, three SNPs meet the study-wide significance threshold. Rs17153309 was the most associated SNP (OR = 1.60, 95% CI = 1.34-1.90; P Additive = 1.13 × 10-7). The previously associated SNP rs1414027 also showed significant association (OR = 1.43, 95% CI = 1.20-1.70, P Additive = 3.92 × 10-5). Two associated SNPs at 10q11.21 (rs1414027 and rs624804) were expression quantitative trait loci in digestive tract tissues from GTEx databases. Conclusions: Our results confirmed that variants of the LINC01518-LOC283028 region were associated with HSCR in the Han Chinese population. Additionally, the susceptibility of SNPs in the LINC01518-LOC283028 region were associated with the expression levels of nearby genes. These results provide new insight into the pathogenesis of HSCR.
HLA-B*35Px is associated with HIV-1 disease rapid progression to AIDS. However, the mechanism(s) underlying this deleterious effect of this HLA allele on HIV-1 infection outcome has not fully understood. CD8+ T cells play a crucial role to control the viral replication but impaired CD8+ T cells represent a major hallmark of HIV-1 infection. Here, we examined the effector functions of CD8+ T cells restricted by HLA-B*35Px (HLA-B*35:03 and HLA-B*35:02), HLA-B*27/B57 and non-HLA-B*27/B57 (e.g. HLA-A*01, A*02, A*03, A*11, A*24, A*26, B*40, B*08, B*38, B*44). CD8+ T cells restricted by HLA-B*35Px exhibited an impaired phenotype compared with those restricted by HLA-B*27/B57 and even non-HLA-B*27/B57. CD8+ T cells restricted by non-HLA-B*27/B57 when encountered their cognate epitopes upregulated TIM-3 and thus became suppressed by regulatory T cells (Tregs) via TIM-3: Galectin-9 (Gal-9). Strikingly, CD8+ T cells restricted by HLA-B*35Px expressed fewer TIM-3 and therefore did not get suppressed by Tregs, which was similar to CD8+ T cells restricted by HLA-B*27/B57. Instead, CD8+ T cells restricted by HLA-B*35Px upon recognition of their cognate epitopes upregulated CTLA-4. The transcriptional and impaired phenotype (e.g. poor effector functions) of HIV-specific CD8+ T cells restricted by HLA-B*35 was related to persistent CTLA-4, elevated Eomes and blimp-1 but poor T-bet expression. As such, anti-CTLA-4 antibody, Ipilimumab, reversed the impaired proliferative capacity of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells restricted by HLA-B*35Px but not others. This study supports the concept that CD8+ T resistance to Tregs-mediated suppression is related to allele restriction rather than the epitope specificity. Our results aid to explain a novel mechanism for the inability of HIV-specific CD8+ T cells restricted by HLA-B*35Px to control viral replication.
NK1.1+ cells found in salivary glands (SG) represent a unique cell population of innate lymphoid cells (ILC) with characteristics of both conventional NK cells and ILC1. Here, we demonstrate that these NK1.1+  cells limit the accumulation and differentiation of virus-specific tissue-resident memory CD8+ T cells (TRM  cells) in SG of mice infected with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). The negative regulation of LCMV-specific CD8+ TRM  cells by NK1.1+  cells in SG is independent of NKG2D, NKp46, TRAIL, and perforin. Moreover, analysis of NKp46iCre+ Eomesfl/fl mice revealed that Eomes-dependent conventional NK cells are dispensable for negative regulation. Since the SG are prone to autoimmune reactions, regulation of TRM  cells by tissue-resident ILC may be particularly important to prevent immunopathology in this organ.
After being described in the 1970s as cytotoxic cells that do not require MHC-dependent pre-activation, natural killer (NK) cells remained the sole member of innate lymphocytes for decades until lymphoid tissue-inducer cells in the 1990s and helper-like innate lymphoid lineages from 2008 onward completed the picture of innate lymphoid cell (ILC) diversity. Since some of the ILC members, such as ILC1s and CCR6- ILC3s, share specific markers previously used to identify NK cells, these findings provoked the question of how to delineate the development of NK cell and helper-like ILCs and how to properly identify and genetically interfere with NK cells. The description of eomesodermin (EOMES) as a lineage-specifying transcription factor of NK cells provided a candidate that may serve as a selective marker for the genetic targeting and identification of NK cells. Unlike helper-like ILCs, NK cell activation is, to a large degree, regulated by the engagement of activating and inhibitory surface receptors. NK cell research has revealed some elegant mechanisms of immunosurveillance, coined "missing-self" and "induced-self" recognition, thus complementing "non-self recognition", which is predominantly utilized by adaptive lymphocytes and myeloid cells. Notably, the balance of activating and inhibitory signals perceived by surface receptors can be therapeutically harnessed for anti-tumor immunity mediated by NK cells. This review aims to summarize the similarities and the differences in development, function, localization, and phenotype of NK cells and helper-like ILCs, with the purpose to highlight the unique feature of NK cell development and regulation.
Recent studies have attempted to uncover the role of Group 1 Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) in multiple physiological contexts, including cancer. However, the definition and precise contribution of Group 1 ILCs (constituting ILC1 and NK subsets) to metastasis is unclear due to the lack of well-defined cell markers. Here, we first identified ILC1 and NK cells in NSCLC patient blood and differentiated them based on the expression of transcription factors, T-bet and Eomes. Interestingly, Eomes downregulation in the peripheral blood NK cells of NSCLC patients positively correlated with disease progression. Additionally, we noted higher Eomes expression in NK cells (T-bet+Eomeshi) compared to ILC1s (T-bet+Eomeslo). We asked whether the decrease in Eomes was associated with the conversion of NK cells into ILC1 using Eomes as a reliable marker to differentiate ILC1s from NK cells. Utilizing a murine model of experimental metastasis, we observed an association between increase in metastasis and Eomes downregulation in NKp46+NK1.1+ Group 1 ILCs, which was consistent to that of human NSCLC samples. Further confirmation of this trend was achieved by flow cytometry, which identified tissue-specific Eomeslo ILC1-like and Eomeshi NK-like subsets in the murine metastatic lung based on cell surface markers and adoptive transfer experiments. Next, functional characterization of these cell subsets showed reduced cytotoxicity and IFNγ production in Eomeslo ILC1s compared to Eomeshi cells, suggesting that lower Eomes levels are associated with poor cancer immunosurveillance by Group 1 ILCs. These findings provide novel insights into the regulation of Group 1 ILC subsets during metastasis, through the use of Eomes as a reliable marker to differentiate between NK and ILC1s.
Lysine specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) is a key epigenetic eraser enzyme implicated in cancer metastases and recurrence. Nuclear LSD1 phosphorylated at serine 111 (nLSD1p) has been shown to be critical for the development of breast cancer stem cells. Here we show that circulating tumor cells isolated from immunotherapy-resistant metastatic melanoma patients express higher levels of nLSD1p compared to responders, which is associated with co-expression of stem-like, mesenchymal genes. Targeting nLSD1p with selective nLSD1 inhibitors better inhibits the stem-like mesenchymal signature than traditional FAD-specific LSD1 catalytic inhibitors such as GSK2879552. We also demonstrate that nLSD1p is enriched in PD-1+CD8+ T cells from resistant melanoma patients and 4T1 immunotherapy-resistant mice. Targeting the LSD1p nuclear axis induces IFN-γ/TNF-α-expressing CD8+ T cell infiltration into the tumors of 4T1 immunotherapy-resistant mice, which is further augmented by combined immunotherapy. Underpinning these observations, nLSD1p is regulated by the key T cell exhaustion transcription factor EOMES in dysfunctional CD8+ T cells. EOMES co-exists with nLSD1p in PD-1+CD8+ T cells in resistant patients, and nLSD1p regulates EOMES nuclear dynamics via demethylation/acetylation switching of critical EOMES residues. Using novel antibodies to target these post-translational modifications, we show that EOMES demethylation/acetylation is reciprocally expressed in resistant and responder patients. Overall, we show for the first time that dual inhibition of metastatic cancer cells and re-invigoration of the immune system requires LSD1 inhibitors that target the nLSD1p axis.
Erratum in    Immunol Lett. 2022 Jan;241:58-59.
Comment on    Nat Immunol. 2020 May;21(5):567-577.
Natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) that mediate antiviral and antitumor responses and require the transcriptional regulator Eomesodermin (Eomes) for early development. However, the role of Eomes and its molecular program in mature NK cell biology is unclear. To address this, we develop a tamoxifen-inducible, type-1-ILC-specific (Ncr1-targeted) cre mouse and combine this with Eomes-floxed mice. Eomes deletion after normal NK cell ontogeny results in a rapid loss of NK cells (but not ILC1s), with a particularly profound effect on penultimately mature stage III NK cells. Mechanisms responsible for stage III reduction include increased apoptosis and impaired maturation from stage II precursors. Induced Eomes deletion also decreases NK cell cytotoxicity and abrogates in vivo rejection of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-class-I-deficient cells. However, other NK cell functional responses, and stage IV NK cells, are largely preserved. These data indicate that mature NK cells have distinct Eomes-dependent and -independent stages.
BACKGROUND: Mesendodermal formation during early gastrulation requires the expression of lineage-specific genes, while the regulatory mechanisms during this process have not yet been fully illustrated. TATA box-binding protein (TBP) and TBP-like factors are general transcription factors responsible for the transcription initiation by recruiting the preinitiation complex to promoter regions. However, the role of TBP family members in the regulation of mesendodermal specification remains largely unknown.METHODS: We used an in vitro mesendodermal differentiation system of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), combining with the microarray and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis, loss of function and gain of function to determine the function of the TBP family member TBP-related factor 3 (TRF3) during mesendodermal differentiation of hESCs. The chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and biochemistry analysis were used to determine the binding of TRF3 to the promoter region of key mesendodermal genes.RESULTS: The mesendodermal differentiation of hESCs was confirmed by the microarray gene expression profile, qRT-PCR, and immunocytochemical staining. The expression of TRF3 mRNA was enhanced during mesendodermal differentiation of hESCs. The TRF3 deficiency did not affect the pluripotent marker expression, alkaline phosphatase activity, and cell cycle distribution of undifferentiated hESCs or the expression of early neuroectodermal genes during neuroectodermal differentiation. During the mesendodermal differentiation, the expression of pluripotency markers decreased in both wild-type and TRF3 knockout (TRF3-/-) cells, while the TRF3 deficiency crippled the expression of the mesendodermal markers. The reintroduction of TRF3 into the TRF3-/- hESCs rescued inhibited mesendodermal differentiation. Mechanistically, the TRF3 binding profile was significantly shifted to the mesendodermal specification during mesendodermal differentiation of hESCs based on the ChIP-seq data. Moreover, ChIP and ChIP-qPCR analysis showed that TRF3 was enriched at core promoter regions of mesendodermal developmental genes, EOMESODERMIN, BRACHYURY, mix paired-like homeobox, and GOOSECOID homeobox, during mesendodermal differentiation of hESCs.CONCLUSIONS: These results reveal that the TBP family member TRF3 is dispensable in the undifferentiated hESCs and the early neuroectodermal differentiation. However, it directs mesendodermal lineage commitment of hESCs via specifically promoting the transcription of key mesendodermal transcription factors. These findings provide new insights into the function and mechanisms of the TBP family member in hESC early lineage specification.
Researchers currently lack standardized porcine-specific markers that would aid in distinguishing the naïve and primed states of porcine embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Here, we converted naïve-like porcine ESCs (nESCs, established in our lab) into primed-state cells, and we proposed a set of molecular criteria for evaluating the naïve porcine ESCs by comparing the two cell states. The reverse-primed porcine ESCs (rpESCs) are phenotypically stable and karyotypically intact. Alkaline phosphatase positivity and the ability to form embryonic bodies suggest that rpESCs still retain the capacity for self-renewal. Lineage-associated genes, such as Cdx2, Sox17, Eomes, Foxa, Fgf5, and Pitx2, exhibited significant expression in rpESCs. Nonetheless, LIF/3i-grown porcine ESCs treated with the small molecular weight inhibitors CHIR99021, PD0325901, and SB431542 expressed the greatest number of pluripotency marker genes, including Oct4, Sox2, Nog, Dppa5, Nr0b1, and Klf4, and at higher levels than were observed in rpESCs. Despite their general trend toward higher expression of critical pluripotency factors, the nESCs showed downregulation of Tbx3, Nanog, and c-Myc, which are considered typical naïve factors in other species. Entry of the nESCs into the developmentally primed state was also associated with a marked reduction in Lin28 expression. These findings extend the knowledge of porcine pluripotency markers and provide a backdrop for future analysis of naïve porcine pluripotency.
CD8 T cells play a crucial role in immune responses to virus infections and tumors. Naïve CD8 T lymphocytes after TCR stimulation undergo differentiation into CTLs and memory cells, which are essential sources of IFN-γ. We investigated IFN-γ production by CD8 T cell subsets found in nonimmune mice. A minor fraction of in vitro TCR-stimulated CD8 T cells produce IFN-γ, and it is regulated at the transcriptional level. Antigen inexperienced C57BL/6 mice present the coexistence of 2 populations. The main population exhibits a CD44low CD122low profile, which is compatible with naïve lymphocytes. The minor expresses a phenotype of immunologic memory, CD44hi CD122hi . Both subsets are able to produce IL-2 in response to TCR activation, but only the memory-like population is responsible for IFN-γ production. Similar to memory CD8 T cells, CD44hi CD8+ T cells also present a higher level of the transcriptional factor Eomes and a lower level of T-bet (Tbx21) mRNA than CD44low CD8+ T cells. The presence of the CD44hi CD8+ T cell population in nonimmune OT-I transgenic mice reveals that the population is generated independently of antigenic stimulation. CpG methylation is an efficient epigenetic mechanism for gene silencing. DNA methylation at posttranscriptional CpG sites in the Ifng promoter is higher in CD44low CD8+ T cells than in CD44hi CD8+ T cells. Thus, memory-like CD8 T cells have a distinct epigenetic pattern in the Ifng promoter and can rapidly produce IFN-γ in response to TCR stimulation.
The in vivo proliferation and viability of transfused engineered T cells markedly limits the long-term effect of adoptive cell therapy on tumors. The therapeutic efficacy and proliferative potential of T cells are reported to be dependent on the differentiation status of T cells. The T cells at the early stage of progressive differentiation have a long lifespan, strong proliferative potential, and the ability to reconstruct intact T cell subsets. Thus, they are more suitable for adoptive immunotherapy. Previously, it was difficult to obtain a sufficient number of early differentiated T cells by inhibiting the progressive differentiation of T cells or by two-step programming. A more effective strategy is to directly reprogram and dedifferentiate the easily available terminal effector T (TEFF) cells, which are generated in large numbers, into early T cells. This study attempted to overexpress eight (candidate) early differentiation-specific transcription factors (TFs) (LEF1, KLF7, ID3, EOMES, BCL6, TCF7, FOXP1, and FOXO1) in the TEFF cells, which were activated by in vitro stimulation, to promote dedifferentiation into early T cells. In the mature TEFF cells simultaneously overexpressing these specific TFs, the expression pattern of T cell differentiation markers (CCR7 and CD45RO) exhibited a tendency to change to the pattern observed during early differentiation. The transcriptome analysis revealed that the function of differentially expressed genes was mainly concentrated in the cell cycle, growth and development, and effector function. Moreover, many genes related to early differentiated T cells (such as BCL2 and PIM1) were significantly upregulated, while those related to the effector function of TEFF cells were significantly downregulated (such as GZMB, PRF1, and GNLY). Additionally, the TEFF cells overexpressing characteristic TFs exhibited enhanced anti-apoptotic capabilities and decreased secretion of cytokines (IFN-γ and TNF-α). Based on these results, we believe that the TEFF cells were reprogrammed into a less differentiated state after overexpression of the eight specific TFs.
How the measurement of aging biomarkers in peripheral blood T-lymphocytes (PBTLs) is influenced by cell composition is unclear. Here, we collected peripheral blood and isolated CD3+ PBTLs from 117 healthy couples between the ages of 21 and 72. Each sample was profiled for Horvath epigenetic clock (DNAm), p16INK4a expression, cytomegalovirus (CMV) seropositivity and 74 mRNA markers of PBTL subtype, differentiation, immune checkpoints, and cytokine production. Correlations between individual aging biomarkers (DNAm or p16INK4a) and PBTL mRNAs were corrected for chronological age, sex, and couple. DNAm measurements correlated with CMV seropositivity as well as PBTL mRNAs indicative of effector function (CD8A, EOMES, TBX21, GZMB), poor proliferative capacity (KLRG1, CD57), differentiation (CD45RO, CD45RA), and immune checkpoints (PDCD1, TIGIT, LAG3, CD160, CD244). In contrast, only three PBTL mRNAs, CD28, CD244, and p14ARF, showed a significant association with p16INK4a. p16INK4a expression also showed a weaker association with immunosenescent PBTL subsets than DNAm in flow cytometry analyses. These data suggest that PBTL composition has a greater influence on DNAm than p16INK4a and link accelerated epigenetic aging to immunosenescent phenotypes.
Alopecia areata (AA) is a common alopecia characterized by non-scarring hair loss with the dysregulated immunity. However, the pathogenesis of AA remains to be elucidated. In this study, we identified gene signatures and then analyzed transcription factor-immune regulatory network in AA using integrated bioinformatics methods. Finally, we verified potential target genes in lesions of AA patients using qPCR and immunohistochemistry. Here, 74 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in AA, which were enriched in immune-related signaling pathway. The immune analysis revealed the infiltration of γδT cells and Macrophages M1 in AA lesion. Next, the expression correlation analysis and ChIP-seq results revealed a transcription factor (EOMEs) regulated network. We found that EOMEs, a T-box transcription factor, may be involved in the immunoregulation in AA via targeting CD8A and BMP2, and it may affect keratinocytes function via regulating GZMK, LYPD6, RNF182, KRTAP5-9 and KRT73 expression. Finally, the mRNA expression of these network genes in AA lesions was confirmed using qPCR. And the increase expression of EOMEs was identified at inflammatory cells at the periphery of hair follicles and partial keratinocytes in AA tissue using immunohistochemistry. In conclusions, our research demonstrated that EOMEs may play a key role in the progression of AA via regulating immune cell infiltration and keratinocytes function, indicating EOMEs as a promising therapeutic target of AA.
While the relationship of protective human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I alleles and HIV progression is well defined, the interaction of HLA-mediated protection and CD8 T-cell exhaustion is less well characterized. To gain insight into the influence of HLA-B*57:01 on the deterioration of CD8 T-cell responses during HIV infection in the absence of antiretroviral treatment, we compared HLA-B*57:01-restricted HIV-specific CD8 T-cell responses to responses restricted by other HLA class I alleles longitudinally after control of peak viremia. Detailed characterization of polyfunctionality, differentiation phenotypes, transcription factor, and inhibitory receptor expression revealed progression of CD8 T-cell exhaustion over the course of the infection in both patient groups. However, early effects on the phenotype of the total CD8 T-cell population were apparent only in HLA-B*57-negative patients. The HLA-B*57:01-restricted, HIV epitope-specific CD8 T-cell responses showed beneficial functional patterns and significantly lower frequencies of inhibitory receptor expression, i.e., PD-1 and coexpression of PD-1 and TIGIT, within the first year of infection. Coexpression of PD-1 and TIGIT was correlated with clinical markers of disease progression and declining percentages of the T-bethi Eomesdim CD8 T-cell population. In accordance with clinical and immunological deterioration in the HLA-B*57:01 group, the difference in PD-1 and TIGIT receptor expression did not persist to later stages of the disease.IMPORTANCE Given the synergistic nature of TIGIT and PD-1, the coexpression of those inhibitory receptors should be considered when evaluating T-cell pathogenesis, developing immunomodulatory therapies or vaccines for HIV, and when using immunotherapy or vaccination for other causes in HIV-infected patients. HIV-mediated T-cell exhaustion influences the patient´s disease progression, immune system and subsequently non-AIDS complications, and efficacy of vaccinations against other pathogens. Consequently, the possibilities of interfering with exhaustion are numerous. Expanding the use of immunomodulatory therapies to include HIV treatment depends on information about possible targets and their role in the deterioration of the immune system. Furthermore, the rise of immunotherapies against cancer and elevated cancer incidence in HIV-infected patients together increase the need for detailed knowledge of T-cell exhaustion and possible interactions. A broader approach to counteract immune exhaustion to alleviate complications and improve efficacy of other vaccines also promises to increase patients' health and quality of life.
Natural killer cells are lymphocytes that respond rapidly to intracellular pathogens or cancer/stressed cells by producing pro-inflammatory cytokines or chemokines and by killing target cells through direct cytolysis. NK cells are distinct from B and T lymphocytes in that they become activated through a series of broadly expressed germ line encoded activating and inhibitory receptors or through the actions of inflammatory cytokines. They are the founding member of the innate lymphoid cell family, which mirror the functions of T lymphocytes, with NK cells being the innate counterpart to CD8 T lymphocytes. Despite the functional relationship between NK cells and CD8 T cells, the mechanisms controlling their specification, differentiation and maturation are distinct, with NK cells emerging from multipotent lymphoid progenitors in the bone marrow under the control of a unique transcriptional program. Over the past few years, substantial progress has been made in understanding the developmental pathways and the factors involved in generating mature and functional NK cells. NK cells have immense therapeutic potential and understanding how to acquire large numbers of functional cells and how to endow them with potent activity to control hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic malignancies and autoimmunity is a major clinical goal. In this review, we examine basic aspects of conventional NK cell development in mice and humans and discuss multiple transcription factors that are known to guide the development of these cells.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2020 May;21(5):499-500.    Trends Immunol. 2020 Jul;41(7):556-558.
Erratum in    Dev Growth Differ. 2020 Oct;62(7-8):503.
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) is a painful and fatal disease that undoubtedly remains a health care priority and offers significant therapeutic challenges. The significance of epigenetic modifications, including DNA methylation in tumor development, has gained the attention of researchers. Identifying DNA methylation-driven genes and investigating the mechanisms underlying the tumorigenesis of PAAD are of substantial importance for developing methods of physiological evaluation, treatment planning and prognostic prediction for PAAD. In the present study, a comprehensive analysis of DNA methylation and gene expression data from 188 clinical samples was performed to identify DNA methylation-driven genes in PAAD. In addition, the diagnostic and prognostic value of DNA methylation-driven genes was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curve, survival and recurrence analyses. A total of 7 DNA methylation-driven genes, namely zinc finger protein 208 (ZNF208), eomesodermin (EOMES), prostaglandin D2 receptor (PTGDR), chromosome 12 open reading frame 42 (C12orf42), integrin subunit α 4 (ITGA4), dedicator of cytokinesis 8 and protein phosphatase 1 regulatory inhibitor subunit 14D (PPP1R14D), were identified. All of them may be used to diagnose PAAD with excellent specificity and sensitivity (area under curve, >0.8). Of the 7 DNA methylation-driven genes, 6 were significantly associated with overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) P<0.05). Among them, ZNF208, EOMES, PTGDR, C12orf42 and ITGA4 were significantly negatively associated with the OS rate and positively associated with the recurrence rate, while PPP1R14D was significantly positively associated with the OS rate and negatively associated with the recurrence rate. The present study provides novel insight into the epigenetic alterations associated with the occurrence and progression of PAAD, thereby increasing the mechanistic understanding of this disease, offering potential novel molecular biomarkers and contributing to the development of therapeutic targets for PAAD.
While T cells play a critical role in protective immunity against infection, they are also responsible for graft rejection in the setting of transplantation. T cell differentiation is regulated by both intrinsic transcriptional pathways as well as extrinsic factors such as antigen encounter and the cytokine milieu. Herein, we review recent discoveries in the transcriptional regulation of T cell differentiation and their impact on the field of transplantation. Recent studies uncovering context-dependent differentiation programs that differ in the setting of infection or transplantation will also be discussed. Understanding the key transcriptional pathways that underlie T cell responses in transplantation has important clinical implications, including development of novel therapeutic agents to mitigate graft rejection.
Trophoblasts are the first cell type to be specified during embryogenesis, and they are essential for placental morphogenesis and function. Trophoblast stem (TS) cells are the progenitor cells for all trophoblast lineages; control of TS cell differentiation into distinct trophoblast subtypes is not well understood. Mice lacking the transcription factor OVO-like 2 (OVOL2) fail to produce a functioning placenta, and die around embryonic day 10.5, suggesting that OVOL2 may be critical for trophoblast development. Therefore, our objective was to determine the role of OVOL2 in mouse TS cell fate. We found that OVOL2 was highly expressed in mouse placenta and differentiating TS cells. Placentas and TS cells lacking OVOL2 showed poor trophoblast differentiation potential, including increased expression of stem-state associated genes (Eomes, Esrrb, Id2) and decreased levels of differentiation-associated transcripts (Gcm1, Tpbpa, Prl3b1, Syna). Ectopic OVOL2 expression in TS cells elicited precocious differentiation. OVOL2 bound proximate to the gene encoding inhibitor of differentiation 2 (ID2), a dominant negative helix-loop-helix protein, and directly repressed its activity. Overexpression of ID2 was sufficient to reinforce the TS cell stem state. Our findings reveal a critical role of OVOL2 as a regulator of TS cell differentiation and placental development, in-part by coordinating repression of ID2.
The hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) is a unique brain region maintaining neural stem cells (NCSs) and neurogenesis into adulthood. We used multiphoton imaging to visualize genetically defined progenitor subpopulations in live slices across key stages of mouse DG development, testing decades old static models of DG formation with molecular identification, genetic-lineage tracing, and mutant analyses. We found novel progenitor migrations, timings, dynamic cell-cell interactions, signaling activities, and routes underlie mosaic DG formation. Intermediate progenitors (IPs, Tbr2+) pioneered migrations, supporting and guiding later emigrating NSCs (Sox9+) through multiple transient zones prior to converging at the nascent outer adult niche in a dynamic settling process, generating all prenatal and postnatal granule neurons in defined spatiotemporal order. IPs (Dll1+) extensively targeted contacts to mitotic NSCs (Notch active), revealing a substrate for cell-cell contact support during migrations, a developmental feature maintained in adults. Mouse DG formation shares conserved features of human neocortical expansion.
Metformin has been studied for its anticancer effects by regulating T cell functions. However, the mechanisms through which metformin stimulates the differentiation of memory T cells remain unclear. We found that the frequencies of memory stem and central memory T cells increased for both in peripheral and tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells in metformin-treated lung cancer patients compared with those not taking the medication. An in vitro assay showed that metformin promoted the formation of memory CD8+ T cells and enhanced their antiapoptotic abilities. In addition, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation decreased microRNA-107 expression, thus enhancing Eomesodermin expression, which suppressed the transcription of PDCD1 in metformin-treated CD8+ T cells. In the CAR-T cell therapy model, metformin also exhibited cytotoxicity-promoting effects that led to decreased tumor growth. Metformin could reprogram the differentiation of CD8+ T cells, which may benefit the clinical therapy of cancer patients by facilitating long-lasting cytotoxic functions.
The development of changes in T cells, referred to as T cell exhaustion, has been suggested as a cause of primary or acquired resistance to immunotherapy by immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). A limited number of studies, largely performed on tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), has provided evidence in support of this hypothesis, but whether similar changes occur in circulating blood lymphocytes has received little attention. In the present study, a comprehensive analysis of peripheral blood leukocytes from 42 patients taken over the course of treatment with anti-PD-1 was undertaken. The patients included those grouped as responders (who did not progress), primary non-responders (primary resistance) and those with acquired resistance (who initially responded then subsequently progressed). Analysis included surface markers of exhaustion, production of cytokines following in vitro stimulation, and assessment of transcription factor levels associated with T cell exhaustion. There were differences in innate cell populations between responders and non-responders at baseline and maintained throughout therapy. Frequencies of total and classical CD14+CD16- monocytes were higher and the major subset of NK cells (CD16hiCD56+) was significantly smaller in the primary resistance group compared with responders. However, differences in peripheral blood expression of exhaustion markers were not evident between the treatment groups. T cell exhaustion markers were expressed in practically all patients and the major observation was an increase in CD39 on CD4 T cells during treatment. The results confirm the association of Eomes transcription factor with T cell exhaustion but levels of expression and the ratio with T-bet over Eomes did not differ between the patient groups. Thus, peripheral blood expression of T cell exhaustion markers does not distinguish between responders and non-responders to anti-PD-1 therapy. CD4 T cell expression of IFNγ also differed in pre-treatment samples, indicating that predictors of response unrelated to exhaustion may be present in peripheral blood. The association of response with innate cell populations and CD4 T cell responses requires further study.
We report significant upregulation of Galectin-9 (Gal-9) and VISTA on both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in HIV-infected human patients. Gal-9 and VISTA expression was associated with impaired T cells effector functions. Although Gal-9 was coexpressed with other coinhibitory receptors such as TIGIT, CD160, CD39, and VISTA, it was simultaneously coexpressed with PD-1. Coexpression of Gal-9 with PD-1 was associated with a more terminally exhausted T cell phenotype in HIV-1 patients. This was marked by higher expression of EOMES, blimp1, and Glut1 in Gal-9+ versus Gal-9- T cells, which is consistent with an exhausted T cell phenotype. Gal-9+ T cells exhibited the phenotype characteristics of effector T cells (CD45RA+, CD45RO-/lo, CD62L-, CD27lo) with higher T-bet expression. A positive correlation between the plasma viral load with the plasma Gal-9 levels in treatment-naive HIV patients and an inverse correlation between CD4 count with the frequency of CD4+Gal-9+ T cells were observed. Increased percentages of Gal-9+ T cells was evident in HIV-treated patients. Enhanced expression of Gal-9 on T cells following PMA stimulation via protein kinase C suggests persistent TCR stimulation as a potential contributing factor in Gal-9 upregulation in HIV patients. This was supported by the constant degranulation of Gal-9+ T cells. Moreover, CD44 clustering by Gal-9 may influence cytoskeleton rearrangement and coclustering of CD3, which likely impact initiation of signal transduction via TCR. Our preliminary data also confirm upregulation of Gal-9 on T cells in hepatitis B virus and HPV infections. These results demonstrate a novel role for Gal-9 and VISTA in HIV pathogenesis.
Tumor-infiltrating PD-1hi dysfunctional CD8+ T cells have been identified in several tumors but largely unexplored in breast cancer (BC). Here we aimed to extensively explore PD-1hiCD8+ T cells in BC, focusing on the triple-negative BC (TNBC) subtype. Flow cytometry was used to study the phenotypes and functions of CD8+ T-cell subsets in peripheral blood and surgical specimens from treatment-naive BC patients. RNA-seq expression data generated to dissect the molecular features of tumoral PD-1neg, PD-1lo and PD-1hi CD8+ T cells. Further, the associations between tumoral PD-1hi CD8+ T cells and the clinicopathological features of 503 BC patients were explored. Finally, multiplexed immunohistochemistry (mIHC) was performed to evaluate in situ PD-1hiCD8+ T cells on the tissue microarrays (TMAs, n=328) for prognostic assessment and stratification of TNBC patients. PD-1hiCD8+ T cells found readily detectable in tumor tissues but rarely in peripheral blood. These cells shared the phenotypic and molecular features with exhausted and tissue-resident memory T cells (TRM) with a skewed TCR repertoire involvement. Interestingly, PD-1hiCD8+ T cells are in the state of exhaustion characterized by higher T-BET and reduced EOMES expression. PD-1hiCD8+ T cells found preferentially enriched within solid tumors, but predominant stromal infiltration of PD-1hiCD8+ T subset was associated with improved survival in TNBC patients. Taken together, tumoral PD-1hiCD8+ T-cell subpopulation in BC is partially exhausted, and their abundance signifies 'hot' immune status with favorable outcomes. Reinvigorating this population may provide further therapeutic opportunities in TNBC patients.
The memory CD8 T-cell pool must select for clones that bind immunodominant epitopes with high affinity to efficiently counter reinfection. At the same time, it must retain a level of clonal diversity to allow recognition of pathogens with mutated epitopes. How the level of diversity within the memory pool is controlled is unclear, especially in the context of a selective drive for antigen affinity. We find that preservation of clones that bind the activating antigen with low affinity depends on expression of the transcription factor Eomes in the first days after antigen encounter. Eomes is induced at low activating signal strength and directly drives transcription of the prosurvival protein Bcl-2. At higher signal intensity, T-bet is induced which suppresses Bcl-2 and causes a relative survival advantage for cells of low affinity. Clones activated with high-affinity antigen form memory largely independent of Eomes and have a proliferative advantage over clones that bind the same antigen with low affinity. This causes high-affinity clones to prevail in the memory pool, despite their relative survival deficit. Genetic or therapeutic targeting of the Eomes/Bcl-2 axis reduces the clonal diversity of the memory pool, which diminishes its ability to respond to pathogens carrying mutations in immunodominant epitopes. Thus, we demonstrate on a molecular level how sufficient diversity of the memory pool is established in an environment of affinity-based selection.
BACKGROUND: In mammals, specification of primordial germ cells (PGCs) is established in the early post-implantation embryo. The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-SMAD and WNT3-β-catenin signaling initiate the gene regulatory network for PGC specification. The activation of SOX17-BLIMP1 axis is critical for human PGC program. Moreover, EpCAM and INTEGRINα6 were identified as surface markers of human PGC-like cells (PGCLCs) recently. However, the signaling mechanism for PGC specification in non-rodent mammals remains to be clarified.METHODS: We differentiated human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) into PGCLCs in vitro in response to Activin A and BMP4. The percentage of EpCAM/INTEGRINα6 double-positive cells (PGCLCs) was analyzed by flow cytometry. The expression of PGC genes was evaluated by qRT-PCR and immunofluorescence. The expression dynamic of multi-lineage genes during the differentiation process was evaluated by qRT-PCR.RESULTS: Under the stimulation for PGCLC induction, the embryoids derived from hiPSCs initiated significant upregulation of the early PGC genes (BLIMP1, TFAP2C, and NANOS3), but maintained low or no levels of DPPA3 and late PGC genes (DAZL and DDX4). The percentage of EpCAM/INTEGRINα6 double-positive PGCLCs reached the highest at day 6 of induction. After pre-induction, the incipient mesoderm-like cells (iMeLCs) upregulated most of the mesoderm genes (EOMES, T, MSXI, RUNX2, and MIXL1). The differentiating embryoids showed high levels of key pluripotency genes, OCT4 and NANOG, but became negative for SOX2. In contrast to iMeLCs, the differentiating embryoids downregulated mesoderm genes RUNX2 and EOMES, and ectoderm gene PAX6, but increased the expression of endoderm gene SOX17.CONCLUSIONS: During PGCLC induction process in vitro, the differentiating embryoids not only activated the PGC-related genes, but also displayed complex regulation of pluripotency genes and multi-lineage genes. These results would be meaningful for future research investigating the regulation of human early germ line development.
Immune checkpoint blockade represents a major breakthrough in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) therapy. However, success is limited to a subset of patients and there is a critical need to identify robust biomarkers associated with clinical response. In this study, we assessed whether pre-existing immunological characteristics, as well as immune parameters measured during treatment, might provide such clinical guidance. We studied blood samples collected at baseline and during treatment in a cohort of advanced NSCLC patients (n = 74) treated with nivolumab. Several lymphocyte subsets and biomarkers were then correlated with overall survival (OS) as well as clinical response, assessed using RECIST criteria. We found that patients characterized by longer OS had higher levels of CD3+, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells but lower levels of NK cells at baseline. Moreover, that they displayed a statistically significant lower expression of PD-1 on both CD3+ and CD8+ T cells (p = 0.013 and p = 0.033, respectively). The pre-treatment level of exhausted T cells (CD8+PD1+Eomes+) was significantly lower in patients with controlled disease (CD), defined as partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD), compared to those with progressive disease (PD) (p = 0.046). In CD patients, the frequency of exhausted CD8+ T cells further decreased during treatment cycles (p = <0.0001, p = 0.0032, and p = 0.0239, respectively). In conclusion, our results suggest that the distribution of lymphocyte subsets and expression of PD-1 on T cells before treatment may help predict the outcome of anti-PD-1 treatment in NSCLC patients. In addition, assessing the initial levels of exhausted T cells as well as their decrease upon treatment may also predict response and clinical outcome.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) were found to be developmentally related to natural killer (NK) cells. In humans, they are mostly located in "barrier" tissues where they contribute to innate defenses against different pathogens. ILCs are heterogeneous and characterized by a high degree of plasticity. ILC1s are Tbet+, produce interferon gamma and tumor necrosis factor alpha, but, unlike NK cells, are non-cytolytic and are Eomes independent. ILC2 (GATA-3+) secrete type-2 cytokines, while ILC3s secrete interleukin-22 and interleukin-17. The cytokine signatures of ILC subsets mirror those of corresponding helper T-cell subsets. The ILC role in defenses against pathogens is well-documented, while their involvement in tumor defenses is still controversial. Different ILCs have been detected in tumors. In general, the conflicting data reported in different tumors on the role of ILC may reflect the heterogeneity and/or differences in tumor microenvironment. The remarkable plasticity of ILCs suggests new therapeutic approaches to induce differentiation/switch toward ILC subsets more favorable in tumor control.
INTRODUCTION: The first lineage separation in mammalian development occurs when totipotent cells of the zygote give rise to the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm. The lineages are strictly separated by an epigenetic barrier. In vitro derivatives of these lineages embryonic stem cells (ESC) and trophoblast stem cells (TSC) are used to study the requirements needed to overcome the barrier in ESC to TSC conversion approaches.METHODS: Different combinations of TSC transcription factors were induced in ESC for three days. Cells were kept in TS medium with fetal bovine serum (FBS) or the chemically defined TX medium. Obtained cells were analysed for OCT4 levels, TSC surface marker levels, expression of TSC markers and methylation status of Elf5, Oct4 and Nanog promoters. Further, long-term culture stability and in vitro and in vivo differentiation was tested.RESULTS: Overexpression of Gata3, Eomes, Tfap2c, Ets2 and Cdx2 in ESC resulted in induction of TSC fate. Overexpression of Cdx2 or four factors (Gata3, Eomes, Tfap2c and Ets2) resulted in complete conversion only when cells were cultured in TX medium. The obtained induced TSC (iTSC) display characteristics of bona fide TSC in terms of marker expression and promoter methylation patterns. The generated converted cells were shown to display self-renewal and to be capable to differentiate into TSC derivatives in vitro and in vivo.CONCLUSION: Gata3, Eomes, Tfap2c, Ets2 and Cdx2 overexpression in ESC resulted in stable iTSC fate independent of culture conditions. For four factors or Cdx2 alone, TX medium is required for complete TSC conversion.
Dissecting epigenetic mechanisms controlling early cardiac differentiation will provide insights into heart regeneration and heart disease treatment. SWI/SNF complexes remodel nucleosomes to regulate gene expression and play a key role in organogenesis. Here, we reported a unique function of BAF250a in regulating the physical interaction of OCT4 and β-CATENIN during cardiac lineage differentiation from human ESCs. BAF250a deletion greatly reduced the physical interaction between OCT4 and β-CATENIN but did not alter the expression of β-CATENIN and OCT4 in the mesodermal progenitor cells. BAF250a ablation led to decreased recruitment of OCT4 and β-CATENIN at promoters of key mesodermal lineage genes, such as MESP1 and EOMES. Subsequently, the expression of lineage-specific genes was downregulated, whereas the expression of pluripotent genes was upregulated. In parallel, BAF250a ablation also altered recruitments of OCT4 and β-CATENIN to the promoter of CCND2 and CCND3, two key genes for S phase entry during cell cycle. Consequently, BAF250a deletion led to prolonged S phase in Mesp1+ cardiac progenitor cells, which in turn inhibited efficient differentiation of Mesp1+ to Isl1+ cells. Furthermore, BAF250a deletion abolished the interaction of OCT4 and BRG1 in mesoderm, suggesting that BAF250a is the key component in SWI/SNF complex that determines the interaction of Oct4/β-catenin in mesoderm. In contrast, we found that BAF250a did not regulate the OCT4/β-CATENIN interaction during neuroectoderm differentiation. Altogether, our results suggest that BAF250a specifically controls proper cardiac mesoderm differentiation by reorganizing the binding of OCT4/β-CATENIN and regulates both key lineage differentiation genes and cell cycle genes that coincided in response to WNT/β-CATENIN signal.
A successful pregnancy requires many physiological adaptations from the mother, including the establishment of tolerance toward the semiallogeneic fetus. Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) have arisen as important players in immune regulation and tissue homeostasis at mucosal and barrier surfaces. Dimensionality reduction and transcriptomic analysis revealed the presence of two novel CD56Bright decidual ILCs that express low T-bet and divergent Eomes levels. Transcriptional correlation with recently identified first trimester decidual dNKs suggests that these novel decidual ILCs might be present throughout pregnancy. Functional testing with permutation analysis revealed production of multiple factors by individual cells, with a preference for IFNγ and VEGF. Overall, our data suggests continuity of a unique decidual innate lymphocytes across pregnancy with a polyfunctional functional profile conducive for pregnancy.
The metabolism-controlled differentiation of αβ T cells has been well documented; however, the role of a metabolism program in γδ T cell differentiation and function has not been clarified. Here, using CD2-cre; mTORC1 Raptor-f/f, and mTORC2 Rictor-f/f mice (KO mice), we found that mTORC1, but not mTORC2, was required for the proliferation and survival of peripheral γδ T cells, especially Vγ4 γδ T cells. Moreover, mTORC1 was essential for both γδ T1 and γδ Τ17 differentiation, whereas mTORC2 was required for γδ T17, but not for γδ Τ1, differentiation. We further studied the underlying molecular mechanisms and found that depletion of mTORC1 resulted in the increased expression of SOCS1, which in turn suppressed the key transcription factor Eomes, consequentially reducing IFN-γ production. Whereas the reduced glycolysis resulted in impaired γδ Τ17 differentiation in Raptor KO γδ T cells. In contrast, mTORC2 potentiated γδ Τ17 induction by suppressing mitochondrial ROS (mitoROS) production. Consistent with their cytokine production profiles, the Raptor KO γδ T cells lost their anti-tumor function both in vitro and in vivo, whereas both Raptor and Rictor KO mice were resistant to imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis-like skin pathogenesis. In summary, we identified previously unknown functions of mTORC1 and mTORC2 in γδ T cell differentiation and clarified their divergent roles in mediating the activity of γδ T cells in tumors and autoimmunity.
Adoptive cellular therapy and its derivative, chimeric AgR T cell therapy, have achieved significant progress against cancer. Major barriers persist, however, including insufficient induction of cytotoxic T cells and exhaustion of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. In this study, we discovered a new role for 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2DG) in enhancing the antitumor activity of human T cells against NKG2D ligand-expressing tumor cells. Human T cells treated with 2DG upregulated the NK-specific transcription factors TOX2 and EOMES, thereby acquiring NK cell properties, including high levels of perforin/granzyme and increased sensitivity to IL-2. Notably, rather than inhibiting glycolysis, 2DG modified N-glycosylation, which augmented antitumor activity and cell surface retention of IL-2R of T cells. Moreover, 2DG treatment prevented T cells from binding to galectin-3, a potent tumor Ag associated with T cell anergy. Our results, therefore, suggest that modifying N-glycosylation of T cells with 2DG could improve the efficacy of T cell-based immunotherapies against cancer.
Trophoblast cells are the first committed lineage to emerge during mammalian preimplantation embryo development. Trophoblast stem (TS) cells can be derived from the trophectoderm (TE) of blastocyst-stage embryos and differentiate into extraembryonic trophoblast cells of the placenta. While mouse TS cells are an indispensable tool to study placental development, and reproductive diseases such as implantation failure and recurrent miscarriage, human TS cells have not been isolated. To model human trophoblast development and to investigate trophoblast-specific causes of reproductive diseases, it will be important to derive human induced trophoblast stem (iTS) cells. Recent studies have shown that fibroblasts can be reprogrammed to iTS cells by overexpressing four transcription factors (TFs) including TFAP2C, GATA3, EOMES, and ETS2. Here, we describe a protocol to directly convert mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) to iTS cells following overexpression of 10 TFs. iTS cells are capable of self-renewing using conventional TS cell culture media supplemented with the external signal FGF4 and heparin. iTS cells are also able to differentiate into trophoblast lineages.
Aiming to identify novel immunotargets for gastric cancer (GC), we retrospectively analyzed the formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) samples of gastric cancer tissues from postoperative patients who relapsed or metastasized within (early recurrence, n=25) or after two years (late recurrence, n=23). RNA immune-oncology panel (RIOP) including 398 immune-related genes was used to detect the RNA expression level. Disease free survival (DFS) time in early and late recurrent group was 7.52±0.72 and 28.49±0.81 months, respectively. 18 genes were significantly different between the early and late recurrent groups, and the expression of ITK, EBI3, CX3CL1, MYC, EOMES, CA4, TAGAP, MMP2, HAVCR2, FCGR1 and SNAI2 were verified to be associated with the DFS time. We also found that 18 genes were differentially expressed in diffusal type and non-diffusal type of GC. Leukocyte-inhibition, Leukocyte-migration, and Lymphocyte-infiltrate signal/functional pathways were activated in diffusal type of GC by cluster analysis. Our data uncovered the gene set consisted of ITK, EBI3, and CX3CL1 as a potential tool for prediction of early recurrence or poor prognosis in GC, which could be used as novel immunotargets and prognostic markers for the management of GC.
Comment in    Trends Immunol. 2020 Mar;41(3):187-189.
During embryogenesis, differentiation of pluripotent cells into somatic cell types depends both on signaling cues and intrinsic gene expression programs. While the molecular underpinnings of pluripotency are well mapped, much less is known on how mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) differentiate. Using RNA-Seq profiling during specification to the three germ layers, we showed that mESCs switched on condition-specific gene expression programs from the onset of the differentiation procedure and that primed pluripotency did not constitute an obligatory intermediate state. After inferring the gene network controlling mESC differentiation, we tested the role of the highly connected nodes by deleting them in a triple knock-in Sox1-Brachyury-Eomes mESC line reporting on ectoderm, mesoderm, and endoderm fates. This led to the identification of regulators of mESC differentiation that acted at several levels: Sp1 as a global break on differentiation, Nr5a2 controlling ectoderm specification, and notably Fos:Jun and Zfp354c as opposite switches between ectoderm and mesendoderm fate.
Erratum in    Nat Cell Biol. 2020 Jan;22(1):135.
BACKGROUND: CD8+ T cells differentiate into exhausted status within tumors, including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which constitutes a solid barrier to effective anti-tumor immunity. A detailed characterization of exhausted T cells and their prognostic value in HCC is lacking.METHODS: We collected fresh tumor tissues with adjacent non-tumor liver tissues and blood specimens of 56 HCC patients, as well as archived samples from two independent cohorts of HCC patients (n = 358 and n = 254), who underwent surgical resection. Flow cytometry and multiplex immunostaining were used to characterize CD8+ T cells. Patient prognosis was evaluated by Kaplan-Meier analysis and Cox regression analysis.RESULTS: CD8+ T cells were classified into three distinct subpopulations: PD1Hi, PD1Int and PD1-. PD1Hi CD8+ T cells were significantly enriched in tumor compared to adjacent non-tumor liver tissues. PD1Hi CD8+ T cells highly expressed exhaustion-related inhibitory receptors (TIM3, CTLA-4, etc.) and transcription factors (Eomes, BATF, etc.). In addition, PD1Hi CD8+ T cells expressed low levels of cytotoxic molecules and displayed a compromised capacity to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines while the expression of anti-inflammatory IL-10 was up-regulated following mitotic stimulation. Furthermore, PD1Hi CD8+ T cells shared features with tissue resident memory T cells and were also characterized in an aberrantly activated status with an apoptosis-prone potential. In two independent cohorts of HCC patients (n = 358 and n = 254), we demonstrated that PD1Hi or TIM3+PD1Hi CD8+ T cells were significantly correlated with poor prognosis, and the latter was positioned in close proximity to PD-L1+ tumor associated macrophages.CONCLUSION: The current study unveils the unique features of PD1Hi CD8+ exhausted T cells in HCC, and also suggests that exhausted T cells could act as a biomarker to select the most care-demanding patients for tailored therapies.
Initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) in early compared with chronic human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is associated with a smaller HIV reservoir. This longitudinal analysis of 60 individuals who began ART during primary HIV infection (PHI) investigates which pre- and posttherapy factors best predict HIV DNA levels (a correlate of reservoir size) after treatment initiation during PHI. The best predictor of HIV DNA at 1 year was pre-ART HIV DNA, which was in turn significantly associated with CD8 memory T-cell differentiation (effector memory, naive, and T-bet-Eomes- subsets), CD8 T-cell activation (CD38 expression) and T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3 (Tim-3) expression on memory T cells. No associations were found for any immunological variables after 1 year of ART. Levels of HIV DNA are determined around the time of ART initiation in individuals treated during PHI. CD8 T-cell activation and memory expansion are linked to HIV DNA levels, suggesting the importance of the initial host-viral interplay in eventual reservoir size.
Parasitic helminths cause significant damage as they migrate through host tissues to complete their life cycle. While chronic helminth infections are characterized by a well-described Type 2 immune response, the early, tissue-invasive stages are not well understood. Here we investigate the immune pathways activated during the early stages of Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri (Hpb), a natural parasitic roundworm of mice. In contrast to the Type 2 immune response present at later stages of infection, a robust Type 1 immune signature including IFNg production was dominant at the time of parasite invasion and granuloma formation. This early response was associated with an accumulation of activated Natural Killer (NK) cells, with no increase of other innate lymphoid cell populations. Parabiosis and confocal microscopy studies indicated that NK cells were recruited from circulation to the small intestine, where they surrounded parasitic larvae. NK cell recruitment required IFNγ receptor signaling, but was independent of CXCR3 expression. The depletion of tissue-infiltrating NK cells altered neither worm burden nor parasite fitness, but increased vascular injury, suggesting a role for NK cells in mediating tissue protection. Together, these data identify an unexpected role for NK cells in promoting disease tolerance during the invasive stage of an enteric helminth infection.
The oncogenic events involved in breast implant-associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma (BI-ALCL) remain elusive. To clarify this point, we have characterized the genomic landscape of 34 BI-ALCLs (15 tumor and 19 in situ subtypes) collected from 54 BI-ALCL patients diagnosed through the French Lymphopath network. Whole-exome sequencing (n = 22, with paired tumor/germline DNA) and/or targeted deep sequencing (n = 24) showed recurrent mutations of epigenetic modifiers in 74% of cases, involving notably KMT2C (26%), KMT2D (9%), CHD2 (15%), and CREBBP (15%). KMT2D and KMT2C mutations correlated with a loss of H3K4 mono- and trimethylation by immunohistochemistry. Twenty cases (59%) showed mutations in ≥1 member of the JAK/STAT pathway, including STAT3 (38%), JAK1 (18%), and STAT5B (3%), and in negative regulators, including SOCS3 (6%), SOCS1 (3%), and PTPN1 (3%). These mutations were more frequent in tumor-type samples than in situ samples (P = .038). All BI-ALCLs expressed pSTAT3, regardless of the mutational status of genes in the JAK/STAT pathway. Mutations in the EOMES gene (12%) involved in lymphocyte development, PI3K-AKT/mTOR (6%), and loss-of-function mutations in TP53 (12%) were also identified. Copy-number aberration (CNA) analysis identified recurrent alterations, including gains on chromosomes 2, 9p, 12p, and 21 and losses on 4q, 8p, 15, 16, and 20. Regions of CNA encompassed genes involved in the JAK/STAT pathway and epigenetic regulators. Our results show that the BI-ALCL genomic landscape is characterized by not only JAK/STAT activating mutations but also loss-of-function alterations of epigenetic modifiers.
CD8+ T cells play a central role in antitumour immunity, which often exhibit 'exhaustion' in the setting of malignancy and chronic viral infection due to T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 3 (TIM3) and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs). Our team previously found that overactive MDSCs and exhausted TIM3+ CD8+ T cells were observed in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) patients. However, it is not obvious whether MDSCs suppress CD8+ T cells through TIM3/Gal-9 pathway. Here, Gal-9, as the ligand of TIM3, was overexpressed in MDSCs. The levels of Gal-9 in bone marrow supernatants, serum and culture supernatants of MDSCs from MDS patients were elevated. CD8+ T cells from MDS or normal controls produced less perforin and granzyme B and exhibited increased early apoptosis after co-culture with MDSCs from MDS. Meanwhile, the cytokines produced by CD8+ T cells could be partially restored by TIM3/Gal-9 pathway inhibitors. Furthermore, CD8+ T cells produced less perforin and granzyme B after co-culture with excess exogenous Gal-9, and the function of CD8+ T cells was similarly restored by TIM3/Gal-9 pathway inhibitors. Expression of Notch1, EOMES (associated with perforin and granzyme B secretion), p-mTOR and p-AKT (associated with cell proliferation) was decreased in CD8+ T cells from MDS after co-culture with excess exogenous Gal-9. These suggested that MDSCs might be the donor of Gal-9, and TIM3/Gal-9 pathway might be involved in CD8+ T cells exhaustion in MDS, and that TIM3/Gal-9 pathway inhibitor might be the promising candidate for target therapy of MDS in the future.
Oral lichen planus (OLP) is an autoimmune inflammatory disease mediated by T cells, in whose pathogenesis CD4+ T helper cells are supposed to play vital roles. MiR-29b has recently been recognized as a crucial regulator in immune response and inflammation. The current research focuses on exploring how miR-29b functions in the immunopathogenesis of OLP. Our findings showed that miR-29b expression in CD4+ T cells was upregulated in OLP, especially in its erosive form. MiR-29b in CD4+ T cells repressed IFN-γ mRNA and IFN-γ secretion, but not T-bet and EOMES; in turn, IFN-γ increased the expression of STAT1 and miR-29b in CD4+ T cells. Moreover, miR-29b in CD4+ T cells suppressed DNMT1 expression and induced global DNA hypomethylation. In conclusion, elevated miR-29b interacts with IFN-γ via a regulatory feedback loop and induces global DNA hypomethylation in CD4+ T cells, which consequently modulates Type 1 T helper immune response, thus contributing to the immune dysregulation of OLP.
Natural killer (NK) cells are cells of the innate immunity and play an important role in the defense against viral infections and cancer, but also contribute to shaping adaptive immune responses. Long-lived tissue-resident NK cells have been described in man and mouse, particularly in the liver, contributing to the idea that the functional palette of NK cells may be broader than originally thought, and may include memory-like responses and maintaining tissue homeostasis. Remarkably, liver resident (lr)NK cells in man and mouse show substantial species-specific differences, in particular reverse expression patterns of the T-box transcription factors Eomesodermin (Eomes) and T-bet (EomeshighT-betlow in man and vice versa in mouse). In pig, compared to blood NK cells which are CD3-CD8αhigh cells, the porcine liver contains an abundant additional CD3-CD8αdim NK cell subpopulation. In the current study, we show that this porcine CD3-CD8αdim liver NK population is highly similar to its human lrNK counterpart and therefore different from mouse lrNK cells. Like human lrNK cells, this porcine NK cell population shows an EomeshighT-betlow expression pattern. In addition, like its human counterpart, the porcine liver NK population is CD49e- and CXCR6+. Furthermore, the porcine EomeshighT-betlow liver NK cell population is able to produce IFN-γ upon IL-2/12/18 stimulation but lacks the ability to kill K562 or pseudorabies virus-infected target cells, although limited degranulation could be observed upon incubation with K562 cells or upon CD16 crosslinking. All together, these results show that porcine EomeshighT-betlow NK cells in the liver strongly resemble human lrNK cells, and therefore indicate that the pig may represent a unique model to study the function of these lrNK cells in health and disease.
Erratum in    J Leukoc Biol. 2020 Aug;108(2):761.
During the Flint water crisis, the residents of Flint, Michigan experienced a significant increase in blood lead levels. For some this resulted in an increase as high as 40 μg/dL from 5 μg/dL, which is considered to be safe by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Since the extent of the effect of the lead exposure in early embryonic development is not greatly investigated, the aim of this study is to explore the effect of lead exposure at concentrations present in Flint, MI during the Flint water crisis in the embryonic development. The expression of pluripotency and self-renewal markers (Oct4, Sox2, Nanog and Zfp-42) coupled with morphological and alkaline phosphatase assays revealed that mouse embryonic stem cells (mESC) pluripotency and self-renewal capabilities are perturbed following exposure in a lead acetate concentration dependent manner. Moreover, mouse embryoid bodies (mEB), which provide ideal models for testing toxicity in vitro, revealed that lead acetate exposure induces fewer but larger mEBs, whereas gene expression analysis of lineage specific transcription factors showed an increased mRNA level of endodermal (Gata 4, Gata 6, Sox 7) and mesodermal markers (Eomes, Hand 1, Slug 1) while the mRNA level of ectodermal markers (Otx 2, Noggin, Sox 1) decreased. Taken all together, these results indicate that lead acetate disturbs the pluripotency of mESC and differentiation potential of mEBs by inhibiting differentiation towards ectodermal lineages and inducing it towards endodermal and mesodermal lineages.
Changes in transcriptional regulation through cis-regulatory elements are thought to drive brain evolution. However, how this impacts the identity of primate cortical neurons is still unresolved. Here, we show that primate-specific cis-regulatory sequences upstream of the Dbx1 gene promote human-like expression in the mouse embryonic cerebral cortex, and this imparts cell identity. Indeed, while Dbx1 is expressed in highly restricted cortical progenitors in the mouse ventral pallium, it is maintained in neurons in primates. Phenocopy of the primate-like Dbx1 expression in mouse cortical progenitors induces ectopic Cajal-Retzius and subplate (SP) neurons, which are transient populations playing crucial roles in cortical development. A conditional expression solely in neurons uncouples mitotic and postmitotic activities of Dbx1 and exclusively promotes a SP-like fate. Our results highlight how transcriptional changes of a single fate determinant in postmitotic cells may contribute to the expansion of neuronal diversity during cortical evolution.
Complications due to malaria are caused mostly by host immunological responses. Plasmodium falciparum subverts host immunity by various strategies, including modulation in the host immune responses by regulating cytokines. The transcriptional alterations of major cytokines and immunoregulators were analyzed in this study through gene expression profiling in clinically defined subgroups of P. falciparum patients. Malaria patients were included from Dhalai district hospital of Tripura with uncomplicated malaria (UC) and severe malaria (SM) and healthy controls from endemic and non-endemic areas of India. qPCR gene expression analysis was performed for all factors and they were grouped into three clusters based on their altered expressions. The first cluster was downregulated with an increased parasitic burden which included T-BET, GATA3, EOMES, TGF-β, STAT4, STAT6 and cytokines IFN-γ, IL-12, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13. RANTES, IL-8, CCR8, and CXCR3 were decreased in the SM group. The second cluster was upregulated with severity and included TNF-α, IL-10, IL-1β and IL-7. PD-1 and BCL6 were increased in the SM group. The third cluster comprised of NF-κB and was not altered. The level of perforin was suppressed while GrB expression was elevated in SM. P. falciparum malaria burden is characterized by the modulation of host immunity via compromization of T cell-mediated responses and suppression of innate immune-regulators.
Comment in    Immunity. 2019 Dec 17;51(6):970-972.
We previously identified five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at four susceptibility loci for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) in individuals of European ancestry through a large genome-wide association study (GWAS). To further elucidate genetic susceptibility to DLBCL, we sought to validate two loci at 3q13.33 and 3p24.1 that were suggestive in the original GWAS with additional genotyping. In the meta-analysis (5662 cases and 9237 controls) of the four original GWAS discovery scans and three replication studies, the 3q13.33 locus (rs9831894; minor allele frequency [MAF] = 0.40) was associated with DLBCL risk [odds ratio (OR) = 0.83, P = 3.62 × 10-13]. rs9831894 is in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with additional variants that are part of a super-enhancer that physically interacts with promoters of CD86 and ILDR1. In the meta-analysis (5510 cases and 12 817 controls) of the four GWAS discovery scans and four replication studies, the 3p24.1 locus (rs6773363; MAF = 0.45) was also associated with DLBCL risk (OR = 1.20, P = 2.31 × 10-12). This SNP is 29 426-bp upstream of the nearest gene EOMES and in LD with additional SNPs that are part of a highly lineage-specific and tumor-acquired super-enhancer that shows long-range interaction with AZI2 promoter. These loci provide additional evidence for the role of immune function in the etiology of DLBCL, the most common lymphoma subtype.
Endoderm gives rise to the gut tube in the early embryo. We differentiated human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to embryonic endoderm to identify a "tipping point" at which the developing system did not recover from perturbations caused by exposure to all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). Differentiating hiPSC-derived endoderm exposed to five concentrations of ATRA between 0.001 and 10 μM at 6 h, 96 h, or 192 h was assessed for forkhead box A2 (FOXA2) protein expression and global gene transcript expression. A tipping point of 17 ± 11 nM was identified where patterns of differentially expressed genes supported a developmental trajectory shift indicating a potential teratogenic outcome. This concentration is between women's endogenous ATRA blood plasma levels and teratogenic levels of circulating isotretinoin, an ATRA isomer used to treat acne. Taken together, these data suggest that this approach is a sensitive method to identify a point of departure for chemicals that impact early embryonic development.
Very virulent plus Marek's disease (MD) virus (vv + MDV) induces tumors in relatively resistant lines of chickens and early mortality in highly susceptible lines of chickens. The vv + MDV also triggers a series of cellular responses in both types of chickens. We challenged birds sampled from a highly inbred chicken line (line 63) that is relatively resistant to MD and from another inbred line (line 72) that is highly susceptible to MD with a vv + MDV. RNA-sequencing analysis was performed with samples extracted from spleen tissues taken at 10-day and 21-day post infection (dpi). A total of 64 and 106 differentially expressed genes was identified in response to the vv + MDV challenge at latent phase in the resistant and susceptible lines of chickens, respectively. Direct comparisons between samples of the two lines identified 90 and 126 differentially expressed genes for control and MDV challenged groups, respectively. The differentially expressed gene profiles illustrated that intensive defense responses were significantly induced by vv + MDV at 10 dpi and 21 dpi but with slight changes in the resistant line. In contrast, vv + MDV induced a measurable suppression of gene expression associated with host defense at 10 dpi but followed by an apparent activation of the defense response at 21 dpi in the susceptible line of chickens. The observed difference in gene expression between the two genetic lines of chickens in response to MDV challenge during the latent phase provided a piece of indirect evidence that time points for MDV reactivation differ between the genetic lines of chickens with different levels of genetic resistance to MD. Early MDV reactivation might be necessary and potent to host defense system readiness for damage control of tumorigenesis and disease progression, which consequently results in measurable differences in phenotypic characteristics including early mortality (8 to 20 dpi) and tumor incidence between the resistant and susceptible lines of chickens. Combining differential gene expression patterns with reported GO function terms and quantitative trait loci, a total of 27 top genes was selected as highly promising candidate genes for genetic resistance to MD. These genes are functionally involved with virus process (F13A1 and HSP90AB1), immunity (ABCB1LB, RGS5, C10ORF58, OSF-2, MMP7, CXCL12, GAL1, GAL2, GAL7, HVCN1, PDE4D, IL4I1, PARP9, EOMES, MPEG1, PDK4, CCLI10, K60 and FST), and tumor suppression (ADAMTS2, LXN, ARRDC3, WNT7A, CLDN1 and HPGD). It is anticipated that these findings will facilitate advancement in the fundamental understanding on mechanisms of genetic resistance to MD. In addition, such advancement may also provide insights on tumor virus-induced tumorigenesis in general and help the research community recognize MD study may serve as a good model for oncology study involving tumor viruses.
Quality of in vitro-produced embryos is influenced by changes in gene expression in response to adverse conditions. Gene markers for predicting 'good embryos' do not exist at present. We propose that the expression of pluripotency markers OCT4-SOX2-NANOG in D9 (day 9) bovine demi-embryos correlated with development at D13 (day 13). Day 8 in vitro-produced blastocysts were split in two cloned halves, one half (D9) was subjected to analysis of pluripotency markers and the other was kept in culture until D13 of development. Embryo development was scored and correlated with its own status at D9 and assigned to one of two categories: G1, arrested/dead; or G2, development up to D13. SOX2 and NANOG expression levels were significantly higher in embryos from G1 and there was also negative correlation between SOX2 and embryo survival to D13 (G3; r = -0.37; P = 0.03). We observed a significant reduction in the expression of the three studied genes from D9 to D13. Furthermore, there was a correlation between the expression of pluripotency markers at D9 and embryo diameter and the expression of trophoblastic markers at D13 (TP1-EOMES-FGF4-CDX2-TKDP1). Finally, the quotient between the relative expression of SOX2 and OCT4 in the D9 blastocysts from G1 and G2 showed that embryos that were considered as competent (G2) had a quotient close to one, while the other group had a quotient of 2.3 due to a higher expression of SOX2. These results might indicate that overexpression of SOX2 at the blastocyst stage had a negative effect on the control of embryonic developmental potential.
Induction of eomesodermin-positive CD4+ T cells (Eomes+ T helper [Th] cells) has recently been correlated with the transition from an acute stage to a later stage of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for multiple sclerosis. Moreover, these cells' pathogenic role has been experimentally proven in EAE. While exploring how the pathogenic Eomes+ Th cells are generated during the course of EAE, we unexpectedly found that B cells and MHC class II+ myeloid cells isolated from the late EAE lesions strikingly up-regulated the expression of prolactin (PRL). We demonstrate that such PRL-producing cells have a unique potential to induce Eomes+ Th cells from naïve T cells ex vivo, and that anti-MHC class II antibody could block this process. Furthermore, PRL levels in the cerebrospinal fluid were significantly increased in the late phase of EAE, and blocking the production of PRL by bromocriptine or Zbtb20-specific siRNA significantly reduced the numbers of Eomes+ Th cells in the central nervous system (CNS) and ameliorated clinical signs in the later phase of EAE. The PRL dependency of Eomes+ Th cells was confirmed in a series of in vitro and ex vivo experiments. Collectively, these results indicate that extrapituitary PRL plays a crucial role in the CNS inflammation mediated by pathogenic Eomes+ Th cells. Cellular interactions involving PRL-producing immune cells could be considered as a therapeutic target for the prevention of chronic neuroinflammation.
Trophoblast stem cells develop from polar trophectoderm and give rise to the cells that generate the placenta. Trophoblast cells are responsible for the uterine invasion and vascular remodeling during the implantation of the embryo. However this knowledge is not yet to be confirmed for trophoblast progenitor cells (TPCs). In this study, we aimed to demonstrate that human TPCs (hTPCs) express and release angiogenic factors for the first time. TPCs were isolated from the term placenta. Then immunophenotyping was performed by FACS method by analyzing caudal type homeobox 2 (CDX2) and eomesodermin (EOMES). Immunofluorescence staining of CDX2 and EOMES was performed on these cells. Lastly, angiogenesis-related proteins were detected by western blot and ELISA assays. The isolated cells were positive for trophoblast stem cell markers CDX2 and EOMES in 92.5% and 92.7% of cells, respectively showing the characteristics of TPCs. The investigation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 (VEGFR1), and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) at protein and mRNA level in comparison with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), revealed that human TPCs (hTPCs) have higher levels of VEGF and VEGFR1 transcripts. Additionally soluble forms of VEGF and VEGFR1 were detected in supernatants of hTPCs. With this information, TPCs seem to be promising for regenerative cell therapies by increasing angiogenesis.
Background & Aims: In hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), CD8+ T-cell responses targeting tumor-associated antigens (TAA) are considered to be beneficial. However, the molecular profile of TAA-specific CD8+ T cells in HCC is not well defined due to their low frequency. Results: In this study, we demonstrate that TAA-specific CD8+ T-cell responses are not efficiently induced in the peripheral blood of HCC patients as supported by the following observations: First, in HCC patients, frequencies of TAA-specific CD8+ T cells were not increased compared to healthy donors (HD) or patients with liver cirrhosis. Second, a remarkable proportion of TAA-specific CD8+ T cells were naïve despite the presence of antigen within the tumor tissue. Third, antigen-experienced TAA-specific CD8+ T cells lack the characteristic transcriptional regulation of exhausted CD8+ T cells, namely EomeshiTbetdim, and express inhibitory receptors only on a minor proportion of cells. This suggests restricted antigen recognition and further supports the hypothesis of inefficient induction and activation. Methods: By applying peptide/MHCI tetramer-based enrichment, a method of high sensitivity, we now could define the heterogeneity of circulating TAA-specific CD8+ T cells targeting glypican-3, NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A1 and MAGE-A3. We focused on therapy-naïve HCC patients of which the majority underwent transarterial chemoembolization (TACE). Conclusion: Our analysis reveals that circulating TAA-specific CD8+ T cells targeting 4 different immunodominant epitopes are not properly induced in therapy-naïve HCC patients thereby unravelling new and unexpected insights into TAA-specific CD8+ T-cell biology in HCC. This clearly highlights severe limitations of these potentially anti-tumoral T cells that may hamper their biological and clinical relevance in HCC.
Cerebral cortex expansion is a hallmark of mammalian brain evolution; yet, how increased neurogenesis is coordinated with structural and functional development remains largely unclear. The T-box protein TBR2/EOMES is preferentially enriched in intermediate progenitors and supports cortical neurogenesis expansion. Here we show that TBR2 regulates fine-scale spatial and circuit organization of excitatory neurons in addition to enhancing neurogenesis in the mouse cortex. TBR2 removal leads to a significant reduction in neuronal, but not glial, output of individual radial glial progenitors as revealed by mosaic analysis with double markers. Moreover, in the absence of TBR2, clonally related excitatory neurons become more laterally dispersed and their preferential synapse development is impaired. Interestingly, TBR2 directly regulates the expression of Protocadherin 19 (PCDH19), and simultaneous PCDH19 expression rescues neurogenesis and neuronal organization defects caused by TBR2 removal. Together, these results suggest that TBR2 coordinates neurogenesis expansion and precise microcircuit assembly via PCDH19 in the mammalian cortex.
Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs) have been shown to robustly expand during infection; however, their roles in anti-infectious immunity remain unclear. Here, we found that moDCs were dramatically increased in the secondary lymphoid organs during acute LCMV infection in an interferon-γ (IFN-γ)-dependent manner. We also found that priming by moDCs enhanced the differentiation of memory CD8+ T cells compared to differentiation primed by conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) through upregulation of Eomesodermin (Eomes) and T cell factor-1 (TCF-1) expression in CD8+ T cells. Consequently, impaired memory formation of CD8+ T cells in mice that had reduced numbers of moDCs led to defective clearance of pathogens upon rechallenge. Mechanistically, attenuated interleukin-2 (IL-2) signaling in CD8+ T cells primed by moDCs was responsible for the enhanced memory programming of CD8+ T cells. Therefore, our findings unveil a specialization of the antigen-presenting cell subsets in the fate determination of CD8+ T cells during infection and pave the way for the development of a novel therapeutic intervention on infection.
Adoptive transfer of tumor-reactive T cells (ACT) has led to modest clinical benefit in the treatment of solid tumors. Failures with this therapy are primarily due to inadequate infiltration and poor function of adoptively transferred cells in the tumor microenvironment. To improve the efficacy of ACT, we combined ACT with dual blockade of CTLA-4 and PD-1. Treatment with anti-CTLA-4 plus anti-PD-1 compared with monotherapy resulted in durable antitumor responses, enhanced effector function of ACT, utilizing PMEL-1 transgenic (Tg+) CD8+ T cells, and improved survival. Using PMEL-1ICOS-/- mice, we showed that deletion of the inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS) receptor abolished the therapeutic benefits, with selective downregulation of Eomesodermin (Eomes), interferon gamma (IFNγ), and perforin. Higher expression of IFNγ and Eomes was noted in human ICOShi CD8+ T cells compared with ICOSlow counterparts. Together, our data provide direct evidence that ACT combined with immune-checkpoint therapy confers durable antitumor responses, which largely depended on CD8+ T-cell-intrinsic expression of ICOS. Our study provides a foundation of testing combinatorial therapy of ACT of CD8 T cells and dual blocking of CTLA-4 and PD-1 in patients with melanoma.
Cytolytic CD4+ T cells play a prominent role in chronic viral infection. CD4+ CTLs clones specific for HIV-1 Nef and Gag are capable of killing HIV-1 infected CD4+ T cells and macrophages. Additionally, HIV-specific cytolytic CD4+ T cell responses in acute HIV infection are predictive of disease progression. CD57 expression on CD4s identifies cytolytic cells. These cells were dramatically increased in chronic HIV infection. CD57 expression correlated with cytolytic granules, granzyme B and perforin expression. They express lower CCR5 compared to CD57- cells, have less HIV total DNA, and were a minor component of the HIV reservoir. A small percentage of CD57+ CD4+ CTLs from EC were HIV-specific, could upregulate IFNγ with Gag peptide stimulation, express cytolytic granule markers and maintain TbethighEomes+ transcription factor phenotype. This was not observed in viraemic controllers. The maintenance of HIV-specific CD4 cytolytic function in Elite controllers together with CD8 CTLs may be important for the control of HIV viraemia and of potential relevance to cure strategies.
Given the growing interest and promising preliminary results of immunotherapy in malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM), it has become important to more fully understand the immune landscape in this tumor. This may be especially relevant in deciding who might benefit most from checkpoint blockade or agonist antibody therapy. Since the phenotype of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in MPM has not been fully described and their function has not been carefully assessed, we collected fresh tumor and blood from 22 patients undergoing surgical resection and analysed single cell suspensions by flow cytometry. The functionality of TILs was assessed by measurement of cytokine expression (IFN-γ) following overnight stimulation ex vivo. Results showed low numbers of CD8+ TILs whose function was either moderately or severely suppressed. The degree of TIL hypofunction did not correlate with the presence of co-existing macrophages or neutrophils, nor with expression of the inhibitory receptors PD-1, CD39 and CTLA-4. Hypofunction was associated with higher numbers of CD4 regulatory T cells (Tregs) and with expression of the inhibitory receptor TIGIT. On the other hand, presence of tissue-resident memory (Trm) cells and expression of TIM-3 on CD8+ cells were positively associated with cytokine production. However, Trm function was partially suppressed when the transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) was co-expressed. Understanding the function of TILs in malignant mesothelioma may have clinical implications for immunotherapy, especially in choosing the best immunotherapy targets. Our data suggests that Treg cell blocking agents or TIGIT inhibitor antibodies might be especially valuable in these patients.
Innate lymphoid cells play an important role in the early effector cytokine-mediated response. In Wistar Kyoto rats, CD8+ non-T lymphocytes (CD8+Lym) infiltrate into glomeruli during the development of anti-glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) glomerulonephritis. Here, we examined the profiles and roles of CD8+Lym in anti-GBM glomerulonephritis. The regulation of CD8+Lym by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-α in anti-GBM glomerulonephritis was also evaluated. Glomerular infiltrating CD8+Lym were lineage-negative cells that showed markedly high expression of IFN-γ and T-bet mRNAs but not Eomes, indicating these cells are group 1 innate lymphoid cells. In anti-GBM glomerulonephritis, the glomerular mRNAs of innate lymphoid cell-related cytokines (IFN-γ and TNF-α) and chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11) are significantly increased. Treatment with a PPARα agonist ameliorated renal injury, with reduced expression of these mRNAs. In vitro, enhanced IFN-γ production from innate lymphoid cells upon IL-12 and IL-18 stimulation was reduced by the PPARα agonist. Moreover, CXCL9 mRNA in glomerular endothelial cells and CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11 mRNAs in podocytes and macrophages were upregulated by IFN-γ, whereas the PPARα agonist downregulated their expression. We also detected the infiltration of innate lymphoid cells into glomeruli in human anti-GBM glomerulonephritis. Thus, innate lymphoid cells are involved in the progression of anti-GBM glomerulonephritis and regulated directly or indirectly by PPARα. Our findings suggest that innate lymphoid cells could serve as novel therapeutic targets for anti-GBM glomerulonephritis.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) were originally classified based on their cytokine profiles, placing natural killer (NK) cells and ILC1s together, but recent studies support their separation into different lineages at steady-state. However, tumors may induce NK cell conversion into ILC1-like cells that are limited to the tumor microenvironment and whether this conversion occurs beyond this environment remains unknown. Here, we describe Toxoplasma gondii infection converts NK cells into ILC1-like cells that are distinct from both steady-state NK cells and ILC1s in uninfected mice. These cells were Eomes-dependent, indicating that NK cells can give rise to Eomes- Tbet-dependent ILC1-like cells that circulate widely and persist independent of ongoing infection. Moreover, these changes appear permanent, as supported by epigenetic analyses. Thus, these studies markedly expand current concepts of NK cells, ILCs, and their potential conversion.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the immunophenotypes and gene expression profile of high proliferative placenta-derived multipotent cells (PDMCs) population at different stages of culture. We demonstrated that the colonies resulting from single cells were either positive or negative for CK7, whereas only PDMC clones with weak CK7 expression (CK7low-clones) were highly proliferative. Interestingly, vimentin positive (Vim+) placental stromal mesenchymal cells did not express CK7 in situ, but double CK7+Vim+ cells detection in tissue explants and explants outgrowth indicated CK7 inducible expression in vitro. PCNA presence in CK7+Vim+ cells during placental explants culturing confirmed belonging of these cells to proliferative subpopulation. Transcription factors CDX2 and EOMES were expressed in both CK7low-clones and subset of stromal mesenchymal cells of first-trimester placental tissue in situ. Meanwhile, CK7low -clones and stromal mesenchymal cells of full-term placental tissue in situ expressed ERG heterogeneously. SPP1, COL2A1, and PPARG2 mesodermal-related genes expression by CK7low-clones additionally confirms their mesenchymal origin. Inherent stem cell-related gene expression (IFTM3, POU5F1, and VASA) in CK7low-clones might indicate their enrichment for progenitors. Finally, in CK7low-clones we observed expression of such trophoblast-associated genes as CGB types I and II, fusogenic ERVW-1, GCM1, and GATA3. Thus, our results indicate that PDMCs acquired the representative immunophenotype signature under culture conditions.
Equine arteritis virus (EAV) has the unique ability to establish long-term persistent infection in the reproductive tract of stallions and be sexually transmitted. Previous studies showed that long-term persistent infection is associated with a specific allele of the CXCL16 gene (CXCL16S) and that persistence is maintained despite the presence of local inflammatory and humoral and mucosal antibody responses. Here, we performed transcriptomic analysis of the ampullae, the primary site of EAV persistence in long-term EAV carrier stallions, to understand the molecular signatures of viral persistence. We demonstrated that the local CD8+ T lymphocyte response is predominantly orchestrated by the transcription factors eomesodermin (EOMES) and nuclear factor of activated T-cells cytoplasmic 2 (NFATC2), which is likely modulated by the upregulation of inhibitory receptors. Most importantly, EAV persistence is associated with an enhanced expression of CXCL16 and CXCR6 by infiltrating lymphocytes, providing evidence of the implication of this chemokine axis in the pathogenesis of persistent EAV infection in the stallion reproductive tract. Furthermore, we have established a link between the CXCL16 genotype and the gene expression profile in the ampullae of the stallion reproductive tract. Specifically, CXCL16 acts as a "hub" gene likely driving a specific transcriptional network. The findings herein are novel and strongly suggest that RNA viruses such as EAV could exploit the CXCL16/CXCR6 axis in order to modulate local inflammatory and immune responses in the male reproductive tract by inducing a dysfunctional CD8+ T lymphocyte response and unique lymphocyte homing in the reproductive tract.
Histone methyltransferases play a critical role in early human development, whereas their roles and precise mechanisms are less understood. SET and MYND domain-containing protein 2 (SMYD2) is a histone lysine methyltransferase induced during early differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), but little is known about its function in undifferentiated hESCs and in their early lineage fate decision as well as underlying mechanisms. Here, we explored the role of SMYD2 in the self-renewal and mesendodermal lineage commitment of hESCs. We demonstrated that the expression of SMYD2 was significantly enhanced during mesendodermal but not neuroectodermal differentiation of hESCs. SMYD2 knockout (SMYD2-/- ) did not affect self-renewal and early neuroectodermal differentiation of hESCs, whereas it blocked the mesendodermal lineage commitment. This phenotype was rescued by reintroduction of SMYD2 into the SMYD2-/- hESCs. Mechanistically, the bindings of SMYD2 at the promoter regions of critical mesendodermal transcription factor genes, namely, brachyury (T), eomesodermin (EOMES), mix paired-like homeobox (MIXL1), and goosecoid homeobox (GSC) were significantly enhanced during mesendodermal differentiation of SMYD2+/+ hESCs but totally suppressed in SMYD2-/- ones. Concomitantly, such a suppression was associated with the remarkable reduction of methylation at histone 3 lysine 4 and lysine 36 but not at histone 4 lysine 20 globally and specifically on the promoter regions of mesendodermal genes, namely, T, EOMES, MIXL1, and GSC. These results reveal that the histone methyltransferase SMYD2 is dispensable in the undifferentiated hESCs and the early neuroectodermal differentiation, but it promotes the mesendodermal differentiation of hESCs through the epigenetic control of critical genes to mesendodermal lineage commitment. Stem Cells 2019;37:1401-1415.
Memory CD8+ T cells have the ability to provide lifelong immunity against pathogens. Although memory features generally arise after challenge with a foreign antigen, naïve CD8 single positive (SP) thymocytes may acquire phenotypic and functional characteristics of memory cells in response to cytokines such as interleukin-4. This process is associated with the induction of the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (EOMES). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain ill-defined. Using epigenomic profiling, we show that these innate memory CD8SP cells acquire only a portion of the active enhancer repertoire of conventional memory cells. This reprograming is secondary to EOMES recruitment, mostly to RUNX3-bound enhancers. Furthermore, EOMES is found within chromatin-associated complexes containing BRG1 and promotes the recruitment of this chromatin remodelling factor. Also, the in vivo acquisition of EOMES-dependent program is BRG1-dependent. In conclusion, our results support a strong epigenetic basis for the EOMES-driven establishment of CD8+ T cell innate memory program.
The adult human liver hosts a complex repertoire of liver resident and transient natural killer (NK) cell populations with diverse phenotypes and functions. Liver resident NK cells are CD56bright NK cells defined by a unique expression profile of transcription factors and cell surface markers (EomeshiTbetloTIGIT+CD69+CXCR6+CD49e-). Despite extensive characterization of the phenotype of liver resident NK cells, it remains unclear how factors within the liver microenvironment induce and maintain this unique phenotype. In this study, we have explored the factors regulating the phenotype of liver resident NK cells. Isolation of healthy liver resident NK cells from donor liver perfusate and in vitro culture results in the gradual loss of the characteristic Tbetlo phenotype, with the cells increasing Tbet expression significantly at day 7. This phenotypic loss could be halted through the dose-dependent addition of liver conditioned media (LCM), generated from the ex vivo culture of liver biopsies from healthy organ donors. TGF-β, but not IL-10, replicated the Tbet suppressive effects of LCM in both liver resident and peripheral blood NK cells. Furthermore, blocking TGF-β receptor signaling using the inhibitor SB431542, reversed the effect of LCM treatment on liver resident NK cells, causing the loss of tissue resident Eomeshi Tbetlo phenotype. Our findings identify liver-derived TGF-β as an important component of the liver microenvironment, which acts to regulate and maintain the phenotype of liver resident NK cells.
Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a member of T-box transcription factor family and plays an important role in the regulation of a wide variety of developmental processes and immune response in animals. Here we report cloning and characterization of the full-length cDNA of Atlantic cod Eomes (GmEomes), which possesses a TBOX_3 domain similar to its counterpart in mammals. The regulated expression was observed in head kidney and spleen in response to live Vibrio anguillarum infection in vivo, and spleen leukocytes in vitro after PMA and poly I:C stimulation. Furthermore, we determined a 694 bp sequence, upstream of the transcriptional start site (TSS), to contain a number of sequence motifs that matched known transcription factor-binding sites. Activities of the presumptive regulatory gene were assessed by transfecting different 5'-deletion constructs in CHSE-214 cells. The results showed that the basal promoters and positive transcriptional regulator activities of GmEomes were dependent by sequences located from -694 to -376 bp upstream of TSS. Furthermore, we found that some Eomes binding sites were present in the 5'-flanking regions of the cod IFNγ gene predicted by bioinformatics. However, Co-transfection of eomesodermin overexpression plasmids with INFγ reporter vector into CHSE-214 cells determined that Atlantic cod eomesodermin played a minor role in activation of the INFγ promoter.
Cul4b-null (Cul4bΔ/Y) mice undergo growth arrest and degeneration during the early embryonic stages and die at E9.5. The pathogenic causes of this lethality remain incompletely characterized. However, it has been hypothesized that the loss of Cul4b function in extraembryonic tissues plays a key role. In this study, we investigated possible causes of death for Cul4b-null embryos, particularly in regard to the role of embryonic Cul4b. First, we show that the loss of embryonic Cul4b affects the growth of the inner cell mass in vitro and delays epiblast development during the gastrulation period at E6.5~E7.5 in vivo, as highlighted by the absence of the epiblastic transcription factor Brachyury from E6.5~E7.5. Additionally, at E7.5, strong and laterally expanded expression of Eomes and Fgf8 signaling was detected. Sectioning of these embryos showed disorganized primitive streak layer cells. Second, we observed that Mash2-expressing cells were present in the extraembryonic tissues of Cul4b-deficient embryos at E6.5 but were absent at E7.5. In addition, the loss of Cul4b resulted in decreased expression of cyclin proteins, which are required for the cell cycle transition from G1 to S. Taken together, these observations suggest that the embryonic expression of Cul4b is important for epiblast growth during E6.5~E7.5, and the loss of Cul4b results in either delayed growth of the epiblast or defective localization of primitive streak layer cells. As a result, the signaling activity mediated by the epiblast for subsequent ectoplacental cone development is affected, with the potential to induce growth retardation and lethality in Cul4bΔ/Y embryos.
Neuronal subtypes show diverse injury responses, but the molecular underpinnings remain elusive. Using transgenic mice that allow reliable visualization of axonal fate, we demonstrate that intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) are both resilient to cell death and highly regenerative. Using RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), we show genes that are differentially expressed in ipRGCs and that associate with their survival and axon regeneration. Strikingly, thrombospondin-1 (Thbs1) ranked as the most differentially expressed gene, along with the well-documented injury-response genes Atf3 and Jun. THBS1 knockdown in RGCs eliminated axon regeneration. Conversely, RGC overexpression of THBS1 enhanced regeneration in both ipRGCs and non-ipRGCs, an effect that was dependent on syndecan-1, a known THBS1-binding protein. All structural domains of the THBS1 were not equally effective; the trimerization and C-terminal domains promoted regeneration, while the THBS type-1 repeats were dispensable. Our results identify cell-type-specific induction of Thbs1 as a novel gene conferring high regenerative capacity.
The Ikaros family of transcription factors (TFs) are important regulators of lymphocyte function. However, their roles in human innate lymphoid cell (ILC) function remain unclear. Here, we found that Ikaros (IKZF1) is expressed by all ILC subsets, including NK cells, in blood, tonsil, and gut, while Helios (IKZF2) is preferentially expressed by ILC3 in tonsil and gut. Aiolos (IKZF3) followed the expression pattern of T-bet and Eomes, being predominantly expressed by ILC1 and NK cells. Differentiation of IFN-γ-producing ILC1 and NK cells from ILC3 by IL-1β plus IL-12-stimulation was associated with upregulation of T-bet and Aiolos. Selective degradation of Aiolos and Ikaros by lenalidomide suppressed ILC1 and NK cell differentiation and expression of ILC1 and NK cell-related transcripts (LEF1, PRF1, GRZB, CD244, NCR3, and IRF8). In line with reduced ILC1/NK cell differentiation, we observed an increase in the expression of the ILC3-related TF Helios, as well as ILC3 transcripts (TNFSF13B, IL22, NRP1, and RORC) and in the frequency of IL-22 producing ILC3 in cultures with IL-1β and IL-23. These data suggest that suppression of Aiolos and Ikaros expression inhibits ILC1 and NK cell differentiation while ILC3 function is maintained. Hence, our results open up for new possibilities in targeting Ikaros family TFs for modulation of type 1/3 immunity in inflammation and cancer.
Long-term maintenance of spermatogenesis in mammals is supported by GDNF, an essential growth factor required for spermatogonial stem cell (SSC) self-renewal. Exploiting a transgenic GDNF overexpression model, which expands and normalizes the pool of undifferentiated spermatogonia between Plzf +/+ and Plzf lu/lu mice, we used RNAseq to identify a rare subpopulation of cells that express EOMES, a T-box transcription factor. Lineage tracing and busulfan challenge show that these are SSCs that contribute to steady state spermatogenesis as well as regeneration following chemical injury. EOMES+ SSCs have a lower proliferation index in wild-type than in Plzf lu/lu mice, suggesting that PLZF regulates their proliferative activity and that EOMES+ SSCs are lost through proliferative exhaustion in Plzf lu/lu mice. Single cell RNA sequencing of EOMES+ cells from Plzf +/+ and Plzf lu/lu mice support the conclusion that SSCs are hierarchical yet heterogeneous.
Immunological memory is a phenomenon where the immune system can respond more rapidly to pathogens and immunological challenges that it has previously encountered. It is defined by several key hallmarks. After an initial encounter, immune cells (1) expand and (2) differentiate to form memory cell populations. Memory cells are (3) long-lived and (4) facilitate more rapid immune responses to subsequent infection because of (i) an increase in cell number, (ii) a decrease in the signaling threshold required for entry into cell cycle or effector function and (iii) localization of cells to tissue sites for surveillance. Classically, immunological memory has been antigen specific but it is becoming apparent that mechanisms of immunological memory can be co-opted by innate or antigen-inexperienced immune cells to generate heterogeneity in immune responses. One such cell is the virtual memory CD8 T (TVM ) cell, which is a semi-differentiated but antigen-naïve CD8 T-cell population. This review will summarize current knowledge of how TVM cells are generated, their memory-like hallmarks, how they are maintained during steady state, infection and aging, and propose a model to integrate key signaling pathways during their generation.
Testicular germ cell tumors (GCTs) are very common in young men and can be stratified into seminomas and non-seminomas. While seminomas share a similar gene expression and epigenetic profile with primordial germ cells, the stem cell population of the non-seminomas, the embryonal carcinoma (EC), resembles malignant embryonic stem cells. Thus, ECs are able to differentiate into cells of all three germ layers (teratomas) and even extra-embryonic-tissue-like cells (yolk-sac tumor, choriocarcinoma). In the last years, we demonstrated that the cellular microenvironment considerably influences the plasticity of seminomas (TCam-2 cells). Upon a microenvironment-triggered inhibition of the BMP signaling pathway in vivo (murine flank or brain), seminomatous TCam-2 cells reprogram to an EC-like cell fate. We identified SOX2 as a key factor activated upon BMP inhibition mediating the reprogramming process by regulating pluripotency, reprogramming and epigenetic factors. Indeed, CRISPR/Cas9 SOX2-deleted TCam-2 cells were able to maintain a seminoma-cell fate in vivo for about six weeks, but after six weeks in vivo still small sub-populations initiated differentiation. Closer analyses of these differentiated clusters suggested that the pioneer factor FOXA2 might be the driving force behind this induction of differentiation, since many FOXA2 interacting genes and differentiation factors like AFP, EOMES, CDX1, ALB, HAND1, DKK, DLK1, MSX1 and PITX2 were upregulated. In this study, we generated TCam-2 cells double-deficient for SOX2 and FOXA2 using the CRISPR/Cas9 technique and xenografted those cells into the flank of nude mice. Upon loss of SOX2 and FOXA2, TCam-2 maintained a seminoma cell fate for at least twelve weeks, demonstrating that both factors are key players in the reprogramming to an EC-like cell fate. Therefore, our study adds an important piece to the puzzle of GCT development and plasticity, providing interesting insights in what can be expected in a patient, when GCT cells are confronted with different microenvironments.
Comment in    J Hepatol. 2019 Aug;71(2):237-239.
Simulated Infective Protocol (SIP) is an ex-vivo culture system modeled after the temporal changes of essential cytokines in an acute infection, and previously proven successful in converting T lymphocytes harvested and activated from peripheral blood of normal donors, to revertant CD45RA + Central Memory T lymphocytes (Tcmra) demonstrating properties akin to T Memory Stem Cells (Tscm). In this study, we applied similar SIP on tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) from bone marrow of patients diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and replicated the feasibility to convert activated TILs into Tcmra phenotype. These revertant Tcmra lymphocytes re-expressed CD45RA+, CCR7+, CD62L + and CD127+, shown improved survivability with longer telomere length, expressed memory properties including higher Eomes to Tbet ratio, and exhibited cytotoxicity against autologous AML blast cells.
Owing to recent medical and technological advances in neonatal care, infants born extremely premature have increased survival rates1,2. After birth, these infants are at high risk of hypoxic episodes because of lung immaturity, hypotension and lack of cerebral-flow regulation, and can develop a severe condition called encephalopathy of prematurity3. Over 80% of infants born before post-conception week 25 have moderate-to-severe long-term neurodevelopmental impairments4. The susceptible cell types in the cerebral cortex and the molecular mechanisms underlying associated gray-matter defects in premature infants remain unknown. Here we used human three-dimensional brain-region-specific organoids to study the effect of oxygen deprivation on corticogenesis. We identified specific defects in intermediate progenitors, a cortical cell type associated with the expansion of the human cerebral cortex, and showed that these are related to the unfolded protein response and changes. Moreover, we verified these findings in human primary cortical tissue and demonstrated that a small-molecule modulator of the unfolded protein response pathway can prevent the reduction in intermediate progenitors following hypoxia. We anticipate that this human cellular platform will be valuable for studying the environmental and genetic factors underlying injury in the developing human brain.
Cancer progression is marked by dysfunctional tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) with high inhibitory receptor (IR) expression. Because IR blockade has led to clinical responses in some patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), we investigated how IRs influenced CD8+ TIL function from freshly digested early-stage NSCLC tissues using a killing assay and intracellular cytokine staining after in vitro T-cell restimulation. Early-stage lung cancer TIL function was heterogeneous with only about one third of patients showing decrements in cytokine production and lytic function. TIL hypofunction did not correlate with clinical factors, coexisting immune cells (macrophages, neutrophils, or CD4+ T regulatory cells), nor with PD-1, TIGIT, TIM-3, CD39, or CTLA-4 expression. Instead, we found that the presence of the integrin αeβ7 (CD103), characteristic of tissue-resident memory cells (TRM), was positively associated with cytokine production, whereas expression of the transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) was negatively associated with TIL function. These data suggest that the functionality of CD8+ TILs from early-stage NSCLCs may be influenced by competition between an antitumor CD103+ TRM program and an exhaustion program marked by Eomes expression. Understanding the mechanisms of T-cell function in the progression of lung cancer may have clinical implications for immunotherapy.
Eomes regulates the differentiation of CD8+ T cells into effector and memory phases. However, its role in invariant (i)NKT cells remains unknown. Here, we show the impact of Eomes on iNKT cells in the thymus and peripheral tissue using conditional knockout (Eomes-cKO) mice. In the thymus, CD1d-tetramer+CD24+CD44-NK1.1-CD69+stage 0 iNKT cells express higher levels of Eomes than the other iNKT stages. We also found that Eomes regulates NKT1 cell differentiation predominantly. Interestingly, the expression of Eomes in the steady state is low, but can be upregulated after TCR stimulation. We also showed epigenetic changes in the Eomes locus after activation. In addition, vaccination of C57BL/6, but not Eomes-cKO mice with iNKT ligand-loaded dendritic cells generated KLRG1+iNKT cells in lung, characterized as effector memory phenotype by transcriptome profiling. Thus, Eomes regulates not only the differentiation of NKT1 cells in the thymus, but also their differentiation into memory-like KLRG1+iNKT cells in the periphery.
Following fertilization, totipotent cells undergo asymmetric cell divisions, resulting in three distinct cell types in the late pre-implantation blastocyst: epiblast (Epi), primitive endoderm (PrE), and trophectoderm (TE). Here, we aim to understand whether these three cell types can be induced from fibroblasts by one combination of transcription factors. By utilizing a sophisticated fluorescent knockin reporter system, we identified a combination of five transcription factors, Gata3, Eomes, Tfap2c, Myc, and Esrrb, that can reprogram fibroblasts into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), induced trophoblast stem cells (iTSCs), and induced extraembryonic endoderm stem cells (iXENs), concomitantly. In-depth transcriptomic, chromatin, and epigenetic analyses provide insights into the molecular mechanisms that underlie the reprogramming process toward the three cell types. Mechanistically, we show that the interplay between Esrrb and Eomes during the reprogramming process determines cell fate, where high levels of Esrrb induce a XEN-like state that drives pluripotency and high levels of Eomes drive trophectodermal fate.
We previously showed that potassium channel tetramerization domain containing 9 (KCTD9) is aberrantly expressed in natural killer (NK) cells in patients with hepatitis B virus-associated acute-on-chronic liver failure and mice with experimental fulminant hepatitis. However, the mechanism underlying the regulation of NK cell function and fulminant hepatitis progression by KCTD9 is unknown. Here, we investigated the role of Kctd9 in regulation of early development, maturation, and function of NK cells using Kctd9-knockout mice. Compared to wild-type mice, Kctd9-deficient mice exhibited impaired NK cell lineage commitment, as evidenced by selective reduction in the refined NK progenitors, and incomplete NK cell maturation, as manifested by a higher proportion of CD11b- NK cells and a lower percentage of CD11b+ NK cells with high proliferative potential. Moreover, Kctd9-depleted NK cells displayed insufficient IFN-γ production, degranulation, and granzyme B production in response to cytokine stimulation, and attenuated cytotoxicity to tumor cells in vitro. The defect in NK cells was further supported by ameliorated liver damage and improved survival in Kctd9-deficient mice following murine hepatitis virus strain-3 (MHV-3) infection, which otherwise leads to immune-mediated fulminant hepatitis, a phenotype homologous to that caused by NK cell depletion in wild-type mice. Further investigation to identify the underlying mechanism revealed that Kctd9 deficiency hindered the expression of transcription factors, including Ets1, Nfil3, Eomes, and Id2 in NK cells. Collectively, our data reveal that Kctd9 acts as a novel regulator for NK cell commitment, maturation, and effector function.
BACKGROUND: Successful treatment for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains challenging. Inhibiting immune checkpoint to enhance anti-tumor response is an attractive strategy for effective leukemia therapeutics. CD73 is a recently recognized immune checkpoint mediator that is highly expressed on tumor cells and stromal cells in tumor microenvironment. The ectonucleotidase activity of CD73 catalyzes AMP to adenosine, which subsequently inhibits anti-tumor immune responses. In this study, we aim to explore the effect of CD73 in AML.METHODS: Peripheral blood samples collected from patients with newly diagnosed AML (n = 27) were used in this study. CD73 expression on each immune cell component was examined by flow cytometry. Phenotypic study of CD73-expressing T cells and analysis of the correlation between CD73 and other immune checkpoints were performed using flow cytometry-based assays. Functional status of CD73+ vs. CD73- T cells was assessed in an in vitro cytokine release assay upon CD3/CD28 antibody stimulation.RESULTS: In contrast to the long recognized immune suppressive effect of CD73-adenosine signaling in tumor tissue, we made a striking observation that in AML, CD73 expression on CD8 T cells associates with an increased immune response. CD73+ CD8 T cells are more functional, whereas CD73- CD8 T cells exhibit features of exhaustion manifested by high expression of inhibitory receptors such as PD-1 and TIGIT, increased intracellular expression of Eomes, reduced capacity of cytokine production, and high susceptibility to apoptosis.CONCLUSIONS: Our data highlight the potential of CD73 as a double-edged sword in anti-leukemia immunity and argue strongly for the combinational treatment by adding immune checkpoint inhibitors to the CD73-targeting approaches.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) persists with global and virus-specific T-cell dysfunction, without T-cell based correlates of outcomes. To determine if γδT-cells are altered in HBV infection relative to clinical status, we examined the frequency, phenotype and function of peripheral blood Vδ1+ and Vδ2+γδT-cells by multi-parameter cytometry in a clinically diverse North American cohort of chronic hepatitis B (CHB), acute hepatitis B (AHB) and uninfected control subjects. We show that circulating γδT-cells were comprised predominantly of CD3hiCD4- Vδ2+γδT-cells with frequencies that were 2-3 fold higher among Asian than non-Asian Americans and inversely correlated with age, but without differences between CHB, AHB and control subjects. However, compared to control subjects, CHB was associated with increased TbethiEomesdim phenotype in Vδ2+γδT-cells whereas AHB was associated with increased TbethiEomesdim phenotype in Vδ1+γδT-cells, with significant correlations between Tbet/Eomes expression in γδT-cells with their expression of NK and T-cell activation and regulatory markers. As for effector functions, IFNγ/TNF responses to phosphoantigens or PMA/Ionomycin in Vδ2+γδT-cells were weaker in AHB but preserved in CHB, without significant differences for Vδ1+γδT-cells. Furthermore, early IFNγ/TNF responses in Vδ2+ γδT-cells to brief PMA/Ionomycin stimulation correlated inversely with serum ALT but not HBV DNA. Accordingly, IFNγ/TNF responses in Vδ2+γδT-cells were weaker in patients with CHB with hepatitis flare compared to those without hepatitis flares, and this functional deficit persisted beyond clinical resolution of CHB flare. We conclude that circulating γδT-cells show distinct activation and differentiatiation in acute and chronic HBV infection as part of lymphoid stress surveillance with potential role in clinical outcomes.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) has been recommended as the first-line agent for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL), due to its substantial anticancer effect. Numerous clinical reports have indicated that ATO is a developmental toxicant which can result in birth defects of human beings. But whether arsenic trioxide can lead to human cardiac developmental toxicity remains largely unknown. So the present study aims to explore the influence and mechanisms of ATO on human cardiac development by using a vitro cardiac differentiation model of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). Here we found that clinically achievable concentrations (0.1, 0.5 and 1 μM) of ATO resulted in a significant inhibition of proliferation during the whole process of cardiac differentiation of hiPSCs. Meanwhile, TUNEL assay revealed that ATO could cause cell apoptosis during cardiac differentiation in a concentration-dependent manner. Consistently, we found that ATO reduced the expressions of mesoderm markers Brachyury and EOMES, cardiac progenitor cell markers GATA-4, MESP-1 and TBX-5, and cardiac specific marker α-actinin in differentiated hiPSCs. Furthermore, ATO treatment had caused DNA damage which was shown in the upregulation of γH2AX, a sensitive marker for DNA double-strand breaks. Taken together, ATO blocked cardiomyocyte differentiation, induced apoptosis and cell growth arrest during cardiac differentiation of hiPSCs, which might be associated with DNA damage.
Tissue-resident Natural Killer (NK) cells vary in phenotype according to tissue origin, but are typically CD56bright, CXCR6+, and CD69+. NK cells appear very early in fetal development, but little is known about when markers of tissue residency appear during gestation and whether the expression of these markers, most notably the chemokine receptor CXCR6, are associated with differences in functional capability. Using multi-parametric flow cytometry, we interrogated fetal liver and spleen NK cells for the expression of a multitude of extracellular markers associated with NK cell maturation, differentiation, and migration. We analyzed total NK cells from fetal liver and spleen and compared them to their adult liver and spleen counterparts, and peripheral blood (PB) NK. We found that fetal NK cells resemble each other and their adult counterparts more than PB NK. Maturity markers including CD16, CD57, and KIR are lower in fetal NK cells than PB, and markers associated with an immature phenotype are higher in fetal liver and spleen NK cells (NKG2A, CD94, and CD27). However, T-bet/EOMES transcription factor profiles are similar amongst fetal and adult liver and spleen NK cells (T-bet-/EOMES+) but differ from PB NK cells (T-bet+EOMES-). Further, donor-matched fetal liver and spleen NK cells share similar patterns of expression for most markers as a function of gestational age. We also performed functional studies including degranulation, cytotoxicity, and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) assays. Fetal liver and spleen NK cells displayed limited cytotoxic effector function in chromium release assays but produced copious amounts of TNFα and IFNγ, and degranulated efficiently in response to stimulation with PMA/ionomycin. Further, CXCR6+ NK cells in fetal liver and spleen produce more cytokines and degranulate more robustly than their CXCR6- counterparts, even though CXCR6+ NK cells in fetal liver and spleen possess an immature phenotype. Major differences between CXCR6- and + NK cell subsets appear to occur later in development, as a distinct CXCR6+ NK cell phenotype is much more clearly defined in PB. In conclusion, fetal liver and spleen NK cells share similar phenotypes, resemble their adult counterparts, and already possess a distinct CXCR6+ NK cell population with discrete functional capabilities.
The California sea lion is one of the few wild mammals prone to develop cancer, particularly urogenital carcinoma (UGC), whose prevalence is currently estimated at 25% of dead adult sea lions stranded along the California coastline. Genetic factors, viruses and organochlorines have been identified as factors that increase the risk of occurrence of this pathology. Given that no cases of UGC have as yet been reported for the species along its distribution in Mexican waters, the potential relevance of contaminants for the development of urogenital carcinoma is highlighted even more as blubber levels of organochlorines are more than two orders of magnitude lower in the Gulf of California and Mexican Pacific than in California. In vitro studies have shown that organochlorines can modulate anti-viral and tumor-surveillance activities of NK and cytotoxic T-cells of marine mammals, but little is known about the activity of these effectors in live, free-living sea lions. Here, we examine leukocyte transcriptional profiles of free-ranging adult California sea lions for eight genes (Eomes, Granzyme B, Perforin, Ly49, STAT1, Tbx21, GATA3, and FoxP3) selected for their key role in anti-viral and tumor-surveillance, and investigate patterns of transcription that could be indicative of differences in ecological variables and exposure to two oncogenic viruses: sea lion type one gammaherpesvirus (OtHV-1) and sea lion papillomavirus type 1 (ZcPV-1) and systemic inflammation. We observed regional differences in the expression of genes related to Th1 responses and immune modulation, and detected clear patterns of differential regulation of gene expression in sea lions infected by genital papillomavirus compared to those infected by genital gammaherpesvirus or for simultaneous infections, similar to what is known about herpesvirus and papillomavirus infections in humans. Our study is a first approach to profile the transcriptional patterns of key immune effectors of free-ranging California sea lions and their association with ecological regions and oncogenic viruses. The observed results add insight to our understanding of immune competence of marine mammals, and may help elucidate the marked difference in the number of cases of urogenital carcinoma in sea lions from US waters and other areas of their distribution.
Unlike mice and humans, porcine γδ T cells represent a prominent subset of T cells in blood and secondary lymphatic organs. GATA-3, T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes) are transcription factors with crucial functions in T-cell development and functional differentiation, but their expression has not been investigated in porcine γδ T cells so far. We analyzed the expression of these transcription factors in γδ thymocytes, mature γδ T cells from blood, spleen, lymph nodes, and lung tissue as well as in vitro stimulated γδ T cells on the protein level by flow cytometry. GATA-3 was present in more than 80% of all γδ-thymocytes. Extra-thymic CD2- γδ T cells expressed high levels of GATA-3 in all investigated organs and had a CD8α-/dimCD27+perforin- phenotype. T-bet expression was mainly found in a subset of CD2+ γδ T cells with an opposing CD8αhighCD27dim/-perforin+ phenotype. Eomes+ γδ T cells were also found within CD2+ γδ T cells but were heterogeneous in regard to expression of CD8α, CD27, and perforin. Eomes+ γδ T cells frequently co-expressed T-bet and dominated in the spleen. During aging, CD2-GATA-3+ γδ T cells strongly prevailed in young pigs up to an age of about 2 years but declined in older animals where CD2+T-bet+ γδ T cells became more prominent. Despite high GATA-3 expression levels, IL-4 production could not be found in γδ T cells by intracellular cytokine staining. Experiments with sorted and ConA + IL-2 + IL-12 + IL-18-stimulated CD2- γδ T cells showed that proliferating cells start expressing CD2 and T-bet, produce IFN-γ, but retain GATA-3 expression. In summary, our data suggest a role for GATA-3 in the development of γδ-thymocytes and in the function of peripheral CD2-CD8α-/dimCD27+perforin- γδ T cells. In contrast, T-bet expression appears to be restricted to terminal differentiation stages of CD2+ γδ T cells, frequently coinciding with perforin expression. The functional relevance of high GATA-3 expression levels in extra-thymic CD2- γδ T cells awaits further clarification. However, their unique phenotype suggests that they represent a thymus-derived separate lineage of γδ T cells in the pig for which currently no direct counterpart in rodents or humans has been described.
The major cause of death after allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is disease relapse. We investigated the expression of Inhibitory Receptors (IR; PD-1/CTLA-4/TIM-3/LAG-3/2B4/KLRG1/GITR) on T cells infiltrating the bone marrow (BM) of 32 AML patients relapsing (median 251 days) or maintaining complete remission (CR; median 1 year) after HSCT. A higher proportion of early-differentiated Memory Stem (TSCM) and Central Memory BM-T cells express multiple IR in relapsing patients than in CR patients. Exhausted BM-T cells at relapse display a restricted TCR repertoire, impaired effector functions and leukemia-reactive specificities. In 57 patients, early detection of severely exhausted (PD-1+Eomes+T-bet-) BM-TSCM predicts relapse. Accordingly, leukemia-specific T cells in patients prone to relapse display exhaustion markers, absent in patients maintaining long-term CR. These results highlight a wide, though reversible, immunological dysfunction in the BM of AML patients relapsing after HSCT and suggest new therapeutic opportunities for the disease.
The identification of T-bet as a key transcription factor associated with the development of IFNγ-producing CD4+ T cells predicted a crucial role for T-bet in cell-mediated immunity and in resistance to many intracellular infections. This idea was reinforced by initial reports showing that T-bet-deficient mice were more susceptible to pathogens that survived within the lysosomal system of macrophages. However, subsequent studies revealed IFNγ-dependent, T-bet-independent pathways of resistance to diverse classes of microorganisms that occupy other intracellular niches. Consequently, a more complex picture has emerged of how T-bet and the related transcription factor eomesodermin (EOMES) coordinate many facets of the immune response to bona fide pathogens as well as commensals. This article provides an overview of the discovery and evolutionary relationship between T-bet and EOMES and highlights the studies that have uncovered broader functions of T-bet in innate and adaptive immunity and in the development of the effector and memory T cell populations that mediate long-term resistance to infection.
The essential roles played by Nodal and Bmp signalling during early mouse development have been extensively documented. Here we use conditional deletion strategies to investigate functional contributions made by Nodal, Bmp and Smad downstream effectors during primordial germ cell (PGC) development. We demonstrate that Nodal and its target gene Eomes provide early instructions during formation of the PGC lineage. We discover that Smad2 inactivation in the visceral endoderm results in increased numbers of PGCs due to an expansion of the PGC niche. Smad1 is required for specification, whereas in contrast Smad4 controls the maintenance and migration of PGCs. Additionally we find that beside Blimp1, down-regulated phospho-Smad159 levels also distinguishes PGCs from their somatic neighbours so that emerging PGCs become refractory to Bmp signalling that otherwise promotes mesodermal development in the posterior epiblast. Thus balanced Nodal/Bmp signalling cues regulate germ cell versus somatic cell fate decisions in the early posterior epiblast.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILC), including natural killer (NK) cells, are implicated in host-defense and tissue-growth. However, the composition and kinetics of NK cells in the intestine during the first year of life, when infants are first broadly exposed to exogenous antigens, are still unclear. Here we show that CD103+ NK cells are the major ILC population in the small intestines of infants. When compared to adult intestinal NK cells, infant intestinal NK cells exhibit a robust effector phenotype, characterized by Eomes, perforin and granzyme B expression, and superior degranulation capacity. Absolute intestinal NK cell numbers decrease gradually during the first year of life, coinciding with an influx of intestinal Eomes+ T cells; by contrast, epithelial NKp44+CD69+ NK cells with less cytotoxic capacity persist in adults. In conclusion, NK cells are abundant in infant intestines, where they can provide effector functions while Eomes+ T cell responses mature.
The long-term persistence of viral antigens drives virus-specific CD8 T cell exhaustion during chronic viral infection. Yet exhausted, CD8 T cells are still endowed with certain levels of effector function, by which they can keep viral replication in check in chronic infection. However, the regulatory factors involved in regulating the effector function of exhausted CD8 T cell are largely unknown. Using mouse model of chronic LCMV infection, we found that the deletion of transcription factor TCF-1 in LCMV-specific exhausted CD8 T cells led to the profound reduction in cytokine production and degranulation. Conversely, ectopic expression of TCF-1 or using agonist to activate TCF-1 activities promotes the effector function of exhausted CD8 T cells. Mechanistically, TCF-1 fuels the functionalities of exhausted CD8 T cells by promoting the expression of an array of key effector function-associated transcription regulators, including Foxo1, Zeb2, Id3, and Eomes. These results collectively indicate that targeting TCF-1 mediated transcriptional pathway may represent a promising immunotherapy strategy against chronic viral infections by reinvigorating the effector function of exhausted virus-specific CD8 T cells.
NK cells are innate-like lymphocytes that eliminate virally infected and cancerous cells, but the mechanisms that control NK cell development and cytotoxicity are incompletely understood. We identified roles for sclerostin domain-containing-1 (Sostdc1) in NK cell development and function. Sostdc1-knockout (Sostdc1 -/-) mice display a progressive accumulation of transitional NK cells (tNKs) (CD27+CD11b+) with age, indicating a partial developmental block. The NK cell Ly49 repertoire in Sostdc1 -/- mice is also changed. Lower frequencies of Sostdc1 -/- splenic tNKs express inhibitory Ly49G2 receptors, but higher frequencies express activating Ly49H and Ly49D receptors. However, the frequencies of Ly49I+, G2+, H+, and D+ populations were universally decreased at the most mature (CD27-CD11b+) stage. We hypothesized that the Ly49 repertoire in Sostdc1 -/- mice would correlate with NK killing ability and observed that Sostdc1-/- NK cells are hyporesponsive against MHC class I-deficient cell targets in vitro and in vivo, despite higher CD107a surface levels and similar IFN-γ expression to controls. Consistent with Sostdc1's known role in Wnt signaling regulation, Tcf7 and Lef1 levels were higher in Sostdc1 -/- NK cells. Expression of the NK development gene Id2 was decreased in Sostdc1-/- immature NK and tNK cells, but Eomes and Tbx21 expression was unaffected. Reciprocal bone marrow transplant experiments showed that Sostdc1 regulates NK cell maturation and expression of Ly49 receptors in a cell-extrinsic fashion from both nonhematopoietic and hematopoietic sources. Taken together, these data support a role for Sostdc1 in the regulation of NK cell maturation and cytotoxicity, and identify potential NK cell niches.
Cancer immunotherapies provide survival benefits in responding patients, but many patients fail to respond. Identifying the biology of treatment response and resistance are a priority to optimize drug selection and improve patient outcomes. We performed transcriptomic and immune profiling on 158 tumor biopsies from melanoma patients treated with anti-PD-1 monotherapy (n = 63) or combined anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 (n = 57). These data identified activated T cell signatures and T cell populations in responders to both treatments. Further mass cytometry analysis identified an EOMES+CD69+CD45RO+ effector memory T cell phenotype that was significantly more abundant in responders to combined immunotherapy compared with non-responders (n = 18). The gene expression profile of this population was associated with longer progression-free survival in patients treated with single agent and greater tumor shrinkage in both treatments.
BACKGROUND: Therapies targeting anti-tumor T-cell responses have proven successful in the treatment of a variety of malignancies. However, as most patients still fail to respond, approaches to augment immunotherapeutic efficacy are needed. Here, we investigated the ability of histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6)-selective inhibitors to decrease immunosuppression and enhance immune function of melanoma patient T-cells in ex vivo cultures.METHODS: T-cells were harvested from peripheral blood or tumor biopsies of metastatic melanoma patients and cultured in the presence of pan-, class-specific or class-selective histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors. Changes in cytokine production were evaluated by Luminex and intracellular flow cytometry staining. Expression of surface markers, transcription factors, protein phosphorylation, and cell viability were assessed by flow cytometry. Changes in chromatin structure were determined by ATAC-seq.RESULTS: T-cell viability was impaired with low doses of pan-HDAC inhibitors but not with specific or selective HDAC inhibitors. The HDAC6-selective inhibitors ACY-1215 (ricolinostat) and ACY-241 (citarinostat) decreased Th2 cytokine production (i.e. IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10 and IL-13). Expansion of peripheral blood T-cells from melanoma patients in the presence of these inhibitors resulted in downregulation of the Th2 transcription factor GATA3, upregulation of the Th1 transcription factor T-BET, accumulation of central memory phenotype T-cells (CD45RA-CD45RO + CD62L + CCR7+), reduced exhaustion-associated phenotypes (i.e. TIM3 + LAG3 + PD1+ and EOMES+PD1+), and enhanced killing in mixed lymphocyte reactions. The frequency, FOXP3 expression, and suppressive function of T regulatory cells (Tregs) were decreased after exposure to ACY-1215 or ACY-241. Higher frequencies of T-cells expressing CD107a + IFNγ+ and central memory markers were observed in melanoma tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL), which persisted after drug removal and further expansion. After ACY-1215 treatment, increased chromatin accessibility was observed in regions associated with T-cell effector function and memory phenotypes, while condensed chromatin was found in regions encoding the mTOR downstream molecules AKT, SGK1 and S6K. Decreased phosphorylation of these proteins was observed in ACY-1215 and ACY-241-treated T-cells. AKT- and SGK1-specific inhibition recapitulated the increase in central memory frequency and decrease in IL-4 production, respectively, similar to the observed effects of HDAC6-selective inhibition.CONCLUSIONS: HDAC6-selective inhibitors augmented melanoma patient T-cell immune properties, providing a rationale for translational investigation assessing their potential clinical efficacy.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a devastating blood cancer with poor prognosis. Immunotherapy targeting inhibitory pathways to unleash the antileukemia T-cell response is a promising strategy for the treatment of leukemia, but we must first understand the underlying molecular mechanisms. Eomesodermin (Eomes) and T-bet are both T-box transcription factors that regulate CD8+ T-cell responses in a context-specific manner. Here, we examined the role of these transcription factors in CD8+ T-cell immunity in AML patients. We report that the frequency of Eomes+T-betlow CD8+ T cells increased in newly diagnosed AML. This cell subset produced fewer cytokines and displayed reduced killing capacity, whereas depletion of Eomes by siRNA reversed these functional defects. Furthermore, Eomes bound the promoter of T-cell immunoglobulin and ITIM domain (TIGIT) and positively regulated the expression of this inhibitory receptor on patient-derived T cells. A high frequency of Eomes+T-betlow CD8+ T cells was associated with poor response to induction chemotherapy and shorter overall survival in AML patients. These findings have significant clinical implications as they not only identify a predictive and prognostic biomarker for AML, but they also provide an important target for effective leukemia therapeutics. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings reveal that a high frequency of Eomes+T-betlow CD8+ T cells predicts poor clinical outcome in AML and that targeting Eomes may provide a therapeutic benefit against AML.
Extreme environmental conditions are a major challenge in livestock production. Changes in climate, particularly those that contribute to weather extremes like drought or excessive humidity, may result in reduced performance and reproduction and could compromise the animal's immune function. Animal survival within extreme environmental conditions could be in response to natural selection and to artificial selection for production traits that over time together may leave selection signatures in the genome. The aim of this study was to identify selection signatures that may be involved in the adaptation of indigenous chickens from two different climatic regions (Sri Lanka = Tropical; Egypt = Arid) and in non-indigenous chickens that derived from human migration events to the generally tropical State of São Paulo, Brazil. To do so, analyses were conducted using fixation index (Fst) and hapFLK analyses. Chickens from Brazil (n = 156), Sri Lanka (n = 92), and Egypt (n = 96) were genotyped using the Affymetrix Axiom®600k Chicken Genotyping Array. Pairwise Fst analyses among countries did not detect major regions of divergence between chickens from Sri Lanka and Brazil, with ecotypes/breeds from Brazil appearing to be genetically related to Asian-Indian (Sri Lanka) ecotypes. However, several differences were detected in comparisons of Egyptian with either Sri Lankan or Brazilian populations, and common regions of difference on chromosomes 2, 3 and 8 were detected. The hapFLK analyses for the three separate countries suggested unique regions that are potentially under selection on chromosome 1 for all three countries, on chromosome 4 for Sri Lankan, and on chromosomes 3, 5, and 11 for the Egyptian populations. Some of identified regions under selection with hapFLK analyses contained genes such as TLR3, SOCS2, EOMES, and NFAT5 whose biological functions could provide insights in understanding adaptation mechanisms in response to arid and tropical environments.
Ataxia Telangiectasia (A-T) is neurodegenerative syndrome caused by inherited mutations inactivating the ATM kinase, a master regulator of the DNA damage response (DDR). What makes neurons vulnerable to ATM loss remains unclear. In this study we assessed on human iPSC-derived neurons whether the abnormal accumulation of DNA-Topoisomerase 1 adducts (Top1ccs) found in A-T impairs transcription elongation, thus favoring neurodegeneration. Furthermore, whether neuronal activity-induced immediate early genes (IEGs), a process involving the formation of DNA breaks, is affected by ATM deficiency. We found that Top1cc trapping by CPT induces an ATM-dependent DDR as well as an ATM-independent induction of IEGs and repression especially of long genes. As revealed by nascent RNA sequencing, transcriptional elongation and recovery were found to proceed with the same rate, irrespective of gene length and ATM status. Neuronal activity induced by glutamate receptors stimulation, or membrane depolarization with KCl, triggered a DDR and expression of IEGs, the latter independent of ATM. In unperturbed A-T neurons a set of genes (FN1, DCN, RASGRF1, FZD1, EOMES, SHH, NR2E1) implicated in the development, maintenance and physiology of central nervous system was specifically downregulated, underscoring their potential involvement in the neurodegenerative process in A-T patients.
In developing cerebral cortex, intermediate progenitors (IPs) are transit amplifying cells that specifically express Tbr2 (gene: Eomes), a T-box transcription factor. IPs are derived from radial glia (RG) progenitors, the neural stem cells of developing cortex. In turn, IPs generate glutamatergic projection neurons (PNs) exclusively. IPs are found in ventricular and subventricular zones, where they differentiate as distinct ventricular IP (vIP) and outer IP (oIP) subtypes. Morphologically, IPs have short processes, resembling filopodia or neurites, that transiently contact other cells, most importantly dividing RG cells to mediate Delta-Notch signaling. Also, IPs secrete a chemokine, Cxcl12, which guides interneuron and microglia migrations and promotes thalamocortical axon growth. In mice, IPs produce clones of 1-12 PNs, sometimes spanning multiple layers. After mitosis, IP daughter cells undergo asymmetric cell death in the majority of instances. In mice, Tbr2 is necessary for PN differentiation and subtype specification, and to repress IP-genic transcription factors. Tbr2 directly represses Insm1, an IP-genic transcription factor gene, as well as Pax6, a key activator of Tbr2 transcription. Without Tbr2, abnormal IPs transiently accumulate in elevated numbers. More broadly, Tbr2 regulates the transcriptome by activating or repressing hundreds of direct target genes. Notably, Tbr2 'unlocks' and activates PN-specific genes, such as Tbr1, by recruiting Jmjd3, a histone H3K27me3 demethylase that removes repressive epigenetic marks placed by polycomb repressive complex 2. IPs have played an important role in the evolution and gyrification of mammalian cerebral cortex, and TBR2 is essential for human brain development.
PURPOSE: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) are used for the treatment of various cancers, but clinical trials of anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) with patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) have failed to show clinical benefits. In this study, we examined the differentiation status of CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) from patients with primary GBM and their reinvigoration by ICIs to understand the nature of T-cell exhaustion in GBM.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We isolated TILs from 98 patients with newly diagnosed GBM and examined the expression of immune checkpoint receptors and T-cell transcription factors using flow cytometry. TILs were ex vivo stimulated with anti-CD3 in the presence of anti-PD-1 and/or anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and their proliferation assessed.RESULTS: CD8+ TILs had significantly increased expression of immune checkpoint receptors, including PD-1 and CTLA-4, compared with peripheral blood CD8+ T cells. Among CD8+ TILs, PD-1+ cells exhibited more terminally differentiated phenotypes (i.e., EomeshiT-betlo) than PD-1- cells. These data were confirmed by analyzing NY-ESO-1157-specific CD8+ TILs. Evaluating the proliferation of CD8+ TILs after ex vivo stimulation with anti-CD3 and anti-PD-1, we found that proliferation inversely correlated with the percentage of EomeshiT-betlo cells among PD-1+CD8+ TILs. When anti-CTLA-4 was used in combination with anti-PD-1, an additional increase in CD8+ TIL proliferation was observed in patients with low percentages of EomeshiT-betlo CD8+ TILs, who responded well to anti-PD-1 in ex vivo assays, but not in patients with high percentages of EomeshiT-betlo CD8+ TILs, who did not respond to anti-PD-1.CONCLUSIONS: In primary GBM, the differentiation status of CD8+ TILs determines their reinvigoration ability upon ICI treatment.
OBJECTIVE: Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) virus infection is a global health problem. Finding a cure for CHB remains a challenging task.DESIGN: In this study, poly I:C was employed as an adjuvant for HBV therapeutic vaccine (referred to as pHBV-vaccine) and the feasibility and efficiency of pHBV-vaccine in CHB treatment were evaluated in HBV-carrier mice.RESULTS: We found that pHBV-vaccine decreased HBsAg and HBV DNA efficiently and safely in HBV-carrier mice. Further investigation showed that pHBV-vaccine promoted maturation and antigen presentation ability of dendritic cells in vivo and in vitro. This vaccine successfully restored the exhaustion of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells and partly broke the immune tolerance established in HBV-carrier mice. pHBV-vaccine also enhanced the proliferation and polyfunctionality of HBV-specific CD11ahi CD8αlo cells. Importantly, we observed that T cell activation molecule KLRG1 was only expressed on HBV specific CD11ahi CD8αlo cells. Furthermore, pHBV-vaccine reduced the expression of Eomes and increased the serum IL-12 levels, which in turn promoted the generation of effector memory short-lived effector cells (SLECs) to exhibit a critical role in HBV clearance. SLECs induced by pHBV-vaccine might play a crucial role in protecting from HBV reinfection.CONCLUSIONS: Findings from this study provide a new basis for the development of therapeutic pHBV-vaccine, which might be a potential candidate for clinical CHB therapy.
Bone-resorbing osteoclasts (OCs) are derived from myeloid precursors (MPs). Several transcription factors are implicated in OC differentiation and function; however, their hierarchical architecture and interplay are not well known. Analysis for enriched motifs in PU.1 and MITF chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) data from differentiating OCs identified eomesodermin (EOMES) as a potential novel binding partner of PU.1 and MITF at genes critical for OC differentiation and function. We were able to demonstrate using co-immunoprecipitation and sequential ChIP analysis that PU.1, MITF, and EOMES are in the same complex and present as a complex at OC genomic loci. Furthermore, EOMES knockdown in MPs led to osteopetrosis associated with decreased OC differentiation and function both in vitro and in vivo. Although EOMES is associated with embryonic development and other hematopoietic lineages, this is the first study demonstrating the requirement of EOMES in the myeloid compartment.
Heterozygous de novo mutations in GATA6 are the most frequent cause of pancreatic agenesis in humans. In mice, however, a similar phenotype requires the biallelic loss of Gata6 and its paralog Gata4. To elaborate the human-specific requirements for GATA6, we chose to model GATA6 loss in vitro by combining both gene-edited and patient-derived pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) and directed differentiation toward β-like cells. We find that GATA6 heterozygous hPSCs show a modest reduction in definitive endoderm (DE) formation, while GATA6-null hPSCs fail to enter the DE lineage. Consistent with these results, genome-wide studies show that GATA6 binds and cooperates with EOMES/SMAD2/3 to regulate the expression of cardinal endoderm genes. The early deficit in DE is accompanied by a significant reduction in PDX1+ pancreatic progenitors and C-PEPTIDE+ β-like cells. Taken together, our data position GATA6 as a gatekeeper to early human, but not murine, pancreatic ontogeny.
Comment in    Gut. 2019 May;68(5):770-773.
Eomes, a T-box transcription factor, is known important for both function and homeostasis of effector and memory T cells, but was recently also implicated in CD8+ T cell exhaustion. However, whether and how Eomes might regulate effector functions or exhaustion of CD8+ T cells, especially in the tumor setting, is unknown. Here we first show, as tumor progressed, Eomes expression was elevated in tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells, especially in PD-1+Tim-3+ exhausted CD8+ T cells. Complete loss of Eomes in T cells resulted in impaired development of anti-tumor CTLs, whereas deletion of one allele of Eomes in T cells decreased development of exhausted CD8+ T cells, which offered better tumor control. Integrative analysis of RNAseq and ChIPseq of Eomes-overexpressing T cells revealed that high levels of Eomes expression directly controlled expression of T cell exhaustion genes, such as Havcr2. In addition, Eomes might compete with T-bet binding to regulatory genomic loci to antagonize T-bet functions. Collectively, Eomes exerts bimodal functions in CD8+ T cells in tumor.
BACKGROUND: Abundant evidence shows that triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is heterogeneous, and many efforts have been devoted to identifying TNBC subtypes on the basis of genomic profiling. However, few studies have explored the classification of TNBC specifically based on immune signatures that may facilitate the optimal stratification of TNBC patients responsive to immunotherapy.METHODS: Using four publicly available TNBC genomics datasets, we classified TNBC on the basis of the immunogenomic profiling of 29 immune signatures. Unsupervised and supervised machine learning methods were used to perform the classification.RESULTS: We identified three TNBC subtypes that we named Immunity High (Immunity_H), Immunity Medium (Immunity_M), and Immunity Low (Immunity_L) and demonstrated that this classification was reliable and predictable by analyzing multiple different datasets. Immunity_H was characterized by greater immune cell infiltration and anti-tumor immune activities, as well as better survival prognosis compared to the other subtypes. Besides the immune signatures, some cancer-associated pathways were hyperactivated in Immunity_H, including apoptosis, calcium signaling, MAPK signaling, PI3K-Akt signaling, and RAS signaling. In contrast, Immunity_L presented depressed immune signatures and increased activation of cell cycle, Hippo signaling, DNA replication, mismatch repair, cell adhesion molecule binding, spliceosome, adherens junction function, pyrimidine metabolism, glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor biosynthesis, and RNA polymerase pathways. Furthermore, we identified a gene co-expression subnetwork centered around five transcription factor (TF) genes (CORO1A, STAT4, BCL11B, ZNF831, and EOMES) specifically significant in the Immunity_H subtype and a subnetwork centered around two TF genes (IRF8 and SPI1) characteristic of the Immunity_L subtype.CONCLUSIONS: The identification of TNBC subtypes based on immune signatures has potential clinical implications for TNBC treatment.
Bound by transcription factors, DNA motifs (i.e. transcription factor binding sites) are prevalent and important for gene regulation in different tissues at different developmental stages of eukaryotes. Although considerable efforts have been made on elucidating monomeric DNA motif patterns, our knowledge on heterodimeric DNA motifs are still far from complete. Therefore, we propose to develop a computational approach to synthesize a heterodimeric DNA motif from two monomeric DNA motifs. The approach is sequentially divided into two components (Phases A and B). In Phase A, we propose to develop the inference models on how two DNA monomeric motifs can be oriented and overlapped with each other at nucleotide level. In Phase B, given the two monomeric DNA motifs oriented, we further propose to develop DNA-binding family-specific input-output hidden Markov models (IOHMMs) to synthesize a heterodimeric DNA motif. To validate the approach, we execute and cross-validate it with the experimentally verified 618 heterodimeric DNA motifs across 49 DNA-binding family combinations. We observe that our approach can even "rescue" the existing heterodimeric DNA motif pattern (i.e. HOXB2_EOMES) previously published on Nature. Lastly, we apply the proposed approach to infer previously uncharacterized heterodimeric motifs. Their motif instances are supported by DNase accessibility, gene ontology, protein-protein interactions, in vivo ChIP-seq peaks, and even structural data from PDB. A public web-server is built for open accessibility and scientific impact. Its address is listed as follows: http://motif.cs.cityu.edu.hk/custom/MotifKirin.
Eliciting highly functional CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses against a broad range of epitopes will likely be required for immunotherapeutic control of HIV-1 infection. However, the combination of CTL exhaustion and the ability of HIV-1 to rapidly establish CTL escape variants presents major hurdles toward this goal. Our previous work highlighted the use of monocyte-derived, mature, high-interleukin-12 (IL-12)-producing type 1 polarized dendritic cells (MDC1) to selectively induce more potent effector CTLs derived from naive, rather than memory, CD8+ T cell precursors isolated from HIV-1-positive participants in the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study. In this study, we report that these highly stimulatory antigen-presenting cells also express enhanced levels of the coinhibitory molecule programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), the ligand for PD-1, which is further upregulated upon subsequent stimulation with the CD4+ T helper cell-derived factor CD40L. Interestingly, blocking the PD-1 signaling pathway during MDC1 induction of HIV-1-specific CTL responses inhibited the priming, activation, and differentiation of naive CD8+ T cells into effector T cells expressing high levels of T-box transcription factor (T-bethi) and eomesodermin (Eomes+). In contrast, PD-1 blockade enhanced the overall magnitude of memory HIV-specific CTL responses and reversed the exhausted memory phenotype from a T-betlow/Eomes+ to a T-bethi/Eomes+ phenotype. These results indicate that the PD-L1/PD-1 signaling pathway has a previously unappreciated dual role in the induction and regulation of HIV-1-specific CTL immunity, which is greatly determined by the context and differentiation stage of the responsive CD8+ T cells.IMPORTANCE Targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint axis with signaling inhibitors has proven to be a powerful immunotherapeutic strategy to enhance the functional quality and survival of existing antigen-specific effector T cells. However, our study demonstrates that the context and timing of PD-1 signaling in T cells greatly impact the outcome of the effector response. In particular, we show that PD-1 activation plays a positive role during the DC-mediated initiation stage of the primary T cell response, while it serves as an inhibitory mechanism during the effector phase of the response. Therefore, caution should be taken in the design of therapies that include targeting of the PD-1/PD-L1 signaling pathway in order to avoid potential negative impacts on the induction of de novo T cell responses.
Comment on    Eur J Immunol. 2019 Jan;49(1):79-95.    Eur J Immunol. 2019 Jan;49(1):96-111.
The underlying mechanisms that regulate neonatal immune suppression are poorly characterized. CD31 (PECAM1) is highly expressed on neonatal lymphocytes and is a known modulator of TCR signaling. To further characterize the role of CD31 in the neonatal CTL response, 3-d and 7-d-old murine neonates were infected with influenza virus and compared to adults. The majority of the pulmonary viral-specific CTLs in the 3-d-old murine neonate retain CD31 expression, whereas adult CTLs have decreased CD31 expression. In addition, CD31+ neonatal viral-specific CTLs demonstrate decreased IFN-γ production, decreased proliferative capacity, and increased likelihood of death. At the peak of infection, sorted neonatal effector CTLs continue to transcribe CD31, indicating a developmental regulation of expression. To explore potential mechanisms for this reduced function, we compared the expression of the transcription factors Eomesodermin (Eomes) and T-bet; there was a significant increase in Eomes paired with a reduction in T-bet in CD31+ neonatal effector CTLs in the lung. Furthermore, in vitro stimulated neonatal CTLs significantly reduce IFN-γ production upon CD31 signaling. Altogether, these data indicate that neonatal CTLs may retain elevated levels of CD31 to maintain peripheral T cell suppression during the bridge to ex utero life.
CD8+ T cell differentiation is controlled by the transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin, in concert with the cytokines IL-2, IL-10 and IL-12. Among these pathways, the mechanisms by which T-box proteins and IL-10 interact to promote a memory T cell fate remain poorly understood. Here, we show that Eomes and IL-10 drive a central memory phenotype in murine CD8+ T cells. Eomes expression led to increased IL-10 expression by the effector CD8+ T cells themselves as well as an increase in the level of the lymph node homing selectin CD62L. Furthermore, exposure of effector CD8+ T cells to IL-10 maintained CD62L expression levels in culture. Thus, Eomes promotes a step-wise transition of effector T cells towards a memory phenotype, synergizing with IL-10 to enhance the expression of CD62L. The early augmentation of lymph node homing markers by Eomes may facilitate the retention of effector T cells in the relatively low inflammatory milieu of the secondary lymphoid organs that promotes central memory development.
In mice, trophoblast stem (TS) cells are derived from the polar trophectoderm of blastocysts. TS cells cultured in the presence of fibroblast growth factor 4 (Fgf4) are in an undifferentiated state and express undifferentiated marker genes such as Cdx2. After removing Fgf4 from the culture medium, TS cells drastically reduce the expression of undifferentiated marker genes, stop cell proliferation, and differentiate into all trophoblast cell subtypes. To clarify the roles of the parental genomes in placentation, we previously established TS cells from androgenetic embryos (AGTS cells). AGTS cells are in the undifferentiated state when cultured with Fgf4 and express undifferentiated marker genes. After removing Fgf4, AGTS cells differentiate into trophoblast giant cells (TGCs), but not into spongiotrophoblast cells, and some of the AGTS cells continue to proliferate. In this study, we investigated the differentiation potency of AGTS cells by analyzing the expression of undifferentiated marker genes and all trophoblast cell subtype-specific genes. After removing Fgf4, some undifferentiated marker genes (Cdx2, Eomes and Elf5) continued to be expressed. Interestingly, TGCs differentiated from AGTS cells also expressed Cdx2, but not Prl3d1. Moreover, the expression of Gcm1 and Synb was induced after the differentiation, indicating that AGTS cells preferentially differentiated into labyrinth progenitor cells. Cdx2 knockdown resulted in increased Prl3d1 expression, suggesting that Fgf4-independent Cdx2 expression inhibited the functional TGCs. Moreover, Fgf4-independent Cdx2 expression was activated by Gab1, one of the paternally expressed imprinted genes via the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)-extracellular signal regulated protein kinase (ERK) pathway. These results suggested that the paternal genome activates the MEK-ERK pathway without the Fgf4 signal, accelerates the differentiation into labyrinth progenitor cells and controls the function of TGCs.
Successful T-dependent humoral responses require the production of antibody-secreting plasmablasts, as well as the formation of germinal centers which eventually form high-affinity B cell memory. The ability of B cells to differentiate into germinal center and plasma cells, as well as the ability to tailor responses to different pathogens, is driven by transcription factors. In T cells, the T-box transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes) regulate effector and memory T cell differentiation, respectively. While T-bet has a critical role in regulating anti-viral B cell responses, a role for Eomes in B cells has yet to be described. We therefore investigated whether Eomes was required for B cell differentiation during either Th1 or Th2 cell-biased immune responses. Here, we demonstrate that deletion of Eomes specifically in B cells did not affect B cell differentiation in response to vaccination, as well as following viral or helminth infection. In contrast to its established role in CD8+ T cells, Eomes did not influence memory B cell differentiation. Finally, the use of an Eomes reporter mouse confirmed the lack of Eomes expression during immune responses. Thus, germinal center and plasma cell differentiation and the formation of isotype-switched memory B cells in response to infection are independent of Eomes expression.
Reserch progresses in understanding the pathogenicity of multiple sclerosis (MS) in the last couple of decade has enabled us to develop new drug entities available in the clinic. However, we still have not succeeded in preventing conversion from relapsing-remitting MS (RR-MS) to secondary progressive MS (SP-MS) and curing this intractable form of MS. Furthermore, diagnosis is usually retrospective and subjective, relying on gradual worsening of neurological signs/symptoms. This is obviously due to the lack of understanding for the pathogenicity driving disease progression in MS and of reliable biomarkers reflecting the progressive or stationary disease status. Two relevant components are involved in brain pathology of SP-MS, neurodegeneration and inflammation. Neurodegeneration may occur spontaneously in a neuron-intrinsic manner under chronic inflammation, such as glutamate excitotoxicity, mitochondrial/oxidative injury with iron deposit in the brain, and loss of trophic support. Meanwhile, inflammation is usually associated with recurrent relapse and the cumulative infiltration of immune cells, including T cells, B cells, and myeloid cells of peripheral or CNS origin, could ignite the processes of neurodegeneration. Especially, the higher frequency of leptomeningeal follicle-like structures observed in SP-MS patients suggests that immune cells sheltered behind a blood-brain barrier is still active under smoldering CNS inflammation. Recent successes in Ocrelizumab for primary progressive in MS (PP-MS) and Siponimod for SP-MS reappraised the importance of immune cells for pathogenesis progressive MS. Accordingly, our recent comparative analysis between MS and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), raises a new possibility that ectopic expression of eomesodermin (Eomes) in helper T (Th) cells constitutes a previously unappreciated subset of Th cells with cytotoxic potential against neuronal cells. In this review article, I will summarize the mechanisms proposed on pathogenesis of SP-MS and propose a new pathogenic mechanism for neurodegeneration mediated by unique cytotoxic Th cells.
Resident memory T cells (TRM) inhabit peripheral tissues and are critical for protection against localized infections. Recently, it has become evident that CD103+ TRM are not only important in combating secondary infections, but also for the elimination of tumor cells. In several solid cancers, intratumoral CD103+CD8+ tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), with TRM properties, are a positive prognostic marker. To better understand the role of TRM in tumors, we performed a detailed characterization of CD8+ and CD4+ TIL phenotype and functional properties in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Frequencies of CD8+ and CD4+ T cell infiltrates in tumors were comparable, but we observed a sharp contrast in TRM ratios compared to surrounding lung tissue. The majority of both CD4+ and CD8+ TILs expressed CD69 and a subset also expressed CD103, both hallmarks of TRM. While CD103+CD8+ T cells were enriched in tumors, CD103+CD4+ T cell frequencies were decreased compared to surrounding lung tissue. Furthermore, CD103+CD4+ and CD103+CD8+ TILs showed multiple characteristics of TRM, such as elevated expression of CXCR6 and CD49a, and decreased expression of T-bet and Eomes. In line with the immunomodulatory role of the tumor microenvironment, CD8+ and CD4+ TILs expressed high levels of inhibitory receptors 2B4, CTLA-4, and PD-1, with the highest levels found on CD103+ TILs. Strikingly, CD103+CD4+ TILs were the most potent producers of TNF-α and IFN-γ, while other TIL subsets lacked such cytokine production. Whereas, CD103+CD4+PD-1low TILs produced the most effector cytokines, CD103+CD4+PD-1++ and CD69+CD4+PD-1++ TILs produced CXCL13. Furthermore, a large proportion of TILs expressed co-stimulatory receptors CD27 and CD28, unlike lung TRM, suggesting a less differentiated phenotype. Agonistic triggering of these receptors improved cytokine production of CD103+CD4+ and CD69+CD8+ TILs. Our findings thus provide a rationale to target CD103+CD4+ TILs and add co-stimulation to current therapies to improve the efficacy of immunotherapies and cancer vaccines.
Despite burgeoning evidence demonstrating the adaptive properties of natural killer (NK) cells, mechanistic data explaining these phenomena are lacking. Following antibody sensitization, NK cells lacking the Fc receptor (FcR) signaling chain (Δg) acquire adaptive features, including robust proliferation, multifunctionality, rapid killing, and mobilization to sites of virus exposure. Using the rhesus macaque model, we demonstrate the systemic distribution of Δg NK cells expressing memory features, including downregulated Helios and Eomes. Furthermore, we find that Δg NK cells abandon typical γ-chain/Syk in lieu of CD3ζ-Zap70 signaling. FCγRIIIa (CD16) density, mucosal homing, and function are all coupled to this alternate signaling, which in itself requires priming by rhesus cytomegalovirus (rhCMV). Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections further expand gut-homing adaptive NK cells but result in pathogenic suppression of CD3ζ-Zap70 signaling and function. Herein, we provide a mechanism of virus-dependent alternative signaling that may explain the acquisition of adaptive features by primate NK cells and could be targeted for future vaccine or curative therapies.
Vitiligo is a chronic multifactorial depigmentation disorder characterized by the destruction and functional loss of melanocytes. Although a direct cytotoxic T cell attack is thought to be responsible for melanocyte damage, the events leading to the loss of self-tolerance toward melanocytic antigens are not understood. This research aimed to identify novel cellular and molecular factors that participate in vitiligo pathogenesis through the application of gene expression and immunofluorescence analysis of skin biopsy samples along with immunophenotyping of circulating cells. Our study provides insights into the mechanisms involved in melanocyte destruction. The upregulation of stress-ligand MICA/MICB, recognized by activating receptors on innate and innate-like T cells, imply involvement of lymphoid stress surveillance responses in vitiligo lesions. A simultaneous increase in the expression of transcription factor EOMES that is characteristic for innate-like virtual memory T cells, suggest a similar scenario. Local lymphoid stress surveillance has been previously associated with the amplification of systemic humoral responses that were mirrored in our study by increased T follicular helper cells and switched memory B cell proportions in patients with active vitiligo. In addition, microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 staining was compatible with the activation of autophagy in keratinocytes and in the remaining melanocytes of vitiligo lesional skin.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Innate lymphoid cells [ILC] have been suggested to play a role in inflammatory bowel disease [IBD]. Here, we investigated the ILC compartment in intestinal biopsies and blood from distinct patient groups with Crohn's disease [CD] and ulcerative colitis [UC], either newly diagnosed or with disease established for at least 1 year. This approach allowed us to simultaneously investigate temporal, disease-specific, and tissue-specific changes in ILC composition in IBD.METHODS: ILC subset frequencies, phenotype, and transcription factor profile in blood and intestinal biopsies were investigated by multi-parameter flow cytometry analysis. Endoscopic disease severity was judged using the ulcerative colitis endoscopic index of severity and the simple endoscopic score for Crohn's disease.RESULTS: The frequency of NKp44+ILC3 was decreased in inflamed tissue, both in patients with CD and those with UC, already at the time of diagnosis, and correlated with disease severity. Simultaneously, the frequency of ILC1 was increased in patients with CD, whereas the frequency of ILC2 was increased in patients with UC. However, in patients with established UC or CD, both ILC1 and ILC2 were increased. In contrast to the ILC composition in inflamed tissue, ILC in non-inflamed tissue or blood were unchanged compared with non-IBD controls. Finally, in patients undergoing treatment with an anti-α4β7 antibody the frequencies of ILC in peripheral blood remained unchanged.CONCLUSIONS: We report both shared and distinct changes in ILC composition depending on diagnosis and disease duration. The alterations in ILC composition in IBD occur selectively at inflamed sites in the gut.
OBJECTIVE: In order to refine new therapeutic strategies in the pipeline for HBV cure, evaluation of virological and immunological changes compartmentalised at the site of infection will be required. We therefore investigated if liver fine needle aspirates (FNAs) could comprehensively sample the local immune landscape in parallel with viable hepatocytes.DESIGN: Matched blood, liver biopsy and FNAs from 28 patients with HBV and 15 without viral infection were analysed using 16-colour multiparameter flow cytometry.RESULTS: The proportion of CD4 T, CD8 T, Mucosal Associated Invariant T cell (MAIT), Natural Killer (NK) and B cells identified by FNA correlated with that in liver biopsies from the same donors. Populations of Programmed Death-1 (PD-1)hiCD39hi tissue-resident memory CD8 T cells (CD69+CD103+) and liver-resident NK cells (CXCR6+T-betloEomeshi), were identified by both FNA and liver biopsy, and not seen in the blood. Crucially, HBV-specific T cells could be identified by FNAs at similar frequencies to biopsies and enriched compared with blood. FNAs could simultaneously identify populations of myeloid cells and live hepatocytes expressing albumin, Scavenger Receptor class B type 1 (SR-B1), Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1), whereas hepatocytes were poorly viable after the processing required for liver biopsies.CONCLUSION: We demonstrate for the first time that FNAs identify a range of intrahepatic immune cells including locally resident sentinel HBV-specific T cells and NK cells, together with PD-L1-expressing hepatocytes. In addition, we provide a scoring tool to estimate the extent to which an individual FNA has reliably sampled intrahepatic populations rather than contaminating blood. The broad profiling achieved by this less invasive, rapid technique makes it suitable for longitudinal monitoring of the liver to optimise new therapies for HBV.
T cells are key elements of cancer immunotherapy1 but certain fundamental properties, such as the development and migration of T cells within tumours, remain unknown. The enormous T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire, which is required for the recognition of foreign and self-antigens2, could serve as lineage tags to track these T cells in tumours3. Here we obtained transcriptomes of 11,138 single T cells from 12 patients with colorectal cancer, and developed single T cell analysis by RNA sequencing and TCR tracking (STARTRAC) indices to quantitatively analyse the dynamic relationships among 20 identified T cell subsets with distinct functions and clonalities. Although both CD8+ effector and 'exhausted' T cells exhibited high clonal expansion, they were independently connected with tumour-resident CD8+ effector memory cells, implicating a TCR-based fate decision. Of the CD4+ T cells, most tumour-infiltrating T regulatory (Treg) cells showed clonal exclusivity, whereas certain Treg cell clones were developmentally linked to several T helper (TH) cell clones. Notably, we identified two IFNG+ TH1-like cell clusters in tumours that were associated with distinct IFNγ-regulating transcription factors -the GZMK+ effector memory T cells, which were associated with EOMES and RUNX3, and CXCL13+BHLHE40+ TH1-like cell clusters, which were associated with BHLHE40. Only CXCL13+BHLHE40+ TH1-like cells were preferentially enriched in patients with microsatellite-instable tumours, and this might explain their favourable responses to immune-checkpoint blockade. Furthermore, IGFLR1 was highly expressed in both CXCL13+BHLHE40+ TH1-like cells and CD8+ exhausted T cells and possessed co-stimulatory functions. Our integrated STARTRAC analyses provide a powerful approach to dissect the T cell properties in colorectal cancer comprehensively, and could provide insights into the dynamic relationships of T cells in other cancers.
The metabolic checkpoint kinase mechanistic/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) regulates natural killer (NK) cell development and function, but the exact underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we show, via conditional deletion of Raptor (mTORC1) or Rictor (mTORC2), that mTORC1 and mTORC2 promote NK cell maturation in a cooperative and non-redundant manner, mainly by controlling the expression of Tbx21 and Eomes. Intriguingly, mTORC1 and mTORC2 regulate cytolytic function in an opposing way, exhibiting promoting and inhibitory effects on the anti-tumor ability and metabolism, respectively. mTORC1 sustains mTORC2 activity by maintaining CD122-mediated IL-15 signaling, whereas mTORC2 represses mTORC1-modulated NK cell effector functions by restraining STAT5-mediated SLC7A5 expression. These positive and negative crosstalks between mTORC1 and mTORC2 signaling thus variegate the magnitudes and kinetics of NK cell activation, and help define a paradigm for the modulation of NK maturation and effector functions.
Comment in    Eur J Immunol. 2019 Jan;49(1):38-41.
Lineage specification of the three germ layers occurs during early embryogenesis and is critical for normal development. The nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) complex is a repressive chromatin modifier that plays a role in lineage commitment. However, the role of chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 4 (CHD4), one of the core subunits of the NuRD complex, in neural lineage commitment is poorly understood. Here, we report that the CHD4/NuRD complex plays a critical role in neural differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs). We found that RNAi-mediated Chd4 knockdown suppresses neural differentiation, as did knockdown of methyl-CpG-binding domain protein Mbd3, another NuRD subunit. Chd4 and Mbd3 knockdowns similarly affected changes in global gene expression during neural differentiation and up-regulated several mesendodermal genes. However, inhibition of mesendodermal genes by knocking out the master regulators of mesendodermal lineages, Brachyury and Eomes, through a CRISPR/Cas9 approach could not restore the impaired neural differentiation caused by the Chd4 knockdown, suggesting that CHD4 controls neural differentiation by not repressing other lineage differentiation processes. Notably, Chd4 knockdown increased the acetylation levels of p53, resulting in increased protein levels of p53. Double knockdown of Chd4 and p53 restored the neural differentiation rate. Furthermore, overexpression of BCL2, a downstream factor of p53, partially rescued the impaired neural differentiation caused by the Chd4 knockdown. Our findings reveal that the CHD4/NuRD complex regulates neural differentiation of ESCs by down-regulating p53.
Tyrosin kinase inhibitors (TKI) sharply improved the prognosis of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) and of Philadelphia+ Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (Ph+ALL) patients. However, TKI are not curative because of the development of resistance and lack of complete molecular remission in the majority of patients. Clinical evidences would support the notion that patient's immune system may play a key role in preventing relapses. In particular, increased proportions of terminally differentiated CD56+CD16+CD57+ NK cells have been reported to be associated with successful Imatinib therapy discontinuation or with a deep molecular response in Dasatinib-treated patients. In view of the potential role of NK cells in immune-response against CML, it is important to study whether any TKI have an effect on the NK cell development and identify possible molecular mechanism(s) by which continuous exposure to in vitro TKI may influence NK cell development and repertoire. To this end, CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) were cultured in the absence or in the presence of Imatinib, Nilotinib, or Dasatinib. We show that all compounds exert an inhibitory effect on CD56+ cell recovery. In addition, Dasatinib sharply skewed the repertoire of CD56+ cell population, leading to an impaired recovery of CD56+CD117-CD16+CD94/NKG2A+EOMES+ mature cytotoxic NK cells, while the recovery of CD56+CD117+CD94/NKG2A-RORγt+ IL-22-producing ILC3 was not affected. This effect appears to involve the Dasatinib-mediated inhibition of Src kinases and, indirectly, of STAT5-signaling activation in CD34+ cells during first days of culture. Our studies, reveal a possible mechanism by which Dasatinib may interfere with the proliferation and maturation of fully competent NK cells, i.e., by targeting signaling pathways required for differentiation and survival of NK cells but not of ILC3.
Most tissues are populated by tissue-resident memory T cells (TRM cells), which are adapted to their niche and appear to be indispensable for local protection against pathogens. Here we show that human white matter-derived brain CD8+ T cells can be subsetted into CD103-CD69+ and CD103+CD69+ T cells both with a phenotypic and transcription factor profile consistent with TRM cells. Specifically, CD103 expression in brain CD8+ T cells correlates with reduced expression of differentiation markers, increased expression of tissue-homing chemokine receptors, intermediate and low expression of the transcription factors T-bet and eomes, increased expression of PD-1 and CTLA-4, and low expression of cytolytic enzymes with preserved polyfunctionality upon activation. Brain CD4+ T cells also display TRM cell-associated markers but have low CD103 expression. We conclude that the human brain is surveilled by TRM cells, providing protection against neurotropic virus reactivation, whilst being under tight control of key immune checkpoint molecules.
Determining the function of uterine lymphocytes is challenging because of the dynamic changes in response to sex hormones and, during pregnancy, to the invading foetal trophoblast cells. Here we provide a genome-wide transcriptome atlas of mouse uterine group 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) at mid-gestation. Tissue-resident Eomes+CD49a+ NK cells (trNK), which resemble human uterine NK cells, are most abundant during early pregnancy, and have gene signatures associated with TGF-β responses and interactions with trophoblast, epithelial, endothelial, smooth muscle cells, leucocytes and extracellular matrix. Conventional NK cells expand late in gestation and may engage in crosstalk with trNK cells involving IL-18 and IFN-γ. Eomes-CD49a+ ILC1s dominate before puberty, and specifically expand in second pregnancies when the expression of the memory cell marker CXCR6 is upregulated. These results identify trNK cells as the cellular hub of uterine group 1 ILCs, and mark CXCR6+ ILC1s as potential memory cells of pregnancy.
Recent studies have identified CD49a+Eomes- and CD49a+Eomes+ subsets of tissue-resident NK (trNK) cells in different organs of the mouse. However, the characteristics of CD49a+Eomes-/+ NK cell development and the regulation of Eomes expression in NK cells remain unclear. Here, we established an in vitro cytokine-based feeder-free system in which bone marrow progenitor cells differentiate into CD49a+ NK cells. IL-15 was identified as being the key cytokine in this system that supported the development and maintenance of CD49a+ NK cells. The CD49a+ NK cells generated were Eomes-CD49b- and shared the same phenotype as hepatic trNK cells. IL-4 induced the expression of Eomes in generated NK cells and converted them into CD49a+Eomes+ cells, which were phenotypically and functionally similar to uterine trNK cells. Moreover, the IL-4/STAT6 axis was identified as being important in the generation of CD49a+Eomes+ induced NK cells. Collectively, these studies describe an approach to generate CD49a+Eomes-/+ subsets of NK cells and demonstrate important roles for IL-15 and IL-4 in the differentiation of these cells. These findings have potential for developmental research underlying the generation of different subsets of NK cells and the application of adoptive NK cell transfer therapies.
A perturbed maternal metabolic environment such as chronically elevated circulating free fatty acids have been shown to affect stem cell fate during embryonic neurogenesis. However, molecular mechanisms behind this are not well defined, especially in human. Here in using directed differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) into cortical neurons as model, we show that chronically elevated saturated fatty acid (palmitate) results in decreased proliferation of neural stem cells and increased differentiation into neurons. This phenotype could be due to palmitate mediated increased expression of key genes needed for neuronal differentiation such as EOMES, TBR1, NEUROD1 and RELN and reduced expression of SREBP regulated lipogenic genes at early stages of cortical differentiation. Furthermore, palmitate treatment increased histone acetylation globally and at select gene promoters among affected genes. We also found differential expression of several lncRNAs associated with cellular stress and metabolic diseases in the presence of palmitate including BDNF-AS suggesting the contribution of additional epigenetic regulatory mechanisms. Together, our results show that saturated fatty acid affects developmental neurogenesis through modulation of gene expression and through epigenetic regulatory mechanisms.
Conventional local tumor irradiation (LTI), delivered in small daily doses over several weeks, is used clinically as a palliative, rather than curative, treatment for chemotherapy-resistant diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) for patients who are ineligible for hematopoietic cell transplantation. Our goal was to test the hypothesis that accelerated, but not conventional, LTI would be more curative by inducing T cell-mediated durable remissions. We irradiated subcutaneous A20 and BL3750 lymphoma tumors in mice with a clinically relevant total radiation dose of 30 Gy LTI, delivered in 10 doses of 3 Gy over 4 days (accelerated irradiation) or as 10 doses of 3 Gy over 12 days (conventional irradiation). Compared with conventional LTI, accelerated LTI resulted in more complete and durable tumor remissions. The majority of these mice were resistant to rechallenge with lymphoma cells, demonstrating the induction of memory antitumor immunity. The increased efficacy of accelerated LTI correlated with higher levels of tumor cell necrosis vs apoptosis and expression of "immunogenic cell death" markers, including calreticulin, heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70), and Hsp90. Accelerated LTI-induced remissions were not seen in immunodeficient Rag-2 -/- mice, CD8+ T-cell-depleted mice, or Batf-3 -/- mice lacking CD8α+ and CD103+ dendritic cells. Accelerated, but not conventional, LTI in immunocompetent hosts induced marked increases in tumor-infiltrating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and MHCII+CD103+CD11c+ dendritic cells and corresponding reductions in exhausted PD-1+Eomes+CD8+ T cells and CD4+CD25+FOXP3+ regulatory T cells. These findings raise the possibility that accelerated LTI can provide effective immune control of human DLBCL.
Trophoblast stem cells (TSCs), which can be derived from the trophoectoderm of a blastocyst, have the ability to sustain self-renewal and differentiate into various placental trophoblast cell types. Meanwhile, essential insights into the molecular mechanisms controlling the placental development can be gained by using TSCs as the cell model. Esrrb is a transcription factor that has been shown to play pivotal roles in both embryonic stem cell (ESC) and TSC, but the precise mechanism whereby Esrrb regulates TSC-specific transcriptome during differentiation and reprogramming is still largely unknown. In the present study, we elucidate the function of Esrrb in self-renewal and differentiation of TSCs, as well as during the induced TSC (iTSC) reprogramming. We demonstrate that the precise level of Esrrb is critical for stem state maintenance and further trophoblast differentiation of TSCs, as ectopically expressed Esrrb can partially block the rapid differentiation of TSCs in the absence of fibroblast growth factor 4. However, Esrrb depletion results in downregulation of certain key TSC-specific transcription factors, consequently causing a rapid differentiation of TSCs and these Esrrb-deficient TSCs lose the ability of hemorrhagic lesion formation in vivo. This function of Esrrb is exerted by directly binding and activating a core set of TSC-specific target genes including Cdx2, Eomes, Sox2, Fgfr4, and Bmp4. Furthermore, we show that Esrrb overexpression can facilitate the MEF-to-iTSC conversion. Moreover, Esrrb can substitute for Eomes to generate GEsTM-iTSCs. Thus, our findings provide a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of Esrrb in maintaining TSC self-renewal and during iTSC reprogramming.
Zic3 encodes a zinc finger protein essential for the development of meso-ectodermal tissues. In mammals, Zic3 has important roles in the development of neural tube, axial skeletons, left-right body axis, and in maintaining pluripotency of ES cells. Here we characterized cis-regulatory elements required for Zic3 expression. Enhancer activities of human-chicken-conserved noncoding sequences around Zic1 and Zic3 were screened using chick whole-embryo electroporation. We identified enhancers for meso-ectodermal tissues. Among them, a mesodermal enhancer (Zic3-ME) in distant 3' flanking showed robust enhancement of reporter gene expression in the mesodermal tissue of chicken and mouse embryos, and was required for mesodermal Zic3 expression in mice. Zic3-ME minimal core region is included in the DNase hypersensitive region of ES cells, mesoderm, and neural progenitors, and was bound by T (Brachyury), Eomes, Lef1, Nanog, Oct4, and Zic2. Zic3-ME is derived from an ancestral sequence shared with a sequence encoding a mitochondrial enzyme. These results indicate that Zic3-ME is an integrated cis-regulatory element essential for the proper expression of Zic3 in vertebrates, serving as a hub for a gene regulatory network including Zic3.
Memory T cell (Tmem) responses play a critical role in the outcome of allo-transplantation. While the role of the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) in the maintenance of antigen-specific Tmem is well studied, little is known about Eomes+ CD8+ T cell responses after transplantation. We evaluated the phenotype and function of allo-reactive Eomes+ CD8+ T cells in healthy volunteers and kidney transplant patients and their relation to transplant outcome. High Eomes expression by steady-state CD8+ T cells correlated with effector and memory phenotype. Following allo-stimulation, the expression of both the T-box proteins Eomes and T-bet by proliferating cells increased significantly, where high expression of Eomes and T-bet correlated with higher incidence of allo-stimulated IFNγ+ TNFα+ CD8+ T cells. In patients with no subsequent rejection, Eomes but not T-bet expression by donor-stimulated CD8+ T cells, increased significantly after transplantation. This was characterized by increased Eomeshi T-bet-/lo and decreased Eomes-/lo T-bethi CD8+ T cell subsets, with no significant changes in the Eomeshi T-bethi CD8+ T cell subset. No upregulation of exhaustion markers programmed-death-1 (PD-1) and cytotoxic-T-lymphocyte-associated-antigen-4 (CTLA4) by donor-stimulated Eomes+ CD8+ T cells was observed. Before transplantation, in patients without rejection, there were higher incidences of Eomeshi T-bet-/lo , and lower incidences of Eomeshi T-bethi and Eomes-/lo T-bethi donor-stimulated CD8+ T cell subsets, compared to those with subsequent rejection. Overall, our findings indicate that high Eomes expression by allo-stimulated T-bet+ CD8+ T cells is associated with enhanced effector function, and that an elevated incidence of donor-stimulated CD8+ T cells co-expressing high levels of Eomes and T-bet before transplantation, may correlate with an increased incidence of acute cellular rejection.
DNA methylation-based biomarkers were suggested to be promising for early cancer diagnosis. However, DNA methylation-based biomarkers for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), especially in Chinese Han populations have not been identified and evaluated quantitatively. Candidate tumor suppressor genes (N = 65) were selected through literature searching and four public high-throughput DNA methylation microarray datasets including 136 samples totally were collected for initial confirmation. Targeted bisulfite sequencing was applied in an independent cohort of 94 pairs of ESCC and normal tissues from a Chinese Han population for eventual validation. We applied nine different classification algorithms for the prediction to evaluate to the prediction performance. ADHFE1, EOMES, SALL1 and TFPI2 were identified and validated in the ESCC samples from a Chinese Han population. All four candidate regions were validated to be significantly hyper-methylated in ESCC samples through Wilcoxon rank-sum test (ADHFE1, P = 1.7 × 10-3; EOMES, P = 2.9 × 10-9; SALL1, P = 3.9 × 10-7; TFPI2, p = 3.4 × 10-6). Logistic regression based prediction model shown a moderately ESCC classification performance (Sensitivity = 66%, Specificity = 87%, AUC = 0.81). Moreover, advanced classification method had better performances (random forest and naive Bayes). Interestingly, the diagnostic performance could be improved in non-alcohol use subgroup (AUC = 0.84). In conclusion, our data demonstrate the methylation panel of ADHFE1, EOMES, SALL1 and TFPI2 could be an effective methylation-based diagnostic assay for ESCC.
As classical therapy method of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is not effective enough, HCC immunotherapy is a hot spot for research in recent years. Although in recent years, immune checkpoint inhibitors are focused in cancer therapy, vaccines and adoptive cell therapy (ACT), as traditional immunotherapy methods for HCC are still promising. We found that δ-Catenin might be a new tumor-associated antigen for HCC, for it could be upregulated as a stress associated protein under hypoxia and irradiation treatment. δ-Catenin peptide vaccines could inhibit the growth of subcutaneous hepatocellular tumors in vivo. According to our work, δ-Catenin peptide vaccines could stimulate the activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and enhance the infiltration of CD8+ T cells into tumors. Moreover, δ-Catenin peptide vaccines could enhance the secretion of IFN-γ and the killing of tumor cells by T cells. Mechanistically, δ-Catenin peptide vaccines, presented by antigen-presenting cells to T cells, could enhance the activation of T cells via MAPK/ERK signaling and the transcriptional factors Eomes and T-bet. Our research results indicate new potential peptide vaccines, which can be applied in clinical HCC therapy.
Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is a common complication of prematurity in infants born at 23-28 weeks of gestation. Survivors exhibit impaired growth of the cerebral cortex and neurodevelopmental sequeale, but the underlying mechanism(s) are obscure. Previously, we have shown that neocortical neurogenesis continues until at least 28 gestational weeks. This renders the prematurely born infants vulnerable to impaired neurogenesis. Here, we hypothesized that neurogenesis is impaired by IVH, and that signaling through GSK3β, a critical intracellular kinase regulated by Wnt and other pathways, mediates this effect. These hypotheses were tested observationally in autopsy specimens from premature infants, and experimentally in a premature rabbit IVH model. Significantly, in premature infants with IVH, the number of neurogenic cortical progenitor cells was reduced compared with infants without IVH, indicating acutely decreased neurogenesis. This finding was corroborated in the rabbit IVH model, which further demonstrated reduction of upper layer cortical neurons after longer survival. Both the acute reduction of neurogenic progenitors, and the subsequent decrease of upper layer neurons, were rescued by treatment with AR-A014418, a specific inhibitor of GSK3β. Together, these results indicate that IVH impairs late stages of cortical neurogenesis, and suggest that treatment with GSK3β inhibitors may enhance neurodevelopment in premature infants with IVH.
Human lymphoid tissues harbor, in addition to CD56bright and CD56dim natural killer (NK) cells, a third NK cell population: CD69+CXCR6+ lymphoid tissue (lt)NK cells. The function and development of ltNK cells remain poorly understood. In this study, we performed RNA sequencing on the three NK cell populations derived from bone marrow (BM) and blood. In ltNK cells, 1,353 genes were differentially expressed compared to circulating NK cells. Several molecules involved in migration were downregulated in ltNK cells: S1PR1, SELPLG and CD62L. By flow cytometry we confirmed that the expression profile of adhesion molecules (CD49e-, CD29low, CD81high, CD62L-, CD11c-) and transcription factors (Eomeshigh, Tbetlow) of ltNK cells differed from their circulating counterparts. LtNK cells were characterized by enhanced expression of inhibitory receptors TIGIT and CD96 and low expression of DNAM1 and cytolytic molecules (GZMB, GZMH, GNLY). Their proliferative capacity was reduced compared to the circulating NK cells. By performing gene set enrichment analysis, we identified DUSP6 and EGR2 as potential regulators of the ltNK cell transcriptome. Remarkably, comparison of the ltNK cell transcriptome to the published human spleen-resident memory CD8+ T (Trm) cell transcriptome revealed an overlapping gene signature. Moreover, the phenotypic profile of ltNK cells resembled that of CD8+ Trm cells in BM. Together, we provide transcriptional and phenotypic data that clearly distinguish ltNK cells from both the CD56bright and CD56dim NK cells and substantiate the view that ltNK cells are tissue-resident cells, which are functionally restrained in killing and have low proliferative activity.
CD8+ T lymphocytes are the major anti-tumor effector cells. Most cancer immunotherapeutic approaches seek to amplify cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) specific to malignant cells. A recently identified subpopulation of memory CD8+ T cells, named tissue-resident memory T (TRM) cells, persists in peripheral tissues and does not recirculate. This T-cell subset is considered an independent memory T-cell lineage with a specific profile of transcription factors, including Runx3+, Notch+, Hobit+, Blimp1+, BATF+, AHR+, EOMESneg and Tbetlow. It is defined by expression of CD103 (αE(CD103)β7) and CD49a (VLA-1 or α1β1) integrins and C-type lectin CD69, which are most likely involved in retention of TRM cells in non-lymphoid tissues, including solid tumors. CD103 binds to the epithelial cell marker E-cadherin, thereby favoring the location and retention of TRM in epithelial tumor regions in close contact with malignant cells. The CD103-E-cadherin interaction is required for polarized exocytosis of lytic granules, in particular, when ICAM-1 expression on cancer cells is missing, leading to target cell death. TRM cells also express high levels of granzyme B, IFNγ and TNFα, supporting their cytotoxic features. Moreover, the local route of immunization targeting tissue dendritic cells (DC), and the presence of environmental factors (i.e. TGF-β, IL-33 and IL-15), promote differentiation of this T-cell subtype. In both spontaneous tumor models and engrafted tumors, natural TRM cells or cancer-vaccine-induced TRM directly control tumor growth. In line with these results, TRM infiltration into various human cancers, including lung cancer, are correlated with better clinical outcome in both univariate and multivariate analyses independently of CD8+ T cells. TRM cells also predominantly express checkpoint receptors such as PD-1, CTLA-4 and Tim-3. Blockade of PD-1 with neutralizing antibodies on TRM cells isolated from human lung cancer promotes cytolytic activity toward autologous tumor cells. Thus, TRM cells appear to represent important components in tumor immune surveillance. Their induction by cancer vaccines or other immunotherapeutic approaches may be critical for the success of these treatments. Several arguments, such as their close contact with tumor cells, dominant expression of checkpoint receptors and their recognition of cancer cells, strongly suggest that they may be involved in the success of immune checkpoint inhibitors in various cancers.
Characterization of CD8+ T cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME) is important to predict responses to checkpoint therapy. The TME in multiple myeloma is the bone marrow, which also is an immune organ where immune responses are generated and memory cells stored. The presence of T cells with other specificities than the tumor in the bone marrow may affect the search for biomarkers to predict responses to immunotherapy in myeloma. Here, we found similar proportions of PD1+ CD8+ T cells and similar levels of PD1 expression on CD8+ T cells in the bone marrow of myeloma patients and healthy controls. PD1 expression on CD8+ T cells did not correlate with tumor load suggesting that at least some of the PD1+ CD8+ T cells were specific for non-myeloma antigens. Indeed, PD1+ EBV-specific CD8+ T cells were detected it the bone marrow of patients. Terminal effectors (Teff), effector memory (Tem) and central memory (Tcm) cells as well as exhausted T cells were all found in the myeloma bone marrow. However, myeloma patients had more terminal effectors and fewer memory cells than healthy controls suggesting that the tumor generate an immune response against myeloma cells in the bone marrow. The presence of CD8 EOMEShigh Tbetlow T cells with intermediate levels of PD1 in myeloma patients suggests that T cell types, that are known to be responsive to checkpoint therapy, are found at the tumor site.
Comment in    Eur J Immunol. 2019 Jan;49(1):38-41.
Peripheral CD4/CD8 double-positive (DP) T cells are associated with autoimmune disorders, cancer, and viral infection. However, the relationship between organ transplantation and DP T cells is unclear. Here, we examined the functional characteristics of peripheral DP T cells and analyzed their significance with respect to islet graft rejection in a nonhuman primate model of islet transplantation. DP T cells were functionally equivalent to conventional CD4 and CD8 T cells in terms of helper and cytotoxic activity, respectively. DP T cells expressed high levels of CXCR5 and PD-1 and secreted IFN-γ, IL-4, and IL-21 in amounts equivalent to those secreted by CD4 or CD8 T cells; also, they produced large amounts of granzyme B and perforin. In addition, under steady-state conditions, DP T cells expressed eomesodermin (Eomes) and promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger (PLZF) proteins, both of which act as transcription factors in innate/memory-like T cells. The number of peripheral DP T cells in the islet transplantation model was high in the group that experienced graft rejection; this was not the case in the long-term survival group. Interestingly, numbers of effector memory T cells (TEM) within the DP T cell population increased significantly during islet graft rejection, as did those of TEM within the cytotoxic CD8 T cells. Furthermore, the most conspicuous of which was the increase of CD4hiCD8low T cell subpopulation at that point. Taken together, the data suggest that peripheral DP T cells showing an innate/memory-like phenotype have both helper and cytotoxic activity in vitro and that they may act as a novel biomarker for graft rejection after islet transplantation.
Histone deacetylases (HDAC) are one of the key epigenetic modifiers that control chromatin accessibility and gene expression. Their role in tumorigenesis is well established and HDAC inhibitors have emerged as an effective treatment modality. HDAC inhibitors have been investigated for their specific antitumor activities and also clinically evaluated in treatment of various malignancies. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of HDAC inhibitors on the effector functions of human γδ T cells. HDAC inhibitors inhibit the antigen-specific proliferative response of γδ T cells and cell cycle progression. In antigen-activated γδ T cells, the expression of transcription factors (Eomes and Tbet) and effector molecules (perforin and granzyme B) were decreased upon treatment with HDAC inhibitors. Treatment with HDAC inhibitors attenuated the antitumor cytotoxic potential of γδ T cells, which correlated with the enhanced expression of immune checkpoints programmed death-1 (PD-1) and programmed death ligand-1 in γδ T cells. Interestingly, PD-1 blockade improves the antitumor effector functions of HDAC inhibitor-treated γδ T cells, which is reflected in the increased expression of Granzyme B and Lamp-1. This study provides a rationale for designing HDAC inhibitor and immune check point blockade as a combinatorial treatment modality for cancer.
Mouse lines selectively bred for high voluntary wheel-running behavior are helpful models for uncovering gene networks associated with increased motivation for physical activity and other reward-dependent behaviors. The fact that multiple brain regions are hypothesized to contribute to distinct behavior components necessitates the simultaneous study of these regions. The goals of this study were to identify brain-region dependent and independent gene expression patterns, regulators, and networks associated with increased voluntary wheel-running behavior. The cerebellum and striatum from a high voluntary running line and a non-selected control line were compared. Neuropeptide genes annotated to reward-dependent processes including neuropeptide S receptor 1 (Npsr1), neuropeptide Y (Npy), and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (Pcsk9), and genes implicated in motor coordination including vitamin D receptor (Vdr) and keratin, type I cytoskeletal 25 (Krt25) were among the genes exhibiting activity line-by-region interaction effects. Genes annotated to the Parkinson pathway presented consistent line patterns, albeit at different orders of magnitude between brain regions, suggesting some parallel events in response to selection for high voluntary activity. The comparison of gene networks between brain regions highlighted genes including transcription factor AP-2-delta (Tfap2d), distal-less homeobox 5 gene (Dlx5) and sine oculis homeobox homolog 3 (Six3) that exhibited line differential expression in one brain region and are associated with reward-dependent behaviors. Transcription factors including En2, Stat6 and Eomes predominated among regulators of genes that differed in expression between lines. Results from the simultaneous study of striatum and cerebellum confirm the necessity to study molecular mechanisms associated with voluntary activity and reward-dependent behaviors in consideration of brain region dependencies.
Fungal infections in CD4+ T cell immunocompromised patients have risen sharply in recent years. Although vaccines offer a rational avenue to prevent infections, there are no licensed fungal vaccines available. Inactivated vaccines are safer but less efficacious and require adjuvants that may undesirably bias toward poor protective immune responses. We hypothesized that reducing the TCR signaling threshold could potentiate antifungal CD8+ T cell responses and immunity to inactivated vaccine in the absence of CD4+ T cells. In this study, we show that CBLB, a negative regulator of TCR signaling, suppresses CD8+ T cells in response to inactivated fungal vaccination in a mouse model of CD4+ T cell lymphopenia. Conversely, Cblb deficiency enhanced both the type 1 (e.g., IFN-γ) and type 17 (IL-17A) CD8+ T cell responses to inactivated fungal vaccines and augmented vaccine immunity to lethal fungal pneumonia. Furthermore, we show that immunization with live or inactivated vaccine yeast did not cause detectable pathologic condition in Cblb-/- mice. Augmented CD8+ T cell responses in the absence of CBLB also did not lead to terminal differentiation or adversely affect the expression of transcription factors T-bet, Eomes, and RORγt. Additionally, our adoptive transfer experiments showed that CBLB impedes the effector CD8+ T cell responses in a cell-intrinsic manner. Finally, we showed that ablation of Cblb overcomes the requirement of HIF-1α for expansion of CD8+ T cells upon vaccination. Thus, adjuvants that target CBLB may augment inactivated vaccines and immunity against systemic fungal infections in vulnerable patients.
Both adjuvants and focal ablation can alter the local innate immune system and trigger a highly effective systemic response. Our goal is to determine the impact of these treatments on directly treated and distant disease and the mechanisms for the enhanced response obtained by combinatorial treatments. Methods: We combined RNA-sequencing, flow cytometry and TCR-sequencing to dissect the impact of immunotherapy and of immunotherapy combined with ablation on local and systemic immune components. Results: With administration of a toll-like receptor agonist agonist (CpG) alone or CpG combined with same-site ablation, we found dramatic differences between the local and distant tumor environments, where the directly treated tumors were skewed to high expression of F4/80, Cd11b and Tnf and the distant tumors to enhanced Cd11c, Cd3 and Ifng. When ablation was added to immunotherapy, 100% (n=20/20) of directly treated tumors and 90% (n=18/20) of distant tumors were responsive. Comparing the combined ablation-immunotherapy treatment to immunotherapy alone, we find three major mechanistic differences. First, while ablation alone enhanced intratumoral antigen cross-presentation (up to ~8% of CD45+ cells), systemic cross-presentation of tumor antigen remained low. Combining same-site ablation with CpG amplified cross-presentation in the draining lymph node (~16% of CD45+ cells) compared to the ablation-only (~0.1% of CD45+ cells) and immunotherapy-only cohorts (~10% of CD45+ cells). Macrophages and DCs process and present this antigen to CD8+ T-cells, increasing the number of unique T-cell receptor rearrangements in distant tumors. Second, type I interferon (IFN) release from tumor cells increased with the ablation-immunotherapy treatment as compared with ablation or immunotherapy alone. Type I IFN release is synergistic with toll-like receptor activation in enhancing cytokine and chemokine expression. Expression of genes associated with T-cell activation and stimulation (Eomes, Prf1 and Icos) was 27, 56 and 89-fold higher with ablation-immunotherapy treatment as compared to the no-treatment controls (and 12, 32 and 60-fold higher for immunotherapy-only treatment as compared to the no-treatment controls). Third, we found that the ablation-immunotherapy treatment polarized macrophages and dendritic cells towards a CD169 subset systemically, where CD169+ macrophages are an IFN-enhanced subpopulation associated with dead-cell antigen presentation. Conclusion: While the local and distant responses are distinct, CpG combined with ablative focal therapy drives a highly effective systemic immune response.
In this study, we investigated the role of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in antitumor immune responses. We report that the concentration of secreted Wnt3a was significantly higher in conditioned medium from tumor or nontumor tissues obtained from all hepatocellular carcinoma or colorectal cancer patients tested, than in serum of healthy donors or patients. In addition, both Wnt3a and β-catenin were overexpressed by tumor-infiltrating and nontumor-infiltrating CD4+ or CD8+ T cells. The majority of these T cells expressed a dysfunctional effector memory Eomes+T-bet-phenotype that we defined as partially exhausted, because they performed effector functions (in terms of interferon-γ and tumor necrosis factor-α production, as well as CD107a mobilization) despite their PD-1 expression. Wnt3a/β-catenin signaling in T naïve cells in vitro recapitulated the T-cell setting in vivo Indeed, the differentiation of cultured T naïve cells was arrested, producing cells that resembled the EomeshighT-betlowβ-cateninhigh T cells with moderate effector functions that infiltrated tumor and nontumor areas. Wnt3a blockade improved the capacity of T naïve cells to differentiate into effector cells in vitro However, Wnt3a blockade did not affect the function and phenotype of differentiated, partially exhausted, tumor-infiltrating T cells ex vivo Taken together, our data suggest that Wnt3a blockade halts the capacity of Wnt/β-catenin signaling to inhibit the differentiation of T naïve cells, but it does not restore the dysfunction of differentiated T cells, in the tumor setting. Cancer Immunol Res; 6(8); 941-52. ©2018 AACR.
In this study, we investigated whether CD161+CD4+ T cells can reflect the Th17 pathway in kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) and investigated the clinical significance of this cell type in chronic antibody-mediated rejection (cAMR) in KT. First, we investigated the relationship between CD161+CD4+ T and Th17 cells by flow cytometry and microarray analysis in an in vitro study. Second, we compared the proportion of T cell subsets including CD161+CD4+ T cells in cAMR (n = 18), long-term graft survival (LTGS) (n = 46), and interstitial fibrosis/tubular atrophy (IF/TA) (n = 22). We compared CD161+ cell infiltration between cAMR and IF/TA and also examined the effect of CD161+ T cells on human renal proximal tubular epithelial cells (HRPTEpiC). In flow cytometry, the proportion of CD161+CD4+ T cells showed a significant correlation with the proportion of Th17 cells. In microarray analysis, transcripts associated with the Th17 pathway such as IL18RAP, IL-18R1, IL23R, IL12RB2, RORC, TBX21, and EOMES were upregulated in CD161+ cells compared with CD161- cells. In an ex vivo study, only CD161+CD4+ T cells showed a significant increase in the cAMR group compared with IF/TA and LTGS groups. In allograft tissue, CD161+ cells showed a higher level of infiltration in the cAMR group than the IF/TA group. Lastly, CD161+ T cells increased the production of inflammatory cytokines from HRPTEpiC in a dose-dependent manner. This study suggests that monitoring of CD161+ T cells can be useful to detect the progression of cAMR.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2018 Aug;18(8):479.
Effector CD8+ T cells generally produce type-1 cytokines and mediators of the perforin/granzyme cytolytic pathway, yet type-2-polarized CD8+ cells (Tc2) are detected in type-2 (T2) cytokine-driven diseases such as asthma. It is unclear whether T2 cytokine exposure during activation is sufficient to polarize human CD8+ T cells. To address this question, a protocol was developed for high-efficiency activation of human CD8+ T cells in which purified single cells or populations were stimulated with plate-bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD11a mAb for up to 8 days in T2 polarizing or neutral conditions, before functional analysis. Activation of CD8+ naïve T cells (TN) in T2 compared with neutral conditions decreased the size of single-cell clones, although early division kinetics were equivalent, indicating an effect on overall division number. Activation of TN in T2 conditions followed by brief anti-CD3 mAb restimulation favored expression of T2 cytokines, GATA3 and Eomes, and lowered expression of type-1 cytokines, Prf1, Gzmb, T-BET, and Prdm1. However, IL-4 was only weakly expressed, and PMA and ionomycin restimulation favored IFN-γ over IL-4 expression. Activation of TN in T2 compared with neutral conditions prevented downregulation of costimulatory (CD27, CD28) and lymph-node homing receptors (CCR7) and CD95 acquisition, which typically occur during differentiation into effector phenotypes. CD3 was rapidly and substantially induced after activation in neutral, but not T2 conditions, potentially contributing to greater division and differentiation in neutral conditions. CD8+ central memory T cells (TCM) were less able to enter division upon reactivation in T2 compared with neutral conditions, and were more refractory to modulating IFN-γ and IL-4 production than CD8+ TN. In summary, while activation of TN in T2 conditions can generate T2 cytokine-biased cells, IL-4 expression is weak, T2 bias is lost upon strong restimulation, differentiation, and division are arrested, and reactivation of TCM is reduced in T2 conditions. Taken together, this suggests that exposure to T2 cytokines during activation may not be sufficient to generate and retain human Tc2 cells.
Initial embryological development in avian species, consisting of cleavage and area pellucida formation, occurs prior to oviposition. In chickens, the first lineage segregation is known to occur during the last 10 hours of intrauterine development, a finding which has primarily been identified on the basis of morphological perspectives. We traced the early expression of the transcription factors NANOG, POUV and EOMES at Eyal-Giladi and Kochav (EGK) stages VI through X using in situ hybridization. At EGK.VI, NANOG and EOMES were heterogeneously expressed in a salt-and-pepper manner. From EGK.VIII to EGK.X, NANOG- or EOMES-positive cells were predominantly located in the epiblast or area opaca regions, respectively. POUV-expressing cells were found in the upper layer at EGK.VIII. After oviposition, POUV mRNA was strongly expressed in the epiblast, but weakly expressed in the hypoblast at EGK.X. Furthermore, NANOG- and POUV-negative cells were located in the subgerminal cavity where layer reduction occurs during area pellucida formation. Those cells were larger and did not seem to contribute to epithelialization until EGK.X. Our results on the spatiotemporal expression of transcription factors contribute to a greater understanding of the dynamic process of intrauterine development in chickens.
BACKGROUND: End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is associated with an increased susceptibility to infectious diseases, including infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells recognize vitamin B metabolites produced by many bacterial species, including Mtb, and may play an important role in providing protective immunity against tuberculosis infection in the lung. To date, little is known about MAIT cell frequency, phenotype, or function in ESRD patients.METHODS: MAIT cells, identified by surface marker expression or MR1 tetramer binding, were characterized in 20 ESRD and 20 healthy control participants by multicolor flow cytometry. Ex vivo MAIT cell phenotype and cytokine production following PMA/ionomycin, IL-12/IL-18, or Escherichia coli stimulation were determined. Monocyte phenotype and plasma C-reactive protein/inflammatory cytokine levels were quantified by flow cytometry, ELISA, and multiplex bead array.RESULTS: Peripheral blood MAIT cells were significantly depleted among ESRD patients compared to controls by both phenotypic and tetramer analysis and exhibited a loss of CXCR3 expression coupled to increased expression of CCR6 and CXCR6. ESRD was also associated with a shift in MAIT PMA-induced cytokine production away from IFNγ production and toward granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) secretion, and a loss of E. coli-stimulated tumor necrosis factor α expression. Loss of IFNγ expression was associated with a combination of age, alterations in Tbet and Eomes expression, and inflammatory plasma cytokine levels.CONCLUSION: The loss of peripheral blood MAIT cells and associated shifts in tissue homing receptor expression and GM-CSF production may contribute to an immune environment that is permissive to bacterial replication, particularly in the lungs.
Comment on    Cell Stem Cell. 2018 Jun 1;22(6):893-908.e6.
β‑catenin/CTNNB1 is an intracellular scaffold protein that interacts with adhesion molecules (E‑cadherin/CDH1, N‑cadherin/CDH2, VE‑cadherin/CDH5 and α‑catenins), transmembrane‑type mucins (MUC1/CD227 and MUC16/CA125), signaling regulators (APC, AXIN1, AXIN2 and NHERF1/EBP50) and epigenetic or transcriptional regulators (BCL9, BCL9L, CREBBP/CBP, EP300/p300, FOXM1, MED12, SMARCA4/BRG1 and TCF/LEF). Gain‑of‑function CTTNB1 mutations are detected in bladder cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and uterine cancer, whereas loss‑of‑function CTNNB1 mutations are also detected in human cancer. ABCB1, ALDH1A1, ASCL2, ATF3, AXIN2, BAMBI, CCND1, CD44, CLDN1, CTLA4, DKK1, EDN1, EOMES, FGF18, FGF20, FZD7, IL10, JAG1, LEF1, LGR5, MITF, MSX1, MYC, NEUROD1, NKD1, NODAL, NOTCH2, NOTUM, NRCAM, OPN, PAX3, PPARD, PTGS2, RNF43, SNAI1, SP5, TCF7, TERT, TNFRSF19, VEGFA and ZNRF3 are representative β‑catenin target genes. β‑catenin signaling is involved in myofibroblast activation and subsequent pulmonary fibrosis, in addition to other types of fibrosis. β‑catenin and NF‑κB signaling activation are involved in field cancerization in the stomach associated with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection and in the liver associated with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and other etiologies. β‑catenin‑targeted therapeutics are functionally classified into β‑catenin inhibitors targeting upstream regulators (AZ1366, ETC‑159, G007‑LK, GNF6231, ipafricept, NVP‑TNKS656, rosmantuzumab, vantictumab, WNT‑C59, WNT974 and XAV939), β‑catenin inhibitors targeting protein‑protein interactions (CGP049090, CWP232228, E7386, ICG‑001, LF3 and PRI‑724), β‑catenin inhibitors targeting epigenetic regulators (PKF118‑310), β‑catenin inhibitors targeting mediator complexes (CCT251545 and cortistatin A) and β‑catenin inhibitors targeting transmembrane‑type transcriptional outputs, including CD44v6, FZD7 and LGR5. Eradicating H. pylori and HCV is the optimal approach for the first‑line prevention of gastric cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), respectively. However, β‑catenin inhibitors may be applicable for the prevention of organ fibrosis, second‑line HCC prevention and treating β‑catenin‑driven cancer. The multi‑layered prevention and treatment strategy of β‑catenin‑related human diseases is necessary for the practice of personalized medicine and implementation of precision medicine.
Increased IFN-γ levels have been associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). However, the relationships among IFN-γ, type I interferons (IFNs) and clinical features have not been extensively studied. Peripheral blood samples from 44 SLE patients and 36 healthy donors (HDs) were collected. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to assess the mRNA expression of IFNG, type II IFN-inducible genes (IRF1, GBP1, CXCL9, CXCL10, and SERPING1, which are used for the type II IFN score), type I IFN-inducible genes (IRF7, MX1, ISG15, and ISG20, which are used for the type I IFN score), TBX21, and EOMES in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Flow cytometry was used to measure the IFN-γ levels in lymphocytes. The mRNA levels of type II IFN-inducible genes, IFNG, TBX21, and EOMES were significantly higher in SLE patients than those in HDs. Similarly, the percentages of IFN-γ-producing cells in lymphocytes and their subsets in SLE patients were significantly increased. Linear regression indicated that IFNG expression levels and type II IFN scores were positively correlated with anti-double-stranded DNA autoantibody levels and Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) scores. Compared with patients with low type I IFN scores, patients with high type I IFN scores showed increased type II IFN scores and SLEDAI scores. Type II IFN scores were positively associated with type I IFN scores. The IFN-γ signaling pathway is activated in SLE patients and may be considered an index of disease activity. IFN-γ, together with type I IFNs, promotes the pathogenesis of SLE.
Comment in    Transplantation. 2018 Sep;102(9):1409-1410.
Natural killer (NK) cells play a pivotal role in the immune response against infections and malignant transformation, and adopted transfer of NK cells is thought to be a promising therapeutic approach for cancer patients. Previous reports describing the phenotypic features of canine NK cells have produced inconsistent results. Canine NK cells are still defined as non-B and non-T (CD3-CD21-) large granular lymphocytes. However, a few reports have demonstrated that canine NK cells share the phenotypic characteristics of T lymphocytes, and that CD3+CD5dimCD21- lymphocytes are putative canine NK cells. Based on our previous reports, we hypothesized that phenotypic modulation could occur between these two populations during activation. In this study, we investigated the phenotypic and functional differences between CD3+CD5dimCD21- (cytotoxic large granular lymphocytes) and CD3-CD5-CD21- NK lymphocytes before and after culture of peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from normal dogs. The results of this study show that CD3+CD5dimCD21- lymphocytes can be differentiated into non-B, non-T NK (CD3-CD5-CD21-TCRαβ-TCRγδ-GranzymeB+) lymphocytes through phenotypic modulation in response to cytokine stimulation. In vitro studies of purified CD3+CD5dimCD21- cells showed that CD3-CD5-CD21- cells are derived from CD3+CD5dimCD21- cells through phenotypic modulation. CD3+CD5dimCD21- cells share more NK cell functional characteristics compared with CD3-CD5-CD21- cells, including the expression of T-box transcription factors (Eomes, T-bet), the production of granzyme B and interferon-γ, and the expression of NK cell-related molecular receptors such as NKG2D and NKp30. In conclusion, the results of this study suggest that CD3+CD5dimCD21- and CD3-CD5-CD21- cells both contain a subset of putative NK cells, and the difference between the two populations may be due to the degree of maturation.
Comment in    Cell Stem Cell. 2018 Jun 1;22(6):787-789.
Generation of neurons in the embryonic neocortex is a balanced process of proliferation and differentiation of neuronal progenitor cells. Canonical Wnt signalling is crucial for expansion of radial glial cells in the ventricular zone and for differentiation of intermediate progenitors in the subventricular zone. We detected abundant expression of two transcrtiption factors mediating canonical Wnt signalling, Tcf7L1 and Tcf7L2, in the ventricular zone of the embryonic neocortex. Conditional knock-out analysis showed that Tcf7L2, but not Tcf7L1, is the principal Wnt mediator important for maintenance of progenitor cell identity in the ventricular zone. In the absence of Tcf7L2, the Wnt activity is reduced, ventricular zone markers Pax6 and Sox2 are downregulated and the neuroepithelial structure is severed due to the loss of apical adherens junctions. This results in decreased proliferation of radial glial cells, the reduced number of intermediate progenitors in the subventricular zone and hypoplastic forebrain. Our data show that canonical Wnt signalling, which is essential for determining the neuroepithelial character of the neocortical ventricular zone, is mediated by Tcf7L2.
PURPOSE: The identification of biomarkers related to the prognosis of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is critically important for improved understanding of the biology that drives TNBC progression.METHODS: We evaluated gene expression in total RNA isolated from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor samples using the NanoString nCounter assay for 469 TNBC cases from the Shanghai Breast Cancer Survival Study. We used Cox regression to quantify Hazard Ratios (HR) and corresponding confidence intervals (CI) for overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in models that included adjustment for breast cancer intrinsic subtype. Of 302 genes in our discovery analysis, 22 were further evaluated in relation to OS among 134 TNBC cases from the Nashville Breast Health Study and the Southern Community Cohort Study; 16 genes were further evaluated in relation to DFS in 335 TNBC cases from four gene expression omnibus datasets. Fixed-effect meta-analysis was used to combine results across data sources.RESULTS: Twofold higher expression of EOMES (HR 0.90, 95% CI 0.83-0.97), RASGRP1 (HR 0.89, 95% CI 0.82-0.97), and SOD2 (HR 0.80, 95% CI 0.66-0.96) was associated with better OS. Twofold higher expression of EOMES (HR 0.89, 95% CI 0.81-0.97) and RASGRP1 (HR 0.87, 95% CI 0.81-0.95) was also associated with better DFS. On the contrary, a doubling of FA2H (HR 1.14, 95% CI 1.06-1.22) and GSPT1 (HR 1.33, 95% CI 1.14-1.55) expression was associated with shorter DFS.CONCLUSIONS: We identified five genes (EOMES, FA2H, GSPT1, RASGRP1, and SOD2) that may serve as potential prognostic biomarkers and/or therapeutic targets for TNBC.
Repetitive stimulation by persistent pathogens such as human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) induces the differentiation of natural killer (NK) cells. This maturation pathway is characterized by the acquisition of phenotypic markers, CD2, CD57, and NKG2C, and effector functions-a process regulated by Tim-3 and orchestrated by a complex network of transcriptional factors, involving T-bet, Eomes, Zeb2, promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger protein, and Foxo3. Here, we show that persistent immune activation during chronic viral co-infections (HCMV, hepatitis C virus, and HIV) interferes with the functional phenotype of NK cells by modulating the Tim-3 pathway; a decrease in Tim-3 expression combined with the acquisition of inhibitory receptors skewed NK cells toward an exhausted and cytotoxic phenotype in an inflammatory environment during chronic HIV infection. A better understanding of the mechanisms underlying NK cell differentiation could aid the identification of new immunological targets for checkpoint blockade therapies in a manner that is relevant to chronic infection and cancer.
CD4+ T cells subsets have a wide range of important helper and regulatory functions in the immune system. Several studies have specifically suggested that circulating effector CD4+ T cells may play a direct role in control of HIV replication through cytolytic activity or autocrine β-chemokine production. However, it remains unclear whether effector CD4+ T cells expressing cytolytic molecules and β-chemokines are present within lymph nodes (LNs), a major site of HIV replication. Here, we report that expression of β-chemokines and cytolytic molecules are enriched within a CD4+ T cell population with high levels of the T-box transcription factors T-bet and eomesodermin (Eomes). This effector population is predominately found in peripheral blood and is limited in LNs regardless of HIV infection or treatment status. As a result, CD4+ T cells generally lack effector functions in LNs, including cytolytic capacity and IFNγ and β-chemokine expression, even in HIV elite controllers and during acute/early HIV infection. While we do find the presence of degranulating CD4+ T cells in LNs, these cells do not bear functional or transcriptional effector T cell properties and are inherently poor to form stable immunological synapses compared to their peripheral blood counterparts. We demonstrate that CD4+ T cell cytolytic function, phenotype, and programming in the peripheral blood is dissociated from those characteristics found in lymphoid tissues. Together, these data challenge our current models based on blood and suggest spatially and temporally dissociated mechanisms of viral control in lymphoid tissues.
Systems biological analysis has recently revealed how innate immune variants as well as gut microbiota impact the individual response to immunization. HIV-infected (HIV+) patients have a worse response rate after standard vaccinations, possibly due to the immune exhaustion, increased gut permeability and microbial translocation. In the last decade, dendritic cells (DC)-based immunotherapy has been proposed as an alternative approach to control HIV plasma viral load, however clinical trials showed a heterogeneity of immunization response. Hypothesizing that host genetics may importantly affects the outcome of immunotherapy in HIV+ patients, genetic polymorphisms' distribution and gene expression modulation were analyzed in a phase I/II clinical trial of DC-based immunotherapy according to immunization response, and quality of vaccine product (DC). Polymorphisms in genes previously associated with progression of HIV infection to AIDS (i.e.: PARD3B, CCL5) contribute to a better response to immunotherapy in HIV+ individuals, possibly through a systemic effect on host immune system, but also directly on vaccine product. Genes expression profile after immunization correlates with different degrees of immune chronic activation/exhaustion of HIV+ patients (i.e. PD1, IL7RA, EOMES), but also with anti-viral response and DC quality (i.e.: APOBEC3G, IL8, PPIA), suggested that an immunocompetent individual would have a better vaccine response. These findings showed once more that host genetics can affect the response to DC-based immunotherapy in HIV+ individuals, contributing to the heterogeneity of response observed in concluded trials; and it can be used as predictor of immunization success.
Comment in    Immunity. 2018 Apr 17;48(4):621-623.
Allergic contact dermatitis and its animal model, contact hypersensitivity, are T-cell-mediated inflammatory skin diseases that require activation of the innate immune system. Here we investigate the role of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) during the elicitation phase of 2,4,6-trinitrochlorobenzene-induced contact hypersensitivity using EomesGfp/+ x Rorc(γt)-CreTg x Rosa26RYfp/+ reporter mice. Ear swelling responses, cutaneous ILC numbers, and cytokine production were determined at different time points. Functional analyses were performed in a CD90.1/.2 congenic adoptive transfer model that allowed selective antibody-mediated depletion of ILCs before hapten challenge, and in Rorasg/floxIl7rCre/+ mice, which lack ILC2. Hapten challenge induced early increases of natural killer cells in skin and ear draining lymph nodes corresponding to the peak ear swelling response. In contrast, ILC1, 2, and 3 showed a delayed increase in numbers corresponding to the contact hypersensitivity resolution phase. Hapten challenge induced increased marker cytokines in all ILC subtypes and an activated phenotype in ILC2. Depletion of all ILC resulted in a significantly enhanced ear swelling response. Similarly, ILC2-deficient mice (Rorasg/floxIl7rCre/+) displayed increased ear swelling responses on hapten challenge, suggesting that ILC2 act as negative regulators in the type 1-dominated immune response of contact hypersensitivity.
BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common central nervous system autoimmune disorder. Increasing number of genome-wide association study (GWAS) analyses hint that MS is strongly associated with genetics. Unfortunately, almost all the GWAS analyses were Caucasian population based. Numbers of risk loci might not be replicated in Chinese MS patients. Hence, we performed a MassArray Assay to genotype the previously reported variants located in the transcription regulation genes in order to elucidate their role in the Chinese MS patients.METHODS: One hundred and forty-two relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients and 301 healthy controls were consecutively collected from September 2, 2008, to June 7, 2013, as stage 1 subjects. Eight reported transcription regulation-related single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped using the Sequenom MassArray system. In stage 2, another 44 RRMS patients and 200 healthy controls were consecutively collected and Sanger sequenced from April 7, 2015, to June 29, 2017, for the validation of positive results in stage 1. Differences in allele and genotype frequencies between patients and healthy controls, odds ratios, and 95% confidence intervals were calculated with the Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was tested also using the Chi-square test.RESULTS: In stage 1 analysis, we confirmed only one previously reported risk variant, rs11129295 in EOMES gene. We found that the frequency of T/T genotype was much higher in MS group (χ2 = 10.251, P = 0.005) and the T allele of rs11129295 increased the risk of MS (χ2 = 10.022, P = 0.002). In stage 2 and combined analyses, the T allele of rs11129295 still increased the risk of MS (χ2 = 4.586, P = 0.030 and χ2 = 16.378, P = 5.19 × 10-5, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: This study enhances the knowledge that the variant of EOMES is associated with increasing risk in Chinese RRMS patients and provides a potential therapeutic target in RRMS.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are abundant in mucosal tissues and involved in tissue homeostasis and barrier function. Although several ILC subsets have been identified, it is unknown if additional heterogeneity exists, and their differentiation pathways remain largely unclear. We applied mass cytometry to analyze ILCs in the human fetal intestine and distinguished 34 distinct clusters through a t-SNE-based analysis. A lineage (Lin)-CD7+CD127-CD45RO+CD56+ population clustered between the CD127+ ILC and natural killer (NK) cell subsets, and expressed diverse levels of Eomes, T-bet, GATA3, and RORγt. By visualizing the dynamics of the t-SNE computation, we identified smooth phenotypic transitions from cells within the Lin-CD7+CD127-CD45RO+CD56+ cluster to both the NK cells and CD127+ ILCs, revealing potential differentiation trajectories. In functional differentiation assays, the Lin-CD7+CD127-CD45RO+CD56+CD8a- cells could develop into CD45RA+ NK cells and CD127+RORγt+ ILC3-like cells. Thus, we identified a previously unknown intermediate innate subset that can differentiate into ILC3 and NK cells.
We characterized circulating gamma-delta T cells in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients, during remission and relapse phases. In relapse, we observed a decrease of circulating CCR5+ γδ TEMRA cell subset, together with a decrease in EOMES and granzyme B mRNA expression in γδ T cells, suggesting a reduction of the cytotoxic potential of this subset. Moreover, we also found a higher frequency of IFNγ+ γδ T cells, which may indicate that these cells are assuming a more regulatory function associated to a Th1 profile. These results suggest a specific release from the periphery of a particular γδ T cell subset, expressing CCR5 and belonging to an effector compartment, supporting the idea that γδ T cells could play a role in MS relapse.
Histone deacetylases (HDAC) are therapeutic targets in multiple cancers. ACY241, an HDAC6 selective inhibitor, has shown anti-multiple myeloma (MM) activity in combination with immunomodulatory drugs and proteasome inhibitors. Here we show ACY241 significantly reduces the frequency of CD138+ MM cells, CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ regulatory T cells, and HLA-DRLow/-CD11b+CD33+ myeloid-derived suppressor cells; and decreases expression of PD1/PD-L1 on CD8+ T cells and of immune checkpoints in bone marrow cells from myeloma patients. ACY241 increased B7 (CD80, CD86) and MHC (Class I, Class II) expression on tumor and dendritic cells. We further evaluated the effect of ACY241 on antigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) generated with heteroclitic XBP1unspliced184-192 (YISPWILAV) and XBP1spliced367-375 (YLFPQLISV) peptides. ACY241 induces co-stimulatory (CD28, 41BB, CD40L, OX40) and activation (CD38) molecule expression in a dose- and time-dependent manner, and anti-tumor activities, evidenced by increased perforin/CD107a expression, IFN-γ/IL-2/TNF-α production, and antigen-specific central memory CTL. These effects of ACY241 on antigen-specific memory T cells were associated with activation of downstream AKT/mTOR/p65 pathways and upregulation of transcription regulators including Bcl-6, Eomes, HIF-1 and T-bet. These studies therefore demonstrate mechanisms whereby ACY241 augments immune response, providing the rationale for its use, alone and in combination, to restore host anti-tumor immunity and improve patient outcome.
BACKGROUND: Titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO2 NPs) have recently found applications in a wide variety of consumer goods. TiO2 NPs exposure significantly increases fetal deformities and mortality. However, the potential toxicity of TiO2 NPs on the growth and development of placenta has been rarely studied during mice pregnancy.PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of maternal exposure of TiO2 NPs on the placentation.METHODS: Mice were administered TiO2 NPs by gavage at 0, 1 and 10 mg/kg/day from gestational day (GD) 1 to GD 13. Uteri and placentas from these mice were collected and counted the numbers of implanted and resorbed embryo and measured the placental weight on GD 13. Placental morphometry was observed by hematoxylin and eosin staining. The levels of Hand1, Esx1, Eomes, Hand2, Ascl2 and Fra1 mRNA were assessed by qRT-PCR. Uterine NK (uNK) cells were detected by using DBA lectin. Laminin immunohistochemical staining was to identify fetal vessels. Western blotting and transmission electron micrograph (TEM) were used to assess the apoptosis of placenta.RESULTS: No treatment-related difference was observed in the numbers of implanted and resorbed embryos and weight of placenta between the groups. However, 1 mg/kg/day TiO2 NPs treatment significantly reduced the ratio of placenta/body weight on GD 13. The proportion of spongiotrophoblast in the 10 mg/kg/day dose group became higher than that in the control group, yet that of labyrinth was significantly lower in 10 mg/kg/day mice. The expression levels of Hand1, Esx1, Eomes, Hand2, Ascl2 and Fra1 mRNA markedly decreased in TiO2 NP treated placentas. Furthermore, TiO2 NPs treatment impaired the formation of intricate networks of fetal vessels and reduced the number of uNK cells, and inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis of placenta by nuclear pyknosis, the activation of caspase-3 and upregulation of Bax protein and downregulation of Bcl-2 protein on GD 13.CONCLUSION: Gestational exposure to TiO2 NPs significantly impairs the growth and development of placenta in mice, with a mechanism that seems to be involved in the dysregulation of vascularization, proliferation and apoptosis. Therefore, our results suggested the need for great caution while handling of the nanomaterials by workers and specially pregnant consumers.
The T-box transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes) instruct discrete stages in NK cell development. However, their role in the immune response of mature NK cells against pathogens remains unexplored. We used an inducible deletion system to elucidate the cell-intrinsic role of T-bet and Eomes in mature NK cells during the course of mouse CMV infection. We show both T-bet and Eomes to be necessary for the expansion of virus-specific NK cells, with T-bet upregulation induced by IL-12 signaling and STAT4 binding to a conserved enhancer region upstream of the Tbx21 loci. Interestingly, our data suggest maintenance of virus-specific memory NK cell numbers and phenotype was dependent on T-bet, but not Eomes. These findings uncover a nonredundant and stage-specific influence of T-box transcription factors in the antiviral NK cell response.
CD4+ Th cells can have cytotoxic activity against cells displaying relevant peptide-MHC class II (p:MHCII) ligands. Cytotoxicity may be a property of Th1 cells and depends on perforin and the Eomes transcription factor. We assessed these assertions for polyclonal p:MHCII-specific CD4+ T cells activated in vivo in different contexts. Mice immunized with an immunogenic peptide in adjuvant or infected with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus or Listeria monocytogenes bacteria induced cytotoxic Th cells that killed B cells displaying relevant p:MHCII complexes. Cytotoxicity was dependent on Fas expression by target cells but was independent of Eomes or perforin expression by T cells. Although the priming regimens induced different proportions of Th1, Th17, regulatory T cells, and T follicular helper cells, the T cells expressed Fas ligand in all cases. Reciprocally, Fas was upregulated on target cells in a p:MHCII-specific manner. These results indicate that many Th subsets have cytotoxic potential that is enhanced by cognate induction of Fas on target cells.
Human skin harbors two major T cell compartments of equal size that are distinguished by expression of the chemokine receptor CCR8. In vitro studies have demonstrated that CCR8 expression is regulated by TCR engagement and the skin tissue microenvironment. To extend these observations, we examined the relationship between CCR8+ and CCR8- skin T cells in vivo. Phenotypic, functional, and transcriptomic analyses revealed that CCR8+ skin T cells bear all the hallmarks of resident memory T cells, including homeostatic proliferation in response to IL-7 and IL-15, surface expression of tissue localization (CD103) and retention (CD69) markers, low levels of inhibitory receptors (programmed cell death protein 1, Tim-3, LAG-3), and a lack of senescence markers (CD57, killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily G member 1). In contrast, CCR8- skin T cells are heterogeneous and comprise variable numbers of exhausted (programmed cell death protein 1+), senescent (CD57+, killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily G member 1+), and effector (T-bethi, Eomeshi) T cells. Importantly, conventional and high-throughput sequencing of expressed TCR β-chain (TRB) gene rearrangements showed that these CCR8-defined populations are clonotypically distinct, suggesting unique ontogenies in response to separate antigenic challenges and/or stimulatory conditions. Moreover, CCR8+ and CCR8- skin T cells were phenotypically stable in vitro and displayed similar levels of telomere erosion, further supporting the likelihood of a nonlinear differentiation pathway. On the basis of these results, we propose that long-lived memory T cells in human skin can be defined by the expression of CCR8.
T-bet and Eomes are T-box transcription factors that drive the differentiation and function of cytotoxic lymphocytes such as NK cells. Their DNA-binding domains are highly similar, suggesting redundant transcriptional activity. However, while these transcription factors have different patterns of expression, the phenotype of loss-of-function mouse models suggests that they play distinct roles in the development of NK cells and other innate lymphoid cells (ILCs). Recent technological advances using reporter mice and conditional knockouts were fundamental in defining the regulation and function of these factors at steady state and during pathological conditions such as various types of cancer or infection. Here, we review these recent developments, focusing on NK cells as prototypical cytotoxic lymphocytes and their development, and also discuss parallels between NK cells and T cells. We also examine the role of T-bet and Eomes in human NK cells and ILC1s. Considering divergent findings on mouse and human ILC1s, we propose that NK cells are defined by coexpression of T-bet and Eomes, while ILC1s express only one of these factors, either T-bet or Eomes, depending on the tissue or the species.
How the variety of neurons that organize into neocortical layers and functional areas arises is a central question in the study of cortical development. While both intrinsic and extrinsic cues are known to influence this process, whether distinct neuronal progenitor groups contribute to neuron diversity and allocation is poorly understood. Using in vivo genetic fate-mapping combined with whole-cell patch clamp recording, we show that the firing pattern and apical dendritic morphology of excitatory neurons in layer 4 of the barrel cortex are specified in part by their neural precursor lineage. Further, we show that separate precursors contribute to unique features of barrel cortex topography including the intralaminar position and thalamic innervation of the neurons they generate. Importantly, many of these lineage-specified characteristics are different from those previously measured for pyramidal neurons in layers 2-3 of the frontal cortex. Collectively, our data elucidate a dynamic temporal program in neuronal precursors that fine-tunes the properties of their progeny according to the lamina of destination.
Therapeutic outcomes for adoptive cell transfer (ACT) therapy are constrained by the quality of the infused T cells. The rapid expansion necessary to obtain large numbers of cells results in a more terminally differentiated phenotype with decreased durability and functionality. N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) protects against activation-induced cell death (AICD) and improves anti-tumor efficacy of Pmel-1 T cells in vivo. Here, we show that these benefits of NAC can be extended to engineered T cells and significantly increases T-cell survival within the tumor microenvironment. The addition of NAC to the expansion protocol of human TIL13838I TCR-transduced T cells that are under evaluation in a Phase I clinical trial, demonstrated that findings in murine cells extend to human cells. Expansion of TIL13838I TCR-transduced T cells in NAC also increased their ability to kill target cells in vitro. Interestingly, NAC did not affect memory subsets, but diminished up-regulation of senescence (CD57) and exhaustion (PD-1) markers and significantly decreased expression of the transcription factors EOMES and Foxo1. Pharmacological inhibition of the PI3K/Akt pathway ablates the decrease in Foxo1 induced by NAC treatment of activated T cells. This suggests a model in which NAC through PI3K/Akt activation suppresses Foxo1 expression, thereby impacting its transcriptional targets EOMES, PD-1, and granzyme B. Taken together, our results indicate that NAC exerts pleiotropic effects that impact the quality of TCR-transduced T cells and suggest that the addition of NAC to current clinical protocols should be considered.
The presence of the PTPN22 risk allele (1858T) is associated with several autoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Despite a number of studies exploring the function of PTPN22 in T cells, the exact impact of the PTPN22 risk allele on T-cell function in humans is still unclear. In this study, using RNA sequencing, we show that, upon TCR-activation, naïve human CD4+ T cells homozygous for the PTPN22 risk allele overexpress a set of genes including CFLAR and 4-1BB, which are important for cytotoxic T-cell differentiation. Moreover, the protein expression of the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (EOMES) was increased in T cells from healthy donors homozygous for the PTPN22 risk allele and correlated with a decreased number of naïve CD4+ T cells. There was no difference in the frequency of other CD4+ T-cell subsets (Th1, Th17, Tfh, Treg). Finally, an accumulation of EOMES+ CD4+ T cells was observed in synovial fluid of RA patients with a more pronounced production of Perforin-1 in PTPN22 risk allele carriers. Altogether, we propose a novel mechanism of action of PTPN22 risk allele through the generation of cytotoxic CD4+ T cells and identify EOMES+ CD4+ T cells as a relevant T-cell subset in RA pathogenesis.
BACKGROUND: Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) may be induced by oncogenic signals or can be upregulated via interferon gamma (IFN-γ). We have explored whether the expression of IFNG, the gene encoding IFN-γ, is associated with clinical response to the immune checkpoint blockade in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and melanoma patients. The role of inflammation-associated transcription factors STAT3, IKBKE, STAT1 and other associated genes has also been examined.METHODS: Total RNA from 17 NSCLC and 21 melanoma patients was analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription PCR. STAT3 and Rantes, YAP1 and CXCL5, DNMT1, RIG1 and TET1, EOMES, IFNG, PD-L1 and CTLA4, IKBKE and NFATC1 mRNA were examined. PD-L1 protein expression in tumor and immune cells and stromal infiltration of CD8+ T-cells were also evaluated. Progression-free survival and overall survival were estimated.RESULTS: A total of 17 NSCLC patients received nivolumab and 21 melanoma patients received pembrolizumab. Progression-free survival with nivolumab was significantly longer in NSCLC patients with high versus low IFNG expression (5.1 months versus 2 months, p = 0.0124). Progression-free survival with pembrolizumab was significantly longer in melanoma patients with high versus low IFNG expression (5.0 months versus 1.9 months, p = 0.0099). Significantly longer overall survival was observed for melanoma patients with high versus low IFNG expression (not reached versus 10.2 months p = 0.0183). There was a trend for longer overall survival for NSCLC patients with high versus low IFNG expression.CONCLUSIONS: IFN-γ is an important marker for prediction of response to immune checkpoint blockade. Further research is warranted in order to validate whether IFNG is more accurate than PD-L1.
Master cell fate determinants are thought to induce specific cell lineages in gastrulation by orchestrating entire gene programs. The T-box transcription factor EOMES (eomesodermin) is crucially required for the development of the heart-yet it is equally important for endoderm specification suggesting that it may act in a context-dependent manner. Here, we define an unrecognized interplay between EOMES and the WNT signaling pathway in controlling cardiac induction by using loss and gain-of-function approaches in human embryonic stem cells. Dose-dependent EOMES induction alone can fully replace a cocktail of signaling molecules otherwise essential for the specification of cardiogenic mesoderm. Highly efficient cardiomyocyte programming by EOMES mechanistically involves autocrine activation of canonical WNT signaling via the WNT3 ligand, which necessitates a shutdown of this axis at a subsequent stage. Our findings provide insights into human germ layer induction and bear biotechnological potential for the robust production of cardiomyocytes from engineered stem cells.
In highly polarized cells such as neurons, compartmentalization of mRNA and of local protein synthesis enables remarkably fast, precise, and local responses to external stimuli. These responses are highly important for neuron growth cone guidance, synapse formation, and regeneration following injury. Because an altered spatial distribution of mRNA can result in mental retardation or neurodegenerative diseases, subcellular transcriptome analysis of neurons could be a useful tool for studying these conditions, but current techniques, such as in situ hybridization, bulk microarray, and RNA-Seq, impose tradeoffs between spatial resolution and multiplexing. To obtain a comprehensive analysis of the cell body versus neurite transcriptome from the same neuron, we have recently developed a label-free, single-cell nanobiopsy platform based on scanning ion conductance microscopy that uses electrowetting within a quartz nanopipette to extract cellular material from living cells with minimal disruption of the cellular membrane and milieu. In this study, we used this platform to collect samples from the cell bodies and neurites of human neurons and analyzed the mRNA pool with multiplex RNA sequencing. The minute volume of a nanobiopsy sample allowed us to extract samples from several locations in the same cell and to map the various mRNA species to specific subcellular locations. In addition to previously identified transcripts, we discovered new sets of mRNAs localizing to neurites, including nuclear genes such as Eomes and Hmgb3 In summary, our single-neuron nanobiopsy analysis provides opportunities to improve our understanding of intracellular mRNA transport and local protein composition in neuronal growth, connectivity, and function.
An increasing body of evidence points to significant spatio-temporal differences in early placental development between mouse and human, but a detailed comparison of placentae in these two species is missing. We set out to compare placentae from both species across gestation, with a focus on trophoblast progenitor markers. We found that CDX2 and ELF5, but not EOMES, are expressed in early post-implantation trophoblast subpopulations in both species. Genome-wide expression profiling of mouse and human placentae revealed clusters of genes with distinct co-expression patterns across gestation. Overall, there was a closer fit between patterns observed in the placentae when the inter-species comparison was restricted to human placentae through gestational week 16 (thus, excluding full-term samples), suggesting that the developmental timeline in mouse runs parallel to the first half of human placental development. In addition, we identified VGLL1 as a human-specific marker of proliferative cytotrophoblast, where it is co-expressed with the transcription factor TEAD4. As TEAD4 is involved in trophectoderm specification in the mouse, we posit a regulatory role for VGLL1 in early events during human placental development.
With striking similarity to their adaptive T helper cell counterparts, innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) represent an emerging family of cell types that express signature transcription factors, including T-bet+ Eomes+ natural killer cells, T-bet+ Eomes- group 1 ILCs, GATA3+ group 2 ILCs, RORγt+ group 3 ILCs, and newly identified Id3+ regulatory ILC. ILCs are abundantly present in barrier tissues of the host (e.g., the lung, gut, and skin) at the interface of host-environment interactions. Active research has been conducted to elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying the development and function of ILCs. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor, best known to mediate the effects of xenobiotic environmental toxins and endogenous microbial and dietary metabolites. Here, we review recent progresses regarding Ahr function in ILCs. We focus on the Ahr-mediated cross talk between ILCs and other immune/non-immune cells in host tissues especially in the gut. We discuss the molecular mechanisms of the action of Ahr expression and activity in regulation of ILCs in immunity and inflammation, and the interaction between Ahr and other pathways/transcription factors in ILC development and function with their implication in disease.
PURPOSE: Studies of cytotoxic T cells and their respective lineage master regulators have been limited in Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). It is unclear whether their transcriptomes are changed in HT patients and how these changes are associated with the thyroid damage, major clinical manifestations, and disease progression.METHODS: We explored the gene expression patterns of selected transcription factors [eomesodermin (EOMES), BACH2, BCL6, TCF1] and cytolytic molecules [granzyme B (GZMB)] in peripheral blood (PB) T cells of 10 healthy controls and 30 HT patients of various subtypes (hypothyroid, untreated HT; L-thyroxine (T4)-treated HT, and spontaneously euthyroid HT) using real-time quantitative PCR.RESULTS: EOMES (Mann-Whitney P = 0.044), GZMB (P = 0.028), and BCL6 mRNA (P = 0.001) were overrepresented in PB T cells from HT and showed levels varying by age, thyroid volume and disease severity. BCL6 transcripts were predominantly enriched in severely affected, hypothyroid cases, both on and off LT4. Increased EOMES RNA expression was associated with advancing age, lower thyroid volumes and higher peak adjusted TSH levels over the course of the disease. The body mass-adjusted, steady-state maintenance dose of LT4 increased with GZMB and BCL6 levels in PB T cells of hypothyroid cases, mostly postmenopausal women having long-standing, non-goitrous and atrophic disease form.CONCLUSIONS: Our exploratory results suggest a role for GZMB, EOMES, and BCL6 in the context of HT, thyroid injury, and aggressive/advanced disease forms. Functions enriched within differentially expressed transcripts could be an important new target in understanding the pathogenesis of HT.
The B-lymphotropic Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), pandemic in humans, is rapidly controlled on initial infection by T cell surveillance; thereafter, the virus establishes a lifelong latent infection in the host. If surveillance fails, fatal lymphoproliferation and lymphomagenesis ensue. The initial T cell response consists of predominantly CD8+ cytotoxic T cells and a smaller expansion of CD4+ cells. A major approach to treating EBV-associated lymphomas is adoptive transfer of autologous or allogeneic T cells that are stimulated/expanded on EBV-transformed B cells. Strikingly, the clinical response correlates with the frequency of CD4 cells in the infused T cells. Although in vitro studies suggested that EBV-specific CD4 cells develop cytotoxicity, they have not been comprehensively characterized and the molecular mechanism underlying their formation remains unknown. Our recent work, using a transgenic approach in mice, has revealed a central role for the EBV signaling molecule LMP1 in immune surveillance and transformation of EBV-infected B cells. The mouse model offers a unique tool for uncovering basic features of EBV immunity. Here, we show that LMP1 expression in B cells induces potent cytotoxic CD4 and CD8 T cell responses, by enhancing antigen presentation and costimulation by CD70, OX40 ligand, and 4-1BB ligand. Our data further suggest that cytotoxic CD4 cells hold superior therapeutic value for LMP1 (EBV)-driven lymphomas. These findings provide insights into EBV immunity, demonstrating that LMP1 signaling alone is sufficient to induce a prominent cytotoxic CD4 response, and suggest strategies for immunotherapy in EBV-related and other cancers.
Comment in    Cell. 2018 Jan 11;172(1-2):10-13.    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2018 Mar;19(3):120-121.
Agonists to the TNF/TNFR costimulatory receptors CD134 (OX40) and CD137 (4-1BB) elicit antitumor immunity. Dual costimulation with anti-CD134 plus anti-CD137 is particularly potent because it programs cytotoxic potential in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells. Cytotoxicity in dual-costimulated CD4 T cells depends on the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes), which we report is induced via a mechanism that does not rely on IL-2, in contrast to CD8+ CTL, but rather depends on the CD8 T cell lineage commitment transcription factor Runx3, which supports Eomes expression in mature CD8+ CTLs. Further, Eomes and Runx3 were indispensable for dual-costimulated CD4 T cells to mediate antitumor activity in an aggressive melanoma model. Runx3 is also known to be expressed in standard CD4 Th1 cells where it fosters IFN-γ expression; however, the CD4 T cell lineage commitment factor ThPOK represses transcription of Eomes and other CD8 lineage genes, such as Cd8a Hence, CD4 T cells can differentiate into Eomes+ cytotoxic CD4+CD8+ double-positive T cells by terminating ThPOK expression. In contrast, dual-costimulated CD4 T cells express Eomes, despite the continued expression of ThPOK and the absence of CD8α, indicating that Eomes is selectively released from ThPOK repression. Finally, although Eomes was induced by CD137 agonist, but not CD134 agonist, administered individually, CD137 agonist failed to induce CD134-/- CD4 T cells to express Eomes or Runx3, indicating that both costimulatory pathways are required for cytotoxic Th1 programming, even when only CD137 is intentionally engaged with a therapeutic agonist.
During cerebral cortex development, neural progenitors are required to elaborate a variety of cell differentiation signals to which they are continuously exposed. RA acid is a potent inducer of neuronal differentiation as it was found to influence cortical development. We report herein that TBR2, a transcription factor specific to Intermediate (Basal) Neural Progenitors (INPs), represses activation of the RA responsive element and expression of RA target genes in cell lines. This repressive action on RA signaling was functionally confirmed by the decrease of RA-mediated neuronal differentiation in neural stem cells stably overexpressing TBR2. In vivo mapping of RA activity in the developing cortex indicated that RA activity is detected in radial glial cells and subsequently downregulated in INPs, revealing a fine cell-type specific regulation of its signaling. Thus, TBR2 might be a molecular player in opposing RA signaling in INPs. Interestingly, this negative regulation is achieved at least in part by directly repressing the critical nuclear RA co-factor ZFP423. Indeed, we found ZFP423 to be expressed in the developing cortex and promote RA-dependent neuronal differentiation. These data indicate that TBR2 contributes to suppressing RA signaling in INPs, thereby enabling them to re-enter the cell cycle and delay neuronal differentiation.
Type 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s) fulfill protective functions at mucosal surfaces via cytokine production. Although their plasticity to become ILC1s, the innate counterparts of type 1 helper T cells, has been described previously, we report that they can differentiate into cytotoxic lymphocytes with many characteristics of early differentiated natural killer (NK) cells. This transition is promoted by the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin 12 (IL-12) and IL-15, and correlates with expression of the master transcription factor of cytotoxicity, eomesodermin (Eomes). As revealed by transcriptome analysis and flow cytometric profiling, differentiated ILC3s express CD94, NKG2A, NKG2C, CD56, and CD16 among other NK-cell receptors, and possess all components of the cytotoxic machinery. These characteristics allow them to recognize and kill leukemic cells with perforin and granzymes. Therefore, ILC3s can be harnessed for cytotoxic responses via differentiation under the influence of proinflammatory cytokines.
OBJECTIVE: HIV infection is characterized by several immune dysfunctions, such as chronic activation of the immune system, premature aging and loss of CD4 T cells, in particular within the naïve compartment. The Tat protein of HIV is released extracellularly and enters neighboring cells affecting their functionality, for instance impacting on CD8 T-cell programs and activity. As the presence and/or induction of anti-Tat immune responses is associated with reduced T-cell dysfunction and CD4 T-cell loss, we investigated whether Tat impacts human resting or activated CD4 T cells.METHODS: Purified CD4 T cells were activated by T cell receptor engagement in the presence or absence of Tat. Cytokine production, surface phenotype and expression of transcription factors important for T-cell programing were measured. Purified naïve CD4 T cells were cultured in nonpolarizing conditions in the presence or absence of Tat and their proliferation and differentiation was evaluated.RESULTS: Tat favors the secretion of IL2, IFNγ and TNFα in CD4 T cells, as well as the upregulation of T-bet and Eomes expression. Naïve CD4 T cells cultured in the presence of Tat showed enhanced expansion and differentiation toward memory phenotype, showing in particular recruitment into the effector memory T-cell pool.CONCLUSION: Tat affects the programing and functionality of CD4 T lymphocytes favoring the differentiation of naïve CD4 T cells.
Tumor-specific CD8 T cells often fail to elicit effective antitumor immune responses due to an inability to expand into a substantial effector population and persist long-term in vivo. Using an adoptive transfer model of cancer immunotherapy, we demonstrate that constitutive eomesodermin (Eomes) expression in tumor-specific CD8 T cells improves tumor rejection and survival. The increase in tumor rejection was associated with an increased number and persistence of CD8 T cells in lymphoid tissues during acute tumor rejection, tumor regrowth, and in mice that remained tumor-free. Constitutive Eomes expression increased expression of CD25, and this was associated with enhanced interleukin-2 responsiveness and tumor-specific CD8 T-cell proliferation. Moreover, constitutive Eomes expression improved cell survival. Taken together, our data suggest that constitutive Eomes expression enhances CD8 T-cell proliferation and survival, in part through the enhancement of interleukin-2 responsiveness through CD25 induction.
Glycodelin is an immunomodulator, indispensable for the maintenance of pregnancy in humans. The glycoprotein induces apoptosis in activated CD4+ T cells, monocytes and natural killer (NK) cells, and suppresses the activity of cytotoxic T cells, macrophages and dendritic cells. This study explores the immunosuppressive property of glycodelin for its possible use in preventing graft rejection. Because glycodelin is found only in certain primates, the hypothesis was investigated in an allograft nude mouse model. It is demonstrated that treatment of alloactivated mononuclear cells with glycodelin thwarts graft rejection. Glycodelin decreases the number of activated CD4+ and CD8+ cells and down-regulates the expression of key proteins known to be involved in graft demise such as granzyme-B, eomesodermin (EOMES), interleukin (IL)-2 and proinflammatory cytokines [tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α and IL-6], resulting in a weakened cell-mediated immune response. Immunosuppressive drugs for treating allograft rejection are associated with severe side effects. Glycodelin, a natural immunomodulator in humans, would be an ideal alternative candidate.
Comment in    Cell Mol Immunol. 2018 Nov;15(11):941-943.
T helper 17 (Th17) cells are important mediators of immune responses against extracellular bacteria and fungi, and as such play critical regulatory roles in maintaining mucosal homeostasis. Conversely, Th17 cells and their effector molecules interleukin 17A (IL-17A), IL-17F, interferon (IFN)γ, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)α, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) are implicated in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Interactions between Th17 cells and other immune cells or stromal cells that are present in the synovial tissue during the earliest phases of the disease, may eventually lead to chronic inflammation, irreversible cartilage degradation and bone erosions. Recent evidence points towards Th17 cell plasticity as an essential contributing process in RA pathology, since Th17 cells are able to adopt a pathogenic phenotype under the influence of environmental, inflammatory and genetic factors. A remarkable feature of this pathogenic Th17 cell phenotype is the high production of GM-CSF and TNFα and the co-appearance of Th1 cell characteristics, such as transcription factor T-box 21 (T-bet) and IFNγ expression. Recently, much progress has been made in unravelling the mechanisms underlying Th17 cell plasticity and pathogenicity. Of interest, many of the environmental and inflammatory factors associated with RA pathology, such as pro-inflammatory mediators and cytokines, microbiome dysbiosis, metabolism and diet, obesity, vitamins, steroids and hormones are linked to the development of pathogenic Th17 cells. Moreover proteins encoded by established genetic risk factors for RA including CCR6, CD226, CSF2, EOMES, ETS1, GATA3, IL2, IL6R, IL23R, IKZF3, IRAK1, IRF4, IRF8, PRKCQ, PRDM1, RBPJ, RUNX1 and TAGAP are directly involved in Th17 cell differentiation and/or function. This review provides a detailed overview of the molecular mechanisms involved in the heterogeneity and pathogenicity of Th17 cells in the context of autoimmune diseases, with a focus on RA. Understanding these mechanisms creates great potential to identify and select novel therapeutic targets which could improve current therapies or lead to development of new treatment strategies in RA.
Memory T cells sustain effector T-cell production while self-renewing in reaction to persistent antigen; yet, excessive expansion reduces memory potential and impairs antitumor immunity. Epigenetic mechanisms are thought to be important for balancing effector and memory differentiation; however, the epigenetic regulator(s) underpinning this process remains unknown. Herein, we show that the histone methyltransferase Ezh2 controls CD8+ T memory precursor formation and antitumor activity. Ezh2 activates Id3 while silencing Id2, Prdm1 and Eomes, promoting the expansion of memory precursor cells and their differentiation into functional memory cells. Akt activation phosphorylates Ezh2 and decreases its control of these transcriptional programs, causing enhanced effector differentiation at the expense of T memory precursors. Engineering T cells with an Akt-insensitive Ezh2 mutant markedly improves their memory potential and capability of controlling tumor growth compared to transiently inhibiting Akt. These findings establish Akt-mediated phosphorylation of Ezh2 as a critical target to potentiate antitumor immunotherapeutic strategies.
Natural killer (NK) cells mediate surveillance for malignancy. In some chemotherapy refractory myeloid leukemia patients, adoptive transfer of NK cells from haploidentical donors can induce remission. We have previously shown that remission induction is linked to NK cell persistence at day +14, but the factors influencing NK cell persistence are unknown. To address this question, patient samples from a phase I trial of National Cancer Institute (NCI) IL-15 in whom either did or did not show NK cell expansion were compared with healthy donor control subjects. Before lymphodepleting chemotherapy, high absolute CD3+ count was predictive of patients who failed to expand their haploidentical NK cell graft. Interestingly, both groups had elevated expression of inhibitory receptors and decreased cytokine production compared with control subjects, suggestive of T cell exhaustion among all patients before haploidentical NK cell infusion. At day +14, however, haploidentical NK cell expanders had persistence of recipient CD8+ T cells with the most exhausted inhibitory phenotype (either PD-1high or dual PD-1+Tim-3+) and elevated expression of T-bet and Eomes compared with NK cell nonexpanders and control subjects. This suggested that maintenance of an exhausted T cell state at day +14 permits haploidentical NK cell expansion and supports further efforts to selectively deplete recipient T cells or modulate their dysfunction.
Natural Killer (NK) cell immune reconstitution after double umbilical cord blood transplantation (dUCBT) is rapid and thought to be involved in graft vs. leukemia (GvL) reactions. To investigate the role of NK cell recovery on clinical outcomes, the absolute number of NK cells at Day 28 after dUCBT was determined and patients with low numbers of NK cells had inferior two year disease-free survival (hazard ratio 1.96; p=0.04). A detailed developmental and functional analysis of the recovering NK cells was performed to link NK recovery and patient survival. The proportion of NK cells in each developmental stage was similar for patients with low, medium, and high Day 28 NK cell numbers. As compared to healthy controls, patients post-transplant showed reduced NK functional responses upon K562 challenge (CD107a, IFN-γ, and TNFα); however, there were no differences based on Day 28 NK cell number. Patients with low NK numbers had 30% less STAT5 phosphorylation in response to exogenous IL-15 (p=0.04) and decreased Eomes expression (p=0.025) compared to patients with high NK numbers. Decreased STAT5 phosphorylation and Eomes expression may be indicative of reduced sensitivity to IL-15 in the low NK cell group. Incubation of patient samples with IL-15 superagonist (ALT803) increased cytotoxicity and cytokine production in all patient groups. Thus, clinical interventions, including administration of IL-15 early after transplantation may increase NK cell number and function and, in turn, improve transplantation outcomes.
Pluripotency can be induced in vitro from adult somatic mammalian cells by enforced expression of defined transcription factors regulating and initiating the pluripotency network. Despite the substantial advances over the last decade to improve the efficiency of direct reprogramming, exact mechanisms underlying the conversion into the pluripotent stem cell state are still vaguely understood. Several studies suggested that induced pluripotency follows reversed embryonic development. For somatic cells of mesodermal and endodermal origin that would require the transition through a Primitive streak-like state, which would necessarily require an Eomesodermin (Eomes) expressing intermediate. We analyzed reprogramming in human and mouse cells of mesodermal as well as ectodermal origin by thorough marker gene analyses in combination with genetic reporters, conditional loss of function and stable fate-labeling for the broad primitive streak marker Eomes. We unambiguously demonstrate that induced pluripotency is not dependent on a transient primitive streak-like stage and thus does not represent reversal of mesendodermal development in vivo.
Enhancers and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are key determinants of lineage specification during development. Here, we evaluate remodeling of the enhancer landscape and modulation of the lncRNA transcriptome during mesendoderm specification. We sort mesendodermal progenitors from differentiating embryonic stem cells (ESCs) according to Eomes expression, and find that enhancer usage is coordinated with mesendoderm-specific expression of key lineage-determining transcription factors. Many of these enhancers are associated with the expression of lncRNAs. Examination of ESC-specific enhancers interacting in three-dimensional space with mesendoderm-specifying transcription factor loci identifies MesEndoderm Transcriptional Enhancer Organizing Region (Meteor). Genetic and epigenetic manipulation of the Meteor enhancer reveal its indispensable role during mesendoderm specification and subsequent cardiogenic differentiation via transcription-independent and -dependent mechanisms. Interestingly, Meteor-deleted ESCs are epigenetically redirected towards neuroectodermal lineages. Loci, topologically associating a transcribed enhancer and its cognate protein coding gene, appear to represent therefore a class of genomic elements controlling developmental competence in pluripotency.
The successful development from a single-cell zygote into a complex multicellular organism requires precise coordination of multiple cell-fate decisions. The very first of these is lineage specification into the inner cell mass (ICM) and trophectoderm (TE) during mammalian preimplantation development. In mouse embryos, transcription factors (TFs) such as Oct4, Sox2, and Nanog are enriched in cells of ICM, which gives rise to the fetus and yolk sac. Conversely, TFs such as Cdx2 and Eomes become highly upregulated in TE, which contribute to the placenta. Here, we review the current understanding of key transcriptional control mechanisms and genes responsible for these distinct differences during the first cell lineage specification. In particular, we highlight recent insights gained through advances in genome manipulation, live imaging, single-cell transcriptomics, and loss-of-function studies.
Resident memory T cells (TRM) reside in the lung epithelium and mediate protective immunity against respiratory pathogens. Although lung CD8+ TRM have been extensively characterized, the properties of CD4+ TRM remain unclear. Here we determined the transcriptional signature of CD4+ TRM, identified by the expression of CD103, retrieved from human lung resection material. Various tissue homing molecules were specifically upregulated on CD4+ TRM, whereas expression of tissue egress and lymph node homing molecules were low. CD103+ TRM expressed low levels of T-bet, only a small portion expressed Eomesodermin (Eomes), and although the mRNA levels for Hobit were increased, protein expression was absent. On the other hand, the CD103+ TRM showed a Notch signature. CD4+CD103+ TRM constitutively expressed high transcript levels of numerous cytotoxic mediators that was functionally reflected by a fast recall response, magnitude of cytokine production, and a high degree of polyfunctionality. Interestingly, the superior cytokine production appears to be because of an accessible interferon-γ (IFNγ) locus and was partially because of rapid translation of preformed mRNA. Our studies provide a molecular understanding of the maintenance and potential function of CD4+ TRM in the human lung. Understanding the specific properties of CD4+ TRM is required to rationally improve vaccine design.
Tissue-resident memory (TRM) CD8+ T-cells are non-recirculating, long-lived cells housed in tissues that can confer protection against mucosal pathogens. Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) is a mucosal pathogen and the gastrointestinal tract is an important site of viral pathogenesis and transmission. Thus, CD8+ TRM cells may be an important effector subset for controlling HIV-1 in mucosal tissues. This study sought to determine the abundance, phenotype, and functionality of CD8+ TRM cells in the context of chronic HIV-1 infection. We found that the majority of rectosigmoid CD8+ T-cells were CD69+CD103+S1PR1- and T-betLowEomesoderminNeg, indicative of a tissue-residency phenotype similar to that described in murine models. HIV-1-specific CD8+ TRM responses appeared strongest in individuals naturally controlling HIV-1 infection. Two CD8+ TRM subsets, distinguished by CD103 expression intensity, were identified. CD103Low CD8+ TRM primarily displayed a transitional memory phenotype and contained HIV-1-specific cells and cells expressing high levels of Eomesodermin, whereas CD103High CD8+ TRM primarily displayed an effector memory phenotype and were EomesoderminNeg. These findings suggest a large fraction of CD8+ T-cells housed in the human rectosigmoid mucosa are tissue-resident and that TRM contribute to the anti-HIV-1 immune response. Further exploration of CD8+ TRM will inform development of anti-HIV-1 immune-based therapies and vaccines targeted to the mucosa.
AIM: Association analysis of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) identified multiple sclerosis (MS) risk genetic variants with glatiramer acetate (GA) treatment efficacy.PATIENTS & METHODS: SNPs in 17 GWAS-identified immune response loci were analyzed in 296 Russian MS patients as possible markers of optimal GA treatment response for at least 2 years.RESULTS: Alleles/genotypes of EOMES, CLEC16A, IL22RA2, PVT1 and HLA-DRB1 were associated by themselves with event-free phenotype during GA treatment for at least 2 years (p f  = 0.032 - 0.00092). The biallelic combinations including EOMES, CLEC16A, IL22RA2, PVT1, TYK2, CD6, IL7RA and IRF8 genes were associated with response to GA with increased significance level (p f  = 0.0060 - 1.1 × 10-5). The epistasic interactions or additive effects were observed between the components of the identified biallelic combinations.CONCLUSION: We pinpointed the involvement of several GWAS-identified MS risk loci in GA therapy efficacy. These findings may be aggregated to predict the optimal GA response in MS patients.
In humans, germline competency and the specification of primordial germ cells (PGCs) are thought to occur in a restricted developmental window during early embryogenesis. Despite the importance of specifying the appropriate number of PGCs for human reproduction, the molecular mechanisms governing PGC formation remain largely unexplored. Here, we compared PGC-like cell (PGCLC) differentiation from 18 independently derived human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines, and discovered that the expression of primitive streak genes were positively associated with hESC germline competency. Furthermore, we show that chemical inhibition of TGFβ and WNT signaling, which are required for primitive streak formation and CRISPR/Cas9 deletion of Eomesodermin (EOMES), significantly impacts PGCLC differentiation from hESCs. Taken together, our results suggest that human PGC formation involves signaling and transcriptional programs associated with somatic germ layer induction and expression of EOMES.
Naive hypomethylated embryonic pluripotent stem cells (ESCs) are developmentally closest to the preimplantation epiblast of blastocysts, with the potential to contribute to all embryonic tissues and the germline, excepting the extra-embryonic tissues in chimeric embryos. By contrast, epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs) resembling postimplantation epiblast are relatively more methylated and show a limited potential for chimerism. Here, for the first time, we reveal advanced pluripotent stem cells (ASCs), which are developmentally beyond the pluripotent cells in the inner cell mass but with higher potency than EpiSCs. Accordingly, a single ASC contributes very efficiently to the fetus, germline, yolk sac and the placental labyrinth in chimeras. Since they are developmentally more advanced, ASCs do not contribute to the trophoblast. ASCs were derived from blastocysts in two steps in a chemically defined medium supplemented with Activin A and basic fibroblast growth factor, followed by culturing in ABCL medium containing ActA, BMP4, CHIR99021 and leukemia inhibitory factor. Notably, ASCs exhibit a distinct transcriptome with the expression of both naive pluripotency genes, as well as mesodermal somatic genes; Eomes, Eras, Tdgf1, Evx1, hand1, Wnt5a and distinct repetitive elements. Conversion of established ESCs to ASCs is also achievable. Importantly, ASCs exhibit a stable hypermethylated epigenome and mostly intact imprints as compared to the hypomethylated inner cell mass of blastocysts and naive ESCs. Properties of ASCs suggest that they represent cells at an intermediate cellular state between the naive and primed states of pluripotency.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is a lethal malignancy resistant to most therapies, including immune checkpoint blockade. To elucidate mechanisms of immunotherapy resistance, we assessed immune parameters in resected human PDA. We demonstrate significant interpatient variability in T-cell number, localization, and phenotype. CD8+ T cells, Foxp3+ regulatory T cells, and PD-1+ and PD-L1+ cells were preferentially enriched in tertiary lymphoid structures that were found in most tumors compared with stroma and tumor cell nests. Tumors containing more CD8+ T cells also had increased granulocytes, CD163+ (M2 immunosuppressive phenotype) macrophages, and FOXP3+ regulatory T cells. PD-L1 was rare on tumor cells, but was expressed by CD163+ macrophages and an additional stromal cell subset commonly found clustered together adjacent to tumor epithelium. The majority of tumoral CD8+ T cells did not express molecules suggestive of recent T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling. However, 41BB+PD-1+ T cells were still significantly enriched in tumors compared with circulation. Tumoral CD8+PD-1+ T cells commonly expressed additional inhibitory receptors, yet were mostly T-BEThi and EOMESlo, consistent with a less terminally exhausted state. Analysis of gene expression and rearranged TCR genes by deep sequencing suggested most patients have a limited tumor-reactive T-cell response. Multiplex immunohistochemistry revealed variable T-cell infiltration based on abundance and location, which may result in different mechanisms of immunotherapy resistance. Overall, the data support the need for therapies that either induce endogenous, or provide engineered, tumor-specific T-cell responses, and concurrently relieve suppressive mechanisms operative at the tumor site. Cancer Immunol Res; 5(11); 978-91. ©2017 AACR.
Comment in    Stem Cell Investig. 2018 Apr 29;5:13.    Stem Cell Investig. 2018 Apr 24;5:12.
Once interferon-tau (IFNT) had been identified as a type I IFN in sheep and cattle and its functions were characterized, numerous studies were conducted to elucidate the transcriptional regulation of this gene family. Transfection studies performed largely with human choriocarcinoma cell lines identified regulatory regions of the IFNT gene that appeared responsible for trophoblast-specific expression. The key finding was the recognition that the transcription factor ETS2 bound to a proximal region within the 5'UTR of a bovine IFNT and acted as a strong transactivator. Soon after other transcription factors were identified as cooperative partners. The ETS2-binding site and the nearby AP1 site enable response to intracellular signaling from maternal uterine factors. The AP1 site also serves as a GATA-binding site in one of the bovine IFNT genes. The homeobox-containing transcription factor, DLX3, augments IFNT expression combinatorially with ETS2. CDX2 has also been identified as transactivator that binds to a separate site upstream of the main ETS2 enhancer site. CDX2 participates in IFNT epigenetic regulation by modifying histone acetylation status of the gene. The IFNT downregulation at the time of the conceptus attachment to the uterine endometrium appears correlated with the increased EOMES expression and the loss of other transcription coactivators. Altogether, the studies of transcriptional control of IFNT have provided mechanistic evidence of the regulatory framework of trophoblast-specific expression and critical expression pattern for maternal recognition of pregnancy.
The factors and steps controlling postinfection CD8+ T cell terminal effector versus memory differentiation are incompletely understood. Whereas we found that naive TCF7 (alias "Tcf-1") expression is FOXO1 independent, early postinfection we report bimodal, FOXO1-dependent expression of the memory-essential transcription factor TCF7 in pathogen-specific CD8+ T cells. We determined the early postinfection TCF7high population is marked by low TIM3 expression and bears memory signature hallmarks before the appearance of established memory precursor marker CD127 (IL-7R). These cells exhibit diminished TBET, GZMB, mTOR signaling, and cell cycle progression. Day 5 postinfection, TCF7high cells express higher memory-associated BCL2 and EOMES, as well as increased accumulation potential and capacity to differentiate into memory phenotype cells. TCF7 retroviral transduction opposes GZMB expression and the formation of KLRG1pos phenotype cells, demonstrating an active role for TCF7 in extinguishing the effector program and forestalling terminal differentiation. Past the peak of the cellular immune response, we report a gradient of FOXO1 and TCF7 expression, which functions to oppose TBET and orchestrate a continuum of effector-to-memory phenotypes.
Influenza epidemics lead to severe illness, life-threatening complications, and deaths, especially in the elderly. As CD8+ T cells are associated with rapid recovery from influenza, we investigated the effects of aging on antigen-specific CD8+ T cells across the universal influenza epitopes in humans. We show that aging is characterized by altered frequencies in T cell subsets, with naive T cells being partially replaced by activated effector/memory populations. Although we observed no striking differences in TCR signaling capacity, T cells in the elderly had increased expression of transcription factors Eomes and T-bet, and such changes were most apparent in CD8+ T cells. Strikingly, the numbers of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells across universal influenza epitopes were reduced in the elderly, although their effector/memory phenotypes remained stable. To understand whether diminished numbers of influenza-specific CD8+ T cells in the elderly resulted from alteration in TCR clonotypes, we dissected the TCRαβ repertoire specific for the prominent HLA-A*02:01-restricted-M158-66 (A2/M158 ) influenza epitope. We provide the first ex vivo data on paired antigen-specific TCRαβ clonotypes in the elderly, showing that influenza-specific A2/M158+ TCRαβ repertoires in the elderly adults varied from those in younger adults, with the main features being a reduction in the frequency of the public TRAV27-TRBV19 TCRαβ clonotype, increased proportion of private TCRαβ signatures, broader use of TRAV and TRBV gene segments, and large clonal expansion of private TCRαβ clonotypes with longer CDR3 loops. Our study supports the development of T cell-targeted influenza vaccines that would boost the T cell compartment during life and maintain the numbers and optimal TCRαβ signatures in the elderly.
Objective: To investigate whether mTOR signaling pathway regulate the proliferation and differentiation of CD8+ T cells by transcription factors T-bet and Eomes, and explore the role of IL-12 in this biological procedure. Methods: Aspergillus fumigatus spore suspension nasal inhalation was used to establish the invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) mouse model. After inoculation, rapamycin (2mg/kg) each day or IL-12 (5ug/kg) every other day was given for 7 days. The blood samples were obtained before the mice sacrificed and lung specimens were taken. Pathological sections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (HE). The number of CD8+effective memory T cells (Tem) and the expression of IFN-γ, mTOR, ribosomal protein S6 kinase (S6K), T-bet and EOMES were measured by flow cytometry. The levels of IL-6, IL-10 and Galactomannan (GM) were determined by ELISA. Results: After IL-12 treatment, the number of CD8+ Tem and the expression of IFN-γ increased significantly; while quite the opposite results were observed when the mTOR pathway was blocked by rapamycin. The expression of mTOR and S6K as well as the level of IFN-γ of the IL-12 treatment group were significantly higher than those in IPA and IPA + rapamycin groups. In addition, IL-12 promoted increasing T-bet and down regulating Eomes to make the Tem transformation. The final immune effector was high level of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6) and low level of anti-inflammatory factors (IL-10) and this strengthened immune response to the Aspergillus infection. Conclusions: The biological effects of Tem could significantly affect IPA infection host immune regulation, which depended on the activation of mTOR signaling pathway by IL-12.
The ETS transcription factor Etv2 is necessary and sufficient for the generation of hematopoietic and endothelial cells. However, upstream regulators of Etv2 in hemangiogenesis, generation of hematopoietic and endothelial cells, have not been clearly addressed. Here we track the developmental route of hemangiogenic progenitors from mouse embryonic stem cells, perform genome-wide CRISPR screening, and transcriptome analysis of en route cell populations by utilizing Brachyury, Etv2, or Scl reporter embryonic stem cell lines to further understand the mechanisms that control hemangiogenesis. We identify the forkhead transcription factor Foxh1, in part through Eomes, to be critical for the formation of FLK1+ mesoderm, from which the hemangiogenic fate is specified. Importantly, hemangiogenic fate is specified not simply by the onset of Etv2 expression, but by a threshold-dependent mechanism, in which VEGF-FLK1 signaling plays an instructive role by promoting Etv2 threshold expression. These studies reveal comprehensive cellular and molecular pathways governing the hemangiogenic cell lineage development.How haematopoietic and endothelial cell lineages are specified is unclear. Here, the authors identify the forkhead transcription factor Foxh1 as regulating FLK1+ mesoderm formation in mouse embryonic stem cells, which in turn specifies hemangiogenic fate via Etv2.
In this study, we determined the role of IL-21R signaling in Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, using IL-21R knockout (KO) mice. A total of 50% of M. tuberculosis H37Rv-infected IL-21R KO mice died in 6 mo compared with no deaths in infected wild type (WT) mice. M. tuberculosis-infected IL-21R KO mice had enhanced bacterial burden and reduced infiltration of Ag-specific T cells in lungs compared with M. tuberculosis-infected WT mice. Ag-specific T cells from the lungs of M. tuberculosis-infected IL-21R KO mice had increased expression of T cell inhibitory receptors, reduced expression of chemokine receptors, proliferated less, and produced less IFN- γ, compared with Ag-specific T cells from the lungs of M. tuberculosis-infected WT mice. T cells from M. tuberculosis-infected IL-21R KO mice were unable to induce optimal macrophage responses to M. tuberculosis. This may be due to a decrease in the Ag-specific T cell population. We also found that IL-21R signaling is associated with reduced expression of a transcriptional factor Eomesodermin and enhanced functional capacity of Ag-specific T cells of M. tuberculosis-infected mice. The sum of our findings suggests that IL-21R signaling is essential for the optimal control of M. tuberculosis infection.
Virus infections induce CD8+ T cell responses comprised of a large population of terminal effector cells and a smaller subset of long-lived memory cells. The transcription factors regulating the relative expansion versus the long-term survival potential of anti-viral CD8+ T cells are not completely understood. We identified ZBTB32 as a transcription factor that is transiently expressed in effector CD8+ T cells. After acute virus infection, CD8+ T cells deficient in ZBTB32 showed enhanced virus-specific CD8+ T cell responses, and generated increased numbers of virus-specific memory cells; in contrast, persistent expression of ZBTB32 suppressed memory cell formation. The dysregulation of CD8+ T cell responses in the absence of ZBTB32 was catastrophic, as Zbtb32-/- mice succumbed to a systemic viral infection and showed evidence of severe lung pathology. We found that ZBTB32 and Blimp-1 were co-expressed following CD8+ T cell activation, bound to each other, and cooperatively regulated Blimp-1 target genes Eomes and Cd27. These findings demonstrate that ZBTB32 is a key transcription factor in CD8+ effector T cells that is required for the balanced regulation of effector versus memory responses to infection.
Mouse liver contains both Eomes-dependent conventional natural killer (cNK) cells and Tbet-dependent liver-resident type I innate lymphoid cells (ILC1). In order to better understand the role of ILC1, we attempted to generate mice that would lack liver ILC1, while retaining cNK, by conditional deletion of Tbet in NKp46+ cells. Here we report that the Ncr1 iCreTbx21 fl/fl mouse has a roughly equivalent reduction in both the cNK and ILC1 compartments of the liver, limiting its utility for investigating the relative contributions of these two cell types in disease models. We also describe the phenotype of these mice with respect to NK cells, ILC1 and NKp46 + ILC3 in the spleen and small intestine lamina propria.
IL-18 is an inflammasome-related cytokine, member of the IL-1 family, produced by a wide range of cells in response to signals by several pathogen- or damage-associated molecular patterns. It can be highly represented in tumor patients, but its relevance in human cancer development is not clear. In this study, we provide evidence that IL-18 is principally expressed in tumor cells and, in concert with other conventional Th1 cell-driven cytokines, has a pivotal role in establishing a pro-inflammatory milieu in the tumor microenvironment of human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Interestingly, the analysis of tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cell populations showed that (i) the relative IL-18 receptor (IL-18R) is significantly more expressed by the minority of cells with a functional phenotype (T-bet+Eomes+), than by the majority of those with the dysfunctional phenotype T-bet-Eomes+ generally resident within tumors; (ii) as a consequence, the former are significantly more responsive than the latter to IL-18 stimulus in terms of IFNγ production ex vivo; (iii) PD-1 expression does not discriminate these two populations. These data indicate that IL-18R may represent a biomarker of the minority of functional tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells in adenocarcinoma NSCLC patients. In addition, our results lead to envisage the possible therapeutic usage of IL-18 in NSCLC, even in combination with other checkpoint inhibitor approaches.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects skin and is associated with systemic inflammation and many serious comorbidities ranging from metabolic syndrome to cancer. Important discoveries about psoriasis pathogenesis have enabled the development of effective biological treatments blocking the T helper 17 pathway. However, it has not been settled whether psoriasis is a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease or an autoinflammatory disorder that is driven by exaggerated innate immune signalling. Our comparative gene expression and hierarchical cluster analysis reveal important gene circuits involving innate receptors. Innate immune activation is indicated by increased absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2) inflammasome gene expression and active caspase 1 staining in psoriatic lesional skin. Increased eomesodermin (EOMES) expression in lesional and non-lesional skin is suggestive of innate-like virtual memory CD8+ T cell infiltration. We found that signs of systemic inflammation were present in most of the patients, correlated with the severity of the disease, and pointed to IL-6 involvement in the pathogenesis of psoriatic arthritis. Among the circulating T cell subpopulations, we identified a higher proportion of terminally differentiated or senescent CD8+ T cells, especially in patients with long disease duration, suggesting premature immunosenescence and its possible implications for psoriasis co-morbidities.
Reduced neurogenesis in the aging mammalian hippocampus has been linked to cognitive deficits and increased risk of dementia. We utilized postmortem human hippocampal tissue from 26 subjects aged 18-88 years to investigate changes in expression of six genes representing different stages of neurogenesis across the healthy adult lifespan. Progressive and significant decreases in mRNA levels of the proliferation marker Ki67 (MKI67) and the immature neuronal marker doublecortin (DCX) were found in the healthy human hippocampus over the lifespan. In contrast, expression of genes for the stem cell marker glial fibrillary acidic protein delta and the neuronal progenitor marker eomesodermin was unchanged with age. These data are consistent with a persistence of the hippocampal stem cell population with age. Age-associated expression of the proliferation and immature neuron markers MKI67 and DCX, respectively, was unrelated, suggesting that neurogenesis-associated processes are independently altered at these points in the development from stem cell to neuron. These data are the first to demonstrate normal age-related decreases at specific stages of adult human hippocampal neurogenesis.
The generation of neocortical neurons from neural progenitor cells (NPCs) is primarily controlled by transcription factors binding to DNA in the context of chromatin. To understand the complex layer of regulation that orchestrates different NPC types from the same DNA sequence, epigenome maps with cell type resolution are required. Here, we present genomewide histone methylation maps for distinct neural cell populations in the developing mouse neocortex. Using different chromatin features, we identify potential novel regulators of cortical NPCs. Moreover, we identify extensive H3K27me3 changes between NPC subtypes coinciding with major developmental and cell biological transitions. Interestingly, we detect dynamic H3K27me3 changes on promoters of several crucial transcription factors, including the basal progenitor regulator Eomes We use catalytically inactive Cas9 fused with the histone methyltransferase Ezh2 to edit H3K27me3 at the Eomes locus in vivo, which results in reduced Tbr2 expression and lower basal progenitor abundance, underscoring the relevance of dynamic H3K27me3 changes during neocortex development. Taken together, we provide a rich resource of neocortical histone methylation data and outline an approach to investigate its contribution to the regulation of selected genes during neocortical development.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2017 Aug 22;18(9):959-960.
Stem cell antigen-1 (Sca-1/Ly6A/E) is a cell surface glycoprotein that is often used as a biomarker for stem cells and cell stemness. However, it is not clear what factors can directly induce the expression of Sca-1/Ly6A/E in T lymphocytes in vivo, and if induction of Sca-1 is associated with T cell stemness. In this study, we show that interleukin-27 (IL-27), a member of the IL-12 family of cytokines, directly induces Sca-1 expression in T cells in vivo. We found that mice-deficient for IL-27 (either P28 or EBI3) or its signalling (IL-27Rα) had profound reduction of Sca-1 expression in naive (CD62L+  CD44- ), memory (CD62L+  CD44+ ) and effector (CD62L-  CD44+ ) T cells. In contrast, in vivo delivery of IL-27 using adeno-associated viral vectors strongly induced the expression of Sca-1 in naive and memory/effector T-cell populations in an IL-27 receptor- or signal transducer and activator of transcription 1-dependent manner. Interestingly, IL-27-induced Sca-1+ T cells do not express or up-regulate classic stem cell-associated genes such as Nanog, Oct4, Sox2 and Ctnnb1. However, IL-27-induced Sca-1+ T cells had increased expression of effector/memory-associated transcription factor T-bet, Eomes and Blimp1. Hence, IL-27 signalling directly induces the expression of Sca-1/Ly6A/E expression in T cells. Direct expansion of Sca-1+  CD62L+  CD44- T memory stem cells may explain why IL-27 enhances T-cell memory.
Comment in    J Leukoc Biol. 2017 Dec;102(6):1281-1284.
Type 1 regulatory T (TR1) cells are Foxp3- interleukin-10 (IL-10)-producing CD4+ T cells with potent immunosuppressive properties, but their requirements for lineage development have remained elusive. We show that TR1 cells constitute the most abundant regulatory population after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT), express the transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes), and are critical for the prevention of graft-versus-host disease. We demonstrate that Eomes is required for TR1 cell differentiation, during which it acts in concert with the transcription factor B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (Blimp-1) by transcriptionally activating IL-10 expression and repressing differentiation into other T helper cell lineages. We further show that Eomes induction in TR1 cells requires T-bet and donor macrophage-derived IL-27. Thus, we define the cellular and transcriptional control of TR1 cell differentiation during BMT, opening new avenues to therapeutic manipulation.
The differentiation of naive CD8 T cells into effector cytotoxic T lymphocytes upon antigen stimulation is necessary for successful antiviral, and antitumor immune responses. Here, using a mouse model, we describe a dual role for the let-7 microRNAs in the regulation of CD8 T cell responses, where maintenance of the naive phenotype in CD8 T cells requires high levels of let-7 expression, while generation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes depends upon T cell receptor-mediated let-7 downregulation. Decrease of let-7 expression in activated T cells enhances clonal expansion and the acquisition of effector function through derepression of the let-7 targets, including Myc and Eomesodermin. Ultimately, we have identified a novel let-7-mediated mechanism, which acts as a molecular brake controlling the magnitude of CD8 T cell responses.
The neural tube is the primordium of the central nervous system (CNS) in which its development is not entirely clear. Understanding the cellular and molecular basis of neural tube development could, therefore, provide vital clues to the mechanism of neural tube defects (NTDs). Here, we investigated the gene expression profiles of three different time points (embryonic day (E) 8.5, 9.5 and 10.5) of mouse neural tube by using RNA-seq approach. About 391 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened during mouse neural tube development, including 45 DEGs involved in CNS development, among which Bmp2, Ascl1, Olig2, Lhx1, Wnt7b and Eomes might play the important roles. Of 45 DEGs, Foxp2, Eomes, Hoxb3, Gpr56, Hap1, Nkx2-1, Sez6l2, Wnt7b, Tbx20, Nfib, Cntn1 and Dcx had different isoforms, and the opposite expression pattern of different isoforms was observed for Gpr56, Nkx2-1 and Sez6l2. In addition, alternative splicing, such as mutually exclusive exon, retained intron, skipped exon and alternative 3' splice site was identified in 10 neural related differentially splicing genes, including Ngrn, Ddr1, Dctn1, Dnmt3b, Ect2, Map2, Mbnl1, Meis2, Vcan and App. Moreover, seven neural splicing factors, such as Nova1/2, nSR100/Srrm4, Elavl3/4, Celf3 and Rbfox1 were differentially expressed during mouse neural tube development. Interestingly, nine DEGs identified above were dysregulated in retinoic acid-induced NTDs model, indicating the possible important role of these genes in NTDs. Taken together, our study provides more comprehensive information on mouse neural tube development, which might provide new insights on NTDs occurrence. © 2017 IUBMB Life, 69(9):706-719, 2017.
Biologic treatment of T1D typically results in transient stabilization of C-peptide levels (a surrogate for endogenous insulin secretion) in some patients, followed by progression at the same rate as in untreated control groups. Here, we used integrated systems biology and flow cytometry approaches with clinical trial blood samples to elucidate pathways associated with C-peptide stabilization in T1D subjects treated with the anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody teplizumab. We identified a population of CD8 T cells that accumulated in subjects with the best response to treatment (responders) and showed that these cells phenotypically resembled exhausted T cells by expressing high levels of the transcription factor EOMES, effector molecules, and multiple inhibitory receptors (IRs), including TIGIT and KLRG1. These cells expanded after treatment, with levels peaking after 3-6 months. To functionally characterize these exhausted-like T cells, we isolated memory CD8 TIGIT+KLRG1+ T cells from responders and showed that they exhibited expanded TCR clonotypes, indicative of prior in vivo expansion; recognized a broad-based spectrum expressed of environmental and auto-antigens; and were hypo-proliferative during polyclonal stimulation, increasing expression of IR genes and decreasing cell cycle genes. Triggering these cells with a recombinant ligand for TIGIT during polyclonal stimulation further downregulated their activation, demonstrating their exhausted phenotype was not terminal. These findings identify and functionally characterize a partially exhausted cell type associated with response to teplizumab therapy and suggest that pathways regulating T cell exhaustion may play a role in successful immune interventions for T1D.
RATIONALE: Recent advances have improved our ability to generate cardiomyocytes from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) and human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). However, our understanding of the transcriptional regulatory networks underlying early stages (ie, from mesoderm to cardiac mesoderm) of cardiomyocyte differentiation remains limited.OBJECTIVE: To characterize transcriptome and chromatin accessibility during early cardiomyocyte differentiation from hiPSCs and hESCs.METHODS AND RESULTS: We profiled the temporal changes in transcriptome and chromatin accessibility at genome-wide levels during cardiomyocyte differentiation derived from 2 hiPSC lines and 2 hESC lines at 4 stages: pluripotent stem cells, mesoderm, cardiac mesoderm, and differentiated cardiomyocytes. Overall, RNA sequencing analysis revealed that transcriptomes during early cardiomyocyte differentiation were highly concordant between hiPSCs and hESCs, and clustering of 4 cell lines within each time point demonstrated that changes in genome-wide chromatin accessibility were similar across hiPSC and hESC cell lines. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified several modules that were strongly correlated with different stages of cardiomyocyte differentiation. Several novel genes were identified with high weighted connectivity within modules and exhibited coexpression patterns with other genes, including noncoding RNA LINC01124 and uncharacterized RNA AK127400 in the module related to the mesoderm stage; E-box-binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1) in the module correlated with postcardiac mesoderm. We further demonstrated that ZEB1 is required for early cardiomyocyte differentiation. In addition, based on integrative analysis of both WGCNA and transcription factor motif enrichment analysis, we determined numerous transcription factors likely to play important roles at different stages during cardiomyocyte differentiation, such as T and eomesodermin (EOMES; mesoderm), lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) and mesoderm posterior BHLH transcription factor 1 (MESP1; from mesoderm to cardiac mesoderm), meis homeobox 1 (MEIS1) and GATA-binding protein 4 (GATA4) (postcardiac mesoderm), JUN and FOS families, and MEIS2 (cardiomyocyte).CONCLUSIONS: Both hiPSCs and hESCs share similar transcriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying early cardiac differentiation, and our results have revealed transcriptional regulatory networks and new factors (eg, ZEB1) controlling early stages of cardiomyocyte differentiation.
The differential impact of ageing and cytomegalovirus (CMV) latent infection on human T-cell subsets remains to some extent controversial. The purpose of this study was to analyse the expression of the transcription factors T-bet and Eomes and CD57 on CD4+, CD4hiCD8lo and CD8+ T-cell subsets in healthy individuals, stratified by age and CMV serostatus. The percentage of CD4+ T-cells expressing T-bet or Eomes was very low, in particular in CD4+ T-cells from young CMV-seronegative individuals, and were higher in CMV-seropositive older individuals, in both CD57- and CD57+ CD4+ T-cells. The study of the minor peripheral blood double-positive CD4hiCD8lo T-cells showed that the percentage of these T-cells expressing both Eomes and T-bet was higher compared to CD4+ T-cells. The percentage of CD4hiCD8lo T-cells expressing T-bet was also associated with CMV seropositivity and the coexpression of Eomes, T-bet and CD57 on CD4hiCD8lo T-cells was only observed in CMV-seropositive donors, supporting the hypothesis that these cells are mature effector memory cells. The percentage of T-cells expressing Eomes and T-bet was higher in CD8+ T-cells than in CD4+ T-cells. The percentages of CD8+ T-cells expressing Eomes and T-bet increased with age in CMV-seronegative and -seropositive individuals and the percentages of CD57- CD8+ and CD57+ CD8+ T-cells coexpressing both transcription factors were similar in the different groups studied. These results support that CMV chronic infection and/or ageing are associated to the expansion of highly differentiated CD4+, CD4hiCD8lo and CD8+ T-cells that differentially express T-bet and Eomes suggesting that the expression of these transcription factors is essential for the generation and development of an effector-memory and effector T lymphocytes involved in conferring protection against chronic CMV infection.
The T-box transcription factor Eomes (also known as Tbr2) shows short-lived expression in various localized domains of the embryo, including epiblast cells during gastrulation and intermediate progenitor cells in the cerebral cortex. In these tissues Eomes fulfills crucial roles for lineage specification of progenitors. To directly observe Eomes-dependent cell lineages in the living embryo, we generated a novel dual-fluorescence reporter allele that expresses a membrane-bound tdTomato protein for investigation of cell morphology and a nuclear GFP for cell tracing. This allele recapitulates endogenous EOMES protein expression and is suitable for live imaging. We found that the allele can also be used as a short-to-medium-term lineage tracer, as GFP persists in cells longer than EOMES protein and marks Eomes-dependent lineages with a timeframe of days to weeks depending on the proliferation rate. In summary, we present a novel genetic tool for investigation of Eomes-dependent cell types by live imaging and lineage tracing.
Histone acetylation and the families of enzymes responsible for controlling these epigenetic marks have been implicated in regulating T-cell maturation and phenotype. Here, we demonstrate a previously undefined role of histone deacetylase 11 (HDAC11) in regulating T-cell effector functions. Using EGFP-HDAC11 transgenic reporter mice, we found that HDAC11 expression was lower in effector relative to naive and central memory T-cell populations, and activation of resting T cells resulted in its decreased expression. Experiments using HDAC11 knockout (KO) mice revealed that T cells from these mice displayed enhanced proliferation, proinflammatory cytokine production, and effector molecule expression. In addition, HDAC11KO T cells had increased expression of Eomesodermin (Eomes) and TBX21 (Tbet), transcription factors previously shown to regulate inflammatory cytokine and effector molecule production. Conversely, overexpression of HDAC11 resulted in decreased expression of these genes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation showed the presence of HDAC11 at the Eomes and Tbet gene promoters in resting T cells, where it rapidly disassociated following T-cell activation. In vivo, HDAC11KO T cells were refractory to tolerance induction. HDAC11KO T cells also mediated accelerated onset of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in a murine model, characterized by increased proliferation of T cells and expression of interferon-γ, tumor necrosis factor, and EOMES. In addition, adoptive transfer of HDAC11KO T cells resulted in significantly reduced tumor burden in a murine B-cell lymphoma model. Taken together, these data demonstrate a previously unknown role of HDAC11 as a negative epigenetic regulator of T-cell effector phenotype and function.
Comment in    J Exp Med. 2017 Jun 5;214(6):1564-1566.
The mechanisms for human germ cell development have remained largely unknown, due to the difficulty in obtaining suitable experimental materials. The establishment of an in vitro system to reconstitute human germ cell development will thus provide a critical opportunity to understand its mechanisms at a molecular level. It has previously been shown that human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) are first induced into incipient mesoderm-like cells (iMeLCs), which are in turn induced into primordial germ-cell like cells (PGCLCs) with gene expression properties similar to early migratory PGCs. Here, we report that the efficiency of PGCLC induction varies among hiPSC clones, and, interestingly, the clonal variations in PGCLC induction efficiency are reflected in the gene expression states of the iMeLCs. Remarkably, the expression levels of EOMES, MIXL1, or T in the iMeLCs are positively correlated with the efficiency of subsequent PGCLC generation, while the expressions of CDH1, SOX3, or FGF2 are negatively correlated. These results indicate that the expression changes of these genes occurring during iMeLC induction are key markers indicative of successful induction of PGCLCs, and furthermore, that hiPSC clones have different properties that influence their responsivity to the iMeLC induction. Our study thus provides important insights into the mechanism of hPGC specification as well as the development of a better strategy for inducing human germ cell fate from PSCs in vitro.
Wntless (Wls) is implicated in the Wnt signaling pathway by regulating the secretion of Wnt molecules. During brain development, Wls is expressed in the isthmic organizer (ISO) and rhombic lip (RL). Wls regulates Wnt1 secretion at the ISO which is required to induce midbrain-hindbrain structures. However, Wls function in the RL is not known. Here, we employed Nestin-cre to delete Wls specifically in the RL during mid-gestation. The loss-of-Wls leads to an abnormal RL during development and cerebellar vermis hypoplasia at birth. The Wls conditional knockout (cKO) has rudimentary foliation with an absence of Bergmann glia fibers in the external germinal layer (EGL). The Wls-cKO cerebellum also exhibits ectopia of several cell types and aberrations in granule cell organization. Finally, there is a loss of 85% of unipolar brush cells. From these findings, Wls-expressing cells in the rhombic lip are implicated in the orchestration of cerebellar development.
The efficacy of the adaptive immune response declines dramatically with age, but the cell-intrinsic mechanisms driving immune aging in humans remain poorly understood. Immune aging is characterized by a loss of self-renewing naïve cells and the accumulation of differentiated but dysfunctional cells within the CD8 T cell compartment. Using ATAC-seq, we inferred the transcription factor binding activities correlated with naive and central and effector memory CD8 T cell states in young adults. Integrating our results with RNA-seq, we identified transcription networks associated with CD8 T cell differentiation, with prominent roles implicated for BATF, ETS1, Eomes, and Sp1. Extending our analysis to aged humans, we found that the differences between the memory and naive subsets were largely preserved across age, but that naive and central memory cells from older individuals exhibited a shift toward more differentiated patterns of chromatin openness. Additionally, aged naive cells displayed a loss in chromatin accessibility at gene promoters, largely associated with a decrease in NRF1 binding. This shift was implicated in a marked drop-off in the ability of the aged naive cells to transcribe respiratory chain genes, which may explain the reduced capacity of oxidative phosphorylation in older naïve cells. Our findings identify BATF- and NRF1-driven gene regulation as potential targets for delaying CD8 T cell aging and restoring function.
In many societies, the majority of adults regularly consume alcohol. However, only a small proportion develops alcohol addiction. Individuals at risk often show a high sensation-seeking/low-anxiety behavioural phenotype. Here we asked which role EF hand domain containing 2 (EFhd2; Swiprosin-1) plays in the control of alcohol addiction-associated behaviours. EFhd2 knockout (KO) mice drink more alcohol than controls and spontaneously escalate their consumption. This coincided with a sensation-seeking and low-anxiety phenotype. A reversal of the behavioural phenotype with β-carboline, an anxiogenic inverse benzodiazepine receptor agonist, normalized alcohol preference in EFhd2 KO mice, demonstrating an EFhd2-driven relationship between personality traits and alcohol preference. These findings were confirmed in a human sample where we observed a positive association of the EFhd2 single-nucleotide polymorphism rs112146896 with lifetime drinking and a negative association with anxiety in healthy adolescents. The lack of EFhd2 reduced extracellular dopamine levels in the brain, but enhanced responses to alcohol. In confirmation, gene expression analysis revealed reduced tyrosine hydroxylase expression and the regulation of genes involved in cortex development, Eomes and Pax6, in EFhd2 KO cortices. These findings were corroborated in Xenopus tadpoles by EFhd2 knockdown. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in mice showed that a lack of EFhd2 reduces cortical volume in adults. Moreover, human MRI confirmed the negative association between lifetime alcohol drinking and superior frontal gyrus volume. We propose that EFhd2 is a conserved resilience factor against alcohol consumption and its escalation, working through Pax6/Eomes. Reduced EFhd2 function induces high-risk personality traits of sensation-seeking/low anxiety associated with enhanced alcohol consumption, which may be related to cortex function.
Unconventional T cells are defined by their capacity to respond to signals other than the well-known complex of peptides and major histocompatibility complex proteins. Among the burgeoning family of unconventional T cells, innate-like CD8(+) T cells in the mouse were discovered in the early 2000s. This subset of CD8(+) T cells bears a memory phenotype without having encountered a foreign antigen and can respond to innate-like IL-12 + IL-18 stimulation. Although the concept of innate memory CD8(+) T cells is now well established in mice, whether an equivalent memory NK-like T-cell population exists in humans remains under debate. We recently reported that CD8(+) T cells responding to innate-like IL-12 + IL-18 stimulation and co-expressing the transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) and KIR/NKG2A membrane receptors with a memory/EMRA phenotype may represent a new, functionally distinct innate T cell subset in humans. In this review, after a summary on the known innate CD8(+) T-cell features in the mouse, we propose Eomes together with KIR/NKG2A and CD49d as a signature to standardize the identification of this innate CD8(+) T-cell subset in humans. Next, we discuss IL-4 and IL-15 involvement in the generation of innate CD8(+) T cells and particularly its possible dependency on the promyelocytic leukemia zinc-finger factor expressing iNKT cells, an innate T cell subset well documented for its susceptibility to tumor immune subversion. After that, focusing on cancer diseases, we provide new insights into the potential role of these innate CD8(+) T cells in a physiopathological context in humans. Based on empirical data obtained in cases of chronic myeloid leukemia, a myeloproliferative syndrome controlled by the immune system, and in solid tumors, we observe both the possible contribution of innate CD8(+) T cells to cancer disease control and their susceptibility to tumor immune subversion. Finally, we note that during tumor progression, innate CD8(+) T lymphocytes could be controlled by immune checkpoints. This study significantly contributes to understanding of the role of NK-like CD8(+) T cells and raises the question of the possible involvement of an iNKT/innate CD8(+) T cell axis in cancer.
To investigate the effects of rapamycin on cardiac differentiation, murine embryonic stem cells (ESCs) were induced into cardiomyocytes by 10-4 M ascorbic acid (AA), 20 nM rapamycin alone or 0.01% solvent DMSO. We found that rapamycin alone was insufficient to initiate cardiomyogenesis. Then, the ESCs were treated with AA and rapamycin (20 nM) or AA and DMSO (0.01%) as a control. Compared with control, mouse ESCs (mESCs) treated with rapamycin (20 nM) and AA yielded a significantly higher percentage of cardiomyocytes, as confirmed by the percentage of beating embryonic bodies (EBs), the immunofluorescence and FACS analysis. Rapamycin significantly increased the expression of a panel of cardiac markers including Gata4, α-Mhc, β-Mhc, and Tnnt2. Additionally, rapamycin enhanced the expression of mesodermal and cardiac transcription factors such as Mesp1, Brachyury T, Eomes, Isl1, Gata4, Nkx2.5, Tbx5, and Mef2c. Mechanistic studies showed that rapamycin inhibits Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling but promotes the expression of fibroblast growth factor (Fgf8), Fgf10, and Nodal at early stage, and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (Bmp 2) at later stages. Sequential treatment of rapamycin showed that rapamycin promotes cardiac differentiation at the early and later stages. Interestingly, another mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor Ku0063794 (1 µM) had similar effects on cardiomyogenesis. In conclusion, our results highlight a practical approach to generate cardiomyocytes from mESCs by rapamycin.
The transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) plays a crucial role in regulating cytotoxic function, development, and survival of immune cells. γδ T cells can express Eomes, but its contribution to their differentiation is unknown. Using Eomes-IRES-GFP mice, we show that Eomes+ γδ T cells are unequally distributed among organs, with the highest proportion in spleen. While the majority of Eomes+ γδ T cells expressed Vγ1+ and Vγ4+ TCRs, Eomes was absent in Vγ5+ , Vγ6+ , and Vγ7+ subsets. Moreover, Eomes was co-expressed in γδ T cells with Th1 lineage-related factors such as CD27, T-bet, and Ly6C, but not with Th17 lineage-related genes. Eomes+ and Eomes- γδ T-cell populations showed distinct gene expression profiles, with an increase of cytotoxic-related genes in Eomes+ γδ T cells. Furthermore, Eomes could be induced in peripheral γδ T cells by IL-12 and IL-4, and Eomes+ γδ T cells presented a higher proliferation rate and IFN-γ production when stimulated in vitro with IL-12 and IL-18. However, γδ T cells with very high Eomes levels displayed an exhausted phenotype with high levels of PD-1, and were less capable of IFN-γ production. Together, this study highlights Eomes as a marker for the differentiation of Th1-like effector γδ T cells.
Germ layer formation is among the earliest differentiation events in metazoan embryos. In triploblasts, three germ layers are formed, among which the endoderm gives rise to the epithelial lining of the gut tube and associated organs including the liver, pancreas and lungs. In frogs (Xenopus), where early germ layer formation has been studied extensively, the process of endoderm specification involves the interplay of dozens of transcription factors. Here, we review the interactions between these factors, summarized in a transcriptional gene regulatory network (GRN). We highlight regulatory connections conserved between frog, fish, mouse, and human endodermal lineages. Especially prominent is the conserved role and regulatory targets of the Nodal signaling pathway and the T-box transcription factors, Vegt and Eomes. Additionally, we highlight network topologies and motifs, and speculate on their possible roles in development.
Neocortical microcircuits are built during development and require the coordinated assembly of excitatory glutamatergic projection neurons (PNs) into functional networks. Neuronal migration is an essential step in this process. In addition to cell-intrinsic mechanisms, external cues including neurotransmitters regulate cortical neuron migration, suggesting that early activity could influence this process. Here, we aimed to investigate the role of cell-intrinsic activity in migrating PNs in vivo using a designer receptor exclusively activated by a designer drug (DREADD) chemogenetic approach. In utero electroporation was used to specifically express the human M3 muscarinic cholinergic Gq-coupled receptor (hM3Dq) in PNs and calcium activity, migratory dynamics, gene expression, and laminar positioning of PNs were assessed following embryonic DREADD activation. We found that transient embryonic DREADD activation induced premature branching and transcriptional changes in migrating PNs leading to a persistent laminar mispositioning of superficial layer PNs into deep cortical layers without affecting expression of layer-specific molecular identity markers. In addition, live imaging approaches indicated that embryonic DREADD activation increased calcium transients in migrating PNs and altered their migratory dynamics by increasing their pausing time. Taken together, these results support the idea that increased cell-intrinsic activity during migration acts as a stop signal for migrating cortical PNs.
Mouse liver contains two natural killer (NK) cell populations, one of which recirculates while the other is tissue resident. Following this discovery, several groups have sought to identify liver-resident NK (lrNK) cells in humans. Here, I present an overview of recent advances in the field.
Immaturity of the immune system of human fetuses and neonates is often invoked to explain their increased susceptibility to infection; however, the development of the fetal innate immune system in early life remains incompletely explored. We now show that the most mature NK cells found in adult (or postnatal) human circulation (CD94-CD16+) are absent during ontogeny. Human fetal NK cells were found to express the 2 signature T-box transcription factors essential for the development of all murine NK and NK-like cells, eomesodermin (Eomes) and T-bet. The single-cell pattern of Eomes and T-bet expression during ontogeny, however, revealed a stereotyped pattern of reciprocal dominance, with immature NK cells expressing higher amounts of Eomes and more mature NK cells marked by greater abundance of T-bet. We also observed a stereotyped pattern of tissue-specific NK cell maturation during human ontogeny, with fetal liver being more restrictive to NK cell maturity than fetal bone barrow, spleen, or lung. These results support the hypothesis that maturation of human NK cells has a discrete restriction until postnatal life, and provide a framework to better understand the increased susceptibility of fetuses and newborns to infection.
Exposure to maternal diabetes during fetal growth is a risk factor for the development of type II diabetes (T2D) in later life. Discovery of the mechanisms involved in this association should provide valuable background for therapeutic treatments. Early embryogenesis involves epigenetic changes including histone modifications. The bivalent histone methylation marks H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 are important for regulating key developmental genes during early fetal pancreas specification. We hypothesized that maternal hyperglycemia disrupted early pancreas development through changes in histone bivalency. A human embryonic stem cell line (VAL3) was used as the cell model for studying the effects of hyperglycemia upon differentiation into definitive endoderm (DE), an early stage of the pancreatic lineage. Hyperglycemic conditions significantly down-regulated the expression levels of DE markers SOX17, FOXA2, CXCR4 and EOMES during differentiation. This was associated with retention of the repressive histone methylation mark H3K27me3 on their promoters under hyperglycemic conditions. The disruption of histone methylation patterns was observed as early as the mesendoderm stage, with Wnt/β-catenin signaling being suppressed during hyperglycemia. Treatment with Wnt/β-catenin signaling activator CHIR-99021 restored the expression levels and chromatin methylation status of DE markers, even in a hyperglycemic environment. The disruption of DE development was also found in mouse embryos at day 7.5 post coitum from diabetic mothers. Furthermore, disruption of DE differentiation in VAL3 cells led to subsequent impairment in pancreatic progenitor formation. Thus, early exposure to hyperglycemic conditions hinders DE development with a possible relationship to the later impairment of pancreas specification.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2017 Apr;17(4):216-217.    Immunity. 2017 Mar 21;46(3):344-346.
CD4+ T cells with cytotoxic activity (CD4 CTL) have been observed in various immune responses. These cells are characterized by their ability to secrete granzyme B and perforin and to kill the target cells in an MHC class II-restricted fashion. Although CD4 CTLs were once thought to be an in vitro artifact associated with long-term culturing, they have since been identified in vivo and shown to play important roles in antiviral and antitumor immunity, as well as in inflammation. Functional characterization of CD4 CTL suggests their potential significance for therapeutic purposes. However, in order to develop effective CD4 CTL therapy it is necessary to understand the differentiation and generation of these cells. Although the mechanisms regulating development of various CD4+ Th subsets have been clarified in terms of the cytokine and transcription factor requirement, the CD4 CTL differentiation mechanism remains elusive. These cells are thought to be most closely related to Th1 cells secreting IFNγ and regulated by eomesodermin and/or T-bet transcription factors for their differentiation. However, our studies and those of others have identified CD4 CTLs within other CD4+ T cell subsets, including naïve T cells. We have identified class I-restricted T cell-associated molecule as a marker of CD4 CTL and, by using this marker, we detected a subset of naïve T cells that have the potential to differentiate into CD4 CTL. CD4 CTL develops at sites of infections as well as inflammation. In this review, we summarize recent findings about the generation of CD4 CTL and propose a model with several differentiation pathways.
Comment in    Eur J Immunol. 2017 May;47(5):797-799.
PROBLEM: Trophoblasts are known to decrease natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity. However, little is known about the interaction between trophoblasts and NK cells during pregnancy. Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is essential for priming NK cells and maximizing their effector functions. We investigated whether trophoblasts regulate NK cell activation via IL-15/IL-2 receptor and its signaling pathways.METHOD OF STUDY: Natural killer-92 cells were primed with human first-trimester trophoblast cells (Sw.71) conditioned medium (CM) and co-cultured with K562 cells. Flow cytometry, Western blot analysis, and real-time PCR were performed to assess NK cell cytotoxicity, IL-15/IL-2 receptor expression, phosphorylation of STAT5 and MAPKs, and mRNA expression of IL-15-related genes.RESULTS: Natural killer-92 cells incubated with Sw.71 CM showed reduced cytotoxicity and IL-15-mediated proliferation, and expression of IL-15/IL-2 receptor subunits. STAT5 phosphorylation, EOMES and T-bet mRNA expressions, and ERK/JNK pathways of NK 92 cells were suppressed by Sw.71 CM. Productions of perforin, granzyme B, and IFN-γ were also downregulated.CONCLUSION: Trophoblasts regulate human NK cell functions via suppression of IL-15/IL-2 receptor expression, transcription factors, and ERK/JNK pathways.
T-cell memory is critical for long-term immunity. However, the factors involved in maintaining the persistence, function, and phenotype of the memory pool are undefined. Eomesodermin (Eomes) is required for the establishment of the memory pool. Here, we show that in T cells transitioning to memory, the expression of high levels of Eomes is not constitutive but rather requires a continuum of cell-intrinsic NFκB signaling. Failure to maintain NFκB signals after the peak of the response led to impaired Eomes expression and a defect in the maintenance of CD8 T-cell memory. Strikingly, we found that antigen receptor [T-cell receptor (TCR)] signaling regulates this process through expression of the NFκB-dependent kinase proviral integration site for Moloney murine leukemia virus-1 (PIM-1), which in turn regulates NFκB and Eomes. T cells defective in TCR-dependent NFκB signaling were impaired in late expression of Pim-1, Eomes, and CD8 memory. These defects were rescued when TCR-dependent NFκB signaling was restored. We also found that NFκB-Pim-1 signals were required at memory to maintain memory CD8 T-cell longevity, effector function, and Eomes expression. Hence, an NFκB-Pim-1-Eomes axis regulates Eomes levels to maintain memory fitness.
The T-box transcription factor (TF) Eomes is a key regulator of cell fate decisions during early mouse development. The cis-acting regulatory elements that direct expression in the anterior visceral endoderm (AVE), primitive streak (PS) and definitive endoderm (DE) have yet to be defined. Here, we identified three gene-proximal enhancer-like sequences (PSE_a, PSE_b and VPE) that faithfully activate tissue-specific expression in transgenic embryos. However, targeted deletion experiments demonstrate that PSE_a and PSE_b are dispensable, and only VPE is required for optimal Eomes expression in vivo Embryos lacking this enhancer display variably penetrant defects in anterior-posterior axis orientation and DE formation. Chromosome conformation capture experiments reveal VPE-promoter interactions in embryonic stem cells (ESCs), prior to gene activation. The locus resides in a large (500 kb) pre-formed compartment in ESCs and activation during DE differentiation occurs in the absence of 3D structural changes. ATAC-seq analysis reveals that VPE, PSE_a and four additional putative enhancers display increased chromatin accessibility in DE that is associated with Smad2/3 binding coincident with transcriptional activation. By contrast, activation of the Eomes target genes Foxa2 and Lhx1 is associated with higher order chromatin reorganisation. Thus, diverse regulatory mechanisms govern activation of lineage specifying TFs during early development.
The effects of developmental exposure to 3,3'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN), a neurotoxicant that causes proximal axonopathy, on mouse hippocampal neurogenesis was examined. Pregnant mice were exposed to IDPN at 0, 600, or 1200 ppm in their drinking water from gestational day 6 to postnatal day (PND) 21. On PND 21, male offspring showed increased postmitotic neuron-specific NeuN-immunoreactive(+) granule cell numbers in the dentate subgranular zone (SGZ) and granule cell layer (GCL) and decreased glutamate receptor gene Grin2d levels in the dentate gyrus at 1200 ppm. On PND 77, decreased numbers were observed for TBR2+ progenitor cells in the SGZ at ≥600 ppm and GFAP+ stem cells, DCX+ progenitor cells and immature granule cells, NeuN+ immature and mature granule cells, PCNA+ proliferating cells in the SGZ and/or GCL, and immunoreactive cells for ARC or FOS, immediate-early gene products related to neuronal and synaptic plasticity, in the GCL at 1200 ppm. Additionally, at 1200 ppm of IDPN, downregulation of Kit, the gene encoding the stem cell factor (SCF) receptor, and upregulation of Kitl, encoding SCF, were observed in the dentate gyrus. Therefore, maternal IDPN exposure in mice affects neurogenesis involving glutamatergic signals at the end of developmental exposure, with late effects suppressing SGZ cell proliferation, reducing the broad range of granule cell lineage population, which may be responsible for SCF receptor downregulation. The upregulated SCF was likely a feedback response to the decreased receptor level. These results suggest that reduced SCF signaling may cause suppressed neuronal and synaptic plasticity.
Epigenetic changes, including CpG island hypermethylation, occur frequently in bladder cancer (BC) and may be exploited for BC detection and distinction between high-grade (HG) and low-grade (LG) disease. Genome-wide methylation analysis was performed using Agilent Human CpG Island Microarrays to determine epigenetic differences between LG and HG cases. Pathway enrichment analysis and functional annotation determined that the most frequently methylated pathways in HG BC were enriched for anterior/posterior pattern specification, embryonic skeletal system development, neuron fate commitment, DNA binding, and transcription factor activity. We identified 990 probes comprising a 32-gene panel that completely distinguished LG from HG based on methylation. Selected genes from this panel, EOMES, GP5, PAX6, TCF4, and ZSCAN12, were selected for quantitative polymerase chain reaction-based validation by MethyLight in an independent series (n=84) of normal bladder samples and LG and HG cases. GP5 and ZSCAN12, two novel methylated genes in BC, were significantly hypermethylated in HG versus LG BC (P≤.03). We validated our data in a second independent cohort of LG and HG BC cases (n=42) from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Probes representing our 32-gene panel were significantly differentially methylated in LG versus HG tumors (P≤.04). These results indicate the ability to distinguish normal tissue from cancer, as well as LG from HG, based on methylation and reveal important pathways dysregulated in HG BC. Our findings were corroborated using publicly available data sets from TCGA. Ultimately, the creation of a methylation panel, including GP5 and ZSCAN12, able to distinguish between disease phenotypes will improve disease management and patient outcomes.
HIV-specific CD8+ T cells demonstrate an exhausted phenotype associated with increased expression of inhibitory receptors, decreased functional capacity, and a skewed transcriptional profile, which are only partially restored by antiretroviral treatment (ART). Expression levels of the inhibitory receptor, T cell immunoglobulin and ITIM domain (TIGIT), the co-stimulatory receptor CD226 and their ligand PVR are altered in viral infections and cancer. However, the extent to which the TIGIT/CD226/PVR-axis is affected by HIV-infection has not been characterized. Here, we report that TIGIT expression increased over time despite early initiation of ART. HIV-specific CD8+ T cells were almost exclusively TIGIT+, had an inverse expression of the transcription factors T-bet and Eomes and co-expressed PD-1, CD160 and 2B4. HIV-specific TIGIThi cells were negatively correlated with polyfunctionality and displayed a diminished expression of CD226. Furthermore, expression of PVR was increased on CD4+ T cells, especially T follicular helper (Tfh) cells, in HIV-infected lymph nodes. These results depict a skewing of the TIGIT/CD226 axis from CD226 co-stimulation towards TIGIT-mediated inhibition of CD8+ T cells, despite early ART. These findings highlight the importance of the TIGIT/CD226/PVR axis as an immune checkpoint barrier that could hinder future "cure" strategies requiring potent HIV-specific CD8+ T cells.
Proteins of the large family of T-box transcription factors are implicated in a broad spectrum of developmental processes. Loss-of-function mutations of T-box(Tbx) factors frequently cause severe embryonic phenotypes, often resulting from defects in cell fate specification and lineage differentiation. This review summarizes current knowledge on the functions of the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) from postfertilization development until gastrulation stages of vertebrate embryos. Eomes exhibits evolutionary conserved functions in cell lineage specification and morphogenesis during gastrulation in all studied vertebrate model systems. In addition, during mammalian embryogenesis, Eomes is crucially required in extraembryonic tissues that are specific for intrauterine development. This chapter mainly focuses on mammalian development of mouse; however, common functions shared among other vertebrate model system, such as embryos of zebrafish and Xenopus laevis, will be compared in the context of specification cell lineages during gastrulation. Furthermore, this review recapitulates the current understanding of the molecular functions and transcriptional targets of Eomes as component of transcriptional complexes that guide cell-type specification and morphogenesis of early vertebrate embryos.
Members of the T-box gene family have diverse roles during embryogenesis and many play critical roles in the developing limb. This is exemplified by the fact that, in humans, mutations in T-box genes are associated with several congenital syndromes that include limb defects as part of their characteristic spectrum of abnormalities. T-box genes encode for evolutionary conserved transcription factors that include both transcriptional activators and repressors. The hallmark of T-box gene members is the presence of the eponymous DNA-binding T-box domain. There are 17 mammalian T-box genes, which based on the sequence homology of the T-box domain, are grouped into five subfamilies, namely, T, Tbx1, Tbx2, Tbx6, and Tbr1. At least nine T-box genes are expressed during limb development with distinct and dynamic expression patterns. All four members of Tbx2 subfamily (Tbx2, Tbx3, Tbx4, Tbx5) and three members of Tbx1 (Tbx1, Tbx15, Tbx18), Brachyury (T) and Eomes (Tbr2) are expressed in the developing limb.
T-box transcription factors play key roles in the regulation of developmental processes such as cell differentiation and migration. Mammals have 17 T-box genes, of which several regulate brain development. The Tbr1 subfamily of T-box genes is particularly important in development of the cerebral cortex, olfactory bulbs (OBs), and cerebellum. This subfamily is comprised of Tbr1, Tbr2 (also known as Eomes), and Tbx21. In developing cerebral cortex, Tbr2 and Tbr1 are expressed during successive stages of differentiation in the pyramidal neuron lineage, from Tbr2+ intermediate progenitors to Tbr1+ postmitotic glutamatergic neurons. At each stage, Tbr2 and Tbr1 regulate laminar and regional identity of cortical projection neurons, cell migration, and axon guidance. In the OB, Tbr1 subfamily genes regulate neurogenesis of mitral and tufted cells, and glutamatergic juxtaglomerular interneurons. Tbr2 is also prominent in the development of retinal ganglion cells in nonimage-forming pathways. Other regions that require Tbr2 or Tbr1 in development or adulthood include the cerebellum and adult dentate gyrus. In humans, de novo mutations in TBR1 are important causes of sporadic autism and intellectual disability. Further studies of T-box transcription factors will enhance our understanding of neurodevelopmental disorders and inform approaches to new therapies.
T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3 (Tim-3) is an important immune regulatory molecule in cancer immune system. However, expression and function of Tim-3 in monocytes/macrophages in cancer progression mainly remain unclear. In this study, we analyzed Tim-3 levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 62 gastric cancer patients and 45 healthy controls using flow cytometry and then associated Tim-3 levels with clinical pathological data from patients. We found Tim-3 level was significantly upregulated in monocytes from gastric cancer patients compared with those from healthy controls, and that upregulated Tim-3 levels associated with depth of tumor invasion and tumor lymph node metastasis and advanced clinical stages of gastric cancer patients. Furthermore, tumor-bearing mouse experiments revealed that Tim-3 level on monocytes/macrophages associated with xenograft formation and growth. In addition, culture of monocytes from healthy controls with gastric cancer cell-conditioned medium upregulated Tim-3 expression, but IL-10, TNF-α, IFN-γ, or GM-CSF treatment or T-bet, Eomes, and T-bet/Eomes double gene knockout did not affect Tim-3 levels in blood monocytes/macrophages from human or mouse, respectively. Gal-9/Tim-3 signal was able to significantly stimulate monocyte to secrete IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10, but not IL-1β, IL-12p70, or TNF-α in presence of LPS. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that Tim-3 expressed by monocyte/macrophages might be an important mechanism in gastric cancer progression.
Natural killer (NK) cells are innate lymphoid cells involved in the defense against virus-infected cells and tumor cells. NK cell phenotype and function is affected with age and cytomegalovirus (CMV) latent infection. Aging affects the frequency and phenotype of NK cells, and CMV infection also contributes to these alterations. Thus, a reduction of CD56bright NK cell subpopulation associated with age and an expansion of memory-like NK cells CD56dimCD57+NKG2C+ probably related to CMV seropositivity have been described. NK cells express T-bet and Eomes transcription factors that are necessary for the development of NK cells. Here, we analyze the effect of age and CMV seropositivity on the expression of CD300a and CD161 inhibitory receptors, and T-bet and Eomes transcription factors in NK cell subsets defined by the expression of CD56 and CD57. CD300a is expressed by the majority of NK cells. CD56bright NK cells express higher levels of CD300a than CD56dim NK cells. An increase in the expression of CD300a was associated with age, whereas a decreased expression of CD161 in CD56dim NK cells was associated with CMV seropositivity. In CD56dim NK cells, an increased percentage of CD57+CD300a+ and a reduction in the percentage of CD161+CD300a+ cells were found to be associated with CMV seropositivity. Regarding T-bet and Eomes transcription factors, CMV seropositivity was associated with a decrease of T-bethi in CD56dimCD57+ NK cells from young individuals, whereas Eomes expression was increased with CMV seropositivity in both CD56bright and CD56dimCD57+/- (from middle age and young individuals, respectively) and was decreased with aging in all NK subsets from the three group of age. In conclusion, CMV infection and age induce significant changes in the expression of CD300a and CD161 in NK cell subsets defined by the expression of CD56 and CD57. T-bet and Eomes are differentially expressed on NK cell subsets, and their expression is affected by CMV latent infection and aging.
NK cells are innate immune cells and have important roles in antiviral and antitumor immunity. Based on the transcriptional regulation, organ distribution, and cell function, NK cells have recently been further divided into cytotoxic conventional NK cells (cNK) and noncytotoxic helper-like group 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILC1s). It is well known that chronic alcohol consumption decreases peripheral NK cell number and cytolytic activity; however, the underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated. How chronic alcohol consumption affects ILC1s is, to our knowledge, completely unexplored. Herein, we used a well-established mouse model of chronic alcohol consumption to study the effects of alcohol on transcription factor expression, maturation, and cytokine production of cNK cells and ILC1s in various organs. We found that alcohol consumption significantly decreased Eomes-expressing cNK cells in all the examined organs, except BM, but did not significantly affect ILC1s. Alcohol consumption compromised cNK cell development and maturation. Exogenous IL-15/IL-15Rα treatment caused full recovery of Eomes-expressing cNK cell number and maturation. Taken together, our data indicated that chronic alcohol consumption decreases cNK cell number and cytolytic activity by arresting cNK cell development at the CD27+CD11b+ stage. This developmental arrest of NK cells results from a lack of IL-15 availability in the microenvironment. IL-15/IL-15Rα treatment can recover alcohol consumption-induced developmental defect in NK cells.
The gastrointestinal mucosa is an important site of HIV acquisition, viral replication, and pathogenesis. Immune cells in mucosal tissues frequently differ in phenotype and function from their non-mucosal counterparts. Although perforin-mediated cytotoxicity as measured in blood is a recognized correlate of HIV immune control, its role in gastrointestinal tissues is unknown. We sought to elucidate the cytotoxic features of rectal mucosal CD8+ T-cells in HIV infected and uninfected subjects. Perforin expression and lytic capacity were significantly reduced in rectal CD8+ T-cells compared with their blood counterparts, regardless of HIV clinical status; granzyme B (GrzB) was reduced to a lesser extent. Mucosal perforin and GrzB expression were higher in participants not on antiretroviral therapy compared with those on therapy and controls. Reduction in perforin and GrzB was not explained by differences in memory/effector subsets. Expression of T-bet and Eomesodermin was significantly lower in gut CD8+ T-cells compared with blood, and in vitro neutralization of TGF-β partially restored perforin expression in gut CD8+ T-cells. These findings suggest that rectal CD8+ T-cells are primarily non-cytotoxic, and phenotypically shaped by the tissue microenvironment. Further elucidation of rectal immune responses to HIV will inform the development of vaccines and immunotherapies targeted to mucosal tissues.
Human liver contains an Eomeshi population of NK cells that is not present in the blood. In this study, we show that these cells are characterized by a molecular signature that mediates their retention in the liver. By examining liver transplants where donors and recipients are HLA mismatched, we distinguish between donor liver-derived and recipient-derived leukocytes to show that Eomeslo NK cells circulate freely whereas Eomeshi NK cells are unable to leave the liver. Furthermore, Eomeshi NK cells are retained in the liver for up to 13 y. Therefore, Eomeshi NK cells are long-lived liver-resident cells. We go on to show that Eomeshi NK cells can be recruited from the circulation during adult life and that circulating Eomeslo NK cells are able to upregulate Eomes and molecules mediating liver retention under cytokine conditions similar to those in the liver. This suggests that circulating NK cells are a precursor of their liver-resident counterparts.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are a heterogeneous population of cells with diverse roles in immune responses. Three major groups of ILCs have been defined on the basis of similarity in their production of signature cytokines, developmental requirements, and phenotypic markers. Group 1 ILCs produce IFN-γ, express the T-box transcription factors (TF) T-bet and/or Eomesodermin (Eomes), group 2 ILCs secrete IL-5 and IL-13 and express the TF GATA-3, while group 3 ILCs produce IL-22 and IL-17 and express the TF RORgt. In this review, we will briefly overview each group in terms of phenotype, function and development and then focus more extensively on group 1 ILCs, expanding on their emerging diversity, their disparate functions and the differences between NK cells and ILC1.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the expression feature and biological functions of TREM-1 on tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in lung cancer.RESULTS: The levels of TREM-1 on tissue-infiltrating monocytes/macrophage from tumor nest were significantly lower than those from nonturmor tissue or peripheral blood samples. Clinical analysis indicated that the levels of TREM-1-related TAMs were significantly decreased during cancer stages progression. The tumor-bearing mouse model further confirmed that the expression of TREM-1 on TAMs was significantly decreased with tumor growth. In addition, we found the activation of TREM-1 could significantly enhance the secretion of IL-1β by TAM in vitro. Furthermore, T-bet but not Eomes was found to be the key transcription factor for the TREM-1 expression on monocytes/macrophage.METHODS: A total of 40 patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were enrolled in this study. The expression characteristics of TREM-1 in blood and tissue-infiltrating monocytes/macrophage were examined by flow cytometry analysis. After the treatment of TREM-1 antibody, which is an agonist of TREM-1, cytokines secreted by TAM were then analyzed. In LLC-tumor bearing mouse model, we further investigated the dynamic expression feature of TREM-1 on macrophage with tumor growth. Moreover, we explored the transcription factor for regulating TREM-1 expression on monocyes/macrophage with wildtype, T-bet Ko or Eomes Ko mice.CONCLUSION: The levels of TREM-1 were remarkably decreased during tumor progression. The low expression level of TREM-1 might be a characteristic for TAMs in lung cancer.
Hippocampal neurogenesis has been proposed to participate in a myriad of behavioral responses, both in basal states and in the context of neuropsychiatric disorders. Here, we identify activating protein 2γ (AP2γ, also known as Tcfap2c), originally described to regulate the generation of neurons in the developing cortex, as a modulator of adult hippocampal glutamatergic neurogenesis in mice. Specifically, AP2γ is present in a sub-population of hippocampal transient amplifying progenitors. There, it is found to act as a positive regulator of the cell fate determinants Tbr2 and NeuroD, promoting proliferation and differentiation of new glutamatergic granular neurons. Conditional ablation of AP2γ in the adult brain significantly reduced hippocampal neurogenesis and disrupted neural coherence between the ventral hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, it resulted in the precipitation of multimodal cognitive deficits. This indicates that the sub-population of AP2γ-positive hippocampal progenitors may constitute an important cellular substrate for hippocampal-dependent cognitive functions. Concurrently, AP2γ deletion produced significant impairments in contextual memory and reversal learning. More so, in a water maze reference memory task a delay in the transition to cognitive strategies relying on hippocampal function integrity was observed. Interestingly, anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors were not significantly affected. Altogether, findings open new perspectives in understanding the role of specific sub-populations of newborn neurons in the (patho)physiology of neuropsychiatric disorders affecting hippocampal neuroplasticity and cognitive function in the adult brain.
OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN: Here, we evaluated the distribution and functional profile of circulating CD27+ and CD27- γδ T-cell subsets in systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients to assess their potential role in this disorder.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Peripheral blood from 39 SSc patients and 20 healthy individuals was used in this study. The TCR-γδ repertoire, cytokine production and cytotoxic signatures of circulating γδ T-cell subsets were assessed by flow cytometry. Gene expression of EOMES, NKG2D and GZMA was evaluated by quantitative RT-PCR in both purified γδ T-cell subsets.RESULTS: Absolute numbers of γδ T-cell subsets were significantly decreased in SSc groups, likely reflecting their mobilization to the inflamed skin. Both γδ T-cell subsets preserved their relative proportions and Th1-type cytokine responses. However, cytotoxic properties showed significant disease-associated and subset-specific changes. SSc patients exhibited increased percentages of CD27+ γδ T cells expressing granzyme B or perforin and upregulated GZMA expression in diffuse cutaneous SSc. Conversely, EOMES and NKG2D were downregulated in both SSc γδ T-cell subsets vs. normal controls. Interestingly, patients with pulmonary fibrosis showed a biased TCR repertoire, with a selected expansion of effector Vγ9+ γδ T cells associated with increased frequency of cells expressing granzyme B, but decreased IFN-γ production.CONCLUSIONS: Significant alterations on circulating γδ T-cell subsets suggest a deregulated (increased) cytotoxic activity and thus enhanced pathogenic potential of CD27+ γδ T cells in SSc.
The transcription factor Foxo3 plays a crucial role in myeloid cell function but its role in lymphoid cells remains poorly defined. Here, we have shown that Foxo3 expression was increased after T cell receptor engagement and played a specific role in the polarization of CD4+ T cells toward pathogenic T helper 1 (Th1) cells producing interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and granulocyte monocyte colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Consequently, Foxo3-deficient mice exhibited reduced susceptibility to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. At the molecular level, we identified Eomes as a direct target gene for Foxo3 in CD4+ T cells and we have shown that lentiviral-based overexpression of Eomes in Foxo3-deficient CD4+ T cells restored both IFN-γ and GM-CSF production. Thus, the Foxo3-Eomes pathway is central to achieve the complete specialized gene program required for pathogenic Th1 cell differentiation and development of neuroinflammation.
PURPOSE: Therapy targeting CTLA-4 immune checkpoint provides increased survival in patients with advanced melanoma. However, immunotherapy is frequently associated with delayed and heterogeneous clinical responses and it is important to identify prognostic immunological correlates of clinical endpoints.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: 77 patients with stage III/IV melanoma were treated with ipilimumab alone every 3 weeks, during 9 weeks. Blood samples were collected at the baseline and before each dose for in depth immune monitoring.RESULTS: The median follow-up was 28 mo with a median survival of 7 mo. Survival and clinical benefit were significantly improved when absolute lymphocyte count at the baseline was above 1 × 10(9)/L. Notably, ipilimumab had a global effect on memory T cells, with an early increase of central and effector subsets in patients with disease control. By contrast, percentages of stem cell memory T cells (TSCM) gradually decreased despite stable absolute counts and sustained proliferation, suggesting a process of differentiation. Higher proportions of eomes(+) and Ki-67(+) T cells were observed, with enhanced skin homing potential and induction of cytotoxic markers.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that CTLA-4 blockade is able to reshape the memory subset with the potential involvement of Eomes and memory subsets including TSCM.
Erratum for    Front Immunol. 2014;5:217.
Peripheral natural killer (NK) cells upregulate T-bet and downregulate Eomes, the key transcription factors regulating NK cell maturation and function during the last maturation steps toward terminally differentiated effector cells. During this process, NK cells acquire killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR) and effector functions, such as cytotoxicity and target cell-induced cytokine production. Inhibitory KIR are pivotal in the control of effector functions, but whether they also modulate T-bet/Eomes expression is unknown. We have measured T-bet/Eomes levels, KIR expression, and effector functions of maturing CD94(neg)CD56(dim)NK cells using CD57 as surface marker for maturation. Our cohort consisted of 23 healthy blood donors (HBD) homozygous for the KIR A haplotype that contains only inhibitory KIR2DL1 (ligand HLA-C2), KIR2DL3 (ligand HLA-C1), and KIR3DL1 (ligand HLA-Bw4). We confirm that during maturation of NK cells, the number of KIR increases, levels of T-bet/Eomes are modulated, and that cells acquire effector functions, such as cytotoxicity (CD107) and target cell-induced cytokine production (TNF-α). Because maturation was associated with the increase of the number of KIR as well as with the modulation of T-bet/Eomes, the number of KIR correlated with the extent of T-bet/Eomes modulation. However, whether the KIR were triggered by their cognate HLA ligands or not had no impact on T-bet and Eomes expression, indicating that modulation of T-box transcription factors during NK cell maturation does not depend on signals conveyed by KIR. We discuss the relevance of this finding in the context of models of NK cell maturation while cautioning that results obtained in a perhaps quite heterogeneous cohort of HBD are not necessarily conclusive.
Activation of metabolic signalling by IL-15 is required for natural killer (NK) cell development. Here we show that Tsc1, a repressor of mTOR, is dispensable for the terminal maturation, survival and function of NK cells but is critical to restrict exhaustive proliferation of immature NK cells and activation downstream of IL-15 during NK cell development. Tsc1 is expressed in immature NK cells and is upregulated by IL-15. Haematopoietic-specific deletion of Tsc1 causes a marked decrease in the number of NK cells and compromises rejection of 'missing-self' haematopoietic tumours and allogeneic bone marrow. The residual Tsc1-null NK cells display activated, pro-apoptotic phenotype and elevated mTORC1 activity. Deletion of Raptor, a component of mTORC1, largely reverses these defects. Tsc1-deficient NK cells express increased levels of T-bet and downregulate Eomes and CD122, a subunit of IL-15 receptor. These results reveal a role for Tsc1-dependent inhibition of mTORC1 activation during immature NK cell development.
Erratum in    Cereb Cortex. 2017 Dec 1;27(12):5715.
Comment on    Eur J Immunol. 2016 Sep;46(9):2111-20.
Alteration in the expression of cell-surface proteins is a common consequence of malignant transformation. Natural killer (NK) cells use an array of germline-encoded activating and inhibitory receptors that scan for altered protein-expression patterns, but tumor evasion of detection by the immune system is now recognized as one of the hallmarks of cancer. NK cells display rapid and potent immunity to metastasis or hematological cancers, and major efforts are now being undertaken to fully exploit NK cell anti-tumor properties in the clinic. Diverse approaches encompass the development of large-scale NK cell-expansion protocols for adoptive transfer, the establishment of a microenvironment favorable to NK cell activity, the redirection of NK cell activity against tumor cells and the release of inhibitory signals that limit NK cell function. In this Review we detail recent advances in NK cell-based immunotherapies and discuss the advantages and limitations of these strategies.
Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a T-box transcription factor that has been implicated in the etiology of colorectal cancer and other human malignancies. We screened a panel of human primary colon cancers and patient-matched controls (n = 30) and detected Eomes overexpression at the mRNA and protein level. Similar results were obtained in a panel of rat colon tumors and adjacent normal-looking colonic mucosa (n = 24). In human colon cancer cells, forced overexpression of Eomes enhanced cell viability and protected against staurosporine-induced apoptosis. On the other hand, knocking down Eomes resulted in reduced cell viability, G2/M cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis induction. The apoptotic mechanism centered on the reciprocal downregulation of anti-apoptotic BIRC5 (Survivin) and upregulation of proapoptotic Bcl-2 modifying factor (BMF). In patients with colorectal cancer, high EOMES expression (n = 95) was associated with poor overall survival compared with individuals exhibiting low EOMES levels (n = 80). We conclude from the current investigation, and prior literature, that Eomes has a divergent role in cancer development, with evidence for tumor suppressor and oncogenic functions, depending on stage and tissue context. Further studies are warranted on the apoptotic mechanisms linked to the reciprocal regulation of BMF and BIRC5 in human colorectal cancers characterized by Eomes overexpression.
Developmental dyslexia is a common disorder with a strong genetic component, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are still unknown. Several candidate dyslexia-susceptibility genes, including KIAA0319, DYX1C1, and DCDC2, have been identified in humans. RNA interference experiments targeting these genes in rat embryos have shown impairments in neuronal migration, suggesting that defects in radial cortical migration could be involved in the disease mechanism of dyslexia. Here we present the first characterisation of a Kiaa0319 knockout mouse line. Animals lacking KIAA0319 protein do not show anatomical abnormalities in any of the layered structures of the brain. Neurogenesis and radial migration of cortical projection neurons are not altered, and the intrinsic electrophysiological properties of Kiaa0319-deficient neurons do not differ from those of wild-type neurons. Kiaa0319 overexpression in cortex delays radial migration, but does not affect final neuronal position. However, knockout animals show subtle differences suggesting possible alterations in anxiety-related behaviour and in sensorimotor gating. Our results do not reveal a migration disorder in the mouse model, adding to the body of evidence available for Dcdc2 and Dyx1c1 that, unlike in the rat in utero knockdown models, the dyslexia-susceptibility candidate mouse homolog genes do not play an evident role in neuronal migration. However, KIAA0319 protein expression seems to be restricted to the brain, not only in early developmental stages but also in adult mice, indicative of a role of this protein in brain function. The constitutive and conditional knockout lines reported here will be useful tools for further functional analyses of Kiaa0319.
The differentiation efficiency of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) into heart muscle cells (cardiomyocytes) is highly sensitive to culture conditions. To elucidate the regulatory mechanisms involved, we investigated hESCs grown on three distinct culture platforms: feeder-free Matrigel, mouse embryonic fibroblast feeders, and Matrigel replated on feeders. At the outset, we profiled and quantified their differentiation efficiency, transcriptome, transcription factor binding sites and DNA-methylation. Subsequent genome-wide analyses allowed us to reconstruct the relevant interactome, thereby forming the regulatory basis for implicating the contrasting differentiation efficiency of the culture conditions. We hypothesized that the parental expressions of FOXC1, FOXD1 and FOXQ1 transcription factors (TFs) are correlative with eventual cardiomyogenic outcome. Through WNT induction of the FOX TFs, we observed the co-activation of WNT3 and EOMES which are potent inducers of mesoderm differentiation. The result strengthened our hypothesis on the regulatory role of the FOX TFs in enhancing mesoderm differentiation capacity of hESCs. Importantly, the final proportions of cells expressing cardiac markers were directly correlated to the strength of FOX inductions within 72 hours after initiation of differentiation across different cell lines and protocols. Thus, we affirmed the relationship between early FOX TF expressions and cardiomyogenesis efficiency.
Trophoblast stem cells (TSCs) arise as a consequence of the first cell fate decision in mammalian development. They can be cultured in vitro, retaining the ability to self-renew and to differentiate into all subtypes of the trophoblast lineage, equivalent to the in vivo stem cell population giving rise to the fetal portion of the placenta. Therefore, TSCs offer a unique model to study placental development and embryonic versus extra-embryonic cell fate decision in vitro. From the blastocyst stage onwards, a distinct epigenetic barrier consisting of DNA methylation and histone modifications tightly separates both lineages. Here, we describe a protocol to fully overcome this lineage barrier by transient over-expression of trophoblast key regulators Tfap2c, Gata3, Eomes and Ets2 in murine embryonic fibroblasts. The induced trophoblast stem cells are able to self-renew and are almost identical to blastocyst derived trophoblast stem cells in terms of morphology, marker gene expression and methylation pattern. Functional in vitro and in vivo assays confirm that these cells are able to differentiate along the trophoblast lineage generating polyploid trophoblast giant cells and chimerizing the placenta when injected into blastocysts. The induction of trophoblast stem cells from somatic tissue opens new avenues to study genetic and epigenetic characteristics of this extra-embryonic lineage and offers the possibility to generate trophoblast stem cell lines without destroying the respective embryo.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) function to protect epithelial barriers against pathogens and maintain tissue homeostasis in both barrier and non-barrier tissues. Here, utilizing Eomes reporter mice, we identify a subset of adipose group 1 ILC (ILC1) and demonstrate a role for these cells in metabolic disease. Adipose ILC1s were dependent on the transcription factors Nfil3 and T-bet but phenotypically and functionally distinct from adipose mature natural killer (NK) and immature NK cells. Analysis of parabiotic mice revealed that adipose ILC1s maintained long-term tissue residency. Diet-induced obesity drove early production of interleukin (IL)-12 in adipose tissue depots and led to the selective proliferation and accumulation of adipose-resident ILC1s in a manner dependent on the IL-12 receptor and STAT4. ILC1-derived interferon-γ was necessary and sufficient to drive proinflammatory macrophage polarization to promote obesity-associated insulin resistance. Thus, adipose-resident ILC1s contribute to obesity-related pathology in response to dysregulated local proinflammatory cytokine production.
An effective therapeutic vaccine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, as an adjunct to newly developed directly-acting antivirals (DAA), or for the prevention of reinfection, would significantly reduce the global burden of disease associated with chronic HCV infection. A recombinant chimpanzee adenoviral (ChAd3) vector and a modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA), encoding the non-structural proteins of HCV (NSmut), used in a heterologous prime/boost regimen induced multi-specific, high-magnitude, durable HCV-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses in healthy volunteers, and was more immunogenic than a heterologous Ad regimen. We now assess the immunogenicity of this vaccine regimen in HCV infected patients (including patients with a low viral load suppressed with interferon/ribavirin therapy), determine T-cell cross-reactivity to endogenous virus, and compare immunogenicity with that observed previously in both healthy volunteers and in HCV infected patients vaccinated with the heterologous Ad regimen. Vaccination of HCV infected patients with ChAd3-NSmut/MVA-NSmut was well tolerated. Vaccine-induced HCV-specific T-cell responses were detected in 8/12 patients; however, CD4+ T-cell responses were rarely detected, and the overall magnitude of HCV-specific T-cell responses was markedly reduced when compared to vaccinated healthy volunteers. Furthermore, HCV-specific cells had a distinct partially-functional phenotype (lower expression of activation markers, granzyme B, and TNFα production, weaker in vitro proliferation, and higher Tim3 expression, with comparable Tbet and Eomes expression) compared to healthy volunteers. Robust anti-vector T-cells and antibodies were induced, showing that there is no global defect in immunity. The level of viremia at the time of vaccination did not correlate with the magnitude of the vaccine-induced T-cell response. Full-length, next-generation sequencing of the circulating virus demonstrated that T-cells were only induced by vaccination when there was a sequence mismatch between the autologous virus and the vaccine immunogen. However, these T-cells were not cross-reactive with the endogenous viral variant epitopes. Conversely, when there was complete homology between the immunogen and circulating virus at a given epitope T-cells were not induced. T-cell induction following vaccination had no significant impact on HCV viral load. In vitro T-cell culture experiments identified the presence of T-cells at baseline that could be expanded by vaccination; thus, HCV-specific T-cells may have been expanded from pre-existing low-level memory T-cell populations that had been exposed to HCV antigens during natural infection, explaining the partial T-cell dysfunction. In conclusion, vaccination with ChAd3-NSmut and MVA-NSmut prime/boost, a potent vaccine regimen previously optimized in healthy volunteers was unable to reconstitute HCV-specific T-cell immunity in HCV infected patients. This highlights the major challenge of overcoming T-cell exhaustion in the context of persistent antigen exposure.
Comment in    Eur J Immunol. 2016 Sep;46(9):2095-8.
The role of type III transforming growth factor-β receptor (TβRIII) in the pathogenesis of heart diseases remains largely unclear. Here, we investigated the functional role and molecular mechanisms of TβRIII in the development of myocardial hypertrophy. Western blot and quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction analyses revealed that the expression of TβRIII was significantly elevated in human cardiac hypertrophic samples. Consistently, TβRIII expression was substantially increased in transverse aortic constriction (TAC)- and isoproterenol-induced mouse cardiac hypertrophy in vivo and in isoproterenol-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in vitro. Overexpression of TβRIII resulted in cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, whereas isoproterenol-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy was greatly attenuated by knockdown of TβRIII in vitro. Cardiac-specific transgenic expression of TβRIII independently led to cardiac hypertrophy in mice, which was further aggravated by isoproterenol and TAC treatment. Cardiac contractile function of the mice was not altered in TβRIII transgenic mice; however, TAC led to significantly decreased cardiac contractile function in TβRIII transgenic mice compared with control mice. Conversely, isoproterenol- and TAC-induced cardiac hypertrophy and TAC-induced cardiac contractile function impairment were partially reversed by suppression of TβRIII in vivo. Our data suggest that TβRIII mediates stress-induced cardiac hypertrophy through activation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, which requires a physical interaction of β-arrestin2 with both TβRIII and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Our findings indicate that stress-induced increase in TβRIII expression results in cardiac hypertrophy through β-arrestin2-dependent activation of calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and that transforming growth factor-β and β-adrenergic receptor signaling are not involved in spontaneous cardiac hypertrophy in cardiac-specific transgenic expression of TβRIII mice. Our findings may provide a novel target for control of myocardial hypertrophy.
Comment in    CD4+ T cells expressing PD-1, TIGIT and LAG-3 contribute to HIV persistence during ART.
BACKGROUND: Aspergillosis infection is common in the patients with insufficient immunity. The role of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), T-box expressed in T-cells (T-bet), and eomesodermin (EOMES) in mediating T lymphocytes differentiation in response to Aspergillus fumigatus infection in immunocompromised rats was investigated in this study.METHODS: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) of immunosuppressive twenty male rats were established and sacrificed at 24 h (n = 5), 48 h (n = 5), 72 h (n = 5), and 96 h (n = 5) after A. fumigatus infection. In addition, control (n = 5), cyclophosphamide (CTX) (n = 5), and aspergillosis (n = 5) group were also established the tissues and pathology of lung tissue was examined by hematoxylin and eosin staining. CD8+ T-cells was sorted by flow cytometry. Serum mTOR, S6K, T-bet, and EOMES were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.RESULTS: Histology of lung tissue indicated severe lung tissue injury including infiltration of inflammatory cells, alveolar wall damage or degradation, blood congestion, and hemorrhage in the CTX, IPA, and CTX + IPA rats. Hyphae were seen in the IPA, and CTX + IPA groups. The proportion of CD8+ T-cells was significantly increased in the animals of CTX + IPA. Memory CD8+ T-cells was significantly increased in early stage (24 h and 48 h, P < 0.001), but decreased in the late phase of fungal infection (72 h and 96 h) in the animals of CTX + IPA. In addition, at early stage of fungal infection (24 h and 48 h), serum mTOR (P < 0.001), S6K (P < 0.001), and T-bet (P < 0.05) was significantly higher, while EOMES was significantly lower (P < 0.001), in CTX + IPA group than that in control, CTX alone or IPA alone group. Conversely, serum mTOR, S6K, T-bet, and EOMES showed opposite changed in the late stage (72 h and 96 h). Pearson's correlation analysis indicated that mTOR and S6K were significantly correlated with T-bet (r = 0.901 and 0.91, respectively, P < 0.001), but negatively and significantly correlated with EOMES (r = -0.758 and -0.751, respectively, P < 0.001).CONCLUSIONS: mTOR may regulate transcription factors of EOMES and T-bet, and by which mechanism, it may modulate lymphocytes differentiation in animals with immune suppression and fungal infection.
Artificial collapse of the blastocoel cavity before vitrification can improve the quality of warmed embryos, yet how reduction of blastocoel fluid impacts formation of the blastocyst cell lineages is not clear. The present study assessed the effect of pre-vitrification blastocoel fluid reduction on the survival, hatching rate, and the expression of genes related to apoptosis (Tp53), pluripotency (Pou5f1, Nanog), and differentiation (Cdx2, Eomes, Gata6) in mouse blastocysts. In vivo-produced blastocysts were randomly divided into three groups: The first group was vitrified and warmed; the second group underwent artificial collapse of the blastocoel cavity prior to vitrification and warming; the third group served as the control, in which neither vitrification or artificial collapse was performed. The survival rate of treatment groups was similar to the control group, whereas the hatching rate of artificial collapse/vitrified blastocysts was significantly higher than vitrified blastocysts. Quantitative reverse-transcription PCR analysis revealed a considerable reduction in the expression of Cdx2, Eomes, Gata6, Grb2, and Tp53 transcripts following artificial collapse/vitrification in comparison to the vitrification-alone group; the abundance of Pou5f1 and Nanog, however, did not change. These results suggest that artificial collapse of the blastocoel cavity before vitrification leads to relatively normal expression of apoptosis and development-related genes plus higher hatching rates. Mol. Reprod. Dev. 83: 735-742, 2016 © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Recent reports give insights into the role of the T-box transcription factors, T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes), in NK cell biology. In this mini-review, we recapitulate the initial reports that delineate T-bet and Eomes as master regulators of NK cell development, maturation, and function. We discuss how T-bet and Eomes expression is regulated during NK cell development and peripheral maturation. Furthermore, we summarize the current literature on the role of T-bet and Eomes in the transcriptional regulation of NK cell function and review possible effects of T-box transcription factor anomalies during aging, infection, cancer, and after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. We discuss how the current data argue in favor of a model of T-bet and Eomes synergy in transcriptional regulation of NK cell function and identify T-box transcription factors as potential targets for therapeutic interventions.
Human natural killer (NK) cells develop in secondary lymphoid tissues (SLTs) through distinct stages. We identified two SLT lineage (Lin)(-)CD34(-)CD117(+/-)CD94(+)CD16(-) "stage 4" subsets according to expression of the C-type lectin-like surface-activating receptor, NKp80: NKp80(-) (stage "4a") and NKp80(+) (stage "4b"). Whereas stage 4b cells expressed more of the transcription factors T-BET and EOMES, produced interferon-gamma, and were cytotoxic, stage 4a cells expressed more of the transcription factors RORγt and AHR and produced interleukin-22, similar to SLT Lin(-)CD34(-)CD117(+)CD94(-)CD16(-) "stage 3" cells, whose phenotype overlaps with that of group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s). Co-culture with dendritic cells or transplantation into immunodeficient mice produced mature NK cells from stage 3 and stage 4a populations. These data identify NKp80 as a marker of NK cell maturity in SLTs and support a model of human NK cell development through a stage 4a intermediate with ILC3-associated features.
Whereas innate immune cells, such as NK and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), have been characterized in different human tissues, knowledge on the thymic CD56-expressing cell subsets is limited. In this study, the rare subpopulations of thymic CD56+CD3- cells from samples of >100 patients have been successfully analyzed. The results revealed fundamental differences between thymic and peripheral blood (PB) CD56+CD3- cells. Thymic tissues lacked immunoregulatory CD56highCD16dim NK cells but showed two Eomes+CD56dim subsets on which common NK cell markers were significantly altered. CD56dimCD16high cells expressed high amounts of NKG2A, NKG2D, and CD27 with low CD57. Conversely, CD56dimCD16dim cells displayed high CD127 but low expression of KIR, NKG2D, and natural cytotoxicity receptors (NCRs). Thymic CD56+CD3- cells were able to gain cytotoxicity but were especially immunoregulatory cells, producing a broad range of cytokines. Finally, one population of thymic CD56+ cells resembled conventional NK cells, whereas the other represented a novel, noncanonical NK subset.
Osteoimmunology arose from the recognition that cytokines produced by lymphocytes can affect bone homeostasis. We have previously shown that osteoclasts, cells that resorb bone, act as APCs. Cross-presentation of Ags by osteoclasts leads to expression of CD25 and Foxp3, markers of regulatory T cells in the CD8 T cells. Octeoclast-induced Foxp3(+) CD25(+) regulatory CD8 T cells (OC-iTcREG) suppress priming of CD4 and CD8 T cells by dendritic cells. OC-iTcREG also limit bone resorption by osteoclasts, forming a negative feedback loop. In this study, we show that OC-iTcREG express concurrently T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes) and IFN-γ. Pharmacological inhibition of IκK blocked IFN-γ, T-bet, and Eomes production by TcREG Furthermore, we show, using chromatin immunoprecipitation, NF-κB enrichment in the T-bet and Eomes promoters. We demonstrate that IFN-γ produced by TcREG is required for suppression of osteoclastogenesis and for degradation of TNFR-associated factor 6 in osteoclast precursors. The latter prevents signaling by receptor activator of NF-κB ligand needed for osteoclastogenesis. Knockout of IFN-γ rendered TcREG inefficient in preventing actin ring formation in osteoclasts, a process required for bone resorption. TcREG generated in vivo using IFN-γ(-/-) T cells had impaired ability to protect mice from bone resorption and bone loss in response to high-dose receptor activator of NF-κB ligand. The results of this study demonstrate a novel link between NF-κB signaling and induction of IFN-γ in TcREG and establish an important role for IFN-γ in TcREG-mediated protection from bone loss.
Intermediate progenitors (IPs) amplify the production of pyramidal neurons, but their role in selective genesis of cortical layers or neuronal subtypes remains unclear. Using genetic lineage tracing in mice, we find that IPs destined to produce upper cortical layers first appear early in corticogenesis, by embryonic day 11.5. During later corticogenesis, IP laminar fates are progressively limited to upper layers. We examined the role of Tbr2, an IP-specific transcription factor, in laminar fate regulation using Tbr2 conditional mutant mice. Upon Tbr2 inactivation, fewer neurons were produced by immediate differentiation and laminar fates were shifted upward. Genesis of subventricular mitoses was, however, not reduced in the context of a Tbr2-null cortex. Instead, neuronal and laminar differentiation were disrupted and delayed. Our findings indicate that upper-layer genesis depends on IPs from many stages of corticogenesis and that Tbr2 regulates the tempo of laminar fate implementation for all cortical layers.
The neocortex contains hundreds to thousands of distinct subtypes of precisely connected neurons, allowing it to perform remarkably complex tasks of high-level cognition. Callosal projection neurons (CPN) connect the cerebral hemispheres via the corpus callosum, integrating cortical information and playing key roles in associative cognition. CPN are a strikingly diverse set of neuronal subpopulations, and development of this diversity requires precise control by a complex, interactive set of molecular effectors. We have found that the transcriptional coregulator Cited2 regulates and refines two stages of CPN development. Cited2 is expressed broadly by progenitors in the embryonic day 15.5 subventricular zone, during the peak of superficial layer CPN birth, with a progressive postmitotic refinement in expression, becoming restricted to CPN of the somatosensory cortex postnatally. We generated progenitor-stage and postmitotic forebrain-specific Cited2 conditional knock-out mice, using the Emx1-Cre and NEX-Cre mouse lines, respectively. We demonstrate that Cited2 functions in progenitors, but is not necessary postmitotically, to regulate both (1) broad generation of layer II/III CPN and (2) acquisition of precise area-specific molecular identity and axonal/dendritic connectivity of somatosensory CPN. This novel CPN subtype-specific and area-specific control from progenitor action of Cited2 adds yet another layer of complexity to the multistage developmental regulation of neocortical development.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study identifies Cited2 as a novel subtype-specific and area-specific control over development of distinct subpopulations within the broad population of callosal projection neurons (CPN), whose axons connect the two cerebral hemispheres via the corpus callosum (CC). Currently, how the remarkable diversity of CPN subtypes is specified, and how they differentiate to form highly precise and specific circuits, are largely unknown. We found that Cited2 functions within subventricular zone progenitors to both broadly regulate generation of superficial layer CPN throughout the neocortex, and to refine precise area-specific development and connectivity of somatosensory CPN. Gaining insight into molecular development and heterogeneity of CPN will advance understanding of both diverse functions of CPN and of the remarkable range of neurodevelopmental deficits correlated with CPN/CC development.
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms near the interferon lambda 3 (IFNL3) gene predict outcomes to infection and anti-viral treatment in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. To identify IFNL3 genotype effects on peripheral blood, we collected phenotype data on 400 patients with genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C (CHC). The IFNL3 responder genotype predicted significantly lower white blood cells (WBCs), as well as lower absolute numbers of monocytes, neutrophils and lymphocytes for both rs8099917 and rs12979860. We sought to define the WBC subsets driving this association using flow cytometry of 67 untreated CHC individuals. Genotype-associated differences were seen in the ratio of CD4CD45RO+ to CD4CD45RO-; CD8CD45RO+ to CD8CD45RO-, NK CD56 dim to bright and monocyte numbers and percentages. Whole blood expression levels of IFNL3, IFNLR1 (interferon lambda receptor 1), IFNLR1-mem (a membrane-associated receptor), IFNLR1-sol (a truncated soluble receptor), MxA and T- and NK (natural killer) cell transcription factors TBX21, GATA3, RORC, FOXP3 and EOMES in two subjects were also determined. CHC patients demonstrated endogenous IFN activation with higher levels of MxA, IFNLR1, IFNLR1-mem and IFNLR1-sol, and IFNL3 genotype-associated differences in transcription factors. Taken together, these data provide evidence of an IFNL3 genotype association with differences in monocyte, T- and NK cell levels in the peripheral blood of patients with CHC. This could underpin genotype associations with spontaneous and treatment-induced HCV clearance and hepatic necroinflammation.
Despite of the potential implications for cancer immunotherapy, conventional approaches using in vitro expanded CD8(+) T cells have suboptimal outcomes, mostly due to loss of functionality from cellular exhaustion. We therefore investigated the phenotypic and functional differences among in vitro activated CD8(+) T cells of three different sources, namely naïve (NTeff), memory (MTeff) and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILeff) from human and mice, to better understand mechanisms behind potent effector functions and potential for overcoming current limitations. In line with the greater proliferation activity and longer telomere lengths of NTeff populations, cells of naïve origin exhibited significantly less amounts of T cell exhaustion markers than those of MTeff and TILeff, and moreover, acquired distinct expression patterns of memory-promoting transcription factors, T-bet and Eomes, induced in a rapid and sustainable manner. NTeff cells appeared to have lower expression of Foxp1 and were refractory to apoptosis upon TGF-β conditioning, implying better survival potential and resistance to tumor-induced immune suppression. Of CD8(+) T cell pools activated to tumor-specific CTLs, naïve cell generated effectors possessed the most potent cytotoxic activity, validating implications for use in rational design of adoptive immunotherapy.
Previous studies have revealed that a population of innate memory CD8(+) T cells is generated in response to IL-4, first appearing in the thymus and bearing high expression levels of Eomesodermin (Eomes) but not T-bet. However, the antigen specificity and functional properties of these cells is poorly defined. In this study, we show that IL-4 regulates not only the frequency and function of innate memory CD8(+) T cells, but also regulates Eomes expression levels and functional reactivity of naive CD8(+) T cells. Lack of IL-4 responsiveness attenuates the capacity of CD8(+) T cells to mount a robust response to lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection, with both quantitative and qualitative effects on effector and memory antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells. Unexpectedly, we found that, although numerically rare, memory phenotype CD8(+) T cells in IL-4Rα-deficient mice exhibited enhanced reactivity after in vitro and in vivo stimulation. Importantly, our data revealed that these effects of IL-4 exposure occur before, not during, infection. Together, these data show that IL-4 influences the entire peripheral CD8(+) T cell pool, influencing expression of T-box transcription factors, functional reactivity, and the capacity to respond to infection. These findings indicate that IL-4, a canonical Th2 cell cytokine, can sometimes promote rather than impair Th1 cell-type immune responses.
MAIT cells represent an evolutionarily conserved, MR1-restricted, innate-like cell subset that express high levels of CD161; have a canonical semi-invariant TCR iVα7.2; and may have an important role in mucosal immunity against various bacterial and fungal pathogens. Mature MAIT cells are CD161(hi)PLZF(hi)IL-18Rα(+)iVα7.2(+)γδ-CD3(+)CD8(+) T cells and occur in the peripheral blood, liver, and mucosa of humans. MAIT cells are activated by a metabolic precursor of riboflavin synthesis presented by MR1 and, therefore, respond to many bacteria and some fungi. Despite their broad antibacterial properties, their functional role in persistent viral infections is poorly understood. Although there is an increasing line of evidence portraying the depletion of MAIT cells in HIV disease, the magnitude and the potential mechanisms underlying such depletion remain unclear. Recent studies suggest that MAIT cells are vulnerable to immune exhaustion as a consequence of HIV and hepatitis C virus infections and HIV/tuberculosis coinfections. HIV infection also appears to cause functional depletion of MAIT cells resulting from abnormal expression of T-bet and EOMES, and effective ART is unable to completely salvage functional MAIT cell loss. Depletion and exhaustion of peripheral MAIT cells may affect mucosal immunity and could increase susceptibility to opportunistic infections during HIV infection. Here, we review some of the important mechanisms associated with depletion and functional loss of MAIT cells and also suggest potential immunotherapeutic strategies to restore MAIT cell functions, including the use of IL-7 to restore effector functions in HIV disease.
Cadherin switching from E-cadherin (E-cad) to N-cadherin (N-cad) is a key step of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) processes that occurs during gastrulation and cancer progression. We investigate whether cadherins actively participate in progression of EMT by crosstalk to signaling pathways. We apply ectopic cadherin switching before the onset of mouse gastrulation. Mutants with an induced E-cad to N-cad switch (Ncadki) die around E8.5. Severe morphological changes including a small epiblast, a rounded shape, an enlarged extra-embryonic compartment and lack of the amnion, combined with a massive cell detachment from the ectodermal layer are detected. In contrast to epiblast-specific E-cad depletion, gastrulation is initiated in Ncadki embryos, but patterning of the germ-layers is abnormal. An overall reduction in BMP signaling, expansion of Nodal and Eomes domains, combined with reduced Wnt3a expression at the primitive streak is observed. Our results show that in addition to cadherin-dependent adhesion, proper embryonic development requires E-cad mediated signaling function to facilitate a feedback loop that stabilizes Bmp4 and Bmp2 expression in the extraembryonic ectoderm and sustained downstream activity in the epiblast. Moreover, for proper morphogenesis a fine-tuned spatio-temporal control of cadherin switching is required during EMT at gastrulation to avoid premature cell detachment and migration.
Author information:(1)Department of Immunology, National Institute of Neuroscience, NCNP.
Natural killer cells (NK) are highly enriched in the human liver, where they can regulate immunity and immunopathology. We probed them for a liver-resident subset, distinct from conventional bone-marrow-derived NK. CXCR6+ NK were strikingly enriched in healthy and diseased liver compared to blood (p < 0.0001). Human hepatic CXCR6+ NK had an immature phenotype (predominantly CD56(bright)CD16-CD57-), and expressed the tissue-residency marker CD69. CXCR6+ NK produced fewer cytotoxic mediators and pro-inflammatory cytokines than the non-liver-specific CXCR6- fraction. Instead CXCR6+ NK could upregulate TRAIL, a key death ligand in hepatitis pathogenesis. CXCR6 demarcated liver NK into two transcriptionally distinct populations: T-bet(hi)Eomes(lo)(CXCR6-) and T-bet(lo)Eomes(hi)(CXCR6+); the latter was virtually absent in the periphery. The small circulating CXCR6+ subset was predominantly T-bet(hi)Eomes(lo), suggesting its lineage was closer to CXCR6- peripheral than CXCR6+ liver NK. These data reveal a large subset of human liver-resident T-bet(lo)Eomes(hi) NK, distinguished by their surface expression of CXCR6, adapted for hepatic tolerance and inducible anti-viral immunity.
The rapalogs everolimus and temsirolimus that inhibit mTOR signaling are used as antiproliferative drugs in several cancers. Here we investigated the influence of rapalogs-mediated immune modulation on their antitumor efficacy. Studies in metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients showed that everolimus promoted high expansion of FoxP3 (+)Helios(+)Ki67(+) regulatory CD4 T cells (Tregs). In these patients, rapalogs strongly enhanced the suppressive functions of Tregs, mainly in a contact-dependent manner. Paradoxically, a concurrent activation of spontaneous tumor-specific Th1 immunity also occurred. Furthermore, a high rate of Eomes(+)CD8(+) T cells was detected in patients after a long-term mTOR inhibition. We found that early changes in the Tregs/antitumor Th1 balance can differentially shape the treatment efficacy. Patients presenting a shift toward decreased Tregs levels and high expansion of antitumor Th1 cells showed better clinical responses. Studies conducted in tumor-bearing mice confirmed the deleterious effect of rapalogs-induced Tregs via a mechanism involving the inhibition of antitumor T-cell immunity. Consequently, the combination of temsirolimus plus CCR4 antagonist, a receptor highly expressed on rapalogs-exposed Tregs, was more effective than monotherapy. Altogether, our results describe for the first time a dual impact of host adaptive antitumor T-cell immunity on the clinical effectiveness of rapalogs and prompt their association with immunotherapies. Cancer Res; 76(14); 4100-12. ©2016 AACR.
A unique population of cells, called "lot cells," circumscribes the path of the lateral olfactory tract (LOT) in the rodent brain and acts to restrict its position at the lateral margin of the telencephalon. Lot cells were believed to originate in the dorsal pallium (DP). We show that Lhx2 null mice that lack a DP show a significant increase in the number of mGluR1/lot cells in the piriform cortex, indicating a non-DP origin of these cells. Since lot cells present common developmental features with Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells, we analyzed Wnt3a- and Dbx1-reporter mouse lines and found that mGluR1/lot cells are not generated in the cortical hem, ventral pallium, or septum, the best characterized sources of CR cells. Finally, we identified a novel origin for the lot cells by combining in utero electroporation assays and histochemical characterization. We show that mGluR1/lot cells are specifically generated in the lateral thalamic eminence and that they express mitral cell markers, although a minority of them express ΔNp73 instead. We conclude that most mGluR1/lot cells are prospective mitral cells migrating to the accessory olfactory bulb (OB), whereas mGluR1+, ΔNp73+ cells are CR cells that migrate through the LOT to the piriform cortex and the OB.
Unlike conventional T cells, innate CD8 T cells develop a memory-like phenotype in the thymus and immediately respond upon antigen stimulation, similar to memory T cells. The development of innate CD8 T cells in the thymus is known to require IL-4, which upregulates Eomesodermin (Eomes). These features are similar to that of virtual memory CD8 T cells and IL-4-induced memory-like CD8 T cells generated in the peripheral tissues. However, the relationship between these cell types has not been clearly documented. In the present study, IL-4-induced memory-like CD8 T cells generated in the peripheral tissues were compared with innate CD8 T cells in terms of phenotype and function. When an IL-4/anti-IL-4 antibody complex (IL-4C) was injected into C57BL/6 mice daily for 7 days, the Eomes(hi)CXCR3 (+) CD8 T cell population was markedly increased in the peripheral lymphoid organs and blood. These cells were generated from naïve CD8 T cells or accumulated via the expansion of pre-existing CD44(hi)CXCR3 (+) CD8 T cells. Initially, the majority of these CXCR3 (+) CD8 T cells expressed low levels of CD44, which was followed by the conversion to the CD44(hi) phenotype. This conversion was associated with the acquisition of enhanced effector function. After discontinuation of IL-4C treatment, Eomes expression levels gradually decreased in CXCR3 (+) CD8 T cells. Taken together, the results of this study demonstrate that IL-4-induced memory-like CD8 T cells generated in the peripheral lymphoid tissues are phenotypically and functionally similar to the innate CD8 T cells generated in the thymus.
BACKGROUND: Lymphopenia promotes naïve T-cell homeostatic proliferation and adoptive effector T-cell survival and memory formation. IL-7 plays a critical role in homeostatic proliferation, survival and memory formation of naïve T-cells in lymphopenia, and its underlying molecular mechanism has also been well studied. However, the mechanism for adoptively transferred effector T-cell survival and memory formation is not fully understood. Here, we transferred in vitro-activated transgenic OT-I CD8(+) effector T-cells into irradiation (600 rads)-induced lymphopenic C57BL/6, IL-7 knockout (KO) and IL-15 KO mice, and investigated the survival and memory formation of transferred T-cells in lymphopenia.RESULTS: We demonstrate that transferred T-cells prolong their survival and enhance their memory in lymphopenic mice, in a manner that depends on IL-15 signaling, but not IL-7. We determine that in vitro stimulation of naïve or effector T-cells with IL-7 and IL-15 reduces IL-7Rα, and increases and/or maintains IL-15Rβ expression, respectively. Consistent with these findings, the expression of IL-7Rα and IL-15Rβ is down- and up-regulated, respectively, in vivo on transferred T-cells in an early phase post T-cell transfer in lymphopenia. We further show that in vitro IL-15 restimulation-induced memory T-cells (compared to IL-2 restimulation-induced effector T-cells) and in vivo transferred T-cells in irradiated IL-15-sufficient C57BL/6 mice (compared to IL-15-deficient IL-15 KO mice) have increased mitochondrial content, but less NADH and lower mitochondrial potential (ΔΨm), and demonstrate greater phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription-5 (STAT5) and Unc-51-like kinase-1 (ULK1), and higher expression of B-cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 (Bcl2) and memory-, autophagy- and mitochondrial biogenesis-related molecules.CONCLUSION: Irradiation-induced lymphopenia promotes effector T-cell survival via IL-15 signaling the STAT5/Bcl2 pathway, enhances T-cell memory formation via IL-15 activation of the forkhead-box family of transcription factor (FOXO)/eomesodermin (Eomes) memory and ULK1/autophagy-related gene-7 (ATG7) autophagy pathways, and via IL-15 activation of the mitochondrial remodeling. Our data thus identify some important targets to consider when designing potent adoptive T-cell immunotherapies of cancer.
The signals guiding differentiation of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) within tissues are not well understood. Salivary gland (SG) ILCs as well as liver and intestinal intraepithelial ILC1 have markers that denote tissue residency and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) imprinting. We deleted Tgfbr2 in cells expressing the ILC and NK marker NKp46 and found that SG ILCs were reduced in number. They lost distinct tissue markers, such as CD49a, and the effector molecules TRAIL and CD73. Expression of the transcription factor Eomes, which promotes NK cell differentiation, was elevated. Conversely, Eomes deletion in NKp46(+) cells enhanced TGF-β-imprinting of SG ILCs. Thus, TGF-β induces SG ILC differentiation by suppressing Eomes. TGF-β acted through a JNK-dependent, Smad4-independent pathway. Transcriptome analysis demonstrated that SG ILCs had characteristic of both NK cells and ILC1. Finally, TGF-β imprinting of SG ILCs was synchronized with SG development, highlighting the impact of tissue microenvironment on ILC development.
During cerebral development, many types of neurons are sequentially generated by self-renewing progenitor cells called apical progenitors (APs). Temporal changes in AP identity are thought to be responsible for neuronal diversity; however, the mechanisms underlying such changes remain largely unknown. Here we perform single-cell transcriptome analysis of individual progenitors at different developmental stages, and identify a subset of genes whose expression changes over time but is independent of differentiation status. Surprisingly, the pattern of changes in the expression of such temporal-axis genes in APs is unaffected by cell-cycle arrest. Consistent with this, transient cell-cycle arrest of APs in vivo does not prevent descendant neurons from acquiring their correct laminar fates. Analysis of cultured APs reveals that transitions in AP gene expression are driven by both cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic mechanisms. These results suggest that the timing mechanisms controlling AP temporal identity function independently of cell-cycle progression and Notch activation mode.
The female genital tract (FGT) mucosa is a critically important site for immune defense against microbes. Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are an innate-like T-cell population that recognizes microbial riboflavin metabolite antigens in an MR1-dependent manner. The role of MAIT cells in the FGT mucosa is unknown. Here, we found that MAIT cells and MR1+ antigen-presenting cells were present in the upper and lower FGT, with distinct tissue localization of MAIT cells in endometrium vs. cervix. The MAIT cells from the FGT and blood displayed a distinct phenotype with expression of interleukin (IL)-18Rα, CD127, α4β7, PD-1, as well as the transcription factors promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger (PLZF), RORγt, Helios, Eomes, and T-bet. Their expression levels of PLZF and Eomes were lower in the FGT compared with blood. When stimulated with Escherichia coli, MAIT cells from the FGT displayed a bias towards IL-17 and IL-22 expression, whereas blood MAIT cells produced primarily IFN-γ, TNF, and Granzyme B. Furthermore, both FGT- and blood-derived MAIT cells were polyfunctional and contributed to the T-cell-mediated response to E. coli. Thus, MAIT cells in the genital mucosa have a distinct IL-17/IL-22 profile and may have an important role in the immunological homeostasis and control of microbes at this site.
Somatic cells can be reprogrammed as induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) by introduction of the transcription factors, OCT3/4, KLF4, SOX2, and c-MYC. The CCR4-NOT complex is the major deadenylase in eukaryotes. Its subunits Cnot1, Cnot2, and Cnot3 maintain pluripotency and self-renewal of mouse and human embryonic stem (ES) cells and contribute to the transition from partial to full iPSCs. However, little is known about how the CCR4-NOT complex post-transcriptionally regulates the reprogramming process. Here, we show that the CCR4-NOT deadenylase subunits Cnot6, Cnot6l, Cnot7, and Cnot8, participate in regulating iPSC generation. Cnot1 knockdown suppresses expression levels of Cnot6, Cnot6l, Cnot7, and Cnot8 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and decreases the number of alkaline phosphatase (ALP)-positive colonies after iPSC induction. Intriguingly, Cnot1 depletion allows Eomes and p21 mRNAs to persist, increasing their expression levels. Both mRNAs have longer poly(A) tails in Cnot1-depleted cells. Conversely, forced expression of a combination of Cnot6, Cnot6l, Cnot7, and Cnot8 increases the number of ALP-positive colonies after iPSC induction and decreases expression levels of Eomes and p21 mRNAs. Based on these observations, we propose that the CCR4-NOT deadenylase activity contributes to iPSC induction.
BACKGROUND: Pluripotent embryonic stem cells (ESCs) offer great potential for regenerative medicine. However, efficient in vitro generation of specific desired cell types is still a challenge. We previously established that Smad2/3 signaling, essential for endoderm formation, regulates target gene expression by counteracting epigenetic repression mediated by Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2). Although this mechanism has been demonstrated during differentiation and reprogramming, little is known of its role in pluripotent cells.RESULTS: Chromatin immunoprecipitation-deep sequencing of undifferentiated mouse ESCs inhibited for Smad2/3 signaling identified Prdm14, important for protecting pluripotency, as a target gene. Although Prdm14 accumulates the normally repressive PRC2 deposited histone modification H3K27me3 under these conditions, surprisingly, expression increases. Analysis indicates that increased H3K27me3 leads to increased binding of PRC2 accessory component Jarid2 and recruitment of RNA polymerase II. Similar increases were found at the Nodal endoderm target gene Eomes but it remained unexpressed in pluripotent cells as normal. Upon differentiation, however, Eomes expression was significantly higher than in cells that had not been inhibited for signaling before differentiation. In addition, endoderm formation was markedly increased.CONCLUSIONS: Blocking Smad2/3 signaling in pluripotent stem cells results in epigenetic changes that enhance the capacity for endoderm differentiation. Developmental Dynamics 245:807-815, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Naïve T cells, unlike memory T cells, exhibit very limited effector function in response to cognate antigen, but exposure to type 1 interferon (IFN) prior to cognate antigen allows for rapid manifestation of effector functions. A full assessment of the functions of these IFN-sensitized otherwise naïve T cells has not been made, nor has their capacity to be effector cells in vivo. We describe here that IFN-sensitized naïve T cells in the absence of cognate antigen adopt a partial activated phenotype distinguished by the upregulation of the surface activation marker CD69, effector-associated transcription factors Eomes and IRF4, and cytotoxicity effector molecule granzyme B. IFN-sensitized naive T cells lysed target cells in vivo and responded to low concentrations and affinities of cognate ligands. We suggest that this rapid and sensitive effector function of IFN-conditioned naïve CD8 T cells may play a role in pathogen control and help ward off superinfections.
γδ T lymphocytes are programmed into distinct IFN-γ-producing CD27(+) (γδ27(+)) and IL-17-producing CD27(-) (γδ27(-)) subsets that play key roles in protective or pathogenic immune responses. Although the signature cytokines are shared with their αβ Th1 (for γδ27(+)) and Th17 (for γδ27(-)) cell counterparts, we dissect in this study similarities and differences in the transcriptional requirements of murine effector γδ27(+), γδ27(-)CCR6(-), and γδ27(-)CCR6(+) γδ T cell subsets and αβ T cells. We found they share dependence on the master transcription factors T-bet and RORγt for IFN-γ and IL-17 production, respectively. However, Eomes is fully dispensable for IFN-γ production by γδ T cells. Furthermore, the Th17 cell auxiliary transcription factors RORα and BATF are not required for IL-17 production by γδ27(-) cell subsets. We also show that γδ27(-) (but not γδ27(+)) cells become polyfunctional upon IL-1β plus IL-23 stimulation, cosecreting IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-22, GM-CSF, and IFN-γ. Collectively, our in vitro and in vivo data firmly establish the molecular segregation between γδ27(+) and γδ27(-) T cell subsets and provide novel insight on the nonoverlapping transcriptional networks that control the differentiation of effector γδ versus αβ T cell subsets.
INTRODUCTION: Prompted by recent amendments of Yellow Fever (YF) vaccination guidelines from boost to single vaccination strategy and the paucity of clinical data to support this adjustment, we used the profile of the YF-specific CD8+ T-cell subset profiles after primary vaccination and neutralizing antibodies as a proxy for potentially longer lasting immunity.METHODS AND FINDINGS: PBMCs and serum were collected in six individuals on days 0, 3, 5, 12, 28 and 180, and in 99 individuals >10 years after YF-vaccination. Phenotypic characteristics of YF- tetramer+ CD8+ T-cells were determined using class I tetramers. Antibody responses were measured using a standardized plaque reduction neutralization test (PRNT). Also, characteristics of YF-tetramer positive CD8+ T-cells were compared between individuals who had received a primary- and a booster vaccination. YF-tetramer+ CD8+ T-cells were detectable on day 12 (median tetramer+ cells as percentage of CD8+ T-cells 0.2%, range 0.07-3.1%). On day 180, these cells were still present (median 0.06%, range 0.02-0.78%). The phenotype of YF-tetramer positive CD8+ T-cells shifted from acute phase effector cells on day 12, to late differentiated or effector memory phenotype (CD45RA-/+CD27-) on day 28. Two subsets of YF-tetramer positive T-cells (CD45RA+CD27- and CD45RA+CD27+) persisted until day 180. Within all phenotypic subsets, the T-bet: Eomes ratio tended to be high on day 28 after vaccination and shifted towards predominant Eomes expression on day 180 (median 6.0 (day 28) vs. 2.2 (day 180) p = 0.0625), suggestive of imprinting compatible with long-lived memory properties. YF-tetramer positive CD8+ T-cells were detectable up to 18 years post vaccination, YF-specific antibodies were detectable up to 40 years after single vaccination. Booster vaccination did not increase titers of YF-specific antibodies (mean 12.5 vs. 13.1, p = 0.583), nor induce frequencies or alter phenotypes of YF-tetramer+ CD8+ T-cells.CONCLUSION: The presence of a functionally competent YF-specific memory T-cell pool 18 years and sufficient titers of neutralizing antibodies 35-40 years after first vaccination suggest that single vaccination may be sufficient to provide long-term immunity.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a common lymphoid malignancy with strong heritability. To further understand the genetic susceptibility for CLL and identify common loci associated with risk, we conducted a meta-analysis of four genome-wide association studies (GWAS) composed of 3,100 cases and 7,667 controls with follow-up replication in 1,958 cases and 5,530 controls. Here we report three new loci at 3p24.1 (rs9880772, EOMES, P=2.55 × 10(-11)), 6p25.2 (rs73718779, SERPINB6, P=1.97 × 10(-8)) and 3q28 (rs9815073, LPP, P=3.62 × 10(-8)), as well as a new independent SNP at the known 2q13 locus (rs9308731, BCL2L11, P=1.00 × 10(-11)) in the combined analysis. We find suggestive evidence (P<5 × 10(-7)) for two additional new loci at 4q24 (rs10028805, BANK1, P=7.19 × 10(-8)) and 3p22.2 (rs1274963, CSRNP1, P=2.12 × 10(-7)). Pathway analyses of new and known CLL loci consistently show a strong role for apoptosis, providing further evidence for the importance of this biological pathway in CLL susceptibility.
Embryonic development relies on activating and repressing regulatory influences that are faithfully integrated at the core promoter of individual genes. In vertebrates, the basal machinery recognizing the core promoter includes TATA-binding protein (TBP) and two TBP-related factors. In Xenopus embryos, the three TBP family factors are all essential for development and are required for expression of distinct subsets of genes. Here, we report on a non-canonical TBP family-insensitive (TFI) mechanism of transcription initiation that involves mesoderm and organizer gene expression. Using TBP family single- and triple-knockdown experiments, α-amanitin treatment, transcriptome profiling and chromatin immunoprecipitation, we found that TFI gene expression cannot be explained by functional redundancy, is supported by active transcription and shows normal recruitment of the initiating form of RNA polymerase II to the promoter. Strikingly, recruitment of Gcn5 (also known as Kat2a), a co-activator that has been implicated in transcription initiation, to TFI gene promoters is increased upon depletion of TBP family factors. TFI genes are part of a densely connected TBP family-insensitive T-box-Otx2-Gsc interaction network. The results indicate that this network of genes bound by Vegt, Eomes, Otx2 and Gsc utilizes a novel, flexible and non-canonical mechanism of transcription that does not require TBP or TBP-related factors.
Human CD8+ effector T cells derived from CD45RO+CD62L+ precursors enriched for central memory (TCM) precursors retain the capacity to engraft and reconstitute functional memory upon adoptive transfer, whereas effectors derived from CD45RO+CD62L- precursors enriched for effector memory precursors do not. Here we sought to compare the engraftment fitness and function of CD8+ effector T cells derived from CD45RA+CD62L+ precursors enriched for naïve and stem cell memory precursors (TN/SCM) with that of TCM. We found that cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) derived from TCM transcribed higher levels of CD28, FOS, INFγ, Eomesodermin (Eomes), and lower levels of BCL2L11, maintained higher levels of phosphorylated AKT, and displayed enhanced sensitivity to the proliferative and anti-apoptotic effects of γ-chain cytokines compared to CTLs derived from TN/SCM. Higher frequencies of CTLs derived from TCM retained CD28 expression and upon activation secreted higher levels of IL-2. In NOD/Scid IL-2RγCnull mice, CD8+ TCM derived CTLs engrafted to higher frequencies in response to human IL-15 and mounted robust proliferative responses to an immunostimulatory vaccine. Similarly, CD8+ TCM derived CD19CAR+ CTLs exhibited superior antitumor potency following adoptive transfer compared to their CD8+ TN/SCM derived counterparts. These studies support the use of TCM enriched cell products for adoptive therapy of cancer.
T-box transcription factors play important roles in vertebrate mesoderm formation. Eomesodermin is involved in the initial step of the prospective mesodermal cells recruited near the primitive streak. Then T or Brachyury gene is responsible for general and axial mesodermal development. Tbx6, on the other hand, promotes paraxial mesodermal development while suppressing neural differentiation. Here, we studied differentiative properties of mouse ES cells (mESCs) with its Tbx6 expression regulated under the Tet-off system. mESCs were treated with noggin to promote neural differentiation. When Tbx6 was simultaneously turned on, later neural differentiation of these cells hardly occurred. Next, mESCs were subjected to formation of the embryoid bodies (EBs). When Tbx6 was turned on during EB formation, the rate of later cardiac troponin T (cTnT)-positive cells increased. If the cells were further treated with a wnt inhibitor KY02111 after EB formation, a synergistic increase of cTnT-positive cells occurred. Tbx6 expression in mESCs influenced the constituent ratio of the cardiac myosin light chain types, such that atrial species markedly increased over ventricular ones. These results are coincident with the function of Tbx6 in normal development, in that Tbx6 strongly suppressed neural differentiation while promoting cardiac development in a cooperative manner with wnt inhibition.
Uterine NK cells are innate lymphoid cells (ILC) that populate the uterus and expand during pregnancy, regulating placental development and fetal growth in humans and mice. We have recently characterized the composition of uterine ILCs (uILCs), some of which require the transcription factor NFIL3, but the extent to which NFIL3-dependent cells support successful reproduction in mice is unknown. By mating Nfil3 (-/-) females with wild-type males, here we show the effects of NFIL3 deficiency in maternal cells on both the changes in uILCs during pregnancy and the downstream consequences on reproduction. Despite the presence of CD49a(+)Eomes(-) uILC1s and the considerable expansion of residual CD49a(+)Eomes(+) tissue-resident NK cells and uILC3s in pregnant Nfil3 (-/-) mice, we found incomplete remodeling of uterine arteries and decidua, placental defects, and fetal growth restriction in litters of normal size. These results show that maternal NFIL3 mediates non-redundant functions in mouse reproduction.
Defective epigenetic regulation has been postulated as a possible cause for the extensive and premature transcriptional dysregulation observed in experimental models of Huntington's disease (HD). In this study, we extended our observations in the N171-82Q mouse strain relating to the limited impact of polyQ pathology on the global histone acetylation to other animal and cellular models of HD, namely the R6/1 and YAC128 strains, striatal-electroporated mice, primary neuronal cultures and stably transfected PC12 cells. In the absence of bulk chromatin changes, we nonetheless documented histone deacetylation events at the transcription start sites (TSS) of genes relevant to neuronal functions (e.g., Rin1, Plk5, Igfbp5, Eomes, and Fos). In some instances, these local deficits were associated with an increased susceptibility to transcriptional dysregulation (e.g., Camk1g and Rasl11b) and the defective trimethylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 (H3K4me3), another covalent modification of histone tails that is related to active transcription and is also altered in HD. Overall, this study provides further insight into the nature and extent of epigenetic dysregulation in HD pathology.
Social interaction is a fundamental behavior in all animal species, but the developmental timing of the social neural circuit formation and the cellular and molecular mechanisms governing its formation are poorly understood. We generated a mouse model with mutations in two Disheveled genes, Dvl1 and Dvl3, that displays adult social and repetitive behavioral abnormalities associated with transient embryonic brain enlargement during deep layer cortical neuron formation. These phenotypes were mediated by the embryonic expansion of basal neural progenitor cells (NPCs) via deregulation of a β-catenin/Brn2/Tbr2 transcriptional cascade. Transient pharmacological activation of the canonical Wnt pathway during this period of early corticogenesis rescued the β-catenin/Brn2/Tbr2 transcriptional cascade and the embryonic brain phenotypes. Remarkably, this embryonic treatment prevented adult behavioral deficits and partially rescued abnormal brain structure in Dvl mutant mice. Our findings define a mechanism that links fetal brain development and adult behavior, demonstrating a fetal origin for social and repetitive behavior deficits seen in disorders such as autism.
Although the skin constitutes the first line of defense against waterborne pathogens, there is a great lack of information regarding the skin associated lymphoid tissue (SALT) and whether immune components of the skin are homogeneously distributed through the surface of the fish is still unknown. In the current work, we have analyzed the transcription of several immune genes throughout different rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) skin areas. We found that immunoglobulin and chemokine gene transcription levels were higher in a skin area close to the gills. Furthermore, this skin area as well as other anterior sections also transcribed significantly higher levels of many different immune genes related to T cell immunity such as T cell receptor α (TCRα), TCRγ, CD3, CD4, CD8, perforin, GATA3, Tbet, FoxP3, interferon γ (IFNγ), CD40L and Eomes in comparison to posterior skin sections. In agreement with these results, immunohistochemical analysis revealed that anterior skin areas had a higher concentration of CD3(+) T cells and flow cytometry analysis confirmed that the percentage of CD8(+) T lymphocytes was also higher in anterior skin sections. These results demonstrate for the first time that T cells are not homogeneously distributed throughout the teleost skin. Additionally, we studied the transcriptional regulation of these and additional T cell markers in response to a bath infection with viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV). We found that VHSV regulated the transcription of several of these T cell markers in both the skin and the spleen; with some differences between anterior and posterior skin sections. Altogether, our results point to skin T cells as major players of teleost skin immunity in response to waterborne viral infections.
Upon infection, antigen-specific naive CD8 T cells are activated and differentiate into short-lived effector cells (SLECs) and memory precursor cells (MPECs). The underlying signaling pathways remain largely unresolved. We show that Rictor, the core component of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 2 (mTORC2), regulates SLEC and MPEC commitment. Rictor deficiency favors memory formation and increases IL-2 secretion capacity without dampening effector functions. Moreover, mTORC2-deficient memory T cells mount more potent recall responses. Enhanced memory formation in the absence of mTORC2 was associated with Eomes and Tcf-1 upregulation, repression of T-bet, enhanced mitochondrial spare respiratory capacity, and fatty acid oxidation. This transcriptional and metabolic reprogramming is mainly driven by nuclear stabilization of Foxo1. Silencing of Foxo1 reversed the increased MPEC differentiation and IL-2 production and led to an impaired recall response of Rictor KO memory T cells. Therefore, mTORC2 is a critical regulator of CD8 T cell differentiation and may be an important target for immunotherapy interventions.
Author information:(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100730, China.
Type 1 innate lymphocytes comprise two developmentally divergent lineages, type 1 helper innate lymphoid cells (hILC1s) and conventional NK cells (cNKs). All type 1 innate lymphocytes (ILCs) express the transcription factor T-bet, but cNKs additionally express Eomesodermin (Eomes). We show that deletion of Eomes alleles at the onset of type 1 ILC maturation using NKp46-Cre imposes a substantial block in cNK development. Formation of the entire lymphoid and nonlymphoid type 1 ILC compartment appears to require the semiredundant action of both T-bet and Eomes. To determine if Eomes is sufficient to redirect hILC1 development to a cNK fate, we generated transgenic mice that express Eomes when and where T-bet is expressed using Tbx21 locus control to drive expression of Eomes codons. Ectopic Eomes induces cNK-like properties across the lymphoid and nonlymphoid type 1 ILC compartments. Subsequent to their divergent lineage specification, hILC1s and cNKs thus possess substantial developmental plasticity.
Trophoblast stem cells (TSCs) represent the multipotent progenitors that give rise to the different cells of the embryonic portion of the placenta. Here, we analysed the expression of key TSC transcription factors Cdx2, Eomes, and Elf5 in the early developing placenta of mouse embryos and in cultured TSCs and reveal surprising heterogeneity in protein levels. We analysed persistence of TSCs in the early placenta and find that TSCs remain in the chorionic hinge until E9.5 and are lost shortly afterwards. To define the transcriptional signature of bona fide TSCs, we used inducible gain- and loss-of-function alleles of Eomes or Cdx2, and Eomes (GFP), to manipulate and monitor the core maintenance factors of TSCs, followed by genome-wide expression profiling. Combinatorial analysis of resulting expression profiles allowed for defining novel TSC marker genes that might functionally contribute to the maintenance of the TSC state. Analyses by qRT-PCR and in situ hybridisation validated novel TSC- and chorion-specific marker genes, such as Bok/Mtd, Cldn26, Duox2, Duoxa2, Nr0b1, and Sox21. Thus, these expression data provide a valuable resource for the transcriptional signature of bona fide and early differentiating TSCs and may contribute to an increased understanding of the transcriptional circuitries that maintain and/or establish stemness of TSCs.
Naïve CD8(+) T lymphocytes responding to microbial pathogens give rise to effector T cells that provide acute defense and memory T cells that provide long-lived immunity. Upon activation, CD8(+) T lymphocytes can undergo asymmetric division, unequally distributing factors to the nascent daughter cells that influence their eventual fate towards the effector or memory lineages. Individual loss of either atypical protein kinase C (aPKC) isoform, PKCζ or PKCλ/ι, partially impairs asymmetric divisions and increases CD8(+) T lymphocyte differentiation toward a long-lived effector fate at the expense of memory T cell formation. Here, we show that deletion of both aPKC isoforms resulted in a deficit in asymmetric divisions, increasing the proportion of daughter cells that inherit high amounts of effector fate-associated molecules, IL-2Rα, T-bet, IFNγR, and interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4). However, unlike CD8(+) T cells deficient in only one aPKC isoform, complete loss of aPKC unexpectedly increased CD8(+) T cell differentiation toward a short-lived, terminal effector fate, as evidenced by increased rates of apoptosis and decreased expression of Eomes and Bcl2 early during the immune response. Together, these results provide evidence for an important role for asymmetric division in CD8(+) T lymphocyte fate specification by regulating the balance between effector and memory precursors at the initiation of the adaptive immune response.
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease treated by therapies targeting peripheral blood cells. We previously identified that expression of two MS-risk genes, the transcription factors EOMES and TBX21 (ET), was low in blood from MS and stable over time. Here we replicated the low ET expression in a new MS cohort (p<0.0007 for EOMES, p<0.028 for TBX21) and demonstrate longitudinal stability (p<10(-4)) and high heritability (h(2)=0.48 for EOMES) for this molecular phenotype. Genes whose expression correlated with ET, especially those controlling cell migration, further defined the phenotype. CD56+ cells and other subsets expressed lower levels of Eomes or T-bet protein and/or were under-represented in MS. EOMES and TBX21 risk SNP genotypes, and serum EBNA-1 titres were not correlated with ET expression, but HLA-DRB1*1501 genotype was. ET expression was normalised to healthy control levels with natalizumab, and was highly variable for glatiramer acetate, fingolimod, interferon-beta, dimethyl fumarate.
We have applied the CRISPR/Cas9 system in vivo to disrupt gene expression in neural stem cells in the developing mammalian brain. Two days after in utero electroporation of a single plasmid encoding Cas9 and an appropriate guide RNA (gRNA) into the embryonic neocortex of Tis21::GFP knock-in mice, expression of GFP, which occurs specifically in neural stem cells committed to neurogenesis, was found to be nearly completely (≈ 90%) abolished in the progeny of the targeted cells. Importantly, upon in utero electroporation directly of recombinant Cas9/gRNA complex, near-maximal efficiency of disruption of GFP expression was achieved already after 24 h. Furthermore, by using microinjection of the Cas9 protein/gRNA complex into neural stem cells in organotypic slice culture, we obtained disruption of GFP expression within a single cell cycle. Finally, we used either Cas9 plasmid in utero electroporation or Cas9 protein complex microinjection to disrupt the expression of Eomes/Tbr2, a gene fundamental for neocortical neurogenesis. This resulted in a reduction in basal progenitors and an increase in neuronal differentiation. Thus, the present in vivo application of the CRISPR/Cas9 system in neural stem cells provides a rapid, efficient and enduring disruption of expression of specific genes to dissect their role in mammalian brain development.
T-box transcription factors, T-box expressed in T cells (T-bet) encoded by Tbx21 and Eomesodermin (Eomes), drive the differentiation of effector/memory T cell lineages and NK cells. The aim of the study was to determine the prognostic influence of the expression of these transcription factors in peripheral blood (pB) in a cohort of 41 metastatic (m) RCC patients before receiving sorafenib treatment and to analyze their association with the immunophenotype in pB. In contrast to Tbx21, in the multivariate analysis including clinical features, Eomes mRNA expression was identified as an independent good prognostic factor for progression-free survival (PFS, p = 0.042) and overall survival (OS, p = 0.001) in addition to a favorable ECOG performance status (p = 0.01 and p = 0.008, respectively). Eomes expression correlated positively not only with expression of Tbx21 and TGFβ1 mRNA, but also with mRNA expression of the activation marker ICOS, and with in vivo activated HLA-DR(+) T cells. Eomes expression was negatively associated with TNFα-producing T cells. On protein level, Eomes was mainly expressed by CD56(+)CD3(-) NK cells in pB. In conclusion, we identified a higher Eomes mRNA expression as an independent good prognostic factor for OS and PFS in mRCC patients treated with sorafenib.
A transcriptional repressor Gfi1 promotes T helper type 2 (Th2) cell development and inhibits Th17 and inducible regulatory T-cell differentiation. However, the role of Gfi1 in regulating Th1 cell differentiation and the Th1-type immune response remains to be investigated. We herein demonstrate that Gfi1 inhibits the induction of the Th1 programme in activated CD4 T cells. The activated Gfi1-deficient CD4 T cells spontaneously develop into Th1 cells in an interleukin-12- and interferon-γ-independent manner. The increase of Th1-type immune responses was confirmed in vivo in Gfi1-deficient mice using a murine model of nickel allergy and delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH). The expression levels of Th1-related transcription factors were found to increase in Gfi1-deficient activated CD4 T cells. Tbx21, Eomes and Runx2 were identified as possible direct targets of Gfi1. Gfi1 binds to the Tbx21, Eomes and Runx2 gene loci and reduces the histone H3K4 methylation levels in part by modulating Lsd1 recruitment. Together, these findings demonstrate a novel regulatory role of Gfi1 in the regulation of the Th1-type immune response.
Erratum in    Cell Stem Cell. 2016 Apr 7;18(4):554-6.
OBJECTIVES: To assess if peripheral T cell populations in children with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection would show evidence of activation/exhaustion and an attenuated functional response.STUDY DESIGN: Compared with adults, children with HCV infection have a higher rate of spontaneous viral clearance. In adults, chronic HCV has been linked to T cell exhaustion. Little is known of the immune status of children with HCV. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated from 16 children with HCV (6 males, 10 females; mean age 8.6 years, range 2-17), 16 age- and sex-matched control children without HCV infection, and 20 adults with chronic HCV. Multiparameter flow cytometry was performed to characterize T cell differences across the 3 groups.RESULTS: Controls and children with HCV had similar levels of CD4(+), CD8(+), and γδ(+) T cells. Children with HCV demonstrated a decrease in naïve T cells compared with control children and increased activation/exhaustion marker expression on both CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells. Transcription factor analysis suggested functional activation of T cells in children with HCV; however, only the CD4(+) subset had enhanced cytokine production (interferon gamma and interleukin-2) compared with control children.CONCLUSIONS: The HCV response in children is characterized by several changes in T cell phenotype. Many of these changes, such as increased T cell expression of programmed cell death-1, are similar to responses in adults. Of note, cytokine production by CD4(+) helper T cells is increased in children with HCV compared with age- and sex-matched control children, which may influence long-term prognosis in children with HCV.
The amplification of distinct neural stem/progenitor cell subtypes during embryogenesis is essential for the intricate brain structures present in various vertebrate species. For example, in both mammals and birds, proliferative neuronal progenitors transiently appear on the basal side of the ventricular zone of the telencephalon (basal progenitors), where they contribute to the enlargement of the neocortex and its homologous structures. In placental mammals, this proliferative cell population can be subdivided into several groups that include Tbr2(+) intermediate progenitors and basal radial glial cells (bRGs). Here, we report that basal progenitors in the developing avian pallium show unique morphological and molecular characteristics that resemble the characteristics of bRGs, a progenitor population that is abundant in gyrencephalic mammalian neocortex. Manipulation of LGN (Leu-Gly-Asn repeat-enriched protein) and Cdk4/cyclin D1, both essential regulators of neural progenitor dynamics, revealed that basal progenitors and Tbr2(+) cells are distinct cell lineages in the developing avian telencephalon. Furthermore, we identified a small population of subapical mitotic cells in the developing brains of a wide variety of amniotes and amphibians. Our results suggest that unique progenitor subtypes are amplified in mammalian and avian lineages by modifying common mechanisms of neural stem/progenitor regulation during amniote brain evolution.
CD8+ T cell exhaustion commonly occurs in chronic infections and cancers. During T cell exhaustion there is a progressive and hierarchical loss of effector cytokine production, up-regulation of inhibitory co-stimulatory molecules, and eventual deletion of antigen specific cells by apoptosis. A key factor that regulates T cell exhaustion is persistent TCR stimulation. Loss of this interaction results in restoration of CD8+ T cell effector functions in previously exhausted CD8+ T cells. TCR stimulation is also important for the differentiation of Eomeshi anti-viral CD8+ effector T cells from T-bethi precursors, both of which are required for optimal viral control. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating the differentiation of these two cell subsets and the relative ratios required for viral clearance have not been described. We show that TCR signal strength regulates the relative expression of T-bet and Eomes in antigen-specific CD8+ T cells by modulating levels of IRF4. Reduced IRF4 expression results in skewing of this ratio in the favor of Eomes, leading to lower proportions and numbers of T-bet+ Eomes- precursors and poor control of LCMV-clone 13 infection. Manipulation of this ratio in the favor of T-bet restores the differentiation of T-bet+ Eomes- precursors and the protective balance of T-bet to Eomes required for efficient viral control. These data highlight a critical role for IRF4 in regulating protective anti-viral CD8+ T cell responses by ensuring a balanced ratio of T-bet to Eomes, leading to the ultimate control of this chronic viral infection.
To develop a routine and effectual procedure of detecting bladder cancer (BlCa), an optimized combination of epigenetic biomarkers that work synergistically with high sensitivity and specificity is necessary. In this study, methylation levels of seven biomarkers (EOMES, GDF15, NID2, PCDH17, POU4F2, TCF21, and ZNF154) in 148 individuals-which including 58 urothelial cell carcinoma (UCC) patients, 20 infected urinary calculi (IUC) patients, 20 kidney cancer (KC) patients,20 prostate cancer (PC) patients, and 30 healthy volunteers (HV)-were quantified by qMSP using the urine sediment DNA. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated for each biomarker. The combining predictors of possible combinations were calculated through logistic regression model. Subsequently, ROC curves of the three best performing combinations were constructed. Then, we validated the three best performing combinations and POU4F2 in another 72 UCC, 21 IUC, 26 KC and 22 PC, and 23 HV urine samples. The combination of POU4F2/PCDH17 has yielded the highest sensitivity and specificity of 90.00% and 93.96% in all the 312 individuals, showing the capability of detecting BlCa effectively among pathologically varied sample groups.
Naive T cells differentiate into various effector T cells, including CD4(+) helper T cell subsets and CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells (CTL). Although cytotoxic CD4(+) T cells (CD4 +: CTL) also develop from naive T cells, the mechanism of development is elusive. We found that a small fraction of CD4(+) T cells that express class I-restricted T cell-associated molecule (CRTAM) upon activation possesses the characteristics of both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. CRTAM(+) CD4(+) T cells secrete IFN-γ, express CTL-related genes, such as eomesodermin (Eomes), Granzyme B, and perforin, after cultivation, and exhibit cytotoxic function, suggesting that CRTAM(+) T cells are the precursor of CD4(+)CTL. Indeed, ectopic expression of CRTAM in T cells induced the production of IFN-γ, expression of CTL-related genes, and cytotoxic activity. The induction of CD4(+)CTL and IFN-γ production requires CRTAM-mediated intracellular signaling. CRTAM(+) T cells traffic to mucosal tissues and inflammatory sites and developed into CD4(+)CTL, which are involved in mediating protection against infection as well as inducing inflammatory response, depending on the circumstances, through IFN-γ secretion and cytotoxic activity. These results reveal that CRTAM is critical to instruct the differentiation of CD4(+)CTL through the induction of Eomes and CTL-related gene.
Comment in    Immunity. 2015 Dec 15;43(6):1030-2.    Nat Rev Immunol. 2016 Feb;16(2):71.
BACKGROUND: Memory T cells (Tmem), particularly those resistant to costimulation blockade (CB), are a major barrier to transplant tolerance. The transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) is critical for Tmem development and maintenance, but its expression by alloactivated T cells has not been examined in nonhuman primates.METHODS: We evaluated Eomes and coinhibitory cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA4) expression by alloactivated rhesus monkey T cells in the presence of CTLA4 immunoglobulin, both in vitro and in renal allograft recipients treated with CTLA4Ig, with or without regulatory dendritic cell (DCreg) infusion.RESULTS: In normal monkeys, CD8+ T cells expressed significantly more Eomes than CD4+ T cells. By contrast, CD8+ T cells displayed minimal CTLA4. Among T cell subsets, central Tmem (Tcm) expressed the highest levels of Eomes. Notably, Eomes(lo)CTLA4(hi) cells displayed higher levels of CD25 and Foxp3 than Eomes(hi)CTLA4(lo) CD8+ T cells. After allostimulation, distinct proliferating Eomes(lo)CTLA4(hi) and Eomes(hi)CTLA4(lo) CD8+ T cell populations were identified, with a high proportion of Tcm being Eomes(lo)CTLA4(hi). CB with CTLA4Ig during allostimulation of CD8+ T cells reduced CTLA4 but not Eomes expression, significantly reducing Eomes(lo)CTLA4(hi) cells. After transplantation with CB and rapamycin, donor-reactive Eomes(lo)CTLA4(hi) CD8+ T cells were reduced. However, in monkeys also given DCreg, absolute numbers of these cells were elevated significantly.CONCLUSIONS: Low Eomes and high CTLA4 expression by donor-reactive CD8+ Tmem is associated with prolonged renal allograft survival induced by DCreg infusion in CTLA4Ig-treated monkeys. Prolonged allograft survival associated with DCreg infusion may be related to maintenance of donor-reactive Eomes(lo)CTLA4(hi) Tcm.
Memory CD8+ T cells are an essential component of anti-tumour and anti-viral immunity. Activation of the mammalian/mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway has been implicated in regulating the differentiation of effector and memory T cells. However, the mechanisms that control mTOR activity during immunity to tumours and infections are not well known. Activation of co-stimulatory receptors, including CD28 and natural killer group 2D (NKG2D), activate phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase and subsequently may activate the mTOR pathway in CD8+ T cells. This study compared the activation of the mTOR signalling pathway after co-stimulation through CD28 or NKG2D receptors in murine effector CD8+ T cells. Compared with CD28 co-stimulation, activation through CD3 and NKG2D receptors had weaker activation of mTORc1, as shown by decreased phosphorylation of mTORc1 targets S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 and eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding protein 1. NKG2D co-stimulation also showed increased gene expression of tuberous sclerosis protein 2, a negative regulator of mTORc1, whereas CD28 co-stimulation increased gene expression of Ras homologue enriched in brain, an activator of mTORc1, and hypoxia-inducible factor-1α and vascular endothelial growth factor-α, pro-angiogenic factors downstream of mTORc1. Strong mTORc1 activation in CD28-co-stimulated cells also increased expression of transcription factors that support effector cell differentiation, namely T-bet, B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein (BLIMP-1), interferon regulatory factor 4, and inhibitor of DNA binding 2, whereas low levels of mTORc1 activation allowed for the expression of Eomes, B-cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6), and inhibitor of DNA binding 3 during NKG2D stimulation, and increased expression of memory markers CD62 ligand and CD127. These data show that compared with CD28, co-stimulation through the NKG2D receptor leads to the differential activation of the mTOR signalling pathway and potentially supports memory CD8+ T-cell differentiation.
Recent successes in immune therapeutic strategies aimed to improve control over tumor growth have sparked hope that long-lived control of cancer through stimulation of the immune system can be possible. However, the underlying immunological mechanisms that are induced by immunotherapeutic strategies are not well understood. In this study, we used the highly immunogenic Friend virus-induced FBL-3 tumor as a model to study the mechanisms of immunological tumor control by CD4(+) T cells in the course of CD137 (4-1BB) agonist immunotherapy in the absence of a CD8 T cell response. We demonstrate that treatment with a CD137 agonist resulted in complete FBL-3 tumor regression in CD8(+) T cell-deficient mice. CD137 signaling enhanced the production of proinflammatory cytokines and cytotoxic molecules in tumor-specific CD4(+) T cells. Interestingly, a subset of CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells was reprogrammed to eliminate immunogenic virus-induced tumor cells in response to CD137 agonist treatment. These cells expressed markers characteristic for Th cells (CD154) and produced the cytokine TNF-α or the T-box transcriptional factor Eomesodermin and granzyme B without loss of Foxp3 expression. Foxp3 Eomes double-positive CD4(+) T cells were capable of eliminating immunogenic virus-induced tumor cells in vivo. Thus, our data show that tumor-induced Foxp3(+)CD4(+) T cells can be reprogrammed into cytotoxic effector cells upon therapeutic costimulatory signaling and restore antitumor immunity.
Elf5 is a transcription factor with pivotal roles in the trophoblast compartment, where it reinforces a trophoblast stem cell (TSC)-specific transcriptional circuit. However, Elf5 is also present in differentiating trophoblast cells that have ceased to express other TSC genes such as Cdx2 and Eomes. In the present study, we aimed to elucidate the context-dependent role of Elf5 at the interface between TSC self-renewal and the onset of differentiation. We demonstrate that precise levels of Elf5 are critical for normal expansion of the TSC compartment and embryonic survival, as Elf5 overexpression triggers precocious trophoblast differentiation. Through integration of protein interactome, transcriptome, and genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation data, we reveal that this abundance-dependent function is mediated through a shift in preferred Elf5-binding partners; in TSCs, Elf5 interaction with Eomes recruits Tfap2c to triply occupied sites at TSC-specific genes, driving their expression. In contrast, the Elf5 and Tfap2c interaction becomes predominant as their protein levels increase. This triggers binding to double- and single-occupancy sites that harbor the cognate Tfap2c motif, causing activation of the associated differentiation-promoting genes. These data place Elf5 at the center of a stoichiometry-sensitive transcriptional network, where it acts as a molecular switch governing the balance between TSC proliferation and differentiation.
IL-17-producing helper T (Th17) cells are critical for host defense against extracellular pathogens but also drive numerous autoimmune diseases. Th17 cells that differ in their inflammatory potential have been described including IL-10-producing Th17 cells that are weak inducers of inflammation and highly inflammatory, IL-23-driven, GM-CSF/IFNγ-producing Th17 cells. However, their distinct developmental requirements, functions and trafficking mechanisms in vivo remain poorly understood. Here we identify a temporally regulated IL-23-dependent switch from CCR6 to CCR2 usage by developing Th17 cells that is critical for pathogenic Th17 cell-driven inflammation in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). This switch defines a unique in vivo cell surface signature (CCR6(-)CCR2(+)) of GM-CSF/IFNγ-producing Th17 cells in EAE and experimental persistent extracellular bacterial infection, and in humans. Using this signature, we identify an IL-23/IL-1/IFNγ/TNFα/T-bet/Eomesodermin-driven circuit driving GM-CSF/IFNγ-producing Th17 cell formation in vivo. Thus, our data identify a unique cell surface signature, trafficking mechanism and T-cell intrinsic regulators of GM-CSF/IFNγ-producing Th17 cells.
Gene regulatory networks controlling functional activities of spatially and temporally distinct endodermal cell populations in the early mouse embryo remain ill defined. The T-box transcription factor Eomes, acting downstream from Nodal/Smad signals, directly activates the LIM domain homeobox transcription factor Lhx1 in the visceral endoderm. Here we demonstrate Smad4/Eomes-dependent Lhx1 expression in the epiblast marks the entire definitive endoderm lineage, the anterior mesendoderm, and midline progenitors. Conditional inactivation of Lhx1 disrupts anterior definitive endoderm development and impedes node and midline morphogenesis in part due to severe disturbances in visceral endoderm displacement. Transcriptional profiling and ChIP-seq (chromatin immunoprecipitation [ChIP] followed by high-throughput sequencing) experiments identified Lhx1 target genes, including numerous anterior definitive endoderm markers and components of the Wnt signaling pathway. Interestingly, Lhx1-binding sites were enriched at enhancers, including the Nodal-proximal epiblast enhancer element and enhancer regions controlling Otx2 and Foxa2 expression. Moreover, in proteomic experiments, we characterized a complex comprised of Lhx1, Otx2, and Foxa2 as well as the chromatin-looping protein Ldb1. These partnerships cooperatively regulate development of the anterior mesendoderm, node, and midline cell populations responsible for establishment of the left-right body axis and head formation.
Mechanisms of initial cell fate decisions differ among species. To gain insights into lineage allocation in humans, we derived ten human embryonic stem cell lines (designated UCSFB1-10) from single blastomeres of four 8-cell embryos and one 12-cell embryo from a single couple. Compared with numerous conventional lines from blastocysts, they had unique gene expression and DNA methylation patterns that were, in part, indicative of trophoblast competence. At a transcriptional level, UCSFB lines from different embryos were often more closely related than those from the same embryo. As predicted by the transcriptomic data, immunolocalization of EOMES, T brachyury, GDF15 and active β-catenin revealed differential expression among blastomeres of 8- to 10-cell human embryos. The UCSFB lines formed derivatives of the three germ layers and CDX2-positive progeny, from which we derived the first human trophoblast stem cell line. Our data suggest heterogeneity among early-stage blastomeres and that the UCSFB lines have unique properties, indicative of a more immature state than conventional lines.
One of the most prominent features of the cerebral cortex of higher mammals is the presence of gyri. Because malformations of the cortical gyri are associated with severe disability in brain function, the mechanisms underlying malformations of the cortical gyri have been of great interest. Combining gyrencephalic carnivore ferrets and genetic manipulations using in utero electroporation, here we successfully recapitulated the cortical phenotypes of thanatophoric dysplasia (TD) by expressing fibroblast growth factor 8 in the ferret cerebral cortex. Strikingly, in contrast to TD mice, our TD ferret model showed not only megalencephaly but also polymicrogyria. We further uncovered that outer radial glial cells (oRGs) and intermediate progenitor cells (IPs) were markedly increased. Because it has been proposed that increased oRGs and/or IPs resulted in the appearance of cortical gyri during evolution, it seemed possible that increased oRGs and IPs underlie the pathogenesis of polymicrogyria. Our findings should help shed light on the molecular mechanisms underlying the formation and malformation of cortical gyri in higher mammals.
CD70-mediated stimulation of CD27 is an important cofactor of CD4(+) T-cell licensed dendritic cells (DCs). However, it is unclear how CD70-mediated stimulation of T cells is integrated with signals that emanate from signal 3 pathways, such as type-1 interferon (IFN-1) and IL-12. We find that while stimulation of CD27 in isolation drives weak Eomesodermin(hi) T-bet(lo) CD8(+) T-cell responses to OVA immunization, profound synergistic expansion is achieved by cotargeting TLR. This cooperativity can substantially boost antiviral CD8(+) T-cell responses during acute infection. Concomitant stimulation of TLR significantly increases per cell IFN-γ production and the proportion of the population with characteristics of short-lived effector cells, yet also promotes the ability to form long-lived memory. Notably, while IFN-1 contributes to the expression of CD70 on DCs, the synergy between CD27 and TLR stimulation is dependent upon IFN-1's effect directly on CD8(+) T cells, and is associated with the increased expression of T-bet in T cells. Surprisingly, we find that IL-12 fails to synergize with CD27 stimulation to promote CD8(+) T-cell expansion, despite its capacity to drive effector CD8(+) T-cell differentiation. Together, these data identify complex interactions between signal 3 and costimulatory pathways, and identify opportunities to influence the differentiation of CD8(+) T-cell responses.
CD4(+) T cells polarize into effector Th subsets characterized by signature transcription factors and cytokines. Although T-bet drives Th1 responses and represses the alternative Th2, Th17, and Foxp3(+) regulatory T cell fates, the role of the T-bet-related transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes) in CD4(+) T cells is less well understood. In this study, we analyze the expression and effects of Eomes in mouse CD4(+) T lymphocytes. We find that Eomes is readily expressed in activated CD4(+) Th1 T cells in vivo. Eomes(+) CD4(+) T cells accumulated in old mice, under lymphopenic conditions in a T cell transfer model of colitis, and upon oral Ag administration. However, despite its expression, genetic deletion of Eomes in CD4(+) T cells did not impact on IFN-γ production nor increase Th2 or Th17 responses. In contrast, Eomes deficiency favored the accumulation of Foxp3(+) cells in old mice, after in vivo differentiation of Eomes-deficient naive CD4(+) T cells, and in response to oral Ag in a cell-intrinsic way. Enforced Eomes expression during in vitro regulatory T cell induction also reduced Foxp3 transcription. Likewise, bystander Eomes-deficient CD4(+) T cells were more efficient at protecting from experimental autoimmune encephalitis compared with wild-type CD4(+) T cells. This enhanced capacity of Eomes-deficient CD4(+) T cells to inhibit EAE in trans was associated with an enhanced frequency of Foxp3(+) cells. Our data identify a novel role for Eomes in CD4(+) T cells and indicate that Eomes expression may act by limiting Foxp3 induction, which may contribute to the association of EOMES to susceptibility to multiple sclerosis.
Besides growing plants, eating a lot, and drinking beer, Tolkien's Hobbits enjoy maintaining a quiet state. Regarding the latter, the name chosen for a recently discovered transcription factor seems to be unintentionally appropriate. The zinc finger protein ZNF683 was originally named "Hobit" for Homolog of Blimp-1 in T cells. In this issue of the European Journal of Immunology, Braga et al. [Eur. J. Immunol. 2015. 45: 2945-2958] demonstrate that in humans, Hobit is almost exclusively expressed in effector T cells, in particular in quiescent and long-lived effector-type CD8(+) T cells. Hobit may initially appear as another "player" in the quest for transcription factors guiding T-cell differentiation; the discoveries of T-bet, Eomes, Blimp-1, and others have significantly contributed to our understanding of how this process is tightly regulated. However, Hobit may be special--the currently available results suggest substantial differences in Hobit's regulatory functions between mice and humans, such as expression patterns and IFN-γ regulation. And it may turn out that Hobit's function in human T cells is highly adapted to lifelong, periodic challenges with varying, physiological doses of pathogens. Thus, the new study about Hobit in human T cells may be the beginning of a long journey.
NK cells play a major role in protection against tumor recurrence and infection after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). It has been shown that NK cell function after HSCT is impaired, but underlying molecular mechanisms are not well-known. In this report we show that the level of T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes), two T-box transcription factors regulating lymphocyte effector functions, is strongly reduced in NK cells from HSCT recipients compared with healthy control subjects. Reduction of T-bet and Eomes expression appeared early and persisted for years after HSCT, affecting all peripheral blood NK cells independently of their differentiation status. Reduced T-bet levels in NK cells from allogeneic HSCT recipients significantly correlated with reduced perforin expression. Acute, but not chronic, graft-versus-host disease, as well as CMV reactivation, was associated with further downregulation of T-bet expression in NK cells. Lower levels of T-bet expression in NK cells were associated with less favorable outcome after HSCT as a result of increased nonrelapse mortality. Collectively, our results provide a possible molecular explanation for the previously reported functional exhaustion of NK cells after allogeneic HSCT and suggest an impact of the NK transcriptional machinery status on HSCT outcome.
Development of acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) depends on Th17 cells expressing the nuclear factor NR4A2. However, in mice lacking NR4A2 in T cells, a late-onset disease is still inducible, despite a great reduction in acute inflammation. We here reveal that development of this late onset disease depends on cytotoxic T-cell-like CD4(+) T cells expressing the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes). T-cell-specific deletion of the Eomes gene remarkably ameliorates the late-onset EAE. Strikingly, similar Eomes(+) CD4(+) T cells are increased in the peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid from patients in a progressive state of multiple sclerosis. Collective data indicate an involvement of granzyme B and protease-activated receptor-1 in the neuroinflammation mediated by Eomes(+) CD4(+) T cells.
The immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment usurps host antitumor immunity by multiple mechanisms including interference with the Notch system, which is important for various metazoan cell fate decisions and hematopoietic cell differentiation and function. We observed that treatment with the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib in mice bearing various solid tumors resulted in an upregulated expression of various Notch signaling components in lymphoid tissues, thereby increasing CD8+T-lymphocyte IFNγ secretion and expression of effector molecules, perforin and granzyme B, as well as the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin. Bortezomib also neutralized TGFβ-mediated suppression of IFNγ and granzyme B expression in activated CD8+T-cells. Of note, bortezomib reversed tumor-induced downregulation of Notch receptors, Notch1 and Notch2, as well as increased the levels of cleaved Notch intracellular domain (NICD) and downstream targets Hes1 and Hey1 in tumor-draining CD8+T-cells. Moreover, bortezomib promoted CD8+T-cell nuclear factor-κB (NFκB) activity by increasing the total and phosphorylated levels of the IκB kinase and IκBα as well as the cytoplasmic and nuclear levels of phosphorylated p65. Even when we blocked NFκB activity by Bay-11-7082, or NICD cleavage by γ-secretase inhibitor, bortezomib significantly increased expression of Notch Hes1 and Hey1 genes as well as perforin, granzyme B and eomesodermin in activated CD8+T-cells. Data suggest that bortezomib can rescue tumor-induced dysfunction of CD8+T-cells by its intrinsic stimulatory effects promoting NICD-NFκB crosstalk. These findings provide novel insights on using bortezomib not only as an agent to sensitize tumors to cell death but also to provide lymphocyte-stimulatory effects, thereby overcoming immunosuppressive actions of tumor on anti-tumor T-cell functions.
Immunological memory, which protects organisms from re-infection, is a hallmark of the mammalian adaptive immune system and the underlying principle of vaccination. In early life, however, mice and other mammals are deficient at generating memory CD8+ T cells, which protect organisms from intracellular pathogens. The molecular basis that differentiates adult and neonatal CD8+ T cells is unknown. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are both developmentally regulated and required for normal adult CD8+ T cell functions. We used next-generation sequencing to identify mouse miRNAs that are differentially regulated in adult and neonatal CD8+ T cells, which may contribute to the impaired development of neonatal memory cells. The miRNA profiles of adult and neonatal cells were surprisingly similar during infection; however, we observed large differences prior to infection. In particular, miR-29 and miR-130 have significant differential expression between adult and neonatal cells before infection. Importantly, using RNA-Seq, we detected reciprocal changes in expression of messenger RNA targets for both miR-29 and miR-130. Moreover, targets that we validated include Eomes and Tbx21, key genes that regulate the formation of memory CD8+ T cells. Notably, age-dependent changes in miR-29 and miR-130 are conserved in human CD8+ T cells, further suggesting that these developmental differences are biologically relevant. Together, these results demonstrate that miR-29 and miR-130 are likely important regulators of memory CD8+ T cell formation and suggest that neonatal cells are committed to a short-lived effector cell fate prior to infection.
The functional role of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus remains the subject of intense speculation. One recent hypothesis is that adult-born neurons contribute to the endocrine and behavioural outputs of the stress response. Here we show a genetic model system to ablate neurogenesis by inducibly deleting Tbr2 gene function specifically in the hippocampus and corroborate our findings in a radiation-based model of neurogenesis deprivation. We found that mice with ablation of new neurons in the dentate gyrus exhibit reduced anxiety during the dark cycle. After restraint stress, corticosterone levels in neurogenesis-deficient mice decreased more quickly than controls and were more sensitive to suppression by dexamethasone. Furthermore, glucocorticoid receptor target genes and neuronal activity markers showed reduced expression after stress in neurogenesis-deficient mice. These findings suggest that newborn neurons in the hippocampus are involved in sensing and eliciting an appropriate response to stress.
Comment in    Cell Stem Cell. 2015 Nov 5;17(5):499-500.    Stem Cell Investig. 2016;3:24.
Comment in    Cell Stem Cell. 2015 Nov 5;17(5):499-500.    Stem Cell Investig. 2016;3:24.    Stem Cell Investig. 2016 Sep 19;3:45.
Comment on    Oncotarget. 194:5861.
In vivo-matured mouse oocytes were enucleated, and a single murine embryonic fibroblast (control or reprogrammed by introducing extracts from murine testis tissue, which showed expression of male germ cell-specific genes) was injected into the cytoplasm of the oocytes. The rate of blastocyst development and expression levels of Oct-4, Eomes and Cdx-2 were not significantly different in both experimental groups. However, the expression levels of Nanog, Sox9 and Glut-1 were significantly increased when reprogrammed cells were used as donor nuclei. Increased expression of Nanog can be supportive of complete reprogramming of somatic cell nuclear transfer murine embryos. The present study suggested that donor cells expressing male germ cell-specific genes can be reconstructed and can develop into embryos with normal high expression of developmentally essential genes.
Erratum in    Br J Cancer. 2016 Oct 25;115(9):e11.
The mammalian neocortex shows a conserved six-layered structure that differs between species in the total number of cortical neurons produced owing to differences in the relative abundance of distinct progenitor populations. Recent studies have identified a new class of proliferative neurogenic cells in the outer subventricular zone (OSVZ) in gyrencephalic species such as primates and ferrets. Lissencephalic brains of mice possess fewer OSVZ-like progenitor cells and these do not constitute a distinct layer. Most in vitro and in vivo studies have shown that oxygen regulates the maintenance, proliferation and differentiation of neural progenitor cells. Here we dissect the effects of fetal brain oxygen tension on neural progenitor cell activity using a novel mouse model that allows oxygen tension to be controlled within the hypoxic microenvironment in the neurogenic niche of the fetal brain in vivo. Indeed, maternal oxygen treatment of 10%, 21% and 75% atmospheric oxygen tension for 48 h translates into robust changes in fetal brain oxygenation. Increased oxygen tension in fetal mouse forebrain in vivo leads to a marked expansion of a distinct proliferative cell population, basal to the SVZ. These cells constitute a novel neurogenic cell layer, similar to the OSVZ, and contribute to corticogenesis by heading for deeper cortical layers as a part of the cortical plate.
Genetic and clinical association studies have identified disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) as a candidate risk gene for major mental illness. DISC1 is interrupted by a balanced chr(1;11) translocation in a Scottish family in which the translocation predisposes to psychiatric disorders. We investigate the consequences of DISC1 interruption in human neural cells using TALENs or CRISPR-Cas9 to target the DISC1 locus. We show that disruption of DISC1 near the site of the translocation results in decreased DISC1 protein levels because of nonsense-mediated decay of long splice variants. This results in an increased level of canonical Wnt signaling in neural progenitor cells and altered expression of fate markers such as Foxg1 and Tbr2. These gene expression changes are rescued by antagonizing Wnt signaling in a critical developmental window, supporting the hypothesis that DISC1-dependent suppression of basal Wnt signaling influences the distribution of cell types generated during cortical development.
The discovery of new vaccines against infectious diseases and cancer requires the development of novel adjuvants with well-defined activities. The TLR4 agonist adjuvant GLA-SE elicits robust Th1 responses to a variety of vaccine Ags and is in clinical development for both infectious diseases and cancer. We demonstrate that immunization with a recombinant protein Ag and GLA-SE also induces granzyme A expression in CD4 T cells and produces cytolytic cells that can be detected in vivo. Surprisingly, these in vivo CTLs were CD4 T cells, not CD8 T cells, and this cytolytic activity was not dependent on granzyme A/B or perforin. Unlike previously reported CD4 CTLs, the transcription factors Tbet and Eomes were not necessary for their development. CTL activity was also independent of the Fas ligand-Fas, TRAIL-DR5, and canonical death pathways, indicating a novel mechanism of CTL activity. Rather, the in vivo CD4 CTL activity induced by vaccination required T cell expression of CD154 (CD40L) and target cell expression of CD40. Thus, vaccination with a TLR4 agonist adjuvant induces CD4 CTLs, which kill through a previously unknown CD154-dependent mechanism.
Mucosa-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells represent a large innate-like evolutionarily conserved antimicrobial T-cell subset in humans. MAIT cells recognize microbial riboflavin metabolites from a range of microbes presented by MR1 molecules. MAIT cells are impaired in several chronic diseases including HIV-1 infection, where they show signs of exhaustion and decline numerically. Here, we examined the broader effector functions of MAIT cells in this context and strategies to rescue their functions. Residual MAIT cells from HIV-infected patients displayed aberrant baseline levels of cytolytic proteins, and failed to mobilize cytolytic molecules in response to bacterial antigen. In particular, the induction of granzyme B (GrzB) expression was profoundly defective. The functionally impaired MAIT cell population exhibited abnormal T-bet and Eomes expression patterns that correlated with the deficiency in cytotoxic capacity and cytokine production. Effective antiretroviral therapy (ART) did not fully restore these aberrations. Interestingly, IL-7 was capable of arming resting MAIT cells from healthy donors into cytotoxic GrzB+ effector T cells capable of killing bacteria-infected cells and producing high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in an MR1-dependent fashion. Furthermore, IL-7 treatment enhanced the sensitivity of MAIT cells to detect low levels of bacteria. In HIV-infected patients, plasma IL-7 levels were positively correlated with MAIT cell numbers and function, and IL-7 treatment in vitro significantly restored MAIT cell effector functions even in the absence of ART. These results indicate that the cytolytic capacity in MAIT cells is severely defective in HIV-1 infected patients, and that the broad-based functional defect in these cells is associated with deficiency in critical transcription factors. Furthermore, IL-7 induces the arming of effector functions and enhances the sensitivity of MAIT cells, and may be considered in immunotherapeutic approaches to restore MAIT cells.
The glycosphingolipid SSEA-4 and the glycoprotein YKL-40 have both been associated with human embryonic and neural stem cell differentiation. We investigated the distribution of SSEA-4 and YKL-40 positive cells in proliferative zones of human fetal forebrain using immunohistochemistry and double-labeling immunofluorescence. A few small rounded SSEA-4 and YKL-40 labeled cells were present in the radial glial BLBP positive proliferative zones adjacent to the lateral ganglionic eminence from 12th week post conception. With increasing age, a similarly stained cell population appeared more widespread in the subventricular zone. At midgestation, the entire subventricular zone showed patches of SSEA-4, YKL-40, and BLBP positive cells. Co-labeling with markers for radial glial cells (RGCs) and neuronal, glial, and microglial markers tested the lineage identity of this subpopulation of radial glial descendants. Adjacent to the ventricular zone, a minor fraction showed overlap with GFAP but not with nestin, Olig2, NG2, or S100. No co-localization was found with neuronal markers NeuN, calbindin, DCX or with markers for microglial cells (Iba-1, CD68). Moreover, the SSEA-4 and YKL-40 positive cell population in subventricular zone was largely devoid of Tbr2, a marker for intermediate neuronal progenitor cells descending from RGCs. YKL-40 has recently been found in astrocytes in the neuron-free fimbria, and both SSEA-4 and YKL-40 are present in malignant astroglial brain tumors. We suggest that the population of cells characterized by immunohistochemical combination of antibodies against SSEA-4 and YKL-40 and devoid of neuronal and microglial markers represent a yet unexplored astrogenic lineage illustrating the complexity of astroglial development.
Erratum in    Development. 2015 Oct 15;142(20):3613.
In the cerebral cortex, projection neurons and interneurons work coordinately to establish neural networks for normal cortical functions. While the specific mechanisms that control productions of projection neurons and interneurons are beginning to be revealed, a global characterization of the molecular differences between these two neuron types is crucial for a more comprehensive understanding of their developmental specifications and functions. In this study, using lineage tracing power of combining Tbr2(Eomes)-GFP and Dcx-mRFP reporter mice, we prospectively separated intermediate progenitor cell (IPC)-derived neurons (IPNs) from non-IPC-derived neurons (non-IPNs) of the embryonic cerebral cortex. Molecular characterizations revealed that IPNs and non-IPNs were enriched with projection neurons and interneurons, respectively. Expression profiling documented cell-specific genes including differentially expressed transcriptional regulators that might be involved in cellular specifications, for instance, our data found that SOX1 and SOX2, which were known for important functions in neural stem/progenitor cells, continued to be expressed by interneurons but not by projection neurons. Transcriptome analyses of cortical neurons isolated at different stages of neurogenesis revealed distinct temporal patterns of expression of genes involved in early-born or late-born neuron specification. These data present a resource useful for further investigation of the molecular regulations and functions of projection neurons and interneurons.
The development of a functional placenta is largely dependent upon proper proliferation and differentiation of trophoblast stem cells (TSCs). Activin signaling has long been regarded to play important roles during this process, but the exact mechanism is largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the X chromosome gene BCL-6 corepressor (Bcor) is a critical downstream effector of activin to fine-tune mouse TSC fate decision. Bcor was specifically down-regulated by activin A in TSCs in a dose-dependent manner, and immediately up-regulated upon TSC differentiation. Knockdown of Bcor partially compensated for the absence of activin A in maintaining the self-renewal of TSCs together with FGF4, while promoting syncytiotrophoblast differentiation in the absence of FGF4. Moreover, the impaired trophoblast giant cell and spongiotrophoblast differentiation upon Bcor knockdown also resembled the function of activin. Reporter analysis showed that BCOR inhibited the expression of the key trophoblast regulator genes Eomes and Cebpa by binding to their promoter regions. Our findings provide us with a better understanding of placental development and placenta-related diseases.
The C-type lectin-like receptor CD161 is expressed by lymphocytes found in human gut and liver, as well as blood, especially natural killer (NK) cells, T helper 17 (Th17) cells, and a population of unconventional T cells known as mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells. The association of high CD161 expression with innate T-cell populations including MAIT cells is established. Here we show that CD161 is also expressed, at intermediate levels, on a prominent subset of polyclonal CD8+ T cells, including antiviral populations that display a memory phenotype. These memory CD161(int)CD8+ T cells are enriched within the colon and express both CD103 and CD69, markers associated with tissue residence. Furthermore, this population was characterized by enhanced polyfunctionality, increased levels of cytotoxic mediators, and high expression of the transcription factors T-bet and eomesodermin (EOMES). Such populations were induced by novel vaccine strategies based on adenoviral vectors, currently in trial against hepatitis C virus. Thus, intermediate CD161 expression marks potent polyclonal, polyfunctional tissue-homing CD8+ T-cell populations in humans. As induction of such responses represents a major aim of T-cell prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines in viral disease and cancer, analysis of these populations could be of value in the future.
AIM: To investigate the clinical significance of Tim-3 (T-cell immunoglobulin- and mucin-domain-containing molecule 3) expression in natural killer (NK) cells from patients with gastric cancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty-two patients with gastric cancer and 32 healthy controls were recruited for this study. Tim-3 expression in peripheral blood samples was analyzed using flow cytometry. The expression pattern of Tim-3 on NK cells was also confirmed using a gastric cancer-bearing mouse model. To further investigate the mechanisms that regulate Tim-3 expression, T-bet(-/-), Eomes(-/-), and Eomes/T-bet double knockout mice were utilized. Additionally, we statistically analyzed the clinical significance of Tim-3 expression on NK cells.RESULTS: We found that the levels of Tim-3 in NK cells obtained from patients with gastric cancer were significantly higher than the levels in healthy controls. Clinical analyses showed that Tim-3 levels on NK cells were associated with advanced tumor stage. In a tumor-bearing mouse model, Tim-3 levels in NK cells increased with tumor growth, indicating that tumor progression could induce Tim-3 expression in NK cells. Finally, we report that T-bet is a key factor involved in regulating Tim-3 expression.CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that Tim-3 expression on NK cells is regulated by T-bet, and that Tim-3 levels correlate with advanced stages of gastric cancer.
Esrrb (oestrogen-related receptor beta) is a transcription factor implicated in embryonic stem (ES) cell self-renewal, yet its knockout causes intrauterine lethality due to defects in trophoblast development. Here we show that in trophoblast stem (TS) cells, Esrrb is a downstream target of fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) signalling and is critical to drive TS cell self-renewal. In contrast to its occupancy of pluripotency-associated loci in ES cells, Esrrb sustains the stemness of TS cells by direct binding and regulation of TS cell-specific transcription factors including Elf5 and Eomes. To elucidate the mechanisms whereby Esrrb controls the expression of its targets, we characterized its TS cell-specific interactome using mass spectrometry. Unlike in ES cells, Esrrb interacts in TS cells with the histone demethylase Lsd1 and with the RNA Polymerase II-associated Integrator complex. Our findings provide new insights into both the general and context-dependent wiring of transcription factor networks in stem cells by master transcription factors.
MESP1 is considered the first sign of the nascent cardiac mesoderm and plays a critical role in the appearance of cardiac progenitors, while exhibiting a transient expression in the developing embryo. We profiled the transcriptome of a pure population of differentiating MESP1-marked cells and found that they chiefly contribute to the mesendoderm lineage. High-throughput sequencing of endogenous MESP1-bound DNA revealed that MESP1 preferentially binds to two variants of E-box sequences and activates critical mesendoderm modulators, including Eomes, Gata4, Wnt5a, Wnt5b, Mixl1, T, Gsc, and Wnt3. These mesendoderm markers were enriched in the MESP1 marked population before the appearance of cardiac progenitors and myocytes. Further, MESP1-binding is globally associated with H(3)K(27) acetylation, supporting a novel pivotal role of it in regulating target gene epigenetics. Therefore, MESP1, the pioneer cardiac factor, primarily directs the appearance of mesendoderm, the intermediary of the earliest progenitors of mesoderm and endoderm organogenesis.
OBJECTIVE: Alcoholic hepatitis (AH) is a type of alcoholic liver disorder caused by overconsumption of alcohol. The involvement of several transcription factors (TF), as the main regulators of disease related gene expression has been documented previously. However, despite the importance of analysis of gene regulatory network for understanding the molecular basis in any disease, so far, there is no report on construction of such network for AH in human.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Here, we used microarray analysis to construct a rather complete gene regulatory network and used it to predict TFs and pathways that affected by this disease.RESULTS: Ten TFs were shown to undergo significant alteration in AH. These TFs are AR, EGR1, MYC, TCF4, ATF3, JUN, FOXO3, STAT1, HIF1A and EOMES, where ATF3, TCF4 and MYC are the new TFs with a role in AH. Comparisons of gene expression profile of patients with those of healthy persons indicates 820 differentially expressed (DE) genes. Network analysis indicates that, these ten TFs regulate expression of 516 DE genes (out of 820 genes), by 1057 interactions. Furthermore, we report pathways that significantly affected by these ten TFs.CONCLUSIONS: These results may contribute to our limited understanding of the molecular basis of AH.
Comment in    Nat Rev Urol. 2015 Aug;12(8):420.
WNT/β-catenin signaling has been described as a crucial regulator of embryonic stem cells and embryogenesis. However, little is known on its role during human preimplantation embryo development, besides the RNA expression of its multiple players. In this study, we performed β-catenin loss- and gain-of-function studies on human preimplantation embryos by adding either Cardamonin or GSK3 inhibitor, 1-Azakenpaullone, to the embryo culture medium from the cleavage until blastocyst stages (Days 3-5/6). β-Catenin was displayed in the cortical region underneath the membrane during all stages, but it only showed nuclear localization at cleavage stages after stabilization with 1-Azakenpaullone. We did not observe any effects on the inner cell mass markers NANOG, POU5F1, SOX2 and SALL4 in these functional experiments. However, both β-catenin degradation and stabilization caused inhibition of the trophectoderm (TE) fate, illustrated by KRT18 and GATA3 RNA, and CDX2 protein expression. Based on the TE-specific WNT3 protein expression in blastocysts, we postulated that this protein may be an upstream regulator for the observed membrane β-catenin function. The addition of either WNT3 or 1-Azakenpaullone to the culture medium promoted EOMES expression specific for trophoblast development. In both studies, the canonical WNT pathway target gene, TCF1, was not affected. Therefore, we conclude that WNT3 and membrane-associated β-catenin promote progenitor trophoblast development in human blastocysts. These results have important implications in assisted reproduction and stem cell biology.
A detailed morphological staging system for cattle embryos at stages following blastocyst hatching and preceding gastrulation is presented here together with spatiotemporal mapping of gene expression for BMP4, BRACHYURY, CERBERUS1 (CER1), CRIPTO, EOMESODERMIN, FURIN and NODAL. Five stages are defined based on distinct developmental events. The first of these is the differentiation of the visceral hypoblast underlying the epiblast, from the parietal hypoblast underlying the mural trophoblast. The second concerns the formation of an asymmetrically positioned, morphologically recognisable region within the visceral hypoblast that is marked by the presence of CER1 and absence of BMP4 expression. We have termed this the anterior visceral hypoblast or AVH. Intra-epiblast cavity formation and the disappearance of the polar trophoblast overlying the epiblast (Rauber's layer) have been mapped in relation to AVH formation. The third chronological event involves the transition of the epiblast into the embryonic ectoderm with concomitant onset of posterior NODAL, EOMES and BRACHYURY expression. Lastly, gastrulation commences as the posterior medial embryonic ectoderm layer thickens to form the primitive streak and cells ingress between the embryonic ectoderm and hypoblast. At this stage a novel domain of CER1 expression is seen whereas the AVH disappears. Comparison with the mouse reveals that while gene expression patterns at the onset of gastrulation are well conserved, asymmetry establishment, which relies on extraembryonic tissues such as the hypoblast and trophoblast, has diverged in terms of both gene expression and morphology.
Tfap2c is required for placental development and trophoblast stem cell maintenance. Deletion of Tfap2c results in early embryonic loss because of failure in placental development. We evaluated the effect of reduced Tfap2c expression on fetal outcome and placental development. Sixty percent of the heterozygous mice were lost directly after birth. Labyrinthine differentiation was impaired, as indicated by enhanced proliferation and inclusions of cobblestone-shaped cell clusters characterized by expression of Tfap2c and glycogen stores. Moreover, expression of marker genes such as Cdx2, Eomes, Gata3, and Ascl2 are decreased in the spongiotrophoblast and indicate a lowered stem cell potential. On Day 18.5 postcoitum, the labyrinth layer of Tfap2c(+/-) placentas exhibited massive hemorrhages in the maternal blood spaces; these hemorrhages might have contributed to the significantly reduced number of live-born pups. These morphological alterations were accompanied by a shift toward sinusoidal trophoblast giant cells as the cell subpopulation lining the maternal sinusoids and toward reduction in expression of the prolactin gene family member Prl2c2, a finding characteristic of the spiral arteries lining trophoblast cells. The trophoblast stem cells heterozygous for Tfap2c exhibited a reduction in the expression level of stem cell markers and in their proliferation and differentiation capacity but did not exhibit changes in marker genes of the trophoblast giant cell lineage. Taken together, these findings indicate that a reduction in the gene dosage of placental Tfap2c leads to morphological changes in the labyrinth at midgestation and in the maternal blood spaces during late pregnancy.
Cancer immunotherapy is undergoing significant progress due to recent clinical successes by refined adoptive T-cell transfer and immunostimulatory monoclonal Ab (mAbs). B16F10-derived OVA-expressing mouse melanomas resist curative immunotherapy with either adoptive transfer of activated anti-OVA OT1 CTLs or agonist anti-CD137 (4-1BB) mAb. However, when acting in synergistic combination, these treatments consistently achieve tumor eradication. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes that accomplish tumor rejection exhibit enhanced effector functions in both transferred OT-1 and endogenous cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). This is consistent with higher levels of expression of eomesodermin in transferred and endogenous CTLs and with intravital live-cell two-photon microscopy evidence for more efficacious CTL-mediated tumor cell killing. Anti-CD137 mAb treatment resulted in prolonged intratumor persistence of the OT1 CTL-effector cells and improved function with focused and confined interaction kinetics of OT-1 CTL with target cells and increased apoptosis induction lasting up to six days postadoptive transfer. The synergy of adoptive T-cell therapy and agonist anti-CD137 mAb thus results from in vivo enhancement and sustainment of effector functions.
Production of olfactory bulb neurons occurs continuously in the rodent brain. Little is known, however, about cellular diversity in the glutamatergic neuron subpopulation. In the central nervous system, the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor NeuroD1 (ND1) is commonly associated with glutamatergic neuron development. In this study, we utilized ND1 to identify the different subpopulations of olfactory bulb glutamategic neurons and their progenitors, both in the embryo and postnatally. Using knock-in mice, transgenic mice and retroviral transgene delivery, we demonstrate the existence of several different populations of glutamatergic olfactory bulb neurons, the progenitors of which are ND1+ and ND1- lineage-restricted, and are temporally and regionally separated. We show that the first olfactory bulb glutamatergic neurons produced - the mitral cells - can be divided into molecularly diverse subpopulations. Our findings illustrate the complexity of neuronal diversity in the olfactory bulb and that seemingly homogenous neuronal populations can consist of multiple subpopulations with unique molecular signatures of transcription factors and expressing neuronal subtype-specific markers.
INTRODUCTION: Effective combination immunotherapeutic strategies may be required to enhance effector cells' anti-tumor activities and improve clinical outcomes.METHODS: XBP1 antigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (XBP1-CTL) generated using immunogenic heteroclitic XBP1 US184-192 (YISPWILAV) and XBP1 SP367-375 (YLFPQLISV) peptides or various solid tumor cells over-expressing XBP1 target antigen were evaluated, either alone or in combination with lenalidomide, for phenotype and immune functional activity.RESULTS: Lenalidomide treatment of XBP1-CTL increased the proportion of CD45RO+ memory CD3+CD8+ T cells, but not the total CD3+CD8+ T cells. Lenalidomide upregulated critical T cell activation markers and costimulatory molecules (CD28, CD38, CD40L, CD69, ICOS), especially within the central memory CTL subset of XBP1-CTL, while decreasing TCRαβ and T cell checkpoint blockade (CTLA-4, PD-1). Lenalidomide increased the anti-tumor activities of XBP1-CTL memory subsets, which were associated with expression of Th1 transcriptional regulators (T-bet, Eomes) and Akt activation, thereby resulting in enhanced IFN-γ production, granzyme B upregulation and specific CD28/CD38-positive and CTLA-4/PD-1-negative cell proliferation.CONCLUSIONS: These studies suggest the potential benefit of lenalidomide treatment to boost anti-tumor activities of XBP1-specific CTL against a variety of solid tumors and enhance response to an XBP1-directing cancer vaccine regime.
The transcription factor brachyury (T, BRA) is one of the first markers of gastrulation and lineage specification in vertebrates. Despite its wide use and importance in stem cell and developmental biology, its functional genomic targets in human cells are largely unknown. Here, we use differentiating human embryonic stem cells to study the role of BRA in activin A-induced endoderm and BMP4-induced mesoderm progenitors. We show that BRA has distinct genome-wide binding landscapes in these two cell populations, and that BRA interacts and collaborates with SMAD1 or SMAD2/3 signalling to regulate the expression of its target genes in a cell-specific manner. Importantly, by manipulating the levels of BRA in cells exposed to different signalling environments, we demonstrate that BRA is essential for mesoderm but not for endoderm formation. Together, our data illuminate the function of BRA in the context of human embryonic development and show that the regulatory role of BRA is context dependent. Our study reinforces the importance of analysing the functions of a transcription factor in different cellular and signalling environments.
Identification of intrathymic eomesodermin(+) (Eomes(+)) CD4 T cells creates a novel idea that there is more than one way for the generation of innate CD4 T cells. Promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger protein(+) T cells and natural Th17 cells are known to be generated by sensing a high and persistent TCR strength, whereas this is not the case for Eomes(+) CD4 T cells. These cells go through low-level signal during the entire maturation pathway, which subsequently leads to induction of high susceptibility to cytokine IL-4. This event seems to be a major determinant for the generation of this type of cell. These T cells are functionally equivalent to Th1 cells that are present in the periphery, and this event takes place both in transgenic and in wild-type mice. There is additional evidence that this type of Eomes(+) innate CD4 T cell is also present in human cord blood.
The acquisition of distinct neuronal fates is fundamental for the function of the cerebral cortex. We find that the development of subcerebral projections from layer 5 neurons in the mouse neocortex depends on the high levels of expression of the transcription factor CTIP1; CTIP1 is coexpressed with CTIP2 in neurons that project to subcerebral targets and with SATB2 in those that project to the contralateral cortex. CTIP1 directly represses Tbr1 in layer 5, which appears as a critical step for the acquisition of the subcerebral fate. In contrast, lower levels of CTIP1 in layer 6 are required for TBR1 expression, which directs the corticothalamic fate. CTIP1 does not appear to play a critical role in the acquisition of the callosal projection fate in layer 5. These findings unravel a key step in the acquisition of cell fate for closely related corticofugal neurons and indicate that differential dosages of transcriptions factors are critical to specify different neuronal identities.
Stress is normal during early embryogenesis and transient, elevated stress is commonplace. Stress in the milieu of the peri-implantation embryo is a summation of maternal hormones, and other elements of the maternal milieu, that signal preparedness for development and implantation. Examples discussed here are leptin, adrenaline, cortisol, and progesterone. These hormones signal maternal nutritional status and provide energy, but also signal stress that diverts maternal and embryonic energy from an optimal embryonic developmental trajectory. These hormones communicate endocrine maternal effects and local embryonic effects although signaling mechanisms are not well understood. Other in vivo stresses affect the embryo such as local infection and inflammation, hypoxia, environmental toxins such as benzopyrene, dioxin, or metals, heat shock, and hyperosmotic stress due to dehydration or diabetes. In vitro, stresses include shear during handling, improper culture media and oxygen levels, cryopreservation, and manipulations of the embryo to introduce sperm or mitochondria. We define stress as any stimulus that slows stem cell accumulation or diminishes the ability of cells to produce normal and sufficient parenchymal products upon differentiation. Thus stress deflects downwards the normal trajectories of development, growth and differentiation. Typically stress is inversely proportional to embryonic developmental and proliferative rates, but can be proportional to induction of differentiation of stem cells in the peri-implantation embryo. When modeling stress it is most interesting to produce a 'runting model' where stress exposures slow accumulation but do not create excessive apoptosis or morbidity. Windows of stress sensitivity may occur when major new embryonic developmental programs require large amounts of energy and are exacerbated if nutritional flow decreases and removes energy from the normal developmental programs and stress responses. These windows correspond to zygotic genome activation, the large mRNA program initiated at compaction, ion pumping required for cavitation, the differentiation of the first lineages, integration with the uterine environment at implantation, rapid proliferation of stem cells, and production of certain lineages which require the highest energy and are most sensitive to mitochondrial inhibition. Stress response mechanisms insure that stem cells for the early embryo and placenta survive at lower stress exposures, and that the organism survives through compensatory and prioritized stem cell differentiation, at higher stress exposures. These servomechanisms include a small set of stress enzymes from the 500 protein kinases in the kinome; the part of the genome coding for protein kinases that hierarchically regulate the activity of other proteins and enzymes. Important protein kinases that mediate the stress response of embryos and their stem cells are SAPK, p38MAPK, AMPK, PI3K, Akt, MEK1/2, MEKK4, PKA, IRE1 and PERK. These stress enzymes have cytosolic function in cell survival at low stress exposures and nuclear function in modifying transcription factor activity at higher stress exposures. Some of the transcription factors (TFs) that are most important in the stress response are JunC, JunB, MAPKAPs, ATF4, XBP1, Oct1, Oct4, HIFs, Nrf2/KEAP, NFKB, MT1, Nfat5, HSF1/2 and potency-maintaining factors Id2, Cdx2, Eomes, Sox2, Nanog, Rex1, and Oct4. Clearly the stress enzymes have a large number of cytosolic and nuclear substrates and the TFs regulate large numbers of genes. The interaction of stress enzymes and TFs in the early embryo and its stem cells are a continuing central focus of research. In vitro regulation of TFs by stress enzymes leads to reprogramming of the stem cell when stress diminishes stem cell accumulation. Since more differentiated product is produced by fewer cells, the process compensates for fewer cells. Coupled with stress-induced compensatory differentiation of stem cells is a tendency to prioritize differentiation by increasing the first essential lineage and decreasing later lineages. These mechanisms include stress enzymes that regulate TFs and provide stress-specific, shared homeostatic cellular and organismal responses of prioritized differentiation.
CD8(+) T-cell memory phenotype and function are acquired after antigen-driven activation. Memory-like cells may also arise in absence of antigenic exposure in the thymus or in the periphery. Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a key transcription factor for the development of these unconventional memory cells. Herein, we show that type I interferon signalling in CD8(+) T cells directly activates Eomes gene expression. Consistent with this observation, the phenotype, function and age-dependent expansion of 'virtual memory' CD8(+) T cells are strongly affected in absence of type I interferon signalling. In addition, type I interferons induce a sustained expansion of 'virtual memory' CD8(+) T cells in an Eomes-dependent fashion. We further show that the development of 'innate thymic' CD8(+) T cells is dependent on the same pathway. In conclusion, we demonstrate that type I interferon signalling in CD8(+) T cells drives Eomes expression and thereby regulates the function and homeostasis of memory-like CD8(+) T cells.
BACKGROUND: Chromatin-modifying complexes have key roles in regulating various aspects of neural stem cell biology, including self-renewal and neurogenesis. The methyl binding domain 3/nucleosome remodelling and deacetylation (MBD3/NuRD) co-repressor complex facilitates lineage commitment of pluripotent cells in early mouse embryos and is important for stem cell homeostasis in blood and skin, but its function in neurogenesis had not been described. Here, we show for the first time that MBD3/NuRD function is essential for normal neurogenesis in mice.RESULTS: Deletion of MBD3, a structural component of the NuRD complex, in the developing mouse central nervous system resulted in reduced cortical thickness, defects in the proper specification of cortical projection neuron subtypes and neonatal lethality. These phenotypes are due to alterations in PAX6+ apical progenitor cell outputs, as well as aberrant terminal neuronal differentiation programmes of cortical plate neurons. Normal numbers of PAX6+ apical neural progenitor cells were generated in the MBD3/NuRD-mutant cortex; however, the PAX6+ apical progenitor cells generate EOMES+ basal progenitor cells in reduced numbers. Cortical progenitor cells lacking MBD3/NuRD activity generate neurons that express both deep- and upper-layer markers. Using laser capture microdissection, gene expression profiling and chromatin immunoprecipitation, we provide evidence that MBD3/NuRD functions to control gene expression patterns during neural development.CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that although MBD3/NuRD is not required for neural stem cell lineage commitment, it is required to repress inappropriate transcription in both progenitor cells and neurons to facilitate appropriate cell lineage choice and differentiation programmes.
SET and MYND domain-containing protein 3 (Smyd3) is a histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) di- and tri-methyltransferase that forms a transcriptional complex with RNA polymerase II and activates the transcription of oncogenes and cell cycle genes in human cancer cells. However, the study of Smyd3 in mammalian early embryonic development has not yet been addressed. In the present study, we investigated the expression pattern of Smyd3 in mouse preimplantation embryos and the effects of RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated Smyd3 repression on the development of mouse embryos. We showed that Smyd3 mRNA levels increased after the two-cell stage, peaked at the four-cell stage, and gradually decreased thereafter. Moreover, in two-cell to eight-cell embryos, SMYD3 staining was more intense in the nuclei than it was in the cytoplasm. In Smyd3-knockdown embryos, the percentage of inner cell mass (ICM)-derived colony formation and trophectoderm (TE)-derived cell attachment were significantly decreased, which resulted in a reduction in the number of viable offspring. Furthermore, the expression of Oct4 and Cdx2 during mid-preimplantation gene activation was significantly decreased in Smyd3-knockdown embryos. In addition, the transcription levels of ICM and epiblast markers, such as Oct4, Nanog, and Sox2, the transcription levels of primitive endoderm markers, such as Gata6, and the transcription levels of TE markers, such as Cdx2 and Eomes, were significantly decreased in Smyd3-knockdown blastocysts. These findings indicate that SMYD3 plays an important role in early embryonic lineage commitment and peri-implantation development through the activation of lineage-specific genes.
Polyclonal CD8(+) T cells, with a marked innate/memory phenotype, high eomesodermin (Eomes) expression, and the capacity to generate IFN-γ rapidly without prior exposure to antigen, have been described in mice. However, even though a pool of human CD8(+) T cells expressing killer Ig-like receptors (KIRs) was recently documented, the existence of a human equivalent of murine innate/memory CD8(+) T cells remains to be established. Here, we provide evidence for a population of KIR/NKG2A(+) CD8(+) T cells in healthy human adults sharing the same features, namely increased Eomes expression, prompt IFN-γ production in response to innate-like stimulation by IL-12+IL-18, and a potent antigen-independent cytotoxic activity along with a preferential terminally differentiated effector memory phenotype. None of the above functional characteristics applied to the KIR/NKG2A(-) fraction of the Eomes(+) CD8(+) T-cell population, thereby underlining the ability of KIR/NKG2A to distinguish between "innate/memory-like" and "conventional/memory" pools of CD8(+) T cells. Remarkably, KIR/NKG2A(+) Eomes(+) CD8(+) T cells with innate-like functions and a memory/terminally differentiated effector memory phenotype were also identified in human cord blood, suggesting that their development did not depend on cognate antigens. Taken together, our results support the conclusion that CD8(+) T cells co-expressing Eomes and KIR/NKG2A may represent a new, functionally distinct "innate/memory-like" subset in humans.
Hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) is an environmental contaminant that is associated with reproductive abnormalities in both humans and animals. In the present study, we evaluated the cytotoxic effect of Cr(VI) on sperm function and subsequent embryo development after in vitro fertilization (IVF). Sperm obtained from BDF1 male mice were treated with potassium dichromate (0, 3.125, 6.25, 12.5, 25, or 50 μM) for 3 h. Cr(VI) significantly decreased sperm viability and acrosome reaction with increasing dose. These Cr(VI)-treated sperms were further used for IVF of oocytes obtained from BDF1 female mice. Results showed that Cr(VI)-treated sperm caused a significant reduction in IVF success, higher developmental arrest at the two-cell stage of embryos, and delayed blastocyst formation with increasing dose. In particular, most blastocysts from the Cr(VI)-treated sperm resulted in hatching failure as well as decreased inner cell mass and trophectoderm (TE). Furthermore, blastocysts obtained from Cr(VI)-treated sperm showed lower expression of not only TE-associated genes (eomes, cdx2, and krt8) but also pluripotent marker genes (sox2, pou5f1, and klf4) that are responsible for further embryo development of blastocyst embryos. The results of our current study showed that Cr(VI)-treated sperm had negative effects on oocyte fertilization and subsequent embryo development.
Murine embryonic stem (ES) cells can differentiate in vitro into three germ layers (endodermic, mesodermic, ectodermic). Studies on the differentiation of these cells to specific early differentiation stages has been aided by an ES cell line carrying the Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) targeted to the Brachyury (Bry) locus which marks mesoderm commitment. Furthermore, expression of the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor receptor 2 (Flk1) along with Bry defines hemangioblast commitment. Isobaric-tag for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ(TM)) and phosphopeptide enrichment coupled to liquid chromatography separation and mass spectrometry allow the study of phosphorylation changes occurring at different stages of ES cell development using Bry and Flk1 expression respectively. We identified and relatively quantified 37 phosphoentities which are modulated during mesoderm-induced ES cells differentiation, comparing epiblast-like, early mesoderm and hemangioblast-enriched cells. Among the proteins differentially phosphorylated toward mesoderm differentiation were: the epigenetic regulator Dnmt3b, the protein kinase GSK3b, the chromatin remodeling factor Smarcc1, the transcription factor Utf1; as well as protein specifically related to stem cell differentiation, as Eomes, Hmga2, Ints1 and Rif1. As most key factors regulating early hematopoietic development have also been implicated in various types of leukemia, understanding the post-translational modifications driving their regulation during normal development could result in a better comprehension of their roles during abnormal hematopoiesis in leukemia.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of hippocampus are unknown in humans. To improve our knowledge of molecules that potentially regulate pyramidal neurogenesis and layering in various hippocampal fields, we investigated the expression of progenitor markers and cell fate molecules from gestational week (GW) 9 to GW 20. At GW 9, the progenitor cell compartment of the hippocampal formation mainly consisted of PAX6(+) cells in the ventricular zone. Between GW 9 and 11, a second germinal area, the subventricular zone (SVZ), was formed, as shown by TBR2 labeling. Postmitotic markers (TBR1, CTIP2, SATB2, and CUX1) might reflect the inside-out layering of the plate from GW 11 onwards. TBR1(+) neurons appeared in the deep plate, whereas CTIP2(+), SATB2(+), and CUX1(+) neurons occupied the upper layers. From GW 16, differences in layer segregation were observed between the ammonic and subicular plates. Moreover, an ammonic-to-subicular maturation gradient was observed in germinal/postmitotic areas. Taken together, these findings demonstrate for the first time the presence of an SVZ in the hippocampus of human fetuses and laminar differences in transcription factor expression in the pyramidal layer of the human ammonic and subicular plate, and provide new information to further investigate the connectivity of the hippocampal formation.
PURPOSE: Recent studies have shown that 7% to 12% of endometrial cancers are ultramutated due to somatic mutation in the proofreading exonuclease domain of the DNA replicase POLE. Interestingly, these tumors have an excellent prognosis. In view of the emerging data linking mutation burden, immune response, and clinical outcome in cancer, we investigated whether POLE-mutant endometrial cancers showed evidence of increased immunogenicity.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We examined immune infiltration and activation according to tumor POLE proofreading mutation in a molecularly defined endometrial cancer cohort including 47 POLE-mutant tumors. We sought to confirm our results by analysis of RNAseq data from the TCGA endometrial cancer series and used the same series to examine whether differences in immune infiltration could be explained by an enrichment of immunogenic neoepitopes in POLE-mutant endometrial cancers.RESULTS: Compared with other endometrial cancers, POLE mutants displayed an enhanced cytotoxic T-cell response, evidenced by increased numbers of CD8(+) tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and CD8A expression, enrichment for a tumor-infiltrating T-cell gene signature, and strong upregulation of the T-cell cytotoxic differentiation and effector markers T-bet, Eomes, IFNG, PRF, and granzyme B. This was accompanied by upregulation of T-cell exhaustion markers, consistent with chronic antigen exposure. In silico analysis confirmed that POLE-mutant cancers are predicted to display more antigenic neoepitopes than other endometrial cancers, providing a potential explanation for our findings.CONCLUSIONS: Ultramutated POLE proofreading-mutant endometrial cancers are characterized by a robust intratumoral T-cell response, which correlates with, and may be caused by an enrichment of antigenic neopeptides. Our study provides a plausible mechanism for the excellent prognosis of these cancers.
Several neural precursor populations contemporaneously generate neurons in the developing neocortex. Specifically, radial glial stem cells of the dorsal telencephalon divide asymmetrically to produce excitatory neurons, but also indirectly to produce neurons via three types of intermediate progenitor cells. Why so many precursor types are needed to produce neurons has not been established; whether different intermediate progenitor cells merely expand the output of radial glia or instead generate distinct types of neurons is unknown. Here we use a novel genetic fate mapping technique to simultaneously track multiple precursor streams in the developing mouse brain and show that layer 2 and 3 pyramidal neurons exhibit distinctive electrophysiological and structural properties depending upon their precursor cell type of origin. These data indicate that individual precursor subclasses synchronously produce functionally different neurons, even within the same lamina, and identify a primary mechanism leading to cortical neuronal diversity.
OBJECTIVES: Maintenance of functional beta cell mass is critical for prevention of diabetes. The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) receptor signalling pathway plays an essential role in pancreatic development. However, its involvement in control of post-natal beta cell growth has only been recently reported.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Here, we studied the role of TGF-β receptor signalling in beta cell proliferation after 50% partial pancreatectomy (PPx), using beta cell-specific TGF-β receptor II (TBR2)-mutated mice.RESULTS: Consistent with previous reports, we found that inhibition of TGF-β receptor signalling in beta cells resulted in slightly higher beta cell mass 1 week after PPx, due to greater beta cell proliferation. However, beta cell mass in these beta cell-specific TBR2-mutated mice significantly decreased by 12 weeks after PPx, resulting from increase in beta cell apoptosis.CONCLUSIONS: Our data thus suggest that TGF-β receptor signalling may be required for prevention of beta cell death after proliferation, and highlight this pathway as an essential regulator during post-natal beta cell homoeostasis.
Erratum in    Eur J Immunol. 2015 Aug;45(8):2420.
NK cells represent a vital component of the innate immune system. The recent discoveries demonstrating that the functionality of NK cells depends on their differentiation and education status underscore their potential as targets for immune intervention. However, to exploit their full potential, a detailed understanding of the cellular interactions involved in these processes is required. In this regard, the cross-talk between NKT cells and NK cells needs to be better understood. Our results provide strong evidence for NKT cell-induced effects on key biological features of NK cells. NKT-cell activation results in the generation of highly active CD27(high) NK cells with improved functionality. In this context, degranulation activity and IFNγ production were mainly detected in the educated subset. In a mCMV infection model, we also demonstrated that NKT-cell stimulation induced the generation of highly functional educated and uneducated NK cells, crucial players in viral control. Thus, our findings reveal new fundamental aspects of the NKT-NK cell axis that provide important hints for the manipulation of NK cells in clinical settings.
Comment in    PLoS Genet. 2015 Mar;11(3):e1004979.
Mismatched hematopoietic cell transplants for treating leukemia are complicated by graft versus host disease (GvHD). Here, we show that adoptively transferred IL-12/15/18-preactivated NK cells suppress GvHD in a mouse model of fully mismatched hematopoietic cell transplantation. These IL-12/15/18-preactivated NK cells maintained Eomesodermin (Eomes) and T-bet expression upon transfer and, while there was no evidence of direct killing of donor T cells or host DCs by the IL-12/15/18-preactivated NK cells, proliferation of donor T cells was inhibited. Strikingly, the graft versus leukemia effect mediated by donor T cells was retained, resulting in improved overall survival of mice that received lymphoma cells, donor allogeneic T cells, and IL-12/15/18-preactivated NK cells. These results suggest that IL-12/15/18-preactivated NK cells may be useful in improving immunotherapy of mismatched hematopoietic cell transplantation. Compared with previously proposed protocols, our findings suggest that in vitro NK-cell preactivation with this cytokine cocktail offers the significant advantage that cytokines do not need to be administered systemically to sustain NK-cell activity, thus avoiding toxicity.
Erratum in    PLoS Pathog. 2015 Jun;11(6):e1004968.
Erratum in    PLoS Genet. 2015 Jun;11(6):e1005329. Zhou, Jinfeng [corrected to Zou, Jinfeng].
After the resolution of the acute phase of infection, otherwise quiescent antigen-experienced CD8(+) T cells confer rapid protection upon reinfection with viral pathogens or, in the case of persistent viruses, help to maintain control of the infection. Depending on the type of virus, antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells have distinct traits, ranging from typical memory cell properties in the case of rapidly cleared viruses to immediate effector functions for persistent viruses. We here show that both the differentiation stage, defined by the expression of cell surface markers, such as CD45RA, CCR7, CD28, and CD27, and distinct expression levels of T-bet and eomesodermin (Eomes) predict the functional profile of antigen-experienced CD8(+) T cells. Furthermore, virus-specific CD8(+) T cells targeting different respiratory syncytial virus-, influenza A virus-, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-, human cytomegalovirus (hCMV)-, and HIV-1-specific epitopes adopt distinct T-bet and Eomes expression patterns that appear to be installed early during the primary response. Importantly, the associations between surface phenotype, T-bet/Eomes expression levels, and the expression of markers that predict CD8(+) T-cell function change according to viral infection history, particularly against the background of HIV-1 and, to lesser extent, of human cytomegalovirus and/or Epstein-Barr virus infection. Thus, the functionality of human antigen-experienced CD8(+) T cells follows at least two dimensions, one outlined by the surface phenotype and another by the T-bet/Eomes expression levels, which are determined by previous or persistent viral challenges.IMPORTANCE: Functional human CD8(+) T-cell subsets have been defined using surface markers like CD45RA, CCR7, CD28, and CD27. However, the induction of function-defining traits, like granzyme B expression, is controlled by transcription factors like T-bet and Eomes. Here, we describe how T-bet and Eomes levels distinctly relate to the expression of molecules predictive for CD8(+) T-cell function in a surface phenotype-independent manner. Importantly, we found that central memory and effector memory CD8(+) T-cell subsets differentially express T-bet, Eomes, and molecules predictive for function according to viral infection history, particularly so in the context of HIV-1 infection and, to lesser extent, of latent EBV- and/or hCMV-infected, otherwise healthy adults. Finally, we show that the distinct phenotypes and T-bet/Eomes levels of different virus-specific CD8(+) T-cell populations are imprinted early during the acute phase of primary infection in vivo. These findings broaden our understanding of CD8(+) T-cell differentiation.
Nonconventional innate memory CD8(+) T cells characteristically expressing CD44, CD122, eomesodermin (Eomes) and promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger (PLZF) were derived in culture from CD4(+)CD8(+) double positive (DP) thymocytes of normal BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice. These culture-differentiated cells constitutively express toll-like receptor (TLR)4 and release interferon (IFN)-γ and interleukin (IL)-10. We show the TLR4-ligand lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulate the TLR and up-regulate IFN-γ skewing the cells towards type 1 polarization. In presence of LPS these cells also express suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS)1 and thus suppress IL-10 expression. In contrast, heat shock protein (Hsp)70 down-regulated TLR4 augmenting the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. In association with IL-10 release IFN-γ was abrogated. The programmed cell death (PD)-1 mostly present in regulatory T cells was stimulated in these IL-10 producing cells by Hsp70 and not LPS indicating the cells can be driven to two contrast outcomes by the two TLR4 ligands. Our work provides a scope for in vitro monitoring of CD8(+) T cells to decipher important immune therapeutic option during infection or sepsis.
Natural killer (NK) cells are critical in eliminating tumors and viral infections, both of which occur at a high incidence in the elderly. Previous studies showed that aged NK cells are less cytotoxic and exhibit impaired maturation compared to young NK cells. We evaluated whether extrinsic or intrinsic factors were responsible for the impaired maturation and function of NK cells in aging and whether impaired maturation correlated with functional hyporesponsiveness. We confirmed that aged mice have a significant decrease in the frequency of mature NK cells in all lymphoid organs. Impaired NK cell maturation in aged mice correlated with a reduced capacity to eliminate allogeneic and B16 tumor targets in vivo. This could be explained by impaired degranulation, particularly by mature NK cells of aged mice. Consistent with impaired aged NK cell maturation, expression of T-bet and Eomes, which regulate NK cell functional maturation, was significantly decreased in aged bone marrow (BM) NK cells. Mixed BM chimeras revealed that the nonhematopoietic environment was a key determinant of NK cell maturation and T-bet and Eomes expression. In mixed BM chimeras, NK cells derived from both young or aged BM cells adopted an 'aged' phenotype in an aged host, that is, were hyporesponsive to stimuli in vitro, while adopting a 'young' phenotype following transfer in young hosts. Overall, our data suggest that the aged nonhematopoietic environment is responsible for the impaired maturation and function of NK cells. Defining these nonhematopoietic factors could have important implications for improving NK cell function in the elderly.
Although NK cells are considered innate, recent studies in mice revealed the existence of a unique lineage of hepatic CD49a(+)DX5(-) NK cells with adaptive-like features. Development of this NK cell lineage is, in contrast to conventional NK cells, dependent on T-bet but not Eomes. In this study, we describe the identification of a T-bet(+)Eomes(-)CD49a(+) NK cell subset readily detectable in the human liver, but not in afferent or efferent hepatic venous or peripheral blood. Human intrahepatic CD49a(+) NK cells express killer cell Ig-like receptor and NKG2C, indicative of having undergone clonal-like expansion, are CD56(bright), and express low levels of CD16, CD57, and perforin. After stimulation, CD49a(+) NK cells express high levels of inflammatory cytokines but degranulate poorly. CD49a(+) NK cells retain their phenotype after expansion in long-term in vitro cultures. These results demonstrate the presence of a likely human counterpart of mouse intrahepatic NK cells with adaptive-like features.
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a highly heritable disease, but until recently few replicated genetic markers have been identified. Markers identified so far are likely to account for only a tiny fraction of the heritability of AD and many more genetic risk alleles are thought to be undiscovered.OBJECTIVE: Identifying genetic markers for AD using combined analysis of genetics and brain imaging data.METHODS: Imaging quantitative trait loci (iQTLs) has recently emerged as an interesting research area for linking genetics of brain changes to AD. We consider a genome-wide association scan of 109 brain-wide regional imaging phenotypes to identify genetic susceptibility loci for AD from a combined set of 1,045 subjects from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) and the AddNeuroMed studies. We use one-SNP-at-a-time as well as multi-SNP Hyperlasso based iQTL methods for the analysis.RESULTS: We identified several novel markers associated with AD, namely HOMER2 (rs1256429; intronic, p = 8.7 × 10⁻¹⁰), EOMES (rs2724509; flanking), JAM2 (rs2829841; intronic), and WEE1 (rs10770042; coding). The SNP rs1256429 (HOMER2) was one of the top hits in Hyperlasso as well as in the single-SNP analysis showing an association with the volume of the right thalamus and AD, a brain region reported to be linked with AD in several studies.CONCLUSION: We believe that the markers identified in this study are novel additions to the existing list of genetic variants associated with AD which can be validated in future replicated studies.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) is transferred to humans by ticks. The virus causes tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) with symptoms such as meningitis and meningoencephalitis. About one third of the patients suffer from long-lasting sequelae after clearance of the infection. Studies of the immune response during TBEV-infection are essential to the understanding of host responses to TBEV-infection and for the development of therapeutics. Here, we studied in detail the primary CD8 T cell response to TBEV in patients with acute TBE. Peripheral blood CD8 T cells mounted a considerable response to TBEV-infection as assessed by Ki67 and CD38 co-expression. These activated cells showed a CD45RA-CCR7-CD127- phenotype at day 7 after hospitalization, phenotypically defining them as effector cells. An immunodominant HLA-A2-restricted TBEV epitope was identified and utilized to study the characteristics and temporal dynamics of the antigen-specific response. The functional profile of TBEV-specific CD8 T cells was dominated by variants of mono-functional cells as the effector response matured. Antigen-specific CD8 T cells predominantly displayed a distinct Eomes+Ki67+T-bet+ effector phenotype at the peak of the response, which transitioned to an Eomes-Ki67-T-bet+ phenotype as the infection resolved and memory was established. These transcription factors thus characterize and discriminate stages of the antigen-specific T cell response during acute TBEV-infection. Altogether, CD8 T cells responded strongly to acute TBEV infection and passed through an effector phase, prior to gradual differentiation into memory cells with distinct transcription factor expression-patterns throughout the different phases.
This study compared second-generation chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) encoding signaling domains composed of CD28, ICOS, and 4-1BB (TNFRSF9). Here, we report that certain CARs endow T cells with the ability to undergo long-term autonomous proliferation. Transduction of primary human T cells with lentiviral vectors encoding some of the CARs resulted in sustained proliferation for up to 3 months following a single stimulation through the T-cell receptor (TCR). Sustained numeric expansion was independent of cognate antigen and did not require the addition of exogenous cytokines or feeder cells after a single stimulation of the TCR and CD28. Results from gene array and functional assays linked sustained cytokine secretion and expression of T-bet (TBX21), EOMES, and GATA-3 to the effect. Sustained expression of the endogenous IL2 locus has not been reported in primary T cells. Sustained proliferation was dependent on CAR structure and high expression, the latter of which was necessary but not sufficient. The mechanism involves constitutive signaling through NF-κB, AKT, ERK, and NFAT. The propagated CAR T cells retained a diverse TCR repertoire, and cellular transformation was not observed. The CARs with a constitutive growth phenotype displayed inferior antitumor effects and engraftment in vivo. Therefore, the design of CARs that have a nonconstitutive growth phenotype may be a strategy to improve efficacy and engraftment of CAR T cells. The identification of CARs that confer constitutive or nonconstitutive growth patterns may explain observations that CAR T cells have differential survival patterns in clinical trials.
NK cells are a major component of the immune system, and alterations in their activity are correlated with various autoimmune diseases. In the present work, we observed an increased expression of the NKG2D ligand MICA in SLE patients' kidneys but not healthy subjects. We also show glomerulus-specific expression of the NKG2D ligands Rae-1 and Mult-1 in various murine SLE models, which correlated with a higher number of glomerular-infiltrating NK cells. As the role of NK cells in the immunopathogenesis of SLE is poorly understood, we explored NK cell differentiation and activity in tissues and organs in SLE-prone murine models by use of diseased and prediseased MRL/MpJ and MRL/lpr mice. We report here that phenotypically iNK cells accumulate only in the spleen but not in BM or kidneys of diseased mice. Infiltrating NK cells in kidneys undergoing a lupus nephritic process showed a more mature, activated phenotype compared with kidney, as well as peripheral NK cells from prediseased mice, as determined by IFN-γ and STAT5 analysis. These findings and the presence of glomerulus-specific NKG2D ligands in lupus-prone mice identify a role for NK cells and NKG2D ligands in the lupus nephritic process, which could aid in understanding their role in human SLE.
Vaccine efficacy depends on strong long-term development of immune memory and the formation of memory CD8(+) T cells is critical for recall responses to infection. Upon antigen recognition by naïve T cells, the strength of the TcR signal influences the subsequent effector and memory cells differentiation. Here, we have examined the role of Itk, a tyrosine kinase critical for TcR signaling, in CD8(+) effector and memory T cell differentiation during Listeria monocytogenes infection. We found that the reduced TcR signal strength in Itk deficient naïve CD8(+) T cells enhances the generation of memory T cells during infection. This is accompanied by increased early Eomesodermin, IL-7Rα expression and memory precursor effector cells. Furthermore, Itk is required for optimal cytokine production in responding primary effector cells, but not secondary memory responses. Our data suggests that Itk-mediated signals control the expression of Eomesodermin and IL-7Rα, thus regulating the development of memory CD8(+) T cells, but not subsequent response of memory cells.
Decidual and uterine natural killer (NK) cells have been shown to contribute to the successful pregnancy both in humans and mice. NK cells represent "cytotoxic" group 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) and are distinct from the recently described "helper" ILC1. Here, we show that both in humans and mice the majority of group 1 ILC in endometrium/uterus and decidua express Eomesodermin (Eomes), thus suggesting that they are developmentally related to conventional NK cells. However, they differ from peripheral NK cells. In humans, Eomes(+) decidual NK (dNK) cells express CD49a and other markers of tissue residency, including CD103, integrin β7, CD9, and CD69. The expression of CD103 allows the identification of different subsets of IFNγ-producing Eomes(+) NK cells. We show that TGFβ can sustain/induce CD103 and CD9 expression in dNK cells and decidual CD34-derived NK cells, indicating that the decidual microenvironment can instruct the phenotype of Eomes(+) NK cells. In murine decidua and uterus, Eomes(+) cells include CD49a(-)CD49b(+) conventional NK cells and CD49a(+) cells. Notably, Eomes(+)CD49a(+) cells are absent in spleen and liver. Decidual and uterine Eomes(+)CD49a(+) cells can be dissected in two peculiar cell subsets according to CD49b expression. CD49a(+)CD49b ((-)) and CD49a(+)CD49b(+) cells are enriched in immature CD11b(low)CD27(high) cells, while CD49a(-)CD49b(+) cells contain higher percentages of mature CD11b(high)CD27(low) cells, both in uterus and decidua. Moreover, Eomes(+)CD49a(+)CD49b(-) cells decrease during gestation, thus suggesting that this peculiar subset may be required in early pregnancy rather than on later phases. Conversely, a minor Eomes(-)CD49a(+) ILC1 population present in decidua and uterus increases during pregnancy. CD49b(-)Eomes(±) cells produce mainly TNF, while CD49a(-)CD49b(+) conventional NK cells and CD49a(+)CD49b(+) cells produce both IFNγ and TNF. Thus, human and murine decidua contains unique subsets of group 1 ILCs, including Eomes(+) and Eomes(-) cells, with peculiar phenotypic and functional features. Our study contributes to re-examination of the complexity of uterine and decidual ILC subsets in humans and mice and highlights the role of the decidual microenvironment in shaping the features of these cells.
Natural killer (NK) cells play an essential role in the immune response to infection and cancer. After infection or during homeostatic expansion NK cells express a developmental program that includes a contraction phase followed by the formation of long-lived mature memory-like cells. Although this NK cell response pattern is well established, the underlying mechanisms that ensure efficient transition to long-lived NK cells remain largely undefined. Here we report that deficient expression of intracellular osteopontin (OPN-i) by NK cells results in defective responses to IL-15 associated with a substantial increase in the NK cell contraction phase of homeostatic expansion, defective expression of the Eomes transcription factor, and diminished responses to metastatic tumors. The OPN-i-deficient phenotype is accompanied by increased NK cell apoptosis, impaired transition from immature to mature NK cells, and diminished ability to develop memory-like NK cells that respond to mouse cytomegalovirus. Gene pathway analysis of OPN-i-deficient NK cells suggests that the mechanistic target of rapamycin pathway may connect OPN-i to Eomes and T-bet expression by mature NK cells following up-regulation of OPN-i after IL-15 stimulation. Identification of OPN-i as an essential molecular component for maintenance of functional NK cell expansion provides insight into the NK cell response and may provide the basis for improved approaches to immunotherapy for infectious disease and cancer.
Comment in    EMBO J. 2015 Apr 1;34(7):832-4.
Coinhibitory receptor blockade is a promising strategy to boost T-cell immunity against a variety of human cancers. However, many patients still do not benefit from this treatment, and responders often experience immune-related toxicities. These issues highlight the need for advanced mechanistic understanding to improve patient outcomes and uncover clinically relevant biomarkers of treatment efficacy. However, the T-cell-intrinsic signaling pathways engaged during checkpoint blockade treatment are not well defined, particularly for combination approaches. Using a murine model to study how effector CD8(+) T-cell responses to tumors may be enhanced in a tolerizing environment, we identified a critical role for the T-box transcription factor T-bet. Combination blockade of CTLA-4, PD-1, and LAG-3 induced T-bet expression in responding tumor/self-reactive CD8(+) T cells. Eradication of established leukemia using this immunotherapy regimen depended on T-bet induction, which was required for IFNγ production and cytotoxicity by tumor-infiltrating T cells, and for efficient trafficking to disseminated tumor sites. These data provide new insight into the success of checkpoint blockade for cancer immunotherapy, revealing T-bet as a key transcriptional regulator of tumor-reactive CD8(+) T-cell effector differentiation under otherwise tolerizing conditions.
Erratum in    Sci Rep. 2015;5:8180.
Embryo splitting might be used to increase offspring yield and for molecular analysis of embryo competence. How splitting affects developmental potential of embryos is unknown. This research aimed to study the effect of bovine blastocyst splitting on morphological and gene expression homogeneity of demi-embryos and on embryo competence during elongation. Grade I bovine blastocyst produced in vitro were split into halves and distributed in nine groups (3 × 3 setting according to age and stage before splitting; age: days 7-9; stage: early, expanded and hatched blastocysts). Homogeneity and survival rate in vitro after splitting (12 h, days 10 and 13) and the effect of splitting on embryo development at elongation after embryo transfer (day 17) were assessed morphologically and by RT-qPCR. The genes analysed were OCT4, SOX2, NANOG, CDX2, TP1, TKDP1, EOMES, and BAX. Approximately 90% of split embryos had a well conserved defined inner cell mass (ICM), 70% of the halves had similar size with no differences in gene expression 12 h after splitting. Split embryos cultured further conserved normal and comparable morphology at day 10 of development; this situation changes at day 13 when embryo morphology and gene expression differed markedly among demi-embryos. Split and non-split blastocysts were transferred to recipient cows and were recovered at day 17. Fifty per cent of non-split embryos were larger than 100 mm (33% for split embryos). OCT4, SOX2, TP1 and EOMES levels were down-regulated in elongated embryos derived from split blastocysts. In conclusion, splitting day-8 blastocysts yields homogenous demi-embryos in terms of developmental capability and gene expression, but the initiation of the filamentous stage seems to be affected by the splitting.
In response to primary Ag contact, naive mouse CD8(+) T cells undergo clonal expansion and differentiate into effector T cells. After pathogen clearance, most effector T cells die, and only a small number of memory T cell precursors (TMPs) survive to form a pool of long-lived memory T cells (TMs). Although high- and low-affinity CD8(+) T cell clones are recruited into the primary response, the TM pool consists mainly of high-affinity clones. It remains unclear whether the more efficient expansion of high-affinity clones and/or cell-intrinsic processes exclude low-affinity T cells from the TM pool. In this article, we show that the lack of IFN-γR signaling in CD8(+) T cells promotes TM formation in response to weak, but not strong, TCR agonists. The IFN-γ-sensitive accumulation of TMs correlates with reduced mammalian target of rapamycin activation and the accumulation of long-lived CD62L(hi)Bcl-2(hi)Eomes(hi) TMPs. Reconstitution of mammalian target of rapamycin or IFN-γR signaling is sufficient to block this process. Hence, our data suggest that IFN-γR signaling actively blocks the formation of TMPs responding to weak TCR agonists, thereby promoting the accumulation of high-affinity T cells finally dominating the TM pool.
If Bcl11b activity is compromised, CD4(+)CD8(+) double-positive (DP) thymocytes produce a greatly increased fraction of innate CD8(+) single-positive (SP) cells highly producing IFN-γ, which are also increased in mice deficient of genes such as Itk, Id3 and NF-κB1 that affect TCR signaling. Of interest, the increase in the former two is due to the bystander effect of IL-4 that is secreted by promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger-expressing NKT and γδT cells whereas the increase in the latter is cell intrinsic. Bcl11b zinc-finger proteins play key roles in T cell development and T cell-mediated immune response likely through TCR signaling. We examined thymocytes at and after the DP stage in Bcl11b (F/S826G) CD4cre, Bcl11b (F/+) CD4cre and Bcl11b (+/S826G) mice, carrying the allele that substituted serine for glycine at the position of 826. Here we show that Bcl11b impairment leads to an increase in the population of TCRαβ(high)CD44(high)CD122(high) innate CD8SP thymocytes, together with two different developmental abnormalities: impaired positive and negative selection accompanying a reduction in the number of CD8SP cells, and developmental arrest of NKT cells at multiple steps. The innate CD8SP thymocytes express Eomes and secrete IFN-γ after stimulation with PMA and ionomycin, and in this case their increase is not due to a bystander effect of IL-4 but cell intrinsic. Those results indicate that Bcl11b regulates development of different thymocyte subsets at multiple stages and prevents an excess of innate CD8SP thymocytes.
Immunotherapies targeting the programmed death 1 (PD-1) coinhibitory receptor have shown great promise for a subset of patients with cancer. However, robust and safe combination therapies are still needed to bring the benefit of cancer immunotherapy to broader patient populations. To search for an optimal strategy of combinatorial immunotherapy, we have compared the antitumor activity of the anti-4-1BB/anti-PD-1 combination with that of the anti-PD-1/anti-LAG-3 combination in the poorly immunogenic B16F10 melanoma model. Pronounced tumor inhibition occurred only in animals receiving anti-PD-1 and anti-4-1BB concomitantly, while combining anti-PD-1 with anti-LAG-3 led to a modest degree of tumor suppression. The activity of the anti-4-1BB/anti-PD-1 combination was dependent on IFNγ and CD8(+) T cells. Both 4-1BB and PD-1 proteins were elevated on the surface of CD8(+) T cells by anti-4-1BB/anti-PD-1 cotreatment. In the tumor microenvironment, an effective antitumor immune response was induced as indicated by the increased CD8(+)/Treg ratio and the enrichment of genes such as Cd3e, Cd8a, Ifng, and Eomes. In the spleen, the combination treatment shaped the immune system to an effector/memory phenotype and increased the overall activity of tumor-specific CD8(+) CTLs, reflecting a long-lasting systemic antitumor response. Furthermore, combination treatment in C57BL/6 mice showed no additional safety signals, and only minimally increased severity of the known toxicity relative to 4-1BB agonist alone. Therefore, in the absence of any cancer vaccine, anti-4-1BB/anti-PD-1 combination therapy is sufficient to elicit a robust antitumor effector/memory T-cell response in an aggressive tumor model and is therefore a candidate for combination trials in patients.
BACKGROUND: Peripheral blood samples have been subjected to comprehensive gene expression profiling to identify biomarkers for a wide range of diseases. However, blood samples include red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. White blood cells comprise polymorphonuclear leukocytes, monocytes, and various types of lymphocytes. Blood is not distinguishable, irrespective of whether the expression profiles reflect alterations in (a) gene expression patterns in each cell type or (b) the proportion of cell types in blood. CD4+ Th cells are classified into two functionally distinct subclasses, namely Th1 and Th2 cells, on the basis of the unique characteristics of their secreted cytokines and their roles in the immune system. Th1 and Th2 cells play an important role not only in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory, allergic, and autoimmune diseases, but also in diseases that are not considered to be immune or inflammatory disorders. However, analyses of minor cellular components such as CD4+ cell subpopulations have not been performed, partly because of the limited number of these cells in collected samples.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We describe fluorescently activated cell sorting followed by microarray (FACS-array) technology as a useful experimental strategy for characterizing the expression profiles of specific immune cells in the circulation. We performed reproducible gene expression profiling of Th1 and Th2, respectively. Our data suggest that this procedure provides reliable information on the gene expression profiles of certain small immune cell populations. Moreover, our data suggest that GZMK, GZMH, EOMES, IGFBP3, and STOM may be novel markers for distinguishing Th1 cells from Th2 cells, whereas IL17RB and CNTNAP1 can be Th2-specific markers.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our approach may help in identifying aberrations and novel therapeutic or diagnostic targets for diseases that affect Th1 or Th2 responses and elucidating the involvement of a subpopulation of immune cells in some diseases.
CMV remains an important opportunistic pathogen in solid organ transplantation, particularly in lung transplant recipients (LTRs). LTRs mismatched for CMV (donor+/recipient-; D+R-) are at high-risk for active CMV infection and increased mortality, however the immune correlates of viral control remain incompletely understood. We prospectively studied 23 D+R- LTRs during primary CMV infection to determine whether acute CD8(+) T cell parameters differentiated the capacity for viral control in early chronic infection. T-box transcription factors expression patterns of T-bet > Eomesodermin (Eomes) differentiated LTR controllers from viremic relapsers and reciprocally correlated with granzyme B loading, and CMV phosphoprotein 65 (pp65)-specific CD8(+)IFN-γ(+) and CD107a(+) frequencies. LTR relapsers demonstrated reduced CD8(+)Ki67(+) cells ex vivo and substantially impaired CD8(+)pp65-specific in vitro proliferative responses at 6 d, with concomitantly lower pp65-specific CD4(+)IL-2(+) frequencies, as compared with LTR controllers. However, CMV-specific in vitro proliferative responses could be significantly rescued, most effectively with pp65 Ag and exogenous IL-2, resulting in an increased T-bet:Eomes balance, and enhanced effector function. Using class I CMV tetramers, we observed similar frequencies between relapsers and controllers, although reduced T-bet:Eomes balance in tetramer(+) cells from relapsers, along with impaired CD8(+) effector responses to tetramer-peptide restimulation. Taken together, these data show impaired CMV-specific CD8(+) effector responses is not for complete lack of CMV-specific cells but rather underscores the importance of the T-bet:Eomes balance, with CMV-specific proliferation a key factor driving early T-bet expression and effector function in CD8(+) T cells during primary infection and differentiating the capacity of high-risk LTRs to establish immune control during early chronic infection.
The NKp46 protein is found on resting and activated natural killer (NK) cells and is involved in the recognition of malignant and infected cells. The expression of NKp46 is believed to precede that of DX5 in early NK cell development. We show that this is not the case in the bone marrow (BM). Here, NKp46 is predominantly expressed after DX5, whereas the liver harbors a subpopulation that expresses NKp46 but not DX5. NK cell precursors in the liver show much lower levels of Eomesodermin than NK cell precursors in the BM, although they express higher levels of granzymes and unlike the NK cell precursors in the BM are fully able to degranulate and produce interferon gamma (IFN-γ). The development of NK cells thus differs between the two organs. This needs to be considered when using NKp46 and DX5 as NK cell markers and when performing NK cell-specific gene deletion in Ncr1 transgenic mice.
Opsin 4 (Opn4)/melanopsin-expressing intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) play a major role in non-image-forming visual system. Although advances have been made in understanding their morphological features and functions, the molecular mechanisms that regulate their formation and survival remain unknown. Previously, we found that mouse T-box brain 2 (Tbr2) (also known as Eomes), a T-box-containing transcription factor, was expressed in a subset of newborn RGCs, suggesting that it is involved in the formation of specific RGC subtypes. In this in vivo study, we used complex mouse genetics, single-cell dye tracing, and behavioral analyses to determine whether Tbr2 regulates ipRGC formation and survival. Our results show the following: (1) Opn4 is expressed exclusively in Tbr2-positive RGCs; (2) no ipRGCs are detected when Tbr2 is genetically ablated before RGC specification; and (3) most ipRGCs are eliminated when Tbr2 is deleted in established ipRGCs. The few remaining ipRGCs display abnormal dendritic morphological features and functions. In addition, some Tbr2-expressing RGCs can activate Opn4 expression on the loss of native ipRGCs, suggesting that Tbr2-expressing RGCs may serve as a reservoir of ipRGCs to regulate the number of ipRGCs and the expression levels of Opn4.
Interleukin (IL)-4 is a cytokine classically associated with CD4(+) T helper type 2 differentiation, but has been recently shown to also be required for the development of CD8(+) innate-like lymphocytes. CD8(+) innate-like lymphocytes are non-conventional lymphocytes that exhibit characteristics typically associated with memory CD8(+) T cells, including expression of the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes). Here we investigate the signaling pathways required for IL-4 induction of Eomes and CD8(+) innate-like lymphocyte markers in murine CD8SP thymocytes and peripheral CD8(+) T cells. We demonstrate that IL-4 is sufficient to drive Eomes expression and the CD8(+) innate-like lymphocyte phenotype through cooperation between STAT6- and Akt-dependent pathways. Furthermore, we show that while IL-4 has little effect on the induction of Eomes in the setting of robust T cell receptor (TCR) activation, this cytokine promotes Eomes in the setting of attenuated TCR stimulation in mature CD8(+) T cells suggesting that cytokine signaling pathways may direct cell fate when TCR signals are limiting.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2015;10(3):e0121167.
Neurons of the mammalian neocortex are produced by proliferating cells located in the ventricular zone (VZ) lining the lateral ventricles. This is a complex and sequential process, requiring precise control of cell cycle progression, fate commitment and differentiation. We have analyzed publicly available databases from mouse and human to identify candidate genes that are potentially involved in regulating early neocortical development and neurogenesis. We used a mouse in situ hybridization dataset (The Allen Institute for Brain Science) to identify 13 genes (Cdon, Celsr1, Dbi, E2f5, Eomes, Hmgn2, Neurog2, Notch1, Pcnt, Sox3, Ssrp1, Tead2, Tgif2) with high correlation of expression in the proliferating cells of the VZ of the neocortex at early stages of development (E15.5). We generated a similar human brain network using microarray and RNA-seq data (BrainSpan Atlas) and identified 407 genes with high expression in the developing human VZ and subventricular zone (SVZ) at 8-9 post-conception weeks. Seven of the human genes were also present in the mouse VZ network. The human and mouse networks were extended using available genetic and proteomic datasets through GeneMANIA. A gene ontology search of the mouse and human networks indicated that many of the genes are involved in the cell cycle, DNA replication, mitosis and transcriptional regulation. The reported involvement of Cdon, Celsr1, Dbi, Eomes, Neurog2, Notch1, Pcnt, Sox3, Tead2, and Tgif2 in neural development or diseases resulting from the disruption of neurogenesis validates these candidate genes. Taken together, our knowledge-based discovery method has validated the involvement of many genes already known to be involved in neocortical development and extended the potential number of genes by 100's, many of which are involved in functions related to cell proliferation but others of which are potential candidates for involvement in the regulation of neocortical development.
The activity of adult stem cells is regulated by signals emanating from the surrounding tissue. Many niche signals have been identified, but it is unclear how they influence the choice of stem cells to remain quiescent or divide. Here we show that when stem cells of the adult hippocampus receive activating signals, they first induce the expression of the transcription factor Ascl1 and only subsequently exit quiescence. Moreover, lowering Ascl1 expression reduces the proliferation rate of hippocampal stem cells, and inactivating Ascl1 blocks quiescence exit completely, rendering them unresponsive to activating stimuli. Ascl1 promotes the proliferation of hippocampal stem cells by directly regulating the expression of cell-cycle regulatory genes. Ascl1 is similarly required for stem cell activation in the adult subventricular zone. Our results support a model whereby Ascl1 integrates inputs from both stimulatory and inhibitory signals and converts them into a transcriptional program activating adult neural stem cells.
During HIV infection, increased CD57 expression among CD8(+) T cells has been associated with immune senescence and defective immune responses. Interestingly, CD57-expressing CD8(+) T cells exhibit a dual profile, being simultaneously highly cytotoxic (terminally differentiated effectors) and poorly proliferative (replicative senescent). Recent publications point toward a positive role of CD57-expressing CD8(+) T cell subsets, presumably due to their high cytolytic activity. We further investigated the phenotype of CD57-expressing CD8(+) T cells in healthy donors and during HIV infection combining CD57 expression to Eomesodermin (EOMES), a T box transcription factor which determines, coordinately with T-bet, effector and memory CD8(+) T cell differentiation. We defined in healthy donors two functionally distinct CD57-expressing CD8(+) T cell subsets exhibiting different levels of EOMES expression: EOMES(hi) CD57(+) and EOMES(int) CD57(+) CD8(+) T cells. EOMES(hi) CD57(+) cells exhibited low cytotoxic activity but preserved proliferative capacity and interleukin 7 (IL-7) receptor expression, whereas EOMES(int) CD57(+) cells exhibited obvious cytotoxic functions and a more terminally differentiated phenotype. We next performed a similar analysis in different contexts of HIV infection: primary infected patients, long-term viremic patients, aviremic patients treated with antiretroviral therapy, and HIV controllers; we demonstrated a higher percentage of CD57-expressing cells in all HIV-infected patients regardless of virological status. When heterogeneity in EOMES expression among CD57 cells was taken into account, we detected significantly higher proportions of EOMES(hi) CD57(+) cells among HIV-specific and nonspecific CD8(+) T cells from HIV controllers than in aviremic antiretroviral-treated patients and viremic patients. Importantly, such a peculiar non-terminally differentiated EOMES(hi) CD57(+) phenotypic profile was associated with viral control. Importance: This study demonstrates that functional heterogeneity exists among CD57-expressing CD8 T cells, which include both terminally differentiated, highly cytotoxic EOMES(int) CD57(+) CD8(+) T cells and less differentiated EOMES(hi) CD57(+) CD8 T cells, which do not exhibit immediate cytotoxic functions but present high proliferative capacity. Interestingly, HIV controllers present a high proportion of EOMES(hi) CD57 cells among CD57-expressing HIV-specific CD8 T cells compared to both long-term viremic and aviremic antiretroviral therapy (ART)-treated patients, suggesting a beneficial role for this cell subset in viral control.
Natural killer cells (NK cells) play a key role in cancer immunosurveillance. However, their activity is highly dependent upon their maturation stage, which in turn relates to organ distribution. Here, we discuss the role of intrinsic master transcription factors and extrinsic IL-15 signaling on NK cell-mediated immune protection against murine pulmonary metastasis.
CD8(+) T cell exhaustion represents a major hallmark of chronic HIV infection. Two key transcription factors governing CD8(+) T cell differentiation, T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes), have previously been shown in mice to differentially regulate T cell exhaustion in part through direct modulation of PD-1. Here, we examined the relationship between these transcription factors and the expression of several inhibitory receptors (PD-1, CD160, and 2B4), functional characteristics and memory differentiation of CD8(+) T cells in chronic and treated HIV infection. The expression of PD-1, CD160, and 2B4 on total CD8(+) T cells was elevated in chronically infected individuals and highly associated with a T-bet(dim)Eomes(hi) expressional profile. Interestingly, both resting and activated HIV-specific CD8(+) T cells in chronic infection were almost exclusively T-bet(dim)Eomes(hi) cells, while CMV-specific CD8(+) T cells displayed a balanced expression pattern of T-bet and Eomes. The T-bet(dim)Eomes(hi) virus-specific CD8(+) T cells did not show features of terminal differentiation, but rather a transitional memory phenotype with poor polyfunctional (effector) characteristics. The transitional and exhausted phenotype of HIV-specific CD8(+) T cells was longitudinally related to persistent Eomes expression after antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation. Strikingly, these characteristics remained stable up to 10 years after ART initiation. This study supports the concept that poor human viral-specific CD8(+) T cell functionality is due to an inverse expression balance between T-bet and Eomes, which is not reversed despite long-term viral control through ART. These results aid to explain the inability of HIV-specific CD8(+) T cells to control the viral replication post-ART cessation.
Wnt/beta-catenin signaling plays an important role in neural development, instructing both progenitor cell division and differentiation. During early corticogenesis, Wnt7b is expressed in a restricted expression pattern in the ventricular zone progenitor cells. However, its influence on progenitor cell behavior has not been fully studied. We report that transgenic overexpression of Wnt7b in neural progenitor cells impairs neuronal differentiation and the development of forebrain structures at embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5). This was accompanied by a decreased expression of T-domain transcription factors Tbr1 and Tbr2, in both progenitor cells and post-mitotic neurons. However, proliferation, apoptosis and the overall proportion of pax6(+) neural progenitor cells were similar to wild-type litter mates. These results suggest that Wnt signaling may affect early neural progenitor differentiation by regulating the expression of pro-neural transcription factors.
Accumulating evidence indicates that human natural killer (NK) cells develop in secondary lymphoid tissue (SLT) through a so-called "stage 3" developmental intermediate minimally characterized by a CD34(-)CD117(+)CD94(-) immunophenotype that lacks mature NK cell function. This stage 3 population is heterogeneous, potentially composed of functionally distinct innate lymphoid cell (ILC) types that include interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R1)-positive, IL-22-producing ILC3s. Whether human ILC3s are developmentally related to NK cells is a subject of ongoing investigation. Here, we show that antagonism of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) or silencing of AHR gene expression promotes the differentiation of tonsillar IL-22-producing IL-1R1(hi) human ILC3s to CD56(bright)CD94(+) interferon (IFN)-γ-producing cytolytic mature NK cells expressing eomesodermin (EOMES) and T-Box Protein 21 (TBX21 or TBET). Hence, we demonstrate the lineage plasticity of human ILCs by identifying AHR as a transcription factor that prevents IL-1R1(hi) ILC3s from differentiating into NK cells.
T cell development in the thymus produces multiple lineages of cells, including innate T cells such as γδ TCR(+) cells, invariant NKT cells, mucosal-associated invariant T cells, and H2-M3-specific cells. Although innate cells are generally a minor subset of thymocytes, in several strains of mice harboring mutations in T cell signaling proteins or transcriptional regulators, conventional CD8(+) T cells develop as innate cells with characteristics of memory T cells. Thus, in Itk-deficient mice, mature CD4(-)CD8(+) (CD8 single-positive [SP]) thymocytes express high levels of the transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes) and are dependent on IL-4 being produced in the thymic environment by a poorly characterized subset of CD4(+) thymocytes expressing the transcriptional regulator promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger. In this study, we show that a sizeable proportion of mature CD4(+)CD8(-) (CD4SP) thymocytes in itk(-/-) mice also develop as innate Eomes-expressing T cells. These cells are dependent on MHC class II and IL-4 signaling for their development, indicating that they are conventional CD4(+) T cells that have been converted to an innate phenotype. Surprisingly, neither CD4SP nor CD8SP innate Eomes(+) thymocytes in itk(-/-) or SLP-76(Y145F) mice are dependent on γδ T cells for their development. Instead, we find that the predominant population of Eomes(+) innate itk(-/-) CD4SP thymocytes is largely absent in mice lacking CD1d-specific invariant NKT cells, with no effect on innate itk(-/-) CD8SP thymocytes. In contrast, both subsets of innate Eomes(+)itk(-/-) T cells require the presence of a novel promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger-expressing, SLAM family receptor adapter protein-dependent thymocyte population that is essential for the conversion of conventional CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells into innate T cells with a memory phenotype.
The individual contribution of different progenitor subtypes towards the mature rodent cerebral cortex is not fully understood. Intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs) are key to understanding the regulation of neuronal number during cortical development and evolution, yet their exact contribution is much debated. Intermediate progenitors in the cortical subventricular zone are defined by expression of T-box brain-2 (Tbr2). In this study we demonstrate by using the Tbr2(Cre) mouse line and state-of-the-art cell lineage labeling techniques, that IPC derived cells contribute substantial proportions 67.5% of glutamatergic but not GABAergic or astrocytic cells to all cortical layers including the earliest generated subplate zone. We also describe the laminar dispersion of clonally derived cells from IPCs using a recently described clonal analysis tool (CLoNe) and show that pair-generated cells in different layers cluster closer (142.1 ± 76.8 μm) than unrelated cells (294.9 ± 105.4 μm). The clonal dispersion from individual Tbr2 positive intermediate progenitors contributes to increasing the cortical surface. Our study also describes extracortical contributions from Tbr2+ progenitors to the lateral olfactory tract and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus.
Development of animal embryos before zygotic genome activation at the midblastula transition (MBT) is essentially supported by egg-derived maternal products. Nodal proteins are crucial signals for mesoderm and endoderm induction after the MBT. It remains unclear which maternal factors activate zygotic expression of nodal genes in the ventrolateral blastodermal margin of the zebrafish blastulas. In this study, we show that loss of maternal Eomesodermin a (Eomesa), a T-box transcription factor, impairs zygotic expression of the nodal genes ndr1 and ndr2 as well as mesodermal and endodermal markers, indicating an involvement in mesendoderm induction. Maternal Eomesa is also required for timely zygotic expression of the transcription factor gene mxtx2, a regulator of nodal gene expression. Eomesa directly binds to the Eomes-binding sites in the promoter or enhancer of ndr1, ndr2, and mxtx2 to activate their transcription. Furthermore, human and mouse Nodal genes are also regulated by Eomes. Transfection of zebrafish eomesa into murine embryonic stem cells promotes mesendodermal differentiation with constant higher levels of endogenous Nodal expression, suggesting a conserved function of Eomes. Taken together, our findings reveal a conserved role of maternal T-box transcription factors in regulating nodal gene expression and mesendoderm induction in vertebrate embryos.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) have emerged as a promising candidate for inflammatory suppression and disease amelioration, especially of neuro-inflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS). Auto-reactive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells acquire pathogenic IFNγ-producing- (Type I) and IL-17A-producing- (Type 17) effector phenotypes in MS and its animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although MSC have been extensively demonstrated to suppress pathogenic effector CD4+ T cells and CD4+ T cell-mediated EAE, surprisingly few studies have addressed their modulation of effector CD8+ T cells represented in MS or their impact on CD8+ T cell-mediated EAE. We find that MSC differentially modulate CD8+ T cell development depending on effector T cell subtype. MSC drive activated low-IFNγ producers toward an enhanced high-IFNγ Tc1-like phenotype but strongly inhibit the production of IL-17A and Tc17 polarization in vitro. These observations are underscored by differential MSC modulation of T cell activation, proliferation, and signature transcription factor up-regulation. In addition, effector CD8+ T cells co-cultured with MSC exhibited increased production of IL-2, a molecule known to enhance IFNγ, yet suppress IL-17A, production. Based on these in vitro effects on CD8+ T cells, we next evaluated their impact on the severity of EAE. To better evaluate CD8+ T cells, we immunized mice with MOG37-50 , which is a CD8-targeted epitope. Our results revealed a worsening of disease, consistent with their in vitro stimulation of Tc1 cells. These findings highlight the emerging duality of MSC in immune modulation and provide implications for their future use in immune-related diseases.
Erratum in    Front Immunol. 2016;7:337.
CD8(+) T cells must detect foreign antigens and differentiate into effector cells to eliminate infections. But, when self-antigen is recognized instead, mechanisms of peripheral tolerance prevent acquisition of effector function to avoid autoimmunity. These distinct responses are influenced by inflammatory and regulatory clues from the tissue environment, but the mechanism(s) by which naive T cells interpret these signals to generate the appropriate immune response are unclear. The identification of the molecules operative in these cell-fate decisions is crucial for developing new treatment options for patients with cancer or autoimmunity, where manipulation of T cell activity is desired to alter the course of disease. With the use of an in vivo murine model to examine CD8(+) T cell responses to healthy self-tissue, we correlated self-tolerance with a failure to induce the T-box transcription factors T-bet and Eomes. However, inflammation associated with acute microbial infection induced T-bet and Eomes expression and promoted effector differentiation of self-reactive T cells under conditions that normally favor tolerance. In the context of a Listeria infection, these functional responses relied on elevated T-bet expression, independent of Eomes. Alternatively, infection with LCMV induced higher Eomes expression, which was sufficient in the absence of T-bet to promote effector cytokine production. Our results place T-box transcription factors at a molecular crossroads between CD8(+) T cell anergy and effector function upon recognition of peripheral self-antigen, and suggest that inflammation during T cell priming directs these distinct cellular responses.
Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM)-associated protein (SAP) plays an essential role in the immune system mediating the function of several members of the SLAM family (SLAMF) of receptors, whose expression is essential for T, NK, and B-cell responses. Additionally, the expression of SAP in double-positive thymocytes is mandatory for natural killer T (NKT) cells and, in mouse, for innate CD8(+) T cell development. To date, only two members of the SLAMF of receptors, Slamf1 and Slamf6, have been shown to positively cooperate during NKT cell differentiation in mouse. However, it is less clear whether other members of this family may also participate in the development of these innate T cells. Here, we show that Slamf[1 + 6](-/-) and Slamf[1 + 5 + 6](-/-) B6 mice have ~70% reduction of NKT cells compared to wild-type B6 mice. Unexpectedly, the proportion of innate CD8(+) T cells slightly increased in the Slamf[1 + 5 + 6](-/-) , but not in the Slamf[1 + 6](-/-) strain, suggesting that Slamf5 may function as a negative regulator of innate CD8(+) T cell development. Accordingly, Slamf5(-/-) B6 mice showed an exclusive expansion of innate CD8(+) T cells, but not NKT cells. Interestingly, the SAP-independent Slamf7(-/-) strain showed an expansion of both splenic innate CD8(+) T cells and thymic NKT cells. On the other hand, and similar to what was recently shown in Slamf3(-/-) BALB/c mice, the proportions of thymic promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger (PLZF(hi)) NKT cells and innate CD8(+) T cells significantly increased in the SAP-independent Slamf8(-/-) BALB/c strain. In summary, these results show that NKT and innate CD8(+) T cell development can be regulated in a SAP-dependent and -independent fashion by SLAMF receptors, in which Slamf1, Slamf6, and Slamf8 affect development of NKT cells, and that Slamf5, Slamf7, and Slamf8 affect the development of innate CD8(+) T cells.
Memory-phenotype CD8(+) T cells can arise even in the absence of overt Ag stimulation. Virtual memory (VM) CD8(+) T cells are CD8(+) T cells that develop a memory phenotype in the periphery of wild-type mice in an IL-15-dependent manner. Innate CD8(+) T cells, in contrast, are memory-phenotype CD8(+) T cells that develop in the thymus in response to elevated thymic IL-4. It is not clear whether VM cells and innate CD8(+) T cells represent two independent T cell lineages or whether they arise through similar processes. In this study, we use mice deficient in Nedd4-family interacting protein 1 to show that overproduction of IL-4 in the periphery leads to an expanded VM population. Nedd4-family interacting protein 1(-/-) CD4(+) T cells produce large amounts of IL-4 due to a defect in JunB degradation. This IL-4 induces a memory-like phenotype in peripheral CD8(+) T cells that includes elevated expression of CD44, CD122, and Eomesodermin and decreased expression of CD49d. Thus, our data show that excess peripheral IL-4 is sufficient to cause an increase in the VM population. Our results suggest that VM and innate CD8(+) T cells may be more similar than previously appreciated.
CD8+ T cells in progressing tumors frequently fail to mount an effective antitumor response often in association with the expression of inhibitory receptors, including programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) and lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (Lag3). Using a lymphoma tumor model, we demonstrate that tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells from growing tumors co-express inhibitory receptors and co-stimulatory receptors, including 4-1BB (TNFRSF9) as well as high levels of 2 transcription factors, Eomesodermin (Eomes) and T-bet (Tbx21), critical determinants of CD8+ T cell fate. Immunotherapy with an agonistic anti-4-1-BB antibody altered the ratio of Eomes to T-bet expression in tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells by increasing Eomes and decreasing T-bet expression. 4-1BB-agonist immunotherapy was also associated with downregulated expression of the inhibitory receptors PD-1 and Lag3 on tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells, a molecular phenotype associated with subsequent attenuation of tumor growth. Furthermore, 4-1BB-agonist immunotherapy failed to effect tumor progression in mice with Eomes deficient T cells. However, upon resumption of tumor growth, tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells from treated animals continued to express high levels of Eomes as well as elevated levels of the inhibitory receptors PD-1 and Lag3. Our data suggest that tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells are poised between activation and inhibition as dictated by expression of both co-stimulatory receptors and inhibitory receptors and demonstrate that T cell expression of Eomes is necessary, but not sufficient, for efficacious 4-1BB-agonist-mediated immunotherapy.
Ligation of the TNF receptor family costimulatory molecule OX40 (CD134) with an agonist anti-OX40 monoclonal antibody (mAb) enhances antitumor immunity by augmenting T-cell differentiation as well as turning off the suppressive activity of the FoxP3(+)CD4(+) regulatory T cells (Treg). In addition, antibody-mediated blockade of the checkpoint inhibitor CTLA-4 releases the "brakes" on T cells to augment tumor immunotherapy. However, monotherapy with these agents has limited therapeutic benefit particularly against poorly immunogenic murine tumors. Therefore, we examined whether the administration of agonist anti-OX40 therapy in the presence of CTLA-4 blockade would enhance tumor immunotherapy. Combined anti-OX40/anti-CTLA-4 immunotherapy significantly enhanced tumor regression and the survival of tumor-bearing hosts in a CD4 and CD8 T cell-dependent manner. Mechanistic studies revealed that the combination immunotherapy directed the expansion of effector T-bet(high)/Eomes(high) granzyme B(+) CD8 T cells. Dual immunotherapy also induced distinct populations of Th1 [interleukin (IL)-2, IFN-γ], and, surprisingly, Th2 (IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13) CD4 T cells exhibiting increased T-bet and Gata-3 expression. Furthermore, IL-4 blockade inhibited the Th2 response, while maintaining the Th1 CD4 and effector CD8 T cells that enhanced tumor-free survival. These data demonstrate that refining the global T-cell response during combination immunotherapy can further enhance the therapeutic efficacy of these agents.
There are ∼20 types of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in mice, each of which has distinct molecular, morphological, and physiological characteristics. Each RGC type sends axon projections to specific brain areas that execute light-dependent behaviors. Here, we show that the T-box transcription factor Tbr2 is required for the development of several RGC types that participate in non-image-forming circuits. These types are molecularly distinct, project to non-image-forming targets, and include intrinsically photosensitive RGCs. Tbr2 mutant mice have reduced retinal projections to non-image-forming nuclei and an attenuated pupillary light reflex. These data demonstrate that Tbr2 acts to execute RGC type choice and/or survival in a set of RGCs that mediates light-induced subconscious behaviors.
A major challenge facing the development of effective cell therapies is the efficient differentiation of pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) into pure populations. Lowering oxygen tension to physiological levels can affect both the expansion and differentiation stages. However, to date, there are no studies investigating the knock-on effect of culturing PSCs under low oxygen conditions on subsequent lineage commitment at ambient oxygen levels. PSCs were passaged three times at 2% O2 before allowing cells to spontaneously differentiate as embryoid bodies (EBs) in high oxygen (20% O2) conditions. Maintenance of mouse PSCs in low oxygen was associated with a significant increase in the expression of early differentiation markers FGF5 and Eomes, while conversely we observed decreased expression of these genes in human PSCs. Low oxygen preconditioning primed mouse PSCs for their subsequent differentiation into mesodermal and endodermal lineages, as confirmed by increased gene expression of Eomes, Goosecoid, Brachyury, AFP, Sox17, FoxA2, and protein expression of Brachyury, Eomes, Sox17, FoxA2, relative to high oxygen cultures. The effects extended to the subsequent formation of more mature mesodermal lineages. We observed significant upregulation of cardiomyocyte marker Nkx2.5, and critically a decrease in the number of contaminant pluripotent cells after 12 days using a directed cardiomyocyte protocol. However, the impact of low oxygen preconditioning was to prime human cells for ectodermal lineage commitment during subsequent EB differentiation, with significant upregulation of Nestin and β3-tubulin. Our research demonstrates the importance of oxygen tension control during cell maintenance on the subsequent differentiation of both mouse and human PSCs, and highlights the differential effects.
The transcription factor E4bp4 (Nfil3) is essential for natural killer (NK) cell production. Here, we show that E4bp4 is required at the NK lineage commitment point when NK progenitors develop from common lymphoid progenitors (CLPs) and that E4bp4 must be expressed at the CLP stage for differentiation toward the NK lineage to occur. To elucidate the mechanism by which E4bp4 promotes NK development, we identified a central core of transcription factors that can rescue NK production from E4bp4(-/-) progenitors, suggesting that they act downstream of E4bp4. Among these were Eomes and Id2, which are expressed later in development than E4bp4. E4bp4 binds directly to the regulatory regions of both Eomes and Id2, promoting their transcription. We propose that E4bp4 is required for commitment to the NK lineage and promotes NK development by directly regulating the expression of the downstream transcription factors Eomes and Id2.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) could provide a major window into human developmental biology, because the differentiation methods from hESCs mimic human embryogenesis. We previously reported that the overexpression of hematopoietically expressed homeobox (HHEX) in the hESC-derived definitive endoderm (DE) cells markedly promotes hepatic specification. However, it remains unclear how HHEX functions in this process. To reveal the molecular mechanisms of hepatic specification by HHEX, we tried to identify the genes directly targeted by HHEX. We found that HHEX knockdown considerably enhanced the expression level of eomesodermin (EOMES). In addition, HHEX bound to the HHEX response element located in the first intron of EOMES. Loss-of-function assays of EOMES showed that the gene expression levels of hepatoblast markers were significantly upregulated, suggesting that EOMES has a negative role in hepatic specification from the DE cells. Furthermore, EOMES exerts its effects downstream of HHEX in hepatic specification from the DE cells. In conclusion, the present results suggest that HHEX promotes hepatic specification by repressing EOMES expression.
Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) has been reported to play a role in dendritic cell activation and B-cell differentiation after immunization. Its presence and role in T cells, however, has not been explored. In the present study, we determined the expression of TG2 on mouse T cells, and evaluated its role by comparing the behaviours of wild-type and TG2(-/-) T cells after activation. In our results, naive T cells minimally expressed TG2, expression of which was increased after activation. T-cell proliferation, expression of activation markers such as CD69 and CD25, and secretions of interleukin-2 and interferon-γ were suppressed in the absence of TG2, presumably due, in part, to diminished nuclear factor-κB activation. These effects on T cells seemed to be reflected in the in vivo immune response, the contact hypersensitivity reaction elicited by 2,4-dinitro-1-fluorobenzene, with lowered peak responses in the TG2(-/-) mice. When splenic T cells from mice immunized with tumour lysate-loaded wild-type dendritic cells were re-challenged ex vivo with the same antigen, the profile of surface markers including CD44, CD62L, and CD127 strongly indicated lesser generation of memory CD8(+) T cells in TG2(-/-) mice. In the TG2(-/-)  CD8(+) T cells, moreover, Eomes expression was markedly decreased. These results indicate possible roles of TG2 in CD8(+) T-cell activation and CD8(+) memory T-cell generation.
The CB1 cannabinoid receptor regulates cortical progenitor proliferation during embryonic development, but the molecular mechanism of this action remains unknown. Here, we report that CB1-deficient mouse embryos show premature cell cycle exit, decreased Pax6- and Tbr2-positive cell number, and reduced mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) activation in the ventricular and subventricular cortical zones. Pharmacological stimulation of the CB1 receptor in cortical slices and progenitor cell cultures activated the mTORC1 pathway and increased the number of Pax6- and Tbr2-expressing cells. Likewise, acute CB1 knockdown in utero reduced mTORC1 activation and cannabinoid-induced Tbr2-positive cell generation. Luciferase reporter and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that the CB1 receptor drives Tbr2 expression downstream of Pax6 induction in an mTORC1-dependent manner. Altogether, our results demonstrate that the CB1 receptor tunes dorsal telencephalic progenitor proliferation by sustaining the transcriptional activity of the Pax6-Tbr2 axis via the mTORC1 pathway, and suggest that alterations of CB1 receptor signaling, by producing the missexpression of progenitor identity determinants may contribute to neurodevelopmental alterations.
INTRODUCTION: Natalizumab blocks α4-integrins and is a prototypic agent for a series of anti-inflammatory drugs that impair trafficking of immune cells into the CNS. However, modulation of the access of immune cells to the CNS is associated with impaired immune surveillance and detrimental viral infections of the CNS. Here, we explored the potency of cellular immune responses within the CNS to protect against viral encephalitis in mice with T cell conditional disruption of VLA-4 integrin (α4β1) expression.RESULTS: While VLA-4 expression in virus specific Th1 cells is non-redundant for their ability to access the CNS, α4-integrin deficient Th17 cells enter the CNS compartment and generate an inflammatory milieu upon intrathecal vaccinia virus (VV) infection. However, in contrast to Th1 cells that can adopt direct cytotoxic properties, Th17 cells fail to clear the virus due to insufficient Eomes induced perforin-1 expression.CONCLUSION: The quality of the intrathecal cellular antiviral response under conditions of impaired VLA-4 function jeopardizes host protection. Our functional in vivo data extend our mechanistic understanding of anti-viral immunity in the CNS and help to estimate the risk potential of upcoming therapeutic agents that target the trafficking of immune cells into distinct anatomical compartments.
The trophoblast (TR) is the first to differentiate during mammalian embryogenesis and play a pivotal role in the development of the placenta. We used a dual inhibitor system (PD0325901 and CHIR99021) with mixed feeders to successfully obtain bovine trophoblast stem-like (bTS) cells, which were similar in phenotype to mouse trophoblast stem cells (TSCs). The bTS cells that were generated using this system continually proliferated, displayed a normal diploid karyotype, and had no signs of altered morphology or differentiation even after 150 passages. These cells exhibited alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity and expressed pluripotency markers, such as OCT4, NANOG, SOX2, SSEA-1, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60, and TRA-1-81, and TR lineage markers such as CDX2, as determined by both immunofluorescence and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Additionally, these cells generated dome-like structures, formed teratomas when injected into NOD-SCID mice, and differentiated into placenta TR cells in vitro. The microarray analysis of bTS cells showed high expression levels of many TR markers, such as TEAD4, EOMES, GATA3, ETS2, TFAP2A, ELF5, SMARCA4 (BRG1), CDH3, MASH2, HSD17B1, CYP11A1, PPARG, ID2, GCM1, HAND1, TDK, PAG, IFN-τ, and THAP11. The expression of many pluripotency markers, such as OCT4, SOX2, NANOG, and GDF3, was lower in bTS cells compared with in vitro-produced blastocysts; however, compared with bovine fetal fibroblasts, the expression of these pluripotency markers was elevated in bTS cells. The DNA methylation status of the promoter regions of OCT4, NANOG, and SOX2 was investigated, which were significantly higher in bTS cells (OCT4 23.90%, NANOG 74.40%, and SOX2 8.50%) compared with blastocysts (OCT4 8.90%, NANOG 34.4%, and SOX2 3.80%). In contrast, two promoter regions of CDX2 were hypomethylated in bTS cells (13.80% and 3.90%) compared with blastocysts (18.80% and 9.10%). The TSC lines that were established in this study may be used either for basic research that is focused on peri-implantation and placenta development or as donor cells for transgenic animal production.
Heterologous prime-boost vaccination using plasmid DNA followed by replication-defective adenovirus vector generates a large number of specific CD8⁺ T effector memory (TEM) cells that provide long-term immunity against a variety of pathogens. In the present study, we initially characterized the frequency, phenotype, and function of these T cells in vaccinated mice that were subjected to infectious challenge with the human protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. We observed that the frequency of the specific CD8⁺ T cells in the spleens of the vaccinated mice increased after challenge. Specific TEM cells differentiated into cells with a KLRG1(High) CD27(Low) CD43(Low) CD183(Low)T-bet(High) Eomes(Low) phenotype and capable to produce simultaneously the antiparasitic mediators IFNγ and TNF. Using the gzmBCreERT2/ROSA26EYFP transgenic mouse line, in which the cells that express Granzyme B after immunization, are indelibly labeled with enhanced yellow fluorescent protein, we confirmed that CD8⁺ T cells present after challenge were indeed TEM cells that had been induced by vaccination. Subsequently, we observed that the in vivo increase in the frequency of the specific CD8⁺ T cells was not because of an anamnestic immune response. Most importantly, after challenge, the increase in the frequency of specific cells and the protective immunity they mediate were insensitive to treatment with the cytostatic toxic agent hydroxyurea. We have previously described that the administration of the drug FTY720, which reduces lymphocyte recirculation, severely impairs protective immunity, and our evidence supports the model that when large amounts of antigen-experienced CD8⁺ TEM cells are present after heterologous prime-boost vaccination, differentiation, and recirculation, rather than proliferation, are key for the resultant protective immunity.
BACKGROUND: Development of the olfactory bulb (OB) is a complex process that requires contributions from several progenitor cell niches to generate neuronal diversity. Previous studies showed that Tbr2 is expressed during the generation of glutamatergic OB neurons in rodents. However, relatively little is known about the role of Tbr2 in the developing OB or in the subventricular zone-rostral migratory stream (SVZ-RMS) germinal niche that gives rise to many OB neurons.RESULTS: Here, we use conditional gene ablation strategies to knockout Tbr2 during embryonic mouse olfactory bulb morphogenesis, as well as during perinatal and adult neurogenesis from the SVZ-RMS niche, and describe the resulting phenotypes. We find that Tbr2 is important for the generation of mitral cells in the OB, and that the olfactory bulbs themselves are hypoplastic and disorganized in Tbr2 mutant mice. Furthermore, we show that the SVZ-RMS niche is expanded and disordered following loss of Tbr2, which leads to ectopic accumulation of neuroblasts in the RMS. Lastly, we show that adult glutamatergic neurogenesis from the SVZ is impaired by loss of Tbr2.CONCLUSIONS: Tbr2 is essential for proper morphogenesis of the OB and SVZ-RMS, and is important for the generation of multiple lineages of glutamatergic olfactory bulb neurons.
NK cells contribute to antitumor and antiviral immunosurveillance. Their development in the bone marrow (BM) requires the transcription factor E4BP4/NFIL3, but requirements in other organs are less well defined. In this study, we show that CD3(-)NK1.1(+)NKp46(+)CD122(+) NK cells of immature phenotype and expressing low eomesodermin levels are found in thymus, spleen, and liver of E4BP4-deficient mice, whereas numbers of mature, eomesodermin(high) conventional NK cells are drastically reduced. E4BP4-deficient CD44(+)CD25(-) double-negative 1 thymocytes efficiently develop in vitro into NK cells with kinetics, phenotype, and functionality similar to wild-type controls, whereas no NK cells develop from E4BP4-deficient BM precursors. In E4BP4/Rag-1 double-deficient (DKO) mice, NK cells resembling those in Rag-1-deficient controls are found in similar numbers in the thymus and liver. However, NK precursors are reduced in DKO BM, and no NK cells develop from DKO BM progenitors in vitro. DKO thymocyte precursors readily develop into NK cells, but DKO BM transfers into nude recipients and NK cells in E4BP4/Rag-1/IL-7 triple-KO mice indicated thymus-independent NK cell development. In the presence of T cells or E4BP4-sufficient NK cells, DKO NK cells have a selective disadvantage, and thymic and hepatic DKO NK cells show reduced survival when adoptively transferred into lymphopenic hosts. This correlates with higher apoptosis rates and lower responsiveness to IL-15 in vitro. In conclusion, we demonstrate E4BP4-independent development of NK cells of immature phenotype, reduced fitness, short t1/2, and potential extramedullary origin. Our data identify E4BP4-independent NK cell developmental pathways and a role for E4BP4 in NK cell homeostasis.
OBJECTIVE: A highly polygenic aetiology and high degree of allele-sharing between ancestries have been well elucidated in genetic studies of rheumatoid arthritis. Recently, the high-density genotyping array Immunochip for immune disease loci identified 14 new rheumatoid arthritis risk loci among individuals of European ancestry. Here, we aimed to identify new rheumatoid arthritis risk loci using Korean-specific Immunochip data.METHODS: We analysed Korean rheumatoid arthritis case-control samples using the Immunochip and genome-wide association studies (GWAS) array to search for new risk alleles of rheumatoid arthritis with anticitrullinated peptide antibodies. To increase power, we performed a meta-analysis of Korean data with previously published European Immunochip and GWAS data for a total sample size of 9299 Korean and 45,790 European case-control samples.RESULTS: We identified eight new rheumatoid arthritis susceptibility loci (TNFSF4, LBH, EOMES, ETS1-FLI1, COG6, RAD51B, UBASH3A and SYNGR1) that passed a genome-wide significance threshold (p<5×10(-8)), with evidence for three independent risk alleles at 1q25/TNFSF4. The risk alleles from the seven new loci except for the TNFSF4 locus (monomorphic in Koreans), together with risk alleles from previously established RA risk loci, exhibited a high correlation of effect sizes between ancestries. Further, we refined the number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that represent potentially causal variants through a trans-ethnic comparison of densely genotyped SNPs.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the advantage of dense-mapping and trans-ancestral analysis for identification of potentially causal SNPs. In addition, our findings support the importance of T cells in the pathogenesis and the fact of frequent overlap of risk loci among diverse autoimmune diseases.
NK cells can be grouped into distinct subsets that are localized to different organs and exhibit a different capacity to secrete cytokines and mediate cytotoxicity. Despite these hallmarks that reflect tissue-specific specialization in NK cells, little is known about the factors that control the development of these distinct subsets. The basic leucine zipper transcription factor Nfil3 (E4bp4) is essential for bone marrow-derived NK cell development, but it is not clear whether Nfil3 is equally important for all NK cell subsets or how it induces NK lineage commitment. In this article, we show that Nfil3 is required for the formation of Eomes-expressing NK cells, including conventional medullary and thymic NK cells, whereas TRAIL(+) Eomes(-) NK cells develop independently of Nfil3. Loss of Nfil3 during the development of bone marrow-derived NK cells resulted in reduced expression of Eomes and, conversely, restoration of Eomes expression in Nfil3(-/-) progenitors rescued NK cell development and maturation. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that Nfil3 drives the formation of mature NK cells by inducing Eomes expression and reveal the differential requirements of NK cell subsets for Nfil3.
Prolonged antiretroviral therapy (ART) with effective HIV suppression and reconstitution of CD4 T cells, fails to restore CD8 T cell lytic effector function that is needed to eradicate the viral reservoir. Better understanding of the phenotype and function of circulating CD8 cells in HIV patients will contribute to new targeted therapies directed at increasing CD8 T cell lytic effector function and destruction of the viral reservoir. We show that CD8 T cells from ART treated patients had sharply reduced expression of CD56 (neural cell adhesion molecule-1), a marker associated with cytolytic function whereas elite patients who control HIV in the absence of ART had CD56+ CD8 T cell levels similar to uninfected controls. The CD56+ CD8 T cells had higher perforin upregulation as well as degranulation following stimulation with HIV gag peptides compared with CD56 negative CD8 T cells. Elite patients had the highest frequencies of perforin producing CD56+ CD8 T cells among all HIV+ groups. In patients receiving ART we noted high levels of the exhaustion marker TIM-3 on CD56+ CD8 T cells, implying that defective effector function was related to immune exhaustion. CD56+ CD8 T cells from elite or treated HIV patients responded to PMA plus ionomycin stimulation, and expressed transcription factors T-bet and EOMES at levels similar to uninfected controls. Consequently, the lytic effector defect in chronic HIV disease is due to immune exhaustion and quantitative loss of CD56+ CD8 T cells and this defect is not repaired in patients where viremia is suppressed and CD4 T cells are recovered after ART. Reconstituting the cytotoxic CD56+ subset of CD8+ T cells through new interventions might improve the lytic effector capacity and contribute to reducing the viral reservoir. Our initial studies indicate that IL-15 treatment partly reverses the CD56 defect, implying that myeloid cell defects could be targeted for immune therapy during chronic HIV disease.
Trail(+)DX5(-)Eomes(-) natural killer (NK) cells arise in the mouse fetal liver and persist in the adult liver. Their relationships with Trail(-)DX5(+) NK cells remain controversial. We generated a novel Eomes-GFP reporter murine model to address this question. We found that Eomes(-) NK cells are not precursors of classical Eomes(+) NK cells but rather constitute a distinct lineage of innate lymphoid cells. Eomes(-) NK cells are strictly dependent on both T-bet and IL-15, similarly to NKT cells. We observed that, in the liver, expression of T-bet in progenitors represses Eomes expression and the development of Eomes(+) NK cells. Reciprocally, the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment restricts T-bet expression in developing NK cells. Ectopic expression of T-bet forces the development of Eomes(-) NK cells, demonstrating that repression of T-bet is essential for the development of Eomes(+) NK cells. Gene profile analyses show that Eomes(-) NK cells share part of their transcriptional program with NKT cells, including genes involved in liver homing and NK cell receptors. Moreover, Eomes(-) NK cells produce a broad range of cytokines, including IL-2 and TNF in vitro and in vivo, during immune responses against vaccinia virus. Thus, mutually exclusive expression of T-bet and Eomes drives the development of different NK cell lineages with complementary functions.
Erratum in    Development. 2014 Mar 15;141(6):1419.
We have identified a marked over-representation of transcription factors controlling differentiation of T, B, myeloid and NK cells among the 110 MS genes now known to be associated with multiple sclerosis (MS). To test if the expression of these genes might define molecular subtypes of MS, we interrogated their expression in blood in three independent cohorts of untreated MS (from Sydney and Adelaide) or clinically isolated syndrome (CIS, from San Francisco) patients. Expression of the transcription factors (TF) controlling T and NK cell differentiation, EOMES, TBX21 and other TFs was significantly lower in MS/CIS compared to healthy controls in all three cohorts. Expression was tightly correlated between these TFs, with other T/NK cell TFs, and to another downregulated gene, CCL5. Expression was stable over time, but did not predict disease phenotype. Optimal response to therapy might be indicated by normalization of expression of these genes in blood.
Cytotoxicity and IFN-γ production by human γδ T cells underlie their potent antitumor functions. However, it remains unclear where and how human γδ T cells acquire these key effector properties. Given the recent disclosure of a major contribution of the thymus to murine γδ T cell functional differentiation, in this study we have analyzed a series of human pediatric thymuses. We found that ex vivo-isolated γδ thymocytes produced negligible IFN-γ and lacked cytolytic activity against leukemia cells. However, these properties were selectively acquired upon stimulation with IL-2 or IL-15, but not IL-4 or IL-7. Unexpectedly, TCR activation was dispensable for these stages of functional differentiation. The effects of IL-2/IL-15 depended on MAPK/ERK signaling and induced de novo expression of the transcription factors T-bet and eomesodermin, as well as the cytolytic enzyme perforin, required for the cytotoxic type 1 program. These findings have implications for the manipulation of γδ T cells in cancer immunotherapy.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are mesoderm-derived cells that are considered a good source of somatic cells for treatment of many degenerative diseases. Previous studies have reported the differentiation of mesodermal MSCs into endodermal and ectodermal cell types beyond their embryonic lineages, including hepatocytes and neurons. However, the molecular pathways responsible for the direct or indirect cell type conversion and the functional ability of the differentiated cells remain unclear and need further research. In the present study, we demonstrated that valproic acid (VPA), which is a histone deacetylase inhibitor, induced an increase in the expression of endodermal genes including CXCR4, SOX17, FOXA1, FOXA2, GSC, c-MET, EOMES, and HNF-1β in human umbilical cord derived MSCs (hUCMSCs). In addition, we found that VPA is able to increase these endodermal genes in hUCMSCs by activating signal transduction of AKT and ERK. VPA pretreatment increased hepatic differentiation at the expense of adipogenic differentiation. The effects of VPA on modulating hUCMSCs fate were diminished by blocking AKT and ERK activation using specific signaling inhibitors. Together, our results suggest that VPA contributes to the lineage conversion of hUCMSCs to hepatic cell fate by upregulating the expression of endodermal genes through AKT and ERK activation.
The outcome of umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT) is compromised by low hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) doses leading to prolonged time to engraftment, delayed immunological reconstitution and late memory T-cell skewing. Exposure of UCB to dimethyl-prostaglandin E2 (dmPGE2) increases HSC in vivo. We determined that exposure of UCB T lymphocytes to dmPGE2 modified Wnt signaling resulting in T cell factor (TCF)-mediated transcription. Wnt signaling upregulated interleukin (IL)-7R and IL-2Rβ, resulting in enhanced survival mediated by the homeostatic cytokines IL-7 and IL-15. dmPGE2 also induced components of the Wnt pathway and Wnt receptors, thereby priming UCB T cells to receive signals via Wnt ligands in vivo. We observed that the Wnt transcription factor TCF7 and its target EOMES were elevated in the T cells of patients who received PGE2-treated UCBs. Consistent with the role of Wnt/β-catenin signaling to induce and maintain naive, memory precursors and long-lived central memory CD8(+) cells, these patients also had increased fractions of CD8(+)CD45RO(-)CD62L(+) plus CD8(+)CD45RO(+)CD62L(+) subsets encompassing these T-cell populations. These effects of the PGE2/Wnt/β-catenin axis may have significant implications for harnessing immunity in the context of UCBT, where impaired immune reconstitution is associated with late memory T-cell skewing.
Ligation of GITR (glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-related gene, or TNFRSF18) by agonist antibody has recently entered into early phase clinical trials for the treatment of advanced malignancies. Although the ability of GITR modulation to induce tumor regression is well-documented in preclinical studies, the underlying mechanisms of action, particularly its effects on CD4(+)foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Treg), have not been fully elucidated. We have previously demonstrated that GITR ligation in vivo by agonist antibody DTA-1 causes a >50% reduction of intra-tumor Treg with down modulation of Foxp3 expression. Here we show that the loss of Foxp3 is tumor-dependent. Adoptively-transferred Foxp3(+)Treg from tumor-bearing animals lose Foxp3 expression in the host when treated with DTA-1, whereas Treg from naïve mice maintain Foxp3 expression. GITR ligation also alters the expression of various transcription factors and cytokines important for Treg function. Complete Foxp3 loss in intra-tumor Treg correlates with a dramatic decrease in Helios expression and is associated with the upregulation of transcription factors T-Bet and Eomes. Changes in Helios correspond with a reduction in IL-10 and an increase in IFNγ expression in DTA-1-treated Treg. Together, these data show that GITR agonist antibody alters Treg lineage stability inducing an inflammatory effector T cell phenotype. The resultant loss of lineage stability causes Treg to lose their intra-tumor immune suppressive function, making the tumor susceptible to killing by tumor-specific effector CD8(+) T cells.
We studied the developmental and functional mechanisms behind NK cell-mediated antitumor responses against metastatic colorectal carcinoma (CRC) in mice. In particular, we focused on investigating the significance of T-box transcription factors and the immunotherapeutic relevance of IL-15 in the development and function of tumor-reactive NK cells. Pulmonary CRC metastases were experimentally seeded via an adoptive i.v. transfer of luciferase-expressing CT26 CRC cells that form viewable masses via an in vivo imaging device; genetically deficient mice were used to dissect the antitumor effects of developmentally different NK cell subsets. IL-15 precomplexed to IL-15 receptor-α was used in immunotherapy experiments. We found that mice deficient for the T-box transcription factor T-bet lack terminally differentiated antitumor CD27(low)KLRG1(+) NK cells, leading to a terminal course of rapid-onset pulmonary CRC metastases. The importance of this NK cell subset for effective antitumor immunity was shown by adoptively transferring purified CD27(low)KLRG1(+) NK cells into T-bet-deficient mice and, thereby, restoring immunity against lung metastasis formation. Importantly, immunity to metastasis formation could also be restored in T-bet-deficient recipients by treating mice with IL-15 precomplexed to IL-15 receptor-α, which induced the development of eomesodermin(+)KLRG1(+) NK cells from existing NK cell populations. Thus, contingent upon their T-bet-dependent development and activation status, NK cells can control metastatic CRC in mice, which is highly relevant for the development of immunotherapeutic approaches in the clinic.
CD4(+) T cells provide help to enhance and sustain cytotoxic CD8(+) T cell responses. A direct lytic role for this cell population in mouse models further supports the use of tumor-reactive CD4(+) T cells for cancer immunotherapy. CTLA-4 blockade has been shown to expand antigen-specific cytotoxic CD4(+) T cells in mouse models. We took advantage of spontaneous immunity to the NY-ESO-1 cancer-testis antigen to investigate quantitative and qualitative changes in antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell responses after ipilimumab (anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody) treatment in advanced melanoma patients. Four NY-ESO-1 seropositive melanoma patients were chosen upon the availability of suitable blood specimens for characterizing the functions of NY-ESO-1 antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell response by enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT), intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) and cytotoxicity assays. Multiple NY-ESO-1 antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell responses with Th1 dominance were induced or enhanced after ipilimumab treatment in peripheral blood in all four patients. NY-ESO-1 antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell lines established from all 4 patients after ipilimumab treatment recognized naturally processed NY-ESO-1 protein in antigen-presenting cells, expressed master transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) and secreted perforin and Granzyme B. Finally, we demonstrated that these NY-ESO-1 antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell lines directly lysed autologous melanoma cell lines expressing NY-ESO-1 in an MHC class II restricted manner. Our results show that antigen specific cytotoxic CD4(+) T cell responses are induced after ipilimumab therapy in human cancer patients. Ipilimumab may induce the expression of lytic granules on antigen specific cytotoxic CD4(+) T cells via Eomes, revealing a novel consequence of immunologic checkpoint blockade.
XBP1 is a critical transcriptional activator of the unfolded protein response (UPR), which increases tumor cell survival under prolonged endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and hypoxic conditions.This study was designed to evaluate the immunogenicity of heteroclitic XBP1 unspliced (US)184-192 (YISPWILAV) and heteroclictic XBP1 spliced (SP)367-375 (YLFPQLISV) HLA-A2 peptides, and to characterize the specific activities of XBP1 peptides-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (XBP1-CTL) against breast cancer, colon cancer, and pancreatic cancer cells.The XBP1-CTL had upregulated expression of critical T cell markers and displayed HLA-A2-restricted and antigen-specific activities against breast cancer, colon cancer and pancreatic cancer cells. XBP1-CTL were enriched withCD45RO+ memory CTL, which showed high expression of critical T cell markers (CD28, ICOS, CD69, CD40L), cell proliferation and antitumor activities as compared to CD45RO- non-memory CTL. The effector memory (EM: CD45RO+CCR7-) subset had the highest level of cell proliferation while the central memory (CM: CD45RO+CCR7+) subset demonstrated enhanced functional activities (CD107a degranulation, IFNγ/IL-2 production) upon recognition of the respective tumor cells. Furthermore, both the EM and CM XBP1-CTL subsets expressed high levels of Th1 transcription regulators Tbet and Eomes. The highest frequencies of IFNγ or granzyme B producing cells were detected within CM XBP1-CTL subset that were either Tbet+ or Eomes+ in responding to the tumor cells.These results demonstrate the immunotherapeutic potential of a cocktail of immunogenic HLA-A2 specific heteroclitic XBP1 US184-192 and heteroclictic XBP1 SP367-375 peptides to induce CD3+CD8+ CTL enriched for CM and EM cells with specific antitumor activities against a variety of solid tumors.
The role of CD4(+) T cells in the control of infectious pathogens is highly complex with a myriad of functions but how these T cells acquire differential functional potentiality remains poorly defined. Here we show that human cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific CD4(+) T cells directed towards different viral antigens expressed predominantly TNF-α alone or TNF-α and IFN-γ. TNF-α(+) and IFN-γ(+) CD4(+) T cells expressed significantly higher levels of T-box transcription factors T-bet with graded loss of Eomesodermin (Eomes) expression (T-bet(Hi)Eomes(Hi/Lo)) when compared with TNF-α(+) CD4(+) T cells expressing lower levels of both T-bet and Eomes (T-bet(-)Eomes(-)). Furthermore, TNF-α(+) and IFN-γ(+) CD4(+) T cells expressed significantly higher levels of perforin and interleukin (IL)-2 and displayed a terminally differentiated phenotype (CCR7(-)CD27(-)CD45RA(-)CD57(+)CD62L(-)). In contrast, TNF-α(+) alone CMV-specific CD4(+) T cells were predominantly early-memory phenotype with a proportion of these cells displaying T memory stem-cell phenotype (CD95(+)CD45RA(+)CCR7(+)CD27(+)). In vitro stimulation of CMV-specific CD4(+) T cells with viral antigen in the presence of IL-12 was sufficient to dramatically change the transcriptional and functional profile of TNF-α(+) CD4(+) T cells, whereas TNF-α(+) and IFN-γ(+) CD4(+) T cells remained unaltered. These findings illustrate an intrinsic link between cytokine expression, transcriptional regulation and cellular differentiation, and their impact on functional plasticity of virus-specific CD4(+) T cells.
Comment in    Nat Neurosci. 2014 Jan;17(1):8-9.
Eomesodermin (Eomes), a T-box transcription factor, is a key molecule associated with function and differentiation of CD8(+) T cells and NK cells. Previously, two teleost Eomes genes (Eomes-a and -b), which are located on different chromosomes, were identified and shown to be expressed in zebrafish lymphocytes. For the present study, we identified these genes in rainbow trout and ginbuna crucian carp. Deduced Eomes-a and -b amino acid sequences in both fish species contain a highly conserved T-box DNA binding domain. In RT-PCR, both Eomes transcripts were readily detectable in a variety of tissues in rainbow trout and ginbuna. The high expression of Eomes-a and -b in brain and ovary suggests involvement in neurogenesis and oogenesis, respectively, while their expression in lymphoid tissues presumably is associated with immune functions. Investigation of separated lymphocyte populations from pronephros indicated that both Eomes-a and -b transcripts were few or absent in IgM(+) lymphocytes, while relatively abundant in IgM(-)/CD8α(+) and IgM(-)/CD8α(-) populations. Moreover, we sorted trout CD8α(+) lymphocytes from mucosal and non-mucosal lymphoid tissues and compared the expression profiles of Eomes-a and -b with those of other T cell-related transcription factor genes (GATA-3, T-bet and Runx3), a Th1 cytokine gene (IFN-γ) and a Th2 cytokine gene (IL-4/13A). Interestingly, the tissue distribution of Eomes-a/b, T-bet, and Runx3 versus IFN-γ transcripts did not reveal simple correlations, suggesting tissue-specific properties of CD8α(+) lymphocytes and/or multiple modes that drive IFN-γ expressions.
After antigen encounter by CD4(+) T cells, polarizing cytokines induce the expression of master regulators that control differentiation. Inactivation of the histone methyltransferase Ezh2 was found to specifically enhance T helper 1 (Th1) and Th2 cell differentiation and plasticity. Ezh2 directly bound and facilitated correct expression of Tbx21 and Gata3 in differentiating Th1 and Th2 cells, accompanied by substantial trimethylation at lysine 27 of histone 3 (H3K27me3). In addition, Ezh2 deficiency resulted in spontaneous generation of discrete IFN-γ and Th2 cytokine-producing populations in nonpolarizing cultures, and under these conditions IFN-γ expression was largely dependent on enhanced expression of the transcription factor Eomesodermin. In vivo, loss of Ezh2 caused increased pathology in a model of allergic asthma and resulted in progressive accumulation of memory phenotype Th2 cells. This study establishes a functional link between Ezh2 and transcriptional regulation of lineage-specifying genes in terminally differentiated CD4(+) T cells.
Comment in    J Leukoc Biol. 2014 May;95(5):699-701.
Persistent viruses are kept in check by specific lymphocytes. The clonal T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire against Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), once established following primary infection, exhibits a robust stability over time. However, the determinants contributing to this long-term persistence are still poorly characterized. Taking advantage of an in vivo clinical setting where lymphocyte homeostasis was transiently perturbed, we studied EBV antigen-specific CD8 T cells before and after non-myeloablative lympho-depleting chemotherapy of melanoma patients. Despite more advanced T cell differentiation, patients T cells showed clonal composition comparable to healthy individuals, sharing a preference for TRBV20 and TRBV29 gene segment usage and several co-dominant public TCR clonotypes. Moreover, our data revealed the presence of relatively few dominant EBV antigen-specific T cell clonotypes, which mostly persisted following transient lympho-depletion (TLD) and lymphocyte recovery, likely related to absence of EBV reactivation and de novo T cell priming in these patients. Interestingly, persisting clonotypes frequently co-expressed memory/homing-associated genes (CD27, IL7R, EOMES, CD62L/SELL and CCR5) supporting the notion that they are particularly important for long-lasting CD8 T cell responses. Nevertheless, the clonal composition of EBV-specific CD8 T cells was preserved over time with the presence of the same dominant clonotypes after non-myeloablative chemotherapy. The observed clonotype persistence demonstrates high robustness of CD8 T cell homeostasis and reconstitution.
IL-2 has a pervasive influence on the immune system and dictates the survival and differentiation of multiple T cell subsets, including CD4 regulatory T cells, CD4 Th cells, and CD8 memory cells. IL-2 is synthesized by T cells during the early stages of the immune response and promotes T cell expansion and effector cell generation after initial activation via TCR signaling. Based on studies with activated T cell lines maintained in vitro, IL-2 is known to activate multiple signaling pathways that show considerable overlap with the pathways elicited via the TCR. In this paper, we have examined IL-2 signaling under TCR-independent conditions, namely by culturing purified resting naive CD8 T cells with IL-2 in the absence of Ag or APC. Under these conditions, we show in this study that IL-2 elicits a unique pattern of signaling associated with strong lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase/JAK3-dependent activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway with little or no involvement of STAT5, NF-κB, or the calcineurin/NFAT pathways. Such signaling induces marked proliferation associated with rapid and selective expression of eomesodermin but not T-bet and differentiation into long-lived central memory cells after adoptive transfer.
In addition to HLA, recent genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) have identified susceptibility loci for HL at 2p16.1, 8q24.21 and 10p14. In this study, we perform a GWAS meta-analysis with published GWAS (totalling 1,465 cases and 6,417 controls of European background), and follow-up the most significant association signals in 2,024 cases and 1,853 controls. A combined analysis identifies new HL susceptibility loci mapping to 3p24.1 (rs3806624; P=1.14 × 10(-12), odds ratio (OR)=1.26) and 6q23.3 (rs7745098; P=3.42 × 10(-9), OR=1.21). rs3806624 localizes 5' to the EOMES (eomesodermin) gene within a p53 response element affecting p53 binding. rs7745098 maps intergenic to HBS1L and MYB, a region previously associated with haematopoiesis. These findings provide further insight into the genetic and biological basis of inherited susceptibility to HL.
Erratum in    EMBO Mol Med. 2014 May;6(5):703.
Regulation of neural stem cell (NSC) fate decisions is critical during the transition from a multicellular mammalian forebrain neuroepithelium to the multilayered neocortex. Forebrain development requires coordinated vascular investment alongside NSC differentiation. Vascular endothelial growth factor A (Vegf) has proven to be a pleiotrophic gene whose multiple protein isoforms regulate a broad range of effects in neurovascular systems. To test the hypothesis that the Vegf isoforms (120, 164, and 188) are required for normal forebrain development, we analyzed the forebrain transcriptome of mice expressing specific Vegf isoforms, Vegf120, VegfF188, or a combination of Vegf120/188. Transcriptome analysis identified differentially expressed genes in embryonic day (E) 9.5 forebrain, a time point preceding dramatic neuroepithelial expansion and vascular investment in the telencephalon. Meta-analysis identified gene pathways linked to chromosome-level modifications, cell fate regulation, and neurogenesis that were altered in Vegf isoform mice. Based on these gene network shifts, we predicted that NSC populations would be affected in later stages of forebrain development. In the E11.5 telencephalon, we quantified mitotic cells [Phospho-Histone H3 (pHH3)-positive] and intermediate progenitor cells (Tbr2/Eomes-positive), observing quantitative and qualitative shifts in these populations. We observed qualitative shifts in cortical layering at P0, particularly with Ctip2-positive cells in layer V. The results identify a suite of genes and functional gene networks that can be used to further dissect the role of Vegf in regulating NSC differentiation and downstream consequences for NSC fate decisions.
Although Th1, Th2, and Th17 cells are thought to be major effector cells in adaptive alloimmune responses, their respective contribution to allograft rejection remains unclear. To precisely address this, we used mice genetically modified for the Th1 and Th17 hallmark transcription factors T-bet and RORγt, respectively, which allowed us to study the alloreactive role of each subset in an experimental transplant setting. We found that in a fully mismatched heterotopic mouse heart transplantation model, T cells deficient for T-bet (prone to Th17 differentiation) versus RORγt (prone to Th1 differentiation) rejected allografts at a more accelerated rate, indicating a predominance of Th17- over Th1-driven alloimmunity. Importantly, T cells doubly deficient for both T-bet and RORγt differentiated into alloreactive GATA-3-expressing Th2 cells, which promptly induced allograft rejection characterized by a Th2-type intragraft expression profile and eosinophilic infiltration. Mechanistically, Th2-mediated allograft rejection was contingent on IL-4, as its neutralization significantly prolonged allograft survival by reducing intragraft expression of Th2 effector molecules and eosinophilic allograft infiltration. Moreover, under IL-4 neutralizing conditions, alloreactive double-deficient T cells upregulated Eomesodermin (Eomes) and IFN-γ, but not GATA-3. Thus, in the absence of T-bet and RORγt, Eomes may salvage Th1-mediated alloimmunity that underlies IL-4 neutralization-resistant allograft rejection. We summarize that, whereas Th17 cells predictably promote allograft rejection, IL-4-producing GATA-3(+) Th2 cells, which are generally thought to protect allogeneic transplants, may actually be potent facilitators of organ transplant rejection in the absence of T-bet and RORγt. Moreover, Eomes may rescue Th1-mediated allograft rejection in the absence of IL-4, T-bet, and RORγt.
Genome-wide epigenetic reprogramming is required for successful preimplantation development. Inappropriate or deficient chromatin regulation can result in defective lineage specification and loss of genomic imprinting, compromising normal development. Here we report that two members of the RNA polymerase II associated factor, homolog (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) complex (PAF1 complex) components, Ctr9 and Rtf1, are required during mammalian preimplantation development. We demonstrate that Ctr9-deficient embryos fail to correctly specify lineages at the blastocyst stage. Expression of some lineage specific factors is markedly reduced in Ctr9 knockdown embryos, including Eomes, Elf5 and Sox2, while others are inappropriately expressed (Oct4, Nanog, Gata6, Fgf4 and Sox17). We also show that several imprinted genes (Mest, Peg3, Snrpn and Meg3) are aberrantly expressed although allele specific DNA methylation is not altered. We document a loss of histone H3 lysine 36 trimethylation (H3K36me3) in Ctr9-deficient embryos and confirm that knockdown of either Setd2 or Rtf1 results in similar phenotypes. These findings show that the PAF1 complex is required for mammalian development, likely through regulation of H3K36me3, and indicate functional conservation of the PAF1 complex from yeast to mammals in vivo.
In adoptive therapy, CD8 T cells expressing active STAT5 (STAT5CA) transcription factors were found to be superior to unmanipulated counterparts in long-term persistence, capacity to infiltrate autochthonous mouse melanomas, thrive in their microenvironment, and induce their regression. However, the molecular mechanisms sustaining these properties were undefined. In this study, we report that STAT5CA induced sustained expression of genes controlling tissue homing, cytolytic granule composition, type 1 CD8 cytotoxic T cell-associated effector molecules granzyme B(+), IFN-γ(+), TNF-α(+), and CCL3(+), but not IL-2, and transcription factors T-bet and eomesodermin (Eomes). Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing analyses identified the genes possessing regulatory regions to which STAT5 bound in long-term in vivo maintained STAT5CA-expressing CD8 T cells. This analysis identified 34% of the genes differentially expressed between STAT5CA-expressing and nonexpressing effector T cells as direct STAT5CA target genes, including those encoding T-bet, Eomes, and granzyme B. Additionally, genes encoding the IL-6R and TGFbRII subunits were stably repressed, resulting in dampened IL-17-producing CD8 T cell polarization in response to IL-6 and TGF-β1. The absence of T-bet did not affect STAT5CA-driven accumulation of the T cells in tissue or their granzyme B expression but restored IL-2 secretion and IL-6R and TGFbRII expression and signaling, as illustrated by IL-17 induction. Therefore, concerted STAT5/T-bet/Eomes regulation controls homing, long-term maintenance, recall responses, and resistance to polarization towards IL-17-producing CD8 T cells while maintaining expression of an efficient type 1 CD8 cytotoxic T cell program (granzyme B(+), IFN-γ(+)).
BACKGROUND: During HIV infection distinct mechanisms drive immune activation of the CD4 and CD8 T cells leading to CD4 T-cell depletion and expansion of the CD8 T-cell pool. This immune activation is polyclonal and extends beyond HIV-specific T cells. One consequence of this immune activation is a profound decrease in IL-7Rα (CD127) expression on memory CD8 T cells. The mechanisms leading to this are unknown and because of the potential impact of reduced IL-7 signaling in memory T cells specific to HIV and other pathogens, in the present study we examined the molecular mechanisms implicated in this downregulation of CD127.METHODS: Membrane bound (mIL7RA) and soluble (sIL7RA) mRNA expression was determined by qRT-PCR. CD127, Eomesodermin (Eomes) and T-bet expression in healthy controls and HIV-infected patients were studied by flow cytometry.RESULTS: CD127 downregulation occurs at the transcriptional level for both mIL7RA and sIL7RA alternative spliced forms in the CD127 memory CD8 T cells. CD127 memory CD8 T cells exhibited increased Eomes expression and an 'effector-like' gene profile. These changes were associated with higher HIV-RNA levels. Following combination antiretroviral therapy (cART), there was an increase in CD127 expression over an extended period of time (>5 months) which was associated with decreased Eomes expression.CONCLUSION: CD127 is downregulated at a transcriptional level in memory CD8 T cells in association with upregulation of Eomes expression.
Signals from the T-cell recognition of antigen program effector functions are necessary to clear infections and tumors. The JNK pathway is critically important in regulating this process. In T lymphocytes, JNK1 and JNK2 have distinct functions depending on their maturation state and cell-type. However, the mechanisms that regulate their isoform-specific activity and function are still unclear. Here, we identify plenty of SH3 (POSH) and JNK-interacting protein 1 (JIP-1) as a multiprotein scaffold network for TCR-mediated JNK1 activation in CD8(+) T cells. Disruption of the POSH/JIP-1 complex led to profound defects in the activation of JNK1, as well as deficient activation or induction of the transcription factors c-Jun, T-bet, and Eomesodermin. Furthermore, disruption of the POSH/JIP complex in CD8(+) T cells resulted in impaired proliferation, decreased cytokine expression, and the inability to control tumors. Collectively, these data identify a mechanism for the specific regulation of TCR-dependent JNK1 activation and function that is key for CD8(+) T-cell responses.
IL-5 plays important roles in eosinophil differentiation, expansion, and recruitment. The regulation of IL-5 seems critical for the treatment of eosinophil-mediated allergic reactions. However, the precise mechanisms for IL-5 regulation remain unknown. In this study, we investigated how IL-5 production is regulated. The transduction of GATA-3 into a murine T cell hybridoma resulted in acquiring the ability to produce IL-5 in response to an antigenic stimulus like Th2 cells. This production was dependent on the cAMP-PKA pathway, but not on p38 activation. Transduction of NIK largely impaired IL-5 production. RelA and RelB similarly impaired IL-5 production. RelA decreased not only IL-5 protein amount but mRNA. RelA also inhibited Il5-luciferase reporter activity. The transduction of GATA-3 decreased the expression of Tbx21 and Eomes, but the additional transduction of RelA abrogated the decreased expression of GATA-3-induced Tbx21 and Eomes. Furthermore, the transduction of T-bet or Eomes into the GATA-3-transduced T cell hybridoma impaired IL-5 production. These results suggested that strong enhancement of the NFκB pathway downregulates IL-5 production and upregulates T-box protein expression to shift an immune response from Th2 to inflammatory Th1.
T cell responses to low-affinity T cell receptor (TCR) ligands occur in the context of infection, tumors, and autoimmunity despite diminished TCR signal strength. The processes that enable such responses remain unclear. We show that distinct mechanisms drive effector/memory development in high- and low-affinity T cells. Low-affinity cells preferentially differentiate into memory precursors of a central memory phenotype that are interleukin (IL)-12R(lo), IL-7R(hi), and Eomes(hi). Strikingly, in contrast to naive cells, low-affinity memory cells were impaired in the response to low- but not high-affinity ligands, indicating that low-affinity cells are programmed to generate diverse immune responses while avoiding autoreactivity. Affinity and antigen dose directly correlated with IL-12R signal input and T-bet but not with Eomes expression because low- affinity signals were more potent inducers of Eomes at a high antigen dose. Our studies explain how weak antigenic signals induce complete primary immune responses and provide a framework for therapeutic intervention.
Induction of functional CTLs is one of the major goals for vaccine development and cancer therapy. Inflammatory cytokines are critical for memory CTL generation. Wnt signaling is important for CTL priming and memory formation, but its role in cytokine-driven memory CTL programming is unclear. We found that wnt signaling inhibited IL-12-driven CTL activation and memory programming. This impaired memory CTL programming was attributed to up-regulation of eomes and down-regulation of T-bet. Wnt signaling suppressed the mTOR pathway during CTL activation, which was different to its effects on other cell types. Interestingly, the impaired memory CTL programming by wnt was partially rescued by mTOR inhibitor rapamycin. In conclusion, we found that crosstalk between wnt and the IL-12 signaling inhibits T-bet and mTOR pathways and impairs memory programming which can be recovered in part by rapamycin. In addition, direct inhibition of wnt signaling during CTL activation does not affect CTL memory programming. Therefore, wnt signaling may serve as a new tool for CTL manipulation in autoimmune diseases and immune therapy for certain cancers.
Transgenic mouse lines expressing inducible forms of Cre-recombinase in a tissue-specific manner are powerful genetic tools for studying aspects of development and various processes in the adult. The T-box transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes) plays critical roles for maintenance and differentiation of different pools of stem and progenitor cells from early embryonic stages to adulthood. These include trophoblast stem cells, epiblast cells during the generation of the primary germ layers, neurogenic intermediate progenitor cells in embryonic and adult cortical neurogenesis, and maturing natural killer and T cells. Here, we report on the generation and analysis of an Eomes(CreER) -targeted allele by placing the tamoxifen-activatable Cre-recombinase (CreER) under the control of the Eomes genomic locus. We demonstrate that CreER expression recapitulates endogenous Eomes transcription within different progenitor cell populations. Tamoxifen administration specifically labels Eomes-expressing cells and their progeny as demonstrated by crossing Eomes(CreER) animals to different Cre-inducible reporter strains. In summary, this novel Eomes(CreER) allele can be used as elegant genetic tool that allows to follow the fate of Eomes-positive cells and to genetically manipulate them in a temporal specific manner.
NK T cells(NKT cells) share functional characteristics and homing properties that are distinct from conventional T cells. In this study, we investigated the contribution of CD28 in the functional development of γδ NKT and αβ NKT cells in mice. We show that CD28 promotes the thymic maturation of promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger(+) IL-4(+) NKT cells and upregulation of LFA-1 expression on NKT cells. We demonstrate that the developmental defect of γδ NKT cells in CD28-deficient mice is cell autonomous. Moreover, we show in both wild-type C57BL/6 mice and in downstream of tyrosine kinase-1 transgenic mice, a mouse model with increased numbers of γδ NKT cells, that CD28-mediated regulation of thymic IL-4(+) NKT cells promotes the differentiation of eomesodermin(+) CD44(high) innate-like CD8(+) T cells. These findings reveal a previously unappreciated mechanism by which CD28 controls NKT-cell homeostasis and the size of the innate-like CD8(+) T-cell pool.
The use of poly-(D,L-lactic-co-glycolic) acid (PLGA) particles as carriers for DNA delivery has received considerable attention in mammalian studies. DNA vaccination of fish has been shown to elicit durable transgene expression, but no reports exist on intramuscular administration of PLGA-encapsulated plasmid DNA (pDNA). We injected Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) intramuscularly with a plasmid vector containing a luciferase (Photinus pyralis) reporter gene as a) naked pDNA, b) encapsulated into PLGA nano- (~320 nm) (NP) or microparticles (~4 μm) (MP), c) in an oil-based formulation, or with empty particles of both sizes. The ability of the different pDNA-treatments to induce transgene expression was analyzed through a 70-day experimental period. Anatomical distribution patterns and depot effects were determined by tracking isotope labeled pDNA. Muscle, head kidney and spleen from all treatment groups were analyzed for proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β), antiviral genes (IFN-α, Mx) and cytotoxic T-cell markers (CD8, Eomes) at mRNA transcription levels at days 1, 2, 4 and 7. Histopathological examinations were performed on injection site samples from days 2, 7 and 30. Injection of either naked pDNA or the oil-formulation was superior to particle treatments for inducing transgene expression at early time-points. Empty particles of both sizes were able to induce proinflammatory immune responses as well as degenerative and inflammatory pathology at the injection site. Microparticles demonstrated injection site depots and an inflammatory pathology comparable to the oil-based formulation. In comparison, the distribution of NP-encapsulated pDNA resembled that of naked pDNA, although encapsulation into NPs significantly elevated the expression of antiviral genes in all tissues. Together the results indicate that while naked pDNA is most efficient for inducing transgene expression, the encapsulation of pDNA into NPs up-regulates antiviral responses that could be of benefit to DNA vaccination.
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) is one of the epidrugs developed for cancer treatment that works epigenetically by inhibiting histone deacetylases (HDACs). SAHA has been reported to diffuse across the placenta and found in fetal plasma in preclinical study, implying that it can influence fetus if taken by pregnant cancer patients. However, report regarding this aspect and the study of in utero HDAC inhibition by SAHA especially on fate specification of neural stem/progenitor cells within the developing mammalian cortex, is yet unavailable. Here we show that transient exposure of SAHA to mouse embryos during prominent neurogenic period resulted in an enhancement of cortical neurogenesis, which is accompanied by an increased expression of proneuronal transcription factor Neurog1. Neurogenesis was enhanced due to the increase number of proliferating Tbr2+ intermediate progenitor cells following SAHA exposure. In this relation, we observed that SAHA perturbed neonatal cortical lamination because of the increased production of Cux1+ and Satb2+ upper-layer neurons, and decreased that of Ctip2+ deep-layer neurons. Furthermore, an upper-layer neuronal lineage determinant Satb2 was also up-regulated, whereas those of deep-layer ones Fezf2 and Ctip2 were down-regulated by SAHA treatment. Taken together, our study suggests that proper regulation of HDACs is important for precise embryonic corticogenesis.
Comment in    J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2013 Aug;132(2):412-3.
Memory T cells are composed of effector, central, and memory stem cells. Previous studies have implicated that both T-bet and Eomes are involved in the generation of effector and central memory CD8 T cells. The exact role of these transcription factors in shaping the memory T cell pool is not well understood, particularly with memory stem T cells. Here, we demonstrate that both T-bet or Eomes are required for elimination of established tumors by adoptively transferred CD8 T cells. We also examined the role of T-bet and Eomes in the generation of tumor-specific memory T cell subsets upon adoptive transfer. We showed that combined T-bet and Eomes deficiency resulted in a severe reduction in the number of effector/central memory T cells but an increase in the percentage of CD62L(high)CD44(low) Sca-1(+) T cells which were similar to the phenotype of memory stem T cells. Despite preserving large numbers of phenotypic memory stem T cells, the lack of both of T-bet and Eomes resulted in a profound defect in antitumor memory responses, suggesting T-bet and Eomes are crucial for the antitumor function of these memory T cells. Our study establishes that T-bet and Eomes cooperate to promote the phenotype of effector/central memory CD8 T cell versus that of memory stem like T cells.
Various somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) techniques for mammalian species have been developed to adjust species-specific procedures to oocyte-associated differences among species. Species-specific SCNT protocols may result in different expression levels of developmentally important genes that may affect embryonic development and pregnancy. In the present study, porcine oocytes were treated with demecolcine that facilitated enucleation with protruding genetic material. Enucleation and donor cell injection were performed either simultaneously with a single pipette (simplified one-step SCNT; SONT) or separately with different pipettes (conventional two-step SCNT; CTNT) as the control procedure. After blastocysts from both groups were cultured in vitro, the expression levels of developmentally important genes (OCT4, NANOG, EOMES, CDX2, GLUT-1, PolyA, and HSP70) were analyzed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Both the developmental rate according to blastocyst stage as well as the expression levels CDX2, EOMES, and HSP70 were elevated with SONT compared to CTNT. The genes with elevated expression are known to influence trophectoderm formation and heat stress-induced arrest. These results showed that our SONT technique improved the development of SCNT porcine embryos, and increased the expression of genes that are important for placental formation and stress-induced arrest.
Signals from the TCR that specifically contribute to effector versus memory CD8⁺ T cell differentiation are poorly understood. Using mice and adoptively transferred T lymphocytes lacking the small GTPase N-ras, we found that N-ras-deficient CD8⁺ T cells differentiate efficiently into antiviral primary effectors but have a severe defect in generating protective memory cells. This defect was rescued, although only partly, by rapamycin-mediated inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) in vivo. The memory defect correlated with a marked impairment in vitro and in vivo of the antigen-mediated early induction of T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes), whereas T-bet was unaffected. Besides N-ras, early Eomes induction in vitro required phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation, and it was largely insensitive to rapamycin. Consistent with N-ras coupling Eomes to T cell memory, retrovirally enforced expression of Eomes in N-ras-deficient CD8⁺ T cells effectively rescued their memory differentiation. Thus, our study identifies a critical role for N-ras as a TCR-proximal regulator of Eomes for early determination of the CD8⁺ T cell memory fate.
BACKGROUND: Asthma is a predominantly TH2 cell-dominated inflammatory disease characterized by airway inflammation and a major public health concern affecting millions of persons. The Tec family tyrosine kinase IL-2-inducible T-cell kinase (Itk) is primarily expressed in T cells and critical for the function and differentiation of TH cells. Itk(-/-) mice have a defective TH2 response and are not susceptible to allergic asthma.OBJECTIVE: We sought to better understand the role of Itk signaling in TH differentiation programs and in the development and molecular pathology of allergic asthma.METHODS: Using a murine model of allergic airway inflammation, we dissected the role of Itk in regulating TH cell differentiation through genetic ablation of critical genes, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, and house dust mite-driven allergic airway inflammation.RESULTS: Peripheral naive Itk(-/-) CD4(+) T cells have substantially increased transcripts and expression of the prototypic TH1 genes Eomesodermin, IFN-γ, T-box transcription factor (T-bet), and IL-12Rβ1. Removal of IFN-γ on the Itk(-/-) background rescues expression of TH2-related genes in TH cells and allergic airway inflammation in Itk(-/-) mice. Furthermore, small hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of Itk in human peripheral blood T cells results in increased expression of mRNA for IFN-γ and T-bet and reduction in expression of IL-4.CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that Itk signals suppress the expression of IFN-γ in naive CD4(+) T cells, which in a positive feed-forward loop regulates the expression of TH1 factors, such as T-bet and Eomesodermin, and suppress development of TH2 cells and allergic airway inflammation.
Comment in    Immunity. 2013 Jun 27;38(6):1090-1.
We aimed to identify cis-regulatory elements that control gene expression in progenitors of the cerebral cortex. A list of 975 putative enhancers were retrieved from a ChIP-Seq experiment performed in NS5 mouse stem cells with antibodies to Sox2, Brn2/Pou3f2, or Brn1/Pou3f3. Through a selection pipeline including gene ontology and expression pattern, we reduced the number of candidate enhancer sequences to 20. Ex vivo electroporation of green fluorescent pProtein (GFP) reporter constructs in the telencephalon of mouse embryos showed that 35% of the 20 selected candidate sequences displayed enhancer activity in the developing cortex at E13.5. In silico transcription factor binding site (TFBS) searches and mutagenesis experiments showed that enhancer activity is related to the presence of Sox/Pou TFBS pairs in the sequence. Comparative genomic analyses showed that enhancer activity is not related to the evolutionary conservation of the sequence. Finally, the combination of in utero electroporation of GFP reporter constructs with immunostaining for Tbr2 (basal progenitor marker) and phospho-histoneH3 (mitotic activity marker) demonstrated that each enhancer is specifically active in precise subpopulations of progenitors in the cortical germinal zone, highlighting the heterogeneity of these progenitors in terms of cis-regulation.
The forkhead O transcription factors (FOXO) integrate a range of extracellular signals, including growth factor signaling, inflammation, oxidative stress, and nutrient availability, to substantially alter the program of gene expression and modulate cell survival, cell cycle progression, and many yet to be unraveled cell type-specific responses. Naive antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells undergo a rapid expansion and arming of effector function within days of pathogen exposure. In addition, by the peak of expansion, they form precursors to memory T cells capable of self-renewal and indefinite survival. Using lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus Armstrong to probe the response to infection, we found that Foxo1(-/-) CD8(+) T cells expand normally with no defects in effector differentiation, but continue to exhibit characteristics of effector T cells long after antigen clearance. The KLRG1(lo) CD8(+) T cells that are normally enriched for memory-precursor cells retain Granzyme B and CD69 expression, and fail to up-regulate TCF7, EOMES, and other memory signature genes. As a correlate, Foxo1(-/-) CD8(+) T cells were virtually unable to expand upon secondary infection. Collectively, these results demonstrate an intrinsic role for FOXO1 in establishing the post-effector memory program that is essential to forming long-lived memory cells capable of immune reactivation.
The mammalian neocortical progenitor cell niche is composed of a diverse repertoire of neuroepithelial cells, radial glia (RG), and intermediate neurogenic progenitors (INPs). Previously, live-cell imaging experiments have proved crucial in identifying these distinct progenitor populations, especially INPs, which amplify neural output by undergoing additional rounds of proliferation before differentiating into new neurons. INPs also provide feedback to the RG pool by serving as a source of Delta-like 1 (Dll1), a key ligand for activating Notch signaling in neighboring cells, a well-known mechanism for maintaining RG identity. While much is known about Dll1-Notch signaling at the molecular level, little is known about how this cell-cell contact dependent feedback is transmitted at the cellular level. To investigate how RG and INPs might interact to convey Notch signals, we used high-resolution live-cell multiphoton microscopy (MPM) to directly observe cellular interactions and dynamics, in conjunction with Notch-pathway specific reporters in the neocortical neural stem cell niche in organotypic brain slices from embryonic mice. We found that INPs and RG interact via dynamic and transient elongate processes, some apparently long-range (extending from the subventricular zone to the ventricular zone), and some short-range (filopodia-like). Gene expression profiling of RG and INPs revealed further progenitor cell diversification, including different subpopulations of Hes1+ and/or Hes5+ RG, and Dll1+ and/or Dll3+ INPs. Thus, the embryonic progenitor niche includes a network of dynamic cell-cell interactions, using different combinations of Notch signaling molecules to maintain and likely diversify progenitor pools.
Reciprocal inductive interactions between the embryonic and extraembryonic tissues establish the anterior-posterior (AP) axis of the early mouse embryo. The anterior visceral endoderm (AVE) signaling center emerges at the distal tip of the embryo at embryonic day 5.5 and translocates to the prospective anterior side of the embryo. The process of AVE induction and migration are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that the T-box gene Eomesodermin (Eomes) plays an essential role in AVE recruitment, in part by directly activating the homeobox transcription factor Lhx1. Thus, Eomes function in the visceral endoderm (VE) initiates an instructive transcriptional program controlling AP identity.
During development of the embryonic neocortex, tightly regulated expansion of neural stem cells (NSCs) and their transition to intermediate progenitors (IPs) are critical for normal cortical formation and function. Molecular mechanisms that regulate NSC expansion and transition remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the microRNA (miRNA) miR-17-92 cluster is required for maintaining proper populations of cortical radial glial cells (RGCs) and IPs through repression of Pten and Tbr2 protein. Knockout of miR-17-92 and its paralogs specifically in the developing neocortex restricts NSC proliferation, suppresses RGC expansion, and promotes transition of RGCs to IPs. Moreover, Pten and Tbr2 protectors specifically block silencing activities of endogenous miR-17-92 and control proper numbers of RGCs and IPs in vivo. Our results demonstrate a critical role for miRNAs in promoting NSC proliferation and modulating the cell-fate decision of generating distinct neural progenitors in the developing neocortex.
The abundant expression of IFNγ in Th-inducing POK (ThPOK)-deficient CD4(+) T cells requires the activation of Eomesodermin (Eomes); however, the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon remains unclear. Here we report that ThPOK binds directly to the promoter region of the Eomes gene to repress its expression in CD4(+) T cells. We identified the histone acetyltransferase TIP60 as a co-repressor of ThPOK-target genes, where ectopically expressed TIP60 increased ThPOK protein stability by promoting its acetylation at its Lys(360) residue to then augment the transcriptional repression of Eomes. Moreover, knockdown of endogenous TIP60 abolished the stabilization of ThPOK in CD4(+) T cells, which led to the transcriptional activation of Eomes and increased production of IFNγ. Our results reveal a novel pathway by which TIP60 and ThPOK synergistically suppresses Eomes function and IFNγ production, which could contribute to the regulation of inflammation.
Interferon tau (IFNT), produced for a short interval during early pregnancy by the ruminant embryonic trophectoderm, is essential for the maintenance of early pregnancy, but the mechanism by which it is transcriptionally regulated has not been fully determined. To identify a transcription factor(s) involved in the down-regulation of IFNT genes, mRNAs for various known transcription factors were investigated by reverse-transcriptase and real-time PCR in conceptus tissues collected on Days 15, 17, and 21, or Days 17, 20, and 22 of ovine or bovine pregnancy, respectively. In particular, the T-box protein eomesodermin (EOMES) exhibited high mRNA expression in Day 17 or 22 ovine or bovine conceptuses. Interaction between EOMES and the identified transcription factors was studied using transient transfection, revealing that ovine/bovine IFNT-reporter transactivation was down-regulated by EOMES. Transcription factor interactions with EOMES were further studied through immunoprecipitation, demonstrating an association between EOMES and cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB)-binding protein (CREBBP). Uterine flushing media collected from cyclic or early pregnancy animals were added to bovine trophoblast CT-1 cells cultured on type-I collagen (monoculture) or bovine uterine epithelial cells (coculture) in an attempt to regulate EOMES expression. In the coculture, but not the monoculture, addition of uterine flushing from Day 17 pregnant animals resulted in increased EOMES expression in CT-1 cells. These results suggest that as conceptuses attach to the uterine epithelium, IFNT gene transcription is down-regulated by an increase in EOMES expression and EOMES-CREBBP binding in the attached trophoblast cells.
To understand life-long neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG), characterizing dentate neural stem cells and the signals controlling their development are crucial. In the present study, we show that bone morphogenic protein (Bmp) signaling is a critical regulator of embryonic dentate development, required for initiating neurogenesis in embryonic DG progenitors and required for the establishment of dentate neural stem cells postnatally. We tested the hypothesis that Bmp signaling regulates dentate development in part by controlling the expression of Lef1, a Wnt responsive transcription factor expressed in dentate stem cells and absolutely required for dentate granule cell production. Bmp activation through the Acvr1 receptor induced Lef1 expression and neurogenesis in the embryonic DG. Ectopic expression of Bmp7 in the embryonic midline increased DG neurogenesis and inhibition of local Bmp signaling decreased embryonic DG neurogenesis. Mice with selective loss of Bmp expression due to defective meningeal development or with selective conditional deletion of meningeal Bmp7 also have dentate developmental defects. Conditional deletion of Activin receptor type I (Acvr1) or Smad4 (a downstream target nuclear effector of Bmp signaling) in DG neural stem cells resulted in defects in the postnatal subgranular zone and reduced neurogenesis. These results suggest that Acvr1-mediated meningeal Bmp signaling regulates Lef1 expression in the dentate, regulating embryonic DG neurogenesis, DG neural stem cell niche formation, and maintenance.
Stem cell differentiation depends on transcriptional activation driven by lineage-specific regulators as well as changes in chromatin organization. However, the coordination of these events is poorly understood. Here, we show that T-box proteins team up with chromatin modifying enzymes to drive the expression of the key lineage regulator, Eomes during endodermal differentiation of embryonic stem (ES) cells. The Eomes locus is maintained in a transcriptionally poised configuration in ES cells. During early differentiation steps, the ES cell factor Tbx3 associates with the histone demethylase Jmjd3 at the enhancer element of the Eomes locus to allow enhancer-promoter interactions. This spatial reorganization of the chromatin primes the cells to respond to Activin signalling, which promotes the binding of Jmjd3 and Eomes to its own bivalent promoter region to further stimulate Eomes expression in a positive feedback loop. In addition, Eomes activates a transcriptional network of core regulators of endodermal differentiation. Our results demonstrate that Jmjd3 sequentially associates with two T-box factors, Tbx3 and Eomes to drive stem cell differentiation towards the definitive endoderm lineage.
Mesp1 sits on the tip of the cardiac regulatory hierarchy, recent evidences support that it is regulated by stem cell factor Oct4, early gastrulation signal canonical Wnts and a couple of T-box factors, T and Eomes. With other transcription factors, Mesp1 programs/reprograms human cells toward cardiomyocytes.
Cerebral cortical neurons arise from radial glia (direct neurogenesis) or from intermediate progenitors (indirect neurogenesis); intriguingly, the sizes of intermediate progenitor populations and the cortices they generate correlate across species. The generation of intermediate progenitors is regulated by the transcription factor Tbr2, whose expression marks these cells. We investigated how this mechanism might be controlled. We found that acute blockade of mature microRNA biosynthesis in murine cortical progenitors caused a rapid cell autonomous increase in numbers of Tbr2-expressing cells. Acute microRNA-92b (miR-92b) gain of function caused rapid reductions in numbers of Tbr2-expressing cells and proliferating intermediate progenitors. Acute miR-92b loss of function had opposite effects. These findings indicate that miR-92b limits the production of intermediate cortical progenitors.
Although extraembryonic ectoderm trophoblast signals the embryo for primitive streak initiation, a prerequisite for gastrulation, it is unknown whether it also signals for the progression of gastrulation after primitive streak initiation. Here, using Ets2-/- mice, we show that trophoblast signalling is also required in vivo for primitive streak elongation, completion of intraembryonic mesoderm epithelial-mesenchymal transition and the development of anterior primitive streak derivatives such as the node. We show that Ets2-dependent trophoblast signalling is required for the maintenance of high levels of Nodal and Wnt3 expression in the epiblast and for the induction of Snail expression in the primitive streak, between embryonic day 6.3 and 6.7. Within extraembryonic ectoderm trophoblast, Ets2 maintains the expression of the transcription factors Elf5, Cdx2 and Eomes, and that of the signalling molecule Bmp4. We propose a model that provides a genetic explanation as to how Ets2 in trophoblast mediates the progression of gastrulation within the epiblast.
4-1BB agonist antibody treatment induces a population of KLRG1(+) T cells that infiltrate melanoma tumors. We investigated the origin and function of these cells, as well as their place within established T cell paradigms. We find that these T cells, particularly the CD4 lineage, represent a novel phenotype characterized by enhanced, multipotent cytotoxicity. Distinct from described polarities, this T cell phenotype is driven by the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin. Formation of this phenotype requires 4-1BB signaling on both T and antigen-presenting cells and the resulting production of the cytokines IL-27, IL-15, and IL-10. Furthermore, we find CD4(+) T cells bearing the signature features of this phenotype in the livers of mice infected with both bacterial and viral intracellular pathogens, suggesting a role for these cells in infectious immunity. These T cells constitute a novel phenotype that resolves multiple questions associated with 4-1BB activation, including how 4-1BB enhances tumor-specific cytotoxicity and how 4-1BB can promote tumor immunity while repressing autoimmunity.
Sublineage diversification of specific neural cell classes occurs in complex as well as simply organized regions of the central and peripheral nervous systems; the significance of the phenomenon, however, remains insufficiently understood. The unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are glutamatergic cerebellar interneurons that occur at high density in vestibulocerebellum. As they are classified into subsets that differ in chemical phenotypes, intrinsic properties, and lobular distribution, they represent a valuable neuronal model to study subclass diversification. In this study, we show that cerebellar UBCs of adult rats and mice form two subclasses-type I and type II UBCs-defined by somatodendritic expression of calretinin (CR), mGluR1α, phospholipases PLCβ1 and PLCβ4, and diacylglycerol kinase-beta (DGKβ). We demonstrate that PLCβ1 is associated only with the CR(+) type I UBCs, while PLCβ4 and DGKβ are exclusively present in mGluR1α(+) type II UBCs. Notably, all PLCβ4(+) UBCs, representing about 2/3 of entire UBC population, also express mGluR1α. Furthermore, our data show that the sum of CR(+) type I UBCs and mGluR1α(+) type II UBCs accounts for the entire UBC class identified with Tbr2 immunolabeling. The two UBC subtypes also show a very different albeit somehow overlapping topographical distribution as illustrated by detailed cerebellar maps in this study. Our data not only complement and extend the previous knowledge on the diversity and subclass specificity of the chemical phenotypes within the UBC population, but also provide a new angle to the understanding of the signaling networks in type I and type II UBCs.
In mice, two T-box transcription factors, T-box expressed in T cells (T-bet) and eomesodermin (Eomes), drive the differentiation of CD8 T cell lineages; however, little is known regarding their role in human CD8 T cell differentiation. In this study, we characterized T-bet and Eomes expression and localization within human CD8 memory T cell populations. We find that T-bet and Eomes are broadly expressed in human memory CD8 T cells, with increasing levels of T-bet and Eomes strongly correlating with differentiation from central memory to effector memory and effector subpopulations. In resting T cells, T-bet levels directly correlate to subcellular localization, with a higher propensity for nuclear expression of T-bet within T-bet(hi) cells and predominantly cytoplasmic expression in T-bet(lo) cells. In addition, Eomes is also localized to either the nucleus or the cytoplasm. Upon TCR stimulation, the percentage of T cells that express T-bet dramatically increases, whereas the percentage of cells expressing Eomes remains largely unchanged across all memory populations. Of interest, T-bet, but not Eomes, relocalizes to the nucleus in the majority of cells across all populations within 24 h post stimulation. These data indicate that T-bet and Eomes are likely regulated at the level of subcellular localization, potentially via different mechanisms. Together, these findings suggest a novel model for CD8 T cell differentiation in humans that is based on the localization of T-bet and Eomes.
The dentate gyrus (DG) is a unique cortical region whose protracted development spans the embryonic and early postnatal periods. DG development involves large-scale reorganization of progenitor cell populations, ultimately leading to the establishment of the subgranular zone neurogenic niche. In the developing DG, the T-box transcription factor Tbr2 is expressed in both Cajal-Retzius cells derived from the cortical hem that guide migration of progenitors and neurons to the DG, and intermediate neuronal progenitors born in the dentate neuroepithelium that give rise to granule neurons. Here we show that in mice Tbr2 is required for proper migration of Cajal-Retzius cells to the DG; and, in the absence of Tbr2, formation of the hippocampal fissure is abnormal, leading to aberrant development of the transhilar radial glial scaffold and impaired migration of progenitors and neuroblasts to the developing DG. Furthermore, loss of Tbr2 results in decreased expression of Cxcr4 in migrating cells, leading to a premature burst of granule neurogenesis during early embryonic development accompanied by increased cell death in mutant animals. Formation of the transient subpial neurogenic zone was abnormal in Tbr2 conditional knock-outs, and the stem cell population in the DG was depleted before proper establishment of the subgranular zone. These studies indicate that Tbr2 is explicitly required for morphogenesis of the DG and participates in multiple aspects of the intricate developmental process of this structure.
Comment in    J Leukoc Biol. 2013 Jun;93(6):819-21.
The cortical area map is initially patterned by transcription factor (TF) gradients in the neocortical primordium, which define a "protomap" in the embryonic ventricular zone (VZ). However, mechanisms that propagate regional identity from VZ progenitors to cortical plate (CP) neurons are unknown. Here we show that the VZ, subventricular zone (SVZ), and CP contain distinct molecular maps of regional identity, reflecting different gene expression gradients in radial glia progenitors, intermediate progenitors, and projection neurons, respectively. The "intermediate map" in the SVZ is modulated by Eomes (also known as Tbr2), a T-box TF. Eomes inactivation caused rostrocaudal shifts in SVZ and CP gene expression, with loss of corticospinal axons and gain of corticotectal projections. These findings suggest that cortical areas and connections are shaped by sequential maps of regional identity, propagated by the Pax6 → Eomes → Tbr1 TF cascade. In humans, PAX6, EOMES, and TBR1 have been linked to intellectual disability and autism.
Infectious pancreatic necrosis virus (IPNV) is a highly contagious disease causing high mortalities in juvenile salmonids. Lack of correlation between neutralizing antibodies and infecting virus suggests a likelihood of involvement of the cellular mediated immune response in vaccine protection. To elucidate the kinetics of CD4 and CD8 T-cells responses in vaccine protection, Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L) were vaccinated with a high antigen (HiAg) or low antigen (LoAg) dose vaccine and challenged by cohabitation using a highly virulent Norwegian Sp strain. Analysis of T-cell gene expression in lymphoid organs (headkidney and spleen) showed that GATA-3 was positively correlated with increase in antibody levels when T-bet was low. Conversely, T-bet and FoxP3 were positively correlated with viral infection and negatively correlated with increase in antibody levels. Among the CD8+ T cell genes, expression of eomes and CD8α were positively correlated with increase in viral copy numbers and negatively correlated with increase in antibody levels. Up-regulation of granzyme A was highly correlated with increase in viral copy numbers in the LoAg and control groups indicating that this gene could save as a diagnostic marker of acute infection for IPNV during acute infection. In contrast, its down regulation in the HiAg which had low viral copy numbers corresponded with high antibody levels. Overall, these data show that the kinetics of CD4 and CD8 T-cell genes expression follow the same pattern as that observed in higher vertebrates. These findings suggest that functional signatures of the cellular mediated immune response could be evolutionary conserved across the vertebrate taxa and that they can effectively be used to monitor vaccine protection and infection progression of IPNV in Atlantic salmon.
Eomesodermin (Eomes), a T-bet homologue expressed in activated CD8+T cells was recently proposed to act as a master regulator of cytotoxic CD8+ T cell effector function and offers an exciting avenue for future exploration. Here, we have identified and characterized the full-length Atlantic salmon Eomes cDNA (2477 bp). Promoter analysis of the salmon Eomes showed the presence of important putative transcription binding sites like SP1, FOXO, Oct-1, SMAD, STAT, IRF, and Ets-1. The basal core region responsible for the promoter activity was located between base -199 and +59. Quantitative PCR analysis revealed that the Atlantic salmon Eomes was ubiquitously expressed in all the tissues studied but strongly expressed in the ovary, spleen, brain, and the head kidney. Moreover, the involvement of Eomes in Atlantic salmon immune response and its relation with the cytolytic activity was demonstrated by investigating the early time dependent expression profile of Eomes and CD8α followed by high interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and granzyme A expression during challenge with live Aeromonas salmonicida and Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis (IPN) virus. Therefore, we further analyzed the regulated expression and function of this transcription factor in spleen lymphocytes. Overexpression of Eomes induced IFN-γ, and granzyme A expression but not perforin expression, whereas small interfering RNA (siRNA) mediated suppression of Eomes expression led to significantly reduced IFN-γ production. Thus, Eomes may be critical in cytolytic gene expression and function in fish similar to mammals. Furthermore, IFN-α, and mitogens induced Eomes expression. Taken together, this is the first study on the promoter activity and regulatory role of Eomes in fish.
The mammalian placenta is remarkably distinct between species, suggesting a history of rapid evolutionary diversification. To gain insight into the molecular drivers of placental evolution, we compared biochemically predicted enhancers in mouse and rat trophoblast stem cells (TSCs) and found that species-specific enhancers are highly enriched for endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) on a genome-wide level. One of these ERV families, RLTR13D5, contributes hundreds of mouse-specific histone H3 lysine 4 monomethylation (H3K4me1)- and histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation (H3K27ac)-defined enhancers that functionally bind Cdx2, Eomes and Elf5-core factors that define the TSC regulatory network. Furthermore, we show that RLTR13D5 is capable of driving gene expression in rat placental cells. Analysis in other tissues shows that species-specific ERV enhancer activity is generally restricted to hypomethylated tissues, suggesting that tissues permissive for ERV activity gain access to an otherwise silenced source of regulatory variation. Overall, our results implicate ERV enhancer co-option as a mechanism underlying the extensive evolutionary diversification of placental development.
Tracking olfactory bulb mitral cell development with BrdU labeling, we find that mitral cells are generated from Pax6+ radial glial cells in the ventricular zone of the embryonic olfactory bulb. Unlike cortical projection neurons, postmitotic mitral cell precursors express both Tbr1 and Tbr2. Our tracking experiments revealed that down-regulation of Pax6 preceded up-regulation of Tbrs, and that Tbr1 emerged earlier than Tbr2. Using in utero electroporation, we also show that Pax6 negatively regulates the expression of Tbr1 and Tbr2 in postmitotic mitral cell precursors. Exogenous expression of Pax6 in embryonic olfactory bulb postmitotic precursors decreased the number of cells that progressed to a mitral cell fate. In contrast, exogenous expression of Pax6 resulted in an increase of GABAergic and/or dopaminergic interneurons. These results indicate that Pax6 is a regulator of fate determination of precursor cells.
Neural precursor cells (NPCs) in the mammalian neocortex generate various neuronal and glial cell types in a developmental stage-dependent manner. Most neocortical NPCs lose their neurogenic potential after birth. We have previously shown that high-mobility group A (HMGA) proteins confer the neurogenic potential on early-stage NPCs during the midgestation period, although the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. In this study, we found that HMGA2 promotes the expression of insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IMP2, Igf2bp2) in neocortical NPCs. The level of IMP2 was indeed high in early-stage NPCs compared with that in late-stage NPCs. Importantly, over-expression of IMP2 increased the neurogenic potential and suppressed astrocytic differentiation of late-stage NPCs, whereas knockdown of IMP2 promoted astrocytic differentiation and reduced the neurogenic potential of early-stage neocortical NPCs without overtly affecting cell proliferation. Our results thus identified IMP2 as a developmental stage-dependent regulator of the differentiation potentials of NPCs in the mouse neocortex.
Human interleukin (IL)-22-producing RORγt(+) innate lymphoid cells (ILC22) and conventional natural killer (cNK) cells are present in secondary lymphoid tissues. Both have an immunophenotype corresponding to stage III NK progenitors (CD56(+/-)CD117(high)CD94(-)). Using an in vitro differentiation and primary human tissues, we investigated their developmental relationships. cNK cells showed a CD56(+)CD117(+)CD7(+/-)LFA-1(high) phenotype and expressed surface receptors, cytokines, and transcription factors found on mature cNK cells. In contrast, ILC22 cells were contained within the CD56(+)CD117(high)CD94(-)CD7(-)LFA-1(-) fraction and produced IL-22, IL-8, and granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor. Although ILC22 cells expressed NKp44 and CD161, they lacked most other NK receptors and NK-associated transcription factors (T-bet and Eomes) and were incapable of interferon-γ production or cytotoxic responses. Most purified CD56(+)CD117(+)CD7(+/-)LFA-1(-) remained as ILC22 cells and never became cNK cells. In the absence of IL-15, CD34(+) cells showed a complete block in cNK differentiation and instead gave rise to a CD56(+) population of ILC22 cells. Conversely, in the absence of IL-7 and stem cell factor, cNK cells were generated but ILC22 cells showed minimal differentiation. Although human ILC22 cells and cNK progenitors have a phenotype that overlaps with stage III NK progenitors, they have unique cytokine requirements and can be distinguished by LFA-1 expression.
Abnormal trophoblast lineage proliferation and differentiation in early pregnancy have been associated with the pathogenesis of placenta diseases of pregnancy. However, there is still a gap in understanding the molecular mechanisms of early placental development due to the limited primary trophoblast cultures and fidelity of immortalized trophoblast lines. Trophoblasts stem (TS) cells, an in vitro model of trophectoderm that can differentiate into syncytiotrophoblasts and extravillous trophoblasts, can be an attractive tool for early pregnancy research. TS cells are well established in mouse but not in humans due to insufficient knowledge of which trophoblast lineage-specific transcription factors are involved in human trophectoderm (TE) proliferation and differentiation. Here, we applied induced pluripotent stem cell technique to investigate the human trophoblast lineage-specific transcription factors. We established human induced trophoblast progenitor (iTP) cells by direct reprogramming the fibroblasts with a pool of mouse trophoblast lineage-specific transcription factors consisting of CDX2, EOMES, and ELF5. The human iTP cells exhibit epithelial morphology and can be maintained in vitro for more than 2 months. Gene expression profile of these cells was tightly clustered with human trophectoderm but not with human neuron progenitor cells, mesenchymal stem cells, or endoderm cells. These cells are capable of differentiating into cells with an invasive capacity, suggesting extravillous trophoblasts. They also form multi-nucleated cells which secrete human chorionic gonadotropin and estradiol, consistent with a syncytiotrophoblast phenotype. Our results provide the evidence that transcription factors CDX2 and EOMES may play critical roles in human iTP cell generation.
NK cells are a heterogenous population of innate lymphocytes with diverse functional attributes critical for early protection from viral infections. We have previously reported a decrease in influenza-induced NK cell cytotoxicity in 6-mo-old C57BL/6 calorically restricted (CR) mice. In the current study, we extend our findings on the influence of CR on NK cell phenotype and function in the absence of infection. We demonstrate that reduced mature NK cell subsets result in increased frequencies of CD127(+) NK cells in CR mice, skewing the function of the total NK cell pool. NK cells from CR mice produced TNF-α and GM-CSF at a higher level, whereas IFN-γ production was impaired following IL-2 plus IL-12 or anti-NK1.1 stimulation. NK cells from CR mice were highly responsive to stimulation with YAC-1 cells such that CD27(-)CD11b(+) NK cells from CR mice produced granzyme B and degranulated at a higher frequency than CD27(-)CD11b(+) NK cells from ad libitum fed mice. CR has been shown to be a potent dietary intervention, yet the mechanisms by which the CR increases life span have yet to be fully understood. To our knowledge, these findings are the first in-depth analysis of the effects of caloric intake on NK cell phenotype and function and provide important implications regarding potential ways in which CR alters NK cell function prior to infection or cancer.
BACKGROUND: Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors possess anticancer properties potentially useful in reducing posttransplantation malignancy. Besides controlling tumor-sensitive proliferative and angiogenic effects, mTOR influences transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes) in CD8 cytotoxic T cells (Tc), which are key in rejecting tumors, and allografts.METHODS: To study the role of mTOR in tumor and transplant immunity in an antigen-specific way, we used T-cell receptor transgenic B6.OTI recipients, B6.OVA.TG donors, and OVA-B16F10 melanoma cells. For tracking color-coded OTI-Tc cells associated with antitumor and alloimmunity in vivo, CD8-OTI transgenic reporter mice were created by crossbreeding DsRed-expressing B6.Nagy mice with B6.OTI mice.RESULTS: The role of mTOR in regulating the differentiation and function of alloreactive Tc cells in vitro was explored by stimulating OTI-Tc cells with ovalbumin-transgenic antigen-presenting cells in the presence of rapamycin or tacrolimus. Rapamycin, but not tacrolimus, induced a pro-antitumor phenotypic shift from CD62LCD44 effector memory Tc cells to CD62LCD44 central memory Tc cells, which featured up-regulated levels of T-bet and Eomes and preserved levels of interferon-γ and perforin. For future investigations, an in vivo model was established whereby DsRedOTI-Tc cells adoptively transferred into B6 mice bearing either a ovalbumin-transgenic mouse skin transplant or OVA-B16F10 tumor could be traced by fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis as effector or memory Tc cells in transplant and tumor tissues.CONCLUSION: mTOR, but not calcineurin, inhibition spares antitumoral memory Tc cells by distinctively regulating T-bet and Eomes. This finding is now testable in a new tumor transplant model, which incorporates DsRedOTI-Tc cell tracing, opening the way to study the differential effects of immunosuppressants in posttransplantation malignancy.
Embryonic Stem (ES) cells are able to give rise to the three germ layers of the embryo but are prevented from contributing to the trophoblast. The molecular nature of this barrier between embryonic and trophectodermal cell fates is not clear, but is known to involve DNA methylation. Here we demonstrate that the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylation (NuRD) co-repressor complex maintains the developmental barrier between embryonic and trophectodermal cell fates by maintaining transcriptional silencing of trophectoderm determinant genes in ES cells. We further show that NuRD activity facilitates DNA methylation of several of its target promoters, where it acts non-redundantly with DNA methylation to enforce transcriptional silencing. NuRD-deficient ES cells fail to completely silence expression of the trophectoderm determinant genes Elf5 and Eomes, but this alone is not sufficient to induce transdifferentiation towards the trophectoderm fate. Rather this leaves ES cells capable of activating expression of trophectoderm-specific genes in response to appropriate extracellular signals, enabling them to commit to a trophectodermal cell fate. Our findings clarify the molecular nature of the developmental barrier between the embryonic and trophoblast cell fates, and establish a role for NuRD activity in specifying sites for de novo DNA methylation.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2013 Jan;13(1):3.
The T-box transcription factor Eomes is expressed in cytotoxic immune cells and plays an important role in development, maintenance, and function of these cell types. Identification and separation of cells with differential Eomes expression would allow for better understanding of the transcriptional program governing these cytotoxic lymphocytes. Here, we report the use of an Eomes(gfp)-targeted mouse allele that displays robust fidelity to Eomes protein expression in NK and T cells. Use of this reporter mouse revealed that Eomes expression in antiviral effector cells did not correlate with enhanced cytotoxicity but rather was associated with more efficient central memory differentiation. Weakening of reporter activity in Eomes-deficient CD8(+) T cells revealed a critical role for Eomes protein in maintaining central memory cells that have activated the Eomes locus. Characterization of reporter activity in NK lineage cells also permitted identification of a novel intermediate of NK cell maturation. Thus, the murine Eomes(gfp)-targeted allele provides a novel opportunity to explore Eomes biology in cytotoxic lymphocytes.
Recent studies suggest that the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle is populated by heterogeneous populations of stem and progenitor cells that, depending on their exact location, are biased to acquire specific neuronal fates. This newly described heterogeneity of SVZ stem and progenitor cells underlines the necessity to develop methods for the accurate quantification of SVZ stem and progenitor subpopulations. In this study, we provide 3-dimensional topographical maps of slow cycling "stem" cells and progenitors based on their unique cell cycle properties. These maps revealed that both cell populations are present throughout the lateral ventricle wall as well as in discrete regions of the dorsal wall. Immunodetection of transcription factors expressed in defined progenitor populations further reveals that divergent lineages have clear regional enrichments in the rostro-caudal as well as in the dorso-ventral span of the lateral ventricle. Thus, progenitors expressing Tbr2 and Dlx2 were confined to dorsal and dorso-lateral regions of the lateral ventricle, respectively, while Mash1+ progenitors were more homogeneously distributed. All cell populations were enriched in the rostral-most region of the lateral ventricle. This diversity and uneven distribution greatly impede the accurate quantification of SVZ progenitor populations. This is illustrated by measuring the coefficient of error of estimates obtained by using increasing section sampling interval. Based on our empirical data, we provide such estimates for all progenitor populations investigated in this study. These can be used in future studies as guidelines to judge if the precision obtained with a sampling scheme is sufficient to detect statistically significant differences between experimental groups if a biological effect is present. Altogether, our study underlines the need to consider the SVZ of the lateral ventricle as a complex 3D structure and define methods to accurately assess neural stem cells or progenitor diversity and population sizes in physiological or experimental paradigms.
Exhausted CD8(+) T cells function poorly and are negatively regulated by inhibitory receptors. Transcriptional profiling has identified gene expression changes associated with exhaustion. However, the transcriptional pathways critical to the differences between exhausted and functional memory CD8(+) T cells are unclear. We thus defined transcriptional coexpression networks to define pathways centrally involved in exhaustion versus memory. These studies revealed differences between exhausted and memory CD8(+) T cells including the following: lack of coordinated transcriptional modules of quiescence during exhaustion, centrally connected hub genes, pathways such as transcription factors, genes involved in regulation of immune responses, and DNA repair genes, as well as differential connectivity for genes including T-bet, Eomes, and other transcription factors. These data identify pathways involved in CD8(+) T cell exhaustion, and highlight the context-dependent nature of transcription factors in exhaustion versus memory.
Preimplantation development culminates with the emergence of three distinct populations: the inner cell mass, primitive endoderm and trophectoderm. Here, we define the mechanisms underlying the requirement of Suds3 in pre/peri-implantation development. Suds3 knockdown blastocysts exhibit a failure of both trophectoderm proliferation as well as a conspicuous lack of primitive endoderm. Expression of essential lineage factors Nanog, Sox2, Cdx2, Eomes, Elf5 and Sox17 are severely reduced in the absence of Suds3. Importantly, we document deficient FGF4/ERK signaling and show that exogenous FGF4 rescues primitive endoderm formation and trophectoderm proliferation in Suds3 knockdown blastocysts. We also show that Hdac1 knockdown reduces Sox2/FGF4/ERK signaling in blastocysts. Collectively, these data define a role for Suds3 in activation of FGF4/ERK signaling and determine an essential molecular role of Suds3/Sin3/HDAC complexes in lineage specification in vivo.
BACKGROUND: Non muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) has the highest recurrence rate of any malignancy and as many as 70% of patients experience relapse. Aberrant DNA methylation is present in all bladder tumors and can be detected in urine specimens. Previous studies have identified DNA methylation markers that showed significant diagnostic value. We evaluated the significance of the biomarkers for early detection of tumor recurrence in urine.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The methylation levels of EOMES, HOXA9, POU4F2, TWIST1, VIM, and ZNF154 in urine specimens were measured by real-time PCR (MethyLight). We analyzed 390 urine sediments from 184 patients diagnosed with NMIBC. Urine from 35 age-matched control individuals was used to determine the methylation baseline levels. Recurrence was diagnosed by cystoscopy and verified by histology. Initially, we compared urine from bladder cancer patients and healthy individuals and detected significant hypermethylation of all six markers (P<0.0001) achieving sensitivity in the range 82%-89% and specificity in the range 94%-100%. Following, we validated the urinary hypermethylation for use in recurrence surveillance and found sensitivities of 88-94% and specificities of 43-67%. EOMES, POU4F2, VIM and ZNF154 were more frequently methylated in urine from patients with higher grade tumors (P ≤ 0.08). Univariate Cox regression analysis showed that five markers were significantly associated with disease recurrence; HOXA9 (HR=7.8, P=0.006), POU4F2 (HR=8.5, P=0.001), TWIST1 (HR=12.0, P=0.015), VIM (HR=8.0, P=0.001), and ZNF154 (HR=13.9, P<0.001). Interestingly, for one group of patients (n=15) we found that hypermethylation was consistently present in the urine samples despite the lack of tumor recurrences, indicating the presence of a field defect.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Methylation levels of EOMES, HOXA9, POU4F2, TWIST1, VIM, and ZNF154 in urine specimens are promising diagnostic biomarkers for bladder cancer recurrence surveillance.
CD8(+) T-cell development in the thymus generates a predominant population of conventional naive cells, along with minor populations of "innate" T cells that resemble memory cells. Recent studies analyzing a variety of KO or knock-in mice have indicated that impairments in the T-cell receptor (TCR) signaling pathway produce increased numbers of innate CD8(+) T cells, characterized by their high expression of CD44, CD122, CXCR3, and the transcription factor, Eomesodermin (Eomes). One component of this altered development is a non-CD8(+) T cell-intrinsic role for IL-4. To determine whether reduced TCR signaling within the CD8(+) T cells might also contribute to this pathway, we investigated the role of the transcription factor, IFN regulatory factor 4 (IRF4). IRF4 is up-regulated following TCR stimulation in WT T cells; further, this up-regulation is impaired in T cells treated with a small-molecule inhibitor of the Tec family tyrosine kinase, IL-2 inducible T-cell kinase (ITK). In contrast to WT cells, activation of IRF4-deficient CD8(+) T cells leads to rapid and robust expression of Eomes, which is further enhanced by IL-4 stimulation. In addition, inhibition of ITK together with IL-4 increases Eomeso up-regulation. These data indicate that ITK signaling promotes IRF4 up-regulation following CD8(+) T-cell activation and that this signaling pathway normally suppresses Eomes expression, thereby regulating the differentiation pathway of CD8(+) T cells.
While the need for CD4 T cells in the generation of CD8 T cell memory has been well documented, the mechanism underlying their requirement remains unknown. Here, we detail an immunization method capable of generating CD8 memory T cells that are indifferent to CD4 T cell help. Using a subunit vaccination that combines polyIC and an agonistic CD40 antibody, we program protective CD4-independent CD8 T cell memory. When cells generated by combined polyIC/CD40 immunization are compared to cells produced following a CD4-dependent vaccination, Listeria monocytogenes, they display dramatic differences, both phenotypically and functionally. The memory cells generated in a CD4-deficient host by polyIC/CD40 immunization provide protection against secondary infectious challenge, whereas cells generated by LM immunization in the same environment do not. Interestingly, combined polyIC/CD40 immunization generates long-term memory cells with low Blimp-1 and elevated Eomes expression despite high expression of Blimp-1 during the primary response. The potency of combined polyIC/CD40 to elicit CD8+ T cell memory in the absence of CD4 T cells suggests that it could be considered as a vaccine adjuvant in clinical situations where CD4 responses/numbers are compromised.
T-box transcription factors T-bet (Tbx21) and Eomesodermin (Eomes) are critical players in CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocyte effector function and differentiation, but how the expression of these transcription factors is regulated remains poorly defined. Here we show that dominant T cells directed toward human CMV, expressing significantly higher levels of T-bet with graded loss of Eomes expression (T-bet(hi)Eomes(hi/lo)), are more efficient in recognizing endogenously processed peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (pMHC) compared with subdominant virus-specific T cells expressing lower levels of T-bet and high levels of Eomes (T-bet(int)Eomes(hi)). Paradoxically, the T-bet(hi)Eomes(hi/lo) dominant populations that efficiently recognized endogenous antigen demonstrated lower intrinsic avidity for pMHC, whereas T-bet(int)Eomes(hi) subdominant populations were characterized by higher pMHC avidity and less efficient recognition of virus-infected cells. Importantly, differential endogenous viral antigen recognition by CMV-specific CD8(+) T cells also correlated with the differentiation status and expression of perforin, granzyme B and K. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the expression of T-bet correlates with clonal expansion, differentiation status, and expression of perforin, granzyme B and K in antigen-specific T cells. These findings illustrate how endogenous viral antigen presentation during persistent viral infection may influence the transcriptional program of virus-specific T cells and their functional profile in the peripheral blood of humans.
BACKGROUND: Parthenogenetic mammalian embryos were reported to die in utero no later than the 25-somite stage due to abnormal development of both embryonic and extraembryonic lineages. Interestingly, it has been shown that parthenogenetic ICM cells tend to differentiate more into primitive endoderm cells and less into epiblast and ES cells. Hence we are interested in studying the molecular mechanisms underlying lineage defects of parthenotes.RESULTS: We found that parthenote inner cell masses (ICMs) contained decreased numbers of Sox2(+) /Nanog(+) epiblast cells but increased numbers of Gata4(+) primitive endoderm cells, indicating an unusual lineage segregation. We demonstrate for the first time that the increased Gata4 level in parthenotes may be explained by the strong up-regulation of Fgf3 and Fgfr2 phosphorylation. Inhibition of Fgfr2 activation by SU5402 in parthenotes restored normal Nanog and Gata4 levels without affecting Fgf3, indicating that Fgf3 is upstream of Fgfr2 activation. In parthenote trophectoderm, we detected normal Cdx2 but ectopic Gata4 expression and reduced Elf5 and Tbr2(Eomes) levels.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our work provides for the first time the insight into the molecular mechanisms of the developmental defects of parthenogenetic embryos in both the trophectoderm and ICM.
Tissue resident memory (Trm) CD8 T cells represent a newly described memory T cell population. We have previously characterized a population of Trm cells that persists within the brain after acute virus infection. Although capable of providing marked protection against a subsequent local challenge, brain Trm cells do not undergo recall expansion after dissociation from the tissue. Furthermore, these Trm cells do not depend on the same survival factors as the circulating memory T cell pool as assessed either in vivo or in vitro. To gain greater insight into this population of cells, we compared the gene expression profiles of Trm cells isolated from the brain with those of circulating memory T cells isolated from the spleen after an acute virus infection. Trm cells displayed altered expression of genes involved in chemotaxis, expressed a distinct set of transcription factors, and overexpressed several inhibitory receptors. Cumulatively, these data indicate that Trm cells are a distinct memory T cell population disconnected from the circulating memory T cell pool and display a unique molecular signature that likely results in optimal survival and function within their local environment.
BACKGROUND: Cortical neurons display dynamic patterns of gene expression during the coincident processes of differentiation and migration through the developing cerebrum. To identify genes selectively expressed by the Eomes + (Tbr2) lineage of excitatory cortical neurons, GFP-expressing cells from Tg(Eomes::eGFP) Gsat embryos were isolated to > 99% purity and profiled.RESULTS: We report the identification, validation and spatial grouping of genes selectively expressed within the Eomes + cortical excitatory neuron lineage during early cortical development. In these neurons 475 genes were expressed ≥ 3-fold, and 534 genes ≤ 3-fold, compared to the reference population of neuronal precursors. Of the up-regulated genes, 328 were represented at the Genepaint in situ hybridization database and 317 (97%) were validated as having spatial expression patterns consistent with the lineage of differentiating excitatory neurons. A novel approach for quantifying in situ hybridization patterns (QISP) across the cerebral wall was developed that allowed the hierarchical clustering of genes into putative co-regulated groups. Forty four candidate genes were identified that show spatial expression with Intermediate Precursor Cells, 49 candidate genes show spatial expression with Multipolar Neurons, while the remaining 224 genes achieved peak expression in the developing cortical plate.CONCLUSIONS: This analysis of differentiating excitatory neurons revealed the expression patterns of 37 transcription factors, many chemotropic signaling molecules (including the Semaphorin, Netrin and Slit signaling pathways), and unexpected evidence for non-canonical neurotransmitter signaling and changes in mechanisms of glucose metabolism. Over half of the 317 identified genes are associated with neuronal disease making these findings a valuable resource for studies of neurological development and disease.
Medulloblastoma is an aggressively growing tumour, arising in the cerebellum or medulla/brain stem. It is the most common malignant brain tumour in children, and shows tremendous biological and clinical heterogeneity. Despite recent treatment advances, approximately 40% of children experience tumour recurrence, and 30% will die from their disease. Those who survive often have a significantly reduced quality of life. Four tumour subgroups with distinct clinical, biological and genetic profiles are currently identified. WNT tumours, showing activated wingless pathway signalling, carry a favourable prognosis under current treatment regimens. SHH tumours show hedgehog pathway activation, and have an intermediate prognosis. Group 3 and 4 tumours are molecularly less well characterized, and also present the greatest clinical challenges. The full repertoire of genetic events driving this distinction, however, remains unclear. Here we describe an integrative deep-sequencing analysis of 125 tumour-normal pairs, conducted as part of the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) PedBrain Tumor Project. Tetraploidy was identified as a frequent early event in Group 3 and 4 tumours, and a positive correlation between patient age and mutation rate was observed. Several recurrent mutations were identified, both in known medulloblastoma-related genes (CTNNB1, PTCH1, MLL2, SMARCA4) and in genes not previously linked to this tumour (DDX3X, CTDNEP1, KDM6A, TBR1), often in subgroup-specific patterns. RNA sequencing confirmed these alterations, and revealed the expression of what are, to our knowledge, the first medulloblastoma fusion genes identified. Chromatin modifiers were frequently altered across all subgroups. These findings enhance our understanding of the genomic complexity and heterogeneity underlying medulloblastoma, and provide several potential targets for new therapeutics, especially for Group 3 and 4 patients.
Signal 3 cytokines, such as IL-12 or type I IFN, support expansion and differentiation of CD8 T cells in vivo. If and how these two signal 3 cytokines compensate each other in T cell activation during different infections is so far unknown. Using CD8 T cells lacking receptors for IL-12, type I IFN or both, we show that the expansion of CD8 T cells depends on type I IFN (LCMV infection), type I IFN and IL-12 (Listeria and vesicular stomatitis virus infection) or is largely independent of the two cytokines (vaccinia virus infection). Furthermore, we show that CD8 T cells lacking IL-12 and type I IFN signals are impaired in cytokine production and cytolytic activity in the context of VSV and Listeria infection. These effector CD8 T cells fail to express KLRG1, thereby exhibiting a memory-like phenotype which correlated with lower expression of the transcription factor T-bet and higher expression of Eomes. This indicates that the variable interplay of both signal 3 cytokines is mandatory for cell fate decision of CD8 T cells in the context of different infections. Furthermore our results demonstrate that the pathogen-induced overall inflammatory milieu and not the antigen load and/or the quality of antigen presentation critically determine the signal 3 dependence of CD8 T cells.
BACKGROUND: Ipilimumab induces long-lasting clinical responses in a minority of patients with metastatic melanoma. To better understand the mechanism(s) of action and to identify novel biomarkers associated with the clinical benefit and toxicity of ipilimumab, baseline characteristics and changes in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells from melanoma patients receiving ipilimumab were characterized by gene profiling and flow cytometry.METHODS: Microarray analysis of flow-cytometry purified CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells was employed to assess gene profiling changes induced by ipilimumab. Selected molecules were further investigated by flow cytometry on pre, 3-month and 6-month post-treatment specimens.RESULTS: Ipilimumab up-regulated Ki67 and ICOS on CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells at both 3- and 6-month post ipilimumab (p ≤ 0.001), decreased CCR7 and CD25 on CD8(+) at 3-month post ipilimumab (p ≤ 0.02), and increased Gata3 in CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells at 6-month post ipilimumab (p ≤ 0.001). Increased EOMES(+)CD8(+), GranzymeB(+)EOMES(+)CD8(+) and decreased Ki67(+)EOMES(+)CD4(+) T cells at 6 months were significantly associated with relapse (all p ≤ 0.03). Decreased Ki67(+)CD8(+) T cells were significantly associated with the development of irAE (p = 0.02). At baseline, low Ki67(+)EOMES(+)CD8(+) T cells were associated with relapse (p ≤ 0.001), and low Ki67(+)EOMES(+)CD4(+) T cells were associated with irAE (p ≤ 0.008).CONCLUSIONS: Up-regulation of proliferation and activation signals in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells were pharmacodynamic markers for ipilimumab. Ki67(+)EOMES(+)CD8(+) and Ki67(+)EOMES(+)CD4(+)T cells at baseline merit further testing as biomarkers associated with outcome and irAEs, respectively.
Erratum in    J Neurosci. 2012 Sep 26;32(39):13639. Mao, Chai-An [added]; Klein, William H [added].
Phenotypic and functional cell properties are usually analyzed at the level of defined cell populations but not single cells. Yet, large differences between individual cells may have important functional consequences. It is likely that T-cell-mediated immunity depends on the polyfunctionality of individual T cells, rather than the sum of functions of responding T-cell subpopulations. We performed highly sensitive single-cell gene expression profiling, allowing the direct ex vivo characterization of individual virus-specific and tumor-specific T cells from healthy donors and melanoma patients. We have previously shown that vaccination with the natural tumor peptide Melan-A-induced T cells with superior effector functions as compared with vaccination with the analog peptide optimized for enhanced HLA-A*0201 binding. Here we found that natural peptide vaccination induced tumor-reactive CD8 T cells with frequent coexpression of both memory/homing-associated genes (CD27, IL7R, EOMES, CXCR3, and CCR5) and effector-related genes (IFNG, KLRD1, PRF1, and GZMB), comparable with protective Epstein-Barr virus-specific and cytomegalovirus-specific T cells. In contrast, memory/homing-associated and effector-associated genes were less frequently coexpressed after vaccination with the analog peptide. Remarkably, these findings reveal a previously unknown level of gene expression diversity among vaccine-specific and virus-specific T cells with the simultaneous coexpression of multiple memory/homing-related and effector-related genes by the same cell. Such broad functional gene expression signatures within antigen-specific T cells may be critical for mounting efficient responses to pathogens or tumors. In summary, direct ex vivo high-resolution molecular characterization of individual T cells provides key insights into the processes shaping the functional properties of tumor-specific and virus-specific T cells.
BACKGROUND: Dynamic changes to the epigenome play a critical role in establishing and maintaining cellular phenotype during differentiation, but little is known about the normal methylomic differences that occur between functionally distinct areas of the brain. We characterized intra- and inter-individual methylomic variation across whole blood and multiple regions of the brain from multiple donors.RESULTS: Distinct tissue-specific patterns of DNA methylation were identified, with a highly significant over-representation of tissue-specific differentially methylated regions (TS-DMRs) observed at intragenic CpG islands and low CG density promoters. A large proportion of TS-DMRs were located near genes that are differentially expressed across brain regions. TS-DMRs were significantly enriched near genes involved in functional pathways related to neurodevelopment and neuronal differentiation, including BDNF, BMP4, CACNA1A, CACA1AF, EOMES, NGFR, NUMBL, PCDH9, SLIT1, SLITRK1 and SHANK3. Although between-tissue variation in DNA methylation was found to greatly exceed between-individual differences within any one tissue, we found that some inter-individual variation was reflected across brain and blood, indicating that peripheral tissues may have some utility in epidemiological studies of complex neurobiological phenotypes.CONCLUSIONS: This study reinforces the importance of DNA methylation in regulating cellular phenotype across tissues, and highlights genomic patterns of epigenetic variation across functionally distinct regions of the brain, providing a resource for the epigenetics and neuroscience research communities.
Cytoskeleton-associated proteins play key roles not only in regulating cell morphology and migration but also in proliferation. Mutations in the cytoskeleton-associated gene filamin A (FlnA) cause the human disorder periventricular heterotopia (PH). PH is a disorder of neural stem cell development that is characterized by disruption of progenitors along the ventricular epithelium and subsequent formation of ectopic neuronal nodules. FlnA-dependent regulation of cytoskeletal dynamics is thought to direct neural progenitor migration and proliferation. Here we show that embryonic FlnA-null mice exhibited a reduction in brain size and decline in neural progenitor numbers over time. The drop in the progenitor population was not attributable to cell death or changes in premature differentiation, but to prolonged cell cycle duration. Suppression of FlnA led to prolongation of the entire cell cycle length, principally in M phase. FlnA loss impaired degradation of cyclin B1-related proteins, thereby delaying the onset and progression through mitosis. We found that the cdk1 kinase Wee1 bound FlnA, demonstrated increased expression levels after loss of FlnA function, and was associated with increased phosphorylation of cdk1. Phosphorylation of cdk1 inhibited activation of the anaphase promoting complex degradation system, which was responsible for cyclin B1 degradation and progression through mitosis. Collectively, our results demonstrate a molecular mechanism whereby FlnA loss impaired G2 to M phase entry, leading to cell cycle prolongation, compromised neural progenitor proliferation, and reduced brain size.
The nonphysiological placental oxidative environment has been implicated in many complications during human pregnancy. Oxygen tension can influence a broad spectrum of molecular changes leading to alterations in trophoblast cell lineage development. In this study, we report that mouse wild-type trophoblast stem cells (TSCs) react to low oxygen (3%) with an enhanced differentiation into the giant cell pathway, indicated by a downregulation of the early stem cell markers Eomes and Cdx2 as well as by a significant upregulation of Tfap2c and the differentiation markers Tpbpa and Prl3d1. Here we demonstrated that connexin 31/GJB3-deficient TSCs failed to stabilize HIF-1A under low oxygen, resulting in nonresponsiveness of different marker genes, such as Cdx2 and Eomes and Tfap2c and Tpbpa. Moreover, connexin 31-deficient TSCs revealed a shift in giant cell differentiation from Prl3d1 expressing parietal giant cells to Ctsq, Prl3b1, and Prl2c2-positive giant cells, probably sinusoidal and canal lining trophoblast giant cells. Thus, loss of connexin 31 led to different giant cell subtypes which bypass the progenitor regulators Tfap2c and Tpbpa under low oxygen conditions.
Neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus has been implicated in cognitive functions, including learning and memory, and may be abnormal in major neuropsychiatric disorders, such as depression. Dentate neurogenesis is regulated by interactions between extrinsic factors and intrinsic transcriptional cascades that are currently not well understood. Here we show that Tbr2 (also known as Eomes), a T-box transcription factor expressed by intermediate neuronal progenitors (INPs), is critically required for neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of developing and adult mice. In the absence of Tbr2, INPs are depleted despite augmented neural stem cell (NSC) proliferation, and neurogenesis is halted as the result of failed neuronal differentiation. Interestingly, we find that Tbr2 likely promotes lineage progression from NSC to neuronal-specified INP in part by repression of Sox2, a key determinant of NSC identity. These findings suggest that Tbr2 expression in INPs is critical for neuronal differentiation in the dentate gyrus and that INPs are an essential stage in the lineage from NSCs to new granule neurons in the dentate gyrus.
Natural killer (NK) cells are potent anti-viral and antitumor "first responders" endowed with natural cytotoxicity and cytokine production capabilities. To date, attempts to translate these promising biologic functions through the adoptive transfer of NK cells for the treatment of cancer have been of limited benefit. Here we trace the fate of adoptively transferred murine NK cells and make the surprising observation that NK cells traffic to tumor sites yet fail to control tumor growth or improve survival. This dysfunction is related to a rapid down-regulation of activating receptor expression and loss of important effector functions. Loss of interferon (IFN)γ production occurs early after transfer, whereas loss of cytotoxicity progresses with homeostatic proliferation and tumor exposure. The dysfunctional phenotype is accompanied by down-regulation of the transcription factors Eomesodermin and T-bet, and can be partially reversed by the forced overexpression of Eomesodermin. These results provide the first demonstration of NK-cell exhaustion and suggest that the NK-cell first-response capability is intrinsically limited. Further, novel approaches may be required to circumvent the described dysfunctional phenotype.
IL-4 plays an important role in the induction of Th2 and Th9 cells, as well as in the inhibition of Th1 cell generation. We show that a combination of IL-4 and TGF-β augments the development of Th1 cells that express CD103 (CD103(+) Th1 cells) if IFN-γ is present. The T-box-containing transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes) is preferentially expressed in CD103(+) Th1 cells and is involved in IFN-γ production. The induction of T-bet during early T cell activation is essential for the formation of the active chromatin at both the Eomes and IFN-γ gene loci. TGF-β is required for the induction of Eomes and CD103, as well as the inhibition of Th2 cytokine expression. In addition, IL-4 induces Eomes transcription through activation of the Stat6-signaling pathway. IFN-γ-producing CD103(+) Th1 cells are detected in the intraepithelial lymphocytes of normal mice, and their numbers significantly decrease in Tbet- and Stat6-deficient mice. To our knowledge, these results represent the first molecular mechanism of IL-4/TGF-β-dependent augmentation of Th1 cell generation and raise the possibility that IL-4 and TGF-β simultaneously enhance the Th1 cell-mediated immune responses under certain cytokine conditions.
Innate memory-like CD8 thymocytes develop and acquire effector function during maturation in the absence of encounter with Ags. In this study, we demonstrate that enhanced function of transcription factors T cell factor (TCF)-1 and β-catenin regulate the frequency of promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger (PLZF)-expressing, IL-4-producing thymocytes that promote the generation of eomesodermin-expressing memory-like CD8 thymocytes in trans. In contrast, TCF1-deficient mice do not have PLZF-expressing thymocytes and eomesodermin-expressing memory-like CD8 thymocytes. Generation of TCF1 and β-catenin-dependent memory-like CD8 thymocytes is non-cell-intrinsic and requires the expression of IL-4 and IL-4R. CD8 memory-like thymocytes migrate to the peripheral lymphoid organs, and the memory-like CD8 T cells rapidly produce IFN-γ. Thus, TCF1 and β-catenin regulate the generation of PLZF-expressing thymocytes and thereby facilitate the generation of memory-like CD8 T cells in the thymus.
CD8 T cells lose the capacity to control HIV infection, but the extent of the impairment of CD8 T-cell functions and the mechanisms that underlie it remain controversial. Here we report an extensive ex vivo analysis of HIV-specific CD8 T cells, covering the expression of 16 different molecules involved in CD8 function or differentiation. This approach gave remarkably homogeneous readouts in different donors and showed that CD8 dysfunction in chronic HIV infection was much more severe than described previously: some Ifng transcription was observed, but most cells lost the expression of all cytolytic molecules and Eomesodermin and T-bet by chronic infection. These results reveal a cellular mechanism explaining the dysfunction of CD8 T cells during chronic HIV infection, as CD8 T cells are known to maintain some functionality when either of these transcription factors is present, but to lose all cytotoxic activity when both are not expressed. Surprisingly, they also show that chronic HIV and lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infections have a very different impact on fundamental T-cell functions, "exhausted" lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus-specific cells losing the capacity to secrete IFN-γ but maintaining some cytotoxic activity as granzyme B and FasL are overexpressed and, while down-regulating T-bet, up-regulating Eomesodermin expression.
Expression of the four transcription factors Oct4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc (OSKM) is sufficient to reprogram somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem (iPSCs). However, this process is slow and inefficient compared with the fusion of somatic cells with embryonic stem cells (ESCs), indicating that ESCs express additional factors that can enhance the efficiency of reprogramming. We had previously developed a method to detect and isolate early neural induction intermediates during the differentiation of mouse ESCs. Using the gene expression profiles of these intermediates, we identified 23 ESC-specific transcripts and tested each for the ability to enhance iPSC formation. Of the tested factors, zinc finger protein 296 (Zfp296) led to the largest increase in mouse iPSC formation. We confirmed that Zfp296 was specifically expressed in pluripotent stem cells and germ cells. Zfp296 in combination with OSKM induced iPSC formation earlier and more efficiently than OSKM alone. Through mouse chimera and teratoma formation, we demonstrated that the resultant iPSCs were pluripotent. We showed that Zfp296 activates transcription of the Oct4 gene via the germ cell-specific conserved region 4 (CR4), and when overexpressed in mouse ESCs leads to upregulation of Nanog expression and downregulation of the expression of differentiation markers, including Sox17, Eomes, and T, which is consistent with the observation that Zfp296 enhances the efficiency of reprogramming. In contrast, knockdown of Zfp296 in ESCs leads to the expression of differentiation markers. Finally, we demonstrated that expression of Zfp296 in ESCs inhibits, but does not block, differentiation into neural cells.
During viral infection, CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) play a central role to eliminate viruses by destructing virus-infected cells utilizing two cytolytic pathways, i.e., perforin/granzyme pathway and FasL-Fas pathway. It has been shown that effector functions of CTL are critically controlled by two T-box transcription factors, T-bet and eomesodermin (Eomes), although their precise activities in constructing CTL functions are not fully understood. To investigate the functional potency and activities of Eomes, the effects of ectopic expression of Eomes in two terminally differentiated murine CD4(+) Th lines, on their effector functions were analyzed. The results showed that in Eomes-transfected Th hybridoma, cell surface FasL expression upon Con A stimulation was markedly enhanced, although perforin expression was not induced. In normal, non-transformed Th2 cells, introduction of Eomes elicited perforin expression, and also augmented FasL up-regulation. Interestingly, cyotlytic activity of Eomes-transfectant was more efficient than that of perforin-transfected Th2 cells which expressed high levels of perforin and granzyme B mRNA, indicating that Eomes may play additional roles other than preparation of these cytolytic effector molecules. In contrast, stimulation-induced CD154 up-regulation, one of the typical helper T cell characteristics, was repressed in Eomes-transfectant. Collectively, these results suggest that Eomes may not only be involved in perforin/granzyme expression but also play various functions, including FasL up-regulation, to develop the characteristics of CD8(+) CTL. These studies have also suggested that introduction of Eomes alone was sufficient to convert the functions of fully differentiated Th cells toward those of CTL.
The transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) is involved in early embryonic patterning, but the range of cell fates that it controls as well as its mechanisms of action remain unclear. Here we show that transient expression of Eomes promotes cardiovascular fate during embryonic stem cell differentiation. Eomes also rapidly induces the expression of Mesp1, a key regulator of cardiovascular differentiation, and directly binds to regulatory sequences of Mesp1. Eomes effects are strikingly modulated by Activin signalling: high levels of Activin inhibit the promotion of cardiac mesoderm by Eomes, while they enhance Eomes-dependent endodermal specification. These results place Eomes upstream of the Mesp1-dependent programme of cardiogenesis, and at the intersection of mesodermal and endodermal specification, depending on the levels of Activin/Nodal signalling.
BACKGROUND: The progesterone-regulated glycoprotein glycodelin-A (GdA), secreted by the decidualized endometrium at high concentrations in primates, inhibits the maternal immune response against fetal antigens and thereby contributes to the tolerance of the semi-allogenic fetus during a normal pregnancy. Our earlier studies demonstrated the ability of GdA to induce an intrinsic apoptotic cascade in CD4(+) T-lymphocytes and suppress the cytolytic effector function of CD8(+) T-lymphocytes. In this report, we investigated further into the mechanism of action of GdA controlling perforin and granzyme B expression in CD8(+) T-lymphocytes and the mechanism of action of GdA leading to lymphocyte death.METHODS: Flow cytometry analysis was performed to check for the surface expression of interleukin-2 receptor α (IL-2Rα) and intracellular eomesodermin (Eomes) in activated T-lymphocytes, whereas quantitative RT-PCR analysis was used to find out their mRNA profile upon GdA treatment. Western analysis was carried out to confirm the protein level of Bax and Bcl-2.RESULTS: GdA reduces the surface expression of the high-affinity IL-2R complex by down-regulating the synthesis of IL-2Rα (CD25). This disturbs the optimal IL-2 signalling and decreases the Eomes expression, which along with IL-2 directly regulates perforin and granzymes expression. Consequently, the CD8(+) T-lymphocytes undergo growth arrest and are unable to mature into competent cytotoxic T-lymphocytes. In the CD4(+) T-lymphocytes, growth factor IL-2 deprivation leads to proliferation inhibition, decreased Bcl-2/enhanced Bax expression, culminating in mitochondrial stress and cell death.CONCLUSIONS: GdA spurs cell cycle arrest, loss of effector functions and apoptosis in different T-cell subsets by making T-lymphocytes unable to respond to IL-2.
Comment in    Immunity. 2012 Jan 27;36(1):1-3.    Nat Rev Immunol. 2012 Mar;12(3):150.
Erratum in    Ann Neurol. 2013 Apr;73(4):561.
The T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) has been implicated in patterning and morphogenesis in frog, fish and mouse. In zebrafish, one of the two Eomes homologs, Eomesa, has been implicated in dorsal-ventral patterning, epiboly and endoderm specification in experiments employing over-expression, dominant-negative constructs and antisense morpholino oligonucleotides. Here we report for the first time the identification and characterization of an Eomesa mutant generated by TILLING. We find that Eomesa has a strictly maternal role in the initiation of epiboly, which involves doming of the yolk cell up into the overlying blastoderm. By contrast, epiboly progression is normal, demonstrating for the first time that epiboly initiation is genetically separable from progression. The yolk cell microtubules, which are required for epiboly, are defective in maternal-zygotic eomesa mutant embryos. In addition, the deep cells of the blastoderm are more tightly packed and exhibit more bleb-like protrusions than cells in control embryos. We postulate that the doming delay may be the consequence both of overly stabilized yolk cell microtubules and defects in the adhesive properties or motility of deep cells. We also show that Eomesa is required for normal expression of the endoderm markers sox32, bon and og9x; however it is not essential for endoderm formation.
The morphogenesis of the hemochorial placenta is dependent upon the precise expansion and differentiation of trophoblast stem (TS) cells. SATB homeobox 1 (SATB1) and SATB2 are related proteins that have been implicated as regulators of some stem cell populations. SATB1 is highly expressed in TS cells, which prompted an investigation of SATB1 and the related SATB2 as regulators of TS cells. SATB1 and SATB2 were highly expressed in rat TS cells maintained in the stem state and rapidly declined following induction of differentiation. SATB proteins were also present within the rat placenta during early stages of its morphogenesis and disappeared as gestation advanced. Silencing Satb1 or Satb2 expression decreased TS cell self-renewal and increased differentiation, whereas ectopic expression of SATB proteins promoted TS cell expansion and blunted differentiation. Eomes, a key transcriptional regulator of TS cells, was identified as a target for SATB proteins. SATB knockdown decreased Eomes transcript levels and promoter activity, whereas SATB ectopic expression increased Eomes transcript levels and promoter activity. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay as well as chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses demonstrated that SATB proteins physically associate with a regulatory site within the Eomes promoter. We conclude that SATB proteins promote TS cell renewal and inhibit differentiation. These actions are mediated in part by regulating the expression of the TS cell stem-associated transcription factor, EOMES.
Comment in    Immunity. 2011 Nov 23;35(5):663-5.
The regulation of memory CD4(+) helper T (Th) cell function, such as polarized cytokine production, remains unclear. Here we show that memory T helper 2 (Th2) cells are divided into four subpopulations by CD62L and CXCR3 expression. All four subpopulations produced interleukin-4 (IL-4) and IL-13, whereas only the CD62L(lo)CXCR3(lo) population produced IL-5 accompanied by increased H3-K4 methylation at the Il5 gene locus. The transcription factor Eomesodermin (encoded by Eomes) was highly expressed in memory Th2 cells, whereas its expression was selectively downregulated in the IL-5-producing cells. Il5 expression was enhanced in Eomes-deficient cells, and Eomesodermin was shown to interact with the transcription factor GATA3, preventing GATA3 binding to the Il5 promoter. Memory Th2 cell-dependent airway inflammation was attenuated in the absence of the CD62L(lo)CXCR3(lo) population but was enhanced by Eomes-deficient memory Th2 cells. Thus, IL-5 production in memory Th2 cells is regulated by Eomesodermin via the inhibition of GATA3 activity.
Delamination of neural progenitors from the apical adherens junction belt of the neuroepithelium is a hallmark of cerebral cortex development and evolution. Specific cell biological processes preceding this delamination are largely unknown. Here, we identify a novel, pre-delamination state of neuroepithelial cells in mouse embryonic neocortex. Specifically, in a subpopulation of neuroepithelial cells that, like all others, exhibit apical-basal polarity and apical adherens junctions, the re-establishing of the primary cilium after mitosis occurs at the basolateral rather than the apical plasma membrane. Neuroepithelial cells carrying basolateral primary cilia appear at the onset of cortical neurogenesis, increase in abundance with its progression, selectively express the basal (intermediate) progenitor marker Tbr2, and eventually delaminate from the apical adherens junction belt to become basal progenitors, translocating their nucleus from the ventricular to the subventricular zone. Overexpression of insulinoma-associated 1, a transcription factor known to promote the generation of basal progenitors, increases the proportion of basolateral cilia. Basolateral cilia in cells delaminating from the apical adherens junction belt are preferentially found near spot-like adherens junctions, suggesting that the latter provide positional cues to basolateral ciliogenesis. We conclude that re-establishing a basolateral primary cilium constitutes the first known cell biological feature preceding neural progenitor delamination.
Previous studies have shown that neuron-specific deletion of serum response factor (SRF) results in deficits in tangential cell migration, guidance-dependent circuit assembly, activity-dependent gene expression, and synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. Furthermore, SRF deletion in mouse embryonic stem cells causes cell death in vitro. However, the requirement of SRF for early neuronal development including neural stem cell homeostasis, neurogenesis, and axonal innervations remains unknown. Here, we report that SRF is critical for development of major axonal tracts in the forebrain. Conditional mutant mice lacking SRF in neural progenitor cells (Srf-Nestin-cKO) exhibit striking deficits in cortical axonal projections including corticostriatal, corticospinal, and corticothalamic tracts, and they show a variable loss of the corpus callosum. Neurogenesis and interneuron specification occur normally in the absence of SRF and the deficits in axonal projections were not due to a decrease or loss in cell numbers. Radial migration of neurons and neocortical lamination were also not affected. No aberrant cell death was observed during development, whereas there was an increase in the number of proliferative cells in the ventricular zone from embryonic day 14 to day 18. Similar axonal tract deficits were also observed in mutant mice lacking SRF in the developing excitatory neurons of neocortex and hippocampus (Srf-NEX-cKO). Together, these findings suggest distinct roles for SRF during neuronal development; SRF is specifically required in a cell-autonomous manner for axonal tract development but is dispensable for cell survival, neurogenesis, neocortical lamination, and neuronal differentiation.
In this study, we describe a new population of NK cells that reside in the normal, uninflamed peritoneal cavity. Phenotypically, they share some similarities with the small population of CD49b(-), CD27(+) immature splenic NK cells, as well as liver NK cells, but they differ in their expression of CD62L, TRAIL, and EOMES. Functionally, the peritoneal NK cells resemble the immature splenic NK cells in their production of IFN-γ, GM-CSF, and TNF-α and in the killing of YAC-1 target cells. We also found that the peritoneum induces different behavior in mature and immature splenic NK cells. When transferred i.v. into RAGγc knockout mice, both populations undergo homeostatic proliferation in the spleen, but only the immature splenic NK cells are able to reach the peritoneum. When transferred directly into the peritoneum, the mature NK cells survive but do not divide, whereas the immature NK cells proliferate profusely. These data suggest that the peritoneum is not only home to a new subset of tissue-resident NK cells, but that it differentially regulates the migration and homeostatic proliferation of immature versus mature NK cells.
CD8+ T cell synthesis of IFN-γ is an important component of the CD8+ T cell immune response. In short-term cultures of murine pan-T cells, we found that IL-4 was the principal cytokine responsible for driving IFN-γ synthesis by CD3/CD28-activated CD8+ T cells. IL-4 was able to induce low levels of IFN-γ mRNA in CD8+ T cells even in the absence of CD3/CD28 engagement, although concomitant CD3/CD28 stimulation was necessary for IFN-γ secretion. IL-4 induction of IFN-γ was explained by its ability to induce Eomesodermin and T-bet transcription factors whose expression was further increased by CD3/CD28. Expression of Eomesodermin, T-bet and IFN-γ induced by IL-4 was partially dependent upon activation of MAPK and PI3K but independent of the canonical IL-4-activated transcription factor, STAT6. In contrast, expression of IFN-γ induced by IL-4/CD3/CD28 stimulation showed additional dependency upon STAT6 which functions to increase expression of Eomesodermin specifically. These novel findings point to a function for IL-4 as a direct regulator of IFN-γ expression in CD8+ T cells and reveal the molecular mechanisms involved.
The processes regulating cortical surface area expansion during development and evolution are unknown. We show that loss of function of all fibroblast growth factor receptors (FgfRs) expressed at the earliest stages of cortical development causes severe deficits in surface area growth by embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5) in the mouse. In FgfR mutants, accelerated production of neurons led to severe loss of radial progenitors and premature termination of neurogenesis. Nevertheless, these mutants showed remarkably little change in cortical layer structure. Birth-dating experiments indicated that a greater proportion of layer fates was generated during early neurogenic stages, revealing that FgfR activity normally slows the temporal progression of cortical layer fates. Electroporation of a dominant-negative FgfR at E11.5 increased cortical neurogenesis in normal mice--an effect that was blocked by simultaneous activation of the Notch pathway. Together with changes in the expression of Notch pathway genes in FgfR mutant embryos, these findings indicate that Notch lies downstream of FgfR signaling in the same pathway regulating cortical neurogenesis and begin to establish a mechanism for regulating cortical surface expansion.
We identified a two-branch consanguineous family in which four affected members (three females and one male) presented with constitutive growth delay, severe psychomotor retardation, microcephaly, cerebellar hypoplasia, and second-degree heart block. They also shared distinct facial features and similar appearance of their hands and feet. Childhood-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus developed in one affected child around the age of 9 years. Molecular analysis excluded mutations in potentially related genes such as PTF1A, EIF2AK3, EOMES, and WDR62. This condition appears to be unique of other known conditions, suggesting a unique clinical entity of autosomal recessive mode of inheritance.
Prenatal cocaine exposure impairs brain development and produces lasting alterations in cognitive function. In a prenatal cocaine exposure mouse model, we found that tangential migration of GABA neurons from the basal to the dorsal forebrain and radial neuron migration within the dorsal forebrain were significantly decreased during the embryonic period. The decrease in the tangential migration occurred early in gestation and normalized by late gestation, despite ongoing cocaine exposure. The decrease in radial migration was associated with altered laminar positioning of neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex. The cocaine exposure led to transient decreases in the expression of Tbr2 and Tbr1, transcription factors associated with intermediate progenitor cells and newborn neurons of the dorsal forebrain, respectively, although neurogenesis was not significantly altered. Since cocaine can modulate brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the mature brain, we examined whether cocaine can alter BDNF expression in the embryonic brain. We found a transient decrease in BDNF protein expression in the cocaine-exposed embryonic forebrain early in gestation. By late gestation, the BDNF expression recovered to control levels, despite ongoing cocaine exposure. In basal forebrain explants from cocaine-exposed embryos, cell migration was significantly decreased, corroborating the in vivo data on tangential GABA neuron migration. Since BDNF can influence tangential neuronal migration, we added BDNF to the culture medium and observed increased cell migration. Our data suggest that cocaine can alter tangential and radial neuronal migration as well as BDNF expression in the embryonic brain and that decreased BDNF may mediate cocaine's effects on neuronal migration.
Cytotoxic CD4 Th1 cells are emerging as a therapeutically useful T cell lineage that can effectively target tumors, but until now the pathways that govern their differentiation have been poorly understood. We demonstrate that CD134 (OX40) costimulation programs naive self- and virus-reactive CD4 T cells to undergo in vivo differentiation into cytotoxic Th1 effectors. CD137 (4-1BB) costimulation maximized clonal expansion, and IL-2 was necessary for cytotoxic Th1 differentiation. Importantly, the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin was critical for inducing the cytotoxic marker granzyme B. CD134 plus CD137 dual costimulation also imprinted a cytotoxic phenotype on bystanding CD4 T cells. Thus, to our knowledge, the current study identifies for the first time a specific costimulatory pathway and an intracellular mechanism relying on Eomesodermin that induces both Ag-specific and bystander cytotoxic CD4 Th1 cells. This mechanism might be therapeutically useful because CD134 plus CD137 dual costimulation induced CD4 T cell-dependent tumoricidal function in a mouse melanoma model.
The molecular events leading to human embryonic stem cell (hESC) differentiation are the subject of considerable scrutiny. Here, we characterize an in vitro model that permits analysis of the earliest steps in the transition of hESC colonies to squamous epithelium on basic fibroblast growth factor withdrawal. A set of markers (GSC, CK18, Gata4, Eomes, and Sox17) point to a mesendodermal nature of the epithelial cells with subsequent commitment to definitive endoderm (Sox17, Cdx2, nestin, and Islet1). We assayed alterations in the transcriptome in parallel with the distribution of immunohistochemical markers. Our results indicate that the alterations of tight junctions in pluripotent culture precede the beginning of differentiation. We defined this cell population as "specified," as it is committed toward differentiation. The transitional zone between "specified" pluripotent and differentiated cells displays significant up-regulation of keratin-18 (CK18) along with a decrease in the functional activity of gap junctions and the down-regulation of 2 gap junction proteins, connexin 43 (Cx43) and connexin 45 (Cx45), which is coincidental with substantial elevation of intracellular Ca2+ levels. These findings reveal a set of cellular changes that may represent the earliest markers of in vitro hESC transition to an epithelial phenotype, before the induction of gene expression networks that guide hESC differentiation. Moreover, we hypothesize that these events may be common during the primary steps of hESC commitment to functionally varied epithelial tissue derivatives of different embryological origins.
Innate CD8 T cells are found in mutant mouse models, but whether they are produced in a normal thymus remains controversial. Using the RAG2p-GFP mouse model, we found that ∼10% of TCRαβ(+) CD4(-)CD8(+) thymocytes were innate polyclonal T cells (GFP(+)CD44(hi)). Relative to conventional T cells, innate CD8 thymocytes displayed increased cell surface amounts of B7-H1, CD2, CD5, CD38, IL-2Rβ, and IL-4Rα and downmodulation of TCRβ. Moreover, they overexpressed several transcripts, including T-bet, Id3, Klf2, and, most of all, Eomes. Innate CD8 thymocytes were positively selected, mainly by nonhematopoietic MHCIa(+) cells. They rapidly produced high levels of IFN-γ upon stimulation and readily proliferated in response to IL-2 and IL-4. Furthermore, low numbers of innate CD8 thymocytes were sufficient to help conventional CD8 T cells expand and secrete cytokine following Ag recognition. This helper effect depended on CD44-mediated interactions between innate and conventional CD8 T cells. We concluded that innate TCRαβ(+) CD8 T cells represent a sizeable proportion of normal thymocytes whose development and function differ in many ways from those of conventional CD8 T cells.
Instructive programmes guiding cell-fate decisions in the developing mouse embryo are controlled by a few so-termed master regulators. Genetic studies demonstrate that the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes) is essential for epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, mesoderm migration and specification of definitive endoderm during gastrulation. Here we report that Eomes expression within the primitive streak marks the earliest cardiac mesoderm and promotes formation of cardiovascular progenitors by directly activating the bHLH (basic-helix-loop-helix) transcription factor gene Mesp1 upstream of the core cardiac transcriptional machinery. In marked contrast to Eomes/Nodal signalling interactions that cooperatively regulate anterior-posterior axis patterning and allocation of the definitive endoderm cell lineage, formation of cardiac progenitors requires only low levels of Nodal activity accomplished through a Foxh1/Smad4-independent mechanism. Collectively, our experiments demonstrate that Eomes governs discrete context-dependent transcriptional programmes that sequentially specify cardiac and definitive endoderm progenitors during gastrulation.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2011 Sep;11(9):573.    Immunotherapy. 2011 Nov;3(11):1291-2.
PURPOSE: Epigenetic alterations are common and can now be addressed in a parallel fashion. We investigated the methylation in bladder cancer with respect to location in genome, consistency, variation in metachronous tumors, impact on transcripts, chromosomal location, and usefulness as urinary markers.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A microarray assay was utilized to analyze methylation in 56 samples. Independent validation was conducted in 63 samples by a PCR-based method and bisulfite sequencing. The methylation levels in 174 urine specimens were quantified. Transcript levels were analyzed using expression microarrays and pathways were analyzed using dedicated software.RESULTS: Global methylation patterns were established within and outside CpG islands. We validated methylation of the eight tumor markers genes ZNF154 (P < 0.0001), HOXA9 (P < 0.0001), POU4F2 (P < 0.0001), EOMES (P = 0.0005), ACOT11 (P = 0.0001), PCDHGA12 (P = 0.0001), CA3 (P = 0.0002), and PTGDR (P = 0.0110), the candidate marker of disease progression TBX4 (P < 0.04), and other genes with stage-specific methylation. The methylation of metachronous tumors was stable and targeted to certain pathways. The correlation to expression was not stringent. Chromosome 21 showed most differential methylation (P < 0.0001) and specifically hypomethylation of keratins, which together with keratin-like proteins were epigenetically regulated. In DNA from voided urine, we detected differential methylation of ZNF154 (P < 0.0001), POU4F2 (P < 0.0001), HOXA9 (P < 0.0001), and EOMES (P < 0.0001), achieving 84% sensitivity and 96% specificity.CONCLUSIONS: We initiated a detailed mapping of the methylome in metachronous bladder cancer. Novel genes with tumor, chromosome, as well as pathway-specific differential methylation in bladder cancer were identified. The methylated genes were promising cancer markers for early detection of bladder cancer.
The cis-acting elements that regulate Eomes transcription during embryonic development are largely unknown. Here we identify a conserved cis-acting region (EoIV) located ~20kb upstream of the Eomes coding region that faithfully drives reporter expression to sites of Eomes expression during gastrulation. Transgenic EoIV-hsp68-GFP expression was evident in the epiblast of early-streak stage mouse embryos at the site where the primitive streak is initiated. At the mid- and late-streak stages, EoIV-hsp68-GFP expression was found in the streak, node region and definitive endoderm with a particular intensive GFP expression in the node region. At the early head fold stage, GFP was expressed in the node region and the surrounding endoderm. In contrast to earlier reports of Eomes mRNA expression, we confirmed Eomes protein expression in the node of early head fold embryos by immunohistochemistry. In vitro, EoIV-hsp68-GFP expression was activated ES cells differentiating into primitive streak-like progeny in response to Bmp and activin treatment.
Erratum in    J Neurosci. 2011 Sep 21;31(38):13695.
Tumorigenesis can induce adaptive T-cell-mediated immune responses against malignant cells. Such cellular immune responses are actively suppressed by cancer cells via mechanisms of immune tolerance. We studied T-cell responses against tumor growth by examining tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in upper gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. The number of T-bet(+) TILs correlates with better survival of esophageal cancer patients. Using well-defined mouse models, we have further shown that T-bet and Eomes are both required for the adaptive anti-tumor immunity by regulating T-cell trafficking into the tumor tissue and their effector functions inside the tumor microenvironment. In order to gain further insight into the tumor immune microenvironment in the upper GI cancer, we have also studied expression levels of co-inhibitory molecules such as B7-H1/PD-L1 and B7-H4 in tissue specimens of esophageal and gastric cancers. These inhibitory B7 molecules were expressed at high but variable levels by cancer cells. The overexpression of these molecules correlates with poor clinicopathological parameters and shorter patient survival time. The number of CD3(+) and CD8(+) TILs correlates inversely with expression levels of B7-H4 in samples from esophageal cancer, supporting a role of active immune suppression by inhibitory B7 molecules in the tumor microenvironment. In addition, TILs show functional exhaustion and express high levels of PD-1 and Tim-3. We propose that metabolic competition mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3Ks) characterizes the immune suppression within cancer tissues. Future tumor vaccine design should combine blockade of B7 inhibitory molecules and enhancement of T-bet and Eomes levels within the tumor microenvironment.
Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a transcription factor essential for trophoblast development. Stress stimuli activate stress-activated protein kinase (MAPK8/9) and modulate transcription factors in trophoblast stem cells (TSC). In this study, we test the hypothesis that stress-induced Eomes upregulation and downstream trophoblast development are MAPK8/9-dependent. Immunocytochemical and immunoblot assays suggest that Eomes is induced by hyperosmolar stress in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Two MAPK8/9 inhibitors that work by different mechanisms, LJNKl1 and SP600125, block induction of Eomes protein by stress. During normal TSC differentiation, the transcription factor heart and neural crest derivatives expressed 1 (HAND1) is dependent on Eomes, and chorionic somatomammotropin hormone 1 (CSH1) expression is dependent on HAND1. Similar to Eomes, HAND1 and CSH1 induction by stress are MAPK8/9-dependent, and CSH1 is induced in nearly all stressed TSC. CSH1 induction normally requires downregulation of the transcription factor inhibitor of differentiation 2 (ID2) as well as HAND1 upregulation. It was shown previously that hyperosmolar stress induces AMP-activated protein kinase (PRKAA1/2)-dependent ID2 loss in a MAPK8/9-independent manner. Inhibition of PRKAA1/2 with compound C and LJNKl1, more than MAPK8/9 inhibitors alone, inhibits the induction of CSH1 by stress. Taken together these data suggest that stress-induced MAPK8/9 and PRKAA1/2 regulate transcription factors Eomes/HAND1 and ID2, respectively. Together this network mediates induction of CSH1 by stress. Therefore, stress triggers a proportional increase in a normal early TSC differentiation event that could be adaptive in inducing CSH1. But the flexibility of TSC to undergo stress-induced differentiation could lead to pathophysiological consequences if stress endured and TSC differentiation became unbalanced.
During cortical development, coordination of proliferation and differentiation ensures the timely generation of different neural progenitor lineages that will give rise to mature neurons and glia. Geminin is an inhibitor of DNA replication and it has been proposed to regulate cell proliferation and fate determination during neurogenesis via interactions with transcription factors and chromatin remodeling complexes. To investigate the in vivo role of Geminin in the maintenance and differentiation of cortical neural progenitors, we have generated mice that lack Geminin expression in the developing cortex. Our results show that loss of Geminin leads to the expansion of neural progenitor cells located at the ventricular and subventricular zones of the developing cortex. Early cortical progenitors lacking Geminin exhibit a longer S-phase and a reduced ability to generate early born neurons, consistent with a preference on self-renewing divisions. Overexpression of Geminin in progenitor cells of the cortex reduces the number of neural progenitor cells, promotes cell cycle exit and subsequent neuronal differentiation. Our study suggests that Geminin has an important role during cortical development in regulating progenitor number and ultimately neuron generation.
AIMS: Our recent work demonstrated that common cardiovascular progenitor cells are characterized and induced by the expression of the transcription factor mesoderm posterior1 (MesP1) in vertebrate embryos and murine embryonic stem cells. As the proliferative potential of stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes is limited, it is crucial to understand how MesP1 expression is mediated in order to achieve reasonable and reliable yields for novel stem cell-based therapeutic options. As potential upstream regulators of MesP1, we therefore analysed Eomes and Brachyury(T), which had been controversially discussed as being crucial for cardiovasculogenic lineage formation.METHODS AND RESULTS: Wild-type and transgenic murine embryonic stem cell lines, mRNA analyses, embryoid body formation, and cell sorting revealed that the MesP1 positive population emerges from the Brachyury(T) positive fraction. In situ hybridizations using wild-type mouse embryos confirmed that Brachyury(T) colocalises with MesP1 in vivo. Likewise, shRNA-based loss of Brachyury(T) causes a dramatic decrease in MesP1 expression accompanied by reduced cardiac markers in differentiating embryonic stem cells, which is reflected in vivo via in situ hybridizations using Brachyury(T) knock-out embryos where MesP1 mRNA is greatly abolished. We finally defined a 3.4 kb proximal MesP1-promoter fragment which is directly bound and activated by Brachyury(T) via a T responsive element as shown via bandshift, chromatin immuneprecipitation, and reporter assays.CONCLUSION: Our work contributes to the understanding of the earliest cardiovasculogenic events and may become an important prerequisite for cell therapy, tissue engineering, and pharmacological testing in the culture dish using pluripotent stem cell-derived as well as directly reprogrammed cardiovascular cell types.
The cingulate and retrosplenial regions are major components of the dorsomedial (dm) limbic cortex and have been implicated in a range of cognitive functions such as emotion, attention, and spatial memory. While the structure and connectivity of these cortices are well characterized, little is known about their development. Notably, the timing and mode of migration that govern the appropriate positioning of late-born neurons remain unknown. Here, we analyzed migratory events during the early postnatal period from ventricular/subventricular zone (VZ/SVZ) to the cerebral cortex by transducing neuronal precursors in the VZ/SVZ of newborn rats/mice with Tomato/green fluorescent protein-encoding lentivectors. We have identified a pool of postmitotic pyramidal precursors in the dm part of the neonatal VZ/SVZ that migrate into the medial limbic cortex during the first postnatal week. Time-lapse imaging demonstrates that these cells migrate on radial glial fibers by locomotion and display morphological and behavioral changes as they travel through the white matter and enter into the cortical gray matter. In the granular retrosplenial cortex, these cells give rise to a Satb2+ pyramidal subtype and develop dendritic bundles in layer I. Our observations provide the first insight into the patterns and dynamics of cell migration into the medial limbic cortex.
Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) has been shown to be required for Th17 cell differentiation via Smad-independent mechanisms. The molecular mechanism underlying this pathway remains to be clarified, however. We searched for genes regulated by TGF-β through the Smad-independent pathway by using Smad2 and Smad3 double-deficient T cells and identified the transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes), whose expression was suppressed by TGF-β via the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)-c-Jun signaling pathway. Inhibition of JNK strongly suppressed disease in an in vivo EAE model as well as in vitro Th17 cell induction. Overexpression of Eomes substantially suppressed Th17 cell differentiation, whereas ablation of Eomes expression could substitute for TGF-β in Th17 cell induction in primary T cells. Eomes suppressed Rorc and Il17a promoters by directly binding to the proximal region of these promoters. In conclusion, the suppression of Eomes by TGF-β via the JNK pathway is an important mechanism for Smad-independent Th17 cell differentiation.
We have recently shown that MHC class II-dependent thymocyte-thymocyte (T-T) interaction successfully generates CD4(+) T cells (T-T CD4(+) T cells), and that T-T CD4(+) T cells expressing promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger protein (PLZF) show an innate property both in mice and humans. In this article, we report that the thymic T-T interaction is essential for the conversion of CD8(+) T cells into innate phenotype in the physiological condition. CD8(+) T cells developed in the presence of PLZF(+) CD4(+) T cells showed marked upregulation of eomesodermin (Eomes), activation/memory phenotype, and rapid production of IFN-γ on ex vivo stimulation. Their development was highly dependent on the PLZF expression in T-T CD4(+) T cells and the IL-4 secreted by PLZF(+) T-T CD4(+) T cells. The same events may take place in humans, as a substantial number of Eomes expressing innate CD8(+) T cells were found in human fetal thymi and spleens. It suggests that PLZF(+) T-T CD4(+) T cells in combination with Eomes(+) CD8(+) T cells might actively participate in the innate immune response against various pathogens, particularly in human perinatal period.
BACKGROUND: While the diversity and spatio-temporal origin of olfactory bulb (OB) GABAergic interneurons has been studied in detail, much less is known about the subtypes of glutamatergic OB interneurons.RESULTS: We studied the temporal generation and diversity of Neurog2-positive precursor progeny using an inducible genetic fate mapping approach. We show that all subtypes of glutamatergic neurons derive from Neurog2 positive progenitors during development of the OB. Projection neurons, that is, mitral and tufted cells, are produced at early embryonic stages, while a heterogeneous population of glutamatergic juxtaglomerular neurons are generated at later embryonic as well as at perinatal stages. While most juxtaglomerular neurons express the T-Box protein Tbr2, those generated later also express Tbr1. Based on morphological features, these juxtaglomerular cells can be identified as tufted interneurons and short axon cells, respectively. Finally, targeted electroporation experiments provide evidence that while the majority of OB glutamatergic neurons are generated from intrabulbar progenitors, a small portion of them originate from extrabulbar regions at perinatal ages.CONCLUSIONS: We provide the first comprehensive analysis of the temporal and spatial generation of OB glutamatergic neurons and identify distinct populations of juxtaglomerular interneurons that differ in their antigenic properties and time of origin.
BACKGROUND: T cell development occurs within the highly specialized thymus. Cytotoxic CD8 T cells are critical in adaptive immunity by targeting virally infected or tumor cells. In this study, we addressed whether functional CD8 T cells can be generated fully in vitro using human umbilical cord blood (UCB) hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in coculture with OP9-DL1 cells.RESULTS: HSC/OP9-DL1 cocultures supported the differentiation of CD8 T cells, which were TCR/CD3(hi) CD27(hi) CD1a(neg) and thus phenotypically resembled mature functional CD8 single positive thymocytes. These in vitro-generated T cells also appeared to be conventional CD8 cells, as they expressed high levels of Eomes and low levels of Plzf, albeit not identical to ex vivo UCB CD8 T cells. Consistent with the phenotypic and molecular characterization, upon TCR-stimulation, in vitro-generated CD8 T cells proliferated, expressed activation markers (MHC-II, CD25, CD38), secreted IFN-γ and expressed Granzyme B, a cytotoxic T-cell effector molecule.CONCLUSION: Taken together, the ability to direct human hematopoietic stem cell or T-progenitor cells towards a mature functional phenotype raises the possibility of establishing cell-based treatments for T-immunodeficiencies by rapidly restoring CD8 effector function, thereby mitigating the risks associated with opportunistic infections.
CD8 T cells play a key role in mediating protective immunity against selected pathogens after vaccination. Understanding the mechanism of this protection is dependent upon definition of the heterogeneity and complexity of cellular immune responses generated by different vaccines. Here, we identify previously unrecognized subsets of CD8 T cells based upon analysis of gene-expression patterns within single cells and show that they are differentially induced by different vaccines. Three prime-boost vector combinations encoding HIV Env stimulated antigen-specific CD8 T-cell populations of similar magnitude, phenotype, and functionality. Remarkably, however, analysis of single-cell gene-expression profiles enabled discrimination of a majority of central memory (CM) and effector memory (EM) CD8 T cells elicited by the three vaccines. Subsets of T cells could be defined based on their expression of Eomes, Cxcr3, and Ccr7, or Klrk1, Klrg1, and Ccr5 in CM and EM cells, respectively. Of CM cells elicited by DNA prime-recombinant adenoviral (rAd) boost vectors, 67% were Eomes(-) Ccr7(+) Cxcr3(-), in contrast to only 7% and 2% stimulated by rAd5-rAd5 or rAd-LCMV, respectively. Of EM cells elicited by DNA-rAd, 74% were Klrk1(-) Klrg1(-)Ccr5(-) compared with only 26% and 20% for rAd5-rAd5 or rAd5-LCMV. Definition by single-cell gene profiling of specific CM and EM CD8 T-cell subsets that are differentially induced by different gene-based vaccines will facilitate the design and evaluation of vaccines, as well as enable our understanding of mechanisms of protective immunity.
Conventional and nonconventional T cell development occur in the thymus. Nonconventional thymocytes that bear characteristics typically associated with innate immune cells are termed innate-like lymphocytes (ILLs). Mice harboring a tyrosine to phenylalanine mutation in the adaptor protein Src homology 2 domain-containing leukocyte protein of 76 kDa at residue 145 (Y145F mice) develop an expanded population of CD8(+)CD122(+)CD44(+) ILLs, typified by expression of the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin. Y145F mice also have an expanded population of γδ T cells that produce copious amounts of IL-4 via a mechanism that is dependent on the BTB-ZF transcription factor promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger. Using mice with T cell-specific deletion of Eomes, we demonstrate that this transcription factor is required for CD8(+) ILL development in Y145F as well as wild-type mice. Moreover, we show that promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger and IL-4 are also required for the generation of this ILL population. Taken together, these data shed light on the cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic factors that drive CD8(+) ILL differentiation.
Natural killer (NK) cells are differentiated from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) which are located at the lowest end of an oxygen gradient within the bone marrow (BM). In this report, we investigated whether oxygen tension could affect NK cell differentiation from hematopoietic cells in vitro. We found that hypoxia led to an inhibition of differentiation in NK cells, and increased oxygen supply alleviated this inhibition and restored NK cell differentiation under hypoxic condition. Hypoxia-treated cells demonstrated reduced mRNA expression of transcription factors (TFs) that have important roles in NK cell differentiation, such as EOMES, T-bet, GATA-3 and ETS-1. Moreover, hypoxia-pretreated cells recovered mRNA expression of TFs when the oxygen tension was changed to normoxia. Our findings suggest that oxygen tension modulates in vitro differentiation of NK cells through the regulation of TF expression.
Extranodal natural killer/T (NK/T)-cell lymphoma, nasal type, is a prevailing tumor in Asia with distinct clinical, pathologic, and immunophenotypic features. Previous study revealed amplification and overexpression of T-bet in extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type. As a transcription factor, T-bet functionally cooperates with its family member eomesodermin (EOMES) or ETS family members (ETS-1 and MEF) and positively regulates the development and cytotoxic function of natural killer (NK) cells. To evaluate their role in extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type, the expression status and clinical relevance of these genes were analyzed in 40 cases of this tumor by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Tumor cells in all 40 cases expressed cytotoxic granule proteins, of which 39 contained the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome. Two (8.7%) of 23 cases showed T-cell receptor (TCR) γ gene clonal rearrangement, confirming cytotoxic T lineage of cell derivation. The expression level of T-bet as revealed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry was high in extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type, (82.5% and 100%) and peripheral T-cell lymphomas (94.4% and 72.2%) but not in mature B-cell lymphomas in our control group (0% and 0%). By in situ hybridization, high expression of EOMES (80.0%), ETS-1 (82.5%), and MEF (62.5%) was observed in cases of extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type, but none of the control groups and cases expressed these molecules. Coexpression of T-bet and EOMES, ETS-1, or MEF was found in 30 (75%), 25 (62.5%), and 21 cases (52.5%), respectively. The frequency of coexpression of T-bet and EOMES was significantly higher than that of other genes. Transcription factors engaged in NK-cell development are highly expressed in extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type, suggesting a role in the biologic behavior of this tumor.
Understanding the molecular mechanisms controlling early cell fate decisions in mammals is a major objective toward the development of robust methods for the differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells into clinically relevant cell types. Here, we used human embryonic stem cells and mouse epiblast stem cells to study specification of definitive endoderm in vitro. Using a combination of whole-genome expression and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) deep sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses, we established an hierarchy of transcription factors regulating endoderm specification. Importantly, the pluripotency factors NANOG, OCT4, and SOX2 have an essential function in this network by actively directing differentiation. Indeed, these transcription factors control the expression of EOMESODERMIN (EOMES), which marks the onset of endoderm specification. In turn, EOMES interacts with SMAD2/3 to initiate the transcriptional network governing endoderm formation. Together, these results provide for the first time a comprehensive molecular model connecting the transition from pluripotency to endoderm specification during mammalian development.
Although putative horse embryonic stem (ES)-like cell lines have been obtained recently from in vivo-derived embryos, it is currently not known whether it is possible to obtain ES cell (ESC) lines from somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) and parthenogenetic (PA) embryos. Our aim is to establish culture conditions for the derivation of autologous ESC lines for cell therapy studies in an equine model. Our results indicate that both the use of early-stage blastocysts with a clearly visible inner cell mass (ICM) and the use of pronase to dissect the ICM allow the derivation of a higher proportion of primary ICM outgrowths from PA and SCNT embryos. Primary ICM outgrowths express the molecular markers of pluripotency POU class 5 homeobox 1 (POU5F1) and (sex determining region-Y)-box2 (SOX2), and in some cases, NANOG. Cells obtained after the passages of PA primary ICM outgrowths display alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity and POU5F1, SOX2, caudal-related homeobox-2 (CDX2) and eomesodermin (EOMES) expression, but may lose NANOG. Cystic embryoid body-like structures expressing POU5F1, CDX2 and EOMES were produced from these cells. Immunohistochemical analysis of equine embryos reveals the presence of POU5F1 in trophectoderm, primitive endoderm and ICM. These results suggest that cells obtained after passages of primary ICM outgrowths are positive for trophoblast stem cell markers while expressing POU5F1 and displaying AP activity. Therefore, these cells most likely represent trophoblast cells rather than true ESCs. This study represents an important first step towards the production of autologous equine ESCs for pre-clinical cell therapy studies on large animal models.
BACKGROUND: In preimplantation mammalian development the transcription factor Sox2 (SRY-related HMG-box gene 2) forms a complex with Oct4 and functions in maintenance of self-renewal of the pluripotent inner cell mass (ICM). Previously it was shown that Sox2-/- embryos die soon after implantation. However, maternal Sox2 transcripts may mask an earlier phenotype. We investigated whether Sox2 is involved in controlling cell fate decisions at an earlier stage.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We addressed the question of an earlier role for Sox2 using RNAi, which removes both maternal and embryonic Sox2 mRNA present during the preimplantation period. By depleting both maternal and embryonic Sox2 mRNA at the 2-cell stage and monitoring embryo development in vitro we show that, in the absence of Sox2, embryos arrest at the morula stage and fail to form trophectoderm (TE) or cavitate. Following knock-down of Sox2 via three different short interfering RNA (siRNA) constructs in 2-cell stage mouse embryos, we have shown that the majority of embryos (76%) arrest at the morula stage or slightly earlier and only 18.7-21% form blastocysts compared to 76.2-83% in control groups. In Sox2 siRNA-treated embryos expression of pluripotency associated markers Oct4 and Nanog remained unaffected, whereas TE associated markers Tead4, Yap, Cdx2, Eomes, Fgfr2, as well as Fgf4, were downregulated in the absence of Sox2. Apoptosis was also increased in Sox2 knock-down embryos. Rescue experiments using cell-permeant Sox2 protein resulted in increased blastocyst formation from 18.7% to 62.6% and restoration of Sox2, Oct4, Cdx2 and Yap protein levels in the rescued Sox2-siRNA blastocysts.CONCLUSION AND SIGNIFICANCE: We conclude that the first essential function of Sox2 in the preimplantation mouse embryo is to facilitate establishment of the trophectoderm lineage. Our findings provide a novel insight into the first differentiation event within the preimplantation embryo, namely the segregation of the ICM and TE lineages.
In this study, we selected gelatin as ECM (extracellular matrix) to support differentiation of mES (mouse embryonic stem) cells into TE (trophectoderm), as gelatin was less expensive and widely used. We found that 0.2% and 1.5% gelatin were the suitable concentrations to induce TE differentiation by means of detecting Cdx2 expression using real-time PCR. Moreover, about 15% cells were positive for Cdx2 staining after 6 days differentiation. We discovered that the expressions of specific markers for TE, such as Cdx2, Eomes, Hand1 and Esx1 were prominently increased after gelatin induction. Meanwhile, the expression of Oct4 was significantly decreased. We also found that inhibition of the BMP (bone morphogenetic protein) signalling by Noggin could promote mES cells differentiation into TE, whereas inhibition of the Wnt signalling by Dkk1 had the contrary effect. This could be used as a tool to study the differentiation and function of early trophoblasts as well as further elucidating the molecular mechanism during abnormal placental development.
A hallmark of autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS), caused by mutation of the Fas death receptor, is massive lymphadenopathy from aberrant expansion of CD4(-)CD8(-) (double-negative [DN]) T cells. Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a member of the T-box family of transcription factors and plays critical roles in effector cell function and memory cell fitness of CD8(+) T lymphocytes. We provide evidence in this study that DN T cells exhibit dysregulated expression of Eomes in humans and mice with ALPS. We also find that T cell-specific deletion of Eomes prevents lymphoid hypertrophy and accumulation of DN T cells in Fas-mutant mice. Although Eomes has critical physiological roles in the function and homeostasis of CD8(+) T cells, overexpression of Eomes appears to enable pathological induction or expansion of unusual CD8-related T cell subsets. Thus, antagonism of Eomes emerges as a therapeutic target for DN T cell ablation in ALPS.
BACKGROUND: The generation of long-lived memory T cells is critical for successful vaccination but the factors controlling their differentiation are still poorly defined. We tested the hypothesis that the strength of T cell receptor (TCR) signaling contributed to memory CD8(+) T cell generation.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We manipulated the density of antigenic epitope presented by dendritic cells to mouse naïve CD8(+) T cells, without varying TCR affinity. Our results show that a two-fold decrease in antigen dose selectively affects memory CD8(+) T cell generation without influencing T cell expansion and acquisition of effector functions. Moreover, we show that low antigen dose alters the duration of the interaction between T cells and dendritic cells and finely tunes the expression level of the transcription factors Eomes and Bcl6. Furthermore, we demonstrate that priming with higher epitope density results in a 2-fold decrease in the expression of Neuron-derived orphan nuclear receptor 1 (Nor-1) and this correlates with a lower level of conversion of Bcl-2 into a pro-apoptotic molecule and an increased number of memory T cells.CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that the amount of antigen encountered by naïve CD8(+) T cells following immunization with dendritic cells does not influence the generation of functional effector CD8(+) T cells but rather the number of CD8(+) memory T cells that persist in the host. Our data support a model where antigenic epitope density sensed by CD8(+) T cells at priming influences memory generation by modulating Bcl6, Eomes and Nor-1 expression.
Author information:(1)Department of Pathology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034, China.
Blastomere fate and embryonic genome activation (EGA) during human embryonic development are unsolved areas of high scientific and clinical interest. Forty-nine blastomeres from 5- to 8-cell human embryos have been investigated following an efficient single-cell cDNA amplification protocol to provide a template for high-density microarray analysis. The previously described markers, characteristic of Inner Cell Mass (ICM) (n = 120), stemness (n = 190) and Trophectoderm (TE) (n = 45), were analyzed, and a housekeeping pattern of 46 genes was established. All the human blastomeres from the 5- to 8-cell stage embryo displayed a common gene expression pattern corresponding to ICM markers (e.g., DDX3, FOXD3, LEFTY1, MYC, NANOG, POU5F1), stemness (e.g., POU5F1, DNMT3B, GABRB3, SOX2, ZFP42, TERT), and TE markers (e.g., GATA6, EOMES, CDX2, LHCGR). The EGA profile was also investigated between the 5-6- and 8-cell stage embryos, and compared to the blastocyst stage. Known genes (n = 92) such as depleted maternal transcripts (e.g., CCNA1, CCNB1, DPPA2) and embryo-specific activation (e.g., POU5F1, CDH1, DPPA4), as well as novel genes, were confirmed. In summary, the global single-cell cDNA amplification microarray analysis of the 5- to 8-cell stage human embryos reveals that blastomere fate is not committed to ICM or TE. Finally, new EGA features in human embryogenesis are presented.
Kruppel-like transcription factors (Klfs) are essential for the induction and maintenance of pluripotency of embryonic stem cells (ESCs), yet little is known about their roles in establishing the three lineages of the pre-implantation embryo. Here, we show that Klf5 is required for the formation of the trophectoderm (TE) and the inner cell mass (ICM), and for repressing primitive endoderm (PE) development. Although cell polarity appeared normal, Klf5 mutant embryos arrested at the blastocyst stage and failed to hatch due to defective TE development. Klf5 acted cell-autonomously in the TE, downstream of Fgf4 and upstream of Cdx2, Eomes and Krt8. In the ICM, loss of Klf5 resulted in reduced expression of pluripotency markers Oct4 and Nanog, but led to increased Sox17 expression in the PE, suggesting that Klf5 suppresses the PE lineage. Consistent with this, overexpression of Klf5 in transgenic embryos was sufficient to suppress the Sox17(+) PE lineage in the ICM. Klf5 overexpression led to a dose-dependent decrease in Sox17 promoter activity in reporter assays in cultured cells. Moreover, in chimeric embryos, Klf5(-/-) cells preferentially contributed to the Sox17(+) PE lineage and Cdx2 expression was not rescued in Klf5(-/-) outer cells. Finally, outgrowths from Klf5(-/-) embryos failed to form an ICM/pluripotent colony, had very few Oct4(+) or Cdx2(+) cells, but showed an increase in the percentage of Sox17(+) PE cells. These findings demonstrate that Klf5 is a dynamic regulator of all three lineages in the pre-implantation embryo by promoting the TE and epiblast lineages while suppressing the PE lineage.
CD8(+) T cells responding to intracellular infection give rise to cellular progeny that become terminally differentiated effector cells and self-renewing memory cells. T-bet and eomesodermin (Eomes) are key transcription factors of cytotoxic lymphocyte lineages. We show in this study that CD8(+) T cells lacking Eomes compete poorly in contributing to the pool of Ag-specific central memory cells. Eomes-deficient CD8(+) T cells undergo primary clonal expansion but are defective in long-term survival, populating the bone marrow niche and re-expanding postrechallenge. The phenotype of Eomes-deficient CD8(+) T cells supports the hypothesis that T-bet and Eomes can act redundantly to induce effector functions, but can also act to reciprocally promote terminal differentiation versus self-renewal of Ag-specific memory cells.
CD8+ T cells play a critical role in the immune response to viral pathogens. Persistent human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection results in a strong increase in the number of virus-specific, quiescent effector-type CD8+ T cells with constitutive cytolytic activity, but the molecular pathways involved in the induction and maintenance of these cells are unknown. We show here that HCMV infection induced acute and lasting changes in the transcriptomes of virus-reactive T cells collected from HCMV-seropositive patients at distinct stages of infection. Enhanced cell cycle and metabolic activity was restricted to the acute phase of the response, but at all stages, HCMV-specific CD8+ T cells expressed the Th1-associated transcription factors T-bet (TBX21) and eomesodermin (EOMES), in parallel with continuous expression of IFNG mRNA and IFN-γ-regulated genes. The cytolytic proteins granzyme B and perforin as well as the fractalkine-binding chemokine receptor CX3CR1 were found in virus-reactive cells throughout the response. During HCMV latency, virus-specific CD8+ T cells lacked the typical features of exhausted cells found in other chronic infections. Persistent effector cell traits together with the permanent changes in chemokine receptor usage of virus-specific, nonexhausted, long-lived CD8+ T cells may be crucial to maintain lifelong protection from HCMV reactivation.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of the blastocyst in implantation failure. This study examined trophectoderm (TE) gene expression relative to pregnancy outcome.DESIGN: Retrospective experimental study.SETTING: Nonprofit research foundation.ANIMAL(S): Six-week-old BDF1 female mice.INTERVENTION(S): Hatching blastocysts underwent trophectoderm biopsy before single blastocyst transfer (one per uterine horn).MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Blinded gene expression analysis was performed on biopsied TE cells by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (Q RT-PCR). Healthy placenta and absorption sites were biopsied on day 16 of fetal development for comprehensive transcriptome analysis with validation by Q RT-PCR.RESULT(S): Compared with blastocysts that resulted in healthy fetal development, blastocysts that failed to implant (negative) showed decreased B3gnt5 and Eomes gene expression, while blastocysts that resulted in spontaneous pregnancy loss (absorption) displayed decreased Wnt3a and Eomes gene expression. Comprehensive transcriptome analysis of biopsied absorption sites and healthy placenta revealed distinct gene expression signatures, with 5,918 significantly altered transcripts (greater than twofold). The predominantly altered pathways associated with spontaneous pregnancy loss were the complement and coagulation cascades.CONCLUSION(S): This study revealed for the first time that individual blastocyst gene expression profiles correlate with outcome, including successful implantation and pregnancy loss.
Intermediate progenitor cells constitute a second proliferative cell type in the developing mammalian cerebral cortex. Little is known about the factors that govern the production of intermediate progenitors. Although persistent expression of stabilized beta-catenin was found to delay the maturation of radial glial progenitors into intermediate progenitors, the relationship between beta-catenin signaling and intermediate progenitors remains poorly understood. Using a transgenic reporter mouse for Axin2, a direct target of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, we observed that beta-catenin signaling is decreased in intermediate progenitor cells relative to radial glial progenitors. Conditional deletion of beta-catenin from mouse cortical neural progenitors increased intermediate progenitor numbers, while conditional expression of stabilized beta-catenin reduced the intermediate progenitor population. Together, these findings provide evidence that beta-catenin signaling in radial progenitors negatively regulates intermediate progenitor cell number during cortical development.
Comment on    Immunity. 2010 Aug 27;33(2):229-40.
Comment in    Immunity. 2010 Aug 27;33(2):145-7.
Cell-mediated adaptive immunity is very important in tumor immune surveillance and tumor vaccination. However, the genetic program underlying an effective adaptive antitumor immunity is elusive. T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes) have been suggested to be master regulators of Th1 cells and CD8(+) T cells. However, whether they are important for T cell-mediated antitumor immunity is controversial. In this paper, we show that the combined germline deletion of T-bet and T cell-specific deletion of Eomes resulted in profound defects in adaptive antitumor immune responses. T-bet and Eomes drive Tc1 differentiation by preventing alternative CD8(+) T cell differentiation to Tc17 or Tc2 cells. Surprisingly, T-bet and Eomes are not critical for the generation of systemic CTL activities against cancer cells. Instead, T-bet and Eomes are crucial for tumor infiltration by CD8(+) T cells. This study defines T-bet and Eomes as critical regulators of T cell-mediated immune responses against tumor.
Little is known about how, during its formidable expansion in development and evolution, the cerebral cortex is able to maintain the correct balance between excitatory and inhibitory neurons. In fact, while the former are born within the cortical primordium, the latter originate outward in the ventral pallium. Therefore, it remains to be addressed how these two neuronal populations might coordinate their relative amounts in order to build a functional cortical network. Here, we show that Tbr2-positive cortical intermediate (basal) neuronal progenitors (INPs) dictate the migratory route and control the amount of subpallial GABAergic interneurons in the subventricular zone (SVZ) through a non-cell-autonomous mechanism. In fact, Tbr2 interneuron attractive activity is moderated by Cxcl12 chemokine signaling, whose forced expression in the Tbr2 mutants can rescue, to some extent, SVZ cell migration. We thus propose that INPs are able to control simultaneously the increase of glutamatergic and GABAergic neuronal pools, thereby creating a simple way to intrinsically balance their relative accumulation.
We previously demonstrated that gammadelta T cells played an important role in tumor immune surveillance by providing an early source of IFN-gamma. The precise role of different subsets of gammadelta T cells in the antitumor immune response, however, is unknown. Vgamma1 and Vgamma4 gammadelta T cells are the principal subsets of peripheral lymphoid gammadelta T cells and they might play distinct roles in tumor immunity. In support of this, we observed that reconstitution of TCRdelta(-/-) mice with Vgamma4, but not Vgamma1, gammadelta T cells restored the antitumor response. We also found that these effects were exerted by the activated (CD44(high)) portion of Vgamma4 gammadelta T cells. We further determined that IFN-gamma and perforin are critical elements in the Vgamma4-mediated antitumor immune response. Indeed, CD44(high) Vgamma4 gammadelta T cells produced significantly more IFN-gamma and perforin on activation, and showed greater cytolytic activity than did CD44(high) Vgamma1 gammadelta T cells, apparently due to the high level of eomesodermin (Eomes) in these activated Vgamma4 gammadelta T cells. Consistently, transfection of dominant-negative Eomes in Vgamma4 gammadelta T cells diminished the level of IFN-gamma secretion, indicating a critical role of Eomes in the effector function of these gammadelta T cells. Our results thus reveal distinct functions of Vgamma4 and Vgamma1 gammadelta T cells in antitumor immune response, and identify a protective role of activated Vgamma4 gammadelta T cells, with possible implications for tumor immune therapy.
It is essential to understand the network of transcription factors controlling self-renewal of human embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and human embryonal carcinoma cells (ECs) if we are to exploit these cells in regenerative medicine regimes. Correlating gene expression levels after RNAi-based ablation of OCT4 function with its downstream targets enables a better prediction of motif-specific driven expression modules pertinent for self-renewal and differentiation of embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells.We initially identified putative direct downstream targets of OCT4 by employing CHIP-on-chip analysis. A comparison of three peak analysis programs revealed a refined list of OCT4 targets in the human EC cell line NCCIT, this list was then compared to previously published OCT4 CHIP-on-chip datasets derived from both ES and EC cells. We have verified an enriched POU-motif, discovered by a de novo approach, thus enabling us to define six distinct modules of OCT4 binding and regulation of its target genes.A selection of these targets has been validated, like NANOG, which harbours the evolutionarily conserved OCT4-SOX2 binding motif within its proximal promoter. Other validated targets, which do not harbour the classical HMG motif are USP44 and GADD45G, a key regulator of the cell cycle. Over-expression of GADD45G in NCCIT cells resulted in an enrichment and up-regulation of genes associated with the cell cycle (CDKN1B, CDKN1C, CDK6 and MAPK4) and developmental processes (BMP4, HAND1, EOMES, ID2, GATA4, GATA5, ISL1 and MSX1). A comparison of positively regulated OCT4 targets common to EC and ES cells identified genes such as NANOG, PHC1, USP44, SOX2, PHF17 and OCT4, thus further confirming their universal role in maintaining self-renewal in both cell types. Finally we have created a user-friendly database (http://biit.cs.ut.ee/escd/), integrating all OCT4 and stem cell related datasets in both human and mouse ES and EC cells.In the current era of systems biology driven research, we envisage that our integrated embryonic stem cell database will prove beneficial to the booming field of ES, iPS and cancer research.
Human naïve CD4 T cells express low levels of the immunomodulatory receptor CD300a, whereas effector/memory CD4 cells can be either CD300a(+) or CD300a(-). This suggested that CD300a expression could define a specific subset within the effector/memory CD4 T cell subpopulations. In fact, ex vivo analysis of the IFN-gamma producing CD4 T cells showed that they are enriched in the CD300a(+) subset. Moreover, stimulated CD4 T cells producing TNF-alpha and IL-2 besides IFN-gamma (polyfunctional) are predominantly CD300a(+). In addition to producing markedly higher levels of Th1-associated cytokines, the stimulated CD300a(+) CD4 T cells are distinguished by a striking up-regulation of the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes), whereas T-bet is up-regulated in both CD300a(+) and CD300a(-) activated CD4 T cells to similar levels. The pleiotropic cytokine TGF-beta1 has a determinant role in dictating the development of this Th1 subset, as its presence inhibits the expression of CD300a and down-regulates the expression of Eomes and IFN-gamma. We conclude that CD300a(+) human Th1 cells tend to be polyfunctional and after stimulation up-regulate Eomes.
The recent discovery of short neural precursors (SNPs) in the murine neocortical ventricular zone (VZ) challenges the widely held view that radial glial cells (RGCs) are the sole occupants of this germinal compartment and suggests that precursor variety is an important factor of brain development. Here, we use in utero electroporation and genetic fate mapping to show that SNPs and RGCs cohabit the VZ but display different cell cycle kinetics and generate phenotypically different progeny. In addition, we find that RGC progeny undergo additional rounds of cell division as intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs), whereas SNP progeny generally produce postmitotic neurons directly from the VZ. By clearly defining SNPs as bona fide VZ residents, separate from both RGCs and IPCs, and uncovering their unique proliferative and lineage properties, these results demonstrate how individual neural precursor groups in the embryonic rodent VZ create diversity in the overlying neocortex.
Divisions of polarised blastomeres that allocate polar cells to outer and apolar cells to inner positions initiate the first cell fate decision in the mouse embryo. Subsequently, outer cells differentiate into trophectoderm while inner cells retain pluripotency to become inner cell mass (ICM) of the blastocyst. Elimination of zygotic expression of trophectoderm-specific transcription factor Cdx2 leads to defects in the maintenance of the blastocyst cavity, suggesting that it participates only in the late stage of trophectoderm formation. However, we now find that mouse embryos also have a maternally provided pool of Cdx2 mRNA. Moreover, depletion of both maternal and zygotic Cdx2 from immediately after fertilization by three independent approaches, dsRNAi, siRNAi and morpholino oligonucleotides, leads to developmental arrest at much earlier stages than expected from elimination of only zygotic Cdx2. This developmental arrest is associated with defects in cell polarisation, reflected by expression and localisation of cell polarity molecules such as Par3 and aPKC and cell compaction at the 8- and 16-cell stages. Cells deprived of Cdx2 show delayed development with increased cell cycle length, irregular cell division and increased incidence of apoptosis. Although some Cdx2-depleted embryos initiate cavitation, the cavity cannot be maintained. Furthermore, expression of trophectoderm-specific genes, Gata3 and Eomes, and also the trophectoderm-specific cytokeratin intermediate filament, recognised by Troma1, are greatly reduced or undetectable. Taken together, our results indicate that Cdx2 participates in two steps leading to trophectoderm specification: appropriate polarisation of blastomeres at the 8- and 16-cell stage and then the maintenance of trophectoderm lineage-specific differentiation.
In cattle, embryos elongate before implantation and after hatching. Changes in gene expression during this transition are not well studied. Especially important are variations in the expression of pluripotency-associated genes as a result of assisted reproductive biotechnologies, such as cloning and in vitro fertilization (IVF). We hypothesize that there will be a decline in the expression of key pluripotency-associated genes and an increase in the expression of IFN-tau in elongated embryos when compared with day-7 blastocysts. To test this we generated cloned and IVF bovine day-7 blastocyst and day-17 elongated embryos (day 0 = day of nucleus transfer or IVF). Gene expression in all embryos was assessed via RT-qPCR. OCT4 was overexpressed (p < 0.05) in the cloned blastocysts when compared with IVF. No differences in gene expression at this stage between cloned and IVF embryos were found for EOMES, NANOG and FGF4. At elongation EOMES, NANOG and FGF4 were upregulated in IVF embryos (p < 0.05). IFN-tau and OCT4 were expressed at similar levels. There were changes in the expression levels for all transcripts between blastogenesis and elongation. NANOG, IFN-tau and EOMES were overexpressed in all the elongated embryos (p < 0.05), FGF4 was underexpressed in both treatments. OCT4 dropped drastically in the cloned elongated embryos, but not in the IVF. Interestingly only adult donor cells (but not fetal) from which the cloned embryos originated also expressed high levels of OCT4. Our findings might help to understand the shift of gene expression during elongation and to identify key markers of embryonic development useful for embryo screening purposes.
Comment in    Immunity. 2010 Apr 23;32(4):500-1.
The fetus and infant are highly susceptible to viral infections. Several viruses, including human cytomegalovirus (CMV), cause more severe disease in early life compared with later life. It is generally accepted that this is a result of the immaturity of the immune system. gammadelta T cells are unconventional T cells that can react rapidly upon activation and show major histocompatibility complex-unrestricted activity. We show that upon CMV infection in utero, fetal gammadelta T cells expand and become differentiated. The expansion was restricted to Vgamma9-negative gammadelta T cells, irrespective of their Vdelta chain expression. Differentiated gammadelta T cells expressed high levels of IFN-gamma, transcription factors T-bet and eomes, natural killer receptors, and cytotoxic mediators. CMV infection induced a striking enrichment of a public Vgamma8Vdelta1-TCR, containing the germline-encoded complementary-determining-region-3 (CDR3) delta1-CALGELGDDKLIF/CDR3gamma8-CATWDTTGWFKIF. Public Vgamma8Vdelta1-TCR-expressing cell clones produced IFN-gamma upon coincubation with CMV-infected target cells in a TCR/CD3-dependent manner and showed antiviral activity. Differentiated gammadelta T cells and public Vgamma8Vdelta1-TCR were detected as early as after 21 wk of gestation. Our results indicate that functional fetal gammadelta T cell responses can be generated during development in utero and suggest that this T cell subset could participate in antiviral defense in early life.
Comment in    Nat Neurosci. 2010 May;13(5):531.
The first definitive cell fate decision in development occurs at the blastocyst stage with establishment of the trophoblast and embryonic cell lineages. In the mouse, lineage commitment is achieved by epigenetic regulation of a critical gatekeeper gene, the transcription factor Elf5, that reinforces placental cell fate and is necessary for trophoblast stem (TS) cell self-renewal. In humans, however, the epigenetic lineage boundary seems to be less stringent since human embryonic stem (ES) cells, unlike their murine counterparts, harbour some potential to differentiate into trophoblast derivatives. Here, we show that ELF5 is expressed in the human placenta in villous cytotrophoblast cells but not in post-mitotic syncytiotrophoblast and invasive extravillous cytotrophoblast cells. ELF5 establishes a circuit of mutually interacting transcription factors with CDX2 and EOMES, and the highly proliferative ELF5(+)/CDX2(+) double-positive subset of cytotrophoblast cells demarcates a putative TS cell compartment in the early human placenta. In contrast to placental trophoblast, however, ELF5 is hypermethylated and largely repressed in human ES cells and derived trophoblast cell lines, as well as in induced pluripotent stem cells and murine epiblast stem cells. Thus, these cells exhibit an embryonic lineage-specific epigenetic signature and do not undergo an epigenetic reprogramming to reflect the trophoblast lineage at key loci such as ELF5. Our identification of the trophoblast-specific transcriptional circuit established by ELF5 will be instrumental to derive human TS cell lines that truly reflect early placental trophoblast and that will be most beneficial to gain insights into the aetiology of common pregnancy complications, including intra-uterine growth restriction and pre-eclampsia.
BACKGROUND: The metatherian Monodelphis domestica, commonly known as the South-American short-tailed opossum, is an appealing animal model for developmental studies on cortico-cerebral development. Given its phylogenetic position, it can help in tracing evolutionary origins of key traits peculiar to the eutherian central nervous system. The capability of its pup to regenerate damaged cortico-spinal connections makes it an ideal substrate for regenerative studies. Recent sequencing of its genome and the ex utero accessibility of its developing cerebral cortex further enhance its experimental interest. However, at the moment, a comprehensive cellular and molecular characterization of its cortical development is missing.RESULTS: A systematic analysis of opossum cortico-cerebral development was performed, including: origin of cortical neurons; migration of these neurons from their birthplaces to their final layer destinations; and molecular differentiation of distinct neocortical laminae. We observed that opossum projection neurons and interneurons are generated by pallial and subpallial precursors, respectively, similar to rodents. A six-layered cortex with a eutherian-like molecular profile is laid down, according to the inside-out rule. However, neocortical projection neurons are generated by apical neural precursors and almost no basal progenitors may be found in the neuronogenic neopallial primordium. In the opossum neocortex, Tbr2, the hallmark of eutherian basal progenitors, is transiently expressed by postmitotic progenies of apical precursors prior to the activation of more mature neuronal markers.CONCLUSIONS: The neocortical developmental program predates Eutheria-Methatheria branching. However, in metatherians, unlike eutherians, a basal proliferative compartment is not needed for the formation of a six-layered neuronal blueprint.
Here we evaluated the cytotoxic effects of a combination of the histone deacetylase inhibitor suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) and taxanes in human breast cancer cell lines. Combination treatment with taxane and SAHA had a synergistic cytotoxic effect against taxane-resistant breast cancer cells. Oligonucleotide microarray analysis identified 28 genes (MAPK13, ATP2C1, ANKRD57, MT1G, RGL4, C12orf49, EXOC6, RAB4A, TM9SF3, IFNGR1, DMD, HCG9, KIFC3, SYNGR3, NDRG4, NT5E, EOMES, SMC4, LANCL1, SCHIP1, and 8 ESTs) whose expression correlated with the combined effect of paclitaxel and SAHA. Twelve of these genes were down-regulated in cell lines that were paclitaxel-resistant but combination synergistic. SAHA induced NT5E mRNA expression in paclitaxel-resistant YCC-B1 cell. Our results indicate that a combination of taxane and SAHA could be efficacious for the treatment of breast cancer and that genes involved in the synergistic response to paclitaxel and SAHA could serve as biomarkers to predict therapeutic response in breast cancer patients.
Somatic cloning in cattle is associated with impaired embryo development, caused by inappropriate epigenetic reprogramming during embryogenesis; however, there is a paucity of data regarding gene expression at the critical elongation and peri-implantation stages. The objective of the present study was to identify genes differentially expressed in bovine cloned embryos at Day 17 of development (Day 0=day of nucleus transfer or IVF). Day 7 blastocysts (Hand Made Cloned or IVP) were transferred to recipient cattle and collected at Day 17. The efficiency of recovery of elongated embryos was similar, however cloned embryos elongated less than IVP embryos (91.8+/-45.8 vs. 174+/-50mm) and fewer had embryonic discs (63 vs. 83%). Qualitative and quantitative PCR detected expression of OCT4, NANOG, IFNtau, EOMES, FGF4, SOX2, and CDX2 in all IVP embryos. In most cloned embryos, NANOG and FGF4 were absent (verified by qPCR); NANOG, EOMES, and FGF4 were underexpressed, whereas IFNtau was overexpressed in cloned embryos. Based on qPCRs, other genes, i.e., SPARC, SNRB1, and CBPP22, were down-regulated in cloned embryos, whereas HSP70 and TDKP1 were overexpressed. In bovine microarrays, 47 genes (3.6%) were deregulated in cloned embryos, including several involved in trophoblast growth and differentiation. In conclusion, we inferred that these data were indicative of incomplete epigenetic reprogramming after cloning; this could lead to aberrant gene expression and subsequently early pregnancy loss. There was an apparent association between incomplete morphological elongation and aberrant reprogramming of a subset of genes critical for early embryonic development.
Trophoblast stem cells (TS cells), derived from the trophectoderm (TE) of blastocysts, require transcription factors (TFs) and external signals (FGF4, INHBA/NODAL/TGFB1) for self-renewal. While many reports have focused on TF networks that regulate embryonic stem cell (ES cell) self-renewal and pluripotency, little is know about TF networks that regulate self-renewal in TS cells. To further understand transcriptional networks in TS cells, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation with DNA microarray hybridization (ChIP-chip) analysis to investigate targets of the TFs-TCFAP2C, EOMES, ETS2, and GATA3-and a chromatin remodeling factor, SMARCA4. We then evaluated the transcriptional states of target genes using transcriptome analysis and genome-wide analysis of histone H3 acetylation (AcH3). Our results describe previously unknown transcriptional networks in TS cells, including TF occupancy of genes involved in ES cell self-renewal and pluripotency, co-occupancy of TCFAP2C, SMARCA4, and EOMES at a significant number of genes, and transcriptional regulatory circuitry within the five factors. Moreover, RNAi depletion of Tcfap2c, Smarca4, and Eomes transcripts resulted in a loss of normal colony morphology and down-regulation of TS cell-specific genes, suggesting an important role for TCFAP2C, SMARCA4, and EOMES in TS cell self-renewal. Through genome-wide mapping and global expression analysis of five TF target genes, our data provide a comprehensive analysis of transcriptional networks that regulate TS cell self-renewal.
Interleukin(IL)-2 and inflammation regulate effector and memory cytolytic T-lymphocyte (CTL) generation during infection. We demonstrate a complex interplay between IL-2 and inflammatory signals during CTL differentiation. IL-2 stimulation induced the transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes), upregulated perforin (Prf1) transcription, and repressed re-expression of memory CTL markers Bcl6 and IL-7Ralpha. Binding of Eomes and STAT5 to Prf1 cis-regulatory regions correlated with transcriptional initiation (increased recruitment of RNA polymerase II to the Prf1 promoter). Inflammation (CpG, IL-12) enhanced expression of IL-2Ralpha and the transcription factor T-bet, but countered late Eomes and perforin induction while preventing IL-7Ralpha repression by IL-2. After infection of mice with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, IL-2Ralpha-deficient effector CD8(+) T cells expressed more Bcl6 but less perforin and granzyme B, formed fewer KLRG-1(+) and T-bet-expressing CTL, and killed poorly. Thus, inflammation influences both effector and memory CTL differentiation, whereas persistent IL-2 stimulation promotes effector at the expense of memory CTL development.
The mechanisms underpinning integration of instructions that program naive CD8+ T cells for effector and/or memory differentiation are not well understood. Herein, we demonstrate that interleukin-12 (IL-12) enhanced and sustained antigen and costimulatory molecule (B7.1)-induced mTOR kinase activity in naive CD8+ (OT-I) T cells via phosphoinositide 3-kinase and STAT4 transcription factor pathways. Blocking mTOR activity by rapamycin reversed IL-12-induced effector functions because of loss of persistent expression of the transcription factor T-bet. Rapamycin treatment of IL-12-conditioned OT-I cells promoted persistent Eomesodermin expression and produced memory cell precursors that demonstrated enhanced sustenance and antigen-recall responses upon adoptive transfer. The memory cell precursors showed greater tumor efficacy than IL-12-conditioned effector OT-I cells. These results identify mTOR as the central regulator of transcriptional programs that determine effector and/or memory cell fates in CD8+ T cells. Targeting mTOR activity offers new opportunities to regulate CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity.
Author information:(1)Department of Immunology, Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu 233030, China. bb_wanghongtao@126.com
In the mouse blastocyst, Eomes and Cdx2 are critical for establishing the trophoectoderm, the precursor of the placenta. To better understand how the trophoectoderm lineage arose in mammals during evolution, we examined the expression of their orthologues in the pregastrulation chick embryo and found that, while both genes are expressed in extraembryonic tissues, their temporal pattern of expression differs from what occurs in mouse. Moreover, we failed to detect expression of other genes specific from the mouse trophoectoderm in extraembryonic regions of the chick. Also unlike the mouse, chick Eomes is expressed in primordial germ cells. Finally, conserved noncoding elements in the Eomes genomic region are unable to drive trophoectoderm restricted expression in the mouse blastocyst, but do so in conserved sites of expression such as the forebrain. These results suggest that critical changes in the gene regulatory networks controlling extraembryonic development accompanied the appearance of the trophoectoderm in mammals.
The T-box gene VegT plays a crucial role during mesendoderm specification of the amphibian embryo. While the function of maternal VegT (mVegT) has been extensively investigated, little is known about the function and transcriptional regulation of zygotic VegT (zVegT). In the present study, we used comparative genomics and a knockdown experiment to demonstrate that zVegT is the orthologous gene of zebrafish Spadetail/Tbx16 and chick Tbx6L/Tbx6, and has an essential role in paraxial mesodermal formation. zVegT knockdown embryos show several defects in the patterning of trunk mesoderm, such as abnormal segmentation of somites, a reduction in muscle, and the formation of an abnormal mass of cells at the tail tip. We also identified the cis-regulatory elements of zVegT that are necessary and sufficient for mesoderm-specific expression. These cis-regulatory elements are located in two separate upstream regions of zVegT, corresponding to the first intron of mVegT. The results of in vitro binding and functional assays indicate that Forkhead box H1 (FoxH1) and Eomesodermin (Eomes) are the trans-acting factors required for zVegT expression. Our results highlight the essential role of zVegT in organization of paraxial mesoderm, and reveal that zVegT is regulated by a coherent feedforward loop of Nodal signaling via Eomes.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) mediated signaling is essential to many aspects of neural development. Activated FGF receptors signal primarily through the FGF receptor substrate (Frs) adapters, which include Frs2/Frs2alpha and Frs3/Frs2beta. While some studies suggest that Frs3 can compensate for the loss of Frs2 in transfected cells, the lack of an effective Frs3 specific antibody has prevented efforts to determine the role(s) of the endogenous protein. To this end, we have generated a Frs3 specific antibody and have characterized the pattern of Frs3 expression in the developing nervous system, its subcellular localization as well as its biochemical properties. We demonstrate that Frs3 is expressed at low levels in the ventricular zone of developing cortex, between E12 and E15, and it co-localizes with nestin and acetylated alpha-tubulin in radial processes in the ventricular/subventricular zones as well as with betaIII tubulin in differentiated cortical neurons. Subcellular fractionation studies demonstrate that endogenous Frs3 is both soluble and plasma membrane associated while Frs3 expressed in 293T cells associates exclusively with lipid rafts. Lastly, we demonstrate that neuronal Frs3 binds microtubules comparable to the microtubule-associated protein, MAP2, while Frs2 does not. Collectively, these data suggest that neuronal Frs3 functions as a novel microtubule binding protein and they provide the first biochemical evidence that neuronal Frs3 is functionally distinct from Frs2/Frs2alpha.
Erratum in    Nat Neurosci. 2010 May;13(5):649.
During mouse embryonic development, the T-box transcription factor Eomes/Tbr2 is expressed in highly dynamic patterns in various progenitor cell types. Those include the undifferentiated cells of the trophectoderm, ingressing nascent mesoderm at the primitive streak, and intermediate progenitor cells of the developing cerebral cortex. We generated an Eomes(GFP)- targeted allele to follow the highly dynamic patterns of Eomes expression and to allow for the identification of novel expression domains. We show that our novel allele recapitulates endogenous gene expression at known sites of expression and confirm our results by anti-Eomes immunofluorescent staining. Using this novel allele we were able to identify previously undocumented domains of Eomes expression within the visceral endoderm and at various locations in the developing and adult mouse brain.
Human CD34(+) hematopoietic precursor cells cultured on delta-like ligand 1 expressing OP9 (OP9-DL1) stromal cells differentiate to T lineage cells. The nature of the T cells generated in these cultures has not been studied in detail. Since these cultures do not contain thymic epithelial cells which are the main cell type mediating positive selection in vivo, generation of conventional helper CD4(+) and cytotoxic CD8(+) TCRalphabeta cells is not expected. Phenotypically mature CD27(+)CD1(-) TCRgammadelta as well as TCRalphabeta cells were generated in OP9-DL1 cultures. CD8 and few mature CD4 single-positive TCRalphabeta cells were observed. Mature CD8 single-positive cells consisted of two subpopulations: one expressing mainly CD8alphabeta and one expressing CD8alphaalpha dimers. TCRalphabeta CD8alphaalpha and TCRgammadelta cells both expressed the IL2Rbeta receptor constitutively and proliferated on IL-15, a characteristic of unconventional T cells. CD8alphabeta(+) and CD4(+) TCRalphabeta cells were unresponsive to IL-15, but could be expanded upon TCR stimulation as mature CD8alphabeta(+) and CD4(+) T cells. These T cells had the characteristics of conventional T cells: CD4(+) cells expressed ThPOK, CD40L, and high levels of IL-2 and IL-4; CD8(+) cells expressed Eomes, Runx3, and high levels of granzyme, perforin, and IFN-gamma. Induction of murine or human MHC class I expression on OP9-DL1 cells had no influence on the differentiation of mature CD8(+) cells. Similarly, the presence of dendritic cells was not required for the generation of mature CD4(+) or CD8(+) T cells. These data suggest that positive selection of these cells is induced by interaction between T precursor cells.
Embryonic stem cells (ESC) are both a potential source of cells for tissue replacement therapies and an accessible tool to model early embryonic development. Chemical factors such as soluble growth factors and insoluble components of the extracellular matrix are known to affect the differentiation of murine ESCs. However, there is also evidence to suggest that undifferentiated cells can both sense the mechanical properties of their environment and differentiate accordingly. By growing ESCs on flexible polydimethylsiloxane substrates with varying stiffness, we tested the hypothesis that substrate stiffness can influence ESC differentiation. While cell attachment was unaffected by the stiffness of the growth substrate, cell spreading and cell growth were all increased as a function of substrate stiffness. Similarly, several genes expressed in the primitive streak during gastrulation and implicated in early mesendoderm differentiation, such as Brachyury, Mixl1 and Eomes, were upregulated in cell cultures on stiffer compared to softer substrates. Finally, we demonstrated that osteogenic differentiation of ESCs was enhanced on stiff substrates compared to soft substrates, illustrating that the mechanical environment can play a role in both early and terminal ESC differentiation. Our results suggest a fundamental role for mechanosensing in mammalian development and illustrate that the mechanical environment should be taken into consideration when engineering implantable scaffolds or when producing therapeutically relevant cell populations in vitro.
Erratum in    Nat Neurosci. 2009 Oct;12(10):1237.    Nat Neurosci. 2010 May;13(5):649.
Recent studies reported that the direct transformation of one differentiated somatic cell type into another is possible. In the present study, we were able to modulate the cell fate of somatic cells to take on male germ cell function by introducing cell extracts derived from porcine testis tissue. Fibroblasts were treated with streptolysin O, which reversibly permeabilises the plasma membrane, and incubated with testis extracts. Our results showed that the testis extracts (TE) could activate expression of male germ cell-specific genes, implying that TE can provide regulatory components required for altering the cell fate of fibroblasts. Male germ cell function was sustained for more than 10 days after the introduction of TE. In addition, a single TE-treated cell was injected directly into the cytoplasm of in vitro-matured porcine oocytes. The rate of blastocyst formation was significantly higher in the TE-treated nuclear donor cell group than in the control cell group. The expression level of Nanog, Sox9 and Eomes was drastically increased when altered cells were used as donor nuclei. Our results suggest that TE can be used to alter the cell fate of fibroblasts to express male germ cell function and improve the developmental efficiency of the nuclear transfer porcine embryos.
An effective Th1 type cell-mediated immune response against cancer cells is critical in limiting cancer progression. Gadd45b, a signaling molecule highly up-regulated during Th1 type responses, is studied for its role in limiting tumor growth. Mouse B16 melanoma cells implanted into Gadd45b(-/-) mice grew faster than those in WT or Gadd45b(+/-) littermate controls. The defect of Gadd45b(-/-) mice in tumor immunosurveillance was attributed to the reduced expression of IFN-gamma, granzyme B, and CCR5 in Gadd45b(-/-) CD8(+) T cells at the tumor site. Activation of p38 MAP kinase, but not ERK or JNK, by either TCR-stimuli or IL-12 and IL-18 is diminished in Gadd45b(-/-) CD8(+) T cells, resulting in reduced production of IFN-gamma. In addition, mRNA of T-bet and Eomes were reduced in Gadd45b(-/-) CD8(+) T cells, supporting a critical role of Gadd45b in shaping the Th1 fate. More importantly, the tumor vaccination, which is effective in WT mice, failed in Gadd45b/Gadd45g doubly deficient mice. Collectively, these data demonstrate that members of the Gadd45 gene family are important for anti-tumor immune responses.
Expression of cyclins D1 (cD1) and D2 (cD2) in ventricular zone and subventricular zone (SVZ), respectively, suggests that a switch to cD2 could be a requisite step in the generation of cortical intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs). However, direct evidence is lacking. Here, cD1 or cD2 was seen to colabel subsets of Pax6-expressing radial glial cells (RGCs), whereas only cD2 colabeled with Tbr2. Loss of IPCs in cD2(-/-) embryonic cortex and analysis of expression patterns in mutant embryos lacking cD2 or Tbr2 indicate that cD2 is used as progenitors transition from RGCs to IPCs and is important for the expansion of the IPC pool. This was further supported by the laminar thinning, microcephaly, and selective reduction in the cortical SVZ population in the cD2(-/-)cortex. Cell cycle dynamics between embryonic day 14-16 in knock-out lines showed preserved parameters in cD1 mutants that induced cD2 expression, but absence of cD2 was not compensated by cD1. Loss of cD2 was associated with reduced proliferation and enhanced cell cycle exit in embryonic cortical progenitors, indicating a crucial role of cD2 for the support of cortical IPC divisions. In addition, knock-out of cD2, but not cD1, affected both G(1)-phase and also S-phase duration, implicating the importance of these phases for division cycles that expand the progenitor pool. That cD2 was the predominant D-cyclin expressed in the human SVZ at 19-20 weeks gestation indicated the evolutionary importance of cD2 in larger mammals for whom expansive intermediate progenitor divisions are thought to enable generation of larger, convoluted, cerebral cortices.
A third signal that can be provided by IL-12 or type I IFN is required for differentiation of naive CD8 T cells responding to Ag and costimulation. The cytokines program development of function and memory within 3 days of initial stimulation, and we show here that programming involves regulation of a common set of approximately 355 genes including T-bet and eomesodermin. Much of the gene regulation program is initiated in response to Ag and costimulation within 24 h but is then extinguished unless a cytokine signal is available. Histone deacetylase inhibitors mimic the effects of IL-12 or type I IFN signaling, indicating that the cytokines relieve repression and allow continued gene expression by promoting increased histone acetylation. In support of this, increased association of acetylated histones with the promoter loci of granzyme B and eomesodermin is shown to occur in response to IL-12, IFN-alpha, or histone deacetylase inhibitors. Thus, IL-12 and IFN-alpha/beta enforce in common a complex gene regulation program that involves, at least in part, chromatin remodeling to allow sustained expression of a large number of genes critical for CD8 T cell function and memory.
In contrast to CD4 T cells, CD8 T cells inherently differentiate into IFN-gamma-producing effectors. Accordingly, while generation of IFN-gamma-producing Th1 CD4 T cells was profoundly impaired in mice deficient for both type-I IFN and IL-12 signaling in response to infection with Listeria monocytogenes, generation of Ag-specific, IFN-gamma-producing CD8 T cells was unimpaired. However, a fraction of these CD8 T cells also produced IL-17 in an IL-23-dependent manner. Furthermore, the addition of IL-23 in vitro was sufficient for some naive CD8 T cells to differentiate into IFN-gamma/IL-17 dual-producing cells and was associated with increased expression of ROR-gammat and ROR-alpha. Addition of IL-6 and TGF-beta to IL-23 further augmented ROR-gammat and ROR-alpha expression and suppressed Eomes expression, thereby enhancing IL-17 production by CD8 T cells. A loss of cytotoxic function accompanied the production of IL-17, as the addition of IL-6 and TGF-beta resulted in a marked reduction of granzyme B and perforin expression. Thus, CD8 T cells retain sufficient plasticity to respond to environmental cues and can acquire additional effector functions in response to their environmental context.
Epilepsy is the most common neurological disorder affecting young people. The etiologies are multiple and most cases are sporadic. However, some rare families with Mendelian inheritance have provided evidence of genes' important role in epilepsy. Two important but apparently different groups of disorders have been extensively studied: epilepsies associated with malformations of cortical development (MCDs) and epilepsies associated with a structurally normal brain (or with minimal abnormalities only). This review is focused on clinical and molecular aspects of focal cortical dysplasia, polymicrogyria, periventricular nodular heterotopia, subcortical band heterotopia, lissencephaly and schizencephaly as examples of MCDs. Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, childhood absence epilepsy, some familial forms of focal epilepsy and epilepsies associated with febrile seizures are discussed as examples of epileptic conditions in (apparently) structurally normal brains.
Neural stem cell self-renewal, neurogenesis, and cell fate determination are processes that control the generation of specific classes of neurons at the correct place and time. The transcription factor Pax6 is essential for neural stem cell proliferation, multipotency, and neurogenesis in many regions of the central nervous system, including the cerebral cortex. We used Pax6 as an entry point to define the cellular networks controlling neural stem cell self-renewal and neurogenesis in stem cells of the developing mouse cerebral cortex. We identified the genomic binding locations of Pax6 in neocortical stem cells during normal development and ascertained the functional significance of genes that we found to be regulated by Pax6, finding that Pax6 positively and directly regulates cohorts of genes that promote neural stem cell self-renewal, basal progenitor cell genesis, and neurogenesis. Notably, we defined a core network regulating neocortical stem cell decision-making in which Pax6 interacts with three other regulators of neurogenesis, Neurog2, Ascl1, and Hes1. Analyses of the biological function of Pax6 in neural stem cells through phenotypic analyses of Pax6 gain- and loss-of-function mutant cortices demonstrated that the Pax6-regulated networks operating in neural stem cells are highly dosage sensitive. Increasing Pax6 levels drives the system towards neurogenesis and basal progenitor cell genesis by increasing expression of a cohort of basal progenitor cell determinants, including the key transcription factor Eomes/Tbr2, and thus towards neurogenesis at the expense of self-renewal. Removing Pax6 reduces cortical stem cell self-renewal by decreasing expression of key cell cycle regulators, resulting in excess early neurogenesis. We find that the relative levels of Pax6, Hes1, and Neurog2 are key determinants of a dynamic network that controls whether neural stem cells self-renew, generate cortical neurons, or generate basal progenitor cells, a mechanism that has marked parallels with the transcriptional control of embryonic stem cell self-renewal.
SummaryElongated embryos provide a unique source of information about trophoblastic differentiation, gene expression and maternal-embryonic interactions; however they are difficult and costly to obtain, especially elongated cloned embryos. One alternative is their production in heterologous temporary recipients such as sheep and goats. We aimed to produce elongated bovine cloned embryos using heterologous transfer to temporary recipients. Day-7 cloned cattle blastocysts were transferred to the uteri of ewes and goats and recovered as elongated structures at day 17. We evaluated elongation, length, presence of embryonic disc and expression of several important genes for embryonic development. We also produced homologous (cloned cattle embryos transferred into cattle uteri). Cloned bovine blastocysts were able to proceed with preimplantation development through elongation with high efficiency despite the species to which they were transferred. In qualitative and quantitative RT-PCR experiments we found differences in the pattern of gene expression among embryos recovered from different species. Sox2, Nanog and FGF-4 were markedly deregulated. No previous reports about the expression pattern of the studied genes had been published for elongated bovine cloned embryos produced in intermediate recipients, furthermore, the pattern of expression of Nanog, Oct4, Eomes, Cdx2, IFN-tau, Dicer, FGF-4 and Sox2 shown here are novel for elongated cloned bovine embryos created by hand-made cloning. Our data confirmed that sheep and goats can be used as temporary recipients. This model could serve as a basis for further research on gene expression and cellular changes during bovine peri-implantation development.
We have previously found that certain stem cells that are derived from rat blastocysts and named extraembryonic endoderm precursor (XEN-P) cells show a unique molecular signature sharing some of the characteristics of embryonic stem cells (ES), trophoblast stem cells (TS), and extraembryonic endoderm stem cells (XEN). These XEN-P cells are positive for AP, SSEA1, Oct4, and Rex1 markers similar to ES cells and also express signature markers of TS-eomesodermin (Eomes) and XEN-Gata6. Here we show that these cells integrate into the visceral and parietal extraembryonic endoderm lineages as well as into the inner cell mass (ICM), the primitive endoderm, and the polar and mural trophectoderm (TE) of cultured embryos. In addition, we find that the XEN-P cells colonize yolk sac and contribute to trophoblast lineages of postimplantation embryos following transfer to surrogate mothers. We also find that the XEN-P cell culture propagates by shedding cell clusters into the media in addition to typical expansion of colonies. Interestingly, the cell cultures exist as mixed populations of two interconvertible phenotypes of flat and round cells with preferential expression of stem cell markers Oct4 and SSEA1 in round cells. We believe these cells represent a metastable stage during ICM cellular segregation. These results are important for developing hypotheses of cell fate plasticity in the ICM and provide a model for the study of development and differentiation along the extraembryonic lineages.
Interleukin-17 (IL-17)-secreting CD8(+) T cells have been described, but they have not been thoroughly studied and they do not have a known role in cancer immunotherapy. We skewed CD8(+) T cells to secrete IL-17 through priming in Th17-polarizing conditions. IL-17-producing CD8(+) T cells demonstrated reduced expression of Eomes and diminished cytolytic differentiation in vitro. However, after adoptive transfer, these cells converted to interferon-gamma-producing effector cells and mediated regression of large, established tumors. This improved antitumor immunity was associated with increased expression of IL-7R-alpha, decreased expression of killer cell lectin-like receptor G1, and enhanced persistence of the transferred cells. This report is the first description of a cancer therapy with IL-17-secreting CD8(+) T cells. These findings have implications for the improvement of CD8(+) T cell-based adoptive immunotherapy.
Defining the chromatin modifications and transcriptional mechanisms that direct the development of different T-cell lineages is a major challenge in immunology. The transcriptional coactivators CREB binding protein (CBP) and the closely related p300, which comprise the KAT3 family of histone/protein lysine acetyltransferases, interact with over 50 T-lymphocyte-essential transcriptional regulators. We show here that CBP, but not p300, modulates the thymic development of conventional adaptive T cells versus those having unconventional innate functions. Conditional inactivation of CBP in the thymus yielded CD8 single-positive (SP) thymocytes with an effector-, memory-, or innate-like T-cell phenotype. In this regard, CD8 SP thymocytes in CBP mutant mice were phenotypically similar to those reported for Itk and Rlk protein tyrosine kinase mutants, including the increased expression of the T-cell master regulatory transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes) and the interleukin-2 and -15 receptor beta chain (CD122) and an enhanced ability to rapidly produce gamma interferon. CBP was required for the expression of the Itk-dependent genes Egr2, Egr3, and Il2, suggesting that CBP helps mediate Itk-responsive transcription. CBP therefore defines a nuclear component of the signaling pathways that demarcate the development of innate and adaptive naïve CD8(+) T cells in the thymus.
Amphibian holoblastic cleavage in which all blastomeres contribute to any one of the three primary germ layers has been widely thought to be a developmental pattern in the stem lineage of vertebrates, and meroblastic cleavage to have evolved independently in each vertebrate lineage. In extant primitive vertebrates, agnathan lamprey and basal bony fishes also undergo holoblastic cleavage, and their vegetal blastomeres have been generally thought to contribute to embryonic endoderm. However, the present marker analyses in basal ray-finned fish bichir and agnathan lamprey embryos indicated that their mesoderm and endoderm develop in the equatorial marginal zone, and their vegetal cell mass is extraembryonic nutritive yolk cells, having non-cell autonomous meso-endoderm inducing activity. Eomesodermin (eomes), but not VegT, orthologs are expressed maternally in these animals, suggesting that VegT is a maternal factor for endoderm differentiation only in amphibian. The study raises the viewpoint that the lamprey/bichir type holoblastic development would have been ancestral to extant vertebrates and retained in their stem lineage; amphibian-type holoblastic development would have been acquired secondarily, accompanied by the exploitation of new molecular machinery such as maternal VegT.
The fatal immune dysregulation that sometimes follows EBV infection in boys has been linked to mutations in two X chromosome-encoded genes, SLAM-associated protein (SAP) and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP). In this study we describe 2 girls from a consanguineous Turkish family who died after developing severe immune dysregulation and therapy-resistant EBV-positive B cell proliferation following EBV infection. SNP array-based genome-wide linkage analysis revealed IL-2-inducible T cell kinase (ITK) as a candidate gene for this immunodeficiency syndrome. Both girls harbored a homozygous missense mutation that led to substitution of a highly conserved residue (R335W) in the SH2 domain of ITK. Characteristics of ITK deficiency in mouse models, such as absence of NKT cells and high levels of eomesodermin in CD8+ cells, were seen in either one or both of the girls. Two lines of evidence suggested that R335W caused instability of the ITK protein. First, in silico modeling of the mutant protein predicted destabilization of the SH2 domain. Additionally, Western blot analysis revealed that, unlike wild-type ITK, the R335W mutant was nearly undetectable when expressed in 293 T cells. Our results suggest that ITK deficiency causes what we believe to be a novel immunodeficiency syndrome that leads to a fatal inadequate immune response to EBV. Because ITK deficiency resembles EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders in boys, we suggest that this molecular cause should be considered during diagnosis and treatment.
Prostaglandin E2 is one of several eicosanoid products of the cyclooxygenase isozymes and is a key regulator of innate immune responses; it also possesses paracrine effects on mature neurons. The prostaglandin E2 receptor family consists of four subtypes of which EP1 and EP2 are known to be expressed by microglia. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced innate immune activation leads to the degeneration of intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs) that are destined for neuronal maturation in the hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ); these cells can be identified by the expression of the transcription factor T-box brain gene 2 (Tbr2). Importantly, depletion of LPS-induced IPCs from the SGZ is suppressed by cyclooxygenase inhibitors. We therefore tested the hypothesis that either EP1 or EP2 is critical to LPS-induced depletion of Tbr2+ IPCs from the SGZ. Expression of either EP1 or EP2 was necessary for Toll-like receptor 4-dependent innate immune-mediated depletion of these Tbr2+ IPCs in mice. Moreover, EP1 activation was directly toxic to murine adult hippocampal progenitor cells; EP2 was not expressed by these cells. Finally, EP1 modulated the response of murine primary microglia cultures to LPS but in a manner distinct from EP2. These results indicate that prostaglandin E2 signaling via either EP1 or EP2 is largely to completely necessary for Toll-like receptor 4-dependent depletion of IPCs from the SGZ and suggest further pharmacological strategies to protect this important neurogenic niche.
CTLA-4 has potent regulatory effects on the threshold of T-cell signalling and, in the process, guards against the development of hyper-proliferation and autoimmunity. Despite this, the role of CTLA-4 on specific T-cell subsets has been unclear. Such studies could shed light on both the function of CTLA-4, and on the contribution of the subsets to the disease phenotype of the Ctla4(-/-) mouse. Recently, a role for this co-receptor in the function of Treg has been outlined and, in this issue of the European Journal of Immunology, the selective targeting of the T-box transcription factor Eomes by CTLA-4 in the regulation of CD8(+) cytolytic T-cell (CTL) effector function is shown. Together, these papers shed light on the role of CTLA-4 in different T-cell subsets.
One outcome of infection is the formation of long-lived immunological memory, which provides durable protection from symptomatic re-infection. In response to infection or vaccination, T cells undergo dramatic proliferation and differentiate into effector T cells that mediate removal of the pathogen. Following pathogen clearance, the majority of effector cells die, restoring lymphocyte homeostasis. However, a small number of antigen-specific cells survive and seed the memory T cell population. Here, we focus on recent advances in identifying the key proteins and transcription factors that allow a portion of effector CD8(+) T cells to persist after contraction of the immune response, forming a memory cell population programmed for long-term self-renewal and survival. We also examine new findings addressing the role of environmental cues such as cytokines and co-stimulatory molecules in CD8(+) memory T cell formation and how the cell-extrinsic cues influence the molecular players of intracellular pathways important for memory formation.
The maturation of naive CD8(+) T cells into effector CTLs is a critical feature of a functional adaptive immune system. Development of CTLs depends, in part, upon the expression of the transcriptional regulator eomesodermin (EOMES), which is thought to regulate expression of two key effector molecules, perforin and granzyme B. Although EOMES is important for effector CTL development, the precise mechanisms regulating CD8(+) effector cell maturation remains poorly understood. In this study, we show that Notch1 regulates the expression of EOMES, perforin, and granzyme B through direct binding to the promoters of these crucial effector molecules. By abrogating Notch signaling, both biochemically as well as genetically, we conclude that Notch activity mediates CTL activity through direct regulation of EOMES, perforin, and granzyme B.
CD8(+) T lymphocytes are required for effective host defense against pathogens and also for mediating effector responses against uncontrolled proliferating self-tissues. In this study, we determine that individual CD8(+) T cells are tightly controlled in their effector functions by CD152 (CTLA-4). We demonstrate that signals induced by CD152 reduce the frequency of IFN-gamma and granzyme B expressing CD8(+) T cells independently of the transcription factors T-bet or cKrox by selectively inhibiting accumulation of Eomesodermin mRNA and protein. Ectopic expression of Eomesodermin reversed the CD152-mediated inhibition of effector molecule production. Additionally, enhanced cytotoxicity of individual CD8(+) T cells differentiated in the absence of CD152 signaling was determined in vivo. These novel insights extend our understanding of how immune responses of CD8(+) T cells are selectively modulated.
Comment in    Eur J Neurosci. 2009 Jan;29(2):231.
The developing cerebral cortex contains apical and basal types of neurogenic progenitor cells. Here, we investigated the cellular properties and neurogenic output of basal progenitors, also called intermediate neuronal progenitors (INPs). We found that basal mitoses expressing transcription factor Tbr2 (an INP marker) were present throughout corticogenesis, from embryonic day 10.5 through birth. Postnatally, Tbr2(+) progenitors were present in the dentate gyrus, subventricular zone (SVZ), and posterior periventricle (pPV). Two morphological subtypes of INPs were distinguished in the embryonic cortex, "short radial" in the ventricular zone (VZ) and multipolar in the SVZ, probably corresponding to molecularly defined INP subtypes. Unexpectedly, many short radial INPs appeared to contact the apical (ventricular) surface and some divided there. Time-lapse video microscopy suggested that apical INP divisions produced daughter INPs. Analysis of neurogenic divisions (Tis21-green fluorescent protein [GFP](+)) indicated that INPs may produce the majority of projection neurons for preplate, deep, and superficial layers. Conversely, proliferative INP divisions (Tis21-GFP(-)) increased from early to middle corticogenesis, concomitant with SVZ growth. Our findings support the hypothesis that regulated amplification of INPs may be an important factor controlling the balance of neurogenesis among different cortical layers.
Activation of naive CD8(+) T cells with antigen induces their differentiation into effector cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTLs). CTLs lyse infected or aberrant target cells by exocytosis of lytic granules containing the pore-forming protein perforin and a family of proteases termed granzymes. We show that effector CTL differentiation occurs in two sequential phases in vitro, characterized by early induction of T-bet and late induction of Eomesodermin (Eomes), T-box transcription factors that regulate the early and late phases of interferon (IFN) gamma expression, respectively. In addition, we demonstrate a critical role for the transcription factor Runx3 in CTL differentiation. Runx3 regulates Eomes expression as well as expression of three cardinal markers of the effector CTL program: IFN-gamma, perforin, and granzyme B. Our data point to the existence of an elaborate transcriptional network in which Runx3 initially induces and then cooperates with T-box transcription factors to regulate gene transcription in differentiating CTLs.
To understand the cellular and molecular mechanisms regulating cytogenesis within the neocortical ventricular zone, we examined at high resolution the spatiotemporal expression patterns of Ngn2 and Tbr2. Individually DiI-labeled daughter cells were tracked from their birth in slice cultures and immunostained for Ngn2 and Tbr2. Both proteins were initially absent from daughter cells during the first 2 h. Ngn2 expression was then initiated asymmetrically in one of the daughter cells, with a bias towards the apical cell, followed by a similar pattern of expression for Tbr2, which we found to be a direct target of Ngn2. How this asymmetric Ngn2 expression is achieved is unclear, but gamma-secretase inhibition at the birth of daughter cells resulted in premature Ngn2 expression, suggesting that Notch signaling in nascent daughter cells suppresses a Ngn2-Tbr2 cascade. Many of the nascent cells exhibited pin-like morphology with a short ventricular process, suggesting periventricular presentation of Notch ligands to these cells.
During early mouse development, the anterior visceral endoderm (AVE) secretes inhibitor and activator signals that are essential for establishing the anterior-posterior (AP) axis of the embryo and for restricting mesoderm formation to the posterior epiblast in the primitive streak (PS) region. Here we show that AVE cells have an additional morphogenetic function. These cells express the transmembrane protein FLRT3. Genetic ablation of FLRT3 did not affect the signaling functions of the AVE according to the normal expression pattern of Nodal and Wnt and the establishment of a proper AP patterning in the epiblast. However, FLRT3(-/-) embryos showed a highly disorganized basement membrane (BM) in the AVE region. Subsequently, adjacent anterior epiblast cells displayed an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-like process characterized by the loss of cell polarity, cell ingression, and the up-regulation of the EMT and the mesodermal marker genes Eomes, Brachyury/T, and FGF8. These results suggest that the AVE acts as a morphogenetic boundary to prevent EMT and mesoderm induction in the anterior epiblast by maintaining the integrity of the BM. We propose that this novel function cooperates with the signaling activities of the AVE to restrict EMT and mesoderm induction to the posterior epiblast.
The lack of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) causes fragile X syndrome, a common form of inherited mental retardation. Our previous studies revealed alterations in the differentiation of FMRP-deficient neural progenitors. Here, we show abnormalities in neurogenesis in the mouse and human embryonic FMRP-deficient brain as well as after in utero transfection of I304N mutated FMRP, which acts in a dominant negative manner in the wild-type mouse brain. Progenitors accumulated abnormally in the subventricular zone of the embryonic Fmr1-knockout (Fmr1-KO) mouse neocortex. An increased density of cells expressing sequentially an intermediate progenitor marker, T-box transcription factor (Tbr2), and a postmitotic neuron marker, T-brain 1 (Tbr1), indicated that the differentiation to glutamatergic cell lineages was particularly disturbed. These abnormalities were associated with an increased density of pyramidal cells of the layer V in the early postnatal neocortex suggesting a role for FMRP in the regulation of the differentiation of neocortical glutamatergic neurons.
Th1 and Th17 cells are crucial in immune regulation and autoimmune disease development. By adding Stat6 deficiency to T-bet deficiency, and thus negating effects from elevated levels of IL-4/Stat6/GATA3 Th2 signals in T-bet-deficient cells, we investigated the signals important for Th1 and Th17 cell differentiation and their role in colitis development. The data reveal that Eomesodermin compensates T-bet deficiency for IFN-gamma and Th1 development. However, without T-bet, IFN-gamma production and Th1 differentiation are susceptible to inhibition by IL-6 and TGFbeta. As a result, Th17 development is strongly favored, the threshold for TGFbeta requirement is lowered, and IL-6 drives Th17 differentiation, elucidating a critical role for T-bet in directing T cell differentiation to Th1 vs Th17. In contrast to IL-6 plus TGFbeta-driven Th17, IL-6-driven Th17 cells do not express IL-10 and they induce a more intense colitis. Naive CD4 T cells deficient in Stat6 and T-bet also induce a Th17-dominant colitis development in vivo. Our data provide new insights into the choice between Th1 and Th17 development and their roles in autoimmunity.
The T-box gene Eomesodermin (Eomes) is required for early embryonic mesoderm differentiation in mouse, frog (Xenopus laevis), and zebrafish, is important in late cardiac development in Xenopus, and for CD8+ T effector cell function in mouse. Eomes can ectopically activate many mesodermal genes. However, the mechanism by which Eomes activates transcription of these genes is poorly understood. We report that Eomes protein interacts with Smad2 and is capable of working in a non-cell autonomous manner via transfer of Eomes protein between adjacent embryonic cells. Blocking of Eomes protein transfer using a farnesylated red fluorescent protein (CherryF) also prevents Eomes nuclear accumulation. Transfer of Eomes protein between cells is mediated by the Eomes carboxyl terminus (456-692). A carbohydrate binding domain within the Eomes carboxyl-terminal region is sufficient for transfer and important for gene activation. We propose a novel mechanism by which Eomes helps effect a cellular response to a morphogen gradient.
The objective of this study was to identify transcription factors associated with differentiation of the chorionic girdle, the invasive form of equine trophoblast. The expression patterns of five transcription factors were determined on a panel of conceptus tissues from early horse pregnancy. Tissues from Days 15 through 46 were tested. Eomesodermin (EOMES), glial cells missing homologue 1 (GCM1), heart and neural crest derivatives expressed transcript 1 (HAND1), caudal type homeobox 2 (CDX2), and distal-less homeobox 3 (DLX3) were detected in horse trophoblast, but the expression patterns for these genes varied. EOMES had the most restricted distribution, while DLX3 CDX2, and HAND1 were widely expressed. GCM1 seemed to increase in the developing chorionic girdle, and this was confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR assays. GCM1 expression preceded a striking increase in expression of equine chorionic gonadotropin beta (CGB) in the chorionic girdle, and binding sites for GCM1 were discovered in the promoter region of the CGB gene. GCM1, CGB, and CGA mRNA were expressed preferentially in binucleate cells as opposed to uninucleate cells of the chorionic girdle. Based on these findings, it is likely that GCM1 has a role in differentiation and function of the invasive trophoblast of the equine chorionic girdle and endometrial cups. The equine binucleate chorionic girdle (CG) secreting trophoblast shares molecular, morphological, and functional characteristics with human syncytiotrophoblast and represents a model for studies of human placental function.
T-brain gene-2 (Tbr2) is specifically expressed in the intermediate (basal) progenitor cells (IPCs) of the developing cerebral cortex; however, its function in this biological context has so far been overlooked due to the early lethality of Tbr2 mutant embryos. Conditional ablation of Tbr2 in the developing forebrain resulted in the loss of IPCs and their differentiated progeny in mutant cortex. Intriguingly, early loss of IPCs led to a decrease in cortical surface expansion and thickness with a neuronal reduction observed in all cortical layers. These findings suggest that IPC progeny contribute to the correct morphogenesis of each cortical layer. Our observations were confirmed by tracing Tbr2+ IPC cell fate using Tbr2::GFP transgenic mice. Finally, we demonstrated that misexpression of Tbr2 is sufficient to induce IPC identity in ventricular radial glial cells (RGCs). Together, these findings identify Tbr2 as a critical factor for the specification of IPCs during corticogenesis.
Mouse ES cells can differentiate into all three germ layers of the embryo but are generally excluded from the trophoblast lineage. Here we show that ES cells deficient in DNA methylation can differentiate efficiently into trophoblast derivatives. In a genome-wide screen we identified the transcription factor Elf5 as methylated and repressed in ES cells, and hypomethylated and expressed in TS and methylation-deficient ES cells. Elf5 creates a positive-feedback loop with the TS cell determinants Cdx2 and Eomes that is restricted to the trophoblast lineage by epigenetic regulation of Elf5. Importantly, the late-acting function of Elf5 allows initial plasticity and regulation in the early blastocyst. Thus, Elf5 functions as a gatekeeper, downstream of initial lineage determination, to reinforce commitment to the trophoblast lineage or to abort this pathway in epiblast cells. This epigenetic restriction of cell lineage fate provides a molecular mechanism for Waddington's concept of canalization of developmental pathways.
The embryonic subventricular zone (SVZ) is a critical site for generating cortical projection neurons; however, molecular mechanisms regulating neurogenesis specifically in the SVZ are largely unknown. The transcription factor Eomes/Tbr2 is transiently expressed in cortical SVZ progenitor cells. Here we demonstrate that conditional inactivation of Tbr2 during early brain development causes microcephaly and severe behavioral deficits. In Tbr2 mutants the number of SVZ progenitor cells is reduced and the differentiation of upper cortical layer neurons is disturbed. Neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus but not the subependymal zone is abolished. These studies establish Tbr2 as a key regulator of neurogenesis in the SVZ.
When intracellular pathogens invade mammalian hosts, naïve CD8+ T cells differentiate into cytotoxic killers, which lyse infected target cells and secrete cytokines that activate intracellular microbicides. We show that CD8+ T cells deficient in the transcription factors T-bet and eomesodermin (Eomes) fail to differentiate into functional killers required for defense against lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus. Instead, virus-specific CD8+ T cells lacking both T-bet and Eomes differentiate into an interleukin-17-secreting lineage, reminiscent of the helper T cell fate that has been implicated in autoimmunity and extracellular microbial defense. Upon viral infection, mice with T cells lacking both T-bet and Eomes develop a CD8+ T cell-dependent, progressive inflammatory and wasting syndrome characterized by multi-organ infiltration of neutrophils. T-bet and Eomes, thus, ensure that CD8+ T cells adopt an appropriate course of intracellular rather than extracellular destruction.
To understand the mechanism regulating the effector function of memory CD8 T cells, we examined expression and chromatin state of a key transcription factor (eomesodermin, EOMES) and two of its targets: perforin (PRF1) and granzyme B (GZMB). Accessible chromatin associated histone 3 lysine 9 acetylation (H3K9Ac) was found significantly higher at the proximal promoter and the first exon region of all three genes in memory CD8 T cells than in naive CD8 T cells. Correspondingly, EOMES and PRF1 were constitutively higher expressed in memory CD8 T cells than in naive CD8 T cells at resting and activated states. In contrast, higher expression of GZMB was induced in memory CD8 T cells than in naive CD8 T cells only after activation. Regardless of their constitutive or inducible expression, decreased H3K9Ac levels after treatment with a histone acetyltransferase inhibitor (Curcumin) led to decreased expression of all three genes in activated memory CD8 T cells. These findings suggest that H3K9Ac associated accessible chromatin state serves as a corner stone for the differentially high expression of these effector genes in memory CD8 T cells. Thus, epigenetic changes mediated via histone acetylation may provide a chromatin "memory" for the rapid and robust transcriptional response of memory CD8 T cells.
Little is understood about the regulation of gene expression in human preimplantation embryos. We set out to examine the expression in human preimplantation embryos of a number of genes known to be critical for early development of the murine embryo. The expression profile of these genes was analysed throughout preimplantation development and in response to growth factor (GF) stimulation. Developmental expression of a number of genes was similar to that seen in murine embryos (OCT3B/4, CDX2, NANOG). However, GATA6 is expressed throughout preimplantation development in the human. Embryos were cultured in IGF-I, leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) or heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor (HBEGF), all of which are known to stimulate the development of human embryos. Our data show that culture in HBEGF and LIF appears to facilitate human embryo expression of a number of genes: ERBB4 (LIF) and LIFR and DSC2 (HBEGF) while in the presence of HBEGF no blastocysts expressed EOMES and when cultured with LIF only two out of nine blastocysts expressed TBN. These data improve our knowledge of the similarities between human and murine embryos and the influence of GFs on human embryo gene expression. Results from this study will improve the understanding of cell fate decisions in early human embryos, which has important implications for both IVF treatment and the derivation of human embryonic stem cells.
Neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus is a highly regulated process that originates from multipotent progenitors in the subgranular zone (SGZ). Currently, little is known about molecular mechanisms that regulate proliferation and differentiation in the SGZ. To study the role of transcription factors (TFs), we focused on Tbr2 (T-box brain gene 2), which has been implicated previously in developmental glutamatergic neurogenesis. In adult mouse hippocampus, Tbr2 protein and Tbr2-GFP (green fluorescent protein) transgene expression were specifically localized to intermediate-stage progenitor cells (IPCs), a type of transit amplifying cells. The Tbr2+ IPCs were highly responsive to neurogenic stimuli, more than doubling after voluntary wheel running. Notably, the Tbr2+ IPCs formed cellular clusters, the average size of which (Tbr2+ cells per cluster) likewise more than doubled in runners. Conversely, Tbr2+ IPCs were selectively depleted by antimitotic drugs, known to suppress neurogenesis. After cessation of antimitotic treatment, recovery of neurogenesis was paralleled by recovery of Tbr2+ IPCs, including a transient rebound above baseline numbers. Finally, Tbr2 was examined in the context of additional TFs that, together, define a TF cascade in embryonic neocortical neurogenesis (Pax6 --> Ngn2 --> Tbr2 --> NeuroD --> Tbr1). Remarkably, the same TF cascade was found to be linked to stages of neuronal lineage progression in adult SGZ. These results suggest that Tbr2+ IPCs play a major role in the regulation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis, and that a similar transcriptional program controls neurogenesis in adult SGZ as in embryonic cerebral cortex.
Three major subsets of antigen-experienced T cells have been identified based on surface markers and distinct functional properties: short-lived effector T cells, central memory T cells and effector memory T cells. The precise relationship among these subsets and their mode of differentiation are still controversial. Recent studies, however, have provided compelling evidence for an early delineation of the effector versus memory T-cell fates regulated through specific transcription factors. Cytokines have long been recognized as being important for the shaping of a T-cell response and for the maintenance of memory T cells. The observation that short-lived effector and memory T cells, as well as their precursors, express distinct levels of IL7R has provided an important tool to examine the role that cytokines play in the programming of T-cell differentiation pathways and of the transcriptional regulators that guide these processes. IL2 and IL12 in particular have been shown to provide the signals that induce or repress transcription factors, such as T-bet, Eomes and Blimp-1, all of which are crucial in the differentiation and homoeostasis of effector and memory T cells. The coordinated differentiation of a heterogeneous population of antigen-specific T cells early during an immune response is essential for the effective eradication of pathogens and the long-term protection against reinfection. Thus, understanding the signals and transcriptional programmes in T-cell differentiation is a key to successful manipulation of T-cell responses during vaccination.
In Xenopus laevis, we analyzed the origin of the projection neurons and interneurons in the developing olfactory bulbs by studying the expression patterns of the genes x-Eomes, x-Lhx5, x-Dll3 and x-Pax6. Olfactory bulb interneurons were characterized by using four conserved molecular markers for distinct subpopulations: gamma-aminobutyric acid, calretinin, calbindin, and tyrosine hydroxylase. Immunohistochemistry was combined with tract-tracing experiments to demonstrate the projection neurons and the interneurons of the olfactory bulbs simultaneously. Taken together, the results showed: (1) the pallial nature of the olfactory bulb and its projection neurons in Xenopus, like in mammals with comparable central projection areas, (2) the subpallial origin of the interneurons that, most likely, follow migratory pathways comparable to those described for mammals, (3) the different interneuron types possess neurochemical characteristics similar to mammals. Therefore, the present results show that the origin, chemoarchitecture and central connections of the olfactory bulbs are highly conserved in evolution.
Comment in    Blood. 2008 Jun 1;111(11):5268-9.
Trichostatin A (TSA) is the most potent histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor known. We previously reported that treatment of mouse somatic cell nuclear-transferred (SCNT) oocytes with TSA significantly increased the blastocyst rate, blastocyst cell number, and full-term development. How TSA enhances the epigenetic remodeling ability of somatic nuclei and the expression of development-related genes, however, is not known. In the present study, we compared the expression patterns of nine genes involved in chromatin structure and DNA methylation, and seven development-related genes in blastocysts developed from SCNT oocytes treated with and without TSA, and in blastocysts developed in vivo and in vitro using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. In vivo-recovered blastocysts and blastocysts developed from TSA-treated SCNT oocytes exhibited similar expression patterns for Hdac1, 2, and 3, CBP, PCAF, and Dnmt3b genes compared with in vitro-developed blastocysts and blastocysts developed from SCNT oocytes without TSA treatment. There were significantly lower expression levels of Hdac1 and Hdac2 transcripts in TSA-treated and in vivo-recovered blastocysts than in TSA-untreated and in vitro-developed blastocysts. The finding that TSA treatment of SCNT oocytes significantly upregulated Sox2 and cMyc transcripts in blastocysts indicated that both transcripts are TSA-responsive genes. Thus, TSA treatment of mouse SCNT oocytes decreased the expression of chromatin structure- and DNA methylation-related genes, and increased the expression of Sox2 and cMyc genes in blastocysts. Such modifications might be a reason for the high developmental potential of mouse SCNT oocytes treated with TSA.
We examined the brain expression patterns of zebrafish genes Lhx6, Lhx7, Dlx2a, GAD67, and Tbr2/eomesa; except for GAD67, expression domains are restricted to the forebrain. In particular, a distribution of transcripts in the early zebrafish telencephalon comparable to that of tetrapods is revealed. Expression domains of Lhx6 and Lhx7 are restricted to a ventral subdivision (Sdv) of the precommissural dorsal subpallium, interpreted here as the homologue of the mammalian medial ganglionic eminence (the adult pallidum in mammals). In contrast, there is no such expression in the dorsal subdivision (Sdd) of the dorsal subpallium, interpreted here as the homologue of the mammalian lateral ganglionic eminence (the adult caudatoputamen in mammals). The Lhx6 and Lhx7 genes are furthermore expressed in the zebrafish ventral subpallium (Sv, septum), and in the supra-/postcommissurally lying posterior subdivision of the dorsal subpallium (Sdp; possible homologue of the subpallial amygdala). Also in support of this comparative interpretation, Dlx2a is generally expressed in all of the subpallium, including the ventricular zones of (all three subvidisions of) the dorsal as well as of the ventral subpallium. In contrast, Tbr2 is expressed in all of the zebrafish pallium and in a restricted zone of the ventral subpallium, comparable to the known restricted septal expression in mammals. The telencephalic expression of GAD67 largely coincides with that of Dlx2a. However, GAD67-positive cells migrate (radially) into postmitotic zones of the peripheral subpallium (as does Dlx2a and Lhx6) as well as (tangentially) into pallial zones (as does Dlx2a, but not Lhx6).
The T-box transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes) has been implicated as an important component in germ layer induction and patterning in vertebrate embryos. In the mouse, Eomes is essential for development of the trophectoderm lineage and Eomes loss-of-function mutants arrest at implantation. Here, we have used a novel Eomes conditional allele to test Eomes functions in the embryo proper. Eomes-deficient embryos express both Fgf8 and its downstream target Snail at normal levels but surprisingly fail to downregulate E-cadherin. Eomes functional loss thus efficiently and profoundly blocks EMT and concomitant mesoderm delamination. Marker analysis as well as fate-mapping and chimera studies demonstrate for the first time that Eomes is required for specification of the definitive endoderm lineage. We also describe developmental abnormalities in Eomes/Nodal double heterozygotes, and demonstrate that these phenotypes reflect Eomes and Nodal interactions in different tissue sites. Collectively, our experiments establish that Eomes is a key regulator of anteroposterior axis formation, EMT and definitive endoderm specification in the mouse.
E. coli AlkB has been intensively studied since 1983, but the in vivo roles of its mammalian homologue Alkbh1 are unknown. We, therefore, created null mice for Alkbh1. Alkbh1 mRNA is expressed at highest levels in the trophoblast lineages of the developing placenta. Alkbh1(-/-) placentas have decreased expression of differentiated trophoblast markers including Tpbp, Gcm1, and Pl-1, and increased expression of the trophoblast stem cell marker Eomes. Alkbh1 localizes to nuclear euchromatin, and interacts strongly with Mrj, an essential placental gene that mediates gene repression by recruitment of class II histone deacetylases (HDACs). Competition experiments show Alkbh1 and HDAC4 binding to Mrj are mutually exclusive, which causes decreased HDAC activity and increased target gene expression. Our study demonstrates Alkbh1 performs important functions in placental trophoblast lineage differentiation and participates in mechanisms of transcriptional regulation.
Human inner cell mass (ICM) cells isolated from in vitro fertilized blastocysts are the progenitor cells used to establish in vitro stable human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) which are pluripotent and self-renew indefinitely. This long-term perpetuation of hESCs in the undifferentiated state is thought to be an in vitro adaptation of the ICM cells. To investigate at the molecular level how hESCs acquired their unique properties, transcriptional profiles of isolated ICM cells and undifferentiated hESCs were compared. We identified 33 genes enriched in the ICM compared to the trophectoderm and hESCs. These genes are involved in signaling cascades (SEMA7A and MAP3K10), cell proliferation (CUZD1 and MS4A7) and chromatin remodeling (H1FOO and HRMT1L4). Furthermore, primordial germ cell-specific genes (SGCA and TEX11) were detected as expressed in the ICM cells and not hESCs. We propose that the transcriptional differences observed between ICM cells and hESCs might be accounted for by adaptive reprogramming events induced by the in vitro culture conditions which are distinct from that of in vitro fertilized blastocysts. hESCs are a distinct cell type lacking in the human embryo but, nonetheless, resemble the ICM in their ability to differentiate into cells representative of the endodermal, ectodermal and mesodermal cell lineages.
During pre-implantation mouse development, embryos form blastocysts with establishment of the first two cell lineages: the trophectoderm (TE) which gives rise to the placenta, and the inner cell mass (ICM) which will form the embryo proper. Differentiation of TE is regulated by the transcription factor Caudal-related homeobox 2 (Cdx2), but the mechanisms which act upstream of Cdx2 expression remain unknown. Here we show that the TEA domain family transcription factor, Tead4, is required for TE development. Tead1, Tead2 and Tead4 were expressed in pre-implantation embryos, and at least Tead1 and Tead4 were expressed widely in both TE and ICM lineages. Tead4-/- embryos died at pre-implantation stages without forming the blastocoel. The mutant embryos continued cell proliferation, and adherens junction and cell polarity were not significantly affected. In Tead4-/- embryos, Cdx2 was weakly expressed at the morula stage but was not expressed in later stages. None of the TE specific genes, including Eomes and a Cdx2 independent gene, Fgfr2, was detected in Tead4-/- embryos. Instead, the ICM specific transcription factors, Oct3/4 and Nanog, were expressed in all the blastomeres. Tead4-/- embryos also failed to differentiate trophoblast giant cells when they were cultured in vitro. ES cells with normal in vitro differentiation abilities were established from Tead4-/- embryos. These results suggest that Tead4 has a distinct role from Tead1 and Tead2 in trophectoderm specification of pre-implantation embryos, and that Tead4 is an early transcription factor required for specification and development of the trophectoderm lineage, which includes expression of Cdx2.
The mechanisms regulating retinal ganglion cell (RGC) development are crucial for retinogenesis and for the establishment of normal vision. However, these mechanisms are only vaguely understood. RGCs are the first neuronal lineage to segregate from pluripotent progenitors in the developing retina. As output neurons, RGCs display developmental features very distinct from those of the other retinal cell types. To better understand RGC development, we have previously constructed a gene regulatory network featuring a hierarchical cascade of transcription factors that ultimately controls the expression of downstream effector genes. This has revealed the existence of a Pou domain transcription factor, Pou4f2, that occupies a key node in the RGC gene regulatory network and that is essential for RGC differentiation. However, little is known about the genes that connect upstream regulatory genes, such as Pou4f2 with downstream effector genes responsible for RGC differentiation. The purpose of this study was to characterize the retinal function of eomesodermin (Eomes), a T-box transcription factor with previously unsuspected roles in retinogenesis. We show that Eomes is expressed in developing RGCs and is a mediator of Pou4f2 function. Pou4f2 directly regulates Eomes expression through a cis-regulatory element within a conserved retinal enhancer. Deleting Eomes in the developing retina causes defects reminiscent of those in Pou4f2(-/-) retinas. Moreover, myelin ensheathment in the optic nerves of Eomes(-/-) embryos is severely impaired, suggesting that Eomes regulates this process. We conclude that Eomes is a crucial regulator positioned immediately downstream of Pou4f2 and is required for RGC differentiation and optic nerve development.
We used transgenic zebrafish expressing GFP or YFP in subpopulations of neurons to study the migration, homing process and axon extension of groups of CNS neurons in different regions of the zebrafish brain. We found that extensive migration takes place at all levels of the CNS and gives rise to nuclei or cell populations with specific identities. Here, we describe 4 previously unknown or only partially characterized migratory events taking place in the zebrafish telencephalon and rhombic lip, using 3 different transgenic lines, and identify the phenotypes of the cells undertaking these migrations. The migration of a subgroup of mitral cell precursors from the dorsocaudal telencephalon to the olfactory bulb, visualized in the tg(tbr1:YFP) transgenic line, is coupled with morphogenetic transformation of the dorsal telencephalon. The tg(1.4dlx5a-6a:GFP) transgenic line provides a means to analyze the migration of GABAergic interneurons from the ventral to the dorsal telencephalon, thus extending the occurrence of this migration to another vertebrate. The tg(Xeom:GFP) transgenic line provides the first demonstration of the dorsoventral migration of glutamatergic septal neurons, present in mammals and now described in fish, thus reconciling the contrasting evidence of dorsal patterning genes (tbr1, eomes) expressed in a ventral cell population. Furthermore, migration studies in the tg(1.4dlx5a-6a:GFP) and tg(Xeom:GFP) lines help determine the origin of 2 important cell populations in the fish cerebellum: projection neurons and Purkinje cells. These examples reinforce the concept that migratory events contribute to the distribution of cell types with diverse identities through the CNS and that zebrafish transgenic lines represent excellent tools to study these events.
The body tends to maintain a relatively constant number of peripheral T cells, a phenomenon termed T cell homeostasis. Homeostasis is controlled by the coordinated activity of extrinsic regulation, most notably through cytokines of the common gamma chain (cgammaC) family and intrinsic regulation by transcription factors. Whereas the former mechanism has been extensively studied and is relatively well characterized, the transcription factors that govern the homeostasis of late-stage effector and memory T cells have been less well defined but include regulators such as T-bet, Eomes, Bcl6, and Id2. The transcriptional repressor, Blimp-1 is well known as a master regulator of the terminal differentiation of B cells into antibody secreting plasma cells. Recent experiments have now revealed that Blimp-1 is also a key regulator of T cell differentiation. Blimp-1 is expressed in differentiated effector T cells and controls their homeostasis. Interestingly, Blimp-1 expression is controlled by the same cgammaC cytokines that regulate T cell homeostasis suggesting a direct link between the extrinsic and intrinsic arms of the process.
The first lineage decision during mouse development is the establishment of trophectoderm and inner cell mass lineages, morphologically distinguishable at the blastocyst stage. The Caudal-like transcription factor Cdx2 is required for repression of inner cell mass genes Oct4 and Nanog in the trophectoderm. Expression of Cdx2 in the trophectoderm is thus one of the earliest known events in lineage determination. However, it is not clear whether the Cdx2 expression pattern is the cause or the consequence of this first lineage decision. Here, we show that Cdx2 is initially ubiquitously expressed, and becomes progressively upregulated in outside, future trophectoderm cells prior to blastocyst formation. Ubiquitous Cdx2 expression begins around the time of cell polarization, but we show that cell polarization is independent of zygotic Cdx2. Finally, we show functionally that Cdx2 is downstream of lineage allocation since Cdx2 mutant cells, which show cell-autonomous defects in expression of Oct4, Nanog, and the trophectoderm marker Eomesodermin, do not preferentially contribute to inner cell mass in chimeric blastocysts. Cdx2 therefore appears to act downstream of the first lineage decision, suggesting that processes influencing lineage allocation or morphogenesis may regulate Cdx2 expression along the inside/outside axis of the embryo.
Recently, we identified two subsets of CCR7(-) memory CD8(+) T cells expressing high and low levels of the IL-7R alpha-chain (IL-7Ralpha) that is essential for memory T cell survival in human peripheral blood. IL-7Ralpha(low)CCR7(-) memory CD8(+) T cells that produce effector cytokines and perforin have impaired proliferation and survival in response to TCR triggering and IL-7, respectively. These findings raise a question of how such cells are sustained at significant numbers, >20% of peripheral CD8(+) T cells, despite impaired IL-7- and TCR-mediated cell maintenance. In this study, we demonstrate that IL-7Ralpha(low)CCR7(-) memory CD8(+) T cells have increased expression of IL-2/15R beta-chain (IL-2/15Rbeta), which is critical for IL-15 signaling, with enhanced gene expression of T box expressed in T cells (T-bet) and eomesodermin (eomes), transcriptional factors involved in IL-2/15Rbeta expression compared with IL-7Ralpha(high)CCR7(-) memory CD8(+) T cells. Such a cytokine chain is functional as IL-7Ralpha(low)CCR7(-) memory CD8(+) T cells proliferate considerably in response to IL-15. Furthermore, adding IL-15 to TCR triggering recovers impaired TCR-mediated proliferation of IL-7Ralpha(low) memory CD8(+) T cells via restoring the activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway. These findings indicate that IL-15 has dual roles in maintaining IL-7Ralpha(low)CCR7(-) memory CD8(+) T cells via TCR-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Moreover, IL-15 can be useful in reviving impaired proliferative function of such memory CD8(+) T cells with effector functions against infections and tumors via rescuing the PI3K/AKT pathway.
Germ cell tumors (GCTs) are the most common solid malignancy in young adult men, but the genes and genomic regions involved in their etiology are not fully defined. We report here an investigation of DNA copy number changes in GCTs using 1 Mb BAC arrays. As expected, 12p gain was the defining genomic alteration, occurring in 72/74 GCTs. Parallel expression profiling of these tumors identified potential oncogenes from gained regions (LYN and RAB25) and potential tumor suppressor genes in regions of loss (SYNPO2, TTC12, IGSF4, and EPB41L3). Notably, we observed specific genomic alterations associated with histology, including gain of 17p11.2-q21.32 and loss of 2p25.3 in embryonal carcinoma, gain of 8p23.3-12 and loss of 5p15.33-35.3, 11q23.1-25, and 13q12.11-34 in seminoma, and gain of 1q31.3-42.3, 3p, 14q11.2-32.33, and 20q and loss of 8q11.1-23.1 in yolk sac tumors (YST). Many significant genes that mapped to these regions had previously been associated with specific histologies, such as EOMES (chr3) and BMP2 (chr20) in YST and SPRY2 (chr13) and SOX17 (chr8) in seminomas. Additionally, our results suggest a model in which histologic differentiation of GCTs may drive genomic evolution.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: An efficient cytolytic T cell function is essential for immune mediated rejection of colorectal cancer. However, the molecular mechanisms driving T cell mediated cancer rejection are still poorly understood. Here, we assessed the relevance of the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin in colorectal cancer. METHODS/ RESULTS: By analysing tissue probes from 88 different colorectal tumours, a significant (p<0.02) inverse correlation between eomesodermin expression in colorectal cancers and the presence of lymph node metastases could be shown, whereas no such correlation was noted for the master transcription factor of regulatory T cells, FoxP3 and CD8 alpha expression. To evaluate whether this effect might be due to effects of eomesodermin on tumour infiltrating CD8 T cells, we subsequently analysed the regulated expression and function of this transcription factor in human T cells. Whereas overexpression of this factor induced perforin but not granzyme expression, siRNA mediated suppression of eomesodermin expression led to significantly reduced IFN-gamma production, perforin levels and cytolytic activity of CD8 T cells. Furthermore, TGF-beta and IL4 could be identified as important inducer of eomesodermin expression.CONCLUSION: These data define for the first time a regulatory role of eomesodermin for CD8 T cell activity in humans. Our findings are consistent with a model in which eomesodermin expression in tumour infiltrating T cells regulates cytolytic functions of CD8 T cells via perforin expression. These data provide novel insights into control mechanisms governing the functional activity of human CD8 T lymphocytes via T-box transcription factors in cancer.
Although there is a criticism that embryonic stem (ES) cell differentiation does not always reflect the differentiation process involved in mouse development, it is a suitable model system to dissect the specific differentiation pathway. We established the culture conditions that selectively differentiated mouse ES cells into three germ layers containing mesendoderm, definitive endoderm (DE), visceral endoderm (VE), mesoderm, and neuroectoderm. However, the molecular mechanisms of differentiation under each specific condition still remain unclear. Here, in combination with the RNA interference-mediated gene knockdown (KD) method, we show that Eomesodermin (Eomes), Mixl1, Brachyury (T), and GATA6 are major molecular determinants in the differentiation of mesendoderm, DE, VE, and mesoderm. Eomes plays a pivotal role in an early stage of mesendoderm differentiation, whereas Mixl1 does the same in the later stage where mesendoderm differentiates into DE. Further analyses of quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and overexpression of Mixl1 demonstrated that Mixl1 is genetically a downstream molecule of Eomes. In addition, both Eomes and Mixl1 act as negative regulators of T expression. This strategy also reveals that Eomes and T play cell-autonomous roles in platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRalpha)+ vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2)+ and PDGFRalpha+ mesoderm generations, respectively. Our results obtained from this study are fully consistent with previous knockout studies of those genes. The present study, therefore, demonstrates that the major molecular mechanism underlying in vitro ES cell differentiation largely recapitulates that in actual embryogenesis, and the combination of our culture system and RNAi-mediated gene KD is an useful tool to elucidate the molecular hierarchy in in vitro ES cell differentiation. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
Transcription factors play a crucial role during hematopoiesis by orchestrating lineage commitment and determining cellular fate. Although tight regulation of transcription factor expression appears to be essential, little is known about the epigenetic mechanisms involved in transcription factor gene regulation. We have analyzed DNA methylation profiles of 13 key transcription factor genes in primary cells of the hematopoietic cascade, lymphoma cell lines and lymph node biopsies of diffuse large B-cell- and T-cell-non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients. Several of the transcription factor genes (SPI1, GATA3, TCF-7, Etv5, c-maf and TBX21) are differentially methylated in specific cell lineages and stages of the hematopoietic cascade. For some genes, such as SPI1, Etv5 and Eomes, we found an inverse correlation between the methylation of the 5' untranslated region and expression of the associated gene suggesting that these genes are regulated by DNA methylation. Differential methylation is not limited to cells of the healthy hematopoietic cascade, as we observed aberrant methylation of c-maf, TCF7, Eomes and SPI1 in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas. Our results suggest that epigenetic remodelling of transcription factor genes is a frequent mechanism during hematopoietic development. Aberrant methylation of transcription factor genes is frequently observed in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas and might have a functional role during tumorigenesis.
Expression of T-box family member Eomesodermin (Tbr2) is spatiotemporally restricted in the mouse embryo; initially expressed in extraembryonic lineages in the sequential progression from the trophectoderm of the blastocyst, its derivatives the extraembryonic ectoderm, and thereafter the chorion, in addition to the visceral endoderm and primitive streak at gastrula stages, and the telencephalon at later stages. We describe the spatiotemporal expression of GFP in embryos of a Tg(Eomes::GFP) BAC transgenic strain, and have compared it with the localization of endogenous Eomes transcripts and protein. Our analysis reveals the following: (1) robust easily visualized reporter expression in live hemizygous transgenic embryos, (2) increased levels of expression in live homozygous transgenic embryos that are compatible with embryo viability, and (3) a close correlation between endogenous Eomes and GFP reporter expression in BAC transgenic embryos. These features establish the Tg(Eomes::GFP) BAC transgenic strain as a novel reagent for both live imaging and the isolation of Eomes expressing cells from specific locations within the embryo.
Neural progenitor proliferation and migration influence brain size during neurogenesis. We report an autosomal recessive microcephaly syndrome cosegregating with a homozygous balanced translocation between chromosomes 3p and 10q, and we show that a position effect at the breakpoint on chromosome 3 silences the eomesodermin transcript (EOMES), also known as T-box-brain2 (TBR2). Together with the expression pattern of EOMES in the developing human brain, our data suggest that EOMES is involved in neuronal division and/or migration. Thus, mutations in genes encoding not only mitotic and apoptotic proteins but also transcription factors may be responsible for malformative microcephaly syndromes.
Erratum in    J Immunol. 2007 Apr 15;178(8):5401.
JNK1 and JNK2 have distinct effects on activation, differentiation and function of CD8+ T cells. Our early studies demonstrated that JNK1 is required for CD8+ T cell-mediated tumor immune surveillance. However, the role of JNK2 in CD8+ T cell response and effector functions, especially in anti-tumor immune response, is unknown. To define the role of JNK2 in antigen-specific immune response, we have investigated CD8+ T cells from OT-1 CD8+ transgenic mice in response to either high- or low-affinity peptides. JNK2-/- CD8+ T cells proliferated better in response to both peptides, with more cell division and less cell death. In addition, JNK2-/- CD8+ T cells produced higher levels of IFN-gamma, which is associated with increased expression of T-bet and Eomesodermin (Eomes). Moreover, JNK2-/- CD8+ T cells expresses high levels of granzyme B and show increased CTL activity. Finally, the enhanced expansion and effector function of JNK2-/- CD8+ T cells was further evidenced by their capacity to delay tumor growth in vivo. In summary, our results demonstrate that JNK2 negatively regulates antigen-specific CD8+ T cell expansion and effector function, and thus selectively blocking JNK2 in CD8+ T cells may potentially enhance anti-tumor immune response.
IL-15 knockout (KO) mice have severely reduced numbers of TCRgammadelta intestinal intraepithelial T lymphocytes (i-IEL), suggesting requirements of IL-15 signaling in the development or maintenance of i-IEL. To determine an involvement of survival signals via Bcl-2 in IL-15-mediated homeostasis of TCRgammadelta i-IEL, we introduced a bcl-2 transgene into IL-15 KO mice. In situ apoptosis of TCRgammadelta i-IEL was decreased in Bcl-2 transgenic (Tg) x IL-15 KO mice compared with IL-15 KO mice. The enforced expression of Bcl-2 partially restored the numbers of TCRgammadelta i-IEL in IL-15 KO mice. However, effector functions of TCRgammadelta i-IEL, including cytokine production and cytotoxic activity, were not recovered in Bcl-2 Tg x IL-15 KO mice. Importantly, TCRgammadelta i-IEL in Bcl-2 Tg x IL-15 KO mice expressed a reduced level of eomesodermin, a transcription factor critical for effector functions of NK cells and CD8(+) T cells. Similar to the case of TCRgammadelta i-IEL, enforced expression of Bcl-2 restored the numbers but not the functions of NK cells in IL-15 KO mice. These results suggest that Bcl-2-mediated survival signal is involved in the IL-15-mediated homeostasis of TCRgammadelta i-IEL and NK cells, but other signals from IL-15 are critical for inducing transcription factors, such as eomesodermin for their effector functions.
Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a T-box transcription factor that is involved in mesoderm formation in most vertebrates. Eomes is also expressed in CD8+ T cells and NK cells. No information is available on the role of Eomes in the immune system of lower vertebrates to date, although developmental studies on Eomes (Eomes1) have been performed in zebrafish. Here we report the identification of a second Eomes (Eomes2) in zebrafish and compare expression of the two Eomes genes in the immune system. Zebrafish Eomes1 and Eomes2, composed of 661 and 534 amino acids, respectively, share 49.3% amino acid identity in their coding regions and 88.7% amino acid identity in their T-box regions. Conserved synteny between regions of the human and zebrafish genomes, gene organization and phylogenetic analysis all indicate that the zebrafish Eomes2 gene is a homologue of mammalian Eomes, as previously found for zebrafish Eomes1. Eomes1 mRNA was found to be expressed in the gonad, body kidney, spleen and gill, while Eomes2 mRNA was not detected in any of these tissues. However, strong expression of both Eomes mRNAs was detected in the leukocytes from the spleen, followed by those from body kidney and peripheral blood, with expression of Eomes1 always stronger than that of Eomes2. RT-PCR analysis of body kidney cells sorted by FACS revealed that Eomes1 was expressed strongly in lymphocytes, weakly in blast cells, and was not expressed in granulocytes, while Eomes2 was expressed weakly in lymphocytes. These results suggest that both Eomes genes are involved in the zebrafish immune response, particularly in lymphocyte function as has been found in mammals.
Cytokines are critical determinants for specification of lineage-defining transcription factors of CD4+ T cell subsets. Little is known, however, about how cytokines regulate expression of T-bet and eomesodermin (Eomes) in effector and memory CD8+ T cells. We now report that IL-12, a signature of cell-mediated immunity, represses Eomes while positively regulating T-bet in effector CD8+ T cells during infection with Listeria monocytogenes. After resolution of infection and abatement of IL-12 signaling, Eomes expression rises whereas T-bet expression declines in memory CD8+ T cells. Eomes becomes derepressed in effector cells by ablation of IL-12 signaling. In the absence of IL-12, the dynamics of clonal expansion and contraction are also perturbed. Together, these results reveal how a pathogen-associated signal, such as IL-12, could act as a switch, regulating appropriate clonal growth and decline while, in parallel, shaping a unique pattern of fate-determining transcription factors.
The POU domain transcription factor OCT4 is a key regulator of pluripotency in the early mammalian embryo and is highly expressed in the inner cell mass of the blastocyst. Consistent with its essential role in maintaining pluripotency, Oct4 expression is rapidly downregulated during formation of the trophoblast lineage. To enhance our understanding of the molecular basis of this differentiation event in humans, we used a functional genomics approach involving RNA interference-mediated suppression of OCT4 function in a human ESC line and analysis of the resulting transcriptional profiles to identify OCT4-dependent genes in human cells. We detected altered expression of >1,000 genes, including targets regulated directly by OCT4 either positively (NANOG, SOX2, REX1, LEFTB, LEFTA/EBAF DPPA4, THY1, and TDGF1) or negatively (CDX2, EOMES, BMP4, TBX18, Brachyury [T], DKK1, HLX1, GATA6, ID2, and DLX5), as well as targets for the OCT4-associated stem cell regulators SOX2 and NANOG. Our data set includes regulators of ACTIVIN, BMP, fibroblast growth factor, and WNT signaling. These pathways are implicated in regulating human ESC differentiation and therefore further validate the results of our analysis. In addition, we identified a number of differentially expressed genes that are involved in epigenetics, chromatin remodeling, apoptosis, and metabolism that may point to underlying molecular mechanisms that regulate pluripotency and trophoblast differentiation in humans. Significant concordance between this data set and previous comparisons between inner cell mass and trophectoderm in human embryos indicates that the study of human ESC differentiation in vitro represents a useful model of early embryonic differentiation in humans.
Many cerebral cortical neurons and glia are produced by apical progenitors dividing at the ventricular surface of the embryonic dorsal telencephalon. Other neurons are produced by basal progenitor cells, which are derived from apical progenitors, dividing away from the ventricular surface. The transcription factor Pax6 is expressed in apical progenitors and is downregulated in basal progenitors, which upregulate the transcription factor Tbr2. Here we show that Pax6(-/-) cells are under-represented in the cortex of Pax6(+/+)<-->Pax6(-/-) chimeras early in corticogenesis, indicating that Pax6 is required for the production of normal numbers of cortical cells. We provide evidence that this underproduction is attributable to an early depletion of the progenitor pool caused by greater than normal proportions of newly divided cells exiting the cell cycle. We show that most progenitor cells dividing away from the ventricular surface in Pax6(-/-) embryos fail to express the transcription factor Tbr2 and that Pax6 is required cell autonomously for Tbr2 expression in the developing cortex of Pax6(+/+)<-->Pax6(-/-) chimeras. Transcription factors normally expressed ventrally in the telencephalic ganglionic eminences (Mash1, Dlx2 and Gsh2) are upregulated cell autonomously in mutant cells in the developing cortex of Pax6(+/+)<-->Pax6(-/-) chimeras; Nkx2.1, which is expressed only in the medial ganglionic eminence, is not. These data indicate that early functions of Pax6 in developing cortical cells are to repress expression of transcription factors normally found in the lateral ganglionic eminence, to prevent precocious differentiation and depletion of the progenitor pool, and to induce normal development of cortical basal progenitor cells.
Unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are glutamatergic interneurons in the cerebellar cortex and dorsal cochlear nucleus. We studied the development of UBCs, using transcription factor Tbr2/Eomes as a marker for UBCs and their progenitors in embryonic and postnatal mouse cerebellum. Tbr2+ UBCs appeared to migrate out of the upper rhombic lip via two cellular streams: a dorsal pathway into developing cerebellar white matter, where the migrating cells dispersed widely before entering the internal granular layer, and a rostral pathway along the cerebellar ventricular zone toward the brainstem. Ablation of the rhombic lip in organotypic slice cultures substantially reduced the production of Tbr2+ UBCs. In coculture experiments, Tbr2+ UBCs migrated from rhombic lip explants directly into the developing white matter of adjacent cerebellar slices. The origin of Tbr2+ UBCs was confirmed by colocalization with beta-galactosidase expressed from the Math1 locus, a molecular marker of rhombic lip lineages. Moreover, the production of Tbr2+ UBCs was Math1 dependent, as Tbr2+ UBCs were severely reduced in Math1-null cerebellum. In reeler mutant mice, Tbr2+ UBCs accumulated near the rhombic lip, consistent with impaired migration through developing white matter. Our results suggest that UBCs arise from the rhombic lip and migrate via novel pathways to their final destinations in the cerebellum and dorsal cochlear nucleus. Our findings support a model of cerebellar neurogenesis, in which glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons are produced from separate progenitor pools located mainly in the rhombic lip and the cerebellar ventricular zone, respectively.
Exposure of naive Th cell precursors (Thp) to IL-21 inhibits IFN-gamma production from developing Th1 cells. The inhibition of IFN-gamma seen in IL-21-treated Thp cells is specific as the expression of other Th1 cytokines is unaffected. Recently, it has been reported that Eomesodermin (Eomes), a member of the T-box gene family, is expressed in developing CD8+ T cells and plays an important role in regulating IFN-gamma production and cytolytic effector function. In this study, we show that Eomes mRNA and protein are also expressed in developing Th1 cells, and exposure of naive Thp cells to IL-21 results in a decrease in Eomes expression. Moreover, the repression of Eomes expression by IL-21 is not due to an indirect effect of IL-21 on the expression of IFN-gamma or STAT4 and is independent of STAT1 and T-bet expression. Finally, we show that ectopic expression of Eomes prevents the inhibition of IFN-gamma production from IL-21-treated Thp cells. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Eomes plays a role in regulating IFN-gamma production in CD4+ T cells and IL-21 inhibits IFN-gamma production in developing Th1 cells through the repression of Eomes expression.
Comment in    Immunity. 2006 Jul;25(1):9-11.
Glutamatergic, pyramidal-projection neurons are produced in the embryonic cerebral cortex by a series of genetically programmed fate choices, implemented in large part by developmental transcription factors. Our work has focused on Pax6, Tbr2/Eomes, NeuroD, and Tbr1, which are expressed sequentially during the neurogenesis of pyramidal-projection neurons. Recently, we have found that the same transcription factors are expressed, in the same order, during glutamatergic neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus, and (with modifications) in the developing cerebellum. While the precise functional significance of this transcription factor expression sequence is unknown, its common appearance in embryonic and adult neurogenesis, and in different brain regions, suggests it is part of a conserved genetic program that specifies general properties of glutamatergic neurons in these regions. Subtypes of glutamatergic neurons (e.g., layer-specific fates in the cortex) are further determined by combinations of transcription factors, superimposed on general sequential programs. These new perspectives on neurogenesis add to the conceptual framework for strategies to engineer neural stem cells for the repair of specific brain circuits.
Embryo implantation in the human and rodents relies on the trophoblast's ability to invade into the uterine stroma, partly depending on proteinases degrading components of basement membrane and underlying extracellular matrix (ECM). We have utilized mouse trophoblast stem (TS) cells (Science, 1998, 282:2072) to study trophoblast invasion and trophoblast-ECM interactions in vitro. On plastic in fibroblast-conditioned medium containing fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-4 and heparin, the cells remain proliferative but display increased differentiation in media without these components. Marker gene expression (Eomes, Pl-1, Tpbp) and invasion assays showed that TS cells exhibit increased invasive capacity when differentiating into giant cells and spongiotrophoblasts in unconditioned media without FGF-4 and heparin. Concomitantly, an up-regulation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-9 and -14 was observed. Culture on gels of the basement membrane-like Matrigel resulted in striking changes in morphology and gene expression. Differentiating TS cells invaded into this ECM in a three-dimensional culture, while in turn ECM contact enhanced differentiation of TS cells and up-regulated the expression of MMP-9 and its tissue inhibitor (TIMP)-3. These findings implicate that the TS cell culture system used in this study can be utilized as a model for studying the regulation of trophoblast-ECM interactions, differentiation, and invasion in vitro.
CD8+ T cells play a crucial role in controlling intracellular pathogens. The level of memory CD8+ T cells developing after vaccination or infection influences the degree of T cell-mediated protection after secondary infection. We used defined animal models and infections/immunizations by replicating or non-replicating antigens to define on a molecular and cellular level in vivo the parameters that identify and shape long-lived CD8+ T cell memory. We show that the timing of antigen exposure during vaccination is key for the induction of long-lived T cell memory. Brief antigen exposure induced high numbers of effector cells but limited development of long-lived CD8+ memory T cells. In contrast, prolonged antigen exposure for up to 9 days induced similar numbers of effector T cells but additionally resulted in high levels of memory CD8+ T cells. Unexpectedly CD127 (IL-7Ralpha) expression on CD8+ T cells during the acute priming phase was a necessary but not sufficient requirement for entering the pool of long-lived antigen-independent memory CD8+ T cells. However, we provide strong evidence for the interpretation that programming of long-lived memory T cells was driven by low levels of transcription factor eomesodermin and protease inhibitor Spi2A as well as reduced phosphorylation of c-JUN.
The deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) are the main output centers of the cerebellum, but little is known about their development. Using transcription factors as cell type-specific markers, we found that DCN neurons in mice are produced in the rhombic lip and migrate rostrally in a subpial stream to the nuclear transitory zone (NTZ). The rhombic lip-derived cells express transcription factors Pax6, Tbr2, and Tbr1 sequentially as they enter the NTZ. A subset of rhombic lip-derived cells also express reelin, a key regulator of Purkinje cell migrations. In organotypic slice cultures, the rhombic lip was necessary and sufficient to produce cells that migrate in the subpial stream, enter the NTZ, and express Pax6, Tbr2, Tbr1, and reelin. In later stages of development, the subpial stream is replaced by the external granular layer, and the NTZ organizes into distinct DCN nuclei. Tbr1 expression persists to adulthood in a subset of medial DCN projection neurons. In reeler mutant mice, which have a severe cerebellar malformation, rhombic lip-derived cells migrated to the NTZ, despite reelin deficiency. Studies in Tbr1 mutant mice suggested that Tbr1 plays a role in DCN morphogenesis but is not required for reelin expression, glutamatergic differentiation, or the initial formation of efferent axon pathways. Our findings reveal underlying similarities in the transcriptional programs for glutamatergic neuron production in the DCN and the cerebral cortex, and they support a model of cerebellar neurogenesis in which glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons are produced from separate progenitor compartments.
The Polycomb group (PcG) encodes an evolutionarily conserved set of chromatin-modifying proteins that are thought to maintain cellular transcriptional memory by stably silencing gene expression. In mouse embryos that are mutated for the PcG protein Eed, X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) is not stably maintained in extra-embryonic tissues. Eed is a component of a histone-methyltransferase complex that is thought to contribute to stable silencing in undifferentiated cells due to its enrichment on the inactive X-chromosome in cells of the early mouse embryo and in stem cells of the extra-embryonic trophectoderm lineage. Here, we demonstrate that the inactive X-chromosome in Eed(-/-) trophoblast stem cells and in cells of the trophectoderm-derived extra-embryonic ectoderm in Eed(-/-) embryos remain transcriptionally silent, despite lacking the PcG-mediated histone modifications that normally characterize the facultative heterochromatin of the inactive X-chromosome. Whereas undifferentiated Eed(-/-) trophoblast stem cells maintained XCI, reactivation of the inactive X-chromosome occurred when these cells were differentiated. These results indicate that PcG complexes are not necessary to maintain transcriptional silencing of the inactive X-chromosome in undifferentiated stem cells. Instead, PcG proteins seem to propagate cellular memory by preventing transcriptional activation of facultative heterochromatin during differentiation.
Trophoblast giant cells are located at the maternal-embryonic interface and have fundamental roles in the invasive and endocrine phenotypes of the rodent placenta. In this report, we describe the experimental modulation of trophoblast stem cell and trophoblast giant cell phenotypes using the Rcho-1 trophoblast cell model. Rcho-1 trophoblast cells can be manipulated to proliferate or differentiate into trophoblast giant cells. Differentiated Rcho-1 trophoblast cells are invasive and possess an endocrine phenotype, including the production of members of the prolactin (PRL) family. Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), a known differentiation-inducing agent, was found to possess profound effects on the in vitro development of trophoblast cells. Exposure to DMSO, at non-toxic concentrations, inhibited trophoblast giant cell differentiation in a dose-dependent manner. These concentrations of DMSO did not significantly affect trophoblast cell proliferation or survival. Trophoblast cells exposed to DMSO exhibited an altered morphology; they were clustered in tightly packed colonies. Trophoblast giant cell formation was disrupted, as was the expression of members of the PRL gene family. The effects of DMSO were reversible. Removal of DMSO resulted in the formation of trophoblast giant cells and expression of the PRL gene family. The phenotype of the DMSO-treated cells was further determined by examining the expression of a battery of genes characteristic of trophoblast stem cells and differentiated trophoblast cell lineages. DMSO treatment had a striking stimulatory effect on eomesodermin expression and a reciprocal inhibitory effect on Hand1 expression. In summary, DMSO reversibly inhibits trophoblast differentiation and induces a quiescent state, which mimics some but not all aspects of the trophoblast stem cell phenotype.
Comment in    Am J Reprod Immunol. 2005 Dec;54(6):321.
Erratum in    Nat Immunol. 2006 Jan;7(1):113.
JNK1 has divergent roles in regulating the effector functions of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. However, the function of JNK1 in tumor immune surveillance is unknown. In this study, we show that similar to IFN-gamma-/- mice, JNK1-/- mice are highly susceptible to tumor development after inoculation of both melanoma cell line B16 and lymphoma cell line EL-4. Using T cell depletion and reconstitution approaches, we show that CD8+ T cells, but not CD4+ T cells, from JNK1-/- mice are responsible for tumor susceptibility. JNK1-/- CD8+ T cells have an intrinsic defect in early IFN-gamma gene transcription and production after activation by either anti-CD3/anti-CD28 Abs or dendritic cells loaded with specific Ag in vitro. The impaired IFN-gamma production in JNK1-/- CD8+ T cells is associated with reduced expression of both T-bet and Eomesodermin, indicating that JNK1 regulates the transcription program of CD8+ T cells. Finally, JNK1-/- CD8+ T cells showed reduced perforin expression and impaired CTL function. Taken together, our results demonstrate that JNK1 plays an important role in tumor immune surveillance through regulating the effector functions of CD8+ T cells.
During human and rodent uterine decidualization, transient but abundant numbers of uterine natural killer (uNK) cells appear, proliferate, and differentiate. uNK cells share features with peripheral NK cells but are specialized to promote interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-mediated, pregnancy-associated, structural changes in maternal placental arteries. In CD8+ T cells and NK cells, the transcription factors T-bet and eomesodermin (Eomes) regulate maturation and effector functions, including IFN-gamma production. No studies are reported for uNK cells. Implantation sites in T-bet null mice, which have a defect in NK cell maturation, had uNK cells normal in morphology and number and normally modified spiral arteries. As Eomes null mice are not viable, real-time polymerase chain reaction comparisons between C57Bl/6J (B6) and alymphoid (Rag2(0/0)gammac0/0) mice were used to assess uNK cell expression of T-bet, Eomes, and the target genes IFN-gamma, granzyme A, and perforin. Gestation dated (gd) uterine tissues (mixed cell composition) and 200 morphologically homogeneous, laser-capture, microdissected uNK cells of different maturation stages were used. In uterus, Eomes transcripts greatly outnumbered those of T-bet, whether donors were nonpregnant or pregnant, and increased to gd10. In uNK cells, transcripts for T-bet, Eomes, and IFN-gamma were most abundant in mature stage cells, and transcripts for granzyme A and perforin were lower at this stage than in immature or senescent cells. Thus, Eomes dominance to T-bet discriminates regulation of the uNK cell subset from that observed for peripheral NK cells.
In zebrafish, endoderm induction occurs in marginal blastomeres and requires Casanova (Cas), the first endoderm-specific factor expressed in the embryo. Whereas the transcription factors Gata5 and Bon are necessary and sufficient for cas expression in marginal blastomeres, Bon and Gata5 are unable to induce cas in animal pole cells, suggesting that cas expression requires an additional, unidentified factor(s). Here, we show that cas expression depends upon the T box transcription factor Eomesodermin (Eomes), a maternal determinant that is localized to marginal blastomeres. Eomes synergizes potently with Bon and Gata5 to induce cas, even in animal pole blastomeres. We show that Eomes is required for endogenous endoderm induction, acting via an essential binding site in the cas promoter. Direct physical interactions between Eomes, Bon, and Gata5 suggest that Eomes promotes endoderm induction in marginal blastomeres by facilitating the assembly of a transcriptional activating complex on the cas promoter.
The murine trophoblast cell lineage represents an intriguing experimental cell model as it is composed of four trophoblast stem (TS)-derived cell types: trophoblast giant cells (TGCs), spongiotrophoblast, syncytotrophoblast, and glycogen trophoblast cells. To investigate the role of parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) in TGC differentiation, we analyzed the effect of exogenous PTHrP on secondary TGCs of day 8.5 p.c. ectoplacental cone explant culture. Secondary TGCs expressed PTHrP and PTHR1 receptor in vivo and in vitro. TGCs treated with PTHrP had reduced proliferation and decreased apoptosis starting from day 2 in culture, and enhanced properties of giant cell differentiation: increased DNA synthesis, number of cells with giant nuclei and expression of placental lactogen-II (PL-II). The induction of TGC formation by PTHrP correlated with downregulation of cyclin B1 and mSNA expression, but upregulation of cyclin D1, thus allowing mitotic-endocycle transition. Moreover, PTHrP treatment influenced TGC differentiation by inducing the expression of transcription factors known to stimulate giant cell formation: Stra13 and AP-2gamma, and inhibiting the formation of other trophoblast cell types by suppressing trophoblast progenitors and spongiotrophoblast-promoting factors, Eomes, Mash-2, and mSNA. Taken together with the spatial and temporal patterns of TGC formation and PTHrP synthesis in vivo, these findings indicate an important role for PTHrP in the differentiation of secondary TGCs during placentation.
Placental abnormalities and failed implantation are characterized phenotypes that occur in many species as a result of somatic cell cloning. This study examines a number of genes, critical for early placental development and reports aberrant expression patterns in a number of cloned bovine blastocysts, thus implicating a role of these genes in failed implantation. Messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of eight genes critical for early placental and preimplantation development including Acrogranin, Cdx2, Eomes, ErbB3, ERR2, Hand1, MRJ, and Rex1 were analyzed in single, in vivo, in vitro, and cloned bovine blastocysts (produced by hand-made cloning (HMC) and serial hand-made cloning (SHMC)) following complementary DNA (cDNA) amplification with a SMART cDNA synthesis kit. Aberrant expression of Acrogranin, Cdx2, and ERR2 was detected in a number of blastocysts produced by SHMC. Other genes, Eomes and Hand1, were not detectable in, in vivo bovine blastocysts, suggesting a differential expression pattern between bovine and murine embryos. A number of control marker genes including Oct4, IFN-tau, and PolyA were expressed in all single blastocysts analyzed. This is the first study to report that failure of implantation may be due to aberrant expression of genes in the preimplantation cloned embryo, which are crucial for the early regulation and differentiation of the placenta.
T-box genes are a highly conserved family of genes encoding transcription factors, which share a conserved DNA binding domain (the T-box). Appropriate temporal and spatial expression of this gene family is critical for gastrulation and organogenesis in a number of species. The T-box containing gene Eomesodermin was first identified in Xenopus, where it plays a critical role in mesoderm formation. In situ analyses in mice have described the expression patterns of the mouse ortholog of this gene mEomesodermin (mEomes) at the time of implantation and during fetal development. Additional studies involving the disruption of the mEomes gene, have demonstrated an additional role for mEomes in trophoblast formation. However, these analyses did not address the possibility that maternally encoded or pre-blastocyst zygotic transcription of mEomes may also contribute to embryonic development. We show here that mEomes mRNA is present prior to blastocyst formation, and that the protein product of mEomes is associated with nuclear DNA during oocyte development and persistently localizes within all nuclei of the preimplantation embryo until the early blastocyst stage. mEomes protein is associated with the meiotic spindle in the unfertilized egg and with the mitotic spindle at each cell division. Our results are consistent with mEomesodermin having a role in early preimplantation development and inner cell mass formation in addition to its function in the trophoblast lineage.
Blastocyst formation marks the segregation of the first two cell lineages in the mammalian preimplantation embryo: the inner cell mass (ICM) that will form the embryo proper and the trophectoderm (TE) that gives rise to the trophoblast lineage. Commitment to ICM lineage is attributed to the function of the two transcription factors, Oct4 (encoded by Pou5f1) and Nanog. However, a positive regulator of TE cell fate has not been described. The T-box protein eomesodermin (Eomes) and the caudal-type homeodomain protein Cdx2 are expressed in the TE, and both Eomes and Cdx2 homozygous mutant embryos die around the time of implantation. A block in early TE differentiation occurs in Eomes mutant blastocysts. However, Eomes mutant blastocysts implant, and Cdx2 and Oct4 expression are correctly restricted to the ICM TE. Blastocoel formation initiates in Cdx2 mutants but epithelial integrity is not maintained and embryos fail to implant. Loss of Cdx2 results in failure to downregulate Oct4 and Nanog in outer cells of the blastocyst and subsequent death of those cells. Thus, Cdx2 is essential for segregation of the ICM and TE lineages at the blastocyst stage by ensuring repression of Oct4 and Nanog in the TE.
The T-box gene eomesodermin (eomes) has been implicated in mesoderm specification and patterning in both zebrafish and frog. Here, we describe an additional function for eomes in the control of morphogenesis. Epiboly, the spreading and thinning of an epithelial cell sheet, is a central component of gastrulation in many species; however, despite its importance, little is known about its molecular control. Here, we show that repression of eomes function in the zebrafish embryo dramatically inhibits epiboly movements. We also show that eomes regulates the expression of a zygotic homeobox transcription factor mtx2. Gene knockdown of mtx2 using antisense morpholino oligonucleotides, likewise, leads to an inhibition of epiboly; moreover, we show that knockdown of mtx2 function in the extraembryonic yolk syncytial layer only is sufficient to cause epiboly defects. Thus, we have identified two components in a molecular pathway controlling epiboly and show that interactions between deep layer cells of the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues contribute in a coordinated manner to different aspects of epiboly movements.
The developing neocortex contains two types of progenitor cells for glutamatergic, pyramidal-projection neurons. The first type, radial glia, produce neurons and glia, divide at the ventricular surface, and express Pax6, a homeodomain transcription factor. The second type, intermediate progenitor cells, are derived from radial glia, produce only neurons, and divide away from the ventricular surface. Here we show that the transition from radial glia to intermediate progenitor cell is associated with upregulation of Tbr2, a T-domain transcription factor, and downregulation of Pax6. Accordingly, Tbr2 expression in progenitor compartments (the subventricular zone and ventricular zone) rises and falls with cortical plate neurogenesis. The subsequent transition from intermediate progenitor cell to postmitotic neuron is marked by downregulation of Tbr2 and upregulation of Tbr1, another T-domain transcription factor. These findings delineate the transcription factor sequence Pax6 --> Tbr2 --> Tbr1 in the differentiation of radial glia --> intermediate progenitor cell --> postmitotic projection neuron. This transcription factor sequence is modified in preplate neurons, in which Tbr2 is transiently coexpressed with Tbr1, and in the direct differentiation pathway from radial glia --> postmitotic projection neuron, in which Tbr2 is expressed briefly or not at all.
Congenital heart disease is the most prevalent cause of infant morbidity and mortality in developed countries. The mechanisms responsible for many specific types of congenital cardiac malformations are strongly associated with gene abnormalities. However, at this time no strategies for gene therapy of the various congenital heart malformations have been investigated. In the present studies we focus on Eomesodermin (Eomes), a T-box transcription factor expressed in developing vertebrate mesoderm. Although Eomes is required for early mesodermal patterning and differentiation, the role of Eomes in cardiac development is unknown. In the present studies we demonstrate that Eomes is expressed in the developing heart, with a pronounced myocardial distribution in the Xenopus ventricle during late cardiac development. Using either a conditional dominant-interfering approach (GR-Eomes--engrailed) or an Eomes-activating approach (GR-Eomes-VP16) we demonstrate that manipulating Eomes activity during late cardiac development can either suppress ventricular development (GR-Eomes-enR) or increase ventricular myocardial size (GR-Eomes-VP16). Thus, a potential gene therapy approach for treating both congenital ventricular hypoplasia (e.g., the hypoplastic left heart syndrome) and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is hypothetically implicit from the present results.
Members of the T-box family of transcription factors share an evolutionarily conserved DNA-binding domain and play significant roles in various processes of embryonic development. Vertebrate T-box genes are categorized into the following five major subfamilies (eight groups), depending on sequence similarities: Brachyury, Tbx1 (Tbx1/10, Tbx15/18/22, Tbx20), Tbx2/3/4/5 (Tbx2/3 and Tbx4/5), Tbx6, and Tbr/Eomes/TBX21. Ascidians are primitive chordates, and their tadpole larva are considered to represent the simplified and basic body plan of vertebrates. In addition, it has been revealed that the ascidian genome contains the basic ancestral complement of genes involved in development. The present characterization of cDNAs and survey of the Ciona intestinalis draft genome demonstrated that the Ciona genome contains a single copy gene for each of the Brachyury, Tbx1/10, Tbx15/18/22, Tbx20, Tbx2/3, and Tbr/Eomes/TBX21 groups, and at least three copies of the Tbx6 subfamily. Each of the Ciona T-box genes shows a characteristic expression pattern, although that of Tbx20 was not determined in the present study. These results provide basic information that will be useful for future studies of the function of each gene, genetic cascades of different T-box genes, and genome-wide surveys of evolutionary changes in the T-box gene structure and organization in this primitive chordate.
To investigate the pallial organization and the exact location and extension of the ventral pallium in amphibians, we cloned a fragment of the homeobox XenopusTbr1 (xTbr1) gene and analyzed its expression compared with that of the genes xEomes (Tbr2) and xEmx1 in the telencephalon of the frog Xenopus laevis during embryonic and larval development. The expression of xEmx1 was also analyzed in the adult frog. We compared the expression patterns of these pallial marker genes with that of the subpallial gene xDistal-less-4 (xDll4). Our results indicate that the whole pallium of Xenopus expresses the T-box genes xTbr1 and xEomes (in proliferating cells and/or mantle) during embryonic and larval development, and the expression of these genes is topographically complementary to that of xDll4 in the subpallium. In addition to their massive expression in the pallium, both xTbr1 and xEomes are expressed in a few dispersed cells in the subpallium, which may represent immigrant cells of pallial origin, because these genes are not found in the subpallial proliferating cells. On the other hand, during development xEmx1 is expressed in a large part of the pallium (proliferating and postmitotic cells) except for an area adjacent to the pallio-subpallial boundary, where xEmx1 is observed only in some mantle cells. This pallial area poor in xEmx1 expression and poor in expression of the subpallial gene xDll4, but expressing the pallial marker genes xTbr1 and xEomes, appears to represent the amphibian ventral pallium, comparable to that described in other vertebrates (Puelles et al. [2000] J. Comp. Neurol. 424:409-438). In the adult frog, the ventral pallium appears to include the rostral part of the lateral amygdalar nucleus as well as a large part of the medial amygdalar nucleus (as defined by Marín et al. [1998] J. Comp. Neurol. 392:285-312). In contrast, the caudal part of the previously termed lateral amygdalar nucleus shows strong xEmx1 expression and may be a lateral pallial derivative. The possible homology of these amphibian amygdalar nuclei is discussed. Finally, expression of xTbr1, xEomes, and xEmx1 is observed in the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb from early developmental stages, further supporting that this structure is a pallial derivative.
The T-box gene family, encoding related DNA-binding transcriptional regulators, plays an essential role in controlling many aspects of embryogenesis in a wide variety of organisms. The T-box genes exhibit diverse patterns of spatial and temporal expression in the developing embryo, and both genetic and molecular embryological studies have demonstrated their importance in regulating cell fate decisions that establish the early body plan, and in later processes underlying organogenesis. Despite these studies, little is known of either the regulation of the T-box genes or the identities of their transcriptional targets. The aim of this review is to examine the diverse yet conserved roles of several T-box genes in regulating early patterning in chordates and to discuss possible mechanisms through which this functional diversity might arise. Developmental Dynamics 229:201-218, 2004.
We used two developmental transcription factors, x-Eomes (T-box family) and x-Lhx5 (LIM-homeodomain family), to follow the origin and development of the olfactory bulbs in Xenopus. During embryonic and larval development, x-Eomes and x-Lhx5 were expressed in highly similar patterns, in the lateral and latero-ventral wall of the pallium. In adults, both markers were strongly and specifically expressed in mitral cells, i.e., in the projection neurons of the main and accessory olfactory bulbs. These results demonstrate the pallial origin of the olfactory projecting cells in Xenopus. Combined with previous results suggesting a subpallial origin for olfactory interneurons, these findings emphasize the dual origin of different neuronal populations in the bulbs of anamniotes, and suggest that this organization is a shared feature of tetrapods.
Comment in    Science. 2003 Nov 7;302(5647):993-4.
Comment on    Science. 2003 Nov 7;302(5647):1041-3.
Early embryonic development in many organisms relies upon maternal molecules deposited into the egg prior to fertilization. We have cloned and characterized a maternal T-box gene in the zebrafish, eomesodermin (eomes). During oogenesis, the eomes transcript becomes localized to the cortex of the oocyte. After fertilization during early cleavage stages, eomes is expressed in a vegetal to animal gradient in the embryo, whereas Eomesodermin protein (Eom) is distributed cytoplasmically throughout the blastoderm. Strikingly, following midblastula transition, nuclear-localized Eomesodermin is detected on the dorsal side of the embryo only. Overexpression of eomes results in Nodal-dependent and nieuwkoid/dharma (nwk/dhm) independent ectopic expression of the organizer markers goosecoid (gsc), chordin (chd) and floating head (flh) and in the formation of secondary axes. The same phenotypes are observed when a VP16-activator construct is injected into early embryos, indicating that eomes acts as a transcriptional activator. In addition, a dominant-negative construct and antisense morpholino oligonucleotides led to a reduction in gsc and flh expression. Together these data indicate that eomes plays a role in specifying the organizer.
Through studies of transgenic and mutant mice, it is possible to describe molecular pathways that control the development of all major trophoblast cell subtypes and structures of the placenta. For example, the proliferation of trophoblast stem cells is dependent on FGF signalling and downstream transcription factors Cdx2, Eomes and Err2. Several bHLH transcription factors regulate the progression from trophoblast stem cells to spongiotrophoblast and to trophoblast giant cells (Id1/2, Mash2, Hand1, Stra13). Intercellular actions critical for maintaining stable precursor cell populations are dependent on the gap junction protein Cx31 and the growth factor Nodal. Differentiation towards syncytiotrophoblast as well as the initiation of chorioallantoic (villous) morphogenesis is regulated by the Gcm1 transcription factor, and subsequent labyrinth development is dependent on Wnt, HGF and FGF signalling. These insights suggest that most of the genes that evolved to regulate placental development are either identical to ones used in other organ systems (e.g., FGF and epithelial branching morphogenesis), were co-opted to take on new functions (e.g., AP-2gamma, Dlx3, Hand1), or arose via gene duplication to take on a specialized placental function (e.g., Gcm1, Mash2). Many of the human orthologues of these critical genes show restricted expression patterns that are consistent with a conserved function. Such information is aiding the comparison of the human and mouse placenta. In addition, the prospect of a conserved function clearly suggests potential mechanisms for explaining complications of human placental development.
A cDNA for a novel T-box containing gene was isolated from the amphioxus Branchiostoma belcheri. A molecular phylogenetic tree constructed from the deduced amino acid sequence of the isolated cDNA indicates that this gene belongs to the T-Brain subfamily. In situ hybridization reveals that the expression is first detected in the invaginating archenteron at the early gastrula stage and this expression is down-regulated at the neurula stage. In early larvae, the expression appears again and transcripts are detected exclusively in the pre-oral pit (wheel organ-Hatschek's pit of the adult). In contrast to the vertebrate counterparts, no transcripts are detected in the brain vesicle or nerve cord throughout the development. These results are interpreted to mean that a role of T-Brain products in vertebrate forebrain development was acquired after the amphioxus was split from the lineage leading to the vertebrates. On the other hand, comparison of the tissue-specific expression domain of T-Brain genes and other genes between amphioxus and vertebrates revealed that the pre-oral pit of amphioxus has several molecular features which are comparable to those of the vertebrate olfactory and hypophyseal placode.
To shed light on the organisation of the Xenopus laevis telencephalon, we have used two sets of developmental regulators: genes acting in early regional specification (x-Dll3, x-Nkx2.1, x-Emx1, x-Pax6, x-Eomes) or in cell determination (x-Lhx5 and x-Lhx7). After expression patterns analysis, separately or combined, on whole-mount brains and serial sections, we identify the Xenopus pallium and subpallium, and the subdivisions herein. The data show a conservation of the same basic Bauplan for Xenopus forebrain patterning compared to other vertebrates, and suggest the possibility for LIM-homeodomain genes to be candidate downstream target of the regionalization genes. Comparing the relative sizes of the deduced subdivisions, Xenopus seems to have an intermediate phylogenetic position in terms of pallium contribution to the telencephalon, and ventral pallium contribution to the pallium.
Using the Hawaiian acorn worm, Ptychodera flava, we began molecular studies on the development of hemichordates, a phylum previously unstudied at this level. Here we review results garnered from the examination of a few specific genes selected to help understand the evolution of vertebrate structures. These studies suggest new ideas about the evolution of developmental mechanisms in the deuterostomes. In a seminal observation, we noted an unexpected zone of expression of the Brachyurygene in the early anterior embryonic ectoderm where the mouth will form. Typically, the Brachyury gene is closely linked to development of the notochord and is expressed around the blastopore and in the posterior mesoderm in most animals. This first expression of Brachyury at the blastopore may represent a regulatory program associated with organizing the original animal head and gut opening, as suggested by the expression of Brachyury during hypostome formation in hydra. We believe that the anterior expression of Brachyury in deuterostomes represents the cooption of the program for organizing the original animal gut opening to form the deuterostome mouth. Recent data from the trochophore larva of a polychaete show that an anterior zone of expression of Brachyury is produced in this protostome by splitting of the Brachyury field during the formation of a gut with a mouth and anus by the lateral fusion of the sides of the blastopore. The ability to initiate independently a secondary regulatory program to organize the new mouth leading to an anterior field of Brachyury expression may be a signal event in the evolution of the deuterostomes. We also noted that the P. flava homolog of T-brain/Eomes, a gene closely related by sequence and expression around the blastopore to Brachyury and associated with development of the vertebrate brain, also exhibits early posterior expression around the blastopore and a field of de novo anterior ectoderm expression during later embryogenesis. The tissue in the zone of de novo anterior ectoderm expression of Pf-Tbrain produces the apical organ, a larval neural structure that has been touted as an evolutionary precursor of the chordate dorsal brain. The gene regulatory mechanisms responsible for initiating the anterior zone of de novo expression of T-brain may represent a cooption to specify early neuroectoderm of the regulatory program evolved first to drive anterior Brachyury expression for deuterostome mouth formation. It will be interesting to examine the possibilities that an ability to initiate the de novo anterior expression of the program that includes T-brain may be a key event in the evolution of the developmental mechanisms leading to the chordate dorsal nervous system.
Members of the T box family of transcription factors play important roles in early development. Different members of the family exert different effects and here we show that much of the specificity of the Xenopus T box proteins Xbra, VegT and Eomesodermin resides in the DNA-binding domain, or T box. Binding site selection experiments show that the three proteins bind the same core sequence, but they select paired sites that differ in their orientation and spacing. Lysine 149 of Xbra is conserved in all Brachyury homologues, while the corresponding amino acid in VegT and Eomesodermin is asparagine. Mutation of this amino acid to lysine changes the inductive abilities of VegT and Eomesodermin to resemble that of Xbra.
Patterning of the Xenopus gastrula marginal zone in the axis running equatorially from the Spemann organizer-the so--called "dorsal/ventral axis"--has been extensively studied. It is now evident that patterning in the animal/vegetal axis also needs to be taken into consideration. We have shown that an animal/vegetal pattern is apparent in the marginal zone by midgastrulation in the polarized expression domains of Xenopus brachyury (Xbra) and Xenopus nodal-related factor 2 (Xnr2). In this report, we have followed cells expressing Xbra in the presumptive trunk and tail at the gastrula stage, and find that they fate to presumptive somite, but not to ventrolateral mesoderm of the tailbud embryo. From this, we speculate that the boundary between the Xbra- and Xnr2-expressing cells at gastrula corresponds to a future tissue boundary. In further experiments, we show that the level of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation is polarized along the animal/vegetal axis, with the Xnr2-expressing cells in the vegetal marginal zone having no detectable activated MAPK. We show that inhibition of MAPK activation in Xenopus animal caps results in the conversion of Xnr2 from a dorsal mesoderm inducer to a ventral mesoderm inducer, supporting a role for Xnr2 in induction of ventral mesoderm.
In early development much of the cellular diversity and pattern formation of the embryo is believed to be set up by morphogens. However, for many morphogens, including members of the TGF-beta superfamily, the mechanism(s) by which they reach distant cells is unknown. We have used immunofluorescence to detect, at single cell resolution, a morphogen gradient formed across vertebrate tissue. The TGF-beta ligand is distributed in a gradient visible up to 7 cell diameters (about 150-200 microm) from its source, and is detectable only in the extracellular space. This morphogen gradient is functional, since we demonstrate activation of a high response gene (Xeomes) and a low-response gene (Xbra) at different distances from the TGF-beta source. Expression of the high affinity type II TGF-beta receptor is necessary for detection of the gradient, but the shape of the gradient formed only depends in part on the spatial variation in the amount of receptor. Finally, we demonstrate that the molecular processes that participate in forming this functional morphogen gradient are temperature independent, since the gradient forms to a similar extent whether the cells are maintained at 4 degrees C or 23 degrees C. In contrast, TGF-beta1 internalisation by cells of the Xenopus embryo is a temperature-dependent process. Our results thus suggest that neither vesicular transcytosis nor other active processes contribute to a significant extent to the formation of the morphogen gradient we observe. We conclude that, in the model system used here, a functional morphogen gradient can be formed within a few hours by a mechanism of passive diffusion.
T-box transcription factors are important determinants of embryonic cell fate and behaviour. Two T-box genes are expressed in the developing telencephalon of several vertebrate species, including amphibia, birds and mammals. Here we report the cloning of zebrafish T-brain-1 (tbr1) and eomesodermin (eom). As a prelude to genetic studies of neuro-ectodermal fate determination we studied their expression pattern during embryogenesis and early larval development. Eom is expressed in the presumptive telencephalon from around the 4-5 somite stage in bilaterally symmetric groups of cells; the number of positive cells increases dramatically with time and encompasses the entire dorsal telencephalon by the 22 somite stage. Tbr1 is expressed from the 18 somite stage in a subset of eom-expressing cells. By 24 hpf eom and tbr1 are expressed in largely overlapping domains in the dorsal telencephalon, tbr1 is expressed in postmitotic cells whereas eomes is also expressed in proliferative ventricular zone cells. Both genes are also found in a small domain of the diencephalon bordering the telencephalon. A detailed analysis of the expression of tbr1 and eom in the brain of 4 day old larvae shows that the two T-box genes are differentially expressed in various cell populations of the developing brain.
Members of the T-box family are known to play critical roles in the embryonic development of most animal species. Recently, we have isolated its new mammalian member, Tbr2, from mouse embryonic brain. We have also shown that the expression patterns of Tbr2 and the closely related Tbr1 appear to be reciprocal in the developing brain; Tbr2 is expressed in mesencephalon and rhombencephalon, but expression of Tbr1 is restricted to telencephalon. To investigate possible structural and functional relationships of Tbr2 and other T-box containing genes, we analyzed genomic organization of the murine Tbr2 gene. The Tbr2 gene is composed of six exons (1353, 155, 122, 159, 62 and 1035bp), and five introns (920, 643, 602, 85 and 2036bp). This exon/intron organization is very similar to that of Tbr1. We also analyzed the 3.9kb sequence of the 5' promoter region flanking the Tbr2 gene and the corresponding region of the Tbr1 gene. The sites for Brn-2 and Tst-1 were found in the promoter of Tbr2 but not Tbr1. On the contrary, there were eight HNF-3beta binding sites in the Tbr1 gene promoter but only three in the Tbr2 promoter. The differential presence of putative binding sites for these brain-specific transcription factors may explain the reciprocal expression of Tbr1 and Tbr2. Furthermore, a single chromosomal locus for mouse Tbr2 was assigned to 9F3 by fluorescence in-situ hybridization 1.
Eomesodermin is an essential early gene in Xenopus mesoderm formation and shows a morphogen-like response to activin. Here we define the regions of the Eomesodermin promoter required for mesodermal expression and for concentration-dependent response to activin. We find an activin response element (ARE) located between -5.6 and -5.0 kb which contains two critical FAST2 binding sites. The ARE alone is necessary and sufficient for concentration-dependent response to activin. A 5.6 kb promoter recapitulates Eomes expression in normal mesoderm cells. A repressor element extinguishes Eomes expression in the endoderm. We relate our results to mesoderm patterning in early Xenopus development and to a mechanism of morphogen gradient response.
A recent study has shown that the T-box gene eomesodermin, which was first identified in Xenopus, not only plays a conserved role in vertebrates directing gastrulation, but interestingly in mammals has acquired a new function in the development of the trophoblast.
The earliest cell fate decision in the mammalian embryo separates the extra-embryonic trophoblast lineage, which forms the fetal portion of the placenta, from the embryonic cell lineages. The body plan of the embryo proper is established only later at gastrulation, when the pluripotent epiblast gives rise to the germ layers ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm. Here we show that the T-box gene Eomesodermin performs essential functions in both trophoblast development and gastrulation. Mouse embryos lacking Eomesodermin arrest at the blastocyst stage. Mutant trophoectoderm does not differentiate into trophoblast, indicating that Eomesodermin may be required for the development of trophoblast stem cells. In the embryo proper, Eomesodermin is essential for mesoderm formation. Although the specification of the anterior-posterior axis and the initial response to mesoderm-inducing signals is intact in mutant epiblasts, the prospective mesodermal cells are not recruited into the primitive streak. Our results indicate that Eomesodermin defines a conserved molecular pathway controlling the morphogenetic movements of germ layer formation and has acquired a new function in mammals in the differentiation of trophoblast.
Xenopus blastula cells show a morphogen-like response to activin by expressing different genes according to the concentration of activin to which they are exposed. To understand how cells recognize their position in a concentration gradient, it is essential to know whether each cell responds individually to activin concentration. An alternative idea, proposed by previous work, is that cells need to interact with their neighbours to generate a concentration-related response. To distinguish between these ideas, we have cultured blastula cells under conditions which provide different degrees of contact with other cells, allowing nil to maximum communication with their neighbours. The cultures include cells attached to fibronectin and cells resting unattached on an agarose base. The cultures also include cells that have no contact with any cell except their clonal progeny, cells that have lateral contact to neighbouring cells, and cells that are completely enveloped by other cells in a reaggregate. We have used RNase protection and in situ hybridization to assay the expression of the activin-responsive Xenopus genes Xbra, Xgsc, Xeomes, Xapod, Xchordin, Mix1, Xlim1 and Cerberus. We find no difference in gene expression between cells attached to fibronectin and those unattached on agarose. Most importantly, we find that cells respond to activin in a concentration-related way irrespective of their degree of contact with other cells. Therefore interaction among cells is not required for the interpretation of morphogen concentration, at least in the case of the early genes studied here. We conclude that isolated blastula cells can sense and respond individually to activin by expressing genes in a concentration-dependent way.
The members of the T-box gene family share a highly conserved DNA binding domain named the T-domain, and important developmental functions. Here we report the cloning of chicken Tbr1 and of murine and chicken Tbr2 (orthologs of the Xenopus eomesodermin gene), the mapping of the murine Tbr2 to chromosome 9, and their pattern of expression during mouse and chick embryogenesis. Both Tbr 1 and 2 have a restricted and conserved domain of expression in the telencephalic pallium of the two species. Chick Tbr2 has a specific and dynamic expression in the gastrulating embryo.
The VegT/Antipodean (Apod) gene is important for germ layer formation in Xenopus. To investigate the role of this gene at the protein level, as opposed to the RNA level, we have generated affinity purified polyclonal antibodies to Apod, and for comparison, to the other early T-box proteins Xbrachyury and Eomesodermin. An anti-VegT/Apod antibody reveals that there are two protein isoforms in Xenopus, one that we refer to as VegT and a smaller molecular weight isoform that we refer to as Apod. These isoforms have different N-terminal domains resulting from developmentally regulated alternative splicing of a primary transcript arising from a single VegT/Apod gene. VegT is maternally expressed. Its translation is blocked during oogenesis but the protein is present from the egg until gastrulation in the presumptive endoderm. There is no evidence for zygotic expression of this isoform. Conversely, the Apod protein isoform is expressed only after the onset of zygotic transcription in the presumptive mesoderm and is inducible by activin. We conclude that the developmental role of VegT/Apod is mediated by two different proteins, with entirely different patterns of expression and response to growth factors.
We have identified and characterized a new member of the mammalian brain-specific T-box gene family, Tbr2, which is closely related to mouse Tbr1, and to the Xenopus earliest mesodermal gene, Eomesodermin. As Tbr1, Tbr2 is predominantly expressed in some regions of the developing brain, but in a strikingly complementary manner. On embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5), Tbr2 mRNA expression was observed in the mesencephalon and rhombencephalon in contrast to Tbr1 which was expressed mostly in the telencephalon. At this stage, Tbr2 mRNA was readily detectable in the postmitotic and differentiating neurons located in various brain regions, i.e., oculomotor, red, trigeminal, vestibular, facial, and hypoglossal nuclei. However, expression of Tbr2 in these nuclei became undetectable on E18.5. In contrast, Tbr2 mRNA expression was detected in the hippocampus only from E18.5 onwards. Whereas Tbr2 expression disappeared in most parts of the mature adult brain, it remained detectable in the hippocampus and olfactory bulb, regions where some neuronal precursors retain their differentiation potential. These results suggest that Tbr2 may play a crucial role in differentiating neurons rather than in proliferating or already differentiated neurons. In addition, similarly to Xenopus Eomesodermin, mouse Tbr2 showed biphasic expression; a first peak around E6.5 and a second peak around E14.5, suggesting that Tbr2 may also be important at early stages of gastrulation.
The T-box gene family has been conserved throughout metazoan evolution. The genes code for putative transcription factors which share a uniquely defining DNA binding domain, known as the T-box ([Bollag et al., 1994]). They are implicated in the control of diverse developmental processes by their highly specific expression patterns throughout gastrulation and organogenesis in mouse and other species ([Chapman et al., 1996]) ([Gibson-Brown et al., 1998]), and by mutations in T-box genes that have profound developmental effects ([Papaioannou, 1997]; [Chapman and Papaioannou, 1998]; [Papaioannou and Silver, 1998]). In this report, we describe the mapping and expression pattern of the mouse ortholog of a gene, Eomesodermin, first identified in Xenopus ([Ryan et al., 1996]). The mouse gene was previously reported ([Wattler et al., 1998]) under the name MmEomes. The gene maps to mouse chromosome 9 in a region syntenic with human chromosome 3p. Mouse eomesodermin is expressed in the trophoblast of the blastocyst and in its derivative, the chorionic ectoderm. At gastrulation, eomesodermin is expressed in the primitive streak and embryonic mesoderm as well, but this expression disappears prior to the end of gastrulation. Later, eomesodermin is expressed in the developing forebrain, in a pattern largely overlapping a closely related T-box gene, Tbr1 ([Bulfone et al., 1995]), and is also seen in a localized area of each limb.
We report the expression pattern of a murine homolog of the Xenopus laevis T-box gene Eomesodermin. mEomes expression is first detected in the extra-embryonic ectoderm prior to gastrulation, and persists there until head-fold stages. In the embryo proper, mEomes is expressed throughout the early primitive streak, nascent mesoderm and in the anterior visceral endoderm. Although mEomes expression disappears from the embryo at late-streak stages, a second domain of mEomes expression is observed in the telencephalon beginning around E10.5.
Brachyury(T) is a mouse mutation, first described over 70 years ago, that causes defects in mesoderm formation. Recently several related genes, the T-box gene family, that encode a similar N-terminal DNA binding domain, the T-box, and that play critical roles in human embryonic development have been identified. It has been shown that human TBX5 and TBX3, if mutated, cause developmental disorders, Holt-Oram syndrome (OMIM 142900) and ulnar-mammary syndrome (OMIM 181450), respectively. We have identified four new human members of the T-box gene family, EOMES, TBX6, TBX18, and TBX19, and these genes have been mapped to different chromosomal regions by radiation hybrid mapping. The four T-box genes were classified into four different subfamilies and have also been subjected to phylogenomic analysis. Human EOMES maps at 3p21.3-p21.2. This Tbr1-subfamily gene is likely to play a significant role in early embryogenesis similar to that described for Xenopus eomesodermin. Human TBX6 maps at 16p12-q12. This Tbx6-subfamily gene is likely to participate in paraxial mesoderm formation and somitogenesis in human embryo. TBX18 is a novel member of the Tbx1 subfamily that maps at 6q14-q15. Two subgroups, TBX1/10 and TBX15/18 subgroups, could be distinguished within the Tbx1 subfamily. TBX19 is an orthologue of chick TbxT and maps at 1q23-q24. The genomic organization of TBX19 is highly similar to that of human T(Brachyury), another human member of the same subfamily.
Our initial description of the Xenopus gene Eomesodermin (Eomes) indicated that it is expressed largely if not entirely in mesodermal cells of gastrula stage embryos. A more detailed examination, described here, shows that it continues to be expressed in the most anterior (future head) mesoderm during gastrula and neurula stages. However, during tail-bud stages, Eomes expression is re-born in the most anterior part of the brain, becoming strongly transcribed in the olfactory region of the telencephalon. This later Eomes expression marks a very localized region of the forebrain distinct from that of Otx-2, anterior to that of En-1 and overlapping that of Sox-3.
The normal expression pattern of the Wnt responsive homeobox gene Siamois is restricted to the dorso-vegetal region of the Xenopus embryo. Because the Wnt signaling pathway (via beta-catenin) is active on the entire dorsal side of the early embryo, we have asked why Siamois expression is not seen in the dorsal ectoderm. Only Wnt signaling, via activation of beta-catenin, can induce directly Siamois, and signaling via the SMAD1 (BMP2/4) or SMAD2 (activin/Vg-1) pathways cannot. We now directly show that the SMAD2 pathway can cooperate with the Wnt pathway to induce expression of Siamois much more strongly than the Wnt pathway alone, in normal embryos. We demonstrate the significance of this cooperation in normal embryos by blocking the SMAD2 signaling pathway with a dominant negative activin receptor. The activin dominant negative receptor blocks this cooperative effect and reduces the expression of Siamois by threefold in early embryos. Furthermore, we find that this cooperative relationship between the SMAD2 and Wnt pathways is reciprocal. Thus, in normal embryos, the Wnt pathway can enhance induction, by the SMAD 2 pathway, of the organizer genes Gsc and Chd but not the pan-mesodermal marker genes Xbra and Eomes. We conclude that the Wnt and SMAD2 signaling pathways cooperate to induce the expression of Spemann-organizer specific genes and so help to localize their spatial expression.
Eomesodermin (Eomes) is a novel Xenopus T-domain gene. In normal development, it is expressed in mesodermal cells in a ventral-to-dorsal gradient of increasing concentration. It reaches its peak expression 1-2 hr before any other known panmesodermal gene. It is strongly inducible by normal vegetal cells and by mesoderm-inducing factors. Ectopic expression of Eomes in animal caps induces the transcription of nearly all mesodermal genes in a concentration-dependent way. Overexpression of Eomes dorsalizes ventral mesoderm, inducing gsc and changing cell fate to muscle and notochord. Blocking the function of Eomes causes gastrulation arrest and defective mesoderm-dependent gene activation. We propose that Eomes fulfills an essential function in initiating mesoderm differentiation and in determining mesodermal cell fate.
We have used differential display to identify genes inducible by activin and isolated a novel member of the T-box gene family that includes the Xenopus genes Xbrachyury and Eomesodermin. Here we show that this novel gene is unique within the T-box family because it is maternally expressed at a high level. Furthermore, it belongs to a rare class of maternal mRNAs in Xenopus that are localised to the vegetal hemisphere of the egg and we have therefore named it Antipodean. We show here that low amounts of Antipodean injected into ectoderm (animal cap cells) strongly induce pan mesodermal genes such as Xbrachyury and ventral mesodermal genes such as Xwnt-8. Overexpression of Antipodean generates mesoderm of ventral character, and induces muscle only weakly. This property is consistent with the observed late zygotic Antipodean mRNA expression in the posterior paraxial mesoderm and ventral blastopore, and its exclusion from the most dorsal mesodermal structure, the notochord. Antipodean is induced by several molecules of the TGF-beta class, but in contrast to Xbrachyury, not by bFGF. This result suggests that the expression of these T-box genes may be under the control of different regulatory pathways. Finally, we demonstrate that Antipodean and Eomesodermin induce each other and both are able to induce Xbrachyury. The early zygotic expression of Antipodean is not induced by Xbrachyury, though later it is to some extent. Considering its maternal content, Antipodean could initiate a cascade of T-box gene activations. The expression of these genes may, in turn, sustain each other's expression to define and maintain the mesoderm identity in Xenopus.
We describe the use of a DNA construct (named GFP.RN3) encoding green fluorescent protein as a lineage marker for Xenopus embryos. This offers the following advantages over other lineage markers so far used in Xenopus. When injected as synthetic mRNA, its protein emits intense fluorescence in living embryos. It is non-toxic, and the fluorescence does not bleach when viewed under 480 nm light. It is surprisingly stable, being strongly visible up to the feeding tadpole stage (5 days), and in some tissues for several weeks after mRNA injection. We also describe a construct that encodes a blue fluorescent protein. We exemplify the use of this GFP.RN3 construct for marking the lineage of individual blastomeres at the 32- to 64-cell stage, and as a marker for single transplanted blastula cells. Both procedures have revealed that the descendants of one embryonic cell can contribute single muscle cells to nearly all segmental myotomes rather than predominantly to any one myotome. An independent aim of our work has been to follow the fate of cells in which an early regulatory gene has been temporarily overexpressed. For this purpose, we co-injected GFP.RN3 mRNA and mRNA for the early Xenopus gene Eomes, and found that a high concentration of Eomes results in ectopic muscle gene activation in only the injected cells. This marker may therefore be of general value in providing long term identification of those cells in which an early gene with ephemeral expression has been overexpressed.
