Leishmania infantum causes visceral leishmaniosis, a neglected tropical disease that can modulate the host immune response by altering the expression of small non-coding RNAs called microRNAs (miRNAs). Some miRNAs are differentially expressed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of dogs with canine visceral leishmaniosis (CanL), like the down-regulated miR-150. Even though miR-150 is negatively correlated with L. infantum parasitic load, it is unclear if miR-150 directly affects L. infantum parasitic load and (if so) how this miRNA would contribute to infection. Here, we isolated PBMCs from 14 naturally infected dogs (CanL group) and six healthy dogs (Control group) and treated them in vitro with miR-150 mimic or inhibitor. We measured L. infantum parasitic load using qPCR and compared treatments. We also measured miR-150 in silico predicted target protein levels (STAT1, TNF-α, HDAC8, and GZMB) using flow cytometry or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Increasing miR-150 activity diminished L. infantum parasitic load in CanL PBMCs. We also found that inhibition of miR-150 reduced GZMB (granzyme B) levels. These findings demonstrate that miR-150 plays an important role in L. infantum infection in canine PBMCs, and they merit further studies aiming at drug development.
BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) leads to demyelination and neurodegeneration with autoimmune responses in central nervous system. Patients begin with a relapsing-remitting (RR) course, and more than 80% of them may advance to secondary progressive MS (SPMS), which is characteristic for the gradual decline of neurological functions without demonstrated treating method to prevent. This study aims to investigate the contribution of peripheral CD8 + T cells during the conversion from RRMS to SPMS, as well as reveal potential diagnostic signature in distinguishing SPMS.METHODS: Single-cell RNA sequencing was employed to reveal the heterogeneity of CD8 + T cells between SPMS and RRMS. In addition, flow cytometry was used to further characterized CD8 + T cell dynamic changes in patients. T cell receptor sequencing was performed to detect the clonal expansion of MS. Using Tbx21 siRNA, T-bet was confirmed to manipulate GzmB expression. The correlation between GzmB + CD8 + T cell subsets and clinical characteristics of MS and their potential diagnostic value for SPMS were evaluated by generalized linear regression models and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve respectively.RESULTS: Other than diminished naïve CD8 + T cell, elevating of activated CD8 + T cell subsets were observed in SPMS patients. Meanwhile, this aberrant amplified peripheral CD8 + T cells not only exhibited terminal differentiated effector (EMRA) phenotype with GzmB expression, but also possessed distinct trajectory from clonal expansion. In addition, T-bet acted as a key transcriptional factor that elicited GzmB expression in CD8 + TEMRA cells of patients with SPMS. Finally, the expression of GzmB in CD8 + T cells was positively correlated with disability and progression of MS, and could effectively distinguish SPMS from RRMS with a high accuracy.CONCLUSIONS: Our study mapped peripheral immune cells of RRMS and SPMS patients and provided an evidence for the involvement of GzmB + CD8 + TEMRA cells in the progression of MS, which could be used as a diagnostic biomarker for distinguishing SPMS from RRMS.
TAS-115 is an oral multi-receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that strongly inhibits kinases implicated in antitumor immunity, such as colony stimulating factor 1 receptor and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor. Because these kinases are associated with the modulation of immune pathways, we investigated the immunomodulatory activity of TAS-115. An in vitro cytokine assay revealed that TAS-115 upregulated interferon γ (IFNγ) and interleukin-2 secretion by T cells, suggesting that TAS-115 activated T cells. Gene expression analysis suggested that TAS-115 promoted M1 macrophage differentiation. In in vivo experiments, although TAS-115 exerted a moderate antitumor effect in the MC38 mouse colorectal cancer model under immunodeficient conditions, this effect was enhanced under immunocompetent conditions. Furthermore, combination of TAS-115 and anti-PD-1 antibody exhibited greater antitumor activity than either treatment alone. Flow cytometry analysis showed the increase in IFNγ- and granzyme B (Gzmb)-secreting tumor-infiltrating T cells by TAS-115 treatment. The combination treatment further increased the percentage of Gzmb+CD8+ T cells and decreased the percentage of macrophages compared with either treatment alone. These results highlight the potential therapeutic effect of TAS-115 in combination with PD-1 blockade, mediated via activation of antitumor immunity by TAS-115.
BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has become a first-line treatment option for metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) patients who do not meet the criteria of cisplatin. Still, only a few people can benefit from it, so useful predictive markers are needed.METHODS: Download the ICB-based mUC and chemotherapy-based bladder cancer cohorts, and extract the expression data of pyroptosis-related genes (PRG). The LASSO algorithm was used to construct the PRG prognostic index (PRGPI) in the mUC cohort, and we verified the prognostic ability of PRGPI in two mUC and two bladder cancer cohorts.RESULTS: Most of the PRG in the mUC cohort were immune-activated genes, and a few were immunosuppressive genes. The PRGPI composed of GZMB, IRF1, and TP63 can stratify the risk of mUC. In IMvigor210 and GSE176307 cohorts, the P-values of Kaplan Meier analysis was < 0.01 and 0.002, respectively. PRGPI could also predict ICB response, and the chi-square test of the two cohorts had P-values of 0.002 and 0.046, respectively. In addition, PRGPI can also predict the prognosis of two bladder cancer cohorts without ICB therapy. The PRGPI and the expression of PDCD1/CD274 had a high degree of synergistic correlation. The Low PRGPI group showed prominent characteristics of immune infiltration and was enriched in the immune signal activation pathway.CONCLUSION: The PRGPI we constructed can effectively predict the treatment response and overall survival rate of mUC patients treated with ICB. The PRGPI can help mUC patients achieve individualized and accurate treatment in the future.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to analyze the heterogeneity among different cell types in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and to analyze T cell subsets to obtain key genes that may lead to RA.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The sequencing data of 10,483 cells were obtained from the GEO data platform. The data were filtered and normalized initially and, then, principal component analysis (PCA) and t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (TSNE) cluster analysis were performed using the Seurat package in R language to group the cells, thereby obtaining the T cells. The T cells were subjected to subcluster analysis. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in T cell subclusters were obtained, and the hub genes were determined by Gene Ontology (GO) functional enrichment analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction. Finally, the hub genes were validated using other datasets in the GEO data platform.RESULTS: The PBMC of RA patients were mainly divided into T cells, natural killer (NK) cells, B cells, and monocyte cells. The number of T cells was 4,483, which were further divided into seven clusters. The pseudotime trajectory analysis showed that the differentiation of T cells developed from cluster 0 and cluster 1 to cluster 5 and cluster 6. Through GO, KEGG and PPI analysis, the hub genes were identified. After validation by external data sets, nine genes were identified as candidate genes highly associated with the occurrence of RA, including CD8A, CCL5, GZMB, NKG7, PRF1, GZMH, CCR7, GZMK, and GZMA.CONCLUSION: Based on single-cell sequencing analysis, we identified nine candidate genes for diagnosing RA, and validated their diagnostic value for RA patients. Our findings may provide new sights for the diagnosis and treatment of RA.
Lung transplantation is the last effective treatment for end-stage respiratory failure, however, with ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) inevitably occurring in postoperative period. IRI is the major pathophysiologic mechanism of primary graft dysfunction, a severe complication that contributes to prolonged length of stay and overall mortality. The understanding of pathophysiology and etiology remain limited and the underlying molecular mechanism, as well as novel diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, urgently require exploration. Excessive uncontrolled inflammatory response is the core mechanism of IRI. In this research, a weighted gene co-expression network was established using the CIBERSORT and WGCNA algorithms in order to identify macrophage-related hub genes based on the data downloaded from the GEO database (GSE127003, GSE18995). 692 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in reperfused lung allografts were identified, with three genes recognized as being related to M1 macrophages and validated as differentially expressed using GSE18995 dataset. Of these putative novel biomarker genes, TCRα subunit constant gene (TRAC) were downregulated, while Perforin-1 (PRF1) and Granzyme B (GZMB) were upregulated in reperfused vs. ischemic lung allografts. Furthermore, we obtained 189 potentially therapeutic small molecules for IRI after lung transplantation from the CMap database among which PD-98059 was the top molecule with the highest absolute correlated connectivity score (CS). Our study provides the novel insights into the impact of immune cells on the etiology of IRI and potential targets for therapeutic intervention. Nevertheless, further investigation of these key genes and therapeutic drugs is needed to validate their effects.
Cyclic di-AMP (c-di-AMP) is an essential secondary messenger regulating cell wall homeostasis and myriads of physiological processes in several Gram-positive and mycobacteria, including human pathogens. Hence, c-di-AMP synthesizing enzymes (DACs) have become a promising antibacterial drug target. To overcome a scarcity of small molecule inhibitors of c-di-AMP synthesizing enzyme CdaA, a computer-aided design of a new compound that should block the enzyme has been performed. This has led to the identification of a molecule comprising two thiazole rings and showing inhibitory potential based on ITC measurements. Thiazole scaffold is a good pharmacophore nucleus known due to its various pharmaceutical applications. It is contained in more than 18 FDA-approved drugs as well as in dozens of experimental drugs. Hence, the designed inhibitor can serve as a potent lead compound for further development of inhibitor against CdaA.
BACKGROUND: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a heterogeneous tumor with diverse molecular pathological profiles. Recent studies have suggested the vital role of pyroptosis in tumor microenvironment. However, the expression patterns of pyroptosis in HPV-positive HNSCC are still unclear.METHODS: Unsupervised clustering analysis was used to identify the pyroptosis patterns based on the RNA-sequencing data of 27 pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) in HPV-positive HNSCC samples. Random forest classifier and artificial neural network were performed to screen the signature genes associated with pyroptosis, which were verified in two independent external cohorts and qRT-PCR experiment. Principal component analysis was used to develop a scoring system, namely Pyroscore.RESULTS: The expression variations of 27 PRGs in HPV-positive HNSCC patients were analyzed from genomic and transcriptional domains. Two pyroptosis-related subtypes with distinct clinical outcomes, enrichment pathways and immune characteristics were identified. Next, six signature genes (GZMB, LAG3, NKG7, PRF1, GZMA and GZMH) associated with pyroptosis were selected for prognostic prediction. Further, a Pyroscore system was constructed to determine the level of pyroptosis in each patient. A low Pyroscore was featured by better survival time, increased immune cell infiltration, higher expression of immune checkpoint molecules and T cell-inflamed genes, as well as elevated mutational burden. The Pyroscore was also related to the sensitivity of chemotherapeutic agents.CONCLUSIONS: The pyroptosis-related signature genes and Pyroscore system may be reliable predictors of prognosis and serve as mediators of immune microenvironment in patients with HPV-positive HNSCC.
Soluble nuclear transport receptors and stationary nucleoporins are at the heart of the nucleocytoplasmic transport machinery. A subset of nucleoporins contains characteristic and repetitive FG (phenylalanine-glycine) motifs, which are the basis for the permeability barrier of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) that controls transport of macromolecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. FG-motifs can interact with each other and/or with transport receptors, mediating their translocation across the NPC. The molecular details of homotypic and heterotypic FG-interactions have been analyzed at the structural level. In this review, we focus on the interactions of nucleoporins with nuclear transport receptors. Besides the conventional FG-motifs as interaction spots, a thorough structural analysis led us to identify additional similar motifs at the binding interface between nucleoporins and transport receptors. A detailed analysis of all known human nucleoporins revealed a large number of such phenylalanine-containing motifs that are not buried in the predicted 3D-structure of the respective protein but constitute part of the solvent-accessible surface area. Only nucleoporins that are rich in conventional FG-repeats are also enriched for these motifs. This additional layer of potential low-affinity binding sites on nucleoporins for transport receptors may have a strong impact on the interaction of transport complexes with the nuclear pore and, thus, the efficiency of nucleocytoplasmic transport.
BACKGROUND: Vitiligo is an autoimmune skin disease mainly mediated by CD8+ T cells, which affects about 0.1%-2% population of the world. Leptin plays a critical role in regulating the activation of CD8+ T cells. However, the effect of Leptin on vitiligo remains unclear.OBJECTIVES: To explore the effect of leptin on CD8+ T cells and its influence on vitiligo.METHODS: RNA sequencing and Quantitative Real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) were used to explore the differentially expressed genes. Immunofluorescence staining was performed on skin lesions. Leptin in serum was detected by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The peripheral blood mononuclear cells were detected by flow cytometry after leptin stimulation for 72 hours. A vitiligo model was established by monobenzone on Leptin KO mice.RESULTS: 557 differentially expressed genes were found, including 154 up-regulated and 403 down-regulated genes. Lipid metabolism pathways showed a close relationship to the pathogenesis of vitiligo, especially the PPAR signaling pathway. RT-qPCR (p = 0.013) and immunofluorescence staining (p = 0.0053) verified that LEPR expressed significantly higher in vitiligo. The serum leptin level of vitiligo patients was significantly lower than that of healthy controls (p = 0.0245). The interferon-γ subset of CD8+LEPR+ T cells from vitiligo patients was significantly higher (p = 0.0189). The protein level of interferon-γ was significantly increased after leptin stimulation in vitro (p = 0.0217). In mice, Leptin deficiency resulted in less severe hair depigmentation. Leptin deficiency also resulted in significantly lower expressed vitiligo-related genes, such as Cxcl9 (p = 0.0497), Gzmb (p < 0.001), Ifng (p = 0.0159), and Mx1 (p < 0.001) after modeling.CONCLUSION: Leptin could promote the progression of vitiligo by enhancing the cytotoxic function of CD8+ T cells. Leptin may become a new target for vitiligo treatment.
The roles of tumor-infiltrating Foxp3-CD4+ T cells are not well characterized due to their plasticity of differentiation, and varying levels of activation or exhaustion. To further clarify this issue, we used a model featuring subcutaneous murine colon cancer and analyzed the dynamic changes of phenotype and function of the tumor-associated CD4+ T cell response. We found that, even at a late stage of tumor growth, the tumor-infiltrating CD4+Foxp3- T cells still expressed effector molecules, inflammatory cytokines and molecules that are expressed at reduced levels in exhausted cells. We used microarrays to examine the gene-expression profiles of different subsets of CD4+ T cells and revealed that the tumor-infiltrating CD4+Foxp3- T cells expressed not only type 1 helper (Th1) cytokines, but also cytolytic granules such as those encoded by Gzmb and prf1. In contrast to CD4+ regulatory T cells, these cells exclusively co-expressed natural killer receptor markers, and cytolytic molecules as shown by flow-cytometry studies. We used an ex vivo killing assay and proved that they could directly suppress CT26 tumor cells through granzyme B and perforin. Finally, we used pathway analysis and ex vivo stimulation to confirm that the Foxp3-CD4+ T cells expressed higher levels of IL12rb1 genes and were activated by the IL-12/IL-27 pathway. In conclusion, this work finds that, in late-stage tumors, the tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte population of CD4+ cells harbored a sustained, hyper-maturated Th1 status with cytotoxic function supported by IL-12.
PURPOSE: Dendritic cells (DC) are specialized antigen-presenting cells, and cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells have a specific killing activity to a variety of tumors. However, the underlining mechanism and function of DC-CIK cells in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remain largely elusive.METHODS: Gene expression profiles of leukemia patients were obtained from TCGA, DC cell components were evaluated using the quanTIseq method, and cancer stem cell scores were estimated using machine learning methods. The transcriptomes were obtained in DC-CIK cells from normal and AML patients by high-throughput sequencing. Large differentially expressed mRNAs were verified by RT-qPCR assay, and MMP9 and CCL1 were selected for subsequent studies in vivo and in vitro experiments.RESULTS: Significant positive correlations were found with DC versus cancer stem cells (p = 0.008) and the expression of MMP9 versus cancer stem cells (p = 0.018). MMP9 and CCL1 were found to be highly expressed in DC-CIK cells from AML patients. DC-CIK cells with MMP9 and CCL1 knockout alone had little effect on leukemia cells, while knockdown of MMP9 and CCL1 in DC-CIK cells increased cytotoxicity, suppressed proliferation, and induced apoptosis of leukemia cells. In addition, we proved that MMP9- and CCL1-silenced DC-CIK cells significantly elevated the CD3+CD4+ and CD3+CD8+ cells and lowered the CD4+PD-1+ and CD8+PD-1+ T cells. Meanwhile, blockage of MMP9 and CCL1 in DC-CIK cells dramatically increased IL-2 and IFN-γ, increased CD107aþ (LAMP-1) and granzyme B (GZMB), and downregulated PD-1, CTLA4, TIM3, and LAG3 T cells from AML patients and AML model mice. Furthermore, activated T cells in DC-CIK cells knocking down MMP9 and CCL1 also prevented proliferation and accelerated apoptosis of AML cells.CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrated that blockage of MMP9 and CCL1 in DC-CIK cells could markedly enhance the therapeutic efficiency in AML via activating T cells.
Increasing evidences have demonstrated that pyroptosis exerts key roles in the occurrence, development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. However, the mechanisms of pyroptosis in COPD remain largely unknown. In our research, Statistics were performed using R software and related packages in this study. Series matrix files of small airway epithelium samples were downloaded from the GEO database. Differential expression analysis with FDR < 0.05 was performed to identify COPD-associated pyroptosis-related genes. 8 up-regulated genes (CASP4, CASP5, CHMP7, GZMB, IL1B, AIM2, CASP6, GSDMC) and 1 down-regulated genes (PLCG1) was identified as COPD-associated pyroptosis-related genes. Twenty-six COPD key genes was identified by WGCNA analysis. PPI analysis and gene correlation analysis showed their relationship clearly. KEGG and GO analysis have revealed the main pyroptosis-related mechanism of COPD. The expression of 9 COPD-associated pyroptosis-related genes in different grades was also depicted. The immune environment of COPD was also explored. Furthermore, the relationship of pyroptosis-related genes and the expression of immune cells was also be shown in the end. In the end, we concluded that pyroptosis influences the development of COPD. This study may provide new insight into the novel therapeutic targets for COPD clinical treatment.
Antibiotics are double-edged swords. Although antibiotics are used to inhibit pathogenic bacteria, they also run the risk of destroying some of the healthy bacteria in our bodies. We examined the effect of penicillin on the organism through a microarray dataset, after which 12 genes related to immuno-inflammatory pathways were selected by reading the literature and validated using neomycin and ampicillin. The expression of genes was measured using qRT-PCR. Several genes were significantly overexpressed in antibiotic-treated mice, including CD74 and SAA2 in intestinal tissues that remained extremely expressed after natural recovery. Moreover, transplantation of fecal microbiota from healthy mice to antibiotic-treated mice was made, where GZMB, CD3G, H2-AA, PSMB9, CD74, and SAA1 were greatly expressed; however, SAA2 was downregulated and normal expression was restored, and in liver tissue, SAA1, SAA2, SAA3 were extremely expressed. After the addition of vitamin C, which has positive effects in several aspects, to the fecal microbiota transplantation, in the intestinal tissues, the genes that were highly expressed after the fecal microbiota transplantation effectively reduced their expression, and the unaffected genes remained normally expressed, but the CD74 gene remained highly expressed. In liver tissues, normally expressed genes were not affected, but the expression of SAA1 was reduced and the expression of SAA3 was increased. In other words, fecal microbiota transplantation did not necessarily bring about a positive effect of gene expression restoration, but the addition of vitamin C effectively reduced the effects of fecal microbiota transplantation and regulated the balance of the immune system.
Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy is highly effective in inducing complete remission in haematological malignancies. Severe cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is the most significant and life-threatening adverse effect of this therapy. This multi-centre study was conducted at six hospitals in China. The training cohort included 87 patients with multiple myeloma (MM), an external validation cohort of 59 patients with MM and another external validation cohort of 68 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) or non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The levels of 45 cytokines on days 1-2 after CAR-T cell infusion and clinical characteristics of patients were used to develop the nomogram. A nomogram was developed, including CX3CL1, GZMB, IL4, IL6 and PDGFAA. Based on the training cohort, the nomogram had a bias-corrected AUC of 0.876 (95% CI = 0.871-0.882) for predicting severe CRS. The AUC was stable in both external validation cohorts (MM, AUC = 0.907, 95% CI = 0.899-0.916; ALL/NHL, AUC = 0.908, 95% CI = 0.903-0.913). The calibration plots (apparent and bias-corrected) overlapped with the ideal line in all cohorts. We developed a nomogram that can predict which patients are likely to develop severe CRS before they become critically ill, improving our understanding of CRS biology, and may guide future cytokine-directed therapies.
Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is a leading cause of calf morbidity and mortality, and prevalence remains high despite current management practices. Differential gene expression (DGE) provides detailed insight into individual immune responses and can illuminate enriched pathways and biomarkers that contribute to disease susceptibility and outcomes. The aims of this study were to investigate differences in peripheral leukocyte gene expression in Holstein preweaned heifer calves 1) with and without BRD, and 2) across weeks of age. Calves were enrolled for this short-term longitudinal study on two commercial dairies in Washington State. Calves were assessed every two weeks throughout the pre-weaning period using clinical respiratory scoring (CRS) and thoracic ultrasonography (TUS), and blood samples were collected. Calves were selected that were either healthy (n = 10) or had BRD diagnosed by CRS (n = 7), TUS (n = 6), or both (n = 6) in weeks 5 or 7 of life). Three consecutive time point samples were analyzed for each BRD calf consisting of PRE, ONSET, and POST samples. Nineteen genes of interest were selected based on previous gene expression studies in cattle: ALOX15, BPI, CATHL6, CXCL8, DHX58, GZMB, HPGD, IFNG, IL17D, IL1R2, ISG15, LCN2, LIF, MX1, OAS2, PGLYRP1, S100A8, SELP, and TNF. Comparisons were made between age and disease time point matched BRD and healthy calves as well as between calf weeks of age. No DGE was observed between diseased and healthy calves; however, DGE was observed between calf weeks of age regardless of disease state. Developmental differences in leukocyte gene expression, phenotype, and functionality make pre-weaned calves immunologically distinct from mature cattle, and early life shifts in calf leukocyte populations likely contribute to the age-related gene expression differences we observed. Age overshadows disease impacts to influence gene expression in young calves, and immune development progresses upon a common trajectory regardless of disease during the preweaning period.
BACKGROUND: Anti-PD-(L)1 immunotherapy has been recommended for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with lymph node metastases (LNM). However, the exact functional feature and spatial architecture of tumor-infiltrating CD8 + T cells remain unclear in these patients.METHODS: Tissue microarrays (TMAs) from 279 IA-IIIB NSCLC samples were stained by multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) for 11 markers (CD8, CD103, PD-1, Tim3, GZMB, CD4, Foxp3, CD31, αSMA, Hif-1α, pan-CK). We evaluated the density of CD8 + T-cell functional subsets, the mean nearest neighbor distance (mNND) between CD8 + T cells and neighboring cells, and the cancer-cell proximity score (CCPS) in invasive margin (IM) as well as tumor center (TC) to investigate their relationships with LNM and prognosis.RESULTS: The densities of CD8 + T-cell functional subsets, including predysfunctional CD8 + T cells (Tpredys) and dysfunctional CD8 + T cells (Tdys), in IM predominated over those in TC (P < 0.001). Multivariate analysis identified that the densities of CD8 + Tpredys cells in TC and CD8 + Tdys cells in IM were significantly associated with LNM [OR = 0.51, 95%CI (0.29-0.88), P = 0.015; OR = 5.80, 95%CI (3.19-10.54), P < 0.001; respectively] and recurrence-free survival (RFS) [HR = 0.55, 95%CI (0.34-0.89), P = 0.014; HR = 2.49, 95%CI (1.60-4.13), P = 0.012; respectively], independent of clinicopathological factors. Additionally, shorter mNND between CD8 + T cells and their neighboring immunoregulatory cells indicated a stronger interplay network in the microenvironment of NSCLC patients with LNM and was associated with worse prognosis. Furthermore, analysis of CCPS suggested that cancer microvessels (CMVs) and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) selectively hindered CD8 + T cells from contacting with cancer cells, and were associated with the dysfunction of CD8 + T cells.CONCLUSION: Tumor-infiltrating CD8 + T cells were in a more dysfunctional status and in a more immunosuppressive microenvironment in patients with LNM compared with those without LNM.
The intrinsic and acquired resistance to PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint blockade is an important challenge for patients and clinicians because no reliable tool has been developed to predict individualized response to immunotherapy. In this study, we demonstrate the translational relevance of an ex vivo functional assay that measures the tumor cell killing ability of patient-derived CD8 T and NK cells (referred to as "cytotoxic lymphocytes," or CLs) isolated from the peripheral blood of patients with renal cell carcinoma. Patient-derived PBMCs were isolated before and after nephrectomy from patients with renal cell carcinoma. We compared the efficacy of U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors (pembrolizumab, nivolumab, atezolizumab) and a newly developed PD-L1 inhibitor (H1A Ab) in eliciting cytotoxic function. CL activity was improved at 3 mo after radical nephrectomy compared with baseline, and it was associated with higher circulating levels of tumor-reactive effector CD8 T cells (CD11ahighCX3CR1+GZMB+). Treatment of PBMCs with FDA-approved PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors enhanced tumor cell killing activity of CLs, but a differential response was observed at the individual-patient level. H1A demonstrated superior efficacy in promoting CL activity compared with FDA-approved PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. PBMC immunophenotyping by mass cytometry revealed enrichment of effector CD8 T and NK cells in H1A-treated PBMCs and immunosuppressive regulatory T cells in atezolizumab-treated samples. Our study lays the ground for future investigation of the therapeutic value of H1A as a next-generation immune checkpoint inhibitor and the potential of measuring CTL activity in PBMCs as a tool to predict individual response to immune checkpoint inhibitors in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma.
Complete spontaneous tumor regression (without treatment) is well documented to occur in animals and humans as epidemiological analysis show, whereby the malignancy is permanently eliminated. We have developed a novel computational systems biology model for this unique phenomenon to furnish insight into the possibility of therapeutically replicating such regression processes on tumors clinically, without toxic side effects. We have formulated oncological informatics approach using cell-kinetics coupled differential equations while protecting normal tissue. We investigated three main tumor-lysis components: (ⅰ) DNA blockade factors, (ⅱ) Interleukin-2 (IL-2), and (ⅲ) Cytotoxic T-cells (CD8+ T). We studied the temporal variations of these factors, utilizing preclinical experimental investigations on malignant tumors, using mammalian melanoma microarray and histiocytoma immunochemical assessment. We found that permanent tumor regression can occur by: 1) Negative-Bias shift in population trajectory of tumor cells, eradicating them under first-order asymptotic kinetics, and 2) Temporal alteration in the three antitumor components (DNA replication-blockade, Antitumor T-lymphocyte, IL-2), which are respectively characterized by the following patterns: (a) Unimodal Inverted-U function, (b) Bimodal M-function, (c) Stationary-step function. These provide a time-wise orchestrated tri-phasic cytotoxic profile. We have also elucidated gene-expression levels corresponding to the above three components: (ⅰ) DNA-damage G2/M checkpoint regulation [genes: CDC2-CHEK], (ⅱ) Chemokine signaling: IL-2/15 [genes: IL2RG-IKT3], (ⅲ) T-lymphocyte signaling (genes: TRGV5-CD28). All three components quantitatively followed the same activation profiles predicted by our computational model (Smirnov-Kolmogorov statistical test satisfied, α = 5%). We have shown that the genes CASP7-GZMB are signatures of Negative-bias dynamics, enabling eradication of the residual tumor. Using the negative-biasing principle, we have furnished the dose-time profile of equivalent therapeutic agents (DNA-alkylator, IL-2, T-cell input) so that melanoma tumor may therapeutically undergo permanent extinction by replicating the spontaneous tumor regression dynamics.
Aim: To identify DNA methylation and transcription biomarkers in the psoriatic epidermis. Materials & methods: Gene transcription and DNA methylation datasets of psoriatic epidermal tissue were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus. Machine learning algorithm analysis and weighted gene coexpression network analysis were carried out to screen hub genes. Results: Differentially methylated and expressed genes were identified in the psoriatic epidermis. Six hub genes were selected - GZMB, CRIP1, S100A12, ISG15, CRABP2 and VNN1 - whose transcript levels showed a significant correlation with Psoriasis Area and Severity Index scores and immune infiltration. Conclusion: Psoriatic epidermis is primarily in a hypermethylated status. Epidermis-specific hub differentially methylated and expressed genes are potential biomarkers to help judge the condition of psoriasis.
The ability of colorectal cancer (CRC) cells to escape from natural killer (NK) cell immune surveillance leads to anti-tumor treatment failure. The long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) ELFN1-AS1 is aberrantly expressed in multiple tumors suggesting a role as an oncogene in cancer development. However, whether ELFN1-AS1 regulates immune surveillance in CRC is unclear. Here, we determined that ELFN1-AS1 enhanced the ability of CRC cells to escape from NK cell surveillance in vitro and in vivo. In addition, we confirmed that ELFN1-AS1 in CRC cells attenuated the activity of NK cell by down-regulating NKG2D and GZMB via the GDF15/JNK pathway. Furthermore, mechanistic investigations demonstrated that ELFN1-AS1 enhanced the interaction between the GCN5 and SND1 protein and this influenced H3k9ac enrichment at the GDF15 promotor to stimulate GDF15 production in CRC cells. Taken together, our findings indicate that ELFN1-AS1 in CRC cells suppresses NK cell cytotoxicity and ELFN1-AS1 is a potential therapeutic target for CRC.
Next to Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis is the most studied and best understood organism that also serves as a model for many important pathogens. Due to its ability to form heat-resistant spores that can germinate even after very long periods of time, B. subtilis has attracted much scientific interest. Another feature of B. subtilis is its genetic competence, a developmental state in which B. subtilis actively takes up exogenous DNA. This makes B. subtilis amenable to genetic manipulation and investigation. The bacterium was one of the first with a fully sequenced genome, and it has been subject to a wide variety of genome- and proteome-wide studies that give important insights into many aspects of the biology of B. subtilis. Due to its ability to secrete large amounts of proteins and to produce a wide range of commercially interesting compounds, B. subtilis has become a major workhorse in biotechnology. Here, we review the development of important aspects of the research on B. subtilis with a specific focus on its cell biology and biotechnological and practical applications from vitamin production to concrete healing. The intriguing complexity of the developmental programs of B. subtilis, paired with the availability of sophisticated tools for genetic manipulation, positions it at the leading edge for discovering new biological concepts and deepening our understanding of the organization of bacterial cells.
The development of AlphaFold for protein structure prediction has opened a new era in structural biology. This is even more the case for AlphaFold-Multimer for the prediction of protein complexes. The interpretation of these predictions has become more important than ever, but it is difficult for the non-specialist. While an evaluation of the prediction quality is provided for monomeric protein predictions by the AlphaFold Protein Structure Database, such a tool is missing for predicted complex structures. Here, we present the PAE Viewer webserver (http://www.subtiwiki.uni-goettingen.de/v4/paeViewerDemo), an online tool for the integrated visualization of predicted protein complexes using a 3D structure display combined with an interactive representation of the Predicted Aligned Error (PAE). This metric allows an estimation of the quality of the prediction. Importantly, our webserver also allows the integration of experimental cross-linking data which helps to interpret the reliability of the structure predictions. With the PAE Viewer, the user obtains a unique online tool which for the first time allows the intuitive evaluation of the PAE for protein complex structure predictions with integrated crosslinks.
For advanced, refractory endometrial cancer (EC), it is advisable to find effective immunotherapeutic targets. In the present study, genes affecting the immune status of uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) samples within The Cancer Genome Atlas were explored by weighted correlation network analysis and differential gene expression analysis. The protein function and immune correlation of 14 key genes, including ζ-chain-associated protein kinase 70 (ZAP70), were analyzed. Based on the expression levels of key genes, the patients with UCEC were divided into two groups using consensus clustering, low expression (group 1) and high expression (group 2). Next, the functions of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the two groups were identified using Gene Ontology enrichment analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis. The immune status of the patients in the two groups was evaluated using immune infiltration score and the expression levels of targets of immune checkpoint inhibitors. The role of ZAP70 in the prognosis of patients with UCEC and the differences in ZAP70 expression between EC tissues and healthy intimal tissues were determined by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and immunohistochemistry. The present study found strong correlations between key genes, including ZAP70, LCK, FOXP3, TIGIT, CTLA4, ICOS, CD5, IL2RG, PDCD1, TNFRSF4, CD27, CCR7, GZMB, CXCL9. From the enrichment analyses, it was found that the functions of these DEGs were related to T cells. Patients in group 2 had stronger immune infiltration and higher immune checkpoints expression compared with those in group 1. ZAP70 was expressed at higher levels in EC tissues compared with in normal tissues, and may act as a protective factor in EC. In conclusion, ZAP70 interaction with 13 mRNAs may affect the immune status of patients with EC and may be a potential target for immunotherapy.
CD4+ T cells are typically considered as 'helper' or 'regulatory' populations that support and orchestrate the responses of other lymphocytes. However, they can also develop potent granzyme (Gzm)-mediated cytotoxic activity and CD4+ cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) have been amply documented both in humans and in mice, particularly in the context of human chronic infection and cancer. Despite the established description of CD4+ CTLs, as well as of the critical cytotoxic activity they exert against MHC class II-expressing targets, their developmental and memory maintenance requirements remain elusive. This is at least in part owing to the lack of a murine experimental system where CD4+ CTLs are stably induced. Here, we show that viral and bacterial vectors encoding the same epitope induce distinct CD4+ CTL responses in challenged mice, all of which are nevertheless transient in nature and lack recall properties. Consistent with prior reports, CD4+ CTL differentiation is accompanied by loss of TCF-1 expression, a transcription factor considered essential for memory T cell survival. Using genetic ablation of Tcf7, which encodes TCF-1, at the time of CD4+ T cell activation, we further show that, contrary to observations in CD8+ T cells, continued expression of TCF-1 is not required for CD4+ T cell memory survival. Whilst Tcf7-deficient CD4+ T cells persisted normally following retroviral infection, the CD4+ CTL subset still declined, precluding conclusive determination of the requirement for TCF-1 for murine CD4+ CTL survival. Using xenotransplantation of human CD4+ T cells into murine recipients, we demonstrate that human CD4+ CTLs develop and persist in the same experimental conditions where murine CD4+ CTLs fail to persist. These observations uncover a species-specific defect in murine CD4+ CTL persistence with implications for their use as a model system.
BACKGROUND: The scavenger receptor CD36 was reported to be highly expressed on tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells, but the clinical role remains obscure. This study aims to explore the infiltration and clinical value of CD36+CD8+ T cells in NSCLC.METHODS: Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence were conducted for survival analyses and immunological evaluation in 232 NSCLC patients in Zhongshan Hospital. Flow cytometry analyses were carried out to assess the immune cells from fresh tumor samples, non-tumor tissues and peripheral blood. In vitro tumor infiltrating lymphocytes cultures were conducted to test the effect of CD36 blockage.RESULTS: Accumulation of CD36+CD8+ T cells in tumor tissues was correlated with more advanced stage (p < 0.001), larger tumor size (p < 0.01), and lymph node metastasis (p < 0.0001) in NSCLC. Moreover, high infiltration of CD36+CD8+ T cells indicated poor prognosis in terms of both overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) and inferior chemotherapy response. CD36+CD8+ T cells showed decreased GZMB (p < 0.0001) and IFN-γ (p < 0.001) with elevated PD-1 (p < 0.0001) and TIGIT (p < 0.0001). Analysis of tumor-infiltrating immune cell landscape revealed a positive correlation between CD36+CD8+ T cells and Tregs (p < 0.01) and M2-polarized macrophages (p < 0.01) but a negative correlation with Th1 (p < 0.05). Notably, inhibition of CD36 partially restored the cytotoxic function of CD8+ T cells by producing more GZMB and IFN-γ.CONCLUSION: CD36+CD8+ T cells exhibit impaired immune function and high infiltration of CD36+CD8+ T cells indicated poor prognosis and inferior chemotherapy response in NSCLC patients. CD36 could be a therapeutic target in combination with chemotherapy in NSCLC patients.
Photosynthesis, the ability to fix atmospheric carbon dioxide, was acquired by eukaryotes through symbiosis: the plastids of plants and algae resulted from a cyanobacterial symbiosis that commenced more than 1.5 billion years ago and has chartered a unique evolutionary path. This resulted in the evolutionary origin of plants and algae. Some extant land plants have recruited additional biochemical aid from symbiotic cyanobacteria; these plants associate with filamentous cyanobacteria that fix atmospheric nitrogen. Examples of such interactions can be found in select species from across all major lineages of land plants. The recent rise in genomic and transcriptomic data has provided new insights into the molecular foundation of these interactions. Furthermore, the hornwort Anthoceros has emerged as a model system for the molecular biology of cyanobacteria-plant interactions. Here, we review these developments driven by high-throughput data and pinpoint their power to yield general patterns across these diverse symbioses.
Melanoma stem cells (MSCs)-based vaccine strategies have been a potent immunotherapeutic approach for melanoma treatment, which aimed at inducing specific anti-tumor immunity and targeting cancer stem-like cells. As the main cancer-fighting immune cells, CD8+T cells play an important role in vaccine-induced antitumor immunity. Here, we developed a novel MSC vaccine that induces CD8+T cells to target melanoma stem cells specifically. The MSC vaccine was prepared for our study in order to determine the effectiveness of antitumor immunity. The proportion and activity of CD8+T cells were examined in the spleen after immunization, in particular, the expression and cytotoxicity of the immune checkpoint of spleen lymphocytes were detected by flow cytometry and ELISA, moreover, tumor size and the number of lung metastasis nodules were observed and the specific killing effect of the vaccine was evaluated in immunized mice. We found that the MSC vaccine could promote DCs maturation, activate CD8+T cells, suppress the expression of CTLA-4, PD-1, and Tim-3, and increase the expression of IFN-γ and GzmB of CD8+T cells. Melanoma growth and metastasis were inhibited by the vaccine's specific targeted killing effect. The vaccines based on melanoma stem cells (MSCs) delay the progression of melanoma by inducing anti-tumor immune responses in CD8+T cells.
Allograft rejection has always been a major obstacle in organ transplantation. The current clinical diagnostic gold standard for allograft rejection is an invasive biopsy. However, biopsy has some limitations, such as sampling errors, risk of serious complications, and high cost. In this study, we have rationally developed an activatable fluorescent probe CYGB for imaging of granzyme B, which is a biomarker released by CD8+T cells attacking the graft. Moreover, the ability of CYGB to detect rejection early in mouse heart and skin transplantation models was evaluated. The probe CYGB consists of a caged hemicyanine-based fluorophore and a GzmB-specifically cleaved peptide substrate linked via a self-immolating spacer, p-aminobenzyl alcohol. Endogenous GzmB in CD8+ T cells specifically activated the near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF) signal of CYGB. In vivo imaging in mice skin and heart graft models, showed that CYGB preferentially accumulates in grafts, enabling early diagnosis of rejection. Moreover, CYGB enables non-invasive assessment of the level of immunosuppression in allogeneic mice treated with FK506. This study provides an alternative method for monitoring the status of allografts without biopsy.
PURPOSE: Though programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) inhibitors mainly target tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) expressing PD-1, developing T cells in thymus also express PD-1 in their process of maturation. To predict the therapeutic effect of PD-1 inhibitors for thymoma, it is necessary to clarify the proportions of TILs and intratumoral developing T cells.METHODS: The expressions of CD4, CD8, and PD-1 on T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry in 31 thymomas. The amount of T cell receptor excision circles (TRECs), which can be detected in newly formed naïve T cells in the thymus, was evaluated using sorted lymphocytes from thymomas by quantitative PCR. The expressions of granzyme B (GZMB) and lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) in PD-1 + CD8 T cells were analyzed by image cytometry using multiplex immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: The PD-1 + rate in both CD4 and CD8 T cells was significantly higher in type AB/B1/B2 than in type A/B3 thymomas. The amounts of TRECs in CD4 and CD8 T cells were significantly higher in type AB/B1/B2 than in type A/B3 thymomas and comparable to normal thymus. PD-1 expression at each stage of T cell development of type AB/B1/B2 thymomas was comparable to that of normal thymus. Both the percentages and cell densities of PD-1 + CD8 T cells expressing GZMB or LAG-3, which are known to contain tumor-reactive T cells, were significantly lower in type AB/B1/B2 thymomas.CONCLUSION: Most PD-1 + T cells in type AB/B1/B2 thymomas are intratumoral developing T cells and are not TILs.
Condyloma acuminata (CA) is a benign proliferative disease mainly affecting in non-keratinized epithelia. Most cases of CA are caused by low-risk human papillomavirus (HPV), mainly HPV 6 and 11. The aim of the current study was to highlight the candidate genes and pathways associated with immune alterations in individuals who did not spontaneously eliminate the virus and, thus, develop genital warts. Paraffin-embedded condyloma samples (n = 56) were analyzed by immunohistochemistry using antibodies against CD1a, FOXP3, CD3, CD4, CD8, and IFN-γ. The immunomarkers were chosen based on the evaluation of the innate and adaptive immune pathways using qPCR analysis of 92 immune-related genes, applying a TaqMan Array Immune Response assay in HPV 6 or HPV 11 positive samples (n = 27). Gene expression analysis revealed 31 differentially expressed genes in CA lesions. Gene expression validation revealed upregulation of GZMB, IFNG, IL12B, and IL8 and downregulation of NFATC4 and IL7 in CA samples. Immunohistochemical analysis showed increased FOXP3, IFN-γ, CD1a, and CD4 expression in CA than in the control tissue samples. In contrast, CD3 and CD8 expression was decreased in CA lesion samples. Increased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in HPV-positive patients compared with HPV-negative patients seem to reflect the elevated immunogenicity of HPV-positive CA lesions. Host defense against HPV begins during the early stages of the innate immune response and is followed by activation of T lymphocytes, which are mainly represented by CD4+ and regulatory T cells. The low CD8+ T cell count in CA may contribute to this recurrent behavior. Additional studies are needed to elucidate the mechanism of host defense against HPV infection in CA.
Over 150,000 Americans are diagnosed with colorectal cancer (CRC) every year, and annually >50,000 individuals will die of CRC, necessitating improvements in screening, prognostication, disease management, and therapeutic options. CRC tumors are removed en bloc with surrounding vasculature and lymphatics. Examination of regional lymph nodes at the time of surgical resection is essential for prognostication. Developing alternative approaches to indirectly assess recurrence risk would have utility in cases where lymph node yield is incomplete or inadequate. Spatially dependent, immune cell-specific (eg, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes), proteomic, and transcriptomic expression patterns inside and around the tumor-the tumor immune microenvironment-can predict nodal/distant metastasis and probe the coordinated immune response from the primary tumor site. The comprehensive characterization of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and other immune infiltrates is possible using highly multiplexed spatial omics technologies, such as the GeoMX Digital Spatial Profiler. In this study, machine learning and differential co-expression analyses helped identify biomarkers from Digital Spatial Profiler-assayed protein expression patterns inside, at the invasive margin, and away from the tumor, associated with extracellular matrix remodeling (eg, GZMB and fibronectin), immune suppression (eg, FOXP3), exhaustion and cytotoxicity (eg, CD8), PD-L1-expressing dendritic cells, and neutrophil proliferation, among other concomitant alterations. Further investigation of these biomarkers may reveal independent risk factors of CRC metastasis that can be formulated into low-cost, widely available assays.
BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy (IO) plus tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) emerged as standard first-line therapy for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). The heme Oxygenase 1 (HMOX1) pathway is involved in tumor development and treatment resistance, which may affect the efficacy of TKI + IO.METHODS: Two cohorts from our center (ZS-MRCC, ZS-HRRCC), one cohort from clinical trial (JAVELIN Renal 101) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA-KIRC) were enrolled. HMOX1 pathway signatures were determined for each sample by RNA-sequencing and gene set enrichment analysis. Immune infiltration was evaluated by flow cytometry. Response and progression-free survival (PFS) were set as primary endpoints.RESULTS: Patients of low-HMOX1 signature showed higher objective response rate (43.5% vs. 27.3%) in ZS-MRCC cohort and longer PFS in both cohorts (ZS-MRCC cohort, p = 0.019; JAVELIN-101 cohort, p = 0.036). Patients in the high-HMOX1 signature arm also showed greater clinical benefit from TKI + IO, rather than TKI monotherapy (p < 0.001). In high-HMOX1 signature RCC tissues, CD8+ T cells showed a dysfunctional phenotype with decreased GZMB expression (Spearman's ρ = -0.32, p = 0.045). A risk score based on HMOX1 signature was further constructed by random forest approach, involving HMOX1 signature and immunologic features. In patients with a low risk level, TKI + IO combination therapy demonstrated longer PFS than TKI monotherapy (p < 0.001), however in individuals with a high risk score group, these two regimens did not give different advantages.CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified the HMOX1 pathway signature was a potential prognostic factor of progression-free survival for TKI + IO combination therapy in the advanced RCC in different cohort, especially in first-line management of mRCC in the Javelin 101 cohort. Moreover, HMOX1 signature was associated with T-cell function in tumor environment.
Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) secreted by tumors was reported as a deleterious factor that led to the reduction of lymphocyte infiltration and the poorer efficacy of ICIs in vivo. This study aimed to explore whether PCSK9 expression in tumor tissue could predict the response of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy and the synergistic antitumor effect of the combination of the PCSK9 inhibitor with the anti-CD137 agonist. One hundred fifteen advanced NSCLC patients who received anti-PD-1 immunotherapy were retrospectively studied with PCSK9 expression in baseline NSCLC tissues detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC). The mPFS of the PCSK9lo group was significantly longer than that of the PCSK9hi group [8.1 vs. 3.6 months, hazard ratio (HR): 3.450; 95% confidence interval (CI), 2.166-5.496]. A higher objective response rate (ORR) and a higher disease control rate (DCR) were observed in the PCSK9lo group than in the PCSK9hi group (54.4% vs. 34.5%, 94.7% vs. 65.5%). Reduction and marginal distribution of CD8+ T cells were observed in PCSK9hi NSCLC tissues. Tumor growth was retarded by the PCSK9 inhibitor and the anti-CD137 agonist alone in the Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) mice model and further retarded by the PCSK9 inhibitor in combination with the CD137 agonist with long-term survival of the host mice with noticeable increases of CD8+ and GzmB+ CD8+ T cells and reduction of Tregs. Together, these results suggested that high PCSK9 expression in baseline tumor tissue was a deleterious factor for the efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in advanced NSCLC patients. The PCSK9 inhibitor in combination with the anti-CD137 agonist could not only enhance the recruitment of CD8+ and GzmB+ CD8+ T cells but also deplete Tregs, which may be a novel therapeutic strategy for future research and clinical practice.
PURPOSE: Immunotherapy (IO) plus tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) has become the first-line treatment for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC), despite the lack of prognostic biomarkers. CDK5 affects the tumor microenvironment (TME), which may influence the efficacy of TKI+IO.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two cohorts from our center (ZS-MRCC, ZS-HRRCC) and one cohort from a clinical trial (JAVELIN-101) were enrolled. The expression of CDK5 of each sample was determined by RNA sequencing. Immune infiltration and T cell function were evaluated by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry. Response and progression-free survival (PFS) were set as primary endpoints.RESULTS: Patients of low CDK5 expression showed higher objective response rate (60% vs. 23.3%) and longer PFS in both cohorts (ZS-MRCC cohort, p=0.014; JAVELIN-101 cohort, p=0.04). CDK5 expression was enhanced in non-responders (p<0.05). In the ZS-HRRCC cohort, CDK5 was associated with decreased tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells, which was proved by immunohistochemistry (p<0.05) and flow cytometry (Spearman's ρ=-0.49, p<0.001). In the high CDK5 subgroup, CD8+ T cells revealed a dysfunction phenotype with decreased GZMB, and more Tregs were identified. A predictive score was further constructed by random forest, involving CDK5 and T cell exhaustion features. The RFscore was also validated in both cohorts. By utilizing the model, more patients might be distinguished from the overall cohort. Additionally, only in the low RFscore did IO+TKI outperform TKI monotherapy.CONCLUSION: High-CDK5 expression was associated with immunosuppression and IO+TKI resistance. RFscore based on CDK5 may be utilized as a biomarker to determine the optimal treatment strategy.
BACKGROUND: The cabbage stem flea beetle (Psylliodes chrysocephala) is one of the most important insect pests of oilseed rape (Brassica napus) in northern Europe. The emergence of insecticide-resistant populations and the ban on neonicotinoid seed treatments have made the management of this pest challenging and research is needed to develop alternative strategies such as RNA interference (RNAi). We investigated lethal and sublethal effects of orally delivered double-stranded (ds)RNAs targeting P. chrysocephala orthologs of Sec23 and vacuolar adenosine triphosphatase subunit G (VatpG), which are involved in endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi transport and organelle acidification, respectively.RESULTS: Feeding bioassays on P. chrysocephala adults showed that the highest concentration (200 ng/leaf disk) of dsSec23 caused mortalities of 76% and 56% in pre-aestivating and post-aestivating beetles, respectively, while the same concentration of dsVatpG led to mortality rates of ~34% in both stages. Moreover, sublethal effects, such as decreased feeding rates and attenuated locomotion were observed. Small RNA sequencing and gene expression measurements following the delivery of dsRNAs demonstrated the generation of ~21 nucleotide-long small interfering RNAs and a systemic RNAi response in P. chrysocephala.CONCLUSION: We demonstrate that P. chrysocephala is a promising candidate for developing RNAi-based pest management strategies. Further research is necessary to identify more effective target genes and to assess potential non-target effects. © 2023 The Authors. Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.
The proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexins (PCSKs) regulate biological actions by cleaving immature substrate proteins. The archetype PCSK, FURIN, promotes the pathogenicity of viruses by proteolytically processing viral proteins. FURIN has also important regulatory functions in both innate and adaptive immune responses but its role in the CD8+ CTLs remains enigmatic. We used a T-cell-specific FURIN deletion in vivo to demonstrate that FURIN promotes host response against the CTL-dependent lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus by virtue of restricting viral burden and augmenting interferon gamma (IFNG) production. We also characterized Furin KO CD8+ T cells ex vivo, including after their activation with FURIN regulating cytokines IL12 or TGFB1. Furin KO CD8+ T cells show an inherently activated phenotype characterized by the upregulation of effector genes and increased frequencies of CD44+ , TNF+ , and IFNG+ cells. In the activated CTLs, FURIN regulates the productions of IL2, TNF, and GZMB and the genes associated with the TGFBR-signaling pathway. FURIN also controls the expression of Eomes, Foxo1, and Bcl6 and the levels of ITGAE and CD62L, which implies a role in the development of CTL memory. Collectively, our data suggest that the T-cell expressed FURIN is important for host responses in viral infections, CTL homeostasis/activation, and memory development.
Natural killer (NK) cells are a potent innate source of cytokines and cytoplasmic granules. Their effector functions are tightly synchronized by the balance between the stimulatory and inhibitory receptors. Here, we quantified the proportion of NK cells and the surface presence of Galectin-9 (Gal-9) from the bone marrow, blood, liver, spleen, and lungs of adult and neonatal mice. We also examined the effector functions of Gal-9+NK cells compared with their Gal-9- counterparts. Our results revealed that Gal-9+NK cells are more abundant in tissues, in particular, in the liver than in the blood and bone marrow. We found Gal-9 presence was associated with enhanced cytotoxic effector molecules granzyme B (GzmB) and perforin expression. Likewise, Gal-9 expressing NK cells displayed greater IFN-γ and TNF-α expression than their negative counterparts under hemostatic circumstances. Notably, the expansion of Gal-9+NK cells in the spleen of mice infected with E. coli implies that Gal-9+NK cells may provide a protective role against infection. Similarly, we found the expansion of Gal-9+NK cells in the spleen and tumor tissues of melanoma B16-F10 mice. Mechanistically, our results revealed the interaction of Gal-9 with CD44 as noted by their co-expression/co-localization. Subsequently, this interaction resulted in enhanced expression of Phospho-LCK, ERK, Akt, MAPK, and mTOR in NK cells. Moreover, we found Gal-9+NK cells exhibited an activated phenotype as evidenced by increased CD69, CD25, and Sca-1 but reduced KLRG1 expression. Likewise, we found Gal-9 preferentially interacts with CD44high in human NK cells. Despite this interaction, we noted a dichotomy in terms of effector functions in NK cells from COVID-19 patients. We observed that the presence of Gal-9 on NK cells resulted in a greater IFN-γ expression without any changes in cytolytic molecule expression in these patients. These observations suggest differences in Gal-9+NK cell effector functions between mice and humans that should be considered in different physiological and pathological conditions. Therefore, our results highlight the important role of Gal-9 via CD44 in NK cell activation, which suggests Gal-9 is a potential new avenue for the development of therapeutic approaches to modulate NK cell effector functions.
The effectiveness of neoadjuvant immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy is confirmed in clinical trials; however, the patients suitable for receiving this therapy remain unspecified. Previous studies have demonstrated that the tumor microenvironment (TME) dominates immunotherapy; therefore, an effective TME classification strategy is required. In this study, five crucial immunophenotype-related molecules (WARS, UBE2L6, GZMB, BATF2, and LAG-3) in the TME are determined in five public gastric cancer (GC) datasets (n = 1426) and an in-house sequencing dataset (n = 79). Based on this, a GC immunophenotypic score (IPS) is constructed using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox, and randomSurvivalForest. IPSLow is characterized as immune-activated, and IPSHigh is immune-silenced. Data from seven centers (n = 1144) indicate that the IPS is a robust and independent biomarker for GC and superior to the AJCC stage. Furthermore, patients with an IPSLow and a combined positive score of ≥5 are likely to benefit from neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 therapy. In summary, the IPS can be a useful quantitative tool for immunophenotyping to improve clinical outcomes and provide a practical reference for implementing neoadjuvant ICI therapy for patients with GC.
Forests provide invaluable economic, ecological, and social services. At the same time, they are exposed to several threats, such as fragmentation, changing climatic conditions, or increasingly destructive pests and pathogens. Trees, the inherent species of forests, cannot be viewed as isolated organisms. Manifold (micro)organisms are associated with trees playing a pivotal role in forest ecosystems. Of these organisms, fungi may have the greatest impact on the life of trees. A multitude of molecular and genetic methods are now available to investigate tree species and their associated organisms. Due to their smaller genome sizes compared to tree species, whole genomes of different fungi are routinely compared. Such studies have only recently started in forest tree species. Here, we summarize the application of molecular and genetic methods in forest conservation genetics, tree breeding, and association genetics as well as for the investigation of fungal communities and their interrelated ecological functions. These techniques provide valuable insights into the molecular basis of adaptive traits, the impacts of forest management, and changing environmental conditions on tree species and fungal communities and can enhance tree-breeding cycles due to reduced time for field testing. It becomes clear that there are multifaceted interactions among microbial species as well as between these organisms and trees. We demonstrate the versatility of the different approaches based on case studies on trees and fungi. KEY POINTS: • Current knowledge of genetic methods applied to forest trees and associated fungi. • Genomic methods are essential in conservation, breeding, management, and research. • Important role of phytobiomes for trees and their ecosystems.
Retraction of    Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Jul;103:346-354.
BACKGROUND: Mechanisms contributing to COVID-19 severity in people with HIV (PWH) are poorly understood. We evaluated temporal changes in plasma proteins following SARS-CoV-2 infection and identified pre-infection proteomic markers associated with future COVID-19.METHODS: We leveraged data from the global Randomized Trial to Prevent Vascular Events in HIV (REPRIEVE). Antiretroviral therapy (ART)-treated PWH with clinical, antibody-confirmed COVID-19 as of September 2021 were matched on geographic region, age, and sample timing to antibody negative controls. For cases and controls, pre COVID-19 pandemic specimens were obtained prior to January 2020 to assess change over time and relationship to COVID-19 severity, using false-discovery adjusted mixed effects modeling.FINDINGS: We compared 257 unique plasma proteins in 94 COVID-19 antibody-confirmed clinical cases and 113 matched antibody-negative controls, excluding COVID-19 vaccinated participants (age 50 years, 73% male). 40% of cases were characterized as mild; 60% moderate to severe. Median time from COVID-19 infection to follow-up sampling was 4 months. Temporal patterns of protein changes differed based on COVID-19 disease severity. Among those experiencing moderate to severe disease vs. controls, NOS3 increased whereas ANG, CASP-8, CD5, GZMH, GZMB, ITGB2, and KLRD1 decreased. Higher pre-pandemic levels of granzymes A, B and H (GZMA, GZMB and GZMH) were associated with the future development of moderate-severe COVID-19 and were related to immune function.INTERPRETATION: We identified temporal changes in proteins closely linked to inflammatory, immune, and fibrotic pathways which may relate to COVID-19-related morbidity among ART-treated PWH. Further we identified key granzyme proteins associated with future COVID-19 in PWH.FUNDING: This study is supported through NIH grants U01HL123336, U01HL123336-06 and 3U01HL12336-06S3, to the clinical coordinating center, and U01HL123339, to the data coordinating center as well as funding from Kowa Pharmaceuticals, Gilead Sciences, and a grant award through ViiV Healthcare. The NIAID supported this study through grants UM1 AI068636, which supports the AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) Leadership and Operations Center, and UM1 AI106701, which supports the ACTG Laboratory Center. This work was also supported by NIAID through grant K24AI157882 to MZ. The work of IS was supported by the intramural research program of NIAID/NIH.
Recent studies and clinical evidence have strongly supported the development of adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) antagonists as novel approaches for cancer immunotherapy. By screening our in-house compound library, a pyridinone hit compound (1) with weak A2AR antagonistic activity was identified. Further structure-activity relationship studies revealed a series of pyridinone derivatives with strong potency. Compound 38 stood out with a potent A2AR antagonistic activity (IC50 = 29.0 nM), good mouse liver microsomal metabolic stability (t1/2 = 86.1 min), and excellent oral bioavailability (F = 86.1%). Of note, 38 effectively enhanced the activation and killing ability of T cells in vitro by down-regulation of immunosuppressive molecules (LAG-3 and TIM-3) and up-regulation of effector molecules (GZMB, IFNG, and IL-2). Moreover, 38 exhibited excellent in vivo antitumor activity with a tumor growth inhibition (TGI) of 56.0% in the MC38 tumor model via oral administration, demonstrating its potential as a novel A2AR antagonist candidate for cancer immunotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence has revealed that CD8+ T cell exhaustion (Tex) results in worse immunotherapy outcomes. However, the molecular functions and mechanisms of action of Tex in chemoresistance needed to be elucidated.METHODS: The populations of tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells (TILCD8Ts) in chemoresistant and chemosensitive groups of the GSE25066 dataset were calculated using CIBERSORT. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between TILCD8Ts and other immune cells were explored by integrating 16 immune cell datasets downloaded from the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database. Gene ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, univariate and multivariate Cox regression, and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression of TILCD8T-specific upregulated genes were used to construct a chemoresistant TILCD8T signature (cr-TILCD8TSig). Clinical prognostic data, genomic alterations, chemotherapy response, and immunotherapy response were compared between the different cr-TILCD8TSig subgroups in the GSE25066 and the cancer genome atlas breast cancer (TCGA-BRCA) cohorts.RESULTS: A cr-TILCD8TSig with exhausted features was identified, consisting of seven genes (TCF7, RARRES3, ARL4C, ITK, CDH3, GZMB, and KLRD1), which were identified from 104 TILCD8Ts-specific DEGs. Our results showed that compared to the cr-TILCD8TSig-low subgroup, the -high subgroup had a poorer distant relapse-free survival (DRFS) in the GSE25066 cohort and worse progression-free survival (PFS) in the TCGA-BRCA cohort. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses also demonstrated that cr-TILCD8TSig was an independent prognostic factor in the two independent cohorts. Furthermore, cr-TILCD8TSig-low patients benefited more from chemotherapy and immunotherapy than cr-TILCD8TSig-high patients. Besides, we found cell transmembrane signal transduction and the ECM may provide the molecular basis for resistance to antitumor agents in the cr-TILCD8Sig-high subgroup. For genomic alterations, we revealed that mutations in PIK3CA, DMD, and APOB were more common in the cr-TILCD8Sig-high subgroup than in the cr-TILCD8Sig-low subgroup. A nomogram was finally constructed with good discrimination and calibration.CONCLUSIONS: cr-TILCD8TSig is a useful tool to independently predict prognosis, chemotherapy response, and immunotherapy outcomes in patients with breast cancer.
PURPOSE: Pyroptosis exerts an undesirable impact on the clinical outcome of breast cancer. Since any single gene is insufficient to be an appropriate marker for pyroptosis, our aim is to develop a pyroptosis-related gene (PRG) signature to predict the survival status and immunological landscape for breast cancer patients.METHODS: The information of breast cancer patients was retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was performed to verify the gene expressions of this signature in breast cancer. Its prognostic value was evaluated by univariate Cox analysis, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis, receiver operating characteristics (ROCs), univariate/multivariate analysis, and nomogram. Analyses of Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) were performed to explore its potential biological function in breast cancer. The potential correlation between this signature and tumor immunity was revealed based on single sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA), ESTIMATE and CIBERSORT algorithms.RESULTS: A PRG signature containing GSDMC, GZMB, IL18, and TP63 was created in a TCGA training cohort and validated in two validation GEO cohorts GSE58812 and GSE37751. Compared with a human mammary epithelial cell line MCF-10A, the expression levels of GSDMC, GZMB and IL18 were upregulated, while TP63 was found with lower expression level in breast cancer cells SK-BR-3, BT-549, MCF-7, and MDA-MB-231 using RT-qPCR assay. Based on univariate and multivariate Cox models, ROC curve, nomogram as well as calibration curve, it was revealed that this signature with high-risk score could independently predict poor clinical outcomes in breast cancer. Enrichment analyses demonstrated that the involved mechanism was tightly linked to immune-related processes. SsGSEA, ESTIMATE and CIBERSORT algorithms further pointed out that the established model might exert an impact on immune cell abundance, immune cell types and immune-checkpoint markers. Furthermore, individuals with breast cancer responded differently to these therapeutic agents based on this signature.CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggested that this PRG signature with high risk was tightly associated with impaired immune function, possibly resulting in an unfavorable outcome for breast cancer patients.
Both obesity and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) can lead to metabolic dysregulation and systemic inflammation. Similar to obesity, increasing evidence has revealed that immune infiltration in the visceral adipose tissue (VAT) is associated with obstructive sleep apnea-related morbidity. However, the pathological changes and potential molecular mechanisms in visceral adipose tissue of obstructive sleep apnea patients need to be further studied. Herein, by bioinformatics analysis and clinical validation methods, including the immune-related differentially expressed genes (IRDEGs) analysis, protein-protein interaction network (PPI), functional enrichment analysis, a devolution algorithm (CIBERSORT), spearman's correlation analysis, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunohistochemistry (IHC), we identified and validated 10 hub IRDEGs, the relative mRNA expression of four hub genes (CRP, CD40LG, CCL20, and GZMB), and the protein expression level of two hub genes (CD40LG and GZMB) were consistent with the bioinformatics analysis results. Immune infiltration results further revealed that obstructive sleep apnea patients contained a higher proportion of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages and a lower proportion of M2 macrophages. Spearman's correlation analysis showed that CD40LG was positively correlated with M1 macrophages and GZMB was negatively correlated with M2 macrophages. CD40LG and GZMB might play a vital role in the visceral adipose tissue homeostasis of obstructive sleep apnea patients. Their interaction with macrophages and involved pathways not only provides new insights for understanding molecular mechanisms but also be of great significance in discovering novel small molecules or other promising candidates as immunotherapies of OSA-associated metabolic complications.
One route of human exposure to environmental chemicals is oral uptake. This is primarily true for chemicals that may leach from food packaging materials, such as bisphenols and phthalate esters. Upon ingestion, these compounds are transported along the intestinal tract, from where they can be taken up into the blood stream or distributed to mucosal sites. At mucosal sites, mucosal immune cells and in the blood stream peripheral immune cells may be exposed to these chemicals potentially modulating immune cell functions. In the present study, we investigated the impact of three common bisphenols and two phthalate esters on mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells in vitro, a frequent immune cell type in the intestinal mucosae and peripheral blood of humans. All compounds were non-cytotoxic at the chosen concentrations. MAIT cell activation was only slightly affected as seen by flow cytometric analysis. Phthalate esters did not affect MAIT cell gene expression, while bisphenol-exposure induced significant changes. Transcriptional changes occurred in ∼ 25 % of genes for BPA, ∼ 22 % for BPF and ∼ 8 % for BPS. All bisphenols down-modulated expression of CCND2, CCL20, GZMB and IRF4, indicating an effect on MAIT cell effector function. Further, BPA and BPF showed a high overlap in modulated genes involved in cellular stress response, activation signaling and effector function suggesting that BPF may not be safe substitute for BPA.
SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: T-cell infiltration is a hallmark of crescentic GN (cGN), often caused by ANCA-associated vasculitis. Pathogenic T-cell subsets, their clonality, and downstream effector mechanisms leading to kidney injury remain to be fully elucidated. Single-cell RNA sequencing and T-cell receptor sequencing revealed activated, clonally expanded cytotoxic CD4 + and CD8 + T cells in kidneys from patients with ANCA-associated cGN. In experimental cGN, kidney-infiltrating CD8 + T cells expressed the cytotoxic molecule, granzyme B (GzmB), which induced apoptosis in renal tissue cells by activation of procaspase-3, and aggravated disease pathology. These findings describe a pathogenic function of (clonally expanded) cytotoxic T cells in cGN and identify GzmB as a mediator and potential therapeutic target in immune-mediated kidney disease.BACKGROUND: Crescentic GN (cGN) is an aggressive form of immune-mediated kidney disease that is an important cause of end stage renal failure. Antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis is a common cause. T cells infiltrate the kidney in cGN, but their precise role in autoimmunity is not known.METHODS: Combined single-cell RNA sequencing and single-cell T-cell receptor sequencing were conducted on CD3 + T cells isolated from renal biopsies and blood of patients with ANCA-associated cGN and from kidneys of mice with experimental cGN. Functional and histopathological analyses were performed with Cd8a-/- and GzmB-/- mice.RESULTS: Single-cell analyses identified activated, clonally expanded CD8 + and CD4 + T cells with a cytotoxic gene expression profile in the kidneys of patients with ANCA-associated cGN. Clonally expanded CD8 + T cells expressed the cytotoxic molecule, granzyme B (GzmB), in the mouse model of cGN. Deficiency of CD8 + T cells or GzmB ameliorated the course of cGN. CD8 + T cells promoted macrophage infiltration and GzmB activated procaspase-3 in renal tissue cells, thereby increasing kidney injury.CONCLUSIONS: Clonally expanded cytotoxic T cells have a pathogenic function in immune-mediated kidney disease.
BACKGROUND: Granzyme B (GZMB) gene is related to human immunity and is considered as one of the genes indulged in vitiligo.OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association between GZMB (R55Q) and (P94Q) gene polymorphisms with vitiligo development in a sample of vitiligo Egyptian patients.METHODS: This study was a case-control study which included 100 non-segmental vitiligo patients as well as a control group consisted of 100 healthy, sex and age matched vitiligo free individuals. The polymorphism of GZMB gene at (R55Q) and (P94A) were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS: P94Q and R55Q gene polymorphisms were significantly associated with higher VASI scores.CONCLUSION: GZMB (Q55R) and P94A) gene polymorphisms are associated with the susceptibility to develop vitiligo in the Egyptian population and could help predicting more extensive forms of the disease.
BACKGROUND: NK cell is one of innate immune cells and can protect the body from cancer-initiating cells. It has been reported that GPR116 receptor is involved in inflammation and tumors. However, the effect of GPR116 receptor on the NK cells remains largely unclear.RESULTS: We discovered that GPR116-/- mice could efficiently eliminate pancreatic cancer through enhancing the proportion and function of NK cells in tumor. Moreover, the expression of GPR116 receptor was decreased upon the activation of the NK cells. Besides, GPR116-/- NK cells showed higher cytotoxicity and antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo by producing more GzmB and IFNγ than wild-type (WT) NK cells. Mechanistically, GPR116 receptor regulated the function of NK cells via Gαq/HIF1α/NF-κB signaling pathway. Furthermore, downregulation of GPR116 receptor promoted the antitumor activity of NKG2D-CAR-NK92 cells against pancreatic cancer both in vitro and in vivo.CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicated that GPR116 receptor had a negatively effect on NK cell function and downregulation of GPR116 receptor in NKG2D-CAR-NK92 cells could enhance the antitumor activity, which provides a new idea to enhance the antitumor efficiency of CAR NK cell therapy.
Diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) is the histological expression of acute respiratory distress syndrome and characterises lung pathology due to infection with SARS-CoV-2, and other respiratory pathogens of clinical significance. DAD reflects a time-dependent immunopathological process, progressing from an early/exudative stage through to an organising/fibrotic stage, yet within an individual these different stages of DAD may coexist. Understanding the progression of DAD is central to the development of new therapeutics to limit progressive lung damage. Here, we applied highly multiplexed spatial protein profiling to autopsy lung tissues derived from 27 patients who died from COVID-19 and identified a protein signature (ARG1, CD127, GZMB, IDO1, Ki67, phospho-PRAS40 (T246) and VISTA) that distinguishes early DAD from late DAD with good predictive accuracy. These proteins warrant further investigation as potential regulators of DAD progression.
Significant changes have occurred in plant cell wall composition during evolution and diversification of tracheophytes. As the sister lineage to seed plants, knowledge on the cell wall of ferns is key to track evolutionary changes across tracheophytes and to understand seed plant-specific evolutionary innovations. Fern cell wall composition is not fully understood, including limited knowledge of glycoproteins such as the fern arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs). Here, we characterize the AGPs from the leptosporangiate fern genera Azolla, Salvinia, and Ceratopteris. The carbohydrate moiety of seed plant AGPs consists of a galactan backbone including mainly 1,3- and 1,3,6-linked pyranosidic galactose, which is conserved across the investigated fern AGPs. Yet, unlike AGPs of angiosperms, those of ferns contained the unusual sugar 3-O-methylrhamnose. Besides terminal furanosidic arabinose, Ara (Araf), the main linkage type of Araf in the ferns was 1,2-linked Araf, whereas in seed plants 1,5-linked Araf is often dominating. Antibodies directed against carbohydrate epitopes of AGPs supported the structural differences between AGPs of ferns and seed plants. Comparison of AGP linkage types across the streptophyte lineage showed that angiosperms have rather conserved monosaccharide linkage types; by contrast bryophytes, ferns, and gymnosperms showed more variability. Phylogenetic analyses of glycosyltransferases involved in AGP biosynthesis and bioinformatic search for AGP protein backbones revealed a versatile genetic toolkit for AGP complexity in ferns. Our data reveal important differences across AGP diversity of which the functional significance is unknown. This diversity sheds light on the evolution of the hallmark feature of tracheophytes: their elaborate cell walls.
Lynch syndrome (LS), also known as hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer syndrome (HNPCC) is a common genetic predisposition to cancer due to germline mutations in genes affecting DNA mismatch repair. Due to mismatch repair deficiency, developing tumors are characterized by microsatellite instability (MSI-H), high frequency of expressed neoantigens and good clinical response to immune checkpoint inhibitors. Granzyme B (GrB) is the most abundant serine protease in the granules of cytotoxic T-cells and natural killer cells, mediating anti-tumor immunity. However, recent results confirm a diverse range of physiological functions of GrB including that in extracellular matrix remodelling, inflammation and fibrosis. In the present study, our aim was to investigate whether a frequent genetic variation of GZMB, the gene encoding GrB, constituted by three missense single nucleotide polymorphisms (rs2236338, rs11539752 and rs8192917) has any association with cancer risk in individuals with LS. In silico analysis and genotype calls from whole exome sequencing data in the Hungarian population confirmed that these SNPs are closely linked. Genotyping results of rs8192917 on a cohort of 145 individuals with LS demonstrated an association of the CC genotype with lower cancer risk. In silico prediction proposed likely GrB cleavage sites in a high proportion of shared neontigens in MSI-H tumors. Our results propose the CC genotype of rs8192917 as a potential disease-modifying genetic factor in LS.
Model organisms such as the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis have been studied intensively for decades. However, even for model organisms, no function has been identified for about one fourth of all proteins. It has recently been realized that such understudied proteins as well as poorly studied functions set a limitation to our understanding of the requirements for cellular life, and the Understudied Proteins Initiative has been launched. Of poorly studied proteins, those that are strongly expressed are likely to be important to the cell and should therefore be considered high priority in further studies. Since the functional analysis of unknown proteins can be extremely laborious, a minimal knowledge is required prior to targeted functional studies. In this review, we discuss strategies to obtain such a minimal annotation, for example, from global interaction, expression, or localization studies. We present a set of 41 highly expressed and poorly studied proteins of B. subtilis. Several of these proteins are thought or known to bind RNA and/or the ribosome, some may control the metabolism of B. subtilis, and another subset of particularly small proteins may act as regulatory elements to control the expression of downstream genes. Moreover, we discuss the challenges of poorly studied functions with a focus on RNA-binding proteins, amino acid transport, and the control of metabolic homeostasis. The identification of the functions of the selected proteins not only will strongly advance our knowledge on B. subtilis, but also on other organisms since many of the proteins are conserved in many groups of bacteria.
T cells are present in early stages of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection and play a major role in disease outcome and long-lasting immunity. Nasal administration of a fully human anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (Foralumab) reduced lung inflammation as well as serum IL-6 and C-reactive protein in moderate cases of COVID-19. Using serum proteomics and RNA-sequencing, we investigated the immune changes in patients treated with nasal Foralumab. In a randomized trial, mild to moderate COVID-19 outpatients received nasal Foralumab (100 μg/d) given for 10 consecutive days and were compared to patients that did not receive Foralumab. We found that naïve-like T cells were increased in Foralumab-treated subjects and NGK7+ effector T cells were reduced. CCL5, IL32, CST7, GZMH, GZMB, GZMA, PRF1, and CCL4 gene expression were downregulated in T cells and CASP1 was downregulated in T cells, monocytes, and B cells in subjects treated with Foralumab. In addition to the downregulation of effector features, an increase in TGFB1 gene expression in cell types with known effector function was observed in Foralumab-treated subjects. We also found increased expression of GTP-binding gene GIMAP7 in subjects treated with Foralumab. Rho/ROCK1, a downstream pathway of GTPases signaling was downregulated in Foralumab-treated individuals. TGFB1, GIMAP7, and NKG7 transcriptomic changes observed in Foralumab-treated COVID-19 subjects were also observed in healthy volunteers, MS subjects, and mice treated with nasal anti-CD3. Our findings demonstrate that nasal Foralumab modulates the inflammatory response in COVID-19 and provides a novel avenue to treat the disease.
The clinical outcome of resectable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy is good but varies greatly. In addition, the pathological response after neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy is significantly associated with survival outcomes. The aim of this retrospective study was to identify which population of patients with locally advanced and oligometastatic NSCLC has a favorable pathological response after neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy. NSCLC patients treated with neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy were enrolled between February 2018 and April 2022. Data on clinicopathological features were collected and evaluated. Multiplex immunofluorescence was performed on pre-treatment puncture specimens and surgically resected specimens. In total, 29 patients with stages III and IV locally advanced or oligometastatic NSCLC who received neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy and R0 resection were enrolled. The results showed that 55% (16/29) of patients had a major pathological response (MPR) and 41% (12/29) of patients had a complete pathological response (pCR). In the stroma area of the pre-treatment specimen, the higher infiltration of CD3+ PD-L1+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and the lower infiltration of CD4+ and CD4+ FOXP3+ TILs were more likely to appear in patients with pCR. However, in the tumor area, the higher infiltration of CD8+ TILs was more likely to appear in patients with non-MPR. In the post-treatment specimen, we found increased infiltration of CD3+ CD8+ , CD8+ GZMB+ , and CD8+ CD69+ TILs and decreased infiltration of PD-1+ TILs both in the stroma and tumor areas. Neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy achieved an MPR rate of 55% and induced greater immune infiltration. In addition, we observed that the baseline TILs and their spatial distribution correlate to the pathological response.
The acquisition of cell invasiveness is the key transition from benign melanocyte hyperplasia to aggressive melanoma. Recent work has provided an intriguing new link between the presence of supernumerary centrosomes and increased cell invasion. Moreover, supernumerary centrosomes were shown to drive non-cell-autonomous invasion of cancer cells. Although centrosomes are the principal microtubule organizing centers, the role of dynamic microtubules for non-cell-autonomous invasion remains unexplored, in particular, in melanoma. We investigated the role of supernumerary centrosomes and dynamic microtubules in melanoma cell invasion and found that highly invasive melanoma cells are characterized by the presence of supernumerary centrosomes and by increased microtubule growth rates, both of which are functionally interlinked. We demonstrate that enhanced microtubule growth is required for increased three-dimensional melanoma cell invasion. Moreover, we show that the activity to enhance microtubule growth can be transferred onto adjacent noninvasive cells through microvesicles involving HER2. Hence, our study suggests that suppressing microtubule growth, either directly using anti-microtubule drugs or through HER2 inhibitors might be therapeutically beneficial to inhibit cell invasiveness and thus, metastasis of malignant melanoma.SIGNIFICANCE: This study shows that increased microtubule growth is required for melanoma cell invasion and can be transferred onto adjacent cells in a non-cell-autonomous manner through microvesicles involving HER2.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a complex autoimmune disease characterized by chronic inflammation that affects synovial tissues of multiple joints. Granzymes (Gzms) are serine proteases that are released into the immune synapse between cytotoxic lymphocytes and target cells. They enter target cells with the help of perforin to induce programmed cell death in inflammatory and tumor cells. Gzms may have a connection with RA. First, increased levels of Gzms have been found in the serum (GzmB), plasma (GzmA, GzmB), synovial fluid (GzmB, GzmM), and synovial tissue (GzmK) of patients with RA. Moreover, Gzms may contribute to inflammation by degrading the extracellular matrix and promoting cytokine release. They are thought to be involved in RA pathogenesis and have the potential to be used as biomarkers for RA diagnosis, although their exact role is yet to be fully elucidated. The purpose of this review was to summarize the current knowledge regarding the possible role of the granzyme family in RA, with the aim of providing a reference for future research on the mechanisms of RA and the development of new therapies.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) are the most common joint disorders. Although they have shown analogous clinical manifestations, the pathogenesis of RA and OA are different. In this study, we used the online Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) microarray expression profiling dataset GSE153015 to identify gene signatures between RA and OA joints. The relevant data on 8 subjects obtained from large joints of RA patients (RA-LJ), 8 subjects obtained from small joints of RA patients (RA-SJ), and 4 subjects with OA were investigated. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened. Functional enrichment analysis of DEGs including the Gene Ontology terms and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways were identified, which were mainly associated with T cell activation or chemokine activity. Besides, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis was performed, and key modules were identified. Hub genes of RA-LJ and OA groups were screened, they were CD8A, GZMB, CCL5, CD2, and CXCL9, whereas CD8A, CD2, IL7R, CD27, and GZMB were hub genes of RA-SJ and OA group. The novel DEGs and functional pathways between RA and OA identified in this study may provide new insight into the underlying molecular mechanisms and therapeutic strategies of RA and OA.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of irreversible central vision loss in the elderly. The pathology of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD), also known as wet AMD, is associated with an abnormal blood vessel growth in the eye and involves an imbalance of proangiogenic and antiangiogenic factors. Thrombospondin (TSP)-1 and TSP-2 are endogenous matricellular proteins that inhibit angiogenesis. TSP-1 is significantly diminished in eyes with AMD, although the mechanisms involved in its reduction are unknown. Granzyme B (GzmB) is a serine protease with an increased extracellular activity in the outer retina and choroid of the human eyes with nAMD-related choroidal neovascularization (CNV). This study investigated whether TSP-1 and TSP-2 are GzmB substrates using in silico and cell-free cleavage assays and explored the relationship between GzmB and TSP-1 in the human eyes with nAMD-related CNV and the effect of GzmB on TSP-1 in retinal pigment epithelial culture and an explant choroid sprouting assay (CSA). In this study, TSP-1 and TSP-2 were identified as GzmB substrates. Cell-free cleavage assays substantiated the GzmB proteolysis of TSP-1 and TSP-2 by showing dose-dependent and time-dependent cleavage products. The proteolysis of TSP-1 and TSP-2 were hindered by the inhibition of GzmB. In the retinal pigment epithelium and choroid of human eyes with CNV, we observed a significant inverse correlation between TSP-1 and GzmB, as indicated by lower TSP-1 levels and higher GzmB immunoreactivity. In the CSA, the vascular sprouting area increased significantly with GzmB treatment and reduced significantly with TSP-1 treatment. Western blot showed significantly reduced expression of TSP-1 in GzmB-treated retinal pigment epithelial cell culture and CSA supernatant compared with that in controls. Together, our findings suggest that the proteolysis of antiangiogenic factors such as TSP-1 by extracellular GzmB might represent a mechanism through which GzmB may contribute to nAMD-related CNV. Future studies are needed to investigate whether pharmacologic inhibition of extracellular GzmB can mitigate nAMD-related CNV by preserving intact TSP-1.
BACKGROUND: The C-X-C motif chemokine ligand-9 (CXCL9) is related to the progression of multiple neoplasms. Yet, its biological functions in uterine corpus endometrioid carcinoma (UCEC) remain shrouded in confusion. Here, we assessed the prognostic significance and potential mechanism of CXCL9 in UCEC.METHODS: Firstly, bioinformatics analysis of the public cancer database, including the Cancer Genome Atlas / the Genotype-Tissue Expression project (TCGA+ GTEx, n=552) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO): GSE63678 (n=7), were utilized for the CXCL9 expression-related analysis in UCEC. Then, the survival analysis of TCGA-UCEC was performed. Futher, the gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was carried out to reveal the potential molecular signaling pathway in UCEC associated with CXCL9 expression. Moreover, the immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay of our validation cohort (n=124) from human specimens were used to demonstrate the latent significance of CXCL9 in UCEC.RESULTS: The bioinformatics analysis suggested that CXCL9 expression was significantly upregulated in UCEC patients; and hyper-expression of CXCL9 was related to prolonged survival. the GSEA enrichment analysis showed various immune response-related pathways, including T/NK cell, lymphocyte activation, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction network, and chemokine signaling pathway, mediated by CXCL9. In addition, the cytotoxic molecules (IFNG, SLAMF7, JCHAIN, NKG7, GBP5, LYZ, GZMA, GZMB, and TNF3F9) and the immunosuppressive genes (including PD-L1) were positively related to the expression of CXCL9. Further, the IHC assay indicated that the CXCL9 protein expression was mainly located in intertumoral and significantly upregulated in the UCEC patients; UCEC with high intertumoral CXCL9 cell abundance harbored an improved prognosis; a higher ratio of anti-tumor immune cells (CD4+, CD8+, and CD56+ cell) and PD-L1 was found in UCEC with CXCL9 high expression.CONCLUSION: Overexpressed CXCL9 correlates with antitumor immunity and is predictive of a favorable prognosis in UCEC. It hinted that CXCL9 may serve as an independent prognostic biomarker or therapeutic target in UCEC patients, which augmented anti-tumor immune effects to furnish survival benefits.
Autoimmune diseases often present with cutaneous symptoms that contribute to dysfunction, disfigurement, and in many cases, reduced quality-of-life. Unfortunately, treatment options for many autoimmune skin diseases are limited. Local and systemic corticosteroids remain the current standard-of-care but are associated with significant adverse effects. Hence, there is an unmet need for novel therapies that block molecular drivers of disease in a local and/or targeted manner. Granzyme B (GzmB) is a serine protease with known cytotoxic activity and emerging extracellular functions, including the cleavage of cell-cell junctions, basement membranes, cell receptors, and other structural proteins. While minimal to absent in healthy skin, GzmB is markedly elevated in alopecia areata, interface dermatitis, pemphigoid disease, psoriasis, systemic sclerosis, and vitiligo. This review will discuss the role of GzmB in immunity, blistering, apoptosis, and barrier dysfunction in the context of autoimmune skin disease. GzmB plays a causal role in the development of pemphigoid disease and carries diagnostic and prognostic significance in cutaneous lupus erythematosus, vitiligo, and alopecia areata. Taken together, these data support GzmB as a promising therapeutic target for autoimmune skin diseases impacted by impaired barrier function, inflammation, and/or blistering.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) possess a wide range of mechanisms for immune suppression. Among them, Granzyme B (GzmB) and perforin expressed by Tregs were shown to inhibit tumor clearance in previous reports, which contradicted the canonical roles of these cytotoxic molecules expressed by cytotoxic T cells and NK cells in antitumor immune responses. Given the ability of the tumor to manipulate the microenvironment, Treg-derived GzmB function may represent an important approach to aid in tumor growth as well as facilitating tumor metastasis. In this study, we utilized Treg-specific GzmB knockout (Foxp3creGzmBfl/fl) mice to test whether Treg-derived GzmB can aid in tumor progression and metastasis. Using an IL-2 complex to activate GzmB expression in the non-immunogenic B16-F10 tumor model, we provide evidence to show that GzmB produced by Tregs is important for spontaneous metastasis to the lungs. In addition, we depleted CD8 + T cells to selectively measure the impact of Treg-derived GzmB in an experimental lung metastasis model by intravenous injection of B16-F10 tumor cells; our results demonstrate that Treg-derived GzmB plays an important role in increasing the metastatic burden to the lungs.
Author information:(1)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics, Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany.(2)CE3C - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes & CHANGE - Global Change and Sustainability Institute, Departamento de Biologia Animal, Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal; Faculdade de Psicologia, Universidade de Lisboa, Alameda da Universidade, 1649-013 Lisboa, Portugal.(3)The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Ave, New York, NY 10065, USA.(4)Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Darwinweg 2, 2333, CR, Leiden, The Netherlands; Wellcome Sanger Institute, Tree of Life, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, CB10 1SA, UK.(5)NIVA - Norwegian Institute for Water Research, Økernveien, 94, 0579 Oslo, Norway; Centre for Coastal Research, University of Agder, Gimlemoen 25j, 4630 Kristiansand, Norway; Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo, PO BOX 1066 Blinderm, 0316 Oslo, Norway.(6)University of Göttingen, Department of Animal Evolution and Biodiversity, Untere Karspüle, 2, 37073, Göttingen, Germany.(7)Universita degli Studi di Milano, Via Celoria 26, 20133, Milan, Italy.(8)CIBIO/InBio, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos, Rua Padre Armando Quintas, 7, 4485-661, Portugal; Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade do Porto, 4099-002 Porto, Portugal; BIOPOLIS Program in Genomics, Biodiversity and Land Planning, CIBIO, Campus de Vairão, 4485-661 Vairão, Portugal.(9)Department of Biosciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.(10)Estación Biológica de Doñana, CSIC, Calle Americo Vespucio 26, 41092, Sevillle, Spain.(11)Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo, PO BOX 1066 Blinderm, 0316 Oslo, Norway.(12)Primate Genetics Laborator, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077, Göttingen, Germany.(13)InBios - Conservation Genetics Lab, University of Liege, Chemin de la Vallée 4, 4000, Liege, Belgium.(14)Centre for Coastal Research, University of Agder, Gimlemoen 25j, 4630 Kristiansand, Norway; Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo, PO BOX 1066 Blinderm, 0316 Oslo, Norway.(15)Groningen Institute of Evolutionary Life Sciences, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh, 9747, AG, Groningen, The Netherlands; Center for Coastal Studies, 5 Holway Avenue, Provincetown, MA 02657, USA.(16)Marine and Freshwater Research Institute, Fornubúðir, 5,220, Hanafjörður, Iceland.(17)Estación Biológica de Doñana, CSIC, Calle Americo Vespucio 26, 41092, Sevillle, Spain; CIBER de Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Spain.(18)Department of Biology, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, Antwerp, Belgium.(19)The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Ave, New York, NY 10065, USA; Hunter College, City University of New York, NY, USA.(20)University of Goettingen, Institute for Microbiology and Genetics, Department of Applied Bioinformatics, Goettingen Center for Molecular Biosciences (GZMB), Campus Institute Data Science (CIDAS), Goldschmidtstr. 1, 37077, Goettingen, Germany.(21)Institute of Zoology, University of Cologne, Zülpicherstrasse 47b, D-50674, Cologne, Germany.(22)Evolutionary & Organismal Biology Research Center, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 310058, China; Villum Center for Biodiversity Genomics, Section for Ecology and Evolution, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen, Denmark; State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evolution, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, 650223, China.(23)University of Florence, Department of Biology, Via Madonna del Piano 6, Sesto Fiorentino, (FI) 50019, Italy.(24)University of Lausanne, Department of Ecology and Evolution, Le Biophore, UNIL-Sorge, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.(25)Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research (IZW), Alfred-Kowalke-Str 17, 10315 Berlin, Germany; Berlin Center for Genomics in Biodiversity Research (BeGenDiv), Koenigin-Luise-Str 6-8, 14195 Berlin, Germany.(26)Department of Ecology and Genetics, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D, 75246, Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: jacob.hoglund@ebc.uu.se.(27)Chair of Zoology, Yerevan State University 1 Alex Manoogian, Yerevan, 0025, Republic of Armenia Scientific Center of Zoology and Hydroecology, NAS, RA.(28)CNAG-CRG, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology (BIST) Baldiri i Reixac 4, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.(29)Department of Genetics, Microbiology and Statistics and IRBio, Universitat de Barcelona, Av. Diagonal 643, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.(30)Geneva Natural History Museum 1 route de Malagnou, 1208 Geneva, Switzerland; University of Geneva Department of Genetics & Evolution, University of Geneva, 4 Boulevard d'Yvoy, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.(31)CIBIO/InBIO, BIOPOLIS Program in Genomics, Biodiversity and Land Planning, University of Porto Campus of Vairão, 4485-661, Vila do Conde, Portugal; Dep Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Porto R Campo Alegre, s/n, 4169-007 Porto, Portugal; EBM, Estação Biológica de Mértola Praça Luís de Camões, Mértola, 7750-329, Mértola, Portugal.(32)cE3c- Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes, Azorean Biodiversity Group, CHANGE - Global Change and Sustainability Institute, and University of the Azores Rua Capitão João d´Ávila, Pico da Urze, 9700-042, Angra do Heroísmo, Portugal.(33)CIIMAR/CIMAR, Interdisciplinary Centre of Marine and Environmental Research, University of Porto Terminal de Cruzeiros do Porto de Leixões, Av. General Norton de Matos, s/n, 4450-208 Porto, Portugal; Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Porto Rua do Campo Alegre, s/n, 4169-007 Porto, Portugal.(34)Instituto de Productos Naturales y Agrobiología (IPNA-CSIC) S.C. La Laguna, Spain, 38206.(35)Institute of Microbiology of the Czech Academy of Sciences Videnska 1083, Praha 4, Czech Republic, 14220.(36)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology 46, via Borsari, Ferrara, Italy, 44121.(37)Centre for Molecular Biodiversity Research, Leibniz Institute for the Analysis of Biodiveristy Change, Museum Koenig Bonn Adenauerallee 127, 53113 Bonn, Germany.(38)California State Polytechnic University, Pomona 3801 W Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA, USA, 91767.(39)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics, Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany.(40)UMR5558, CNRS, Université Lyon 1, Université de Lyon Bât. Grégor Mendel, 43 bd du 11 novembre 1918, VILLEURBANNE, France 69622.(41)Alliance Bioiversity CIAT Europe - Montpellier Office, Bioversity International France, Parc Scientifique Agropolis II, 34397 Montpellier Cedex 5, | France; French Institute of Bioinformatics (IFB)-South Green Bioinformatics Platform, Bioversity, CIRAD, INRAE, IRD, F-34398 Montpellier, France.(42)University of Primorska, Faculty of Mathematics, Natural Sciences and Information Technologies Glagoljaška 8, 6000 Koper, Slovenia Environmental Protection College Trg mladosti 7, 3320 Velenje, Slovenia.(43)CIIMAR, Interdisciplinary Centre of Marine and Environmental Research, University of Porto Terminal de Cruzeiros do Porto de Leixões, Avenida General Norton de Matos, Matosinhos, Portugal, 4450-208.(44)Interdisciplinary Centre of Marine and Environmental Research, Avenida General Norton de Matos, S/N, Matosinhos, Portugal, 4450-208; Faculty of Sciences University of Porto Rua Campo Alegre s/n, Porto, Portugal 4169-007.(45)University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Department of Genetics, Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology Barrio Sarriena s/n, 48940, Leioa, (Spain).(46)Plant Science and Biodiversity Centre, Slovak Academy of Science Dúbravská cesta 9, 845 23, Bratislava.(47)University of Zurich, Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany 107 Zollikerstrasse, Zurich, Switzerland, 8008.(48)Arizona State University 1800 I (Eye) Street, NW, Washington, DC 20006.(49)University of Neuchatel 11, Emile-Argand, Neuchatel, Switzerland, CH-2000.(50)Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes (CE3C) Campus da Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa, C2 Building, Campo Grande, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal; BioISI- Biosystems and Integrative Sciences Institute Campus da Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa, Teclabs Building, Campo Grande, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal.(51)Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier (ISEM), CNRS, IRD, EPHE, Université de Montpellier Place Eugène Bataillon, 34095 Montpellier, France.(52)University of Namur URBE, Department of Biology, Université de Namur, Rue de Bruxelles 61, 5000 Namur, Belgium.(53)Department of Natural History, University Museum of Bergen, University of Bergen, P.O. Box 7800, 5020 Bergen.(54)CIBIO, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos, InBIO Laboratório Associado, Campus de Vairão, Universidade do Porto, Vairão, 4485-661, Portugal; Campus Agrário de Vairão, Rua Padre Armando Quintas N7, 4485-661 Vairão, Portugal; BIOPOLIS Program in Genomics, Biodiversity and Land Planning, CIBIO, Campus de Vairão, Universidade do Porto, Vairão, 4485-661, Portugal.(55)Regional Nature Park of the Trient Valley La Place 24, 1922 Salvan, Switzerland.(56)The Rockefeller University 1230 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA.(57)Institute of Evolutionary Biology (CSIC-Universitat Pompeu Fabra) 37-49 Passeig marítim de la Barceloneta, Barcelona, Spain, 08003.(58)Università degli Studi di Milano Via Celoria 10, 20133, Milano, Italy; Univ. Grenoble-Alpes F-38000, Grenoble, France.(59)Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB) C.P. 160/12, Avenue F.D. Roosevelt 50, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.(60)Barcelona Supercomputing Centre (BSC-CNS) Jordi Girona, 29. 08034, Barcelona, Spain; Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB) Carrer de Baldiri Reixac, 10, 08028 Barcelona, Spain; Catalan Institution for Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA) Passeig Lluís Companys 23 08010, Barcelona, Spain.(61)Ġ.F. Abela Junior College Department of Biology, Ġuzè Debono Square, Msida, Malta Centre of Molecular Medicine and Biobanking University of Malta, Msida, Malta.(62)Weill Cornell Medicine 1300 York Ave, New York, NY 10065, USA.(63)Center for Evolutionary Hologenomics, The GLOBE Institute, The University of Copenhagen 5A, Oester Farimagsgade, Copenhagen, Denmark, 1353; University Museum, NTNU 47B, Erling Skakkes gate, Trondheim, Norway.(64)Slovenian Forestry Institute Večna pot 2, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.(65)The University of Edinburgh, Institute of Evolutionary Biology, School of Biological Sciences Ash worth Laboratories, Charlotte Auerbach Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3FL, UK; Uppsala University, Department of Ecology and Genetics/Animal Ecology Norbyvägen 18D, SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden.(66)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement 911, ave Agropolis, Montpellier, France, 34394.(67)Leibniz Institute for the Analysis of Biodiversity Change (LIB) Martin-Luther-King-Platz 3, 20146 Hamburg, Germany.(68)The Arctic University Museum of Norway, UiT - The Arctic University of Norway P.O. Box 6050, Langnes, Tromsø, Norway, N-9037; Centre for Palaeogenetics Svante Arrhenius väg 20C, SE-10691 Stockholm, Sweden; Stockholm University, Department of Geological Sciences, SE-10691, Stockholm, Sweden.(69)Austrian Research Centre for Forests (BFW) 8, Seckendorff-Gudent Weg, Vienna, Austria, 1130.(70)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics Senckenberganlage 25, 60325 Frankfurt; Senckenberg Society for Nature Research Senckenberganlage 25, 60325 Frankfurt; Goethe-University, Faculty of Biosciences Max-von-Laue-Str. 9, 60438 Frankfurt.(71)University of Florence Department of Biology, University of Florence, Via Madonna del Piano 6, Sesto Fiorentino, (FI) 50019, Italy.(72)Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES), Dept. Of Biosciences, University of Oslo, NORWAY PO Box 1066 Blindern, NO-0316 Oslo, NORWAY.(73)Technical University in Zvolen, Faculty of Forestry, Department of Phytology 24, T.G. Masaryka, Zvolen, 960 01, Slovak Republic; DIANA - Carpathian Wildlife Research 47, Mládežnícka, Banská Bystrica, 974 04, Slovak Republic.(74)Institute of Functional Biology and Ecology, Department of Ecology, Univeristy of Warsaw, Faculty of Biology Ilii, Miecznikowa 1, 02-096 Warszawa, Poland.(75)Institute of Biotechnology, HiLIFE, University of Helsinki 1, Viikinkaari, Helsinki, Finland, 00790.(76)Center of Natural History (CeNak), Universität Hamburg Martin-Luther-King-Platz 3, 20146 Hamburg, Germany; Ministry of Science, Research, Equality and Districts, Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.(77)University of Aberdeen, Zoology Building, Tillydrone Ave, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK, AB24 2TZ.(78)Estación Biológica de Doñana; CSIC Calle Americo Vespucio 26, 41092, Seville, Spain.(79)Université de Lyon, Université Lyon 1, CNRS, Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive, UMR 5558 Bat. Mendel, 43 bd du 11 novembre 1918, 69622 Villeurbanne cedex, France.(80)Université Côte d'Azur, CNRS, INSERM, IRCAN 28 Avenue de Valombrose, 06107 NICE Cedex 2, France.(81)Hellenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR), Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and Aquaculture (IMBBC) Former U.S. Base of Gournes, P.O. Box 2214, 71003, Heraklion, Crete, Greece.(82)CNAG-CRG, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology (BIST) Baldiri i Reixac 4, 08028 Barcelona, Spain; Institute of Evolutionary Biology (UPF-CSIC), PRBB Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003 Catalan Institution of Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA) Passeig de Lluís Companys, 23, 08010, Barcelona, Spain.(83)Biology Centre of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Institute of Entomology Branišovská 1160/31, 37005 České Budějovice, Czech Republic.(84)University of Oslo 1, Sars' gate, Oslo, Norway, 0562.(85)Université Paris-Saclay Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, URGI, 78026, Versailles, France.(86)Genomics Institute, University of California Santa Cruz Santa Cruz, CA, 95060.(87)Tel Aviv University, School of Zoology, the Steinhardt Museum of Natural History 12 Klausner street, Tel Aviv, Israel 6997801.(88)CIBIO, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos, InBIO Laboratório Associado, Universidade do Porto 7, Rua Padre Armando Quintas, Vairão, Portugal, 4485-661; Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade do Porto s/n, Rua do Campo Alegre, Porto, Portugal, 4169-007; BIOPOLIS Program in Genomics, Biodiversity and Land Planning, CIBIO Campus de Vairão, 4485-661 Vairão, Portugal.(89)Centre for Taxonomy and Morphology, Koenig Museum, Leibniz Institute for Animal Biodiversity Adenauerallee 127, 53113 Bonn, Germany.(90)Leibniz Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB) 301, Müggelseedamm, Berlin, Germany, 12587; Institut für Biologie, Freie Universität Berlin 2-4, Königin-Luise-Str., Berlin, Germany, 12489.(91)Dipartimento di Agraria - Università degli Studi di Napoli Federico II 100, Via Università, Portici, Italy, I-80055; BAT Center - Interuniversity Center for Studies on Bioinspired Agro-Environmental Technology, University of Napoli Federico II 100, Via Università, Portici, Italy, I-80055.(92)University of Warsaw, Faculty of Biology, Institute of Functional Biology and Ecology, Department of Ecology Biological and Chemical Research Centre, 101 Zwirki i Wigury, Warszawa, Poland, 02-089.(93)Center of Natural History (CeNak), Universität Hamburg Martin-Luther-King-Platz 3, 20146 Hamburg, Germany.(94)Institut de Systématique, Evolution, Biodiversité (ISYEB), Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle, CNRS, Sorbonne Université, EPHE, Université des Antilles CP51, 57 rue Cuvier, 75005 Paris, France.(95)Complutense University of Madrid José Antonio Nováis, 12, Madrid, Spain, 28040.(96)Ruđer Bošković Institute 54, Bijenička Road, Zagreb, Croatia, HR-10000.(97)Institut Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia Evolutiva (ICBIBE), Universitat de Valencia Carrer del Catedrátic José Beltrán Martinez 2, 46980 Paterna, Spain.(98)Department of Biology-Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, Biology, Geography, West University of Timisoara 16A Pestalozzi St., Timisoara, Romania, 300115; Environmental Advanced Research Institute, West University of Timisoara Vasile Pârvan 4 Bd., Timisoara, Romania, 300223.(99)cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes Departamento de Biologia Animal, Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, P-1749-016 Lisboa.(100)Ruder Boskovic Institute Bijenička cesta 54, Zagreb 10000, Croatia Croatian Biospeleological Society Rooseveltov trg 6, Zagreb, Croatia, 10000.(101)ETH Zürich Ecosystems and Landscape Evolution, Institute of Terrestrial Ecosystems, Department of Environmental Systems Science, ETH Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland; Swiss Federal Institute for Forest Snow and Landscape Research WSL Unit of Land Change Science, Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research WSL, Birmensdorf, Switzerland.(102)Department of Biosciences, Biotechnologies and Biopharmaceutics, University of Bari "A. Moro" Campus "E. Quagliariello", voa Orabona, 4, 70126 Bari; Institute of Biomembranes, Bioenergetics and Molecular Biotechnologies, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche Campus "E. Quagliariello", voa Orabona, 4, 70126 Bari; Consorzio Interuniversitario Bioteconologie via Flavia, 23/1, 34148 Trieste.(103)Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Research Program, University of Helsinki, PO Box 56, 00014, University of Helsinki, FINLAND; Institute of Biotechnology (HiLIFE), University of Helsinki, PO Box 56, 00014, University of Helsinki, FINLAND.(104)Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales - CSIC C/ José Gutiérrez Abascal, 2, Madrid, 28028, Spain; Natural History Museum of London Cromwell Road, SW7 5BD, London, UK.(105)Naturhistorisches Museum Bern 15 Bernastrasse, Bern, Switzerland, 3005; Aquatic Ecology and Evolution, Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern 6 Balzerstrasse, Bern, Switzerland, 3012.(106)Dipartimento di Scienze e Politiche Ambientali, Università degli Studi di Milano Via Celoria 26, Milano, Italy, I-20133.(107)Department of Health, Life & Environmental Sciences - University of L'Aquila Via Vetoio snc, 67100 L'Aquila-Coppito, Italy.(108)Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern Baltzerstrasse 6, 3012 Bern, Switzerland; Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Science & Technology Seestrasse 79, 6047 Kastanienbaum, Switzerland.(109)Zweite Zoologische Abteilung, Naturhistorisches Museum Wien Burgring 7, 1010 Wien.(110)Molecular Plant Breeding, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, ETH Zurich Universitaetstrasse 2, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland.(111)Senckenberg Biodiversität und Klima Forschungszentrum: Frankfurt, DE, 25 Senckenberganlage, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, 60325.(112)Goethe University, Institute of Ecology, Evolution and Diversity Max-von-Laue-Str. 13, Frankfurt am Main, 60438, Germany; Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (SBiK-F) Senckenberganlage 25, Frankfurt am Main, 60325, Germany; LOEWE Translational Biodiversity Genomics Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, Frankfurt am Main, 60325, Germany.(113)Helmholtz Pioneer Campus & Helmholtz AI Ingolstädter Landstraße 1, 85764, München, Germany.(114)Department of Aquatic Resources, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences 2, Stångholmsvägen, Drottningholm, Sweden, 178 93; Chair of Aquaculture, Institute of Veterinary Medicine and Animal, Estonian Uiversity of Life Sciences 56A, Kreutzwaldi, Tartu, Estonia, 51006.(115)Conservation Biology Research Group, University of Malta Taq-Qroqq, Msida, MSD2080, MALTA.(116)Conservation Biology Research Group, University of Malta, Msida, MSD2080, Malta.(117)School of Biology, The University of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife, UK, Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics Wundtlaan 1, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.(118)Forest Ecology and Biogeochemical Fluxes Unit, Research and Innovation Centre-Fondazione Edmund Mach 1, via Edmund Mach, San Michele all'Adige, Italy, 38010.(119)Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales -CSIC Calle José Gutierrez Abascal 2, 28006, Madrid.(120)Department of Zoology, Stockholm University 18B, Svante Arrheniusväg, Stockholm, Sweden, S-10691.(121)Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Dept. of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Paleontology & Geobiology Richard-Wagner-Str. 10, Munich, Germany, 80333; Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, GeoBio-Center Richard-Wagner-Str. 10, Munich, Germany, 80333; SNSB -, Bavarian, State Collections for Palaeontology and Geology Richard-Wagner-Str. 10, Munich, Germany, 80333.(122)Queen Mary University of London Mile End Road, London, United Kingdom, E1 4NS Alan Turing Institute London, United Kingdom, NW1 2DB.(123)Department of Biology, University of Malta Biomedical Sciences Building, MSD2080, Msida, Malta; Centre for Molecular Medicine and Biobanking Biomedical Sciences Building, MSD2080, Msida, Malta.
Triacylglycerol (TAG) plays a significant role during plant stress - it maintains lipid homeostasis. Upon wounding plants accumulate TAG, likely as a storage form of fatty acids (FAs) that originate from damaged membranes. This study asked if this process depends on the two phytohormones jasmonoyl-isoleucine (JA-Ile) and abscisic acid (ABA), which are involved in wound signalling. To analyse regulation of wound-induced TAG accumulation, we used mutants deficient in JA-Ile, with reduced ABA and the myb96 mutant, which is deficient in an ABA-dependent transcription factor. The expression of genes involved in TAG biosynthesis, and TAG content after wounding were analysed via LC-MS and GC-FID, plastidial lipid content in all mentioned mutant lines was also determined. The localization of newly synthesized TAG was investigated using lipid droplet staining. TAG accumulation upon wounding was confirmed as well as the fact that the newly synthesized TAG are mostly composed of polyunsaturated fatty acids. Nevertheless, all tested mutant lines were able to accumulate TAG similar to the WT. We observed differences in reduction of plastidial lipids - in WT plants this was higher than in mutant lines. Newly synthesized TAGs were stored in lipid droplets at and around the wounded area. Our results show that TAG accumulation upon wounding is not dependent on JA-Ile or ABA. The newly synthesized TAG species are composed of unsaturated fatty acids of membrane origin, and most likely serves as a transient energy store.
Maternal engraftment is frequently present in X‑linked severe combined immunodeficiency (X‑SCID) patients caused by pathogenic mutations in IL2GR. However, the functional status of the engrafted cells remains unclear because of the difficulty in separately evaluating the function of the maternal and autologous cells. The present study reported an X‑SCID patient with a de novo c.677C>T (p.R226H) variant in exon 5 of IL2RG, exhibiting recurrent and persistent infections from 3‑months‑old. After the male patient suffering recurrent pneumonia and acute hematogenous disseminated tuberculosis when 13‑months‑old, single‑cell RNA sequencing was applied to characterize the transcriptome landscape of his bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMNCs). A novel bioinformatic analysis strategy was designed to discriminate maternal and autologous cells at single‑cell resolution. The maternal engrafted cells consisted primarily of T, NKT and NK cells and the patient presented with the coexistence of autologous cells of these cell types. When compared respectively with normal counterparts, both maternal and autologous T and NKT cells increased the transcription of some important cytokines (GZMB, PRF1 and NKG7) against infections, but decreased the expression of a number of key transcription factors (FOS, JUN, TCF7 and LEF1) related to lymphocyte activation, proliferation and differentiation. Notably, the expression of multiple inhibitory factors (LAG3, CTLA4 and HAVCR2) were substantially enhanced in the T and NKT cells of both origins. In conclusion, both maternal and autologous T and NKT cells exhibited exhaustion‑like dysfunction in this X‑SCID patient suffering recurrent and persistent infections.
Burn injuries are a leading cause of unintentional injury, associated with a dysfunctional immune response and an increased risk of infections. Despite this, little is known about the role of T cells in human burn injury. In this study, we compared the activation and function of conventional T cells and unconventional T cell subsets in skin tissue from acute burn (within 7 days from initial injury), late phase burn (beyond 7 days from initial injury), and non-burn patients. We compared T cell functionality by a combination of flow cytometry and a multi-omic single-cell approach with targeted transcriptomics and protein expression. We found a significantly lower proportion of CD8+ T cells in burn skin compared to non-burn skin, with CD4+ T cells making up the bulk of the T cell population. Both conventional and unconventional burn tissue T cells show significantly higher IFN-γ and TNF-α levels after stimulation than non-burn skin T cells. In sorted T cells, clustering showed that burn tissue had significantly higher expression of homing receptors CCR7, S1PR1, and SELL compared to non-burn skin. In unconventional T cells, including mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) and γδ T cells, we see significantly higher expression of cytotoxic molecules GZMB, PRF1, and GZMK. Multi-omics analysis of conventional T cells suggests a shift from tissue-resident T cells in non-burn tissue to a circulating T cell phenotype in burn tissue. In conclusion, by examining skin tissue from burn patients, our results suggest that T cells in burn tissue have a pro-inflammatory rather than a homeostatic tissue-resident phenotype, and that unconventional T cells have a higher cytotoxic capacity. Our findings have the potential to inform the development of novel treatment strategies for burns.
OBJECTIVES: Anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5-positive dermatomyositis (MDA5+DM) is an autoimmune disease frequently accompanied by rapidly progressive interstitial lung disease (RP-ILD) with high mortality. T cells are implicated in the pathogenesis of MDA5+DM and this study aims to measure the frequency and clinical relevance of cytotoxic CD4 and CD8 T cells in this disease.METHODS: T cells expressing Perforin, Granzyme B (GZMB) and Granzyme K (GZMK) were analyzed by flow cytometry from peripheral blood of 19 patients with active MDA5+DM and 19 age- and sex-matched healthy donors (HDs). The frequency of CD4 and CD8 T cells and the cytotoxic subsets were compared between patients with MDA5+DM and HDs. Correlations within T cell subsets and between T cell subsets and clinical parameters of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), ferritin, neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and Myositis Intention-to-Treat Index (MITAX) were evaluated.RESULTS: Compared with HDs, patients with active MDA5+DM significantly had increased frequency of CD4 T cells, and reduced frequency of GZMK+GZMB- CD8 T cells. Furthermore, the frequency of GZMK+GZMB- CD8 T cells positively correlated with serum ferritin levels in active MDA5+DM patients. Notably, the patients in the Dead group of MDA5+DM had a significant higher frequency of GZMK+GZMB- CD4 and CD8 T cells.CONCLUSION: Substantial changes of cytotoxic T cell subsets are observed in active MDA5+DM patients. In addition, a high frequency of GZMK+GZMB- CD4 and CD8 T cells is associated with unfavorable prognosis in MDA5+DM. More studies are warranted to further explore the roles of cytotoxic T cells in MDA5+DM.
BACKGROUND: Sézary Syndrome (SS) is an aggressive leukemic variant of cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL). In SS patients, malignant T cells are circulating through the blood and cause erythroderma.OBJECTIVE: To compare the transcriptome of single cells in blood and skin samples from a patient with advanced SS.METHODS: We utilized combined single cell RNA and T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing (scRNA-seq).RESULTS: We scrutinized the malignant T cells in blood and skin in an unbiased manner without pre-sorting of cells. We observed different phenotypes of the same monoclonal malignant T-cell population, confirmed by TCR sequencing and inferred copy number variation analysis. Malignant T cells present in the circulating blood expressed genes resembling central memory T cells such as CCR7, IL7R and CD27. In the skin, we detected two major malignant T-cell populations: One subpopulation was closely related to the malignant T cells from the blood, while the other subpopulation expressed genes reminiscent of skin resident effector memory T cells including GZMB and NKG7. Pseudotime analysis indicated crucial transcriptomic changes in the transition of malignant T cells between blood and skin. These changes included the differential regulation of TXNIP, a putative tumor suppressor in CTCL, and the adaptation to the hypoxic conditions in the skin. Tumor cell proliferation in the skin was supported by stimulating interactions between myeloid cells and malignant T cells.CONCLUSIONS: Using scRNA-seq we detected a high degree of functional heterogeneity within the malignant T-cell population in SS and highlighted crucial differences between SS cells in blood and skin.
The T-box transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin regulate type 1 immune responses in innate and adaptive lymphocytes. T-bet is widely expressed in the immune system but was initially identified as the lineage-specifying transcription factor of Th1 CD4+ T cells, where it governs expression of the signature cytokine IFN- γ and represses alternative cell fates like Th2 and Th17. T-bet's paralog Eomes is less abundantly expressed and Eomes+ CD4+ T cells are mostly found in the context of persistent antigen exposure, like bone marrow transplantation, chronic infection or inflammation as well as malignant disorders. However, it has remained unresolved whether Eomes executes similar transcriptional activities as T-bet in CD4+ T cells. Here we use a novel genetic approach to show that Eomes expression in CD4+ T cells drives a distinct transcriptional program that shows only partial overlap with T-bet. We found that Eomes is sufficient to induce the expression of the immunoregulatory cytokine IL-10 and, together with T-bet, promotes a cytotoxic effector profile, including Prf1, Gzmb, Gzmk, Nkg7 and Ccl5, while repressing alternative cell fates. Our results demonstrate that Eomes+ CD4+ T cells, which are often found in the context of chronic antigen stimulation, are likely to be a unique CD4+ T cell subset that limits inflammation and immunopathology as well as eliminates antigen-presenting and malignant cells.
Understanding the most relevant hematological/biochemical characteristics, pre-existing health conditions and complications in survivors and non-survivor will aid in predicting COVID-19 patient mortality, as well as intensive care unit (ICU) referral and death. A literature review was conducted for COVID-19 mortality in PubMed, Scopus, and various preprint servers (bioRxiv, medRxiv and SSRN), with 97 observational studies and preprints, consisting of survivor and non-survivor sub-populations. This meta/network analysis comprised 19,014 COVID-19 patients, consisting of 14,359 survivors and 4655 non-survivors. Meta and network analyses were performed using META-MAR V2.7.0 and PAST software. The study revealed that non-survivors of COVID-19 had elevated levels of gamma-glutamyl transferase and creatinine, as well as a higher number of neutrophils. Non-survivors had fewer lymphocytes and platelets, as well as lower hemoglobin and albumin concentrations. Age, hypertension, and cerebrovascular disease were shown to be the most influential risk factors among non-survivors. The most common complication among non-survivors was heart failure, followed by septic shock and respiratory failure. Platelet counts, creatinine, aspartate aminotransferase, albumin, and blood urea nitrogen levels were all linked to ICU admission. Hemoglobin levels preferred non-ICU patients. Lower levels of hemoglobin, lymphocytes, and albumin were associated with increased mortality in ICU patients. This meta-analysis showed that inexpensive and fast biochemical and hematological tests, as well as pre-existing conditions and complications, can be used to estimate the risk of mortality in COVID-19 patients.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a complex intestinal inflammation with an increasing risk of colitis-associated colorectal cancer (CAC). However, the pathogenesis is still unclear between active UC and inactive UC. Recently, it has been reported that pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) are closely associated with inflammatory disease activity. Nevertheless, the specific roles of PRGs in the progression and treatment of UC and CAC remain unclear. In this study, we identified 30 differentially expressed PRGs based on the immune landscape of active and inactive UC samples. Meanwhile, weighted gene coexpression network analysis was applied to explore important genes associated with active UC. By intersecting with the differentially expressed PRGs, CASP5, GBP1, GZMB, IL1B, and IRF1 were selected as key PRGs to construct a pyroptosis-related signature (PR-signature). Then, logistic regression analysis was performed to validate the PR-signature and establish a pyroptosis-related score (PR-Score). We demonstrated that PR-Score had a powerful ability to distinguish active UC from inactive UC in multiple datasets. Besides, PR-Score was positively correlated with immune cell infiltration and inflammatory microenvironment in UC. Lower PR-Score was associated with a better response to anti-TNF therapy for patients with UC. Additionally, high-PR-Score was found to suppress CAC and improve the survival outcomes of patients with colorectal cancer. Finally, the levels of the PR-signature genes were validated both in vitro and in vivo. These findings can improve our understanding of PRGs in UC and provide new markers for predicting the occurrence of active UC or CAC and the treatment of UC.
BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer (OV) is a severe and common gynecological disease. Ferroptosis can regulate the progression and invasion of tumors. The immune system is a decisive factor in cancer. The present study aimed to use gene expression data to establish an immunity and ferroptosis-related risk score model as a prognostic biomarker to predict clinical outcomes and the immune microenvironment of OV.METHODS: Common gene expression data were searched from the Gene Expression Omnibus and The Cancer Genome Atlas databases. Immunity-related genes and ferroptosis-related genes were searched and downloaded from the ImmPort and FerrDb databases, followed by the analysis of the overall survival of patients with OV and the identification of genes. Subsequently, the status of the infiltration of immune cells and the association between immune checkpoints and risk score were assessed.RESULTS: A total of 10 prognostic genes (C5AR1, GZMB, IGF2R, ISG20, PPP3CA, STAT1, TRIM27, TSHR, RB1, and EGFR) were included in the immunity and ferroptosis-related risk score model. The high-risk group had a higher infiltration of immune cells. The risk score, an independent prognostic feature of OV was negatively associated with each immune checkpoint. The risk score may thus help to predict the response to immunotherapy.CONCLUSIONS: The immunity and ferroptosis-related risk score model is an independent prognostic factor for OV. The established risk score may help to predict the response of patients to immunotherapy.
Verticillium transcription activator of adhesion 3 (Vta3) is required for plant root colonization and pathogenicity of the soil-borne vascular fungus Verticillium dahliae. RNA sequencing identified Vta3-dependent genetic networks required for growth in tomato xylem sap. Vta3 affects the expression of more than 1,000 transcripts, including candidates with predicted functions in virulence and morphogenesis such as Egh16-like virulence factor 1 (Elv1) and Master transcription factor 1 (Mtf1). The genes encoding Elv1 and Mtf1 were deleted and their functions in V. dahliae growth and virulence on tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) plants were investigated using genetics, plant infection experiments, gene expression studies and phytohormone analyses. Vta3 contributes to virulence by promoting ELV1 expression, which is dispensable for vegetative growth and conidiation. Vta3 decreases disease symptoms mediated by Mtf1 in advanced stages of tomato plant colonization, while Mtf1 induces the expression of fungal effector genes and tomato pathogenesis-related protein genes. The levels of pipecolic and salicylic acids functioning in tomato defense signaling against (hemi-) biotrophic pathogens depend on the presence of MTF1, which promotes the formation of resting structures at the end of the infection cycle. In summary, the presence of VTA3 alters gene expression of virulence factors and tames the Mtf1 genetic subnetwork for late stages of plant disease progression and subsequent survival of the fungus in the soil.
Non-targeted metabolome approaches aim to detect metabolite markers related to stress, disease, developmental or genetic perturbation. In the later context, it is also a powerful means for functional gene annotation. A prerequisite for non-targeted metabolome analyses are methods for comprehensive metabolite extraction. We present three extraction protocols for a highly efficient extraction of metabolites from plant material with a very broad metabolite coverage. The presented metabolite fingerprinting workflow is based on liquid chromatography high resolution accurate mass spectrometry (LC-HRAM-MS), which provides suitable separation of the complex sample matrix for the analysis of compounds of different polarity by positive and negative electrospray ionization and mass spectrometry. The resulting data sets are then analyzed with the software suite MarVis and the web-based interface MetaboAnalyst. MarVis offers a straightforward workflow for statistical analysis, data merging as well as visualization of multivariate data, while MetaboAnalyst is used in our hands as complementary software for statistics, correlation networks and figure generation. Finally, MarVis provides access to species-specific metabolite and pathway data bases like KEGG and BioCyc and to custom data bases tailored by the user to connect the identified markers or features with metabolites. In addition, identified marker candidates can be interactively visualized and inspected in metabolic pathway maps by KEGG pathways for a more detailed functional annotation and confirmed by mass spectrometry fragmentation experiments or coelution with authentic standards. Together this workflow is a valuable toolbox to identify novel metabolites, metabolic steps or regulatory principles and pathways.
Over the past decade, the number of fully sequenced genomes has increased at an awe-inspiring pace. Similarly, the quality and scope of tools for the prediction of both protein structure and function has seen vast improvements. However, to pinpoint the exact function of a protein, for instance the exact reaction catalyzed by an enzyme, experimental evidence is crucial. At the same time, this step is the main bottleneck when generating a conclusive model for the function of an enzyme and to interpret its function in a physiological context. Hence, a comprehensive experimental strategy for functional annotation of enzymes that is as efficient as possible is required. Ex vivo metabolomics is a powerful non-targeted approach that overcomes several of the challenges inherent to in vitro characterization of enzymes with unknown functions. By incubating the recombinant enzyme of interest in a quasi-native metabolite extract from its tissue of origin under specific environmental and developmental conditions, the complete native substrate range can be tested in a single assay. This unlocks compounds that are commercially unavailable or otherwise difficult to procure. Coupled with non-targeted metabolomics analysis, ex vivo has the capability to test for and identify even unexpected substrates and assign the respective products of the enzymatic reaction.
BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence has highlighted the biological significance of pyroptosis in tumor tumorigenesis and progression. Nonetheless, the potential roles of pyroptosis in tumor immune microenvironment and target therapy of ovarian cancer (OC) remain unknown.METHODS: In this study, with a series of bioinformatic and machine learning approaches, we comprehensively evaluated genetic alterations and transcriptome profiles of pyroptosis-associated genes (PYAGs) with TCGA-OV datasets. Consensus molecular clustering was performed to determine pyroptosis-associated clusters (PACs) and gene clusters in OC. Subsequently, component analysis algorithm (PCA) was employed to construct Pyrsig score and a highly accurate nomogram was established to evaluate its efficacy. Meanwhile, we systematically performed association analysis for these groups with prognosis, clinical features, TME cell-infiltrating characteristics, drug response and immunotherapeutic efficacy. Immunohistochemistry was conducted to verify molecular expression with clinical samples.RESULTS: The somatic mutations and copy number variation (CNV) of 51 PYRGs in OC samples were clarified. Two distinct PACs (PAC1/2) and three gene clusters (A/B/C) were identified based on 1332 OC samples, PAC1 and gene cluster A were significantly associated with favorable overall survival (OS), clinicopathological features and TME cell-infiltrating characteristics. Subsequently, Pyrsig score was successfully established to demonstrate the prognostic value and immune characteristics of pyroptosis in OC, low Pyrsig score, characterized by activated immune cell infiltration, indicated prolonged OS, increased sensitivity of some chemotherapeutic drugs and enhanced efficacy of anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy, Consequently, a nomogram was successfully established to improve the clinical applicability and stability of Pyrsig score. With clinical OC samples, GSDMD and GZMB proteins were validated highly expressed in OC and associated with immune infiltration and Pyrsig score, GZMB and CD8 proteins were regarded as independent prognostic factors of OC.CONCLUSION: This work revealed pyroptosis played a non-negligible role in prognosis value, clinicopathological characteristics and tumor immune infiltration microenvironment in OC, which provided novel insights into identifying and characterizing landscape of tumor immune microenvironment, thereby guiding more effective prognostic evaluation and tailored immunotherapy strategies of OC.
Gout is a chronic disease caused by monosodium urate crystal deposition. Previous studies have focused on the resident macrophage, infiltrating monocyte, and neutrophil responses to monosodium urate crystal, yet the mechanisms of the potential involvement of other immune cells remain largely unknown. In this study, we enrolled seven gout patients and five age-matched healthy individuals and applied single-cell mass cytometry to study the distribution of immune cell subsets in peripheral blood. To our knowledge, our study reveals the immune cell profiles of gout at different stages for the first time. We identified many immune cell subsets that are dysregulated in gout and promote gouty inflammation, especially those highly expressing CCR4 and OX40 (TNFR superfamily member 4), including CCR4+OX40+ monocytes, CCR4+OX40+CD56high NK cells, CCR4+OX40+CD4+ NK T cells, and CCR4+CD38+CD4+ naïve T cells. Notably, the plasma levels of CCL17 and CCL22, measured by ELISA, increased in the acute phase of gout and declined in the interval. We also found a clue that Th2-type immune responses may participate in gout pathology. Moreover, the subset of granzyme B+ (GZMB+) CD38+ NK cells is positively correlated with serum urea acid level, and another two γδT subsets, GZMB+CD161+ γδT cells and GZMB+CCR5+ γδT cells, are negatively correlated with erythrocyte sedimentation rate. In sum, gouty arthritis is not a disease simply mediated by macrophages; multiple types of immune cell may be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. Future research needs to shift attention to other immune cell subsets, such as NK cells and T cells, which will facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets.
Plant oxylipins are a class of lipid-derived signaling molecules being involved in the regulation of various biotic and abiotic stress responses. A major class of oxylipins are the circular derivatives to which 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid (OPDA) and its metabolite jasmonic acid (JA) belong. While OPDA and its shorter chain homologue dinor-OPDA (dnOPDA) seem to be ubiquitously found in land plants ranging from bryophytes to angiosperms, the occurrence of JA and its derivatives is still under discussion. The bryophyte Physcomitrium patens has received increased scientific interest as a non-vascular plant model organism over the last decade. Therefore, we followed the metabolism upon wounding by metabolite fingerprinting with the aim to identify jasmonates as well as novel oxylipins in P. patens. A non-targeted metabolomics approach was used to reconstruct the metabolic pathways for the synthesis of oxylipins, derived from roughanic, linoleic, α-linolenic, and arachidonic acid in wild type, the oxylipin-deficient mutants of Ppaos1 and Ppaos2, the mutants of Ppdes being deficient in all fatty acids harboring a Δ6-double bond and the C20-fatty acid-deficient mutants of Ppelo. Beside of OPDA, iso-OPDA, dnOPDA, and iso-dnOPDA, three additional C18-compounds and a metabolite being isobaric to JA were identified to accumulate after wounding. These findings can now serve as foundation for future research in determining, which compound(s) will serve as native ligand(s) for the oxylipin-receptor COI1 in P. patens.
Peripheral blood immune cells have different molecular characteristics at different stages of the whole lifespan. Knowledge of circulating immune cell types and states from children to centenarians remains incomplete. We profiled peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of multiple age groups with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), involving the age ranges of 1-12 (G1), 20-30(G2), 30-60(G3), 60-80(G4), and >110 years (G5). The proportion and states of myeloid cells change significantly from G1 to G2. We identified a novel CD8+CCR7+GZMB+ cytotoxic T cell subtype specific in G1, expressing naive and cytotoxic genes, and validated by flow cytometry. CD8+ T cells showed significant changes in the early stage (G1 to G2), while CD4+ T cells changed in the late stage (G4 to G5). Moreover, the intercellular crosstalk among PBMCs in G1 is very dynamic. Susceptibility genes for a variety of autoimmune diseases (AIDs) have different cell-specific expression localization, and the expression of susceptibility genes for AIDs changes with age. Notably, the CD3+ undefined T cells clearly expressed susceptibility genes for multiple AIDs, especially in G3. ETS1 and FLI1, susceptibility genes associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, were differentially expressed in CD4+ and CD8+ effector cells in G1 and G3. These results provided a valuable basis for future research on the unique immune system of the whole lifespan and AIDs.
Despite advancements in understanding the pathophysiology of Multiple Myeloma (MM), the cause of rapid progressing disease in a subset of patients is still unclear. MM's progression is facilitated by complex interactions with the surrounding bone marrow (BM) cells, forming a microenvironment that supports tumor growth and drug resistance. Understanding the immune microenvironment is key to identifying factors that promote rapid progression of MM. To accomplish this, we performed a multi-center single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) study on 102,207 cells from 48 CD138- BM samples collected at the time of disease diagnosis from 18 patients with either rapid progressing (progression-free survival (PFS) < 18 months) or non-progressing (PFS > 4 years) disease. Comparative analysis of data from three centers demonstrated similar transcriptome profiles and cell type distributions, indicating subtle technical variation in scRNA-seq, opening avenues for an expanded multicenter trial. Rapid progressors depicted significantly higher enrichment of GZMK+ and TIGIT+ exhausted CD8+ T-cells (P = 0.022) along with decreased expression of cytolytic markers (PRF1, GZMB, GNLY). We also observed a significantly higher enrichment of M2 tolerogenic macrophages in rapid progressors and activation of pro-proliferative signaling pathways, such as BAFF, CCL, and IL16. On the other hand, non-progressive patients depicted higher enrichment for immature B Cells (i.e., Pre/Pro B cells), with elevated expression for markers of B cell development (IGLL1, SOX4, DNTT). This multi-center study identifies the enrichment of various pro-tumorigenic cell populations and pathways in those with rapid progressing disease and further validates the robustness of scRNA-seq data generated at different study centers.
BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that affects individuals of all ages. The basic pathological manifestations are synovial inflammation, pannus formation, and erosion of articular cartilage, bone destruction will eventually lead to joint deformities and loss of function. However, the specific molecular mechanisms of synovitis tissue in RA are still unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to screen and explore the potential hub genes and immune cell infiltration in RA.METHODS: Three microarray datasets (GSE12021, GSE55457, and GSE55235), from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, have been analyzed to explore the potential hub genes and immune cell infiltration in RA. First, the LIMMA package was used to screen the differentially expression genes (DEGs) after removing the batch effect. Then the clusterProfiler package was used to perform functional enrichment analyses. Second, through weighted coexpression network analysis (WGCNA), the key module was identified in the coexpression network of the gene set. Third, the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed through STRING website and the module analysis was performed using Cytoscape software. Fourth, the CIBERSORT and ssGSEA algorithm were used to analyze the immune status of RA and healthy synovial tissue, and the associations between immune cell infiltration and RA-related diagnostic biomarkers were evaluated. Fifth, we used the quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to validate the expression levels of the hub genes, and ROC curve analysis of hub genes for discriminating between RA and healthy tissue. Finally, the gene-drug interaction network was constructed using DrugCentral database, and identification of drug molecules based on hub genes using the Drug Signature Database (DSigDB) by Enrichr.RESULTS: A total of 679 DEGs were identified, containing 270 downregulated genes and 409 upregulated genes. DEGs were primarily enriched in immune response and chemokine signaling pathways, according to functional enrichment analysis of DEGs. WGCNA explored the co-expression network of the gene set and identified key modules, the blue module was selected as the key module associated with RA. Seven hub genes are identified when PPI network and WGCNA core modules are intersected. Immune infiltration analysis using CIBERSORT and ssGSEA algorithms revealed that multiple types of immune infiltration were found to be upregulated in RA tissue compared to normal tissue. Furthermore, the levels of 7 hub genes were closely related to the relative proportions of multiple immune cells in RA. The results of the qRT-PCR demonstrated that the relative expression levels of 6 hub genes (CD27, LCK, CD2, GZMB, IL7R, and IL2RG) were up-regulated in RA synovial tissue, compared with normal tissue. Simultaneously, ROC curves indicated that the above 6 hub genes had strong biomarker potential for RA (AUC >0.8).CONCLUSIONS: Through bioinformatics analysis and qRT-PCR experiment, our study ultimately discovered 6 hub genes (CD27, LCK, CD2, GZMB, IL7R, and IL2RG) that closely related to RA. These findings may provide valuable direction for future RA clinical diagnosis, treatment, and associated research.
INTRODUCTION: Improving outcomes for oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients has been hindered by a lack of effective predictive animal models. Spontaneously occurring canine OSCC could help fill this gap. The objective of this study was to characterize the immune landscape of canine OSCC to advance understanding of how dogs could serve as a surrogate for human OSCC.METHODS/RESULTS: Canine OSCC contains a heterogenous tumor immune microenvironment. CD3+ T cells were the predominant tumor infiltrating immune cell population; however, there was a wide range CD3+ T cell density across samples. The most common CD3+ T cell micro-anatomical distribution was defined as "pre-existing immunity", but the remaining 20% of tumors were characterized as "immunologically ignorant" or "excluded infiltrates" patterns. When compared to normal oral mucosa, the tumor gene expression pattern suggests that canine OSCC microenvironment is highly inflamed and characterized by the presence of an anti-tumor immune response dominated by cytotoxic\effector T cells and NK cells (CD8a, GZMA, OX40, and HLA-A); however, overexpression of genes associated with effector T cell exhaustion and microenvironmental immunosuppression was also identified (PD-1, LAG3, CXCL2). Correlations between CD3+ T cell density and immune gene expression revealed key genes associated with cytotoxic anti-tumor T cell responses (GZMA, GZMB, PRF1), co-stimulation of T cells (CD27, CD28, ICOS), and other immune processes, including Type I IFN response (TNF, TNFSF10), and T cell exhaustion (CTLA4, PD-1). CD3+ T cell density in canine OSCC was significantly correlated with a cytolytic activity score (mean PRF1 and GZMA expression), suggestive of active effector CD8 T cell function. CD204+ macrophages were the second most abundant tumor infiltrating immune cell, and when comparing to normal oral mucosa, two differently expressed genes linked to tumor associated macrophages and myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) were identified: CXCL2, CD70. Overexpression of CXCL2 was also identified in canine OSCC "T cell-high" tumors compared to "T cell-low" tumors.DISCUSSION: This study identified actionable immunotherapy targets which could inform future comparative oncology trials in canine OSCC: CTLA-4, PD-1, CXCL2. These data provide a good first step towards utilizing spontaneous canine OSCC as a comparative model for human OSCC radiation and immuno-oncology research.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection causes severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in a small proportion of infected individuals. The immune system plays an important role in the defense against SARS-CoV-2, but our understanding of the cellular immune parameters that contribute to severe COVID-19 disease is incomplete. Here, we show that populations of effector γδ T cells are associated with COVID-19 in unvaccinated patients with acute disease. We found that circulating CD27neg CD45RA+ CX3CR1+ Vδ1effector cells expressing Granzymes (Gzms) were enriched in COVID-19 patients with acute disease. Moreover, higher frequencies of GzmB+ Vδ2+ T cells were observed in acute COVID-19 patients. SARS-CoV-2 infection did not alter the γδ T cell receptor repertoire of either Vδ1+ or Vδ2+ subsets. Our work demonstrates an association between effector populations of γδ T cells and acute COVID-19 in unvaccinated individuals.
Mitochondria are often considered as the power stations of the cell, playing critical roles in various biological processes such as cellular respiration, photosynthesis, stress responses, and programmed cell death. To maintain the structural and functional integrities of mitochondria, it is crucial to achieve a defined membrane lipid composition between different lipid classes wherein specific proportions of individual lipid species are present. Although mitochondria are capable of self-synthesizing a few lipid classes, many phospholipids are synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum and transferred to mitochondria via membrane contact sites, as mitochondria are excluded from the vesicular transportation pathway. However, knowledge on the capability of lipid biosynthesis in mitochondria and the precise mechanism of maintaining the homeostasis of mitochondrial lipids is still scarce. Here we describe the lipidome of mitochondria isolated from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) leaves, including the molecular species of glycerolipids, sphingolipids, and sterols, to depict the lipid landscape of mitochondrial membranes. In addition, we define proteins involved in lipid metabolism by proteomic analysis and compare our data with mitochondria from cell cultures since they still serve as model systems. Proteins putatively localized to the membrane contact sites are proposed based on the proteomic results and online databases. Collectively, our results suggest that leaf mitochondria are capable-with the assistance of membrane contact site-localized proteins-of generating several lipid classes including phosphatidylethanolamines, cardiolipins, diacylgalactosylglycerols, and free sterols. We anticipate our work to be a foundation to further investigate the functional roles of lipids and their involvement in biochemical reactions in plant mitochondria.
The nitric oxide synthase interacting protein (NOSIP), an E3-ubiquitin ligase, is involved in various processes like neuronal development, craniofacial development, granulopoiesis, mitogenic signaling, apoptosis, and cell proliferation. The best-characterized function of NOSIP is the regulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase activity by translocating the membrane-bound enzyme to the cytoskeleton, specifically in the G2 phase of the cell cycle. For this, NOSIP itself has to be translocated from its prominent localization, the nucleus, to the cytoplasm. Nuclear import of NOSIP was suggested to be mediated by the canonical transport receptors importin α/β. Recently, we found NOSIP in a proteomic screen as a potential importin 13 cargo. Here, we describe the nuclear shuttling characteristics of NOSIP in living cells and in vitro and show that it does not interact directly with importin α. Instead, it formed stable complexes with several importins (-β, -7, -β/7, -13, and transportin 1) and was also imported into the nucleus in digitonin-permeabilized cells by these factors. In living HeLa cells, transportin 1 seems to be the major nuclear import receptor for NOSIP. A detailed analysis of the NOSIP-transportin 1 interaction revealed a high affinity and an unusual binding mode, involving the N-terminal half of transportin 1. In contrast to nuclear import, nuclear export of NOSIP seems to occur mostly by passive diffusion. Thus, our results uncover additional layers in the larger process of endothelial nitric oxide synthase regulation.
Among many factors known to alter the outcomes of T cell receptor (TCR)-induced proximal signaling, the role of human germline variants in dictating the individuality of the anti-tumor CD8 T cell response has remained challenging to address. Here, we describe a convenient strategy for molecular and functional characterization of phosphotyrosine-altering non-synonymous single nucleotide variations (pTyr-SNVs) that directly impact TCR-induced proximal phosphotyrosine motif-based signaling pathways. We devise an experimental co-cultivation set-up comprising a C57BL/6 mouse-derived metastatic melanoma cell line engineered to constitutively present ovalbumin (OVA) antigens and retrovirally engineered syngeneic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) Class I restricted OVA TCR-transgenic CD8 T cells (OT-I). Using the synthetic version of pTyr-SNV rs1178800678-G/T-encoding integrin alpha 4 (ITGA4) p.S1027I variant as a prototype, we show that under identical TCR stimulation conditions, genetically determined membrane-proximal immunoreceptor tyrosin activation motif (ITAM) results in increased tyrosine phosphorylation of 70 kDa zeta-chain-associated protein (ZAP70) and the levels of cytotoxic effector molecule granzyme B (GZMB), which in turn result in enhanced cytotoxic activity against metastatic melanoma cell line. This strategy paves the way for rapid molecular and functional characterization of anti-tumor immune response-linked germline pTyr-SNVs so as to improve our understanding of the genetic basis of individual-to-individual differences in anti-tumor CD8 T cell response.
INTRODUCTION: In-depth analysis of the rambling genes of atopic dermatitis may help to identify the pathologic mechanism of this disease. However, this has seldom been performed.AIM: Using bioinformatics approaches, we analysed 3 gene expression profiles in the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database, identified the differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and found out the overlapping DEGs (common DEGs, cDEGs) in the above 3 profiles.MATERIAL AND METHODS: We identified 91 upregulated cDEGs, which were then arranged into a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway and Gene Ontology (GO) term enrichment analyses were performed to explore the functional roles of these genes.RESULTS: GO analyses revealed these DEGs to be significantly enriched in biological processes including immune system process, immune response, defence response, leukocyte activation, and response to the biotic stimulus. These DEGs were also enriched in the KEGG pathway, including influenza A, amoebiasis, primary immunodeficiency, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and IL-17 signalling pathway. PPI analysis showed that 9 genes (PTPRC-CTLA4-CD274-CD1C-IL7R-GZMB-CCL5-CD83, and CCL22) were probably the novel hub genes of atopic dermatitis.CONCLUSIONS: Together, the findings of these bioinformatics analyses thus identified key hub genes associated with AD development.
Understanding the T-cell responses involved in inhibiting COVID-19 severity is crucial for developing new therapeutic and vaccine strategies. Here, we characterized SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific CD8+ T cells in vaccinees longitudinally. The BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine can induce spike-specific CD8+ T cells cross-reacting to BA.1, whereas the T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire usages decreased with time. Furthermore the mRNA vaccine induced spike-specific CD8+ T cells subpopulation expressing Granzyme A (GZMA), Granzyme B (GZMB) and Perforin simultaneously in healthy donors at 4 weeks after the second vaccination. The induced subpopulation was not maintained at 12 weeks after the second vaccination. Incorporating factors that efficiently induce CD8+ T cells with highly cytotoxic activity could improve future vaccine efficacy against such variants.
BACKGROUND: CAVD is a common cardiovascular disease, but currently there is no drug treatment. Therefore, it is urgent to find new and effective drug therapeutic targets. Recent evidence has shown that the infiltration of M1 macrophages increased in the calcified aortic valve tissues, but the mechanism has not been fully elucidated. The purpose of this study was to explore the shared gene characteristics and molecular mechanisms of macrophages M1 polarization in CAVD, in order to provide a theoretical basis for new drugs of CAVD.METHODS: The mRNA datasets of CAVD and M1 polarization were downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. R language, String, and Cytoscape were used to analyze the functions and pathways of DEGs and feature genes. Immunohistochemical staining and Western Blot were performed to verify the selected hub genes.RESULTS: CCR7 and GZMB were two genes appeared together in hub genes of M1-polarized and CAVD datasets that might be involved in the process of CAVD and macrophages M1 polarization. CCR7 and CD86 were significantly increased, while CD163 was significantly decreased in the calcified aortic valve tissues. The infiltration of M1 macrophages was increased, on the contrary, the infiltration of M2 macrophages was decreased in the calcified aortic valve tissues.CONCLUSION: This study reveals the shared gene characteristics and molecular mechanisms of CAVD and macrophages M1 polarization. The hub genes and pathways we found may provide new ideas for the mechanisms underlying the occurrence of M1 polarization during CAVD process.
BACKGROUND: DEP domain containing 1 (DEPDC1) gene is upregulated in several malignancies and contributes to tumorigenesis. Although the role of DEPDC1 in tumor is becoming increasingly popular, the function of DEPDC1 in pan-cancer still needs to be systematically elucidated.METHODS: Data were downloaded from Genotype-Tissue Expression Data (GTEx), The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) TIMER2.0, TISIDB, STRING, and CancerSEA databases and analyzed to determine the functionality of the DEPDC1. The results were visualized using tools provided by the databases and the R language.RESULTS: The results showed that DEPDC1 was significantly upregulated in 29 of the 33 human cancers analyzed. In addition, there were significant differences in DEPDC1 expression among cancer immune and molecular subtypes. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that DEPDC1 was mainly involved in the cell cycle, and CancerSEA analysis showed that DEPDC1 promoted cell cycle, DNA repair, DNA damage, and proliferation in pan-cancer. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis showed high predictive accuracy for pan-cancer. DEPDC1 expression was positively correlated with activated CD4+ T helper 2 cells and common lymphoid progenitor cells, and negatively correlated with natural killer (NK) T cells, CD4+ central memory T cells, and CD4+ effector memory T cells. Furthermore, DEPDC1 was significantly positively correlated with T cell exhaustion marker genes, such as CD274, transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (TGFBR1), kinase insert domain receptor (KDR), programmed cell death 1 ligand 2 (PDCD1LG2), granzyme B (GZMB), and granulysin (LAG2). Additionally, DEPDC1 was associated with overall survival (OS), disease-specific survival (DSS), and progress-free interval (PFI) prognosis in multiple tumor types. The ROC analysis showed high predictive accuracy for pan-cancer.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, DEPDC1 is aberrantly expressed and plays an immune-oncogenic role in pan-cancer, and DEPDC1 may serve as a biomarker for cancer diagnosis and therapy.
Comment in    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2023 May;19(5):259-260.
BACKGROUND: Although most patients with newly diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma (NB) achieve remission after initial therapy, more than 50% experience late relapses caused by minimal residual disease (MRD) and succumb to their cancer. Therapeutic strategies to target MRD may benefit these children. We developed a new chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting glypican-2 (GPC2) and conducted iterative preclinical engineering of the CAR structure to maximize its anti-tumor efficacy before clinical translation.METHODS: We evaluated different GPC2-CAR constructs by measuring the CAR activity in vitro. NOD-SCID mice engrafted orthotopically with human NB cell lines or patient-derived xenografts and treated with human CAR T cells served as in vivo models. Mechanistic studies were performed using single-cell RNA-sequencing.RESULTS: Applying stringent in vitro assays and orthotopic in vivo NB models, we demonstrated that our single-chain variable fragment, CT3, integrated into a CAR vector with a CD28 hinge, CD28 transmembrane, and 4-1BB co-stimulatory domain (CT3.28H.BBζ) elicits the best preclinical anti-NB activity compared with other tested CAR constructs. This enhanced activity was associated with an enrichment of CD8+ effector T cells in the tumor-microenvironment and upregulation of several effector molecules such as GNLY, GZMB, ZNF683, and HMGN2. Finally, we also showed that the CT3.28H.BBζ CAR we developed was more potent than a recently clinically tested GD2-targeted CAR to control NB growth in vivo.CONCLUSION: Given the robust preclinical activity of CT3.28H.BBζ, these results form a promising basis for further clinical testing in children with NB.
BACKGROUND: Inflammatory cytokines play roles in the pathogenesis of celiac disease. To introduce new diagnostic markers in patients with celiac disease for easy, fast, low cost, and non-invasive diagnosis, we evaluated the peripheral blood expression levels of interleukin-15 (IL-15), interleukin-17A (IL-17A), interleukin23A (IL-23A), granzyme B (GzmB), T-box transcription factor 21 (TBX21), and tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3 (TNFAIP3) of patients compared with the healthy controls, which were extracted from public databases organized in a protein-protein interaction network, in this group. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were collected from 30 patients with celiac disease and 30 healthy subjects. Total RNA was extracted, and mRNA expression levels of targeted genes were investigated by the quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method. SPSS software was used for statistical analysis. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to characterize the diagnostic ability of the studied genes. RESULTS: The expression of IL-15, IL-17A, IL-23A, GzmB, TBX21, and TNFAIP3 genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with celiac disease showed a significant increase compared with the control group. Among them, TNFAIP3, IL23A, and GzmB have better resolution and diagnostic value in differentiating patients with celiac disease from healthy controls. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that TNFAIP3, IL23A, and GzmB could be useful and sensible markers in differentiating patients with celiac disease from healthy controls. However, the diagnostic relevance of other genes recognized by pathway analysis needs to be further investigated.
Green microalgae can accumulate neutral lipids, as part of a general lipid remodeling mechanism under stress such as nitrogen starvation. Lobosphaera incisa is of special interest because of its unique TAG acyl chain composition, especially 20:4 (n-6) can reach up to 21% of dry weight after nitrogen starvation. In order to identify factors that may influence the accumulation of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), we identified recently a linoleate 13-lipoxygenase (LiLOX). It shares highest identity with plastidic enzymes from vascular plants and is induced upon nitrogen starvation. Here, we confirmed the localization of LiLOX in the stroma of plastids via transient expression in epithelial onion cells. In order to further characterize this enzyme, we focused on the identification of the endogenous substrate of LiLOX. In this regard, an ex vivo enzymatic assay, coupled with non-targeted analysis via mass spectrometry allowed the identification of MGDG, DGDG and PC as three substrate candidates, later confirmed via in vitro assays. Further investigation revealed that LiLOX has preferences towards the lipid class MGDG, which seems in agreement with its localization in the galactolipid rich plastid. Altogether, this study shows the first characterization of plastidic LOX from green algae, showing preference for MGDGs. However, lipidomics analysis did neither reveal an endogenous LiLOX product nor the final end product of MGDG oxidation. Nevertheless, the latter is a key to understanding the role of this enzyme and since its expression is highest during the degradation of the plastidic membrane, it is tempting to assume its involvement in this process.
BACKGROUND: Sepsis remains a life-threatening disease with a high mortality rate that causes millions of deaths worldwide every year. Many studies have suggested that pyroptosis plays an important role in the development and progression of sepsis. However, the potential prognostic and diagnostic value of pyroptosis-related genes in sepsis remains unknown.METHODS: The GSE65682 and GSE95233 datasets were obtained from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and pyroptosis-related genes were obtained from previous literature and Molecular Signature Database. Univariate cox analysis and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) cox regression analysis were used to select prognostic differentially expressed pyroptosis-related genes and constructed a prognostic risk score. Functional analysis and immune infiltration analysis were used to investigate the biological characteristics and immune cell enrichment in sepsis patients who were classified as low- or high-risk based on their risk score. Then the correlation between pyroptosis-related genes and immune cells was analyzed and the diagnostic value of the selected genes was assessed using the receiver operating characteristic curve.RESULTS: A total of 16 pyroptosis-related differentially expressed genes were identified between sepsis patients and healthy individuals. A six-gene-based (GZMB, CHMP7, NLRP1, MYD88, ELANE, and AIM2) prognostic risk score was developed. Based on the risk score, sepsis patients were divided into low- and high-risk groups, and patients in the low-risk group had a better prognosis. Functional enrichment analysis found that NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, hematopoietic cell lineage, and other immune-related pathways were enriched. Immune infiltration analysis showed that some innate and adaptive immune cells were significantly different between low- and high-risk groups, and correlation analysis revealed that all six genes were significantly correlated with neutrophils. Four out of six genes (GZMB, CHMP7, NLRP1, and AIM2) also have potential diagnostic value in sepsis diagnosis.CONCLUSION: We developed and validated a novel prognostic predictive risk score for sepsis based on six pyroptosis-related genes. Four out of the six genes also have potential diagnostic value in sepsis diagnosis.
PURPOSE: Here, we investigated expression modules reflecting the reciprocal expression of the cancer microenvironment and immune response-related genes associated with poor prognosis in primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL).METHODS: Weighted gene coexpression network analysis revealed representative modules, including neurogenesis, immune response, anti-virus, microenvironment, gene expression and translation, extracellular matrix, morphogenesis, and cell adhesion in the transcriptome data of 31 PCNSL samples. RESULTS : Gene expression networks were also reflected by protein-protein interaction networks. In particular, some of the hub genes were highly expressed in patients with PCNSL with prognoses as follows: AQP4, SLC1A3, GFAP, CXCL9, CXCL10, GBP2, IFI6, OAS2, IFIT3, DCN, LRP1, and LUM with good prognosis; and STAT1, IFITM3, GZMB, ISG15, LY6E, TGFB1, PLAUR, MMP4, FTH1, PLAU, CSF3R, FGR, POSTN, CCR7, TAS1R3, small ribosomal subunit genes, and collagen type 1/3/4/6 genes with poor prognosis. Furthermore, prognosis prediction formulae were constructed using the Cox proportional-hazards regression model, which demonstrated that the IP-10 receptor gene CXCR3 and type I interferon-induced protein gene IFI44L could predict patient survival in PCNSL.CONCLUSION: These results indicate that the differential expression and balance of immune response and microenvironment genes may be required for PCNSL tumor growth or prognosis prediction, which would help understanding the mechanism of tumorigenesis and potential therapeutic targets in PCNSL.
Endometrial carcinoma (EC) is the second major female genital malignancy. Genetic signatures may be an improved choice to predict the prognosis of EC patients. The relationship between pyroptosis and tumours has attracted much attention in recent years. Here, we constructed a new pyroptosis-related gene (PRG) signature for predicting the prognosis of EC. In this study, gene data and clinical information of EC patients were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Following the identification of PRGs correlated with EC prognosis, we further investigate the bioinformatics functions of these PRGs by univariate Cox regression analysis and Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. Then, we used the least absolute contraction and selection operator (LASSO) regression and multiple Cox regression analysis to construct a new PRG signature that contains seven PRGs (NFKB1, EEF2K, CTSV, MDM2, GZMB, PANX1, and PTEN) and performed the Kaplan-Meier (K-M) analysis, receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis, and principal component analysis (PCA) to evaluate the prognostic value of our novel PRG signature. Finally, we assessed the correlations between pyroptosis and immune cells/checkpoints through the CIBERSORT tool and single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). The result suggested that our signature was powerful in predicting EC prognosis and may play a part in assessing response to immunotherapy in EC patients. In conclusion, our study established a novel PRG signature for EC, which can be used as an effective prognostic marker in clinical practice in the future.
Golgi-Associated plant Pathogenesis Related protein 1 (GAPR-1) acts as a negative regulator of autophagy by interacting with Beclin 1 at Golgi membranes in mammalian cells. The molecular mechanism of this interaction is largely unknown. We recently showed that human GAPR-1 (hGAPR-1) has amyloidogenic properties resulting in the formation of protein condensates upon overexpression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Here we show that human Beclin 1 (hBeclin 1) has several predicted amyloidogenic regions and that overexpression of hBeclin 1-mCherry in yeast also results in the formation of fluorescent protein condensates. Surprisingly, co-expression of hGAPR-1-GFP and hBeclin 1-mCherry results in a strong reduction of hBeclin 1 condensates. Mutations of the known interaction site on the hGAPR-1 and hBeclin 1 surface abolished the effect on condensate formation during co-expression without affecting the condensate formation properties of the individual proteins. Similarly, a hBeclin 1-derived B18 peptide that is known to bind hGAPR-1 and to interfere with the interaction between hGAPR-1 and hBeclin 1, abolished the reduction of hBeclin 1 condensates by co-expression of hGAPR-1. These results indicate that the same type of protein-protein interactions interfere with condensate formation during co-expression of hGAPR-1 and hBeclin 1 as previously described for their interaction at Golgi membranes. The amyloidogenic properties of the B18 peptide were, however, important for the interaction with hGAPR-1, as mutant peptides with reduced amyloidogenic properties also showed reduced interaction with hGAPR-1 and reduced interference with hGAPR-1/hBeclin 1 condensate formation. We propose that amyloidogenic interactions take place between hGAPR-1 and hBeclin 1 prior to condensate formation.
BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease characterized by erosive arthritis, and current treatments for RA fall short of the outcomes expected by clinicians and patients.OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to identify novel therapeutic and prognostic targets in RA at the genomic level and to screen desirable compounds with potential inhibitory effects on GZMB.METHODS: We performed differential gene analysis on GSE55235 and GSE55457 from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and then obtained the intersection of the two differentially expressed genes (DEGs) lists by drawing Venn diagrams. Then we performed protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, Gene Ontology (GO) analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis on the DEGs of the intersection. Next, we downloaded the crystal structure of Granzyme B (GZMB). Molecular docking technology was used to screen potential inhibitors of GZMB in subsequent experiments, and we then analyzed the toxicity and water solubility of these potential inhibitors for future drug experiments. Finally, whether the docking of these small molecules with GZMB is stable is tested by molecular dynamics.RESULTS: A total of 352 mutual DEGs were identified. Twenty hub genes were obtained according to PPI network analysis, among which the GZMB gene attracted the attention of our research. Three potent natural compounds, ZINC000004557101, ZINC000012495776, and ZINC000038143593, bound to GZMB, show better binding affinity. Furthermore, they are predicted to own low Ames mutagenicity, developmental toxicity potential, rodent carcinogenicity, and high tolerance to cytochrome P4502D6. Molecular dynamics simulations show that ZINC000004557101 and GZMB have more advantageous potential energy and can exist stably in a natural environment. Moreover, we finally verified the inhibitory effect of ZINC000004557101 on granzyme B by 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and Western blotting experiment.CONCLUSION: RA patients showed increased GZMB expression. ZINC000004557101 is a potential drug targeting GZMB for treating RA.
Diphencyprone (DPCP) is a hapten that causes a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction when applied topically. It has clinical uses in the treatment of various conditions such as melanoma metastases, warts, and alopecia areata, but the mechanisms are currently not well understood in humans. To further characterize the immunologic effects of DPCP, the authors performed a proteomic analysis of normal skin of eight healthy volunteers following a single application of DPCP and compared them with placebo-treated skin from the same volunteers. A total of 96 proteins were examined using the Olink immuno-oncology panel at 3 days (peak response), 14 days (partially resolved response), and 120 days (completely resolved response). Our analysis revealed significant upregulation of markers of immune cell activation (interleukin [IL] 8), vascular and tissue remodeling (matrix metallopeptidase 12 [MMP12], nitric oxide synthase 3 [NOS3]), antineoplastic markers (granzyme B [GZMB]), and the Th1 axis (interferon gamma [IFNG], chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand [CXCL] 9, CXCL10, CXCL11) at days 3 and 14 compared with placebo (p < 0.05). In addition, several negative regulators of immune function such as programmed cell death 1 (PD1), programmed cell death ligand 1 (PDL1) (p < 0.001), and lymphocyte activation gene 3 (LAG3) (p < 0.05) were significantly upregulated at days 3 and 14. This induction of negative regulators may explain the seemingly paradoxical therapeutic benefits of DPCP in autoimmune conditions such as alopecia areata. The current analysis also indicated IL-4 upregulation only at day 3, followed by IL-12 upregulation only at day 14, suggesting a transient Th2 response followed by Th1 polarization. Overall, these data suggest a complex and evolving immunological delayed-type hypersensitivity response to a single application of DPCP over time. Future proteomic studies of samples from patients with melanoma metastases, warts, and alopecia areata treated long term with DPCP are needed to further evaluate its pharmacologic mechanisms.
INTRODUCTION: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common cancer. As metastasis and recurrence are main causes of CRC death, it is of great significance to find prognostic biomarkers.METHODS: Data related to CRC were collected from GEO database. The patients were grouped based on clinical information, and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were obtained by differential analysis. GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses were conducted based on DEGs. Cox combined with LASSO regression analysis was applied to screen out the key genes that used to build the prognostic model. Survival curve and receiver operating characteristic curve were employed to evaluate the validity and reliability of the model. Cox regression analysis was applied to determine the independence of risk score. GSEA and GSVA analyses were performed on patients with different risks according to the risk model scores, and the prognostic nomogram was plotted combined with clinical data. Also, qRT-PCR was applied to examine the expression status of the screened signatures in clinical cases.RESULTS: We obtained 302 DEGs by dividing CRC patients into early-stage and advanced-stage groups. The results of enrichment analyses demonstrated that the DEGs were mainly concentrated in tissues of extracellular matrix, epithelial cell proliferation, and cell adhesion-related pathways. Regression identified 9 hub genes notably correlated with prognosis, including CLK1, SLC2A3, LIPG, EPHB2, ATOH1, PLCB4, GZMB, CKMT2, and CXCL11. The validation of the risk model proved that the risk model was accurate and could independently determine the prognosis of patients. Finally, differences were found in pathway activity of extracellular matrix secretion, plaque secretion, Notch signaling pathway, and tight junctions in high-risk and low-risk patients. In addition to LIPG and CKMT2, other feature genes were notably overexpressed in CRC tumor tissues.CONCLUSION: The results proved that the expression levels of the 9 biomarkers could be used to predict the prognosis of CRC patients.
OBJECTIVES: HIV infection still remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The inability of highly-active antiretroviral therapy in HIV-1 eradication led to development of therapeutic vaccines. Exploiting effective immunogenic constructs and potent delivery systems are important to generate effective therapeutic vaccines, and overcome their poor membrane permeability. Among HIV-1 proteins, the Nef and Vpr proteins can be considered as antigen candidates in vaccine design.METHODS: In this study, the immunogenicity of Nef-Vpr antigen candidate in different regimens along with antimicrobial peptide LL-37 (as a DNA carrier) and Montanide 720 (as an adjuvant) was studied in mice. Moreover, the secretion of cytokines was assessed in virion-exposed mice lymphocytes in vitro.RESULTS: Our data indicated that groups immunized with the homologous protein + Montanide regimen (group 1), and also the heterologous DNA + LL-37 prime/protein + Montanide boost regimen (group 2) could significantly generate strong immune responses as compared to groups immunized with the DNA constructs (groups 3 & 4). Moreover, immunization of mice with the homologous DNA + LL-37 regimen in low dose of DNA (5 µg) could induce higher immune responses than the homologous naked DNA regimen in high dose of DNA (50 µg) indicating the role of LL-37 as a cell penetrating peptide. Additionally, the heterologous DNA + LL-37 prime/protein + Montanide boost regimen (group 2) induced significantly IFN-gamma secretion from virion-exposed lymphocytes in vitro.CONCLUSION: Generally, the use of LL-37 for DNA delivery, Montanide 720 as an adjuvant, and heterologous DNA prime/protein boost strategy could significantly increase IgG2a, IFN-gamma, and Granzyme B, and maintain cytokine secretion after exposure to virions. Indeed, the heterologous DNA + LL-37 prime/protein + Montanide boost regimen can be considered as a potent strategy for development of therapeutic HIV vaccines.
Verticillium dahliae causes economic losses to a wide range of crops as a vascular fungal pathogen. This filamentous ascomycete spends long periods of its life cycle in the plant xylem, a unique environment that requires adaptive processes. Specifically, fungal proteins produced in the xylem sap of the plant host may play important roles in colonizing the plant vasculature and in inducing disease symptoms. RNA sequencing revealed over 1500 fungal transcripts that are significantly more abundant in cells grown in tomato xylem sap compared with pectin-rich medium. Of the 85 genes that are strongly induced in the xylem sap, four genes encode the hydrophobins Vdh1, Vdh2, Vdh4 and Vdh5. Vdh4 and Vhd5 are structurally distinct from each other and from the three other hydrophobins (Vdh1-3) annotated in V. dahliae JR2. Their functions in the life cycle and virulence of V. dahliae were explored using genetics, cell biology and plant infection experiments. Our data revealed that Vdh4 and Vdh5 are dispensable for V. dahliae development and stress response, while both contribute to full disease development in tomato plants by acting at later colonization stages. We conclude that Vdh4 and Vdh5 are functionally specialized fungal hydrophobins that support pathogenicity against plants.
Immunotherapy plus tyrosine kinase inhibitor (IO-TKI) has become the standard first-line therapy for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). However, the modest response rate of IO-TKI therapy and the absence of biomarkers limited the selection of treatment strategies for RCC patients. There were three cohorts enrolled: two from our facility (ZS-MRCC and ZS-HRRCC) and one from a clinical study (JAVELIN-101). By RNA sequencing, the expression of ADAM9 in each sample was measured. By flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry, immune infiltration and T cell function were examined. Primary outcomes were established as treatment response and progression-free survival (PFS). Patients with low-ADAM9 expression had a higher objective response rate (56.5% vs 13.6%, P = 0.01) and longer PFS in both cohorts. In the ZS-HRRCC cohort, the expression of ADAM9 was associated with increased tumor-infiltrating T cells, which was proved by immunohistochemistry (P < 0.05) and flow cytometry (Spearman's ρ = 0.42, P < 0.001). In the high-ADAM9 group, CD8+ and CD4+ T cells revealed an exhausted phenotype with decreased GZMB (Spearman's ρ =  - 0.31, P = 0.05, and Spearman's ρ =  - 0.49, P < 0.001, respectively), and fewer Macrophages were identified. A predictive RFscore was further constructed by random forest approach, involving ADAM9 and immunologic genes. Only in the subgroup with the lower RFscore did IO-TKI outperform TKI monotherapy. High-ADAM9 expression was associated with immunosuppression and IO-TKI resistance. Expression of ADAM9 was also associated with the exhaustion and dysfunction of T cells. ADAM9-based RFscore has the potential to be used as a biomarker to distinguish the optimal patient treatment methods between IO-TKI and TKI monotherapy.
Primary cilia are sensory organelles essential for embryonic and postnatal development, and tissue homeostasis in adulthood. They are generated in a cell cycle-dependent manner and found on most cells of the body. Although cilia formation is intensively investigated virtually nothing is known about the transcriptional regulation of primary ciliation. We used here Odf2/Cenexin, encoding a protein of the mother centriole and the basal body that is mandatory for primary cilia formation, as the target gene for the identification of transcriptional activators. We identified a consensus binding site for Fox transcription factors (TFs) in its promoter region and focused here on the Fox family. We found transcriptional activation of Odf2 neither by FOXO TFs nor by the core TF for multiciliation, FOXJ1. However, we identified FOXA1 as a transcriptional activator of Odf2 by reporter gene assays and qRT-PCR, and showed by qWB that Foxa1 knockdown caused a decrease in ODF2 and CP110 proteins. We verified the binding sequence of FOXA1 in the Odf2 promoter by ChIP. Finally, we demonstrated that knockdown of FOXA1 affected primary cilia formation. We, thus, showed for the first time, that FOXA1 regulates primary ciliation by transcriptional activation of ciliary genes.
Fungal growth and development are coordinated with specific secondary metabolism. This coordination requires 8 of 74 F-box proteins of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. F-box proteins recognize primed substrates for ubiquitination by Skp1-Cul1-Fbx (SCF) E3 ubiquitin RING ligases and degradation by the 26S proteasome. 24 F-box proteins are found in the nuclear fraction as part of SCFs during vegetative growth. 43 F-box proteins interact with SCF proteins during growth, development or stress. 45 F-box proteins are associated with more than 700 proteins that have mainly regulatory roles. This corroborates that accurate surveillance of protein stability is prerequisite for organizing multicellular fungal development. Fbx23 combines subcellular location and protein stability control, illustrating the complexity of F-box mediated regulation during fungal development. Fbx23 interacts with epigenetic methyltransferase VipC which interacts with fungal NF-κB-like velvet domain regulator VeA that coordinates fungal development with secondary metabolism. Fbx23 prevents nuclear accumulation of methyltransferase VipC during early development. These results suggest that in addition to their role in protein degradation, F-box proteins also control subcellular accumulations of key regulatory proteins for fungal development.
Emergency hematopoiesis is a concerted response aimed toward enhanced protection from infection, involving multiple cell types and developmental stages across the immune system. Despite its importance, the underlying molecular regulation remains poorly understood. The deubiquitinase USP22 regulates the levels of monoubiquitinated histone H2B (H2Bub1), which is associated with activation of interferon responses upon viral infection. Here, we show that in the absence of infection or inflammation, mice lacking Usp22 in all hematopoietic cells display profound systemic emergency hematopoiesis, evident by increased hematopoietic stem cell proliferation, myeloid bias, and extramedullary hematopoiesis. Functionally, loss of Usp22 results in elevated phagocytosis by neutrophilic granulocytes and enhanced innate protection against Listeria monocytogenes infection. At the molecular level, we found this state of emergency hematopoiesis associated with transcriptional signatures of myeloid priming, enhanced mitochondrial respiration, and innate and adaptive immunity and inflammation. Augmented expression of many inflammatory genes was linked to elevated locus-specific H2Bub1 levels. Collectively, these results demonstrate the existence of a tunable epigenetic state that promotes systemic emergency hematopoiesis in a cell-autonomous manner to enhance innate protection, identifying potential paths toward immune enhancement.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is a lethal and metastatic malignancy resistant to therapy. Elucidating how pancreatic tumor-specific T cells differentiate and are maintained in vivo could inform novel therapeutic avenues to promote T cell antitumor activity. Here, we show that the spleen is a critical site harboring tumor-specific CD8 T cells that functionally segregate based on differential Cxcr3 and Klrg1 expression. Cxcr3+ Klrg1- T cells express the memory stem cell marker Tcf1, whereas Cxcr3-Klrg1 + T cells express GzmB consistent with terminal differentiation. We identify a Cxcr3+ Klrg1+ intermediate T cell subpopulation in the spleen that is highly enriched for tumor specificity. However, tumor-specific T cells infiltrating primary tumors progressively downregulate both Cxcr3 and Klrg1 while upregulating exhaustion markers PD-1 and Lag-3. We show that antigen-specific T cell infiltration into PDA is Cxcr3 independent. Further, Cxcr3-deficiency results in enhanced antigen-specific T cell IFNγ production in primary tumors, suggesting that Cxcr3 promotes loss of effector function. Ultimately, however, Cxcr3 was critical for mitigating cancer cell dissemination following immunotherapy with CD40 agonist + anti-PD-L1 or T cell receptor engineered T cell therapy targeting mesothelin. In the absence of Cxcr3, splenic Klrg1 + GzmB + antitumor T cells wain while pancreatic cancer disseminates suggesting a role for these cells in eliminating circulating metastatic tumor cells. Intratumoral myeloid cells are poised to produce Cxcl10, whereas splenic DC subsets produce Cxcl9 following immunotherapy supporting differential roles for these chemokines on T cell differentiation. Together, our study supports that Cxcr3 mitigates tumor cell dissemination by impacting peripheral T cell fate rather than intratumoral T cell trafficking.
Ischemic stroke results in blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, during which the reciprocal interaction between ischemic neurons and components of the BBB appears to play a critical role. However, the underlying mechanisms for BBB protection remain largely unknown. In this study, we found that Serpina3n, a serine protease inhibitor, was significantly upregulated in the ischemic brain, predominantly in ischemic neurons from 6 hours to 3 days after stroke. Using neuron-specific adeno-associated virus (AAV), intranasal delivery of recombinant protein, and immune-deficient Rag1-/- mice, we demonstrated that Serpina3n attenuated BBB disruption and immune cell infiltration following stroke by inhibiting the activity of granzyme B (GZMB) and neutrophil elastase (NE) secreted by T cells and neutrophils. Furthermore, we found that intranasal delivery of rSerpina3n significantly attenuated the neurologic deficits after stroke. In conclusion, Serpina3n is a novel ischemic neuron-derived proteinase inhibitor that counterbalances BBB disruption induced by peripheral T cell and neutrophil infiltration after ischemic stroke. These findings reveal a novel endogenous protective mechanism against BBB damage with Serpina3n being a potential therapeutic target in ischemic stroke.
The carbon efficiency of storage lipid biosynthesis from imported sucrose in green Brassicaceae seeds is proposed to be enhanced by the PRK/Rubisco shunt, in which ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) acts outside the context of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle to recycle CO2 molecules released during fatty acid synthesis. This pathway utilizes metabolites generated by the nonoxidative steps of the pentose phosphate pathway. Photosynthesis provides energy for reactions such as the phosphorylation of ribulose 5-phosphate by phosphoribulokinase (PRK). Here, we show that loss of PRK in Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) blocks photoautotrophic growth and is seedling-lethal. However, seeds containing prk embryos develop normally, allowing us to use genetics to assess the importance of the PRK/Rubisco shunt. Compared with nonmutant siblings, prk embryos produce one-third less lipids-a greater reduction than expected from simply blocking the proposed PRK/Rubisco shunt. However, developing prk seeds are also chlorotic and have elevated starch contents compared with their siblings, indicative of secondary effects. Overexpressing PRK did not increase embryo lipid content, but metabolite profiling suggested that Rubisco activity becomes limiting. Overall, our findings show that the PRK/Rubisco shunt is tightly integrated into the carbon metabolism of green Arabidopsis seeds, and that its manipulation affects seed glycolysis, starch metabolism, and photosynthesis.
Skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) is the most lethal form of skin cancers owing to high invasiveness and high metastatic potential. Tumor microenvironment (TME) provides powerful evidences for discerning SKCM, raising the prospect to identify biomarkers of SKCM. Based on the transcriptome profiles of patients with SKCM and the corresponding clinical information from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we used ESTIMATE algorithm to calculate ImmuneScore and StromalScore and identified the TME-Related differentially expressed genes (DEGs), than the intersected TME-Related DEGs were used for subsequent functional enrichment analysis. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis was used to identify the functionality-related DEGs and univariate Cox regression analysis was used to identify the survival-related DEGs. Furthermore, SKCM-related DEGs were identified based on two Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets. Finally, we intersected functionality-related DEGs, survival-related DEGs, and SKCM-related DEGs, ascertaining that six DEGs (CCL4, CXCL10, CCL5, GZMB, C1QA, and C1QB) function as core TME-related genes (CTRGs). Significant differences of GZMB, C1QA, and C1QB expressions were found in gender and clinicopathologic staging of SKCM. High levels of GZMB, C1QA, and C1QB expressions were associated with favorable prognosis. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) showed that cell-cell interaction, cell behavior, and intracellular signaling transduction may be mainly involved in both C1QA, C1QB and GZMB expressions and metabolism of phospholipid and amino acid, transcription, and translation may be implicated in low GZMB expressions. C1QA, C1QB, and GZMB are novel SKCM-relating CTRGs, providing promising immune-related prognostic biomarkers for SKCM.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSD) are chronical inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) and the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Several recent studies have demonstrated that T cells play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of NMOSD.In this study, we investigated CD8+ T cell phenotypes and levels of the cytotoxic protein granzyme B (GzmB), as well as their potential clinical application in NMOSD.METHODS: In this study, 90 peripheral blood samples were collected from 59 NMOSD patients with seropositive anti-aquaporin-4 (AQP4) antibodies and 31 sex- and age-matched healthy donors (HDs). Flow cytometry was used to detect circulating levels of GzmB and CD8+ T cell subpopulations, including naïve (TN, CCD7+CD45RA+), central memory (TCM, CCD7+CD45RA-), effector memory (TEM, CCD7-CD45RA-), terminal differentiation effector memory cells (TEMRA, CCD7-CD45RA+) in both groups. The associations between GzmB levels in CD8+T cells and clinical characteristics of NMOSD were evaluated.RESULTS: NMOSD patients exhibited significantly decreased proportions of CD8+TN cells and increased proportions of highly differentiated CD8+T cells (TEMRA) compared with HDs. In addition, levels of GzmB in CD8+ T cells were markedly higher in NMOSD patients than in HDs. Moreover, we observed that high proportions of GzmB-expressing CD8+ T cells were more common in patients with a poor response to immunotherapies, and showed a good potential to distinguish poor responders from responders (ACU=0.89). Clinical correlation analysis indicated that high levels of GzmB in CD8+ T cells were not only related to severe disability but also significantly associated with increased serum levels of neurofilament light (NFL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Multivariate linear regression analyses further suggested that GzmB expression in CD8+ T cells was predominantly associated with disability and immunotherapy effectiveness in NMOSD, independent of the sex, age, and disease phase. Transcription factor T-bet in CD8+ T cells were also significantly elevated in NMOSD and were associated with increasing number of circulating CD8+TEMRA cells and GzmB-expressing CD8+T cells.CONCLUSIONS: Our study support the involvement of GzmB-expressing CD8+ T cells in the inflammatory response in patients with NMOSD and provide a potential biomarker for disease immunotherapy effectiveness and disability progression.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a type of systemic immune disease characterized by chronic inflammatory disease of the joints. However, the aetiology and underlying molecular events of RA are unclear. Here, we applied bioinformatics analysis to identify potential immune effector molecules involved in RA. The three microarray datasets were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. We used the R software screen 115 overlapping differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Subsequently, we constructed a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network encoded by these DEGs and identified 10 genes closely associated with RA - LCK, GZMA, GZMB, CD2, LAG3, IL-15, TNFRSF4, CD247, CCR5 and CCR7. Furthermore, in the miRNA-hub gene networks, we screened out hsa-miR-146a-5p, which is the miRNA controlling the largest number of hub genes. Finally, we found some transcription factors that closely interact with hub genes, such as FOXC1, GATA2, YY1, RUNX2, SREBF1, CEBPB and NFIC. This study successfully predicted that LCK, FOXC1 and hsa-miR-146a-5p can be used as potential immune effector molecules of RA. Our study may have potential implications for future prediction of disease progression in patients with symptomatic RA, and has important significance for the pathogenesis and targeted therapy of RA.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer and the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Identification of gene biomarkers and their regulatory factors and signaling pathways is very essential to reveal the molecular mechanisms of NSCLC initiation and progression. Thus, the goal of this study is to identify gene biomarkers for NSCLC diagnosis and prognosis by using scRNA-seq data through bioinformatics techniques. scRNA-seq data were obtained from the GEO database to identify DEGs. A total of 158 DEGs (including 48 upregulated and 110 downregulated) were detected after gene integration. Gene Ontology enrichment and KEGG pathway analysis of DEGs were performed by FunRich software. A PPI network of DEGs was then constructed using the STRING database and visualized by Cytoscape software. We identified 12 key genes (KGs) including MS4A1, CCL5, and GZMB, by using two topological methods based on the PPI networking results. The diagnostic, expression, and prognostic potentials of the identified 12 key genes were assessed using the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve and a web-based tool, SurvExpress. From the regulatory network analysis, we extracted the 7 key transcription factors (TFs) (FOXC1, YY1, CEBPB, TFAP2A, SREBF2, RELA, and GATA2), and 8 key miRNAs (hsa-miR-124-3p, hsa-miR-34a-5p, hsa-miR-21-5p, hsa-miR-155-5p, hsa-miR-449a, hsa-miR-24-3p, hsa-let-7b-5p, and hsa-miR-7-5p) associated with the KGs were evaluated. Functional enrichment and pathway analysis, survival analysis, ROC analysis, and regulatory network analysis highlighted crucial roles of the key genes. Our findings might play a significant role as candidate biomarkers in NSCLC diagnosis and prognosis.
OBJECTIVE: Pyroptosis is a type of programmed cell death. This study aimed to explore the roles of key pyroptosis-related genes in liver ischemia-reperfusion injury.METHODS: After collection and standardization of the transcriptome data from GSE12720 database, differentially expressed pyroptosis-related genes were identified. The risk genes screened by a random forest model were used to establish the line graph model. Consensus clustering was used to classify all samples according to the differentially expressed pyroptosis-related genes. Single-sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA) was performed to investigate the immune cell infiltration after hepatic ischemia-reperfusion. Cytoscape was used to visualize the regulatory network of transcription factor (TF)-microRNA (miRNA)-target genes.RESULTS: We identified 18 significantly and differentially expressed pyroptosis-related genes between the disease and normal samples. Among these 18 genes, IL1β was positively correlated with CXCL8 (r = 0.791) and BIRC3 (r = 0.78), while ADORA3 was negatively correlated with GZMB (r = -0.567) and CXCL8 (r = -0.566). Furthermore, the random forest model constructed using the top 10 pyroptosis-related genes could predict the risk of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion. Importantly, the decision curve analysis showed that patients could benefit from the risk prediction model. Moreover, we found that the expression of TXNIP, IRF1, and GJA1 was the mostly regulated by miRNAs, while the expression of BIRC3, NFκB1, and TXNIP was regulated by the TF RELA. RELA had the most hub genes involved in the regulation.CONCLUSION: Our study provides an overview of the expression landscape and the functional significance of pyroptosis-related genes in liver ischemia-reperfusion. Our findings also shed light on the clinical application of pyroptosis-related genes in the treatment of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury.
The synthesis of indole-3-acetonitrile (IAN) from the indolic glucosinolate (iGSL) glucobrassicin (GB) is a unique trait of members of the Brassicales. To assess the contribution of this pathway to indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) synthesis under stress conditions, drought stress (DS) experiments with Arabidopsis thaliana were performed in vitro. Analysis of GSLs in DS plants revealed higher contents of GB in shoots and roots compared to control plants. Deuterium incorporation experiments showed the highest turnover of GB compared to all other GSLs during drought conditions. Evidence suggests the involvement of the thioglucosidase BGLU18 in the degradation of GB. The nitrile specifier proteins NSP1 and NSP5 are known to direct the GSL hydrolysis towards formation of IAN. Nitrilases like NIT2 are able to subsequently synthesize IAA from IAN. Expression of BGLU18, NSP1, NSP5 and NIT2 and contents of GB, IAN and IAA were significantly elevated in DS plants compared to control plants suggesting the increased use of GB as IAA source. Significantly higher contents of reactive oxygen species in DS bglu18 and epithionitrile specifier protein (esp) mutants compared to Col-0 indicate higher stress levels in these mutants highlighting the need for both proteins in DS plants. Furthermore, GB accumulation in leaves was higher in both mutants during DS when compared to Col-0 indicating enhanced synthesis of GB due to a lack of breakdown products. This work provides the first evidence for the breakdown of iGSLs to IAN which seems to be used for synthesis of IAA in DS A. thaliana plants.
The Gram-positive model bacterium Bacillus subtilis can use several amino acids as sources of carbon and nitrogen. However, some amino acids inhibit the growth of this bacterium. This amino acid toxicity is often enhanced in strains lacking the second messenger cyclic dimeric adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (c-di-AMP). We observed that the presence of histidine is also toxic for a B. subtilis strain that lacks all three c-di-AMP synthesizing enzymes. However, suppressor mutants emerged, and whole-genome sequencing revealed mutations in the azlB gene that encode the repressor of the azl operon. This operon encodes an exporter and an importer for branched-chain amino acids. The suppressor mutations result in an overexpression of the azl operon. Deletion of the azlCD genes encoding the branched-chain amino acid exporter restored the toxicity of histidine, indicating that this exporter is required for histidine export and for resistance to otherwise toxic levels of the amino acid. The higher abundance of the amino acid exporter AzlCD increased the extracellular concentration of histidine, thus confirming the new function of AzlCD as a histidine exporter. Unexpectedly, the AzlB-mediated repression of the operon remains active even in the presence of amino acids, suggesting that the expression of the azl operon requires the mutational inactivation of AzlB. IMPORTANCE Amino acids are building blocks for protein biosynthesis in each living cell. However, due to their reactivity and the similarity between several amino acids, they may also be involved in harmful reactions or in noncognate interactions and thus may be toxic. Bacillus subtilis can deal with otherwise toxic histidine by overexpressing the bipartite amino acid exporter AzlCD. Although encoded in an operon that also contains a gene for an amino acid importer, the corresponding genes are not expressed, irrespective of the availability of amino acids in the medium. This suggests that the azl operon is a last resort by which to deal with histidine stress that can be expressed due to the mutational inactivation of the cognate repressor AzlB.
BACKGROUND: Recent technological advances opened the opportunity to simultaneously study gene expression for thousands of individual cells on a genome-wide scale. The experimental accessibility of such single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) approaches allowed gaining insights into the cell type composition of heterogeneous tissue samples of animal model systems and emerging models alike. A major prerequisite for a successful application of the method is the dissociation of complex tissues into individual cells, which often requires large amounts of input material and harsh mechanical, chemical and temperature conditions. However, the availability of tissue material may be limited for small animals, specific organs, certain developmental stages or if samples need to be acquired from collected specimens. Therefore, we evaluated different dissociation protocols to obtain single cells from small tissue samples of Drosophila melanogaster eye-antennal imaginal discs.RESULTS: We show that a combination of mechanical and chemical dissociation resulted in sufficient high-quality cells. As an alternative, we tested protocols for the isolation of single nuclei, which turned out to be highly efficient for fresh and frozen tissue samples. Eventually, we performed scRNAseq and single-nuclei RNA sequencing (snRNAseq) to show that the best protocols for both methods successfully identified relevant cell types. At the same time, snRNAseq resulted in less artificial gene expression that is caused by rather harsh dissociation conditions needed to obtain single cells for scRNAseq. A direct comparison of scRNAseq and snRNAseq data revealed that both datasets share biologically relevant genes among the most variable genes, and we showed differences in the relative contribution of the two approaches to identified cell types.CONCLUSION: We present two dissociation protocols that allow isolating single cells and single nuclei, respectively, from low input material. Both protocols resulted in extraction of high-quality RNA for subsequent scRNAseq or snRNAseq applications. If tissue availability is limited, we recommend the snRNAseq procedure of fresh or frozen tissue samples as it is perfectly suited to obtain thorough insights into cellular diversity of complex tissue.
Centenarians, who show mild infections and low incidence of tumors, are the optimal model to investigate healthy aging. However, longevity related immune characteristics has not been fully revealed largely due to lack of appropriate controls. In this study, single-cell transcriptomic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) derived from seven centenarians (CEN), six centenarians' offspring (CO), and nine offspring spouses or neighbors (Control, age-matched to CO) are performed to investigate the shared immune features between CEN and CO. The results indicate that among all 12 T cell clusters, the cytotoxic-phenotype-clusters (CPC) and the naïve-phenotype-clusters (NPC) significantly change between CEN and ontrol. Compared to Control, both CEN and CO are characterized by depleted NPC and increased CPC, which is dominated by CD8+ T cells. Furthermore, CPC from CEN and CO share enhanced signaling pathways and transcriptional factors associated with immune response, and possesse similar T-cell-receptor features, such as high clonal expansion. Interestingly, rather than a significant increase in GZMK+ CD8 cells during aging, centenarians show accumulation of GZMB+ and CMC1+ CD8 T cells. Collectively, this study unveils an immune remodeling pattern reflected by both quantitative increase and functional reinforcement of cytotoxic T cells which are essential for healthy aging.
BACKGROUND: Latest guidelines recommended immunotherapy (IO) plus tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) combination as standard first-line therapy in renal cell carcinoma (RCC), with no predictive biomarker being applied. Complement system shapes tumor microenvironment, which may influence TKI+IO benefit.METHODS: Two cohorts from our institute and 2 external cohorts were enrolled. RNA-sequencing was performed for each sample, and alternative complement pathway signature (ACPS) was defined by single sample gene set enrichment analysis. Immune infiltration and function were assessed by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry.RESULTS: Under TKI+IO therapy, ACPS was elevated in non-responders (P<0.01), and high-ACPS predicted lower response rate and shorter progression-free survival (P=0.040). Moreover, TKI+IO, rather than TKI monotherapy, may benefit patients of low-ACPS combined with SETD2-wild type (HR=0.55, P<0.001). In RCC, ACPS was associated with increased tumor-infiltrating T cells (Spearman's ρ=0.50, P=0.001). However, in high-ACPS samples, CD8+ T cells revealed an exhausted phenotype with decreased GZMB (P<0.001) and increased PD1 (P=0.008) expression. Elevated PD1 expression in high-ACPS samples was confirmed by immunohistochemistry (P=0.046). Besides, macrophage infiltration was increased in high-ACPS samples (P=0.045), along with suppressive cytokines.CONCLUSIONS: Under TKI+IO, high-ACPS was linked to immunosuppression and treatment resistance. ACPS might be used as a biomarker for better treatment strategy between TKI+IO or TKI monotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the leading histological subtype of lung cancer worldwide, causing high mortality each year. The tumor immune cell infiltration (ICI) is closely associated with clinical outcome with LUAD patients. The present study was designed to construct a gene signature based on the ICI of LUAD to predict prognosis.METHODS: Downloaded the raw data of three cohorts of the TCGA-LUAD, GSE72094, and GSE68465 and treat them as training cohort, validation cohort one, and validation cohort two for this research. Unsupervised clustering detailed grouped LUAD cases of the training cohort based on the ICI profile. The univariate Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier was adopted to identify potential prognostic genes from the differentially expressed genes recognized from the ICI clusters. A risk score-based prognostic signature was subsequently developed using LASSO-penalized Cox regression analysis. The Kaplan-Meier analysis, Cox analysis, ROC, IAUC, and IBS were constructed to assess the ability to predict the prognosis and effects of clinical variables in another two independent validation cohorts. More innovatively, we searched similar papers in the most recent year and made comprehensive comparisons with ours. GSEA was used to discover the related signaling pathway. The immune relevant signature correlation identification and immune infiltrating analysis were used to evaluate the potential role of the signature for immunotherapy and recognize the critical immune cell that can influence the signature's prognosis capability.RESULTS: A signature composed of thirteen gene including ABCC2, CCR2, CERS4, CMAHP, DENND1C, ECT2, FKBP4, GJB3, GNG7, KRT6A, PCDH7, PLK1, and VEGFC, was identified as significantly associated with the prognosis in LUAD patients. The thirteen-gene signature exhibited independence in evaluating the prognosis of LUAD patients in our training and validation cohorts. Compared to our predecessors, our model has an advantage in predictive power. Nine well know immunotherapy targets, including TBX2, TNF, CTLA4, HAVCR2, GZMB, CD8A, PRF1, GZMA, and PDCD1 were recognized correlating with our signature. The mast cells were found to play vital parts in backing on the thirteen-gene signature's outcome predictive capacity.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, the current study indicated a robust thirteen-gene signature that can accurately predict LUAD prognosis, which is superior to our predecessors in predictive ability. The immune relevant signatures, TBX2, TNF, CTLA4, HAVCR2, GZMB, CD8A, PRF1, GZMA, PDCD1, and mast cells infiltrating were found closely correlate with the thirteen-gene signature's power.
Efficient gene expression requires properly matured mRNAs for functional transcript translation. Several factors including the guard proteins monitor maturation and act as nuclear retention factors for unprocessed pre-mRNAs. Here we show that the guard protein Npl3 monitors 5'-capping. In its absence, uncapped transcripts resist degradation, because the Rat1-Rai1 5'-end degradation factors are not efficiently recruited to these faulty transcripts. Importantly, in npl3Δ, these improperly capped transcripts escape this quality control checkpoint and leak into the cytoplasm. Our data suggest a model in which Npl3 associates with the Rai1 bound pre-mRNAs. In case the transcript was properly capped and is thus CBC (cap binding complex) bound, Rai1 dissociates from Npl3 allowing the export factor Mex67 to interact with this guard protein and support nuclear export. In case Npl3 does not detect proper capping through CBC attachment, Rai1 binding persists and Rat1 can join this 5'-complex to degrade the faulty transcript.
The bacterial cell wall is composed of a thick layer of peptidoglycan and cell wall polymers, which are either embedded in the membrane or linked to the peptidoglycan backbone and referred to as lipoteichoic acid (LTA) and wall teichoic acid (WTA), respectively. Modifications of the peptidoglycan or WTA backbone can alter the susceptibility of the bacterial cell towards cationic antimicrobials and lysozyme. The human pathogen Listeria monocytogenes is intrinsically resistant towards lysozyme, mainly due to deacetylation and O-acetylation of the peptidoglycan backbone via PgdA and OatA. Recent studies identified additional factors, which contribute to the lysozyme resistance of this pathogen. One of these is the predicted ABC transporter, EslABC. An eslB mutant is hyper-sensitive towards lysozyme, likely due to the production of thinner and less O-acetylated peptidoglycan. Using a suppressor screen, we show here that suppression of eslB phenotypes could be achieved by enhancing peptidoglycan biosynthesis, reducing peptidoglycan hydrolysis or alterations in WTA biosynthesis and modification. The lack of EslB also leads to a higher negative surface charge, which likely stimulates the activity of peptidoglycan hydrolases and lysozyme. Based on our results, we hypothesize that the portion of cell surface exposed WTA is increased in the eslB mutant due to the thinner peptidoglycan layer and that latter one could be caused by an impairment in UDP-N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) production or distribution.
Sperm marking provides a key tool for reproductive biology studies, but it also represents a valuable monitoring tool for genetic pest control strategies such as the sterile insect technique. Sperm-marked lines can be generated by introducing transgenes that mediate the expression of fluorescent proteins during spermatogenesis. The homozygous lines established by transgenesis approaches are going through a genetic bottleneck that can lead to reduced fitness. Transgenic SIT approaches have mostly focused on Dipteran and Lepidopteran pests so far. With this study, we provide sperm-marked lines for the Coleopteran pest model organism, the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, based on the β2-tubulin promoter/enhancer driving red (DsRed) or green (EGFP) fluorescence. The obtained lines are reasonably competitive and were thus used for our studies on reproductive biology, confirming the phenomenon of 'last-male sperm precedence' and that the spermathecae are deployed for long-term sperm storage, enabling the use of sperm from first mating events even after secondary mating events for a long period of time. The homozygosity and competitiveness of the lines will enable future studies to analyze the controlled process of sperm movement into the long-term storage organ as part of a post-mating cryptic female choice mechanism of this extremely promiscuous species.
AIMS: In this report, it was investigated that hepatoma cells can cause downregulation of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) function and tea polyphenols (TPs) can reverse downregulation of CTL function.METHODS: The expression of GRP78, PD-1, and TIM-3 was detected by western blotting in CTLL-2 cocultured with Hepa1-6 cells. Moreover, perforin (PRF1) and granzyme B (GzmB) protein levels and ER morphology were examined by ELISA and TEM, respectively. After 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA) or tunicamycin (TM) treatment, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), and mucin domain 3 (TIM-3), PRF1, and GzmB were measured by western blotting and ELISA. After sh-CHOP or GSK2656157 (PERK inhibitor) stimulation, the activation of the PERK-CHOP pathway was detected in CTLL-2 cells. Finally, changes in PD-1, TIM-3, PRF1, and GzmB levels were detected to verify the reversal of CTL depletion by TP.RESULTS: The expression of GRP78, PD-1, and TIM-3 clearly increased, and swelling was observed for the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in CTLL-2 cells cocultured with hepatoma cells. Concurrently, the levels of PRF1 and GzmB decreased. CTLL-2 depletion was induced after stimulation with TM and differed from 4-PBA stimulation. Treatment with sh-CHOP or GSK2656157 caused a decrease in PD-1 and TIM-3 expression, whereas the expression of PRF1 and GzmB clearly increased. After adding TP, the function of CTLs increased markedly.CONCLUSION: Hepatoma cells induced the depletion of CTLs through the ER stress PERK-CHOP pathway, and TP reversed this depletion by downregulating ER stress.
The biosynthesis of N-hydroxy pipecolic acid (NHP) has been intensively studied, though knowledge on its metabolic turnover is still scarce. To close this gap, we discovered three novel metabolites via metabolite fingerprinting in Arabidopsis thaliana leaves after Pseudomonas infection and UV-C treatment. Exact mass information and fragmentation by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) suggest a methylated derivative of NHP (MeNHP), an NHP-OGlc-hexosyl conjugate (NHP-OGlc-Hex), and an additional NHP-OGlc-derivative. All three compounds were formed in wild-type leaves but were not present in the NHP-deficient mutant fmo1-1. The identification of these novel NHP-based molecules was possible by a dual-infiltration experiment using a mixture of authentic NHP and D9-NHP standards for leaf infiltration followed by UV-C treatment. Interestingly, the signal intensity of MeNHP and other NHP-derived metabolites increased in ugt76b1-1 mutant plants. For MeNHP, we unequivocally determined the site of methylation at the carboxylic acid moiety. MeNHP application by leaf infiltration leads to the detection of a MeNHP-OGlc as well as NHP, suggesting MeNHP hydrolysis to NHP. This is in line with the observation that MeNHP infiltration is able to rescue the fmo1-1 susceptible phenotype against Hyaloperonospora arabidopsidis Noco 2. Together, these data suggest MeNHP as an additional storage or transport form of NHP.
Protein-protein interactions are central to most cellular processes and their dysregulation has been related to the development of various diseases. Proximity-based labeling methods are used to identify the endogenous interaction partners of specific proteins of interest (POIs). The POI is fused to promiscuous enzymes, which generate reactive species in vivo and label proteins in close vicinity. APEX-based proximity labeling techniques utilize an engineered ascorbate peroxidase, which in the presence of H2O2 oxidizes biotin-phenol to short lived biotin-phenoxyl radicals that biotinylate nearby proteins. The biotinylated proteins are enriched by biotin affinity capture and identified by mass spectrometry. We devised an advanced method, RAPIDS, in which the peroxidase is physically separated from the POI and only a rapamycin-induced dimerization using the FRB-FKBP12 system brings the two proteins together. RAPIDS improves the specificity of APEX-based interactome analysis by strictly eliminating false positives. In this chapter, we describe this method in detail, with VAPB as a protein of interest and versions of APEX2 with different subcellular localizations. VAPB localizing to different cellular compartments, the endoplasmic reticulum and the inner nuclear membrane, yielded distinct sets of proximity partners as identified by RAPIDS.
OBJECTIVE: The dysfunction of immune surveillance, a hot spot in cancer research, could lead to the occurrence and development in multicancers. However, the potential mechanisms of immunity in Wilms' tumor (WT) remain unclear on Wilms' tumor (WT). In this study, we aim to investigate the immune cell in WT and explore the underlying treatment strategy.METHOD: We quantified stromal and immune scores by using ESTIMATE algorithm based on gene expression matrix of WT patients in TCGA and GEO databases. Different expression genes (DEGs) and functional enrichments were analyzed by R studio and DAVID tools. Flow cytometry, immunofluorescence staining, ELISA assay, and qRT-PCR were used for detecting the NK cells, cytotoxic cytokines (INF-γ, PRF, and GZMB), and NK cell receptor expression, respectively. WT patient autologous NK cells were stimulated by IL-2 and IL-15, and the cytotoxicity of NK cells against WT cell lines was detected by LDH assay. Western blot experiment was used for measuring the MAPK signaling pathway protein maker in NK cells.RESULTS: ESTIMATE indicated that WT tissue had a lower immune score than adjacent kidney tissue. Meanwhile, the low immune score group was associated with poorly outcomes. DEG functional enrichment analysis showed that NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was significantly different in low and high immune score groups. Although few of proportion of NK cells in WT patients were increased, most of that were significantly lower than normal children. Moreover, the proportion of NK cells and the expression level of INF-γ, PRF, and GZMB in WT tissue were lower than adjacent kidney tissue. Importantly, the NKG2D expression level of NK cells was significantly lower in WT tissue. Furthermore, in vitro, compared with uncultured NK cells, IL-2 and IL-15 could effectively enhance the cytotoxicity of NK cells on killing the WT cell lines. The FACS and WB results showed that the NKG2D and p-PI3K ratio PI3K, MEK1/2, and p-ERK1/2 ratio ERK1/2 were significantly increased in IL-2 and IL15 group compared with uncultured groups.CONCLUSION: The abnormal NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity may cause the occurrence of WT. Costimulation of WT patients autologous NK cells could effectively enhance the antitumor reaction which involved in activation of NKG2D-mediated MAPK signaling pathway.
Author information:(1)Institute of Basic Medicine, Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an 710021, China.(2)Department of General Practitioners, Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an 710021, China.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common type of liver cancer and the third leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Factors including carcinogens, infection of hepatitis viruses, alcohol abuse, and metabolic disorders such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease mainly contribute to HCC initiation and progression. Immunotherapy is one of the most powerful tools for unresectable HCC treatment in patients. CD8+ T cells are a major immune component in the tumor microenvironment with cytotoxic effects against cancer cells. However, these CD8+ T cells commonly display an exhaustion phenotype with high expression of programmed cell death protein 1, T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3, and/or lymphocyte-activation gene 3, producing low levels of perforin (PRF1) and granzyme B (GZMB), as well as anti-tumor cytokines, such as interferon gamma and tumor necrosis factor alpha. In the referenced study, the authors also showed that deprivation of glutamine decreased the antitumor function of CD8+ T cells, as well as the production of PRF1 and GZMB. However, the role of each amino acid in T cell function and exhaustion may depend on tumor type and tumor microenvironment, including the source of other nutrients. Overall, amino acids or other nutrient metabolites in the tumor microenvironment play a pivotal role in both tumor growth and immune response.
Inflammatory immune response plays a key role in exercise-induced injury and healing; however, the relevant regulatory mechanisms of immune infiltration in exercise-induced injuries remain less studied. In the present study, a highly efficient system for screening immunity-related biomarkers and immunomodulatory ability of natural nutritional supplements was developed by integrating intelligent data acquisition, data mining, network pharmacology, and computer-assisted target fishing. The findings demonstrated that resting natural killer cells showed a higher rate of infiltration after exercise, whereas naive B cells and activated dendritic cells showed higher rate of infiltration before exercise. Four key genes, namely PRF1, GZMB, CCL4, and FASLG, were associated with exercise-induced injuries and inflammatory immune response. In total, 26 natural compounds including echinacoside, eugenol, tocopherol, and casuariin were predicted by using the HERB databases. Molecular docking analysis showed that GZMB, FASLG, and CCL4 bound to echinacoside. In vivo experiments in mice showed that after 30 min swimming, natural killer (NK) cells showed high infiltration rates, and the key genes (GZMB, PRF1, FASLG, and CCL4) were highly expressed; however, echinocandin significantly reduced the level of NK cells and decreased the expression of the four key genes post exercise. This natural nutritional supplement may act to protect against inflammatory injury after exercise by suppressing specific immune infiltration.
BACKGROUND: Neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has improved pathological responses and survival rates compared with chemotherapy alone, leading to Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of nivolumab plus chemotherapy for resectable stage IB-IIIA NSCLC (AJCC 7th edition) without ALK or EGFR alterations. Unfortunately, a considerable percentage of tumors do not completely respond to therapy, which has been associated with early disease progression. So far, it is impossible to predict these events due to lack of knowledge. In this study, we characterized the gene expression profile of tumor samples to identify new biomarkers and mechanisms behind tumor responses to neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy and disease recurrence after surgery.METHODS: Tumor bulk RNA sequencing was performed in 16 pretreatment and 36 post-treatment tissue samples from 41 patients with resectable stage IIIA NSCLC treated with neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy from NADIM trial. A panel targeting 395 genes related to immunological processes was used. Tumors were classified as complete pathological response (CPR) and non-CPR, based on the total absence of viable tumor cells in tumor bed and lymph nodes tested at surgery. Differential-expressed genes between groups and pathway enrichment analysis were assessed using DESeq2 and gene set enrichment analysis. CIBERSORTx was used to estimate the proportions of immune cell subtypes.RESULTS: CPR tumors had a stronger pre-established immune infiltrate at baseline than non-CPR, characterized by higher levels of IFNG, GZMB, NKG7, and M1 macrophages, all with a significant area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) >0.9 for CPR prediction. A greater effect of neoadjuvant therapy was also seen in CPR tumors with a reduction of tumor markers and IFNγ signaling after treatment. Additionally, the higher expression of several genes, including AKT1, BST2, OAS3, or CD8B; or higher dendritic cells and neutrophils proportions in post-treatment non-CPR samples, were associated with relapse after surgery. Also, high pretreatment PD-L1 and tumor mutational burden levels influenced the post-treatment immune landscape with the downregulation of proliferation markers and type I interferon signaling molecules in surgery samples.CONCLUSIONS: Our results reinforce the differences between CPR and non-CPR responses, describing possible response and relapse immune mechanisms, opening the possibility of therapy personalization of immunotherapy-based regimens in the neoadjuvant setting of NSCLC.
Generalized vitiligo (GV) is an autoimmune skin disease characterized by bilateral white patches over the entire body. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) maintain peripheral tolerance; however, they are found to be reduced in numbers and function in vitiligo patients. The exact mechanism for reduced Treg suppressive capacity is unknown. Therefore, we aimed to assess transcript levels of Tregs-associated immunosuppressive genes (GZMB, NRP1, PDCD1, FASLG, and TNFRS18), regulatory molecules of Tregs suppressive function (SERPINB9, ITPR1, and UBASH3A), and Treg-associated transcription factors (GATA2, GATA3, RUNX1, STAT3, and STAT5) in 52 GV patients and 48 controls by real-time PCR (qPCR). We found significantly reduced GZMB, NRP1, SERPINB9, and ITPR1 transcripts in GV Tregs compared to controls (p = 0.03, p = 0.023, p = 0.0045, and p < 0.0001, respectively). There were 0.44-, 0.45-, 0.32-, and 0.54-fold decrease in GZMB, NRP1, SERPINB9, and ITPR1 transcripts in GV Tregs. Additionally, disease activity and severity-based analyses revealed significantly decreased GZMB (p = 0.019 and 0.034), SERPINB9 (p = 0.031 and p = 0.035), and ITPR1 (p = 0.0003 and p = 0.034) transcripts in active vitiligo and severe GV patients' Tregs. Interestingly, we found a positive correlation for ITPR1 with GZMB (r = 0.45, p = 0.0009) and SERPINB9 (r = 0.52, p = 0.001) transcripts in GV Tregs. Moreover, we found positive correlation for percentage Treg mediated suppression of CD4+ and CD8+T cells with ITPR1 (r = 0.54; r = 0.49), GZMB (r = 0.61; r = 0.58), NRP1 (r = 0.55; r = 0.52), and SERPINB9 (r = 0.56; r = 0.48) in GV Tregs. Further, calcium treatment of Tregs resulted into significantly increased ITPR1, SERPINB9, and GZMB transcripts in GV Tregs (p = 0.023, p = 0.0345, p = 0.02). Overall, our results for the first time revealed the crucial role of GZMB, NRP1, SERPINB9, and ITPR1 transcripts in decreased Treg suppressive capacity leading to GV pathogenesis, progression, and severity. In addition, our study highlighted that ITPR1 might be linked with decreased GZMB and NRP1 expression in GV Tregs. Moreover, our study for the first time suggest that increased SERPINB9 transcripts may lead to endogenous granzyme B-mediated Tregs apoptosis, and calcium treatment of Tregs may improve the Treg suppressive capacity. These findings may further aid in development of Treg-based therapeutics for GV.
Melanoma is the deadliest of skin cancers and has a high tendency to metastasize to distant organs. Calcium and metabolic signals contribute to melanoma invasiveness; however, the underlying molecular details are elusive. The MCU complex is a major route for calcium into the mitochondrial matrix but whether MCU affects melanoma pathobiology was not understood. Here, we show that MCUA expression correlates with melanoma patient survival and is decreased in BRAF kinase inhibitor-resistant melanomas. Knockdown (KD) of MCUA suppresses melanoma cell growth and stimulates migration and invasion. In melanoma xenografts, MCUA_KD reduces tumor volumes but promotes lung metastases. Proteomic analyses and protein microarrays identify pathways that link MCUA and melanoma cell phenotype and suggest a major role for redox regulation. Antioxidants enhance melanoma cell migration, while prooxidants diminish the MCUA_KD -induced invasive phenotype. Furthermore, MCUA_KD increases melanoma cell resistance to immunotherapies and ferroptosis. Collectively, we demonstrate that MCUA controls melanoma aggressive behavior and therapeutic sensitivity. Manipulations of mitochondrial calcium and redox homeostasis, in combination with current therapies, should be considered in treating advanced melanoma.
ODF1 is a major protein of the accessory fibres of the mammalian sperm tail. In addition, ODF1 is found in the connecting piece, a complex structure located at the posterior end of the nucleus that connects the sperm head and tail. The tight coupling of the sperm head and tail is critical for the progressive motility of the sperm to reach the oocyte for fertilisation. The depletion of ODF1 by homologous recombination in mice led to male infertility. Although sperm tails were present in the epididymis, no intact spermatozoa were found. Instead, the depletion of ODF1 resulted in sperm decapitation, suggesting that ODF1 is essential for the formation of the coupling apparatus and the tight linkage of the sperm head and tail. However, the development of the linkage complex in the absence of ODF1 has never been investigated. Here, I analysed the fine structure of the developing connecting piece by transmission electron microscopy. I show that the connecting piece develops as in wild-type spermatids. Structural abnormalities were not observed when ODF1 was absent. Thus, ODF1 is dispensable for the development of the connecting piece. However, the decapitation of ODF1-deficient spermatozoa indicates that the heads and tails of the spermatozoa are not linked, so that they separate when force is applied.
The dynamics of neuronal microtubules are essential for brain plasticity. Vesicular transport and synaptic transmission, additionally, requires acetylation of α-tubulin, and aberrant tubulin acetylation and neurobiological deficits are associated. Prolonged exposure to a stressor or consumption of drugs of abuse, like marihuana, lead to neurological changes and psychotic disorders. Here, we studied the effect of psychosocial stress and the administration of cannabinoid receptor type 1 drugs on α-tubulin acetylation in different brain regions of mice. We found significantly decreased tubulin acetylation in the prefrontal cortex in stressed mice. The impact of cannabinoid drugs on stress-induced microtubule disturbance was investigated by administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 and/or antagonist rimonabant. In both, control and stressed mice, the administration of WIN55,212-2 slightly increased the tubulin acetylation in the prefrontal cortex whereas administration of rimonabant acted antagonistically indicating a cannabinoid receptor type 1 mediated effect. The analysis of gene expression in the prefrontal cortex showed a consistent expression of ApoE attributable to either psychosocial stress or administration of the cannabinoid agonist. Additionally, ApoE expression inversely correlated with acetylated tubulin levels when comparing controls and stressed mice treated with WIN55,212-2 whereas rimonabant treatment showed the opposite.
In cancer cells, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1 and PARP2 initiate and regulate DNA repair pathways to protect against DNA damage and cell death caused by radiotherapy or chemotherapy. Radiotherapy and PARP inhibitors (PARPis) have been combined in clinical trials, but their action mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we show that activated by ionizing radiation (IR) generated dsDNA, cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) signaling promoted regulated cell death, specifically ferroptosis, via the activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3)-solute carrier family 7 member 11 axis and the antitumor immune response via the interferon-β-CD8+ T cell pathway. Niraparib, a widely used PARPi, augmented cGAS-mediated ferroptosis and immune activation. In colorectal cancer models, cGAS knockdown (KD) compromised IR-induced ferroptosis via downregulation of ATF3 (key ferroptosis regulator) expression. cGAS depletion reversed IR-induced infiltration of CD8+ T or CD8+GZMB+ T cells in the cGAS KD group. Survival analysis of paired tumor samples before and after standard radiotherapy revealed that high expression levels of cGAS, ATF3, and PTGS2 and high density of CD8+ T cells resulted in a significantly high disease-free survival rate in patients with rectal cancer. Therefore, PARPi treatment increases the cytoplasmic accumulation of dsDNA caused by IR, triggering the cGAS signaling-mediated tumor control in cancer cell lines and mouse xenograft models.
BACKGROUND: Previous assessments of peritumoral inflammatory infiltrate in colorectal cancer (CRC) have focused on the role of CD8+ T lymphocytes. We sought to compare the prognostic value of CD8 with downstream indicators of active immune cell function, specifically granzyme B (GZMB) and CD68 in the tumour microenvironment.METHODS: Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining was performed for CD8, GZMB, CD68 and CD163 on next-generation tissue microarrays (ngTMAs) in a primary cohort (n = 107) and a TNM stage II validation cohort (n = 151). Using digital image analysis, frequency of distinct immune cell types was calculated for tumour proximity (TP) zones with varying radii (10 μm-100 μm) around tumour cells.RESULTS: Associations notably of advanced TNM stage were observed for low density of CD8 (p = 0.002), GZMB (p < 0.001), CD68 (p = 0.034) and CD163 (p = 0.011) in the primary cohort. In the validation cohort only low GZMB (p = 0.036) was associated with pT4 stage. Survival analysis showed strongest prognostic effects in the TP25μm zone at the tumour centre for CD8, GZMB and CD68 (all p < 0.001) in the primary cohort and for CD8 (p = 0.072), GZMB (p = 0.035) and CD68 (p = 0.004) in the validation cohort with inferior prognostic effects observed at the tumour invasive margin. In a multivariate survival analysis, joint analysis of GZMB and CD68 was similarly prognostic to CD8 in the primary cohort (p = 0.007 vs. p = 0.002) and superior to CD8 in the validation cohort (p = 0.005 vs. p = 0.142).CONCLUSION: Combined high expression of GZMB and CD68 within 25 μm to tumour cells is an independent prognostic factor in CRC and of superior prognostic value to the well-established CD8 in TNM stage II cancers. Thus, assessment of antitumoral effect should consider the quality of immune activation in peritumoral inflammatory cells and their actual proximity to tumour cells.
To maintain homeostasis, the body, including the brain, reprograms its metabolism in response to altered nutrition or disease. However, the consequences of these challenges for the energy metabolism of the different brain cell types remain unknown. Here, we generated a proteome atlas of the major central nervous system (CNS) cell types from young and adult mice, after feeding the therapeutically relevant low-carbohydrate, high-fat ketogenic diet (KD) and during neuroinflammation. Under steady-state conditions, CNS cell types prefer distinct modes of energy metabolism. Unexpectedly, the comparison with KD revealed distinct cell type-specific strategies to manage the altered availability of energy metabolites. Astrocytes and neurons but not oligodendrocytes demonstrated metabolic plasticity. Moreover, inflammatory demyelinating disease changed the neuronal metabolic signature in a similar direction as KD. Together, these findings highlight the importance of the metabolic cross-talk between CNS cells and between the periphery and the brain to manage altered nutrition and neurological disease.
Background: Psoriasis is a chronic and immune-mediated skin disorder that currently has no cure. Pyroptosis has been proved to be involved in the pathogenesis and progression of psoriasis. However, the role pyroptosis plays in psoriasis remains elusive. Methods: RNA-sequencing data of psoriasis patients were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, and differentially expressed pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) between psoriasis patients and normal individuals were obtained. A principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted to determine whether PRGs could be used to distinguish the samples. PRG and immune cell correlation was also investigated. Subsequently, a novel diagnostic model comprising PRGs for psoriasis was constructed using a random forest algorithm (ntree = 400). A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to evaluate the classification performance through both internal and external validation. Consensus clustering analysis was used to investigate whether there was a difference in biological functions within PRG-based subtypes. Finally, the expression of the kernel PRGs were validated in vivo by qRT-PCR. Results: We identified a total of 39 PRGs, which could distinguish psoriasis samples from normal samples. The process of T cell CD4 memory activated and mast cells resting were correlated with PRGs. Ten PRGs, IL-1β, AIM2, CASP5, DHX9, CASP4, CYCS, CASP1, GZMB, CHMP2B, and CASP8, were subsequently screened using a random forest diagnostic model. ROC analysis revealed that our model has good diagnostic performance in both internal validation (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.930 [95% CI 0.877-0.984]) and external validation (mean AUC = 0.852). PRG subtypes indicated differences in metabolic processes and the MAPK signaling pathway. Finally, the qRT-PCR results demonstrated the apparent dysregulation of PRGs in psoriasis, especially AIM2 and GZMB. Conclusion: Pyroptosis may play a crucial role in psoriasis and could provide new insights into the diagnosis and underlying mechanisms of psoriasis.
BACKGROUND: Secondary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a life-threatening syndrome associated with infections, tumors and connective tissue disease. However rapid identification of the underlying infectious cause of HLH is challenging because traditional etiological diagnostics are time-consuming and sometimes fail to identify the pathogens. Metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) may be a potential optimal solution, which may help improve the clinical diagnosis of underlying infections in hematological diseases.CASE PRESENTATION: A 28-year-old man presented with a 2-month history of intermittent fever and cytopenia. The HLH was diagnosed based on the manifestations of fever, splenomegaly, anemia, thrombocytopenia, hyperferritinemia, hyperglyceridemia, and elevated IL-2R levels. High-through-put sequencing analysis detected a GZMB mutation. While the initial detection of cultures and smears of tuberculosis was negative, TB infection was eventually identified by mNGS of blood sample. The symptoms rapidly abated during the initial administration of TB.CONCLUSION: The present case proposed that mNGS might be an effective diagnostic tool for diagnosing rare infectious cause of secondary HLH. GZMB mutation was first discovered to be present in secondary HLH.
Pyroptosis, a newly-defined mode of cell death related to inflammation, is closely related to cancers but has not yet been studied in laryngeal carcinoma (LC). We investigated pyroptosis in LC and constructed a prognostic model. Using RNA sequencing data, we identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in LC and normal tissues to construct a prognostic risk model. The model's accuracy and independent prognostic value were evaluated using survival- and receiver operating characteristic (ROC)- curves; and univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses, respectively. Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) data was utilized as a model validation set. Differential analysis revealed 37 DEGs, and consistent clustering showed that pyroptosis-related genes could predict LC prognosis. Six genes (CHMP7, GSDME, GZMB, CASP9, IL6, and NLRP1) were obtained by Lasso Cox regression analysis to construct a prognostic model. The high-risk group had a poor prognosis with areas under the ROC curve at 1-, 3-, and 5-years of 0.619, 0.692, and 0.656, respectively. Univariate and multivariate Cox analyses showed that the risk score was an independent prognostic factor. Enrichment analysis of GO and KEGG pathways revealed that differentially expressed genes may be related to infection, T cell differentiation, immunity, and inflammation. It was further found that the low survival rate of the high-risk group may be related to the significant reduction of immune cell infiltration and immune function. With the bioinformatic method, six genes related to pyroptosis affecting LC prognosis were screened and a prognostic risk model was constructed, which laid a foundation for pyroptosis study in LC.
BACKGROUND: In recent years, a large number of clinical and epidemiological studies have revealed the anti-cancer activity of propranolol in solid tumors, though the underline mechanism is yet to be clarified.METHODS: The proliferation of bladder cancer cells treated with propranolol was detected by MTS assays. In vivo tumor xenograft experiments were used to observe the effect of propranolol on bladder cancer growth in mice. The expression levels of Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE1) was measured by western blot. The frequency of CD8+ T cells and CD4+ T cells were detected via flow cytometry.RESULTS: In this study, propranolol inhibited the expression of NHE1 and sequentially led to a decrease of intracellular pH to 5.88 in MB49 cells and 6.85 in 5637 cells, thereafter, inhibited cell viability and induced apoptosis. Furthermore, propranolol inhibited the growth of bladder cancer in mice xenograft model. Flow cytometry found that the frequency of CD8+ T cells (34.58±2.11 vs. 32.34±0.6, P=0.35) and CD4+ T cells (57.80±2.45 vs. 51.44±0.79, P=0.06) in the spleen did not change compared with the control group, while the expression of IFN-γ, GZMB and T-bet secreted by CD8+ T cells increased respectively (IFN-γ 7.3±0.17 vs. 3.37±0.58, P=0.0017; GZMB 16.66±2.13 vs. 4.53±0.62, P=0.0034; T-bet 3.62±0.35 vs. 1.74±0.26, P=0.0027). Meantime, the expression of FoxP3 on CD4+ T cells decreased both in spleen and tumor tissue (1.53±0.11 vs. 0.91±0.1, P=0.004; 4.52±0.48 vs. 1.76±0.40, P=0.003).CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that propranolol exerted anti-proliferation and pro-apoptosis effects in bladder cancer cell by inhibiting Na+/H+ exchange and activated systemic anti-tumor immune response in vivo.
Histone H1 acts as an essential chromatin component and participates in the formation of higher chromatin structures together with core histones. In addition, H1 also has important functions in physiological processes such as gene expression regulation, DNA repair, and the immune response. In this study, the histone homologous protein Pm-H1.2-like was identified from the transcriptome database of Pagrus major we studied previously. Conservatism of evolution was investigated by sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis. Transcripts of Pm-H1.2-like were detected in P. major tissues. The highest expression level was found in gill and skin tissues. Consistent with the data from the transcriptome database, we observed that the expression of Pm-H1.2-like was rapidly induced in nonspecific cytotoxic cells (NCCs) infected with inactivated Vibrio anguillarum. Gene silencing of Pm-H1.2-like by RNAi significantly suppressed the expression of NK-lysin and GZMB in NCCs at 12 h after pathogen stimulation, but had no significant effect on IFN-γ expression. Next, we obtained the fusion proteins rPm-H1.2-like and rPm-H1.2-like (36-80) through prokaryotic expression. ELISA showed that rPm-H1.2-like bound to oligonucleotide (ODN) in a concentration-dependent manner, while no binding activity of rPm-H1.2-like (36-80) with ODN was observed. This study confirmed that Pm-H1.2-like actively participates in the immune response of NCCs to bacterial infection, deepening the understanding of the immune features of histone H1 in fish.
The embryonic mouse fibroblast cell line NIH3T3 is widely used in life science research, including the study of cell cycle control and primary cilia. Fibroblasts are the most important cell type in connective tissue, as they produce components of the extracellular matrix and determine tissue architecture. However, they are very heterogeneous and consist of subtypes specific to their organ of residence, among others. The NIH3T3 cell line was derived from whole mouse embryos that developed to pre-birth and is therefore most likely composed of different fibroblast subtypes. Furthermore, prolonged proliferation may have influenced their cellular composition. A heterogeneous cell population is unsuitable for any sophisticated research project. We found that the proportion of ciliated cells in the total NIH3T3 cell population was highly variable and asked whether this was a consequence of cellular heterogeneity and what molecular signatures were associated with it. We have established sub-cell lines by clonal expansion of single cells and characterized them morphologically and molecularly. Eventually, a myofibroblast-like and a fibroblast-like cell line were generated that differ in ciliation and proliferation. These homogeneous cell lines are valuable for a more detailed study of their molecular signatures, not least to uncover further the molecular pathways that contribute to the formation of the primary cilium.
Diseases originate at the molecular-genetic layer, manifest through altered biochemical homeostasis, and develop symptoms later. Hence, symptomatic diagnosis is inadequate to explain the underlying molecular-genetic abnormality and individual genomic disparities. The current trends include molecular-genetic information relying on algorithms to recognize the disease subtypes through gene expressions. Despite their disposition toward disease-specific heterogeneity and cross-disease homogeneity, a gap still exists in describing the extent of homogeneity within the heterogeneous subpopulation of different diseases. They are limited to obtaining the holistic sense of the whole genome-based diagnosis resulting in inaccurate diagnosis and subsequent management. Addressing those ambiguities, our proposed framework, ReDisX, introduces a unique classification system for the patients based on their genomic signatures. In this study, it is a scalable machine learning algorithm deployed to re-categorize the patients with rheumatoid arthritis and coronary artery disease. It reveals heterogeneous subpopulations within a disease and homogenous subpopulations across different diseases. Besides, it identifies granzyme B (GZMB) as a subpopulation-differentiation marker that plausibly serves as a prominent indicator for GZMB-targeted drug repurposing. The ReDisX framework offers a novel strategy to redefine disease diagnosis through characterizing personalized genomic signatures. It may rejuvenate the landscape of precision and personalized diagnosis and a clue to drug repurposing.
METHODS: Totally, 24 BALB/c mice were assigned to the AR group, control group, GzmB group, and blank group (each n = 6). The blank group was normally fed without treatment, and the other three groups were treated by ovalbumin (OVA) to induce AR models, in which the GzmB group was intranasally injected with lentiviral vector suppressing GzmB expression during the second immunization, while the control group was given the GzmB-blank vector. The times of AR pathological behaviours such as sneezing and scratching the nose of mice were observed and counted. The nasal lavage fluid of each mouse was acquired, and then, the mouse was executed by cervical dislocation, followed by collection of blood and nasal mucosa tissues. Then, ELISA was adopted for quantifying immunoglobulin E (IgE), interleukin (IL)-4, IL-6, and histamine (HA), and nasal mucosa tissues were treated by HE and TUNEL staining to observing their histopathological manifestations. PCR and western blot (WB) were adopted for quantifying GzmB and miR-378a-3p. Additionally, with NP69 cells, dual luciferase reporter (DLR) assay was carried out for determining the targeting association of GzmB with miR-378a-3p. Another 24 mice were assigned to the AR group, GzmB group, miR-378a-3p group, and GzmB+ miR-378a-3p group (each n = 6). The AR and GzmB groups were treated as above. The miR-378a-3p group was intervened by lentiviral vector suppressing miR-378a-3p, while the GzmB+ miR-378a-3p group was given GzmB and lentiviral vector suppressing miR-378a-3p meantime. A rescue assay was conducted through repeating the above tests.RESULTS: The times of sneezing and rubbing the nose and the levels of IgE, IL-4, IL-6, and HA were similar between the control and AR groups (all P > 0.05), and these items of the two groups were all higher than those of the blank and GzmB groups (all P < 0.05). However, no notable difference was observed in IL-4 and IL-6 levels between the GzmB and blank groups (both P > 0.05), while higher levels of other detection results were found in the former group than in the latter (all P < 0.05). The staining results revealed obvious congestion, oedema, and necrosis structures in the nasal mucosa epithelium of the control and AR groups and also revealed a large number of infiltrating eosinophils and notable increase of apoptotic nasal mucosa epithelial cells. The GzmB group showed notably improved nasal mucosa tissues, and its infiltration and apoptosis of eosinophils were more notable than those of the blank group, but notably weaker than those of the AR and control groups. Additionally, the PCR and WB results revealed similar miR-378a-3p and GzmB levels in nasal mucosa between the control and AR groups (both P > 0.05), and a notable decrease of miR-378a-3p and a notable increase of GzmB in both groups (both P < 0.05). The DLR assay revealed notably suppressed fluorescence activity of GzmB-WT in NP69 cells after transfection of miR-378a-3p mimics (P < 0.05) and notably down regulated GzmB protein after increase of miR-378a-3p (P<0.05). Finally, the rescue assay revealed that downregulating miR-378a-3p aggravated the pathological changes of AR (P < 0.05) and also completely reversed the impacts of inhibiting GzmB on the pathological behaviours of AR mice.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-378a-3p can accelerate the pathological development of AR through targeted inhibition on the release of pro-inflammatory factors such as IgE and HA activated by GzmB, so it is a promising molecular target of AR therapy and offers a novel research direction for the complete cure of AR.
Chronic stress has been reported to be associated with tumor initiation and progression. But the underlying mechanism and the specific role of tumor immunity in this process are still unknown. Herein, we applied the repeated restrain stress model in C57BL/6J mice and found that the tumor growth in stressed mice was accelerated compared with that in control mice. In addition, serotonin, also called 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), in the serum of stressed mice was also elevated. Sertraline, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor used in the clinic, can restore the serum 5-HT level in stressed mice and restrain tumor growth. We further explored the distribution of major immune cells, including B lymphocytes cells, T lymphocytes, natural killer cells, dendritic cells, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) and regulatory T cells (Treg). We found that the infiltration of CD8 + T cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME) decreased significantly in stressed mice. And the extra 5-HT treatment could further decrease the infiltration of CD8 + T cells in the TME. The expression of IFN-γ and Granular enzyme B (GzmB) in CD8 + T cells were also dropped in the stressed mice group, whereas the expression of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) on CD8 + T cells was increased. The T cell deficiency induced by stress can be reversed by sertraline, indicating its promising role in strengthening the efficacy of anti-PDL1/PD-1 immunotherapy. The present study provides new mechanistic insights into the impact of chronic stress on antitumor immunity and implicates a novel combined immunotherapy strategy for cancer patients with chronic stress.
Comment in    Curr Biol. 2022 Oct 24;32(20):R1028-R1029.
There are numerous examples of plant organs or developmental stages that are desiccation-tolerant and can withstand extended periods of severe water loss. One prime example are seeds and pollen of many spermatophytes. However, in some plants, also vegetative organs can be desiccation-tolerant. One example are the tubers of yellow nutsedge (Cyperus esculentus), which also store large amounts of lipids similar to seeds. Interestingly, the closest known relative, purple nutsedge (Cyperus rotundus), generates tubers that do not accumulate oil and are not desiccation-tolerant. We generated nanoLC-MS/MS-based proteomes of yellow nutsedge in five replicates of four stages of tuber development and compared them to the proteomes of roots and leaves, yielding 2257 distinct protein groups. Our data reveal a striking upregulation of hallmark proteins of seeds in the tubers. A deeper comparison to the tuber proteome of the close relative purple nutsedge (C. rotundus) and a previously published proteome of Arabidopsis seeds and seedlings indicates that indeed a seed-like proteome was found in yellow but not purple nutsedge. This was further supported by an analysis of the proteome of a lipid droplet-enriched fraction of yellow nutsedge, which also displayed seed-like characteristics. One reason for the differences between the two nutsedge species might be the expression of certain transcription factors homologous to ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE3, WRINKLED1, and LEAFY COTYLEDON1 that drive gene expression in Arabidopsis seed embryos.
Radiotherapy (RT) is applied to eradicate tumors in the clinic. However, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) exhibits resistance against RT. It is demonstrated that RT directly inhibits tumor growth but which induces type I interferons (IFNs) expression to phosphorylate STATs and increase STATs-downstream PD-L1 levels in the survival tumor cells. Since sorafenib is capable of suppressing STATs, we, therefore, hypothesize that sorafenib suppresses IFNs-mediated radioresistance and PD-L1 in the residual tumor cells and may synergistically enhance RT-mediated reactivation of CD8+ T immunological activity to eradicate HCC cells. We found that combined RT, sorafenib, and PBMCs significantly suppress the colony formation in the HCC cells, whereas CD8+ T cells expressed high granzyme B (GZMB) and perforin (PRF1) in co-cultured with RT-treated HCC cells. We demonstrated RT significantly inhibited HCC cell viability but induced IFNα and IL-6 expression in the RT-treated HCC cells, resulting in immune checkpoint PD-L1 and anti-apoptosis MCL1 and BCL2 overexpression in the non-RT HCC cells. We found that sorafenib decreased RT-PLC5 medium (RT-PLC5-m)-mediated cell growth by suppressing IFNα- and IL-6-mediated STAT1 and STAT3 phosphorylation. Sorafenib also reduced IFNα-mediated PD-L1 levels in HCC cells. Meanwhile, RT-PLC5-m reactivated CD8+ T cells and non-CD8+ PBMCs, resulting in high IFNγ and IL-2 levels in CD8+ T cells, and cytokines IFNα, IFNγ, IL-2, and IL-6 in non-CD8+ PBMCs. Particularly, CD8+ T cells expressed higher GZMB and PRF1 and non-CD8+ PBMCs expressed higher IFNα, IFNγ, IL-2, IL-6, CXCL9, and CXCL10 in co-cultured with RT-treated HCC cells compared to parental cells. Although we demonstrated that sorafenib slightly inhibited RT-mediated GZMB and PRF1 expression in CD8+ T cells, and cytokines levels in non-CD8+ PBMCs. Based on sorafenib significantly suppressed IFNα- and IL-6-mediated radioresistance and PD-L1 expression, we demonstrated that sorafenib synergized RT and immune surveillance for suppressing PLC5 cell viability in vitro. In conclusion, this study revealed that RT induced IFNα and IL-6 expression to phosphorylate STAT1 and STAT3 by autocrine and paracrine effect, leading to radioresistance and PD-L1 overexpression in HCC cells. Sorafenib not only suppressed IFNα- and IL-6-mediated PLC5 cell growth but also inhibited IFNα-mediated PD-L1 expression, synergistically enhancing RT-mediated CD8+ T cell reactivation against HCC cells.
COVID-19 is a viral disease associated with an intense inflammatory response. Macrophage Activation Syndrome (MAS), the complication present in secondary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (sHLH), shares many clinical aspects observed in COVID-19 patients, and investigating the cytolytic function of the responsible cells for the first line of the immune response is important. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded lung tissue samples obtained by post mortem necropsy were accessed for three groups (COVID-19, H1N1, and CONTROL). Polymorphisms in MAS cytolytic pathway (PRF1; STX11; STXBP2; UNC13D and GZMB) were selected and genotyping by TaqMan® assays (Thermo Fisher Scientific, MA, USA) using Real-Time PCR (Applied Biosystems, MA USA). Moreover, immunohistochemistry staining was performed with a monoclonal antibody against perforin, CD8+ and CD57+ proteins. Histopathological analysis showed high perforin tissue expression in the COVID-19 group; CD8+ was high in the H1N1 group and CD57+ in the CONTROL group. An association could be observed in two genes related to the cytolytic pathway (PRF1 rs885822 G/A and STXBP2 rs2303115 G/A). Furthermore, PRF1 rs350947132 was associated with increased immune tissue expression for perforin in the COVID-19 group. The genotype approach could help identify patients that are more susceptible, and for this reason, our results showed that perforin and SNPs in the PRF1 gene can be involved in this critical pathway in the context of COVID-19.
Celiac disease is a common immune-related inflammatory disease of the small intestine caused by gluten in genetically predisposed individuals. This research is a proof-of-concept exercise focused on using Artificial Intelligence (AI) and an autoimmune discovery gene panel to predict and model celiac disease. Conventional bioinformatics, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and several machine learning and neural network techniques were used on a publicly available dataset (GSE164883). Machine learning and deep learning included C5, logistic regression, Bayesian network, discriminant analysis, KNN algorithm, LSVM, random trees, SVM, Tree-AS, XGBoost linear, XGBoost tree, CHAID, Quest, C&R tree, random forest, and neural network (multilayer perceptron). As a result, the gene panel predicted celiac disease with high accuracy (95-100%). Several pathogenic genes were identified, some of the immune checkpoint and immuno-oncology pathways. They included CASP3, CD86, CTLA4, FASLG, GZMB, IFNG, IL15RA, ITGAX, LAG3, MMP3, MUC1, MYD88, PRDM1, RGS1, etc. Among them, B and T lymphocyte associated (BTLA, CD272) was highlighted and validated at the protein level by immunohistochemistry in an independent series of cases. Celiac disease was characterized by high BTLA, expressed by inflammatory cells of the lamina propria. In conclusion, artificial intelligence predicted celiac disease using an autoimmune discovery gene panel.
The intratumor heterogeneity of human papillomavirus (HPV)-related cervical cancer remains poorly defined. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 18 046 individual cells derived from two HPV-related cervical adenosquamous carcinoma samples to analyze the transcriptional heterogeneity of both epithelial and immune constituents, identifying seven epithelial (Epi1-7) and 11 immune subclusters. Based on expression of known cervical cancer markers, Epi1-2 primarily displayed features of adenocarcinoma, whereas Epi3-6 were instead characterized by features of squamous carcinoma. Our analyses also revealed that hypoxia and Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene signaling were highly represented within Epi1; metabolic pathways mediating glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation were enriched in Epi2-4; while Epi5 was enriched in p53 pathway components and features of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Moreover, CD8+ FGFBP2+ T cells and FGFBP2+ natural killer cells were found to display high levels of cytotoxic effectors (GZMA, GZMB, GNLY, and PRF1) and low levels of inhibitory markers (PDCD1, TIGIT, and CTLA4), such that tumor infiltration by these populations was positively associated with survival in a cohort of n = 165 patients with HPV-related cervical cancer from The Cancer Genome Atlas database (p = 0.017 and 0.014, respectively). These results shed new light on the intratumor heterogeneity of HPV-related cervical adenosquamous carcinoma, which will help to refine diagnostic and treatment approaches.
T cells used in immune cell therapy, represented by T cell receptor therapy (TCR-T), are usually activated and proliferated in vitro and are induced to a terminally differentiated phenotype, with limited viability after transfusion back into the body. T cells exhibited a robust proliferative potential and in vivo viability in the early stages of progressive differentiation. In this study, we identified microRNAs that regulate T cell differentiation. After microRNA sequencing of the four subsets: Naïve T cells (TN), stem cell-like memory T cells (TSCM), central memory T cells (TCM）, and effector memory T cells (TEM), miR-150 was identified as the most highly expressed miRNA among the four subsets and was lowly expressed in the TSCM cells. We predicted the target genes of miR-150 miRNA and performed Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. We observed that the target genes of miR-150 were enriched in pathways associated with T-cell differentiation. FOXP1 and RC3H1 were identified as key target genes of miR-150 in the regulation of T-cell function. We examined the effects of miR-150 on the differentiation and function of healthy donor T-cells. We observed that miR-150 overexpression promoted T-cell differentiation to effector T-cells and effector memory T-cells, enhanced apoptosis, inhibited cell proliferation and increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-γ and TNF-α. In addition, the expressions of early differentiation-related genes (ACTN1, CERS6, BCL2, and EOMES), advanced differentiation-related genes (KLRG1), and effector-function-related genes (PRF1 and GZMB) were significantly decreased after overexpression of miR-150. Collectively, our results suggested that miR-150 can promote progressive differentiation of T cells and the downmodulation of miR-150 expression while performing adoptive immunotherapy may inhibit T-cell differentiation and increase the proliferative potential of T cells.
BACKGROUND: Functional genomics uses unbiased systematic genome-wide gene disruption or analyzes natural variations such as gene expression profiles of different tissues from multicellular organisms to link gene functions to particular phenotypes. Functional genomics approaches are of particular importance to identify large sets of genes that are specifically important for a particular biological process beyond known candidate genes, or when the process has not been studied with genetic methods before.RESULTS: Here, we present a large set of genes whose disruption interferes with the function of the odoriferous defensive stink glands of the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum. This gene set is the result of a large-scale systematic phenotypic screen using RNA interference applied in a genome-wide forward genetics manner. In this first-pass screen, 130 genes were identified, of which 69 genes could be confirmed to cause phenotypic changes in the glands upon knock-down, which vary from necrotic tissue and irregular reservoir size to irregular color or separation of the secreted gland compounds. Gene ontology analysis revealed that many of those genes are encoding enzymes (peptidases and cytochromes P450) as well as proteins involved in membrane trafficking with an enrichment in lysosome and mineral absorption pathways. The knock-down of 13 genes caused specifically a strong reduction of para-benzoquinones in the gland reservoirs, suggesting a specific function in the synthesis of these toxic compounds. Only 14 of the 69 confirmed gland genes are differentially overexpressed in stink gland tissue and thus could have been detected in a transcriptome-based analysis. However, only one out of eight genes identified by a transcriptomics approach known to cause phenotypic changes of the glands upon knock-down was recognized by this phenotypic screen, indicating the limitation of such a non-redundant first-pass screen.CONCLUSION: Our results indicate the importance of combining diverse and independent methodologies to identify genes necessary for the function of a certain biological tissue, as the different approaches do not deliver redundant results but rather complement each other. The presented phenotypic screen together with a transcriptomics approach are now providing a set of close to hundred genes important for odoriferous defensive stink gland physiology in beetles.
BACKGROUNDS: Pyroptosis, a newly pattern of specific programmed cell death, has been reported to participate in several cancers. However, the value of pyroptosis in breast cancer (BRCA) is still not clear.METHODS: Herein, we analyzed the data of BRCA from both The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GSEA MSigDB database. Based on the obtained pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs), we searched the interactions by STRING. After that, we performed clustering analysis by ConsensusClusterPlus. The PRGs with significant prognostic value were then screened through univariate cox regression and further evaluate by constructing a risk model by least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression. The immune and sensitivity to drugs were also predicted by comprehensive algorithms. Finally, real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) was performed on two of the screened signature PRGs.RESULTS: A total of 49 PRGs were obtained from public database and 35 of them were significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Cluster analysis was then performed to explore the relationship between DEGs with overall survival. After that, 6 optimal PRGs (GSDMC, IL-18, CHMP3, TP63, GZMB and CHMP6) were screened out to construct a prognostic signature, which divide BRCA patients into two risk groups. Risk scores were then confirmed to be independent prognostic factors in BRCA. Functional enrichment analyses showed that the signature were obviously associated with tumor-related and immune-associated pathways. 79 microenvironmental cells and 11 immune checkpoint genes were found disparate in two groups. Besides, tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion (TIDE) scores revealed that patients with higher risk scores are more sensitive to immune checkpoint blockade treatment. Patients in the low-risk group were more sensitive to Cytarabine, Docetaxel, Gefitinib, Paclitaxel, and Vinblastine. Inversely, patients in the high-risk group were more sensitive to Lapatinib. Finally, we found that, CHMP3 were down-regulated in both BRCA tissues and cell lines, while IL-18 were up-regulated.CONCLUSION: PRGs play important roles in BRCA. Our study fills the gaps of 6 selected PRGs in BRCA, which were worthy for the further study as predict potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
BACKGROUND: The functions of infiltrating CD8+ T cells are often impaired due to tumor cells causing nutrient deprivation in the tumor microenvironment. Thus, the mechanisms of CD8+ T cell dysfunction have become a hot research topic, and there is increased interest on how changes in metabolomics correlate with CD8+ T cell dysfunction.AIM: To investigate whether and how glutamine metabolism affects the function of infiltrating CD8+ T cells in hepatocellular carcinoma.METHODS: Immunohistochemical staining and immunofluorescence were performed on surgically resected liver tissues from patients. Differentially expressed genes in infiltrating CD8+ T cells in hepatocellular carcinoma were detected using RNA sequencing. Activated CD8+ T cells were co-cultured with Huh-7 cells for 3 d. The function and mitochondrial status of CD8+ T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and transmission electron microscopy. Next, CD8+ T cells were treated with the mitochondrial protective and damaging agents. Functional alterations in CD8+ T cells were detected by flow cytometry. Then, complete medium without glutamine was used to culture cells and their functional changes and mitochondrial status were detected.RESULTS: There were a large number of infiltrating PD-1+CD8+ T cells in liver cancer tissues. Next, we co-cultured CD8+ T cells and Huh-7 cells to explore the regulatory effect of hepatoma cells on CD8+ T cells. Flow cytometry results revealed increased PD-1 expression and decreased secretion of perforin (PRF1) and granzyme B (GZMB) by CD8+ T cells in the co-culture group. Meanwhile, JC-1 staining was decreased and the levels of reactive oxygen species and apoptosis were increased in CD8+ T cells of the co-culture group; additionally, the mitochondria of these cells were swollen. When CD8+ T cells were treated with the mitochondrial protective and damaging agents, their function was restored and inhibited, respectively, through the mitochondrial damage and apoptotic pathways. Subsequently, complete medium without glutamine was used to culture cells. As expected, CD8+ T cells showed functional downregulation, mitochondrial damage, and apoptosis.CONCLUSION: Glutamine deprivation impairs the function of infiltrating CD8+ T cells in hepatocellular carcinoma through the mitochondrial damage and apoptotic pathways.
Most methods for phylogenetic tree reconstruction are based on sequence alignments; they infer phylogenies from substitutions that may have occurred at the aligned sequence positions. Gaps in alignments are usually not employed as phylogenetic signal. In this paper, we explore an alignment-free approach that uses insertions and deletions (indels) as an additional source of information for phylogeny inference. For a set of four or more input sequences, we generate so-called quartet blocks of four putative homologous segments each. For pairs of such quartet blocks involving the same four sequences, we compare the distances between the two blocks in these sequences, to obtain hints about indels that may have happened between the blocks since the respective four sequences have evolved from their last common ancestor. A prototype implementation that we call Gap-SpaM is presented to infer phylogenetic trees from these data, using a quartet-tree approach or, alternatively, under the maximum-parsimony paradigm. This approach should not be regarded as an alternative to established methods, but rather as a complementary source of phylogenetic information. Interestingly, however, our software is able to produce phylogenetic trees from putative indels alone that are comparable to trees obtained with existing alignment-free methods.
Programmed cell death receptor ligand 1 (PD-L1)/PD-1 signaling has been exploited to design inhibitors that deliver promising clinical outcome albeit with limited efficacy. Herein, we prepare graphene oxide (GO)-PEI-PEG with low cytotoxicity and long stability and GO-PEI-PEG delivers PD-L1 siRNAs to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells by the endocytosis-lysosome pathway. The functional GO-PEI-PEG/PD-L1 siRNAs decrease PD-L1 and PD-1 abundance, increase pro-inflammation cytokine IFN-γ and TNF-α release, and improve the proliferation activity of Jurkat T cells. Since GO-PEI-PEG targets the mouse liver effectively, the intrahepatic tumors in C57BL/6 mice are treated with GO-PEI-PEG/Pd-l1 siRNAs via the tail vein, resulting in shrinkage of the HCC tumors and boosting the anti-tumor efficacy in combination with oral sorafenib. A single treatment improves the total CD3+ and cytotoxic CD8+ T cell infiltration in the HCC tumor tissues and even spleen and upregulates the expression of Perforin, Gzmb, Ifng, Il-1b and Tnfa in the tumors after the combined treatment. Both the single and combined treatments enhance reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and improved HCC ferroptosis. The results suggest that GO-PEI-PEG delivered PD-L1 siRNAs combined with oral sorafenib can activate the adaptive immunity and tumor ferroptosis and reveal an effective therapy to treat advanced HCC patients.
N-terminal sequences are important sites for post-translational modifications that alter protein localization, activity, and stability. Dipeptidyl peptidase 9 (DPP9) is a serine aminopeptidase with the rare ability to cleave off N-terminal dipeptides with imino acid proline in the second position. Here, we identify the tumor-suppressor BRCA2 as a DPP9 substrate and show this interaction to be induced by DNA damage. We present crystallographic structures documenting intracrystalline enzymatic activity of DPP9, with the N-terminal Met1-Pro2 of a BRCA21-40 peptide captured in its active site. Intriguingly, DPP9-depleted cells are hypersensitive to genotoxic agents and are impaired in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks by homologous recombination. Mechanistically, DPP9 targets BRCA2 for degradation and promotes the formation of RAD51 foci, the downstream function of BRCA2. N-terminal truncation mutants of BRCA2 that mimic a DPP9 product phenocopy reduced BRCA2 stability and rescue RAD51 foci formation in DPP9-deficient cells. Taken together, we present DPP9 as a regulator of BRCA2 stability and propose that by fine-tuning the cellular concentrations of BRCA2, DPP9 alters the BRCA2 interactome, providing a possible explanation for DPP9's role in cancer.
BACKGROUND: Myeloid and lymphoid malignancies associated with chimeric FGFR1 kinases are the hallmark of stem cell leukemia and lymphoma syndrome (SCLL). In all cases, FGFR1 kinase is constitutively phosphoactivated as a result of chromosome translocations, which lead to acquisition of dimerization motifs in the chimeric proteins. Recently, we demonstrated that these chimeric kinases could be cleaved by granzyme B to generate a truncated derivative, tnFGFR1, which localized exclusively into the nucleus and was not phosphorylated.METHODS: Stem cell transduction and transplantation in syngeneic mice was used to assess the transforming ability of tnFGFR1 in bone marrow stem cells, and RPPA and RNA-Seq was used to examine the related signaling pathways and regulated target genes.RESULTS: For the first time, we show that this non-classical truncated form of FGFR1 can independently lead to oncogenic transformation of hematopoietic stem cells in an animal model in vivo. These leukemia cells show a mixed immunophenotype with a B-cell B220 + Igm- profile in the majority of cells and Kit+ in virtually all cells, suggesting a stem cell disease. tnFGFR1, however, does not activate classic FGFR1 downstream signaling pathways but induces a distinct profile of altered gene expression with significant upregulation of transmembrane signaling receptors including FLT3 and KIT. We further show that de novo human AML also express tnFGFR1 which correlates with upregulation of FLT3 and KIT as in mouse leukemia cells. ChIP analysis demonstrates tnFGFR1 occupancy at the Flt3 and Kit promoters, suggesting a direct transcriptional regulation. Cells transformed with tnFGFR1 are insensitive to FGFR1 inhibitors but treatment of these cells with the Quizartinib (AC220) FLT3 inhibitor, suppresses in vitro growth and development of leukemia in vivo. Combined treatment with FGFR1 and FLT3 inhibitors provides increased survival compared to FGFR1 inhibition alone.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates a novel model for transformation of hematopoietic stem cells by chimeric FGFR1 kinases with the combined effects of direct protein activation by the full-length kinases and transcriptional regulation by the truncated nuclear tnFGFR1 derivative, which is associated with GZMB expression levels. Genes significantly upregulated by tnFGFR1 include Flt3 and Kit which promote a leukemia stem cell phenotype. In human AML, tnFGFR1 activation leads to increased FLT3 and KIT expression, and higher FLT3 and GZMB expression levels are associated with an inferior prognosis. These observations provide insights into the relative therapeutic value of targeting FGFR1 and FLT3 in treating AML with this characteristic gene expression profile.
INTRODUCTION: The characteristics of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) are closely related to immunotherapy. Breast cancer can benefit from immunotherapy, and its TIME is still unclear.METHODS: We utilized mass cytometry to explore the immune cell heterogeneity in breast cancer. Double-negative T cells (DNTs) from healthy volunteers (HBs) were enriched in vitro. Flow cytometry was used to detect the cell surface receptors of cancer cells and DNT cells. The correlation between immune checkpoints and the abundance of immune cells or prognosis of breast cancer was analyzed by the TCGA database. The messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of functional genes was performed by quantitative real-time PCR.RESULTS: We found that the frequencies of Granzyme B (GZMB)+ CD8+ T and GZMB+ DNT cells in cancer tissues (CA) of breast cancer were lower than those in blood samples of patients (PB), and the frequencies of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD1)+ CD8+ T and PD1+ DNT cells in CA were higher than those in PB. DNTs from HBs had a cytotoxic effect on MDA-MB-231. LAG3Ab could upregulate the mRNA expression of interferon gamma and perforin by increasing T-BET transcription to enhance the cytotoxicity of DNT cells in vitro.CONCLUSION: Our study revealed the suppressive status of TIME in breast cancer and supported DNT cells had the potential to be applied as a novel adoptive cell therapy for TNBC either alone or combined with LAG3Ab.
PURPOSE: Clinical successes using current T-cell based immunotherapies have been limited in soft tissue sarcomas (STS), while pre-clinical studies have shown evidence of natural killer (NK) cell activity. Since tumor immune infiltration, especially tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, is associated with improved survival in most solid tumors, we sought to evaluate the gene expression profile of tumor and blood NK and T cells, as well as tumor cells, with the goal of identifying potential novel immune targets in STS.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using fluorescence-activated cell sorting, we isolated blood and tumor-infiltrating CD3-CD56+ NK and CD3+ T cells and CD45- viable tumor cells from STS patients undergoing surgery. We then evaluated differential gene expression (DGE) of these purified populations with RNA sequencing analysis. To evaluate survival differences and validate primary DGE results, we also queried The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database to compare outcomes stratified by bulk gene expression.RESULTS: Sorted intra-tumoral CD3+ T cells showed significant upregulation of established activating (CD137) and inhibitory genes (TIM-3) compared to circulating T cells. In contrast, intra-tumoral NK cells did not exhibit upregulation of canonical cytotoxic genes (IFNG, GZMB), but rather significant DGE in mitogen signaling (DUSP4) and metabolic function (SMPD3, SLC7A5). Tumors with higher NK and T cell infiltration exhibited significantly increased expression of the pro-inflammatory receptor TLR4 in sorted CD45- tumor cells. TCGA analysis revealed that tumors with high TLR4 expression (P = 0.03) and low expression of STMN1 involved in microtubule polymerization (P < 0.001) were associated with significantly improved survival.CONCLUSIONS: Unlike T cells, which demonstrate significant DGE consistent with upregulation of both activating and inhibiting receptors in tumor-infiltrating subsets, NK cells appear to have more stable gene expression between blood and tumor subsets, with alterations restricted primarily to metabolic pathways. Increased immune cell infiltration and improved survival were positively correlated with TLR4 expression and inversely correlated with STMN1 expression within tumors, suggesting possible novel therapeutic targets for immunotherapy in STS.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to elucidate the changes and associated mechanisms of circulating CD28- cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) in patients with IgG4-related disease (IgG4-RD).METHODS: Fifty IgG4-RD patients and 15 healthy controls (HCs) were recruited. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated, the levels of circulating CD28- CTLs were detected by flow cytometry, and the proportions of CD127lo or GZMB+CD28- CTL subsets were analyzed in the meantime. Mechanistically, PBMCs isolated from IgG4-RD patients were stimulated with IL-7 in the presence or absence of the JAK inhibitor tofacitinib. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the proliferation of CD28- CTLs and the changes in related subpopulations.RESULTS: Circulating CD4+CD28- CTLs and CD8+CD28- CTLs were significantly increased in IgG4-RD patients compared with HCs, accompanied by an elevation of CD127lo or GZMB+ CTL subsets. The ex vivo culture of PBMCs showed that IL-7 could induce the amplification of CD4+CD28- CTLs and CD8+CD28- CTLs in IgG4-RD. Furthermore, IL-7 promotes the proliferation and functional subset changes of these CD28- CTLs in this disease. The selective JAK inhibitor tofacitinib significantly inhibited the effects of IL-7 on CD4+CD28- CTLs and CD8+CD28- CTLs.CONCLUSION: IL-7 can affect the immune balance of IgG4-RD patients by promoting the expansion and function of CD4+CD28- and CD8+CD28- CTLs in IgG4-RD through the JAK pathway. Blockade of the IL-7 signaling pathway may be a new therapeutic strategy for IgG4-RD.
BACKGROUND: In recent years, the T-cell therapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors toward CTLA-4 and PD-1/PD-L1 axis antibody therapy have acquired encouraging success. However, most of patients were still not benefited with lots of troubles, such as low penetration of tissues/cells, strong immunogenicity and cytokine release syndrome, and long manufacturing process and expensive costs. By contrast, the immune-modulating small molecules possessed natural advantages to overcome these obstacles and might achieve greater success.PURPOSE: Exploring the potent immune-modulating natural small molecules and revealing what kinds of molecules or structures with the immunomodulatory activity against cancers.METHODS: A novel non-cytotoxic T-cell immunomodulating screening model was used to identify the cytotoxic/selective/immunomodulatory bioactivity for 148 natural steroidal saponins. The structure-activity relationships (SARs) research was used to reveal the key groups for immunomodulation/cytotoxicity/selectivity. The negative selection was used to isolate and purify the T-cell. The cell viability assay was used to measure the anti-cancer effect in vitro. The ELISA assay was used to detect the cytokines for IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-12, perforin and granzyme B (GZMB). The western blotting assay was used to research the immunomodulatory mechanism. The siRNA knockdown was used to generate the IFN-γ resistant melanoma cells. The NOG immune-deficient mice were used to evaluate the anti-tumor efficacy in vivo. The peripheral blood samples from 10 cancer patients were used to detect the broad population anti-tumor efficacy.RESULTS: It was reported that the correlation among structures and immunomodulation/ cytotoxicity/selectivity, in which opening ring-F with 26-O-glucopyranosyl, disaccharide and trisaccharide chains at C-3, steric hindrance and polarity of C-22 were key immunomodulatory groups. Moreover, taccaoside A was identified as the most potent candidate against cancer cells, including non-small cell lung cancer, triple negative breast cancer, and the IFN-γ resistant melanoma, partly through enhancing T lymphocyte mTORC1-Blimp-1 signal to secrete GZMB. Besides, 10 patients derived T-cell also would be modulated against cancer cells in vitro. Moreover, the overall survival was great extended (>140 days vs 93 days) with nearly 100% tumor burden disappearance (0 mm3vs 1006 ± 79.5 mm3) in mice.CONCLUSION: This work demonstrated one possibility for this concerned purpose, and identified a potent immune-modulating natural molecule taccaoside A, which might contribute to cancer immunotherapy in future.
The red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum has emerged as an important insect model system for a variety of topics. With respect to studying gene function, it is second only to the vinegar fly D. melanogaster. The RNAi response in T. castaneum is exceptionally strong and systemic, and it appears to target all cell types and processes. Uniquely for emerging model organisms, T. castaneum offers the opportunity of performing time- and cost-efficient large-scale RNAi screening, based on commercially available dsRNAs targeting all genes, which are simply injected into the body cavity. Well established transgenic and genome editing approaches are met by ease of husbandry and a relatively short generation time. Consequently, a number of transgenic tools like UAS/Gal4, Cre/Lox, imaging lines and enhancer trap lines are already available. T. castaneum has been a genetic experimental system for decades and now has become a workhorse for molecular and reverse genetics as well as in vivo imaging. Many aspects of development and general biology are more insect-typical in this beetle compared to D. melanogaster. Thus, studying beetle orthologs of well-described fly genes has allowed macro-evolutionary comparisons in developmental processes such as axis formation, body segmentation, and appendage, head and brain development. Transgenic approaches have opened new ways for in vivo imaging. Moreover, this emerging model system is the first choice for research on processes that are not represented in the fly, or are difficult to study there, e.g. extraembryonic tissues, cryptonephridial organs, stink gland function, or dsRNA-based pesticides.
The number of described contact sites between different subcellular compartments and structures in eukaryotic cells has increased dramatically in recent years and, as such, has substantially reinforced the well-known premise that these kinds of connections are essential for overall cellular organization and the proper functioning of cellular metabolic and signaling pathways. Here, we discuss contact sites involving plant lipid droplets (LDs), including LD-endoplasmic reticulum (ER) connections that mediate the biogenesis of new LDs at the ER, LD-peroxisome connections, that facilitate the degradation of LD-stored triacylglycerols (TAGs), and the more recently discovered LD-plasma membrane connections, which involve at least three novel proteins, but have a yet unknown physiological function(s).
Accurate and non-invasive monitoring of allograft posttransplant is essential for early detection of acute cellular rejection and determines the long-term survival of the graft. Clinically, tissue biopsy is the most effective approach for diagnosing transplant rejection. Nonetheless, the procedure is invasive and potentially triggers organ failure. This work aims to design and apply GzmB-responsive nanosensors (GBRNs) that can readily size-change in graft tissues. Subsequently, we investigate the activity of serine protease granzyme B by generating a direct colorimetric urinary readout for non-invasive detection of transplant rejection in under 1 h. In preclinical heart graft mice models of transplant rejection, GBRNs were cleaved by GzmB and excreted by the kidneys via accurate nanometre-size glomerular filtration. By exploiting the catalytic activity of ultrasmall gold nanoclusters, GBRNs urinalysis promotes ultrasensitive surveillance of rejection episodes with a receiver operator characteristic curve area under the curve of 0.896 as well as a 95% confidence interval of about 0.7701-1.000. Besides, the catalytic activity of gold nanoclusters in urine can be detected at point-of-care testing to predict the immunity responses in mice with insufficient immunosuppressive therapy. Therefore, this non-invasive, sensitive, and quantitative method is a robust and informative approach for rapid and routine monitoring of transplant allografts without invasive biopsy.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has few effective treatments. Immunotherapy, an attractive alternative strategy, remains challenging with the lack of knowledge on the tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) landscape in PDAC. To generate a reference of T-cell subpopulations, we profiled 80,000 T cells from 57 PDAC samples, 22 uninvolved/normal samples, and cultured TIL using single-cell transcriptomic and T-cell receptor analysis. These data revealed 20 cell states and heterogeneous distributions of TIL populations. The CD8+ TIL contained a putative transitional GZMK+ population based on T-cell receptor clonotype sharing, and cell-state trajectory analysis showed similarity to a GZMB+PRF1+ cytotoxic and a CXCL13+ dysfunctional population. Statistical analysis suggested that certain TIL states, such as dysfunctional and inhibitory populations, often occurred together. Finally, analysis of cultured TIL revealed that high-frequency clones from effector populations were preferentially expanded. These data provide a framework for understanding the PDAC TIL landscape for future TIL use in immunotherapy for PDAC.SIGNIFICANCE: To improve the efficacy of immunotherapy in PDAC, there is a great need to understand the PDAC TIL landscape. This study represents a reference of PDAC TIL subpopulations and their relationships and provides a foundation upon which to base future immunotherapeutic efforts. This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 2221.
BACKGROUND: Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is one of the most frequently occurring valvular heart diseases among the aging population. Currently, there is no known pharmacological treatment available to delay or reverse CAVD progression. The regulation of gene expression could contribute to the initiation, progression, and treatment of CAVD. Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) and transcription factors play essential regulatory roles in gene expression in CAVD; thus, further research is urgently needed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The gene-expression profiles of GSE51472 and GSE12644 were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database, and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in each dataset. A protein-protein-interaction (PPI) network of DEGs was then constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins database, and functional modules were analyzed with ClusterOne plugin in Cytoscape. Furthermore, Gene Ontology-functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes-pathway analysis were conducted for each functional module. Most crucially, ncRNAs and transcription factors acting on each functional module were separately identified using the RNAInter and TRRUST databases. The expression of predicted transcription factors and key genes was validated using GSE51472 and GSE12644. Furthermore, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) experiments were performed to validate the differential expression of most promising candidates in human CAVD and control samples.RESULTS: Among 552 DEGs, 383 were upregulated and 169 were downregulated. In the PPI network, 15 functional modules involving 182 genes and proteins were identified. After hypergeometric testing, 45 ncRNAs and 33 transcription factors were obtained. Among the predicted transcription factors, CIITA, HIF1A, JUN, POU2F2, and STAT6 were differentially expressed in both the training and validation sets. In addition, we found that key genes, namely, CD2, CD86, CXCL8, FCGR3B, GZMB, ITGB2, LY86, MMP9, PPBP, and TYROBP were also differentially expressed in both the training and validation sets. Among the most promising candidates, differential expressions of ETS1, JUN, NFKB1, RELA, SP1, STAT1, ANCR, and LOC101927497 were identified via qRT-PCR experiments.CONCLUSION: In this study, we identified functional modules with ncRNAs and transcription factors involved in CAVD pathogenesis. The current results suggest candidate molecules for further research on CAVD.
BACKGROUND: Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) can occur in patients with atherosclerotic disease, with or without plaque rupture. Previous studies have indicated a set of immune responses to plaque rupture. However, the specific circulating immune cell subsets that mediate inflammatory plaque rupture remain elusive.METHODS: Ten AMI patients were enrolled in our study (five with and five without plaque rupture; plaque characteristics were identified by optical coherence tomography). By single-cell RNA sequencing, we analyzed the transcriptomic profile of peripheral blood mononuclear cells.RESULTS: We identified 27 cell clusters among 82,550 cells, including monocytes, T cells, NK cells, B cells, megakaryocytes, and CD34+ cells. Classical and non-classical monocytes constitute the major inflammatory cell types, and pro-inflammatory genes such as CCL5, TLR7, and CX3CR1 were significantly upregulated in patients with plaque rupture, while the neutrophil activation and degranulation genes FPR2, MMP9, and CLEC4D were significantly expressed in the intermediate monocytes derived from patients without plaque rupture. We also found that CD4+ effector T cells may contribute to plaque rupture by producing a range of cytokines and inflammatory-related chemokines, while CD8+ effector T cells express more effector molecules in patients without plaque rupture, such as GZMB, GNLY, and PRF1, which may contribute to the progress of plaque erosion. Additionally, NK and B cells played a significant role in activating inflammatory cells and promoting chemokine production in the plaque rupture. Cell-cell communication elaborated characteristics in signaling pathways dominated by inflammatory activation of classical monocytes in patients with plaque rupture.CONCLUSIONS: Our studies demonstrate that the circulating immune cells of patients with plaque rupture exhibit highly pro-inflammatory characteristics, while plaque erosion is mainly associated with intermediate monocyte amplification, neutrophil activation, and degranulation. These findings may provide novel targets for the precise treatment of patients with AMI.
AIM: This study aims to identify pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs), their functional immune characteristics, and distinct pyroptosis-related clusters in periodontitis.METHODS: Differentially expressed (DE)-PRGs were determined by merging the expression profiles of GSE10334, GSE16134, and PRGs obtained from previous literatures and Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB). Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression was applied to screen the prognostic PRGs and develop a prognostic model. Consensus clustering was applied to determine the pyroptosis-related clusters. Functional analysis and single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) were performed to explore the biological characteristics and immune activities of the clusters. The hub pyroptosis-related modules were defined using weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA).RESULTS: Of the 26 periodontitis-related DE-PRGs, the highest positive relevance was for High-Mobility Group Box 1 (HMGB1) and SR-Related CTD Associated Factor 11 (SCAF11). A 14-PRG-based signature was developed through the LASSO model. In addition, three pyroptosis-related clusters were obtained based on the 14 prognostic PRGs. Caspase 3 (CASP3), Granzyme B (GZMB), Interleukin 1 Alpha (IL1A), IL1Beta (B), IL6, Phospholipase C Gamma 1 (PLCG1) and PYD And CARD Domain Containing (PYCARD) were dysregulated in the three clusters. Distinct biological functions and immune activities, including human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene expression, immune cell infiltration, and immune pathway activities, were identified in the three pyroptosis-related clusters of periodontitis. Furthermore, the pink module associated with endoplasmic stress-related functions was found to be correlated with cluster 2 and was suggested as the hub pyroptosis-related module.CONCLUSION: The study identified 14 key pyroptosis-related genes, three distinct pyroptosis-related clusters, and one pyroptosis-related gene module describing several molecular aspects of pyroptosis in the pathogenesis and immune micro-environment regulation of periodontitis and also highlighted functional heterogeneity in pyroptosis-related mechanisms.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) mediate immune homeostasis, yet also facilitate nuanced immune responses during infection, balancing pathogen control while limiting host inflammation. Recent studies have identified Treg populations in non-lymphoid tissues that are phenotypically distinct from Tregs in lymphoid tissues (LT), including performance of location-dependent roles. Mucosal tissues serve as critical barriers to microbes while performing unique physiologic functions, so we sought to identify distinct phenotypical and functional aspects of mucosal Tregs in the female reproductive tract. In healthy human and mouse vaginal mucosa, we found that Tregs are highly activated compared to blood or LT Tregs. To determine if this phenotype reflects acute activation or a general signature of vaginal tract (VT)-residency, we infected mice with HSV-2 to discover that VT Tregs express granzyme-B (GzmB) and acquire a VT Treg signature distinct from baseline. To determine the mechanisms that drive GzmB expression, we performed ex vivo assays to reveal that a combination of type-I interferons and interleukin-2 is sufficient for GzmB expression. Together, we highlight that VT Tregs are activated at steady state and become further activated in response to infection; thus, they may exert robust control of local immune responses, which could have implications for mucosal vaccine design.
Recent studies demonstrate that immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) increases the chances of the abscopal effect, an anti-tumor effect outside the radiation field in radiation therapy. However, the optimal sequence between radiation and ICB remains unclear. To investigate the impact of sequence of radiation in anti-PD-L1 antibody (P1) therapy on immune microenvironments and antitumor efficacies in local and abscopal tumors, metastatic LM8 osteosarcoma cells were inoculated into both legs of C3H mice. For irradiation, only one side leg was irradiated at 10 Gy. Then mice were divided into four groups: administrated anti-PD-L1 antibody three times (P1 monotherapy), receiving radiation 3 days prior to P1 therapy (P1+pre-Rad), and receiving concurrent radiation with P1 therapy (P1+conc-Rad). Thereafter, tumor immune microenvironment and tumor volume changes were analyzed in irradiated and unirradiated tumors. The P1+pre-Rad regimen increased the proportion of CD8+ programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)+ granzyme B (GzmB)+ reinvigorated T cells and decreased the proportion of CD8+ PD-1+ GzmB- exhausted T cells than P1+conc-Rad regimen in unirradiated tumors. Combination regimens suppressed tumor growth in irradiated tumors compared with that in P1 monotherapy. In both irradiated and unirradiated tumors, significant tumor growth suppression and prolonged overall survival were observed under both combination treatment regimens compared with P1 monotherapy. However, no distinct differences in unirradiated tumor volume and survival were observed between P1+pre-Rad and P1+conc-Rad groups. These results suggest that local irradiation is necessary to improve systemic treatment efficacy in P1 therapy regardless of sequence of local irradiation.
The contribution of the T cell-related inhibitory checkpoint PD-1 to the regulation of NK cell activity is still not clear with contradictory results concerning its expression and role in the modulation of NK cell cytotoxicity. We provide novel key findings on the mechanism involved in the regulation of PD-1 expression on NK cell membrane and its functional consequences for the elimination of cancer cells. In contrast to freshly isolated NK cells from cancer patients, those from healthy donors did not express PD-1 on the cell membrane. However, when healthy NK cells were incubated with tumor target cells, membrane PD-1 expression increased, concurrent with the CD107a surface mobilization. This finding suggested that PD-1 was translocated to the cell membrane during NK cell degranulation after contact with target cells. Indeed, cytosolic PD-1 was expressed in freshly-isolated-NK cells and partly co-localized with CD107a and GzmB, confirming that membrane PD-1 corresponded to a pool of preformed PD-1. Moreover, NK cells that had mobilized PD-1 to the cell membrane presented a significantly reduced anti-tumor activity on PD-L1-expressing-tumor cells in vitro and in vivo, which was partly reversed by using anti-PD-1 blocking antibodies. Our results indicate that NK cells from healthy individuals express cytotoxic granule-associated PD-1, which is rapidly mobilized to the cell membrane after interaction with tumor target cells. This novel finding helps to understand how PD-1 expression is regulated on NK cell membrane and the functional consequences of this expression during the elimination of tumor cells, which will help to design more efficient NK cell-based cancer immunotherapies.
BACKGROUND: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) is an important treatment for breast cancer (BC) patients. However, due to the lack of specific therapeutic targets, only 1/3 of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative patients reach pathological complete response (pCR). Therefore, there is an urgent need to identify novel biomarkers to distinguish and predict NAC sensitive in BC patients.METHODS: The GSE163882 dataset, containing 159 BC patients treated with NAC, was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Patients with pathological complete response (pCR) and those with residual disease (RD) were compared to obtain the differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Functional enrichment analyses were conducted on these DEGs. Then, we intersect the DEGs and immune-related genes to obtain the hub immune biomarkers, and then use the linear fitting model ("glm" package) to construct a prediction model composed of 9 immune biomarkers. Finally, the single sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) algorithm was used to analyze immune cell invasion in BC patients, and the correlation between immune cell content and immune gene expression levels was analyzed.RESULTS: Nine immune-related biomarkers were obtained in the intersection of DEGs and immune-related genes. Compared with RD patients, CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, CXCL13, GZMB, IDO1, and LYZ were highly expressed in pCR patients, while CXCL14 and ESR1 were lowly expressed in pCR patients. After linear fitting of the multi-gene expression model, the area under the curve (AUC) value of the ROC curve diagnosis of pCR patients was 0.844. Immunoinfiltration analysis showed that compared with RD patients, 15 of the 28 immune cell types examined showed high-infiltration in pCR patients, including activated CD8 T cells, effector memory CD8 T cells, and activated CD4 T cells.CONCLUSIONS: This investigation ultimately identified 9 immune-related biomarkers as potential tools for assessing the sensitivity of NAC in HER2-negative BC patients. These biomarkers have great potential for predicting pCR BC patients.
Proximity-dependent biotinylation (PDB) combined with mass spectrometry analysis has established itself as a key technology to study protein-protein interactions in living cells. A widespread approach, BioID, uses an abortive variant of the E. coli BirA biotin protein ligase, a quite bulky enzyme with slow labeling kinetics. To improve PDB versatility and speed, various enzymes have been developed by different approaches. Here we present a small-size engineered enzyme: ultraID. We show its practical use to probe the interactome of Argonaute-2 after a 10 min labeling pulse and expression at physiological levels. Moreover, using ultraID, we provide a membrane-associated interactome of coatomer, the coat protein complex of COPI vesicles. To date, ultraID is the smallest and most efficient biotin ligase available for PDB and offers the possibility of investigating interactomes at a high temporal resolution.
Advances in immunotherapy, including immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), have transformed the standard of care for many types of cancer including melanoma. ICIs have improved the overall outcome of melanoma patients; however, a significant proportion of patients suffer from primary or secondary tumor resistance. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop predictive biomarkers to better select patients for ICI therapy. Numerous biomarkers that predict the response of melanoma to ICIs have been investigated, including biomarker signatures based on genomics or transcriptomics. Most of these predictive biomarkers have not been systematically evaluated across different cohorts to determine the reproducibility of these signatures in metastatic melanoma. We evaluated 28 previously published predictive biomarkers of ICIs based on gene expression signatures in eight previously published studies with available RNA-sequencing data in public repositories. We found that signatures related to IFN-γ-responsive genes, T and B cell markers, and chemokines in the tumor immune microenvironment are generally predictive of response to ICIs in these patients. In addition, we identified that these predictive biomarkers have higher predictive values in on-treatment samples as compared to pretreatment samples in metastatic melanoma. The most frequently overlapping genes among the top 18 predictive signatures were CXCL10, CXCL9, PRF1, RANTES, IFNG, HLA-DRA, GZMB, and CD8A. From gene set enrichment analysis and cell type deconvolution, we estimated that the tumors of responders were enriched with infiltrating cytotoxic T-cells and other immune cells and the upregulation of genes related to interferon-γ signaling. Conversely, the tumors of non-responders were enriched with stromal-related cell types such as fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, as well as enrichment with T helper 17 cell types across all cohorts. In summary, our approach of validating and integrating multi-omics data can help guide future biomarker development in the field of ICIs and serve the quest for a more personalized therapeutic approach for melanoma patients.
Interleukin (IL)-21-producing T peripheral helper (Tph) cells are thought to contribute to extra-follicular B cell activation and play a pathogenic role in autoimmune diseases. In this study, we investigated the relationship between Tph cells and interferons (IFNs) in several autoimmune diseases because our previous study demonstrated that type I IFNs promote the differentiation of IL-21-producing Tph-like cells. The frequency of Tph cells in the blood as well as serum IFN-α2a and IFN-λ1 were markedly elevated in patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) compared to other autoimmune diseases or healthy controls. Notably, the frequency of Tph cells was positively correlated with the SLE disease activity index, serum IFN-α and serum IFN-λ1 in SLE patients. Additionally, we found that type III IFNs (IFN-λ1, IFN-λ2 and IFN-λ3) promote the differentiation of programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)+ CXCR5 -CD4+ T cells and enhance the secretion of IL-21, IFN-γ and CXCL13. IFN-λ1, like IFN-α, up-regulated the mRNA expression of IL21, IFNG, CXCL13, CD244, SLAMF7, GZMB, PRF1, CCR5 and PRDM1, whereas it down-regulated that of CXCR5 and BCL6, reflecting a Tph-related gene expression pattern. IFN-α in combination with IFN-λ1, IFN-λ2 or IFN-λ3 significantly increased the differentiation of PD-1+CXCR5- Tph-like cells and the secretion of Tph-related cytokines as compared with each IFN alone, suggesting a cooperative interaction. From these findings, it is highly probable that type III IFNs in addition to type I IFNs play a key role in the differentiation of Tph cells and that high levels of IFN-α and IFN-λ1 trigger the differentiation and expansion of Tph cells in SLE.
Patients with polymorphic light eruption (PLE) develop lesions upon the first exposure to sun in spring/summer, but lesions usually subside during season due to the natural (or medical) photohardening. However, these lesions tend to reappear the following year and continue to do so in most patients, suggesting the presence of a disease memory. To study the potential role of skin resident memory T cells (Trm), we investigated the functional phenotype of Trm and the expression of IL-15 in PLE. IL-15 is known to drive Trm proliferation and survival. Multiplex immunofluorescence was used to quantify the expression of CD3, CD4, CD8, CD69, CD103, CD49a, CD11b, CD11c, CD68, granzyme B (GzmB), interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), and IL-15 in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded lesional skin samples from PLE patients and healthy skin from control subjects. Unlike the constitutive T cell population in healthy skin, a massive infiltration of T cells in the dermis and epidermis was observed in PLE, and the majority of these belonged to CD8+ T cells which express Trm markers (CD69, CD103, CD49a) and produced cytotoxic effector molecules GzmB and IFN-γ. Higher numbers of CD3+ T cells and CD11b+CD68+ macrophages produced IL-15 in the dermis as compared to healthy skin. The dominant accumulation of cytotoxic Trm cells and increased expression of IL-15 in lesional skin of PLE patients strongly indicates the potential role of skin Trm cells in the disease manifestation and recurrence.
Background: Immunosuppression is an important trigger for infection and a significant cause of death in patients with severe burns. Nevertheless, the prognostic value of immune-related genes remains unclear. This study aimed to identify the biomarkers related to immunosuppression in severe burns. Methods: The gene expression profile and clinical data of 185 burn and 75 healthy samples were obtained from the GEO database. Immune infiltration analysis and gene set variation analysis were utilized to identify the disorder of circulating immune cells. A weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was carried out to select immune-related gene modules. Enrichment analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network were performed to select hub genes. Next, LASSO and logistic regression were utilized to construct the hazard regression model with a survival state. Finally, we investigated the correlation between high- and low-risk patients in total burn surface area (TBSA), age, and inhalation injury. Results: Gene set variation analysis (GSVA) and immune infiltration analysis showed that neutrophils increased and T cells decreased in severe burns. In WGCNA, four modular differently expressed in burns and controls were related to immune cells. Based on PPI and enrichment analysis, 210 immune-related genes were identified, mainly involved in T-cell inhibition and neutrophil activation. In LASSO and logistic regression, we screened out key genes, including LCK, SKAP1 and GZMB, and LY9. In the ROC analysis, the area under the curve (AUC) of key genes was 0.945, indicating that the key genes had excellent diagnostic value. Finally, we discovered that the key genes were related to T cells, and the regression model performed well when accompanied by TBSA and age. Conclusion: We identified LCK, SKAP1, GZMB, and LY9 as good prognostic biomarkers that may play a role in post-burn immunosuppression against T-cell dysfunction and as potential immunotherapeutic targets for transformed T-cell dysfunction.
Gastric cancer is the fifth most common malignancy and the third leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Immunotherapy offers promising new treatment options for gastric cancer patients; however, it is only effective in a limited fraction of patients. In this study, we evaluated the composition of 22 tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in TCGA Stomach Adenocarcinoma (STAD) using deconvolution-based method by analyzing the publicly available bulk tumor RNA-seq data. The patients were classified into high-TIL and low-TIL subtypes based on their immune cell profiles and prognosis outputs. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the two subtypes were identified, and GO/KEGG analysis showed that broad immune genes, such as PD-L1 and PD-1, were highly expressed in the high-TIL subtype. A comprehensive protein-protein interaction (PPI) network centered on DEGs was built, and 16 hub genes of the network were further identified. Based on the hub genes, an elastic model with 11 gene signatures (NKG7, GZMB, IL2RB, CCL5, CD8A, IDO1, MYH1, GNLY, CXCL11, GBP5 and PRF1) was developed to predict the high-TIL subtype. In summary, our findings showed that the compositions of TILs within the tumor immune microenvironment of stomach cancer patients are highly heterogeneous, and the profiles of TILs have the potential to be predictive markers of patients' responses and overall survival outcomes.
BACKGROUND A keloid is a pathological scar hyperplasia that is affected by genetic and environmental factors. Although the involvement of cytotoxic granzyme B in keloids has been recognized, there is almost no research on granzyme B (GZMB) gene polymorphisms and keloids. This study aimed to explore the relationship between genetic polymorphisms of GZMB and postsurgical keloid susceptibility in the Han Chinese population. MATERIAL AND METHODS A total of 3078 participants, including 990 patients with postsurgical keloids and 2088 controls without postsurgical keloids, were enrolled. We selected 15 common DNA variants in the GZMB gene for analysis. Associations were analyzed in both single marker-based and haplotype-based methods. The Genotype-Tissue Expression database was used to examine the biological significance of the targeted single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). RESULTS SNP rs8192917 was found to be associated with the susceptibility of keloids (t statistic=4.82, P=1.47×10⁻⁶). An increased risk of keloids was significantly associated with the minor allele (C allele) of rs8192917 (odds ratio=1.33; 95% CI=1.18-1.49], P=1.47×10⁻⁶). In addition, a significant association was reported for genotypes of rs8192917 and clinical severity of keloids (χ²=10.61, P=0.03). CONCLUSIONS The results suggested there are significant associations between common genetic variants in GZMB and the susceptibility of postsurgical keloids in the Chinese Han population. These genetic polymorphisms were also related with the severity of postsurgical keloid symptoms in participants with keloids. The current study can contribute to future etiological and clinical research of keloids.
BACKGROUND: Bladder cancer (BCa) shows its potential immunogenity in current immune-checkpoint inhibitor related immunotherapies. However, its therapeutic effects are improvable and could be affected by tumor immune microenvironment. Hence it is interesting to find some more prognostic indicators for BCa patients concerning immunotherapies.METHODS: In the present study, we retrospect 129 muscle-invasive BCa (MIBC) patients with radical cystectomy in Shanghai General Hospital during 2007 to 2018. Based on the results of proteomics sequencing from 9 pairs of MIBC tissue from Shanghai General Hospital, we focused on 13 immune-related differential expression proteins and their related genes. An immune-related prognostic signature (IRPS) was constructed according to Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset. The IRPS was verified in ArrayExpress (E-MTAB-4321) cohort and Shanghai General Hospital (General) cohort, separately. A total of 1010 BCa patients were involved in the study, including 405 BCa patients in TCGA cohort, 476 BCa patients in E-MTAB-4321 cohort and 129 MIBC patients in General cohort.RESULT: It can be indicated that high IRPS score was related to poor 5-year overall survival and disease-free survival. The IRPS score was also evaluated its immune infiltration. We found that the IRPS score was adversely associated with GZMB, IFN-γ, PD-1, PD-L1. Additionally, higher IRPS score was significantly associated with more M2 macrophage and resting mast cell infiltration.CONCLUSION: The study revealed a novel BCa prognostic signature based on IRPS score, which may be useful for BCa immunotherapies.
T follicular helper (Tfh) cells and T peripheral helper (Tph) cells produce interleukin (IL)-21 and are thought to contribute to follicular and extra-follicular B-cell activation, respectively, in autoimmune diseases. It is known that programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)-positive CXCR5+ Tfh-like cells are differentiated from human naive CD4+ T cells by IL-12 plus transforming growth factor (TGF)-β. However, it remains unclear what cytokines are required for Tph differentiation. In this study, we found that interferon (IFN)-α and IFN-β reduce the frequency of Tfh-like cells under the IL-12 plus TGF-β condition, whereas they promote generation of PD-1+CXCR5-CD4+ T cells and secretion of IL-21, IFN-γ and CXCL13. Intracellular cytokine staining and T-cell-B-cell co-culture studies indicated that IFN-α promotes generation of IL-21+IFN-γ +CXCR5-CD4+ T cells thereby enhancing B-cell helper function. By IFN-α treatment, the mRNA levels of IL21, IFNG, CXCL13, CD244, SLAMF7, GZMB and PRDM1 were significantly up-regulated but BCL6 mRNA expression was down-regulated, suggesting a Tph-related gene expression pattern. On the other hand, IL-2-neutralization increased mRNA levels of IL21, CXCL13 and CXCR5, retained BCL6, but showed no clear effect on IFNG or PRDM1. RNA sequencing analyses revealed that PD-1hiCXCR5-CD4+ T cells prepared from in vitro culture show a Tph-related gene expression pattern similar with that of PD-1hiCXCR5- Tph cells obtained from the blood of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. From our findings, it is highly probable that type I IFNs play a key role in differentiation of Tph cells and trigger Tph cell expansion in autoimmune diseases.
The bacterial second messenger c-di-AMP controls essential cellular processes, including potassium and osmolyte homeostasis. This makes synthesizing enzymes and components involved in c-di-AMP signal transduction intriguing as potential targets for drug development. The c-di-AMP receptor protein DarB of Bacillus subtilis binds the Rel protein and triggers the Rel-dependent stringent response to stress conditions; however, the structural basis for this trigger is unclear. Here, we report crystal structures of DarB in the ligand-free state and of DarB complexed with c-di-AMP, 3'3'-cGAMP, and AMP. We show that DarB forms a homodimer with a parallel, head-to-head assembly of the monomers. We also confirm the DarB dimer binds two cyclic dinucleotide molecules or two AMP molecules; only one adenine of bound c-di-AMP is specifically recognized by DarB, while the second protrudes out of the donut-shaped protein. This enables DarB to bind also 3'3'-cGAMP, as only the adenine fits in the active site. In absence of c-di-AMP, DarB binds to Rel and stimulates (p)ppGpp synthesis, whereas the presence of c-di-AMP abolishes this interaction. Furthermore, the DarB crystal structures reveal no conformational changes upon c-di-AMP binding, leading us to conclude the regulatory function of DarB on Rel must be controlled directly by the bound c-di-AMP. We thus derived a structural model of the DarB-Rel complex via in silico docking, which was validated with mass spectrometric analysis of the chemically crosslinked DarB-Rel complex and mutagenesis studies. We suggest, based on the predicted complex structure, a mechanism of stringent response regulation by c-di-AMP.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) exhibits resistance to conventional treatments due to the presence of cancer stem cells (CSCs), causing postsurgical relapse and a dismal prognosis. Umbilical cord blood natural killer (UCB-NK) cell-based immunotherapy represents a promising strategy for cancer treatment. However, its therapeutic efficacy is greatly restrained by downregulation of the NK cell activation ligand MHC class I-related chain A/B (MICA/B) and autophagy-mediated degradation of NK cell-derived granzyme B (GZMB) in CSCs. Herein, it is demonstrated that suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) epigenetically downregulates let-7e-5p and miR-615-3p to increase MICA/B expression and that 3-methyl adenine (3MA) inhibits autophagy-mediated GZMB degradation, thereby sensitizing breast CSCs to UCB-NK cells. Then, an injectable hydrogel is designed to codeliver SAHA and 3MA to enhance UCB-NK cell infusion efficacy in TNBC. The hydrogel precursors can be smoothly injected into the tumor resection bed and form a stable gel in situ, allowing for a pH-sensitive sustained release of SAHA and 3MA. Moreover, UCB-NK cell infusion in combination with the hydrogel efficiently controls postsurgical relapse of TNBC. In addition, the hydrogel exhibits good hemostasis and wound-healing functions. Therefore, the work provides proof of concept that an injectable epigenetic autophagic modulatory hydrogel augments UCB-NK cell therapy to combat postsurgical relapse of TNBC.
T cell-derived pro-inflammatory cytokines are a major driver of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis. Although these cytokines have traditionally been attributed to CD4 T cells, we have found that CD8 T cells are notably abundant in synovium and make more interferon (IFN)-γ and nearly as much tumor necrosis factor (TNF) as their CD4 T cell counterparts. Furthermore, using unbiased high-dimensional single-cell RNA-seq and flow cytometric data, we found that the vast majority of synovial tissue and synovial fluid CD8 T cells belong to an effector CD8 T cell population characterized by high expression of granzyme K (GzmK) and low expression of granzyme B (GzmB) and perforin. Functional experiments demonstrate that these GzmK+ GzmB+ CD8 T cells are major cytokine producers with low cytotoxic potential. Using T cell receptor repertoire data, we found that CD8 GzmK+ GzmB+ T cells are clonally expanded in synovial tissues and maintain their granzyme expression and overall cell state in blood, suggesting that they are enriched in tissue but also circulate. Using GzmK and GzmB signatures, we found that GzmK-expressing CD8 T cells were also the major CD8 T cell population in the gut, kidney, and coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, suggesting that they form a core population of tissue-associated T cells across diseases and human tissues. We term this population tissue-enriched expressing GzmK or TteK CD8 cells. Armed to produce cytokines in response to both antigen-dependent and antigen-independent stimuli, CD8 TteK cells have the potential to drive inflammation.
Erratum in    J Virol. 2023 Feb 28;97(2):e0008023.
Heterologous protein expression is an important method for analysing cellular functions of proteins, in genetic circuit engineering and in overexpressing proteins for biopharmaceutical applications and structural biology research. The degeneracy of the genetic code, which enables a single protein to be encoded by a multitude of synonymous gene sequences, plays an important role in regulating protein expression, but substantial uncertainty exists concerning the details of this phenomenon. Here we analyse the influence of a profiled codon usage adaptation approach on protein expression levels in the eukaryotic model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We selected green fluorescent protein (GFP) and human α-synuclein (αSyn) as representatives for stable and intrinsically disordered proteins and representing a benchmark and a challenging test case. A new approach was implemented to design typical genes resembling the codon usage of any subset of endogenous genes. Using this approach, synthetic genes for GFP and αSyn were generated, heterologously expressed and evaluated in yeast. We demonstrate that GFP is expressed at high levels, and that the toxic αSyn can be adapted to endogenous, low-level expression. The new software is publicly available as a web-application for performing host-specific protein adaptations to a set of the most commonly used model organisms ( https://odysseus.motorprotein.de ).
Erratum for    Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2022 Dec;71(12):2881-2898.
BACKGROUND: The clinical development of immune checkpoint-targeted immunotherapies has been disappointing so far in paediatric solid tumours. However, as opposed to adults, very little is known about the immune contexture of paediatric malignancies.METHODS: We investigated by gene expression and immunohistochemistry (IHC) the immune microenvironment of five major paediatric cancers: Ewing sarcoma (ES), osteosarcoma (OS), rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), medulloblastoma (MB) and neuroblastoma (NB; 20 cases each; n = 100 samples total), and correlated them with overall survival.RESULTS: NB and RMS tumours had high immune cell gene expression values and high T-cell counts but were low for antigen processing cell (APC) genes. OS and ES tumours showed low levels of T-cells but the highest levels of APC genes. OS had the highest levels of macrophages (CSF1R, CD163 and CD68), whereas ES had the lowest. MB appeared as immune deserts. Tregs (FOXP3 staining) were higher in both RMS and OS. Most tumours scored negative for PD-L1 in tumour and immune cells, with only 11 of 100 samples positive for PD-L1 staining. PD-L1 and OX40 levels were generally low across all five indications. Interestingly, NB had comparable levels of CD8 by IHC and by gene expression to adult tumours. However, by gene expression, these tumours were low for T-cell cytotoxic molecules GZMB, GZMA and PRF1. Surprisingly, the lower the level of tumour infiltrative CD8 T-cells, the better the prognosis was in NB, RMS and ES. Gene expression analyses showed that MYCN-amplified NB have higher amounts of immune suppressive cells such as macrophages, myeloid-derived suppressor cells and Tregs, whereas the non-MYCN-amplified tumours were more infiltrated and had higher expression levels of Teff.CONCLUSIONS: Our results describe the quality and quantity of immune cells across five major paediatric cancers and provide some key features differentiating these tumours from adult tumour types. These findings explain why anti-PD(L)1 might not have had single agent success in paediatric cancers. These results provides the rationale for the development of biologically stratified and personalised immunotherapy strategies in children with relapsing/refractory cancers.
BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) has a high incidence rate, invasive growth, and easy recurrence, and the current therapeutic effect is less than satisfying. Pyroptosis plays an important role in morbidity and progress of GBM. Meanwhile, the tumor microenvironment (TME) is involved in the progress and treatment tolerance of GBM. In the present study, we analyzed prognosis model, immunocyte infiltration characterization, and competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network of GBM on the basis of pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs).METHODS: The transcriptome and clinical data of 155 patients with GBM and 120 normal subjects were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx). Lasso (Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator) Cox expression analysis was used in predicting prognostic markers, and its predictive ability was tested using a nomogram. A prognostic risk score formula was constructed, and CIBERSORT, ssGSEA algorithm, Tumor IMmune Estimation Resource (TIMER), and TISIDB database were used in evaluating the immunocyte infiltration characterization and tumor immune response of differential risk samples. A ceRNA network was constructed with Starbase, mirtarbase, and lncbase, and the mechanism of this regulatory axis was explored using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA).RESULTS: Five PRGs (CASP3, NLRP2, TP63, GZMB, and CASP9) were identified as the independent prognostic biomarkers of GBM. Prognostic risk score formula analysis showed that the low-risk group had obvious survival advantage compared with the high-risk group, and significant differences in immunocyte infiltration and immune related function score were found. In addition, a ceRNA network of messenger RNA (CASP3, TP63)-microRNA (hsa-miR-519c-5p)-long noncoding RNA (GABPB1-AS1) was established. GSEA analysis showed that the regulatory axis played a considerable role in the extracellular matrix (ECM) and immune inflammatory response.CONCLUSIONS: Pyroptosis and TME-related independent prognostic markers were screened in this study, and a prognosis risk score formula was established for the first time according to the prognosis PRGs. TME immunocyte infiltration characterization and immune response were assessed using ssGSEA, CIBERSORT algorithm, TIMER, and TISIDB database. Besides a ceRNA network was built up. This study not only laid foundations for further exploring pyroptosis and TME in improving prognosis of GBM, but also provided a new idea for more effective guidance on clinical immunotherapy to patients and developing new immunotherapeutic drugs.
The MDM2 oncoprotein antagonizes the tumor suppressor p53 by physical interaction and ubiquitination. However, it also sustains the progression of DNA replication forks, even in the absence of functional p53. Here, we show that MDM2 binds, inhibits, ubiquitinates, and destabilizes poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1). When cellular MDM2 levels are increased, this leads to accelerated progression of DNA replication forks, much like pharmacological inhibition of PARP1. Conversely, overexpressed PARP1 restores normal fork progression despite elevated MDM2. Strikingly, MDM2 profoundly reduces the frequency of fork reversal, revealed as four-way junctions through electron microscopy. Depletion of RECQ1 or the primase/polymerase (PRIMPOL) reverses the MDM2-mediated acceleration of the nascent DNA elongation rate. MDM2 also increases the occurrence of micronuclei, and it exacerbates camptothecin-induced cell death. In conclusion, high MDM2 levels phenocopy PARP inhibition in modulation of fork restart, representing a potential vulnerability of cancer cells.
The diversity of livestock coat color results from human positive selection and is an indispensable part of breed registration. As an important biodiversity resource, Asiatic wild ass has many special characteristics, including the most visualized feature, its yellowish-brown coat color, and excellent adaptation. To explore the genetic mechanisms of phenotypic characteristics in Asiatic wild ass and its hybrids, we resequenced the whole genome of one Mongolian Kulan (a subspecies of Asiatic wild ass) and 29 Kulan hybrids (Mongolian Kulan ♂×Xinjiang♀), and the ancestor composition indicated the true lineage of the hybrids. XP-EHH (Cross Population Extended Haplotype Homozygosity), θπ-ratio (Nucleotide Diversity Ratio), CLR (Composite Likelihood Ratio) and θπ (Nucleotide Diversity) methods were used to detect the candidate regions of positive selection in Asiatic wild ass and its hybrids. Several immune genes (DEFA1, DEFA5, DEFA7, GIMAP4, GIMAP1, IGLC1, IGLL5, GZMB and HLA) were observed by the CLR and θπ methods. XP-EHH and θπ-ratio revealed that these genes are potentially responsible for coat color (KITLG) and meat quality traits (PDE1B and MYLK2). Furthermore, the heatmap was able to show the clear difference in the haplotype of the KITLG gene between the Kulan hybrids and Asiatic wild ass group and the Guanzhong black donkey group, which is a powerful demonstration of the key role of KITLG in donkey color. Therefore, our study may provide new insights into the genetic basis of coat color, meat quality traits and immunity of Asiatic wild ass and its hybrids.
BACKGROUND: In mammals, transitioning from sole milk uptake to the intake of solid feed results in dramatic developmental changes in intestinal function and immunological status. In fact, weaning stress is often accompanied by intestinal inflammatory processes. To develop effective intervention strategies, it is necessary to characterize the developmental pattern and immune response that occurs on weaning, as we have done in this study for piglets.RESULTS: To comprehensively delineate cell heterogeneity in ileum tissues and the underlying mechanisms in weaning-induced intestinal inflammation of piglets, we have analyzed the transcriptomes of 42,149 cells from ileum mucosa of normally suckling and post-weaned piglets. There were 31 cell subtypes including epithelial, stromal, and immune cells. A bifurcating trajectory was inferred to separate secretory and absorptive lineages. Integrated cross-species datasets showed well-conserved cellular architectures and transcription signatures between human and pig. Comparative analyses of cellular components, cell-cell communications, and molecular states revealed that T cell subpopulations were significantly altered in weaned piglets. We found that T helper (Th) 17 functional plasticity across changes in the cytokine milieu and the enrichment of granzyme B (GZMB)-expressing cytotoxic T cells potentially exacerbate mucosal inflammation via mitochondrial dysfunction in epithelial cells.CONCLUSIONS: Our work has elucidated the single-cell molecular characteristics of the piglet ileum before and after weaning. We have provided an atlas that portrays the landscape of the intestinal pathophysiological inflammatory process associated with weaning, finding a level of conservation between human and pig that support the use of piglets as a model for human infants.
BACKGROUND: Cervical squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC), caused by the infection of high-risk human papillomavirus, is one of the most common malignancies in women worldwide.METHODS: RNA expression data, including those from the Cancer Genome Atlas, Gene Expression Omnibus, and Genotype-Tissue Expression databases, were used to identify the expression of RNAs in normal and tumor tissue. Correlation analysis was performed to identify the immune-related long noncoding RNAs (IRLs) and hypoxia-related genes (IRHs) that can influence the activity of the immune system. Prognosis models of immune-related RNAs (IRRs) were used to construct a coexpression network of the immune system. We identified the role of IRRs in immunotherapy by correlation analysis with immune checkpoint genes (ICGs). We then validated the expression data by integrating two single-cell sequencing data sets of CSCC to identify the key immune features.RESULTS: In total, six immune-related gene (IRG), four IRL, and five IRH signatures that can significantly influence the characteristics of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) were selected using machine learning methods. The expression level of ICGs was significantly upregulated in GZMB+ CD8+ T-cells and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in tumor tissues. TGFBI+ TAMs are a kind of blood-derived monocyte-derived M0-like TAM linked to hypoxia and a poor prognosis. IFI30+ M1-like TAMs participate in the process of immune-regulation and showed a role in the promotion of CD8+ T-cells and Type 1 T helper (Th1)/Th2 cells in the coexpression network, together with several IRLs, IRGs, and ICGs.CONCLUSIONS: CD16+ monocyte-derived IFI30+ TAMs participated in our coexpression network to regulate the TIME, showing the potential to be a novel immunotherapy target. The enrichment of M0-like TAMs was associated with a worse prognosis in the high-risk score group with IRH signatures. Remarkably, M0-like TAMs in tumor tissues overexpressed TGFBI and were associated with several well-known tumor-proliferation pathways.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is an immune-mediated inflammatory disorder that primarily affects the axial skeleton, especially the sacroiliac joints and spine. This results in chronic back pain and, in extreme cases, ankylosis of the spine. Despite its debilitating effects, the pathogenesis of AS remains to be further elucidated. This study used single cell CITE-seq technology to analyze peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in AS and in healthy controls. We identified a number of molecular features associated with AS. CD52 was found to be overexpressed in both RNA and surface protein expression across several cell types in patients with AS. CD16+ monocytes overexpressed TNFSF10 and IL-18Rα in AS, while CD8+ TEM cells and natural killer cells overexpressed genes linked with cytotoxicity, including GZMH, GZMB, and NKG7. Tregs underexpressed CD39 in AS, suggesting reduced functionality. We identified an overrepresented NK cell subset in AS that overexpressed CD16, CD161, and CD38, as well as cytotoxic genes and pathways. Finally, we developed machine learning models derived from CITE-seq data for the classification of AS and achieved an Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic (AUROC) curve of > 0.95. In summary, CITE-seq identification of AS-associated genes and surface proteins in specific cell subsets informs our understanding of pathogenesis and potential new therapeutic targets, while providing new approaches for diagnosis via machine learning.
Genome comparison between the maize pathogens Ustilago maydis and Sporisorium reilianum revealed a large diversity region (19-1) containing nearly 30 effector gene candidates, whose deletion severely hampers virulence of both fungi. Dissection of the S. reilianum gene cluster resulted in the identification of one major contributor to virulence, virulence-associated gene 2 (vag2; sr10050). Quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) experiments revealed high expression of vag2 during biotrophic growth of S. reilianum. Using the yeast secretion trap assay, we confirmed the existence of a functional signal peptide allowing protein secretion via the conventional secretory pathway. We identified the cytoplasmic maize chorismate mutase ZmCM2 by yeast two-hybrid screening as a possible interaction partner of Vag2. Interaction of the two proteins in planta was confirmed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation. qRT-PCR experiments revealed vag2-dependent downregulation of salicylic acid (SA)-induced genes, which correlated with higher SA levels in plant tissues colonized by Δvag2 deletion strains relative to S. reilianum wildtype strains. Metabolite analysis suggested rewiring of pathogen-induced SA biosynthesis by preferential conversion of the SA precursor chorismate into the aromatic amino acid precursor prephenate by ZmCM2 in the presence of Vag2. Possibly, the binding of Vag2 to ZmCM2 inhibits the back reaction of the ZmCM2-catalyzed interconversion of chorismate and prephenate, thus contributing to fungal virulence by lowering the plant SA-induced defenses.
Intratumoral injection of various effector cells combined with oncolytic adenovirus expressing antitumor cytokines exert an effective antitumor immune effect by oncolysis and altering the tumor microenvironment. However, this combination therapy had certain limitations. When used in high concentrations, effector cells and oncolytic viruses can spread rapidly to surrounding non-target tissues. And because both therapies used in combination are immunogenic and exhibit shorter biological activity, multiple injections were required to attain an adequate therapeutic index. To overcome these drawbacks, we encapsulated gelatin-based hydrogel capable of co-deliver oncolytic adenovirus armed with IL12 and IL15 (CRAd-IL12-IL15) and CIK cells for enhancing and prolonging the antitumor effects of both therapies after a single intratumoral injection. The injectable and biodegradable hydrogel reduced the dispersion of high-dose oncolytic adenovirus and CIK cells from the injection site to the liver and other non-target tissues. In this study, a novel oncolytic adenoviral vector CRAd-IL12-IL15 was constructed to verify the cytokine expression and oncolytic ability, which can upregulate the expression levels of Bcl-2, Cish and Gzmb in tumor cells. The CRAd-IL12-IL15 + CIKs/gelatin treatment maintained sustained release of CRAd-IL12-IL15 and active CIK cells over a longer period of time, attenuating the antiviral immune response against adenovirus. In conclusion, the results suggested that hydrogel-mediated co-delivery of CRAd-IL12-IL15 and CIK cells might be a an approach to overcome limitations. Both treatments could be effectively retained in tumor tissue and sustained to induce potent anti-tumor immune responses with a single administration.
The epidermal growth factor receptor variant III (EGFRvIII) has been investigated as a therapeutic target for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy in glioblastoma. Earlier research demonstrated that phenotypic and genotypic characteristics in T cells and CAR T product predicted therapeutic success in hematologic malignancies, to date no determinants for clinical response in solid tumors have been identified. We analyzed apheresis and infusion products from the first-in-human trial of EGFRvIII-directed CAR T for recurrent glioblastoma (NCT02209376) by flow cytometry. Clinical response was quantified via engraftment in peripheral circulation and progression-free survival (PFS), as determined by the time from CAR T infusion to first radiographic evidence of progression. The CD4+CAR T cell population in patient infusion products demonstrated PD1 expression which positively correlated with AUC engraftment and PFS. On immune checkpoint inhibitor analysis, CTLA-4, TIM3, and LAG3 did not exhibit significant associations with engraftment or PFS. The frequencies of PD1+GZMB+ and PD1+HLA-DR+ CAR T cells in the CD4+ infusion products were directly proportional to AUC and PFS. No significant associations were observed within the apheresis products. In summary, PD1 in CAR T infusion products predicted peripheral engraftment and PFS in recurrent glioblastoma.
Author information:(1)School of Medicine, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212013, China.(2)School of Medicine, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212013, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: zhuwei@ujs.edu.cn.
Comment in    Am J Transplant. 2022 Dec;22(12):3180-3181.    Am J Transplant. 2022 Dec;22(12):3182-3183.
Cervical cancer (CC) is one of the most common malignant tumors of the female reproductive system. And the immune system disorder in patients results in an increasing incidence rate and mortality rate. Pyroptosis is an immune system-related programmed cell death pathway that produces systemic inflammation by releasing pro-inflammatory intracellular components. However, the diagnostic significance of pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) in CC is still unclear. Therefore, we identified 52 PRGs from the TCGA database and screened three Differentially Expressed Pyroptosis-Related Genes (DEPRGs) in the prognosis of cervical cancer: CHMP4C, GZMB, TNF. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis and multivariate COX regression analysis were then used to construct a gene panel based on the three prognostic DEPRGs. The patients were divided into high-and low-risk groups based on the median risk score of the panel. According to the Kaplan-Meier curve, there was a substantial difference in survival rates between the two groups, with the high-risk group's survival rate being significantly lower than the low-risk group's. The PCA and t-SNE analyses revealed that the panel was able to differentiate patients into high-and low-risk groups. The area under the ROC curve (AUC) shows that the prognostic panel has high sensitivity and specificity. The risk score could then be employed as an independent prognostic factor using univariate and multivariate COX regression analyses paired with clinical data. The analyses of GO and KEGG functional enrichment of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the high-and low-risk groups revealed that these genes were primarily engaged in immune response and inflammatory cell chemotaxis. To illustrate immune cell infiltration in CC patients further, we used ssGSEA to compare immune-related cells and immune pathway activation between the high-and low-risk groups. The link between three prognostic DEPRGs and immune-related cells was still being discussed after evaluating immune cell infiltration in the TCGA cohort with "CIBERSORT." In addition, the GEPIA database and qRT-PCR analysis were used to verify the expression levels of prognostic DEPRGs. In conclusion, PRGs are critical in tumor immunity and can be utilized to predict the prognosis of CC.
BACKGROUND: The relationship between infection and tumors has attracted increasing attention. Trichoderma spp. are often isolated from tumors. However, their potential role remains unclear. We recently reported the isolation of Trichoderma longibrachiatum from a patient with pulmonary spindle cell carcinoma that was confirmed as primary infection by application of laser capture microdissection and polymerase chain reaction. To explore whether the strain is pathogenic and whether it can cause atypical cell proliferation and infiltration of NK cells and T cells, we designed a mouse infection experiment.METHODS: Twelve ICR mice were randomly separated into three groups. Cyclophosphamide was used to inhibit the immunity of mice. A mouse model of Trichoderma infection was successfully established by intracutaneous injection on the back skin with a suspension of strain PKUT180420015. The pathological manifestations of Trichoderma infection and the interaction between immune cells and fungi were observed by histopathology, immunohistochemistry and intensive fungal staining. Reisolation of the fungus was observed by infected tissue culture. The inoculated sites exhibited swelling 3 days after inoculation, and ulcers developed at approximately 14 days. Skin specimens were obtained and then cultured at 3, 7, and 14 days after inoculation. We selected mice 14 days after inoculation in Group 3, whose ulcers were the most typical, for histological analysis.RESULTS: Inflammation, angioinvasion and necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry showed positive markers of Ki67, CD3, CD56, GZMB, and PRF. Periodic acid-Schiff staining, periodic acid-silver methenamine staining, and Calcofluor staining showed fungal spores in the vascular lumen, vascular walls and around the blood vessels.CONCLUSIONS: Our studies showed that a T. longibrachiatum strain (PKUT180420015) isolated from a biopsy specimen in a patient with pulmonary spindle cell carcinoma could induce atypical hyperplasia, with the expression of Ki67, CD3, CD56, GZMB, and PRF in mice. These data indicate that the fungus may be involved in inducing atypical hyperplasia or tumorigenesis.
The pathophysiology of atherosclerosis and acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is related to interactions between immune cells, endothelium, and blood platelets. An increasing number of reports confirm the link between excessive immune activation and cellular cross-talk with ACS incidence. Our genetic and proteomic analysis was performed on strictly selected atherosclerotic patients with non-fatal ACS without typical risk factors and healthy donors. Results showed changes in the gene expression levels of the various inflammatory factors derived from the peripheral blood cells that drive the over-activation of the immune system. The enhanced activation of the immune system may lead to the overexpression of the pro-inflammatory mediators, which causes self-perpetuating machinery of processes associated with thrombosis. In our preliminary study, we confirmed an altered expression of genes associated with the inflammation and overall interaction of the vascular microenvironment. Furthermore, 5 of 92 analyzed genes, CCL2, CCR2, CSF2, GZMB, and ICOS, were expressed only in patients with ACS. In conclusion, the augmented expression of the pro-inflammatory genes from the peripheral blood cells may be a crucial genetic factor leading to the occurrence of acute inflammation and thus be significant in ACS pathogenesis.
Sphingolipids are essential metabolites found in all plant species. They are required for plasma membrane integrity, tolerance of and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, and intracellular signalling. There is extensive diversity in the sphingolipid content of different plant species, and in the identities and roles of enzymes required for their processing. In this review, we survey results obtained from investigations of the classical genetic model Arabidopsis thaliana, from assorted dicots with less extensive genetic toolkits, from the model monocot Oryza sativa, and finally from the model bryophyte Physcomitrium patens. For each species or group, we first broadly summarize what is known about sphingolipid content. We then discuss the most insightful and puzzling features of modifications to the hydrophobic ceramides, and to the polar headgroups of complex sphingolipids. Altogether, these data can serve as a framework for our knowledge of sphingolipid metabolism across the plant kingdom. This chemical and metabolic heterogeneity underpins equally diverse functions. With greater availability of different tools for analytical measurements and genetic manipulation, our field is entering an exciting phase of expanding our knowledge of the biological functions of this persistently cryptic class of lipids.
Objective: Experimental and clinical evidence suggests that atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease. Our study was conducted for uncovering the roles of immune-associated genes during atherosclerotic plaque progression. Methods: Gene expression profiling of GSE28829, GSE43292, GSE41571, and GSE120521 datasets was retrieved from the GEO database. Three machine learning algorithms, least absolute shrinkage, and selection operator (LASSO), random forest, and support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE) were utilized for screening characteristic genes among atherosclerotic plaque progression- and immune-associated genes. ROC curves were generated for estimating the diagnostic efficacy. Immune cell infiltrations were estimated via ssGSEA, and immune checkpoints were quantified. CMap analysis was implemented to screen potential small-molecule compounds. Atherosclerotic plaque specimens were classified using a consensus clustering approach. Results: Seven characteristic genes (TNFSF13B, CCL5, CCL19, ITGAL, CD14, GZMB, and BTK) were identified, which enabled the prediction of progression of atherosclerotic plaques. Higher immune cell infiltrations and immune checkpoint expressions were found in advanced-stage than in early-stage atherosclerotic plaques and were positively linked to characteristic genes. Patients could clinically benefit from the characteristic gene-based nomogram. Several small molecular compounds were predicted based on the characteristic genes. Two subtypes, namely, C1 immune subtype and C2 non-immune subtype, were classified across atherosclerotic plaques. The characteristic genes presented higher expression in C1 than in C2 subtypes. Conclusion: Our findings provide several promising atherosclerotic plaque progression- and immune-associated genes as well as immune subtypes, which might enable to assist the design of more accurately tailored cardiovascular immunotherapy.
Resulting from severe inflammation and cell destruction, COVID-19 patients could develop pulmonary fibrosis (PF), which remains in the convalescent stage. Nevertheless, how immune response participates in the pathogenesis of PF progression is not well defined. To investigate that question, 12 patients with severe COVID-19 were included in the study. Peripheral mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples were collected shortly after their admission and proceeded for single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). After 14 days of discharge, the patients were revisited for chest CT scan. PF index (FI) was computed by AI-assisted CT images. Patients were categorized into FIhi and FIlo based on median of FI. By scRNA-seq analysis, our data demonstrated that frequency of CD4+ activated T cells and Treg cells were approximately 3-fold higher in FIhi patients compared with FIlo ones (p < 0.034 for all). By dissecting the differentially expressed genes, we found an overall downregulation of IFN-responsive genes (STAT1, IRF7, ISG15, ISG20, IFIs, and IFITMs) and S100s alarmins (S100A8, S100A9, S100A12, etc.) in all T-cell clusters, and cytotoxicity-related genes (GZMB, PRF1, and GNLY) in CTLs and γδ T cells in the FIhi cohort, compared with FIlo subjects. The GSEA analysis illustrated decreased expression of genes enriched in IFN signaling, innate immune response, adaptive immune response in T cells, NK cells, and monocytes in FIhi patients compared with FIlo ones. In conclusion, these data indicated that the attenuated IFN-responsive genes and their related signaling pathways could be critical for PF progression in COVID-19 patients.
Insect brains are formed by conserved sets of neural lineages whose fibers form cohesive bundles with characteristic projection patterns. Within the brain neuropil, these bundles establish a system of fascicles constituting the macrocircuitry of the brain. The overall architecture of the neuropils and the macrocircuitry appear to be conserved. However, variation is observed, for example, in size, shape, and timing of development. Unfortunately, the developmental and genetic basis of this variation is poorly understood, although the rise of new genetically tractable model organisms such as the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum allows the possibility to gain mechanistic insights. To facilitate such work, we present an atlas of the developing brain of T. castaneum, covering the first larval instar, the prepupal stage, and the adult, by combining wholemount immunohistochemical labeling of fiber bundles (acetylated tubulin) and neuropils (synapsin) with digital 3D reconstruction using the TrakEM2 software package. Upon comparing this anatomical dataset with the published work in Drosophila melanogaster, we confirm an overall high degree of conservation. Fiber tracts and neuropil fascicles, which can be visualized by global neuronal antibodies like antiacetylated tubulin in all invertebrate brains, create a rich anatomical framework to which individual neurons or other regions of interest can be referred to. The framework of a largely conserved pattern allowed us to describe differences between the two species with respect to parameters such as timing of neuron proliferation and maturation. These features likely reflect adaptive changes in developmental timing that govern the change from larval to adult brain.
Xylem sap is the major transport route for nutrients from roots to shoots. In the present study, we investigated how variations in nitrogen (N) nutrition affected the metabolome and proteome of xylem sap and the growth of the xylem endophyte Brennaria salicis, and we also report transcriptional re-wiring of leaf defenses in poplar (Populus × canescens). We supplied poplars with high, intermediate or low concentrations of ammonium or nitrate. We identified 288 unique proteins in xylem sap. Approximately 85% of the xylem sap proteins were shared among ammonium- and nitrate-supplied plants. The number of proteins increased with increasing N supply but the major functional categories (catabolic processes, cell wall-related enzymes, defense) were unaffected. Ammonium nutrition caused higher abundances of amino acids and carbohydrates, whereas nitrate caused higher malate levels in xylem sap. Pipecolic acid and N-hydroxy-pipecolic acid increased, whereas salicylic acid and jasmonoyl-isoleucine decreased, with increasing N nutrition. Untargeted metabolome analyses revealed 2179 features in xylem sap, of which 863 were differentially affected by N treatments. We identified 124 metabolites, mainly from specialized metabolism of the groups of salicinoids, phenylpropanoids, phenolics, flavonoids, and benzoates. Their abundances increased with decreasing N, except coumarins. Brennaria salicis growth was reduced in nutrient-supplemented xylem sap of low- and high- NO3- -fed plants compared to that of NH4+ -fed plants. The drastic changes in xylem sap composition caused massive changes in the transcriptional landscape of leaves and recruited defenses related to systemic acquired and induced systemic resistance. Our study uncovers unexpected complexity and variability of xylem composition with consequences for plant defenses.
Comment in    Plant Cell. 2022 Jul 4;34(7):2586-2587.
BACKGROUND: Ginsenosides are biologically active components of ginseng and have various functions. In this study, we investigated the immunomodulatory activity of a ginseng product generated from ginseng powder (GP) via enzymatic bioconversion. This product, General Bio compound K-10 mg solution (GBCK10S), exhibited increased levels of minor ginsenosides, including ginsenoside-F1, compound K, and compound Y.METHODS: The immunomodulatory properties of GBCK10S were confirmed using mice and a human natural killer (NK) cell line. We monitored the expression of molecules involved in immune responses via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, flow cytometry, NK cell-targeted cell destruction, quantitative reverse-transcription real-time polymerase chain reaction, and Western blot analyses.RESULTS: Oral administration of GBCK10S significantly increased serum immunoglobulin M levels and primed splenocytes to express pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, and interferon-γ. Oral administration of GBCK10S also activated NK cells in mice. Furthermore, GBCK10S treatment stimulated a human NK cell line in vitro, thereby increasing granzyme B gene expression and activating STAT5.CONCLUSION: GBCK10S may have potent immunostimulatory properties and can activate immune responses mediated by B cells, Th1-type T cells, and NK cells.
Erratum for    BMC Genet. 2014;15 Suppl 2:S17.
Immunotherapy has shown significant promise as a treatment for cancer, such as lung cancer and melanoma. However, only 10%-30% of the patients respond to treatment with immune checkpoint blockers (ICBs), underscoring the need for biomarkers to predict response to immunotherapy. Here, we developed DeepGeneX, a computational framework that uses advanced deep neural network modeling and feature elimination to reduce single-cell RNA-seq data on ∼26,000 genes to six of the most important genes (CCR7, SELL, GZMB, WARS, GZMH, and LGALS1), that accurately predict response to immunotherapy. We also discovered that the high LGALS1 and WARS-expressing macrophage population represent a biomarker for ICB therapy nonresponders, suggesting that these macrophages may be a target for improving ICB response. Taken together, DeepGeneX enables biomarker discovery and provides an understanding of the molecular basis for the model's predictions.
BACKGROUND: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the major non-small-cell lung cancer pathological subtype with poor prognosis worldwide. Herein, we aimed to build an energy metabolism-associated prognostic gene signature to predict patient survival.METHODS: The gene expression profiles of patients with LUAD were downloaded from the TCGA and GEO databases, and energy metabolism (EM)-related genes were downloaded from the GeneCards database. Univariate Cox and LASSO analyses were performed to identify the prognostic EM-associated gene signatures. Kaplan-Meier and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were plotted to validate the predictive effect of the prognostic signatures. A CIBERSORT analysis was used to evaluate the correlation between the risk model and immune cells. A nomogram was used to predict the survival probability of LUAD based on a risk model.RESULTS: We constructed a prognostic signature comprising 13 EM-related genes (AGER, AHSG, ALDH2, CIDEC, CYP17A1, FBP1, GNB3, GZMB, IGFBP1, SORD, SOX2, TRH and TYMS). The Kaplan-Meier curves validated the good predictive ability of the prognostic signature in TCGA AND two GEO datasets (p<0.0001, p=0.00021, and p=0.0034, respectively). The area under the curve (AUC) of the ROC curves also validated the predictive accuracy of the risk model. We built a nomogram to predict the survival probability of LUAD, and the calibration curves showed good predictive ability. Finally, a functional analysis also unveiled the different immune statuses between the two different risk groups.CONCLUSION: Our study constructed and verified a novel EM-related prognostic gene signature that could improve the individualized prediction of survival probability in LUAD.
The nucleoside analog N4-hydroxycytidine (NHC) is the active metabolite of the prodrug molnupiravir, which has been approved for the treatment of COVID-19. SARS-CoV-2 incorporates NHC into its RNA, resulting in defective virus genomes. Likewise, inhibitors of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) reduce virus yield upon infection, by suppressing the cellular synthesis of pyrimidines. Here, we show that NHC and DHODH inhibitors strongly synergize in the inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 replication in vitro. We propose that the lack of available pyrimidine nucleotides upon DHODH inhibition increases the incorporation of NHC into nascent viral RNA. This concept is supported by the rescue of virus replication upon addition of pyrimidine nucleosides to the media. DHODH inhibitors increased the antiviral efficiency of molnupiravir not only in organoids of human lung, but also in Syrian Gold hamsters and in K18-hACE2 mice. Combining molnupiravir with DHODH inhibitors may thus improve available therapy options for COVID-19.
Plant cell walls constitute physical barriers that restrict access of microbial pathogens to the contents of plant cells. The primary cell wall of multicellular plants predominantly consists of cellulose, hemicellulose, and pectin, and its composition can change upon stress. BETA-XYLOSIDASE4 (BXL4) belongs to a seven-member gene family in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), one of which encodes a protein (BXL1) involved in cell wall remodeling. We assayed the influence of BXL4 on plant immunity and investigated the subcellular localization and enzymatic activity of BXL4, making use of mutant and overexpression lines. BXL4 localized to the apoplast and was induced upon infection with the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea in a jasmonoyl isoleucine-dependent manner. The bxl4 mutants showed a reduced resistance to B. cinerea, while resistance was increased in conditional overexpression lines. Ectopic expression of BXL4 in Arabidopsis seed coat epidermal cells rescued a bxl1 mutant phenotype, suggesting that, like BXL1, BXL4 has both xylosidase and arabinosidase activity. We conclude that BXL4 is a xylosidase/arabinosidase that is secreted to the apoplast and its expression is upregulated under pathogen attack, contributing to immunity against B. cinerea, possibly by removal of arabinose and xylose side-chains of polysaccharides in the primary cell wall.
Understanding immune memory to COVID-19 vaccines is critical for the design and optimal vaccination schedule for curbing the COVID-19 pandemic. Here, we assessed the status of humoral and cellular immune responses at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after two-dose CoronaVac vaccination. A total of 150 participants were enrolled, and 136 of them completed the study through the 12-month endpoint. Our results show that, at 1 month after vaccination, both binding and neutralizing antibodies could be detected; the seropositive rate of binding antibodies and seroconversion rate of neutralizing antibodies were 99% and 50%, respectively. From 3 to 12 months, the binding and neutralizing antibodies declined over time. At 12 months, the binding and neutralizing antibodies were still detectable and significantly higher than the baseline. Gamma interferon (IFN-γ) and interleukin 2 (IL-2) secretion specifically induced by the receptor-binding domain (RBD) persisted at high levels until 6 months and could be observed at 12 months, while the levels of IL-5 and granzyme B (GzmB) were hardly detected, demonstrating a Th1-biased response. In addition, specific CD4+ T central memory (TCM), CD4+ effector memory (TEM), CD8+ TEM, and CD8+ terminal effector (TE) cells were all detectable and functional up to 12 months after the second dose, as the cells produced IFN-γ, IL-2, and GzmB in response to stimulation of SARS-CoV-2 RBD. Our work provides evidence that CoronaVac induced not only detectable binding and neutralizing antibody responses, but also functional SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ and CD8+ memory T cells for up to 12 months. IMPORTANCE CoronaVac is an inactivated vaccine containing whole-virion SARS-CoV-2, which has been approved in 43 countries for emergency use as of 26 November 2021. However, the long-term immune persistence of the CoronaVac vaccine is still unknown. Here, we reported the status of the persistence of antibodies and cellular responses within 12 months after two doses of CoronaVac. Such data are crucial to inform ongoing and future vaccination strategies to combat COVID-19.
Breast cancer (BC) is a malignant tumor with high morbidity and mortality, which seriously threatens women's health worldwide. Pyroptosis is closely correlated with immune landscape and the tumorigenesis and development of various cancers. However, studies about pyroptosis and immune microenvironment in BC are limited. Therefore, our study aimed to investigate the potential prognostic value of pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) and their relationship to immune microenvironment in BC. First, we identified 38 differentially expressed PRGs between BC and normal tissues. Further on, the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression and computational biology techniques were applied to construct a four-gene signature based on PRGs and patients in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) cohort were classified into high- and low-risk groups. Patients in the high-risk group showed significantly lower survival possibilities compared with the low-risk group, which was also verified in an external cohort. Furthermore, the risk model was characterized as an independent factor for predicting the overall survival (OS) of BC patients. What is more important, functional enrichment analyses demonstrated the robust correlation between risk score and immune infiltration, thereby we summarized genetic mutation variation of PRGs, evaluated the relationship between PRGs, different risk group and immune infiltration, tumor mutation burden (TMB), microsatellite instability (MSI), and immune checkpoint blockers (ICB), which indicated that the low-risk group was enriched in higher TMB, more abundant immune cells, and subsequently had a brighter prognosis. Except for that, the lower expression of PRGs such as GZMB, IL18, IRF1, and GZMA represented better survival, which verified the association between pyroptosis and immune landscape. In conclusion, we performed a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and established a four-PRG signature consisting of GZMB, IL18, IRF1, and GZMA, which could robustly predict the prognosis of BC patients.
BACKGROUND: The course of vitiligo is unpredictable, with periods of disease flare-ups and prolonged recovery periods. It is essential to establish a biomarker profile as a substitute marker for disease activity to predict disease activity, severity, and prognosis prediction. The use of localized skin interstitial fluid as biomarkers has recently gained interest, but extensive studies of the association between skin interstitial fluid, plasma, and the disease course is lacking. This study aims to evaluate the cytokine expression profiles in the skin and plasma and the utility of the biomarker panel in assessing disease activity, severity, and prognosis in patients with vitiligo.METHODS: In this prospective cohort study, 86 patients and 34 healthy controls were recruited from the outpatient department of a tertiary medical center from March 2019 to September 2021. All patients were of Asian ethnicity. Two independent investigators evaluated disease activity and severity with longitudinal follow-ups for treatment response for a-12 month period. Ultrasensitive multiplex cytokine panel and single-molecule counting technology immunoassays were used to study the cytokine expression in skin interstitial fluid and plasma.RESULTS: IFN-γ and its' signature cytokines, including CXCL9, CXCL10, and GzmB, are most highly expressed in the vitiligo patients' lesion skin interstitial fluid and plasma compared to healthy control. By way of comparison, no significant changes in IL-1β, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17A, IL-18 were observed. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that IFN-γ is the most sensitive and specific marker in predicting disease activity, followed by CXCL10 and GzmB. CXCL-9 was sensitive and specific in diagnosing vitiligo disease severity. The decrease in IFN-γ expression level is positively correlated with the treatment response.CONCLUSION: IFN-γ, CXCL9, CXCL10, and GzmB are highly expressed in vitiligo patients' lesion skin and plasma and may serve as biomarkers for the clinical activity, severity, and prognosis prediction in vitiligo patients. Among all, IFN-γ exerts the highest predictive value in disease activity and treatment response, supporting the critical role of IFN-γ in the pathogenesis of vitiligo.
Erratum in    Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2022 Jun 6;:
The predominant function of the skin is to serve as a barrier-to protect against external insults and to prevent water loss. Junctional and structural proteins in the stratum corneum, the outermost layer of the epidermis, are critical to the integrity of the epidermal barrier as it balances ongoing outward migration, differentiation, and desquamation of keratinocytes in the epidermis. As such, epidermal barrier function is highly susceptible to upsurges of proteolytic activity in the stratum corneum and epidermis. Granzyme B is a serine protease scarce in healthy tissues but present at high levels in tissues encumbered by chronic inflammation. Discovered in the 1980s, granzyme B is currently recognized for its intracellular roles in immune cell-mediated apoptosis as well as extracellular roles in inflammation, chronic injuries, tissue remodeling, as well as processing of cytokines, matrix proteins, and autoantigens. Increasing evidence has emerged in recent years supporting a role for granzyme B in promoting barrier dysfunction in the epidermis by direct cleavage of barrier proteins and eliciting immunoreactivity. Likewise, granzyme B contributes to impaired epithelial function of the airways, retina, gut, and vessels. In the present review, the role of granzyme B in cutaneous epithelial dysfunction is discussed in the context of specific conditions with an overview of underlying mechanisms as well as utility of current experimental and therapeutic inhibitors.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to elucidate the changes in the percentage of GPR56 and/or granzyme B (GZMB) positive cells in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes, and to explore their clinical value in diagnosing and reflecting the progression of RA.METHODS: The percentages of GPR56 and/or GZMB positive cells were analyzed in peripheral blood (PB) and spleen T cells in a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model established in DBA/1 mice. The percentages of GPR56+ and/or GZMB+ cells were further analyzed in PBs from RA patients and healthy controls. Correlation analysis was performed between clinical indicators and GPR56+, GZMB+, and GPR56+ GZMB+ T cells. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to evaluate the value of GPR56 and GZMB in differentiating active and stable remitting RA.RESULTS: GPR56+ levels were increased in CD4 and CD8 T cells in the PB of CIA mice. The percentages of GPR56+ and GZMB+ cells were increased in both CD4 and CD8 T cell subsets in patients with active RA. GPR56+, GZMB+, and GPR56+ GZMB+ cells were positively correlated with rheumatoid factor and DAS28. ROC analysis revealed that AUCs for GPR56+, GZMB+, and GPR56+ GZMB+ cell percentages to distinguish active RA from stable remission RA were 0.7106, 0.6941, 0.7024, with cut-off values of 16.35, 16.40, 14.80 in CD4 + T cells, and 0.8031, 0.8086, 0.8196 with cut-off values 60.25, 62.15, 40.15 in CD8 + T cells, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: GPR56+ and/or GZMB+ T cells are up-regulated in patients with active RA and reflect their condition. The detection of GPR56 and GZMB is helpful for RA disease assessment.
BACKGROUND: The onset and progression of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) is closely related to autoimmunity. Effective monitoring of the immune system and developing targeted therapies are frontier fields in T1DM treatment. Currently, the most available tissue that reflects the immune system is peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Thus, the aim of this study was to identify key PBMC biomarkers of T1DM.METHODS: Common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets GSE9006, GSE72377, and GSE55098, and PBMC mRNA expression in T1DM patients was compared with that in healthy participants by GEO2R. Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses of DEGs were performed using the Cytoscape, DAVID, and STRING databases. The vital hub genes were validated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using clinical samples. The disease-gene-drug interaction network was built using the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) and Drug Gene Interaction Database (DGIdb).RESULTS: We found that various biological functions or pathways related to the immune system and glucose metabolism changed in PBMCs from T1DM patients. In the PPI network, the DEGs of module 1 were significantly enriched in processes including inflammatory and immune responses and in pathways of proteoglycans in cancer. Moreover, we focused on four vital hub genes, namely, chitinase-3-like protein 1 (CHI3L1), C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1), matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9), and granzyme B (GZMB), and confirmed them in clinical PBMC samples. Furthermore, the disease-gene-drug interaction network revealed the potential of key genes as reference markers in T1DM.CONCLUSION: These results provide new insight into T1DM pathogenesis and novel biomarkers that could be widely representative reference indicators or potential therapeutic targets for clinical applications.
PURPOSE: We examined gene expression, germline variant, and somatic mutation features associated with pathologic response to neoadjuvant durvalumab plus chemotherapy in basal-like triple-negative breast cancer (bTNBC).EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Germline and somatic whole-exome DNA and RNA sequencing, programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) IHC, and stromal tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte scoring were performed on 57 patients. We validated our results using 162 patients from the GeparNuevo randomized trial.RESULTS: Gene set enrichment analysis showed that pathways involved in immunity (adaptive, humoral, innate), JAK-STAT signaling, cancer drivers, cell cycle, apoptosis, and DNA repair were enriched in cases with pathologic complete response (pCR), whereas epithelial-mesenchymal transition, extracellular matrix, and TGFβ pathways were enriched in cases with residual disease (RD). Immune-rich bTNBC with RD was enriched in CCL-3, -4, -5, -8, -23, CXCL-1, -3, -6, -10, and IL1, -23, -27, -34, and had higher expression of macrophage markers compared with immune-rich cancers with pCR that were enriched in IFNγ, IL2, -12, -21, chemokines CXCL-9, -13, CXCR5, and activated T- and B-cell markers (GZMB, CD79A). In the validation cohort, an immune-rich five-gene signature showed higher expression in pCR cases in the durvalumab arm (P = 0.040) but not in the placebo arm (P = 0.923) or in immune-poor cancers. Independent of immune markers, tumor mutation burden was higher, and PI3K, DNA damage repair, MAPK, and WNT/β-catenin signaling pathways were enriched in germline and somatic mutations in cases with pCR.CONCLUSIONS: The TGFβ pathway is associated with immune-poor phenotype and RD in bTNBC. Among immune-rich bTNBC RD, macrophage/neutrophil chemoattractants dominate the cytokine milieu, and IFNγ and activated B cells and T cells dominate immune-rich cancers with pCR.
The pandemic of the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is continuously causing hazards for the world. Effective detection of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) can relieve the impact, but various toxic chemicals are also released into the environment. Fluorescence sensors offer a facile analytical strategy. During fluorescence sensing, biological samples such as tissues and body fluids have autofluorescence, giving false-positive/negative results because of the interferences. Fluorescence near-infrared (NIR) nanosensors can be designed from low-toxic materials with insignificant background signals. Although this research is still in its infancy, further developments in this field have the potential for sustainable detection of SARS-CoV-2. Herein, we summarize the reported NIR fluorescent nanosensors with the potential to detect SARS-CoV-2. The green synthesis of NIR fluorescent nanomaterials, environmentally compatible sensing strategies, and possible methods to reduce the testing frequencies are discussed. Further optimization strategies for developing NIR fluorescent nanosensors to facilitate greener diagnostics of SARS-CoV-2 for pandemic control are proposed.
Biosilica formation in diatoms is a membrane-confined process that occurs in so-called silica deposition vesicles (SDVs). As SDVs have as yet not been successfully isolated, the impact of the SDV membrane on silica morphogenesis is not well understood. However, recently the first SDV transmembrane protein, silicanin-1 (Sin1) has been identified that appears to be involved in biosilica formation. In this study, we recombinantly expressed and isolated full-length Sin1 from E. coli and investigated its reconstitution behavior in artificial membranes. A reconstitution efficiency in vesicles of up to 80% was achieved by a co-micellization method. By using a chymotrypsin digest, the orientation of Sin1 in unilamellar vesicles was analyzed indicating a positioning of the large N-terminal domain to the outside of the vesicles. These proteoliposomes were capable of precipitating silica in the presence of long-chain polyamines. Supported lipid bilayers were produced by proteoliposome spreading on lipid monolayers to form continuous lipid bilayers with Sin1 confined to the membrane. Successful Sin1 reconstitution into these planar membranes was shown by means of immunostaining with purified primary anti-Sin1 and secondary fluorescent antibodies. The established planar model membrane system, amenable for surface sensitive and microscopy techniques, will pave the way to investigate SDV-membrane interactions with other SDV associated biomolecules and its role in silica biogenesis.
Human granzyme B (hGzmB), which is present in various immune cells, has attracted much attention due to its role in various pathophysiological conditions. The hGzmB activity is triggered at a catalytic triad (His59, Asp103, Ser198), cleaving its specific substrates. To date, the drug design strategy against hGzmB mainly targets the catalytic triad, which causes the non-specificity problem of inhibitors due to the highly conserved active site in serine proteases. In the present work, microsecond classical molecular dynamics simulations are devoted to exploring the structural dynamics of the hGzmB catalytic cycle in the presence of Ac-IEPD-AMC, a known substrate (active hGzmB), and Ac-IEPD-CHO, a known inhibitor (inactive hGzmB). By comparing active and inactive forms of hGzmB in the six different stages of the hGzmB catalytic cycle, we revealed, for the very first time, an additional network of interactions involving Arg216, a residue located outside the conventional binding site. Upon activation, the His59∙∙∙Asp103 hydrogen bond is broken due to the formation of the Asp103∙∙∙Arg216 salt bridge, expanding the active site to facilitate the substrate-binding. On the contrary, the binding of inhibitor Ac-IEPD-CHO to hGzmB prevents the Arg216-mediated interactions within the catalytic triad, thus preventing hGzmB activity. In silico Arg216Ala mutation confirms the role of Arg216 in enzyme activity, as the substrate Ac-IEPD-AMC failed to bind to the mutated hGzmB. Importantly, as Arg216 is not conserved amongst the various granzymes, the current findings can be a major step to guide the design of hGzmB specific therapeutics.
Regulatory B cells (Bregs) have been highlighted in very different pathology settings including autoimmune diseases, allergy, graft rejection, and cancer. Improving tools for the characterization of Bregs has become the main objective especially in humans. Transitional, mature B cells and plasma cells can differentiate into IL-10 producing Bregs in both mice and humans, suggesting that Bregs are not derived from unique precursors but may arise from different competent progenitors at unrestricted development stages. Moreover, in addition to IL-10 production, regulatory B cells used a broad range of suppressing mechanisms to modulate the immune response. Although Bregs have been consistently described in the literature, only a few reports described the molecular aspects that control the acquisition of the regulatory function. In this manuscript, we detailed the latest reports describing the control of IL-10, TGFβ, and GZMB production in different Breg subsets at the molecular level. We focused on the understanding of the role of the transcription factors STAT3 and c-MAF in controlling IL-10 production in murine and human B cells and how these factors may represent an important crossroad of several key drivers of the Breg response. Finally, we provided original data supporting the evidence that MAF is expressed in human IL-10- producing plasmablast and could be induced in vitro following different stimulation cocktails. At steady state, we reported that MAF is expressed in specific human B-cell tonsillar subsets including the IgD+ CD27+ unswitched population, germinal center cells and plasmablast.
Membrane contact sites (MCSs) are interorganellar connections that allow for the direct exchange of molecules, such as lipids or Ca2+ between organelles, but can also serve to tether organelles at specific locations within cells. Here, we identified and characterized three proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana that form a lipid droplet (LD)-plasma membrane (PM) tethering complex in plant cells, namely LD-localized SEED LD PROTEIN (SLDP) 1 and SLDP2 and PM-localized LD-PLASMA MEMBRANE ADAPTOR (LIPA). Using proteomics and different protein-protein interaction assays, we show that both SLDPs associate with LIPA. Disruption of either SLDP1 and SLDP2 expression, or that of LIPA, leads to an aberrant clustering of LDs in Arabidopsis seedlings. Ectopic co-expression of one of the SLDPs with LIPA is sufficient to reconstitute LD-PM tethering in Nicotiana tabacum pollen tubes, a cell type characterized by dynamically moving LDs in the cytosolic streaming. Furthermore, confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed both SLDP2.1 and LIPA to be enriched at LD-PM contact sites in seedlings. These and other results suggest that SLDP and LIPA interact to form a tethering complex that anchors a subset of LDs to the PM during post-germinative seedling growth in Arabidopsis.
Lung adenocarcinoma grading has gained interest in the past years. Recently a three-tier tumor grading was proposed showing that it is related to patients' prognosis. Nevertheless, the underlying molecular basis of this morphological grading remains partly unknown. The aim of our work is to take advantage of The Cancer Genome Atlas lung adenocarcinoma (TCGA_LUAD) cohort to describe the molecular data associated to tumor grading. We performed a study on publicly available data of the TCGA database first by assessing a tumor grade on downloadable tumor slides. Secondly we analyzed the molecular features of each tumor grade group. Our work was performed on a study group of 449 patients. We show that aneuploidy score was significantly different between grade 2 and grade 3 groups with different chromosomal imbalance (p < 0.001). SCGB1A1 mRNA expression was higher in grade 2 (p = 0.0179) whereas NUP155, CHFR, POLQ and CDC7 have a higher expression in grade 3 (p = 0.0189, 0.0427, 0.0427 and 0.427 respectively). GZMB and KRT80 have a higher methylation of DNA in grade 2 (p = 0.0201 and 0.0359 respectively). MT1G, CLEC12B and NDUFA7 have a higher methylation of DNA in grade 3 (p < 0.001, 0.0246 and 0.0359 respectively). We showed that the number of activated pathways is different between grade 2 and grade 3 patients (p = 0.004). We showed that differentially expressed genes by mRNA analysis and DNA methylation analysis involve several genes implied in chemoresistance. This could suggest that grade 3 lung adenocarcinoma might be more resistant to chemotherapy.
BACKGROUND: The etiology of Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE), a rare chronic neurological disorder characterized by CD8+ T cell infiltration and unihemispheric brain atrophy, is still unknown. Various human herpes viruses (HHVs) have been detected in RE brain, but their contribution to RE pathogenesis is unclear.METHODS: HHVs infection and relevant immune response were compared among brain tissues from RE, temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and traumatic brain injury (TBI) patients. Viral antigen or genome, CD8+ T cells, microglia and innate immunity molecules were analyzed by immunohistochemical staining, DNA dot blot assay or immunofluorescence double staining. Cytokines were measured by multiplex flow cytometry. Cell apoptosis was visualized by TUNEL staining. Viral infection, immune response and the severity of unihemispheric atrophy were subjected to correlation analysis.RESULTS: Antigens of various HHVs were prevalent in RE and TLE brains, and the cumulative viral score of HHVs positively correlated with the unihemispheric atrophy in RE patients. CD8+ T cells infiltration were observed in both RE and TLE brains and showed co-localization with HHV antigens, but their activation, as revealed by Granzyme B (GZMB) release and apoptosis, was found only in RE. In comparison to TLE, RE brain tissues contained higher level of inflammatory cytokines, but the interferon-β level, which was negatively correlated with cumulative viral score, was relatively lower. In line with this, the DNA sensor STING and IFI16, rather than other innate immunity signaling molecules, were insufficiently activated in RE.CONCLUSIONS: Compared with TBI, both RE and TLE had prevalently HHV infection and immune response in brain tissues. However, in comparison to TLE, RE showed insufficient activation of antiviral innate immunity but overactivation of cytotoxic T cells. Our results show the relatively lower level of antiviral innate immunity and overactivation of cytotoxic T cells in RE cases upon HHV infection, the overactivated T cells might be a compensate to the innate immunity but the causative evidence is lack in our study and need more investigation in the future.
The Granzyme (Gzm) family has classically been recognized as a cytotoxic tool utilized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cells to illicit cell death to infected and cancerous cells. Their importance is established based on evidence showing that deficiencies in these cell death executors result in defective immune responses. Recent findings have shown the importance of Granzyme B (GzmB) in regulatory immune cells, which may contribute to tumor growth and immune evasion during cancer development. Other studies have shown that members of the Gzm family are important for biological processes such as extracellular matrix remodeling, angiogenesis and organized vascular degradation. With this growing body of evidence, it is becoming more important to understand the broader function of Gzm's rather than a specific executor of cell death, and we should be aware of the many alternative roles that Gzm's play in physiological and pathological conditions. Therefore, we review the classical as well as novel non-canonical functions of GzmB and discuss approaches to utilize these new findings to address current gaps in our understanding of the immune system and tissue development.
Understanding the drivers and markers of clonally expanding HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells is essential for HIV-1 eradication. We used single-cell ECCITE-seq, which captures surface protein expression, cellular transcriptome, HIV-1 RNA, and TCR sequences within the same single cell to track clonal expansion dynamics in longitudinally archived samples from six HIV-1-infected individuals (during viremia and after suppressive antiretroviral therapy) and two uninfected individuals, in unstimulated conditions and after CMV and HIV-1 antigen stimulation. Despite antiretroviral therapy, persistent antigen and TNF responses shaped T cell clonal expansion. HIV-1 resided in Th1-polarized, antigen-responding T cells expressing BCL2 and SERPINB9 that may resist cell death. HIV-1 RNA+ T cell clones were larger in clone size, established during viremia, persistent after viral suppression, and enriched in GZMB+ cytotoxic effector memory Th1 cells. Targeting HIV-1-infected cytotoxic CD4+ T cells and drivers of clonal expansion provides another direction for HIV-1 eradication.
After reaching the stigma, pollen grains germinate and form a pollen tube that transports the sperm cells to the ovule. Due to selection pressure between pollen tubes, pollen grains likely evolved mechanisms to quickly adapt to temperature changes to sustain elongation at the highest possible rate. We investigated these adaptions in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) pollen tubes grown in vitro under 22°C and 37°C by a multi-omics approach including lipidomic, metabolomic, and transcriptomic analysis. Both glycerophospholipids and galactoglycerolipids increased in saturated acyl chains under heat stress (HS), while triacylglycerols (TGs) changed less in respect to desaturation but increased in abundance. Free sterol composition was altered, and sterol ester levels decreased. The levels of sterylglycosides and several sphingolipid classes and species were augmented. Most amino acid levels increased during HS, including the noncodogenic amino acids γ-amino butyrate and pipecolate. Furthermore, the sugars sedoheptulose and sucrose showed higher levels. Also, the transcriptome underwent pronounced changes with 1,570 of 24,013 genes being differentially upregulated and 813 being downregulated. Transcripts coding for heat shock proteins and many transcriptional regulators were most strongly upregulated but also transcripts that have so far not been linked to HS. Transcripts involved in TG synthesis increased, while the modulation of acyl chain desaturation seemed not to be transcriptionally controlled, indicating other means of regulation. In conclusion, we show that tobacco pollen tubes are able to rapidly remodel their lipidome under HS likely by post-transcriptional and/or post-translational regulation.
The monophyletic group of embryophytes (land plants) stands out among photosynthetic eukaryotes: they are the sole constituents of the macroscopic flora on land. In their entirety, embryophytes account for the majority of the biomass on land and constitute an astounding biodiversity. What allowed for the massive radiation of this particular lineage? One of the defining features of all land plants is the production of an array of specialized metabolites. The compounds that the specialized metabolic pathways of embryophytes produce have diverse functions, ranging from superabundant structural polymers and compounds that ward off abiotic and biotic challenges, to signaling molecules whose abundance is measured at the nanomolar scale. These specialized metabolites govern the growth, development, and physiology of land plants-including their response to the environment. Hence, specialized metabolites define the biology of land plants as we know it. And they were likely a foundation for their success. It is thus intriguing to find that the closest algal relatives of land plants, freshwater organisms from the grade of streptophyte algae, possess homologs for key enzymes of specialized metabolic pathways known from land plants. Indeed, some studies suggest that signature metabolites emerging from these pathways can be found in streptophyte algae. Here we synthesize the current understanding of which routes of the specialized metabolism of embryophytes can be traced to a time before plants had conquered land.
BACKGROUND: Novel therapies are needed to treat recurrent and advanced cervical cancer (CC), as their prognosis remains very poor. Although therapies targeting the programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) pathway have been approved for CC, a large subset of patients exhibit innate resistance. Using checkpoint inhibitors in combination could enhance their efficacy.METHODS: Blood samples, tumor specimens, and peritumorous (PT) tissues were obtained from patients with CC. The inhibitory receptor expression and phenotypical analysis of CD8+ T cells in CC specimens were analyzed by flow cytometry. The ligands of CD96 expressed by tumor cells were measured by immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence. Sensitivity to pembrolizumab was evaluated by an ex vivo treatment assay based on the single-cell culture of CC specimens. The efficacies of PD-1 and/or CD96 blockades were explored using an ex vivo treatment assay and an human papillomavirus-positive TC-1 xenograft mouse model in vivo.RESULTS: We found that CD96 expression was elevated on CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) from patients with CC who were insensitive to the PD-1 blockade. These CD96-expressing CD8+ TILs often coexpressed PD-1. The ratio of the CD96+CD8+/CD96-CD8+ T-cell gene signature from the scRNA-seq data was significantly associated with the poor survival of patients with cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma. The costimulatory receptor CD226, which competes with CD96, was downregulated in tumors compared with blood and PT tissue. CD96 and T-cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) were upregulated on intratumoral CD8+ T cells. The CD226/CD96/TIGIT signaling ligands were widely expressed in CC tumor tissues. Phenotypical profiling showed that PD-1+CD96+CD8+ TILs exhibited a terminally exhausted effector phenotype with high levels of T-cell immunoglobulin mucin receptor 3 (TIM-3) and granzyme B (GZMB) and extremely low levels of proinflammatory cytokines and cytotoxic molecules. PD-1+CD96 cells exhibited a precursor exhausted phenotype with TCF-1 positivity. CD96 was further upregulated by CD8+ TILs on PD-1 blockade. Treatment with the CD96 blockade significantly enhanced the PD-1 blockade to blunt tumor growth and improve the function of CD8+ TILs in both mouse and CC specimen models.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings showed that CD96 and PD-1 cooperatively and negatively regulate the function of CD8+ TILs, and CD96 blockade has promise for use in combination with PD-1 blockade for the treatment of CC.
BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer (OC) is a major cause of most gynecological cancer deaths, and the rates of incidence and mortality are increasing worldwide. However, factors in the tumor microenvironment (TME) related to OC and certain prognostic markers of OC are still unknown. We aimed to identify biomarkers connected to prognostic immunity based on clinical patients' data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA).METHODS: We used the ESTIMATE algorithm to compute the immune and matrix scores of OC patients from TCGA. Next, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) according to the immune and matrix scores were obtained. Subsequently, genes (GZMB, C2orf37, CXCL13, and UBD) connected with prognostic immunity were determined. Moreover, functional enrichment analysis and the protein-protein interaction network showed that these genes were enriched in many biological processes related to immune function. The Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) algorithm was also used to analyze the immune prognostic genes according to six immuno-infiltrating cells.RESULTS: According to high/low immune-scores and matrix-score groups, 682 common genes were identified, within 420 upregulated genes and 262 downregulated genes. Gene ontology (GO) analysis of biological process primarily enriched in T cell activation, regulation of lymphocyte activation and lymphocyte differentiation. OS analysis showed 45 genes (6.6%) were relevant in the final results. The Kaplan-Meier plotter database verified the top 10 genes related to prognosis, but only GZMB, C2orf37, CXCL13 and UBD were related to overall survival (OS).CONCLUSIONS: GZMB, CXCL13, and UBD may influence prognosis via their effects on the infiltration of immune cells and therefore represent potential targets for OC immunotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells are an ex vivo expanded heterogeneous population of natural killer (NK)-like T cells that can exert potent MHC-unrestricted antitumor activity. A number of pre-clinical and clinical studies have demonstrated that CIK cells can serve as a safe and potent immunotherapy of malignant tumors. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been demonstrated to enhance the T-cell functions by increasing their proliferation and cytokine production.OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether the incorporation of NAC to CIK cell culture could enhance the antitumor activity of CIK cells.METHODS: The phenotypes of human CIK cells, including CD3+CD56+, IFN-γ, granzyme B, and perforin, were determined by flow cytometry. The cytotoxic activity against the human erythroleukemic cell line (K562) and cholangiocarcinoma cell line (CL6) prelabeled with CFSE was investigated by flow cytometry. The mRNA expression levels of IFNG, PRF1, and GZMB were measured by real-time PCR.RESULTS: By adding NAC into CIK cell culture, the percentage of CD3+CD56+ cells along with the expression of Th1 cytokines and cytolytic granules increased significantly, resulting in an improvement of cytotoxicity against the cancer cell lines CL6 and K562.CONCLUSIONS: The incorporation of NAC into CIK culture can markedly improve the cytotoxicity against cancer cells due to the significant increase in the major effector population of CIK cells expressing Th1 cytokines and cytolytic granules.
Third-generation long-read sequencing is transforming plant genomics. Oxford Nanopore Technologies and Pacific Biosciences are offering competing long-read sequencing technologies and enable plant scientists to investigate even large and complex plant genomes. Sequencing projects can be conducted by single research groups and sequences of smaller plant genomes can be completed within days. This also resulted in an increased investigation of genomes from multiple species in large scale to address fundamental questions associated with the origin and evolution of land plants. Increased accessibility of sequencing devices and user-friendly software allows more researchers to get involved in genomics. Current challenges are accurately resolving diploid or polyploid genome sequences and better accounting for the intra-specific diversity by switching from the use of single reference genome sequences to a pangenome graph.
OBJECTIVE: The analysis of the gene expression of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) is important to clarify the pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and the detection of suitable biomarkers. The purpose of this investigation was to use RNA-sequencing to screen the appropriate differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the PBMCs for the HCC.METHODS: The comprehensive transcriptome of extracted RNA of PBMC (n = 20) from patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB), liver cirrhosis, and early stage of HCC (5 samples per group) was carried out using RNA-sequencing. All raw RNA-sequencing data analyses were performed using conventional RNA-sequencing analysis tools. Next, gene ontology (GO) analyses were carried out to elucidate the biological processes of DEGs. Finally, relative transcript abundance of selected DEGs was verified using qRT-PCR on additional validation groups.RESULTS: Specifically, 13, 1262, and 1450 DEGs were identified for CHB, liver cirrhosis, and HCC, when compared with the healthy controls. GO enrichment analysis indicated that HCC is closely related to the immune response. Seven DEGs (TYMP, TYROBP, CD14, TGFBI, LILRA2, GNLY, and GZMB) were common to HCC, cirrhosis, and CHB when compared to healthy controls. The data revealed that the expressions of these 7 DEGs were consistent with those from the RNA-sequencing results. Also, the expressions of 7 representative genes that had higher sensitivity were obtained by receiver operating characteristic analysis, which indicated their important diagnostic accuracy for HBV-HCC.CONCLUSION: This study provides us with new horizons into the biological process and potential prospective clinical diagnosis and prognosis of HCC in the near future.
The pig has the potential to become a leading research model for human diseases, pharmacological and transplantation studies. Since there are many similarities between humans and pigs, especially concerning anatomy, physiology and metabolism, there is necessity for a better understanding of the porcine immune system. In adaptive immunity, cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) are essential for host defense. However, most data on CTLs come from studies in mice, non-human primates and humans, while detailed information about porcine CD8+ CTLs is still sparse. Aim of this study was to analyze transcriptomes of three subsets of porcine CD8β+ T-cell subsets by using next-generation sequencing technology. Specifically, we described transcriptional profiles of subsets defined by their CD11a/CD27 expression pattern, postulated as naïve (CD8β+CD27+CD11alow), intermediate differentiated (CD8β+CD27dimCD11a+), and terminally differentiated cells (CD8β+CD27-CD11ahigh). Cells were analyzed in ex vivo condition as well as upon in vitro stimulation with concanavalin A (ConA) and PMA/ionomycin. Our analyses show that the highest number of differentially expressed genes was identified between naïve and terminally differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, underlining their difference in gene expression signature and respective differentiation stages. Moreover, genes related to early (IL7-R, CCR7, SELL, TCF7, LEF1, BACH2, SATB1, ZEB1 and BCL2) and late (KLRG1, TBX21, PRDM1, CX3CR1, ZEB2, ZNF683, BATF, EZH2 and ID2) stages of CD8+ T-cell differentiation were highly expressed in the naïve and terminally differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, respectively. Intermediate differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets shared a more comparable gene expression profile associated with later stages of T-cell differentiation. Genes associated with cytolytic activity (GNLY, PRF1, GZMB, FASL, IFNG and TNF) were highly expressed in terminally and intermediate differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, while naïve CD8+ T cells lacked expression even after in vitro stimulation. Overall, PMA/ionomycin stimulation induced much stronger upregulation of genes compared to stimulation with ConA. Taken together, we provided comprehensive results showing transcriptional profiles of three differentiation stages of porcine CD8+ T-cell subsets. In addition, our study provides a powerful toolbox for the identification of candidate markers to characterize porcine immune cell subsets in more detail.
Natural killer cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes are the main cell populations of the immune system able to directly kill target cells via cytotoxic granules. Different mammalian species may differ in specific features of their pore-forming protein (perforin) and granule-bound serine proteases (granzymes). One perforin gene (PRF1) and four genes encoding granzymes A, B, H, and K (GZMA, GZMB, GZMH, GZMK) were identified in the reference genomes of felids. The objective of this work was to characterize the genes PRF1, GZMA and GZMB in a panel of 17 felid species by next-generation re-sequencing. A search of available felid genomes (17 species) retrieved the coding sequences of these genes for comparison to our data. Both sets of sequences or their combinations (23 species) were used for phylogenetic and selection analyses. Nucleotide PRF1, GZMA and GZMB sequences showed high similarities between felid species (over 95% identity). All trees derived from coding sequences expressed phylogenetic relationships corresponding to the zoological taxonomy of the Felidae, except GZMA. No effects of positive selection were detected in the genes studied, however, effects of purifying selection were observed for PRF1 and GZMA. The conservation of PRF1 is in agreement with its critical biological function. The differentiation observed between granzyme sub-families may reflect an adaptation to pathogen variation. The need to maintain important gene functions and at the same time cope with various pathogens may lead to an equilibrium between positive and negative selective pressures acting on GZMB. The within-species variability in wild felid populations merits further investigation.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Hepatic inflammation is a hallmark of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Double negative T (DNT) cells are a unique subset of T lymphocytes that do not express CD4, CD8, or natural killer cell markers, and studies have suggested that DNT cells play critical and diverse roles in the immune system. However, the role of intrahepatic DNT cells in NAFLD is largely unknown.METHODS: The proportions and RNA transcription profiling of intrahepatic DNT cells were compared between C57BL/6 mice fed with control diet or methionine-choline-deficient diet for 5 weeks. The functions of DNT cells were tested in vitro and in vivo.RESULTS: The proportion of intrahepatic DNT cells was significantly increased in mice with diet-induced NAFLD. In NAFLD mice, the proportion of intrahepatic TCRγδ+ DNT cells was increased along with elevated interleukin (IL) 17A; in contrast, the percentage of TCRαβ+ DNT cells was decreased, accompanied by reduced granzyme B (GZMB). TCRγδ+ DNT cell depletion resulted in lowered liver IL17A levels and significantly alleviated NAFLD. Adoptive transfer of intrahepatic TCRαβ+ DNT cells from control mice increased intrahepatic CD4 and CD8 T cell apoptosis and inhibited NAFLD progression. Furthermore, we revealed that adrenic acid and arachidonic acid, harmful fatty acids that were enriched in the liver of the mice with NAFLD, could induce apoptosis of TCRαβ+ DNT cells and inhibit their immunosuppressive function and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) or AKT signaling pathway activity. However, arachidonic acid facilitated IL17A secretion by TCRγδ+ DNT cells, and the NF-κB signaling pathway was involved. Finally, we also confirmed the variation of intrahepatic TCRαβ+ DNT cells and TCRγδ+ DNT cells in humans.CONCLUSIONS: During NAFLD progression, TCRγδ+ DNT cells enhance IL17A secretion and aggravate liver inflammation, whereas TCRαβ+ DNT cells decrease GZMB production and lead to weakened immunoregulatory function. Shifting of balance from TCRγδ+ DNT cell response to one that favors TCRαβ+ DNT regulation would be beneficial for the prevention and treatment of NAFLD.
OBJECTIVE: Tumor microenvironment as an important element of malignancy could help predict cancer prognosis and therapeutic response; thus, a prognostic landscape map of the tumor microenvironment in luminal B breast cancers should be developed.METHODS: The GEO and TCGA databases were employed to retrieve clinical follow-up data and expression profiles of luminal B breast cancer. CIBERSORT was applied to assess the infiltration of the tumor microenvironment of 209 patients and to construct tumor microenvironment-based subtypes of luminal B breast cancer. We also conducted Cox multivariate regression analysis to select features that could be used to develop a microenvironment signature for cancer. Samples were categorized as having low and high TME scores according to the median TME score. The correlations of prognosis and TME score, expression levels of immune factors and genomic variation, and clinical features were further investigated.RESULTS: We found that high TME scores were correlated with poor prognosis. The current findings showed that the expressions of multiple immune-related genes, including CXCL9, CXCL10, GZMB, and PDCD1LG2, were upregulated in cancer with high TME scores. The high-risk group showed lower TP53 gene mutation frequency as opposed to that of the low-risk group. For the purpose of developing a TME scoring system, the TME infiltration levels of 209 patients with luminal B breast cancer from TCGA were comprehensively analyzed.CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis revealed that the TME score was an indicator of patients' response to immune checkpoint modulators and an effective prognostic biomarker. TME scoring improves current immunotherapy on luminal B breast cancer.
BACKGROUND: Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is a common cardiovascular disease that has a high mortality. Pyroptosis is a programmed cell death mediated by inflammasome. It remains to be clarified on the expression pattern and risk predictive role of pyroptosis-related genes in AMI.METHODS: The gene expression data were extracted from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), and pyroptosis-related genes were obtained from published articles. Pyroptosis-related differential expressed genes were selected between normal and AMI samples and then we explored their immune infiltration level using CIBERSORT. Univariate Cox and LASSO regression were applied to establish a classifier based on pyroptosis-related genes. ROC analysis was utilized to evaluate the classifier.RESULTS: In this study, we obtained 20 pyroptosis-related genes which showed differential expression in AMI and normal samples. Among the differential expressed genes, GZMB was significantly positively associated with activated NK cells (R = 0.71, p < 0.01), while NLRP3 exhibited a negative correlation with resting NK cells (R = -0.66, p < 0.01). 9 genes (NLRP9, GSDMD, CASP8, AIM2, GPX4, NOD1, NOD2, SCAF11, GSDME) were eventually identified as a predictive risk classifier for AMI patients. With the classifier, patients at high and low risk could be discriminated. Further external validation showed the high accuracy of the classifier (AUC = 0.75).CONCLUSIONS: Pyroptosis-related genes are closely related to immune infiltration in AMI, and a 9-gene classifier has good performance in predicting the risk of AMI with high accuracy, which could provide a new way for targeted treatment in AMI.
Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) kill malignant and infected cells through the directed release of cytotoxic proteins into the immunological synapse (IS). The cytotoxic protein granzyme B (GzmB) is released in its soluble form or in supramolecular attack particles (SMAP). We utilize synaptobrevin2-mRFP knock-in mice to isolate fusogenic cytotoxic granules in an unbiased manner and visualize them alone or in degranulating CTLs. We identified two classes of fusion-competent granules, single core granules (SCG) and multi core granules (MCG), with different diameter, morphology and protein composition. Functional analyses demonstrate that both classes of granules fuse with the plasma membrane at the IS. SCG fusion releases soluble GzmB. MCGs can be labelled with the SMAP marker thrombospondin-1 and their fusion releases intact SMAPs. We propose that CTLs use SCG fusion to fill the synaptic cleft with active cytotoxic proteins instantly and parallel MCG fusion to deliver latent SMAPs for delayed killing of refractory targets.
The unclear mechanism that ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) contributes to the development of primary graft dysfunction (PGD) and chronic lung allograft dysfunction (CLAD) remains a major issue in lung transplantation. Differentially expressed PGD-related genes and CLAD-related genes during IRI (IRI-PGD common genes and IRI-CLAD common genes) were identified using GEO datasets (GSE127003, GSE8021, GSE9102) and GeneCards datasets. Enrichment analysis and four network analyses, namely, protein-protein interaction, microRNA (miRNA)-gene, transcription factor (TF)-gene, and drug-gene networks, were then performed. Moreover, GSE161520 was analyzed to identify the differentially expressed core miRNAs during IRI in rats. Finally, Pearson correlation analysis and ROC analysis were performed. Eight IRI-PGD common genes (IL6, TNF, IL1A, IL1B, CSF3, CXCL8, SERPINE1, and PADI4) and 10 IRI-CLAD common genes (IL1A, ICAM1, CCL20, CCL2, IL1B, TNF, PADI4, CXCL8, GZMB, and IL6) were identified. Enrichment analysis showed that both IRI-PGD and IRI-CLAD common genes were significantly enriched in "AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complication" and "IL-17 signaling pathway". Among the core miRNAs, miR-1-3p and miR-335 were differentially expressed in IRI rats. Among core TFs, CEBPB expression had a significant negative correlation with P/F ratio (r = -0.33, P = 0.021). In the reperfused lung allografts, the strongest positive correlation was exhibited between PADI4 expression and neutrophil proportion (r = 0.76, P < 0.001), and the strongest negative correlation was between PADI4 expression and M2 macrophage proportion (r = -0.74, P < 0.001). In lung allografts of PGD recipients, IL6 expression correlated with activated dendritic cells proportion (r = 0.86, P < 0.01), and IL1B expression correlated with the neutrophils proportion(r = 0.84, P < 0.01). In whole blood of CLAD recipients, GZMB expression correlated with activated CD4+ memory T cells proportion (r = 0.76, P < 0.001).Our study provides the novel insights into the molecular mechanisms by which IRI contributes to PGD and CLAD and potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence of antibody-independent functions, as well as the clinical efficacy of anti-CD20 depleting therapies, helped to reassess the contribution of B cells during multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis.OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether CD19+ B cells may share expression of the serine-protease granzyme-B (GzmB), resembling classical cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes, in the peripheral blood from relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients.METHODS: In this study, 104 RRMS patients during different treatments and 58 healthy donors were included. CD8, CD19, Runx3, and GzmB expression was assessed by flow cytometry analyses.RESULTS: RRMS patients during fingolimod (FTY) and natalizumab (NTZ) treatment showed increased percentage of circulating CD8+GzmB+ T lymphocytes when compared to healthy volunteers. An increase in circulating CD19+GzmB+ B cells was observed in RRMS patients during FTY and NTZ therapies when compared to glatiramer (GA), untreated RRMS patients, and healthy donors but not when compared to interferon-β (IFN). Moreover, regarding Runx3, the transcriptional factor classically associated with cytotoxicity in CD8+ T lymphocytes, the expression of GzmB was significantly higher in CD19+Runx3+-expressing B cells when compared to CD19+Runx3- counterparts in RRMS patients.CONCLUSIONS: CD19+ B cells may exhibit cytotoxic behavior resembling CD8+ T lymphocytes in MS patients during different treatments. In the future, monitoring "cytotoxic" subsets might become an accessible marker for investigating MS pathophysiology and even for the development of new therapeutic interventions.
BACKGROUND: Transcriptomics has identified at-arrival differentially expressed genes associated with bovine respiratory disease (BRD) development; however, their use as prediction molecules necessitates further evaluation. Therefore, we aimed to selectively analyze and corroborate at-arrival mRNA expression from multiple independent populations of beef cattle. In a nested case-control study, we evaluated the expression of 56 mRNA molecules from at-arrival blood samples of 234 cattle across seven populations via NanoString nCounter gene expression profiling. Analysis of mRNA was performed with nSolver Advanced Analysis software (p < 0.05), comparing cattle groups based on the diagnosis of clinical BRD within 28 days of facility arrival (n = 115 Healthy; n = 119 BRD); BRD was further stratified for severity based on frequency of treatment and/or mortality (Treated_1, n = 89; Treated_2+, n = 30). Gene expression homogeneity of variance, receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve, and decision tree analyses were performed between severity cohorts.RESULTS: Increased expression of mRNAs involved in specialized pro-resolving mediator synthesis (ALOX15, HPGD), leukocyte differentiation (LOC100297044, GCSAML, KLF17), and antimicrobial peptide production (CATHL3, GZMB, LTF) were identified in Healthy cattle. BRD cattle possessed increased expression of CFB, and mRNA related to granulocytic processes (DSG1, LRG1, MCF2L) and type-I interferon activity (HERC6, IFI6, ISG15, MX1). Healthy and Treated_1 cattle were similar in terms of gene expression, while Treated_2+ cattle were the most distinct. ROC cutoffs were used to generate an at-arrival treatment decision tree, which classified 90% of Treated_2+ individuals.CONCLUSIONS: Increased expression of complement factor B, pro-inflammatory, and type I interferon-associated mRNA hallmark the at-arrival expression patterns of cattle that develop severe clinical BRD. Here, we corroborate at-arrival mRNA markers identified in previous transcriptome studies and generate a prediction model to be evaluated in future studies. Further research is necessary to evaluate these expression patterns in a prospective manner.
Overexpression of the vacuolar sugar transporter TST1 in Arabidopsis leads to higher seed lipid levels and higher total seed yield per plant. However, effects on fruit biomass have not been observed in crop plants like melon, strawberry, cotton, apple, or tomato with increased tonoplast sugar transporter (TST) activity. Thus, it was unclear whether overexpression of TST in selected crops might lead to increased fruit yield, as observed in Arabidopsis. Here, we report that constitutive overexpression of TST1 from sugar beet in the important crop species Camelina sativa (false flax) resembles the seed characteristics observed for Arabidopsis upon increased TST activity. These effects go along with a stimulation of sugar export from source leaves and not only provoke optimised seed properties like higher lipid levels and increased overall seed yield per plant, but also modify the root architecture of BvTST1 overexpressing Camelina lines. Such mutants grew longer primary roots and showed an increased number of lateral roots, especially when developed under conditions of limited water supply. These changes in root properties result in a stabilisation of total seed yield under drought conditions. In summary, we demonstrate that increased vacuolar TST activity may lead to optimised yield of an oil-seed crop species with high levels of healthy ω3 fatty acids in storage lipids. Moreover, since BvTST1 overexpressing Camelina mutants, in addition, exhibit optimised yield under limited water availability, we might devise a strategy to create crops with improved tolerance against drought, representing one of the most challenging environmental cues today and in future.
CoronaVac vaccine from Sinovac Life Science is currently being used in several countries. In Chile, the effectiveness of preventing hospitalization is higher than 80% with a vaccination schedule. However, to date, there are no data about immune response induction or specific memory. For this reason, we recruited 15 volunteers without previous suspected/diagnosed COVID-19 and with negative PCR over time to evaluate the immune response to CoronaVac 28 and 90 days after the second immunization (dpi). The CoronaVac administration induces total and neutralizing anti-spike antibodies in all vaccinated volunteers at 28 and 90 dpi. Furthermore, using ELISpot analysis to assay cellular immune responses against SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, we found an increase in IFN-gamma- and Granzyme B-producing cells in vaccinated volunteers at 28 and 90 dpi. Together, our results indicate that CoronaVac induces a robust humoral immune response and cellular immune memory of at least 90 dpi.
Osmotic stress is a significant physical challenge for free-living cells. Cells from all three domains of life maintain viability during osmotic stress by tightly regulating the major cellular osmolyte potassium (K+) and by import or synthesis of compatible solutes. It has been widely established that in response to high salt stress, many bacteria transiently accumulate high levels of K+, leading to bacteriostasis, with growth resuming only when compatible solutes accumulate and K+ levels are restored to biocompatible levels. Using Bacillus subtilis as a model system, we provide evidence that K+ fluxes perturb Mg2+ homeostasis: import of K+ upon osmotic upshift is correlated with Mg2+ efflux, and Mg2+ reimport is critical for adaptation. The transient growth inhibition resulting from hyperosmotic stress is coincident with loss of Mg2+ and a decrease in protein translation. Conversely, the reimport of Mg2+ is a limiting factor during resumption of growth. Furthermore, we show the essential signaling dinucleotide cyclic di-AMP fluctuates dynamically in coordination with Mg2+ and K+ levels, consistent with the proposal that cyclic di-AMP orchestrates the cellular response to osmotic stress. IMPORTANCE Environments with high concentrations of salt or other solutes impose an osmotic stress on cells, ultimately limiting viability by dehydration of the cytosol. A very common cellular response to high osmolarity is to immediately import high levels of potassium ion (K+), which helps prevent dehydration and allows time for the import or synthesis of biocompatible solutes that allow a resumption of growth. Here, using Bacillus subtilis as a model, we demonstrate that concomitant with K+ import there is a large reduction in intracellular magnesium (Mg2+) mediated by specific efflux pumps. Further, it is the reimport of Mg2+ that is rate-limiting for the resumption of growth. These coordinated fluxes of K+ and Mg2+ are orchestrated by cyclic-di-AMP, an essential second messenger in Firmicutes. These findings amend the conventional model for osmoadaptation and reveal that Mg2+ limitation is the proximal cause of the bacteriostasis that precedes resumption of growth.
Laccase-mediator-oxidized lignin offers replacement for conventional chemical binders to produce fiberboards. Compared to the previously reported laccase-mediator system (LMS), a lignin-laccase-mediator-system (LLMS) has an advantage in that it requires much shorter fiber-enzyme incubation time due to significantly increased redox reactions. However, the cost of regularly applying laccase on an industrial scale is currently too high. We have employed CcLcc5 from cultures of the basidiomycete Coprinopsis cinerea as a novel basi-laccase (a CAZy subfamily AA1_1 laccase) in medium-density fiberboard (MDF) production, in comparison to the commercial formulation Novozym 51003 with recombinantly produced asco-laccase MtL (a CAZy subfamily AA1_3 laccase-like multicopper oxidase from the ascomycete Myceliophthora thermophila). With the best-performing natural mediator 2,6-dimethoxyphenol (DMP), unpurified CcLcc5 was almost as good as formulated Novozym 51003 in increasing the molecular weight (MW) of the technical lignins tested, the hydrophilic high-MW Ca-lignosulfonate and the hydrophobic low-MW kraft lignin (Indulin AT). Oxygen consumption rates of the two distantly related, poorly conserved enzymes (31% sequence identity) with different mediators and lignosulfonate were also comparable, but Indulin AT significantly reduced the oxidative activity of Novozym 51003 unlike CcLcc5, regardless of the mediator used, either DMP or guaiacol. Oxygen uptake by both laccases was much faster with both technical lignins with DMP than with guaiacol. In case of lignosulfonate and DMP, 20-30 min of incubation was sufficient for full oxygen consumption, which fits in well in time with the usual binder application steps in industrial MDF production processes. LLMS-bonded MDF was thus produced on a pilot-plant scale with either crude CcLcc5 or Novozym 51003 at reduced enzyme levels of 5 kU/kg absolutely dry wood fiber with lignosulfonate and mediator DMP. Boards produced with CcLcc5 were comparably good as those made with Novozym 51003. Boards reached nearly standard specifications in internal bond strength (IB) and modulus of rupture (MOR), while thickness swelling (TS) was less good based on the hydrophilic character of lignosulfonate. LLMS-bonded MDF with Indulin AT and DMP performed better in TS but showed reduced IB and MOR values.
The heterogeneity of exhausted T cells (Tex) is a critical determinant of immune checkpoint blockade therapy efficacy. However, few studies have explored exhausted T cell subpopulations in human cancers. In the present study, we examined samples from two cohorts of 175 patients with head and neck squamous cell cancer (HNSCC) by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC) to investigate two subsets of Tex, CD8+PD1+TCF1+ progenitor exhausted T cells (TCF1+Texprog) and CD8+PD1+TCF1- terminally exhausted T cells (TCF1-Texterm). Moreover, fresh tumor samples from 34 patients with HNSCC were examined by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry to further investigate their properties and cytotoxic capabilities and their correlation with regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME). mIHC and flow cytometry analysis showed that TCF1-Texterm represented a greater proportion of CD8+PD1+Tex than TCF1+Texprog in most patients. TCF1+Texprog produced abundant TNFα, while TCF1-Texterm expressed higher levels of CD103, TIM-3, CTLA-4, and TIGIT. TCF1-Texterm exhibited a polyfunctional TNFα+GZMB+IFNγ+ phenotype; and were associated with better overall survival and recurrence-free survival. The results also indicated that larger proportions of TCF1-Texterm were accompanied by an increase in the proportion of Tregs. Therefore, it was concluded that TCF1-Texterm was the major CD8+PD1+Tex subset in the HNSCC TIME and that these cells favor patient survival. A high proportion of TCF1-Texterm was associated with greater Treg abundance.
Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are innate-like lymphocytes that recognize microbial vitamin B metabolites and have emerging roles in infectious disease, autoimmunity, and cancer. Although MAIT cells are identified by a semi-invariant TCR, their phenotypic and functional heterogeneity is not well understood. Here we present an integrated single cell transcriptomic analysis of over 76,000 human MAIT cells during early and prolonged Ag-specific activation with the MR1 ligand 5-OP-RU and nonspecific TCR stimulation. We show that MAIT cells span a broad range of homeostatic, effector, helper, tissue-infiltrating, regulatory, and exhausted phenotypes, with distinct gene expression programs associated with CD4+ or CD8+ coexpression. During early activation, MAIT cells rapidly adopt a cytotoxic phenotype characterized by high expression of GZMB, IFNG and TNF In contrast, prolonged stimulation induces heterogeneous states defined by proliferation, cytotoxicity, immune modulation, and exhaustion. We further demonstrate a FOXP3 expressing MAIT cell subset that phenotypically resembles conventional regulatory T cells. Moreover, scRNAseq-defined MAIT cell subpopulations were also detected in individuals recently exposed to Mycobacterium tuberculosis, confirming their presence during human infection. To our knowledge, our study provides the first comprehensive atlas of human MAIT cells in activation conditions and defines substantial functional heterogeneity, suggesting complex roles in health and disease.
Cancer treatments have been revolutionized by the emergence of immune checkpoint blockade therapies. However, only a minority of patients with various tumor types have benefited from such treatments. New strategies focusing on the immune contexture of the tumor tissue microenvironment hold great promises. Here, we created IFNα-overexpressing mesenchymal stromal cells (IFNα-MSCs). Upon direct injection into tumors, we found that these cells are powerful in eliminating several types of tumors. Interestingly, the intra-tumoral injection of IFNα-MSCs could also induce specific anti-tumor effects on distant tumors. These IFNα-MSCs promoted tumor cells to produce CXCL10, which in turn potentiates the infiltration of CD8+ T cells in the tumor site. Furthermore, IFNα-MSCs enhanced the expression of granzyme B (GZMB) in CD8+ T cells and invigorated their cytotoxicity in a Stat3-dependent manner. Genetic ablation of Stat3 in CD8+ T cells impaired the effect of IFNα-MSCs on GZMB expression. Importantly, the combination of IFNα-MSCs and PD-L1 blockade induced an even stronger anti-tumor immunity. Therefore, IFNα-MSCs represent a novel tumor immunotherapy strategy, especially when combined with PD-L1 blockade.
BACKGROUND: Osteosarcoma is a common solid malignancy of the bone in children and adolescents, and its metastasis and recurrence are the principal causes of poor treatment outcomes.METHODS: Autophagy-related genes were used to cluster osteosarcoma patients by consensus clustering analysis using the GSE21257 database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by limma package. Multiple-gene risk signature was constructed using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) analysis and Cox regression analyses. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to determine gene expression levels. Then, single-cell RNA-sequencing dataset GSE152048 were used to identify the correlation between the DEGs and effector molecules expressed in specific tumor-infiltrating immune cells.RESULTS: Two clusters were identified in the consensus clustering analysis, which were confirmed by principal component analysis. Limma analysis revealed that 15 genes were related, and 9 genes were screened using protein-protein interaction network and LASSO regression analysis. Cox regression analyses identified 5 genes. Combined with survival analysis, only the autophagy related 16 like 1 gene (ATG16L1) was significant. The results of qRT-PCR showed low expression levels of ATG16L1 in tumor cells group. Immune infiltration analysis revealed significantly lower expression of CD8+ T cells in the high ATG16L1 gene expression group. ScRNA-seq revealed that in the ATG16L1+ CD8 + T cell group, the expression of GZMB was lower, whereas the expression of ITGA1 was higher. These results showed that ATG16L1 is an immune-related gene, which is associated with poor prognosis in patients with osteosarcoma.CONCLUSION: ATG16L1 is a potential prognostic biomarker and immune signature and may be a therapeutic target for osteosarcoma.
BACKGROUND: Most of the known genes required for developmental processes have been identified by genetic screens in a few well-studied model organisms, which have been considered representative of related species, and informative-to some degree-for human biology. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster is a prime model for insect genetics, and while conservation of many gene functions has been observed among bilaterian animals, a plethora of data show evolutionary divergence of gene function among more closely-related groups, such as within the insects. A quantification of conservation versus divergence of gene functions has been missing, without which it is unclear how representative data from model systems actually are.RESULTS: Here, we systematically compare the gene sets required for a number of homologous but divergent developmental processes between fly and beetle in order to quantify the difference of the gene sets. To that end, we expanded our RNAi screen in the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum to cover more than half of the protein-coding genes. Then we compared the gene sets required for four different developmental processes between beetle and fly. We found that around 50% of the gene functions were identified in the screens of both species while for the rest, phenotypes were revealed only in fly (~ 10%) or beetle (~ 40%) reflecting both technical and biological differences. Accordingly, we were able to annotate novel developmental GO terms for 96 genes studied in this work. With this work, we publish the final dataset for the pupal injection screen of the iBeetle screen reaching a coverage of 87% (13,020 genes).CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the gene sets required for a homologous process diverge more than widely believed. Hence, the insights gained in flies may be less representative for insects or protostomes than previously thought, and work in complementary model systems is required to gain a comprehensive picture. The RNAi screening resources developed in this project, the expanding transgenic toolkit, and our large-scale functional data make T. castaneum an excellent model system in that endeavor.
In Bacillus subtilis and other Gram-positive bacteria, cyclic di-AMP is an essential second messenger that signals potassium availability by binding to a variety of proteins. In some bacteria, c-di-AMP also binds to the pyruvate carboxylase to inhibit its activity. We have discovered that in B. subtilis the c-di-AMP target protein DarB, rather than c-di-AMP itself, specifically binds to pyruvate carboxylase both in vivo and in vitro. This interaction stimulates the activity of the enzyme, as demonstrated by in vitro enzyme assays and in vivo metabolite determinations. Both the interaction and the activation of enzyme activity require apo-DarB and are inhibited by c-di-AMP. Under conditions of potassium starvation and corresponding low c-di-AMP levels, the demand for citric acid cycle intermediates is increased. Apo-DarB helps to replenish the cycle by activating both pyruvate carboxylase gene expression and enzymatic activity via triggering the stringent response as a result of its interaction with the (p)ppGpp synthetase Rel and by direct interaction with the enzyme, respectively. IMPORTANCE If bacteria experience a starvation for potassium, by far the most abundant metal ion in every living cell, they have to activate high-affinity potassium transporters, switch off growth activities such as translation and transcription of many genes or replication, and redirect the metabolism in a way that the most essential functions of potassium can be taken over by metabolites. Importantly, potassium starvation triggers a need for glutamate-derived amino acids. In many bacteria, the responses to changing potassium availability are orchestrated by a nucleotide second messenger, cyclic di-AMP. c-di-AMP binds to factors involved directly in potassium homeostasis and to dedicated signal transduction proteins. Here, we demonstrate that in the Gram-positive model organism Bacillus subtilis, the c-di-AMP receptor protein DarB can bind to and, thus, activate pyruvate carboxylase, the enzyme responsible for replenishing the citric acid cycle. This interaction takes place under conditions of potassium starvation if DarB is present in the apo form and the cells are in need of glutamate. Thus, DarB links potassium availability to the control of central metabolism.
This paper addresses the controversy of Granzyme B (GzmB) expression by murine Myeloid Derived Suppressor Cells (MDSCs). MDSCs are a heterogenous immature myeloid population that are generated in chronic inflammatory pathologies for the purpose to suppress inflammatory responses. MDSCs express a multitude of factors to induce suppressive function such as PD-L1, reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and Arginase-1. Recently, Dufait et al. sought to demonstrate GzmB as an additional mechanism for suppression by MDSCs. They reported that murine MDSCs not only significantly express GzmB as well as Perforin (Prf1), but this expression is functionally important for tumor growth in vivo as well as tumor migration in vitro. We conducted experiments to address the same question but made confounding observations: MDSCs under stringent developmental process do not express GzmB. Our results show that not only GzmB protein is not produced at functional level, but the mRNA transcript is not detectable either. In fact, the GzmB protein found in the media of MDSC culture was due to T cells or natural killer cells contained in bone marrow and cultured alongside MDSCs. We strengthen this finding by genetically deleting GzmB from the myeloid lineage and measuring tumor burden compared to WT counterpart. Our results show no significant difference in tumor burden, suggesting that even if there is minor expression of GzmB, it is not produced at a functional amount to affect tumor growth. Therefore, this paper proposes alternative theories that align with the known understanding of GzmB expression and secretion.
Many helminth life cycles, including hookworm, involve a mandatory lung phase, where myeloid and granulocyte subsets interact with the helminth and respond to infection-induced lung injury. To evaluate these innate subsets in Nippostrongylus brasiliensis infection, reporter mice for myeloid cells (CX3CR1GFP ) and granulocytes (PGRPdsRED ) are employed. Nippostrongylus infection induces lung infiltration of reporter cells, including CX3CR1+ myeloid cells and PGRP+ eosinophils. Strikingly, CX3CR1GFP/GFP mice, which are deficient in CX3CR1, are protected from Nippostrongylus infection with reduced weight loss, lung leukocyte infiltration, and worm burden compared to CX3CR1+/+ mice. This protective effect is specific for CX3CR1 as CCR2-deficient mice do not exhibit reduced worm burdens. Nippostrongylus co-culture with lung Ly6C+ monocytes or CD11c+ cells demonstrates that CX3CR1GFP/GFP monocytes secrete more pro-inflammatory cytokines and actively bind the parasites causing reduced motility. RNA sequencing of Ly6C+ or CD11c+ cells shows Nippostrongylus-induced gene expression changes, particularly in monocytes, associated with inflammation, chemotaxis, and extracellular matrix remodeling pathways. Analysis reveals cytotoxic and adhesion molecules as potential effectors against the parasite, such as Gzma and Gzmb, which are elevated in CX3CR1GFP/GFP monocytes. These studies validate a dual innate cell reporter for lung helminth infection and demonstrate that CX3CR1 impairs monocyte-helminth interaction.
Author information:(1)The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Ave, New York, NY 10065, USA.(2)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-TBG), Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany; University of Koblenz-Landau, Institute for Environmental Sciences, Fortstrasse 7, 76829 Landau, Germany; Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany.(3)CE3C - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes, Departamento de Biologia Animal, Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal; Faculdade de Psicologia, Universidade de Lisboa, Alameda da Universidade, 1649-013 Lisboa, Portugal.(4)University of Cambridge, Department of Genetics, Cambridge CB2 3EH, UK; Wellcome Sanger Institute, CB10 1SA, Hinxton, UK.(5)Universita degli Studi di Milano, Via Celoria 26, 20133 Milano, Italy.(6)University of Göttingen, Department of Animal Evolution and Biodiversity, Untere Karspüle, 2, 37073, Germany.(7)University of Florence, Department of Biology, Via Madonna del Piano 6, Sesto Fiorentino (FI) 50019, Italy.(8)CIBIO, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos, InBIO Laboratório Associado, Campus de Vairão, Universidade do Porto, 4485-661 Vairão, Portugal.(9)Estación Biológica de Doñana, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Av. Américo Vespucio, 26, 41092, Spain.(10)Dept. of Ecology and Genetics, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D, 75246, Sweden.(11)German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.(12)InBios - Conservation Genetics Lab, University of Liege, Chemin de la Vallée 4, 4000, Belgium.(13)Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, University of Oslo, Blindernveien 31, 0371 Oslo, Norway; Centre for Coastal Research, University of Agder, Gimlemoen 25j, 4630 Kristiansand, Norway.(14)Groningen Institute of Evolutionary Life Sciences University of Groningen Nijenborgh, 9747, AG, Groningen, the Netherlands; Center for Coastal Studies, 5 Holway Avenue, Provincetown, MA 02657, USA.(15)Marine and Freshwater Research Institute, Fornubúðir, 5, 220 Hanafjörður, Iceland.(16)Department of Biology, University of Antwerp, Groenenborgerlaan 171, 2020, Belgium.(17)University of Göttingen, Institute for Microbiology and Genetics, Dept. of Applied Bioinformatics, Goettingen Center for Molecular Biosciences (GZMB), Campus Institute Data Science (CIDAS), Goldschmidtstr. 1, 37077, Germany.(18)Institute of Zoology, University of Cologne, Zülpicherstrasse 47b, D-50674, Germany.(19)Villum Center for Biodiversity Genomics, Section for Ecology and Evolution, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen, Denmark, Build 3, Universitetsparken 15, Copenhagen 2100, Denmark; China National Genebank, BGI-Shenzhen, Jinsha Road, Dapeng District, Shenzhen 518083, China.(20)Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research (IZW), Alfred-Kowalke-Str 17, 10315 Berlin, Germany.(21)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-TBG), Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany; Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany; Institute for Insect Biotechnology, Justus-Liebig University Gießen, Heinrich-Buff-Ring 26-32, 35392 Giessen, Germany. Electronic address: miklos.balint@senckenberg.de.(22)The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA.(23)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-TBG), Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany; University of Koblenz-Landau, Institute for Environental Sciences, Fortstrasse 7, 76829 Landau, Germany; Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany.(24)University of Cambridge, Department of Genetics, Downing Street, CB2 3EH; Wellcome Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK.(25)Universita degli Studi di Milano, Via Celoria 26, 20133, Italy.(26)University of Göttingen, Department of Animal Evolution and Biodiversity, Untere Karspüle, 2, 37073 Germany.(27)Plant Science and Biodiversity Centre, Slovak Academy of Science, Dúbravská cesta 9, 845 23 Bratislava, Slovakia.(28)CIBIO/InBio, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos, Rua Padre Armando Quintas, 7, 4485-661, Portugal.(29)Estación Biológica de Doñana, Calle Americo Vespucio 26, 41092, Spain.(30)German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077, Germany.(31)Groningen Institute of Evolutionary Life Sciences University of Groningen Nijenborgh, 9747 AG Groningen, The Netherlands; Center for Coastal Studies, 5 Holway Avenue, Provincetown, MA 02657, USA.(32)Marine and Freshwater Research Institute, Fornubúðir, 5,220, Hanafjörður, Iceland.(33)Rockefeller University, 1230 York Ave, New York, NY 10065, USA.(34)University of Goettingen, Institute for Microbiology and Genetics, Dept. of Applied Bioinformatics, Goettingen Center for Molecular Biosciences (GZMB), Campus Institute Data Science (CIDAS), Goldschmidtstr. 1, 37077, Germany.(35)Villum Center for Biodiversity Genomics, Section for Ecology and Evolution, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen, Build 3, Universitetsparken 15, Copenhagen, 2100, Denmark; China National Genebank, BGI-Shenzhen, Jinsha Road, Dapeng District, Shenzhen 518083, China; State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evolution, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Jiaochang East Road, Wupan District, Kunming, Yunnan 650223, China.(36)Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research (IZW), Alfred-Kowalke-Str, 17 10315 Berlin, Germany; Berlin Center for Genomics in Biodiversity Research (BeGenDiv), Koenigin-Luise-Str 6-8, 14195 Berlin, Germany.(37)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-TBG), Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany; Institute for Insect Biotechnology, Justus-Liebig University Gießen, Heinrich-Buff-Ring 26-32, 35392 Giessen, Germany; Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (SBiK-F), Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany.(38)Chair of Zoology, Yerevan State University, 1 Alex Manoogian, Yerevan, 0025, Armenia.(39)CNAG-CRG, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology (BIST), Baldiri i Reixac 4, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.(40)Department of Genetics, Microbiology and Statistics and IRBio, Universitat de Barcelona, Av. Diagonal 643, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.(41)Geneva Natural History Museum, 1 route de Malagnou, 1208 Geneva, Switzerland; University of Geneva, Department of Genetics & Evolution, University of Geneva, 4 Boulevard d'Yvoy, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland.(42)CIBIO/InBIO, University of Porto, Campus of Vairão, 4485-661, Vila do Conde, Portugal; Dep Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Porto, R Campo Alegre, s/n, 4169-007 Porto, Portugal; Wildlife Biology Program, University of Montana, Missoula, MT 59812, USA.(43)cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes / Azorean Biodiversity Group and Universidade dos Açores, Universidade dos Açores, Rua Capitão João d'Àvila, Pico da Urze, 9700-042 Angra do Heroísmo, Azores, Portugal.(44)CIIMAR/CIMAR, Interdisciplinary Centre of Marine and Environmental Research, University of Porto, Terminal de Cruzeiros do Porto de Leixões, Av. General Norton de Matos, s/n, 4450-208 Porto, Portugal; Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Porto, Rua do Campo Alegre, s/n, 4169-007 Porto, Portugal.(45)Instituto de Productos Naturales y Agrobiología (IPNA-CSIC), S.C. La Laguna, 38206, Spain.(46)Institute of Microbiology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Videnska 1083, Praha 4 14220, Czech Republic.(47)University of Agder, Centre for Coastal Research, 25, Universitetsveien, Kristiansand N-4630, Norway; Norwegian Institute for Water Research (NIVA), 21, Gaustadallèen, Oslo N-0349, Norway.(48)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, 46, via Borsari, Ferrara 44121, Italy.(49)Centre for Molecular Biodiversity Research, Zoological Reseach Museum Alexander Koenig Bonn, Leibniz Institute for Animal Biodiversity, Adenauerallee 160, 53113 Bonn, Germany.(50)California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, 3801 W Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91767, USA.(51)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics, Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, 60325 Frankfurt/Main, Germany.(52)UMR5558, CNRS, Université Lyon 1, Université de Lyon, Bât. Grégor Mendel, 43 bd du 11 novembre 1918, Villeurbanne, France 69622.(53)Alliance Bioiversity CIAT, Europe - Montpellier Office, Bioversity International France, Parc Scientifique Agropolis II, 34397 Montpellier Cedex 5, France; French Institute of Bioinformatics (IFB)-South Green Bioinformatics Platform, Bioversity, CIRAD, INRAE, IRD, F-34398 Montpellier, France.(54)University of Primorska, Faculty of Mathematics, Natural Sciences and Information Technologies, Glagoljaška 8, 6000 Koper, Slovenia; Environmental Protection College, Trg mladosti 7, 3320 Velenje, Slovenia.(55)CIIMAR, Interdisciplinary Centre of Marine and Environmental Research, University of Porto, Terminal de Cruzeiros do Porto de Leixões, Avenida General Norton de Matos, Matosinhos 4450-208, Portugal.(56)Interdisciplinary Centre of Marine and Environmental Research, Avenida General Norton de Matos, S/N, Matosinhos 4450-208, Portugal; Faculty of Sciences University of Porto, Rua Campo Alegre s/n, Porto 4169-007, Portugal.(57)University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), 7, Paseo de la Universidad, Vitoria-Gasteiz 01006, Spain; LOEWE-Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-TBG), 25, Senckenberganlage, Frankfurt am Main 60325, Germany.(58)University of Zurich, Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, 107 Zollikerstrasse, Zurich 8008, Switzerland.(59)Arizona State University, 1800 I (Eye) Street, NW, Washington, DC 20006, USA.(60)University of Neuchatel, 11, Emile-Argand, Neuchatel CH-2000, Switzerland.(61)Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes (CE3C), Campus da Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa, C2 Building, Campo Grande 1749-016, Lisboa, Portugal; BioISI- Biosystems and Integrative Sciences Institute, Campus da Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa, Teclabs Building, Campo Grande, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal.(62)Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier (ISEM), CNRS, IRD, EPHE, Université de Montpellier, Place Eugène Bataillon, 34095 Montpellier, France.(63)University of Potsdam, Institute for Biochemistry & Biology, Karl-Liebknecht-Str. 24-25, House 26, Room 2.77, 14476 Potsdam, Germany.(64)Department of Natural History, University Museum of Bergen, University of Bergen, P.O. Box 7800, 5020 Bergen, Norway.(65)CIBIO, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos; InBIO, Laboratório Associado, Universidade do Porto, Campus Agrário de Vairão, Rua Padre Armando Quintas N7, 4485-661 Vairão, Portugal.(66)Senckenberg Research Institute and Natural History Museum, 25 Senckenberganlage, Frankfurt/Main D-60325, Germany.(67)Institute of Evolutionary Biology (CSIC-Universitat Pompeu Fabra), 37-49 Passeig marítim de la Barceloneta, Barcelona 08003, Spain.(68)Università degli Studi di Milano, Via Celoria 10, 20133 Milano, Italy; Univ. Grenoble-Alpes, F-38000 Grenoble, France.(69)Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB), C.P. 160/12, Avenue F.D. Roosevelt 50, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.(70)Barcelona Supercomputing Centre (BSC-CNS), Jordi Girona, 29., , 08034 Barcelona, Spain; Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB), Carrer de Baldiri Reixac, 10, 08028 Barcelona, Spain; Catalan Institution for Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA), Passeig Lluís Companys 23, 08010 Barcelona, Spain.(71)Centre of Molecular Medicine and Biobanking, Tal-Qroqq, Msida, MSD2080, Malta; Ġ.F. Abela Junior College, Department of Biology, Ġuzè Debono Square, Msida MSD 1252, Malta.(72)Department of Biosciences, University of Milan, Milan, Italy, 26, Via Celoria, Milan 20133, Italy.(73)Weill Cornell Medicine, 1300 York Ave, New York, NY 10065, USA.(74)Center for Evolutionary Hologenomics, The GLOBE Institute, The University of Copenhagen, 5A, Oester Farimagsgade, Copenhagen, 1353, Denmark; University Museum, NTNU, 47B, Erling Skakkes gate, Trondheim, Norway.(75)Slovenian Forestry Institute, Večna pot 2, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.(76)The University of Edinburgh, Institute of Evolutionary Biology, School of Biological Sciences, Ash worth Laboratories, Charlotte Auerbach Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3FL, UK; Uppsala University, Department of Ecology and Genetics/Animal Ecology, Norbyvägen 18D, SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden.(77)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, 911, ave Agropolis, Montpellier, 34394, France.(78)Leibniz Institute for the Analysis of Biodiversity Change, Zoological Museum Hamburg, Martin-Luther-King-Platz 3, 20146 Hamburg, Germany.(79)The Arctic University Museum of Norway, UiT - The Arctic University of Norway, P.O. Box 6050, Langnes, Tromsø, N-9037, Norway.(80)Austrian Research Centre for Forests (BFW), 8, Seckendorff-Gudent Weg, Vienna, 1130, Austria.(81)LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity Genomics, Senckenberganlage 25, 60325 Frankfurt, Germany; Senckenberg Society for Nature Research, Senckenberganlage 25, 60325 Frankfurt, Germany; Goethe-University, Faculty of Biosciences, Max-von-Laue-Str. 9, 60438 Frankfurt, Germany.(82)University of Goettiingen, 1 Goldschmidtstr., Goettiingen, 37077, Germany; Campus Institute Data Science (CIDAS), Goettiingen, Germany.(83)Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES), Dept. of Biosciences, University of Oslo, PO Box 1066, Blindern, NO-0316 Oslo, Norway.(84)University of Oslo, Department of Biosciences, Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES), Blindernveien 31, 0371 Oslo, Norway.(85)Technical University in Zvolen, Faculty of Forestry, Department of Phytology, 24, T.G. Masaryka, Zvolen, 960 01, Slovak Republic; DIANA - Carpathian Wildlife Research, 47, Mládežnícka, Banská Bystrica 974 04, Slovak Republic.(86)Institute of Functional Biology and Ecology, Department of Ecology, Univeristy of Warsaw, Faculty of Biology, Ilii, Miecznikowa 1, 02-096 Warszawa, Poland.(87)Institute of Biotechnology, HiLIFE, University of Helsinki, 1, Viikinkaari, Helsinki, 00790, Finland.(88)University of Aberdeen, Zoology Building, Tillydrone Ave, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, AB24 2TZ, UK.(89)Estación Biológica de Doñana (EBD-CSIC), Avd. Americo Vespucio 26, Seville, 41092, Spain.(90)Université de Lyon, Université Lyon 1, CNRS, Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive, UMR 5558, Bat. Mendel, 43 bd du 11 novembre 1918, 69622 Villeurbanne cedex, France.(91)Université Côte d'Azur, CNRS, INSERM, IRCAN, 28 Avenue de Valombrose, 06107 NICE Cedex 2, France.(92)Hellenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR), Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and Aquaculture (IMBBC), Former U.S. Base of Gournes, P.O. Box 2214, 71003, Heraklion, Crete, Greece.(93)Institute of Evolutionary Biology (UPF-CSIC), PRBB, Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003, Spain; Catalan Institution of Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA), Passeig de Lluís Companys, 23, 08010 Barcelona, Spain; CNAG-CRG, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology (BIST), Baldiri i Reixac 4, 08028 Barcelona, Spain.(94)Biology Centre of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Institute of Entomology, Branišovská 1160/31, 37005 České Budějovice, Czech Republic.(95)University of Oslo, 1, Sars' gate, Oslo, 0562, Norway.(96)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, URGI, 78026, Versailles, France.(97)National Institute of Health, 49 Convent Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.(98)Tel Aviv University, School of Zoology, the Steinhardt Museum of Natural History, 12 Klausner street, Tel Aviv 6997801, Israel.(99)CIBIO, Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade e Recursos Genéticos, InBIO Laboratório Associado, Universidade do Porto, 7, Rua Padre Armando Quintas, Vairão, 4485-661, Portugal; Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade do Porto, s/n, Rua do Campo Alegre, Porto 4169-007, Portugal.(100)Centre of Taxonomy and Evolutionary Research, Zoological Reseach Museum Alexander Koenig Bonn, Leibniz Institute for Animal Biodiversity, Adenauerallee 160, 53113 Bonn, Germany.(101)Leibniz Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB), 301, Müggelseedamm, Berlin, 12587, Germany; Institut für Biologie, Freie Universität Berlin, 1-3, Königin-Luise-Str., Berlin 12489, Germany.(102)Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie e Ambientali - Università degli Studi di Milano, 2, Via Celoria, Milan, I-20133, Italy; BAT Center - Interuniversity Center for Studies on Bioinspired Agro-Environmental Technology, University of Napoli Federico II, 100, Via Università, Portici I-80055, Italy.(103)University of Warsaw, Faculty of Biology, Institute of Functional Biology and Ecology, Department of Ecology, Biological and Chemical Research Centre, 101 Zwirki i Wigury, Warszawa, 02-089, Poland.(104)Institut de Systématique, Evolution, Biodiversité (ISYEB), Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle, CNRS, Sorbonne Université, EPHE, Université des Antilles, CP51, 57 rue Cuvier, 75005 Paris, France.(105)Complutense University of Madrid, José Antonio Nováis, 12, Madrid, 28040, Spain.(106)Ruđer Bošković Institute, 54, Bijenička Road, Zagreb, HR-10000, Croatia.(107)Institut Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia Evolutiva (ICBIBE), Universitat de Valencia, Carrer del Catedrátic José Beltrán Martinez 2, 46980 Paterna, Spain.(108)Department of Biology-Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, Biology, Geography, West University of Timisoara, 16A Pestalozzi St., Timisoara, 300115, Romania; Environmental Advanced Research Institute, West University of Timisoara, Vasile Pârvan 4 Bd., Timisoara 300223, Romania.(109)cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes, Departamento de Biologia Animal, Faculdade de Ciências, Universidade de Lisboa, P-1749-016, Lisboa.(110)Ruder Boskovic Institute, Bijenicka 54, Zagreb, 10000, Croatia; Croatian Biospeleological Society, Rooseveltov trg 6, Zagreb 10000, Croatia.(111)ETH Zürich, Landscape Ecology, Institute of Terrestrial Ecosystems, Department of Environmental Systems Science, ETH Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland; Swiss Federal Institute for Forest Snow and Landscape Research WSL, Unit of Land Change Science, Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research WSL, Birmensdorf, Switzerland.(112)Department of Biosciences, Biotechnologies and Biopharmaceutics, University of Bari "A. Moro", Campus "E. Quagliariello", voa Orabona, 4, 70126 Bari, Italy; Institute of Biomembranes, Bioenergetics and Molecular Biotechnologies, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Campus "E. Quagliariello", voa Orabona, 4, 70126 Bari, Italy; Consorzio Interuniversitario Bioteconologie, via Flavia, 23/1, 34148 Trieste, Italy.(113)Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Research Program, University of Helsinki, PO Box 56, 00014, University of Helsinki, Finland; Institute of Biotechnology (HiLIFE), University of Helsinki, PO Box 56, 00014, Finland.(114)Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales - CSIC, C/ José Gutiérrez Abascal, 2, Madrid, 28028, Spain; Natural History Museum of London, Cromwell Road, SW7 5BD London, UK.(115)Naturhistorisches Museum Bern, 15 Bernastrasse, Bern, 3005, Switzerland; Aquatic Ecology and Evolution, Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern, 6 Balzerstrasse, Bern 3012, Switzerland.(116)Dipartimento di Scienze e Politiche Ambientali, Università degli Studi di Milano, Via Celoria 26, Milano, I-20133, Italy.(117)Department of Health, Life & Environmental Sciences - University of L'Aquila, Via Vetoio snc, 67100 L'Aquila-Coppito, Italy.(118)Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern, Baltzerstrasse 6, 3012 Bern, Switzerland; Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Science & Technology, Seestrasse 79, 6047 Kastanienbaum, Switzerland.(119)Molecular Plant Breeding, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, ETH Zurich, Universitaetstrasse 2, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland.(120)Senckenberg Biodiversität und Klima Forschungszentrum: Frankfurt, DE, 25 Senckenberganlage, Frankfurt am Main 60325, Germany.(121)Goethe University, Institute of Ecology, Evolution and Diversity, Max-von-Laue-Str. 13, Frankfurt am Main, 60438, Germany; Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (SBiK-F), Senckenberganlage 25, Frankfurt am Main 60325, Germany; LOEWE Translational Biodiversity Genomics, Georg-Voigt-Str. 14-16, Frankfurt am Main 60325, Germany.(122)Department of Anatomy, University of Otago, 270 Gt King Street, Dunedin, 9016, New Zealand.(123)Department of Aquatic Resources, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, 2, Stångholmsvägen, Drottningholm, 178 93, Sweden; Chair of Aquaculture, Institute of Veterinary Medicine and Animal, Estonian Uiversity of Life Sciences, 56A, Kreutzwaldi, Tartu 51006, Estonia.(124)Conservation Biology Research Group, University of Malta, Taq-Qroqq, Msida, MSD2080, Malta.(125)Conservation Biology Research Group, University of Malta, Msida, MSD2080, Malta.(126)School of Biology, The University of St Andrews, St Andrews, Fife, UK; Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Wundtlaan 1, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.(127)Forest Ecology and Biogeochemical Fluxes Unit, Research and Innovation Centre-Fondazione Edmund Mach, 1, via Edmund Mach, San Michele all'Adige, 38010, Italy.(128)Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales -CSIC, Calle José Gutierrez Abascal 2, 28006, Madrid, Spain.(129)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.(130)Department of Zoology, Stockholm University, 18B, Svante Arrheniusväg, Stockholm, S-10691, Sweden.(131)Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Dept. of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Paleontology & Geobiology, Richard-Wagner-Str. 10, Munich, 80333, Germany; Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, GeoBio-Center, Richard-Wagner-Str. 10, Munich 80333, Germany; SNSB - Bavarian State Collections for Palaeontology and Geology, Richard-Wagner-Str. 10, Munich 80333, Germany.(132)Queen Mary University of London, Mile End Road, London, E5 8HS, United Kingdom; Alan Turing Institute, London NW1 2DB, UK.(133)Department of Biology, University of Malta, Biomedical Sciences Building, MSD2080, Msida, Malta; Centre for Molecular Medicine and Biobanking, Biomedical Sciences Building, MSD2080 Msida, Malta.
This study aimed to investigate the efficacy of Everolimus (EVE) in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in bladder cancer treatment and the underlying mechanisms. In vitro, MB49 cells were exposed to gradient concentrations (0 nM-100 nM) of EVE for 48 h, to investigate the cell viability and cell proliferative potential. In vivo, we applied a subcutaneous tumor mouse model of bladder cancer and the mice were treated with EVE monotherapy (different doses) or in combination with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) agents to study the impacts on tumor growth and explore the immune mechanism. The influences of treatments on peripheral immune profiles and tumor immune microenvironment were also discussed. EVE could inhibit the growth of MB49 cells in vitro. Though high-dose EVE monotherapy could induce tumor regression in vivo, it also contributed to immunosuppression. High-dose EVE inhibited the expression of PD-L1 by inhibiting Th1 cytokine secretion, while combined therapy with PD-1 inhibitors showed no extra profit. Low-dose EVE in combination with PD-1 inhibitors could effectively suppress tumor growth by increasing periphery CD8+ T cell frequency and GZMB+ CD8+ T cell frequency in the tumor microenvironment. High-dose EVE monotherapy induced tumor regression, but with immunosuppression to some content. Combination therapy with low-dose EVE and PD-1 inhibitor could effectively inhibit the growth of bladder tumors by enhancing the antitumor immunity of CD8+ T cells in both periphery and tumor microenvironment.
MDM2 is the principal antagonist of the tumor suppressor p53. p53 binds to its cognate DNA element within promoters and activates the transcription of adjacent genes. These target genes include MDM2. Upon induction by p53, the MDM2 protein binds and ubiquitinates p53, triggering its proteasomal degradation and providing negative feedback. This raises the question whether MDM2 can also remove p53 from its target promoters, and whether this also involves ubiquitination. In the present paper, we employ the MDM2-targeted small molecule Nutlin-3a (Nutlin) to disrupt the interaction of MDM2 and p53 in three different cancer cell lines: SJSA-1 (osteosarcoma), 93T449 (liposarcoma; both carrying amplified MDM2), and MCF7 (breast adenocarcinoma). Remarkably, removing Nutlin from the culture medium for less than five minutes not only triggered p53 ubiquitination, but also dissociated most p53 from its chromatin binding sites, as revealed by chromatin immunoprecipitation. This also resulted in reduced p53-responsive transcription, and it occurred much earlier than the degradation of p53 by the proteasome, arguing that MDM2 removes p53 from promoters prior to and thus independent of degradation. Accordingly, the short-term pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome did not alter the removal of p53 from promoters by Nutlin washout. However, when the proteasome inhibitor was applied for several hours, depleting non-conjugated ubiquitin prior to eliminating Nutlin, this compromised the removal of DNA-bound p53, as did an E1 ubiquitin ligase inhibitor. This suggests that the ubiquitination of p53 by MDM2 is necessary for its clearance from promoters. Depleting the MDM2 cofactor MDM4 in SJSA cells did not alter the velocity by that p53 was removed from promoters upon Nutlin washout. We conclude that MDM2 antagonizes p53 not only by covering its transactivation domain and by destabilization, but also by the rapid, ubiquitin-dependent termination of p53-chromatin interactions.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Gamma-delta (γδ) T cells are involved in the development of diverse liver and autoimmune diseases, whereas the role of γδ T cells in primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) remains unclear.METHODS: We analyzed the number, phenotypes, and functional molecules of both circulating and hepatic γδ T cells in PBC patients and healthy controls (HCs) by flow cytometric analysis and immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: We identified two distinct functional subsets of circulating γδ T cells according to the CD3/TCRγδ complex: the TCRγδhigh and TCRγδlow subsets. Approximately, three-quarters of cells in the TCRγδhigh subset were Vδ1 T cells, while Vδ2 T cells were enriched in the TCRγδlow subset in HCs. The frequency and absolute number of circulating TCRγδlow cells were significantly decreased in PBC patients compared with HCs (p < 0.001). Furthermore, the frequency of TCRγδlow cells was correlated with disease severity and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) response. TCRγδlow cells exhibited a similar apoptotic and proliferative phenotype, but enhanced liver-homing chemokine receptor (CXCR6) expression in PBC patients compared with HCs. In addition, circulating TCRγδlow cells were more activated and produced higher granzyme B (GZMB) in PBC patients compared with HCs. Finally, compared with heathy liver controls, hepatic γδ T cells were increased and infiltrated in the inflamed portal tracts in PBC liver. Furthermore, the number of hepatic γδ T cells was correlated with cholestatic markers and UDCA response.CONCLUSION: The circulating TCRγδlow subset may migrate to the liver via the CXCR6-CXCL16 axis and be involved in the pathogenesis of PBC by increasing GZMB production.
LITMUS was a single-centre, Phase 2a study designed to investigate whether the gene biomarker FGL2/IFNG previously reported for the identification of tolerance in murine models could identify operationally tolerant liver transplant recipients. Multiplex RT-PCR was used to amplify eight immunoregulatory genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 69 adult liver transplant recipients. Patients with PBMC FGL2/IFNG ≥ 1 and a normal liver biopsy underwent immunosuppression (IS) withdrawal. The primary end point was the development of operational tolerance. Secondary end points included correlation of tolerance with allograft gene expression and immune cell markers. Twenty-eight of 69 patients (38%) were positive for the PBMC tolerance biomarker and 23 proceeded to IS withdrawal. Nine of the 23 patients had abnormal baseline liver biopsies and were excluded. Of the 14 patients with normal biopsies, eight (57%) have achieved operational tolerance and are off IS (range 12-57 months). Additional studies revealed that all of the tolerant patients and only one non-tolerant patient had a liver gene ratio of FOXP3/IFNG ≥ 1 prior to IS withdrawal. Increased CD4+ T regulatory T cells were detected both in PBMC and livers of tolerant patients following IS withdrawal. Higher expression of SELE (gene for E-selectin) and lower expression of genes associated with inflammatory responses (GZMB, CIITA, UBD, LSP1, and CXCL9) were observed in the pre-withdrawal liver biopsies of tolerant patients by RNA sequencing. These results suggest that measurement of PBMC FGL2/IFNG may enrich for the identification of operationally tolerant liver transplant patients, especially when combined with intragraft measurement of FOXP3/IFNG. Clinical Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov (LITMUS: NCT02541916).
BACKGROUND: Granzyme B is a key effector of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), and its expression level positively correlates with the response of patients with mesothelioma to immune checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy. Whether metabolic pathways regulate Gzmb expression in CTLs is incompletely understood.METHODS: A tumor-specific CTL and tumor coculture model and a tumor-bearing mouse model were used to determine the role of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) in CTL function and tumor immune evasion. A link between granzyme B expression and patient survival was analyzed in human patients with epithelioid mesothelioma.RESULTS: Mesothelioma cells alone are sufficient to activate tumor-specific CTLs and to enhance aerobic glycolysis to induce a PD-1hi Gzmblo CTL phenotype. However, inhibition of lactate dehydrogenase A, the key enzyme of the aerobic glycolysis pathway, has no significant effect on tumor-induced CTL activation. Tumor cells induce H3K9me3 deposition at the promoter of G6pd, the gene that encodes the rate-limiting enzyme G6PD in the pentose phosphate pathway, to downregulate G6pd expression in tumor-specific CTLs. G6PD activation increases acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) production to increase H3K9ac deposition at the Gzmb promoter and to increase Gzmb expression in tumor-specific CTLs converting them from a Gzmblo to a Gzmbhi phenotype, thus increasing CTL tumor lytic activity. Activation of G6PD increases Gzmb+ tumor-specific CTLs and suppresses tumor growth in tumor-bearing mice. Consistent with these findings, GZMB expression level was found to correlate with increased survival in patients with epithelioid mesothelioma.CONCLUSION: G6PD is a metabolic checkpoint in tumor-activated CTLs. The H3K9me3/G6PD/acetyl-CoA/H3K9ac/Gzmb pathway is particularly important in CTL activation and immune evasion in epithelioid mesothelioma.
In classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL), immunoediting via protein signaling is key to evading tumor surveillance. We aimed to identify immune-related proteins that distinguish diagnostic cHL tissues (=diagnostic tumor lysates, n = 27) from control tissues (reactive lymph node lysates, n = 30). Further, we correlated our findings with the proteome plasma profile between cHL patients (n = 26) and healthy controls (n = 27). We used the proximity extension assay (PEA) with the OlinkTM multiplex Immuno-Oncology panel, consisting of 92 proteins. Univariate, multivariate-adjusted analysis and Benjamini-Hochberg's false discovery testing (=Padj) were performed to detect significant discrepancies. Proteins distinguishing cHL cases from controls were more numerous in plasma (30 proteins) than tissue (17 proteins), all Padj < 0.05. Eight of the identified proteins in cHL tissue (PD-L1, IL-6, CCL17, CCL3, IL-13, MMP12, TNFRS4, and LAG3) were elevated in both cHL tissues and cHL plasma compared with control samples. Six proteins distinguishing cHL tissues from controls tissues were significantly correlated to PD-L1 expression in cHL tissue (IL-6, MCP-2, CCL3, CCL4, GZMB, and IFN-gamma, all p ≤0.05). In conclusion, this study introduces a distinguishing proteomic profile in cHL tissue and potential immune-related markers of pathophysiological relevance.
Effector T cells, which are abundant but are short-lived after reinfusion into the body, are generally used for T-cell therapy, and antitumor immunity is typically not maintained over the long term. Genetic modification by early differentiated T cells and reinfusion has been shown to enhance antitumor immunity in vivo. This study overexpressed the characteristic transcription factors of differentiated early T cells by transfecting effector T cells with transcription factor recombinant lentivirus (S6 group: BCL6, EOMES, FOXP1, LEF1, TCF7, KLF7; S1 group: BCL6, EOMES, FOXP1, KLF7; S3 group: BCL6, EOMES, FOXP1, LEF1) to induce a sufficient number of effector T cells to dedifferentiate and optimize the transcription factor system. The results revealed that overexpression of early characteristic transcription factors in effector T cells upregulated the expression of early T cell differentiation markers (CCR7 and CD62L), with the S1 group having the highest expression level, while the rising trend of late differentiation marker (CD45RO) expression was suppressed. Moreover, the expression of early differentiation-related genes (ACTN1, CERS6, BCL2) was significantly increased, while the expression of late differentiation-related genes (KLRG-1) and effector function-related genes (GNLY, GZMB, PRF1) was significantly decreased; this difference in expression was more significant in the S1 group than in the other two experimental groups. The antiapoptotic ability of each experimental group was significantly enhanced, while the secretion ability of TNF-α and IFN-γ was weakened, with the effector cytokine secretion ability of the S1 group being the weakest. Transcriptomic analysis showed that the gene expression profile of each experimental group was significantly different from that of the control group, with differences in the gene expression pattern and number of differentially expressed genes in the S1 group compared with the other two experimental groups. The differentially expressed gene enrichment pathways were basically related to the cell cycle, cell division, and immune function. In conclusion, overexpression of early characteristic transcription factors in effector T cells induces their dedifferentiation, and induction of dedifferentiation by the S1 group may be more effective.
Intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) are distributed along the length of the intestine and are considered the frontline of immune surveillance. The precise molecular mechanisms, especially epigenetic regulation, of their development and function are poorly understood. The trimethylation of histone 3 at lysine 27 (H3K27Me3) is a kind of histone modifications and associated with gene repression. Kdm6b is an epigenetic enzyme responsible for the demethylation of H3K27Me3 and thus promotes gene expression. Here we identified Kdm6b as an important intracellular regulator of small intestinal IELs. Mice genetically deficient for Kdm6b showed greatly reduced numbers of TCRαβ+CD8αα+ IELs. In the absence of Kdm6b, TCRαβ+CD8αα+ IELs exhibited increased apoptosis, disturbed maturation and a compromised capability to lyse target cells. Both IL-15 and Kdm6b-mediated demethylation of histone 3 at lysine 27 are responsible for the maturation of TCRαβ+CD8αα+ IELs through upregulating the expression of Gzmb and Fasl. In addition, Kdm6b also regulates the expression of the gut-homing molecule CCR9 by controlling H3K27Me3 level at its promoter. However, Kdm6b is dispensable for the reactivity of thymic precursors of TCRαβ+CD8αα+ IELs (IELPs) to IL-15 and TGF-β. In conclusion, we showed that Kdm6b plays critical roles in the maturation and cytotoxic function of small intestinal TCRαβ+CD8αα+ IELs.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is an autoimmune disease with unknown aetiology. To unravel the mechanisms mediating AS pathogenesis, we profiled peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from AS patients and healthy subjects using 10X single-cell RNA sequencing. The frequencies of immune cell subsets were evaluated by flow cytometry. NK cells were purified from PBMCs using isolation kit and were examined for gene expression by RT-qPCR. Plasma levels of cytolytic molecules were examined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Compared to healthy controls, AS patients showed a significant decrease in total NK cells as well as CD56dim NK subset, whereas CD56bright NK cells were increased. Additionally, impaired expression of cytotoxic genes in NK cells of AS patients was observed by bioinformatics algorithm and verified by RT-qPCR and flow cytometry. Consistent with changes in transcriptomics, we found decreased plasma levels of granzymes, but not granulysin, in AS patients. Furthermore, Pearson correlation analysis revealed a negative correlation between plasma GZMB levels and disease activity (r = -0.5275, p = 0.0358). No correlation was observed between plasma cytolytic molecules and biochemical indexes (ESR and CRP). Our findings uncover altered NK cell subsets and cytotoxic profiles in peripheral circulation of AS patients at single-cell resolution.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID19), caused by SARS-CoV-2, is a complex disease, with a variety of clinical manifestations ranging from asymptomatic infection or mild cold-like symptoms to more severe cases requiring hospitalization and critical care. The most severe presentations seem to be related with a delayed, deregulated immune response leading to exacerbated inflammation and organ damage with close similarities to sepsis. Methods: In order to improve the understanding on the relation between host immune response and disease course, we have studied the differences in the cellular (monocytes, CD8+ T and NK cells) and soluble (cytokines, chemokines and immunoregulatory ligands) immune response in blood between Healthy Donors (HD), COVID19 and a group of patients with non-COVID19 respiratory tract infections (NON-COV-RTI). In addition, the immune response profile has been analyzed in COVID19 patients according to disease severity. Results: In comparison to HDs and patients with NON-COV-RTI, COVID19 patients show a heterogeneous immune response with the presence of both activated and exhausted CD8+ T and NK cells characterised by the expression of the immune checkpoint LAG3 and the presence of the adaptive NK cell subset. An increased frequency of adaptive NK cells and a reduction of NK cells expressing the activating receptors NKp30 and NKp46 correlated with disease severity. Although both activated and exhausted NK cells expressing LAG3 were increased in moderate/severe cases, unsupervised cell clustering analyses revealed a more complex scenario with single NK cells expressing more than one immune checkpoint (PD1, TIM3 and/or LAG3). A general increased level of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines was found in COVID19 patients, some of which like IL18, IL1RA, IL36B and IL31, IL2, IFNα and TNFα, CXCL10, CCL2 and CCL8 were able to differentiate between COVID19 and NON-COV-RTI and correlated with bad prognosis (IL2, TNFα, IL1RA, CCL2, CXCL10 and CXCL9). Notably, we found that soluble NKG2D ligands from the MIC and ULBPs families were increased in COVID19 compared to NON-COV-RTI and correlated with disease severity. Conclusions: Our results provide a detailed comprehensive analysis of the presence of activated and exhausted CD8+T, NK and monocyte cell subsets as well as extracellular inflammatory factors beyond cytokines/chemokines, specifically associated to COVID19. Importantly, multivariate analysis including clinical, demographical and immunological experimental variables have allowed us to reveal specific immune signatures to i) differentiate COVID19 from other infections and ii) predict disease severity and the risk of death.
BACKGROUND: The recent emergence of COVID-19, rapid worldwide spread, and incomplete knowledge of molecular mechanisms underlying SARS-CoV-2 infection have limited development of therapeutic strategies. Our objective was to systematically investigate molecular regulatory mechanisms of COVID-19, using a combination of high throughput RNA-sequencing-based transcriptomics and systems biology approaches.METHODS: RNA-Seq data from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of healthy persons, mild and severe 17 COVID-19 patients were analyzed to generate a gene expression matrix. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify co-expression modules in healthy samples as a reference set. For differential co-expression network analysis, module preservation and module-trait relationships approaches were used to identify key modules. Then, protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, based on co-expressed hub genes, were constructed to identify hub genes/TFs with the highest information transfer (hub-high traffic genes) within candidate modules.RESULTS: Based on differential co-expression network analysis, connectivity patterns and network density, 72% (15 of 21) of modules identified in healthy samples were altered by SARS-CoV-2 infection. Therefore, SARS-CoV-2 caused systemic perturbations in host biological gene networks. In functional enrichment analysis, among 15 non-preserved modules and two significant highly-correlated modules (identified by MTRs), 9 modules were directly related to the host immune response and COVID-19 immunopathogenesis. Intriguingly, systemic investigation of SARS-CoV-2 infection identified signaling pathways and key genes/proteins associated with COVID-19's main hallmarks, e.g., cytokine storm, respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), acute lung injury (ALI), lymphopenia, coagulation disorders, thrombosis, and pregnancy complications, as well as comorbidities associated with COVID-19, e.g., asthma, diabetic complications, cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), liver disorders and acute kidney injury (AKI). Topological analysis with betweenness centrality (BC) identified 290 hub-high traffic genes, central in both co-expression and PPI networks. We also identified several transcriptional regulatory factors, including NFKB1, HIF1A, AHR, and TP53, with important immunoregulatory roles in SARS-CoV-2 infection. Moreover, several hub-high traffic genes, including IL6, IL1B, IL10, TNF, SOCS1, SOCS3, ICAM1, PTEN, RHOA, GDI2, SUMO1, CASP1, IRAK3, HSPA5, ADRB2, PRF1, GZMB, OASL, CCL5, HSP90AA1, HSPD1, IFNG, MAPK1, RAB5A, and TNFRSF1A had the highest rates of information transfer in 9 candidate modules and central roles in COVID-19 immunopathogenesis.CONCLUSION: This study provides comprehensive information on molecular mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2-host interactions and identifies several hub-high traffic genes as promising therapeutic targets for the COVID-19 pandemic.
BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths, with a 5% 5-year survival rate for metastatic disease, yet with limited therapeutic advancements due to insufficient understanding of and inability to accurately capture high-risk CRC patients who are most likely to recur. We aimed to improve high-risk classification by identifying biological pathways associated with outcome in adjuvant stage II/III CRC.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We included 1062 patients with stage III or high-risk stage II colon carcinoma from the prospective three-arm randomized phase 3 AVANT trial, and performed expression profiling to identify a prognostic signature. Data from validation cohort GSE39582, The Cancer Genome Atlas, and cell lines were used to further validate the prognostic biology. Our retrospective analysis of the adjuvant AVANT trial uncovered a prognostic signature capturing three biological functions-stromal, proliferative and immune-that outperformed the Consensus Molecular Subtypes (CMS) and recurrence prediction signatures like Oncotype Dx in an independent cohort. Importantly, within the immune component, high granzyme B (GZMB) expression had a significant prognostic impact while other individual T-effector genes were less or not prognostic. In addition, we found GZMB to be endogenously expressed in CMS2 tumor cells and to be prognostic in a T cell independent fashion. A limitation of our study is that these results, although robust and derived from a large dataset, still need to be clinically validated in a prospective study.CONCLUSIONS: This work furthers our understanding of the underlying biology that propagates stage II/III CRC disease progression and provides scientific rationale for future high-risk stratification and targeted treatment evaluation in biomarker defined subpopulations of resectable high-risk CRC. Our results also shed light on an alternative GZMB source with context-specific implications on the disease's unique biology.
VAPB (Vesicle-Associated-membrane Protein-associated protein B) is a tail-anchored membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that can also be detected at the inner nuclear membrane. As a component of many contact sites between the endoplasmic reticulum and other organelles, VAPB is engaged in multiple protein interactions with a plethora of binding partners. A mutant version of VAPB, P56S-VAPB, which results from a single point mutation, is involved in a familial form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS8). We performed RAPIDS (rapamycin- and APEX-dependent identification of proteins by SILAC) to identify proteins that interact with or are in close proximity to P56S-VAPB. The mutation abrogates the interaction of VAPB with many known binding partners. Here, we identify Sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1), a well-known autophagic adapter protein, as a major interaction/proximity partner of P56S-VAPB. Remarkably, not only the mutant protein, but also wild-type VAPB interacts with SQSTM1, as shown by proximity ligation assays and co-immunoprecipiation experiments.
Healthy and controlled immune response in COVID-19 is crucial for mild forms of the disease. Although CD8+ T cells play important role in this response, there is still a lack of studies showing the gene expression profiles in those cells at the beginning of the disease as potential predictors of more severe forms after the first week. We investigated a proportion of different subpopulations of CD8+ T cells and their gene expression patterns for cytotoxic proteins (perforin-1 (PRF1), granulysin (GNLY), granzyme B (GZMB), granzyme A (GZMA), granzyme K (GZMK)), cytokine interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and apoptotic protein Fas ligand (FASL) in CD8+ T cells from peripheral blood in first weeks of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Sixteen COVID-19 patients and nine healthy controls were included. The absolute counts of total lymphocytes (p = 0.007), CD3+ (p = 0.05), and CD8+ T cells (p = 0.01) in COVID-19 patients were significantly decreased compared to healthy controls. In COVID-19 patients in CD8+ T cell compartment, we observed lower frequency effector memory 1 (EM1) (p = 0.06) and effector memory 4 (EM4) (p < 0.001) CD8+ T cells. Higher mRNA expression of PRF1 (p = 0.05) and lower mRNA expression of FASL (p = 0.05) at the fifth day of the disease were found in COVID-19 patients compared to healthy controls. mRNA expression of PRF1 (p < 0.001) and IFN-γ (p < 0.001) was significantly downregulated in the first week of disease in COVID-19 patients who progressed to moderate and severe forms after the first week, compared to patients with mild symptoms during the entire disease course. GZMK (p < 0.01) and FASL (p < 0.01) mRNA expression was downregulated in all COVID-19 patients compared to healthy controls. Our results can lead to a better understanding of the inappropriate immune response of CD8+ T cells in SARS-CoV2 with the faster progression of the disease.
To improve the treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), a promising strategy consists of personalized chemotherapy based on gene expression profiles. Investigating a panel of PDAC-derived human cell lines, we found that their sensitivities towards cisplatin fall in two distinct classes. The platinum-sensitive class is characterized by the expression of GATA6, miRNA-200a, and miRNA-200b, which might be developable as predictive biomarkers. In the case of resistant PDAC cells, we identified a synergism of cisplatin with HSP90 inhibitors. Mechanistic explanations of this synergy include the degradation of Fanconi anemia pathway factors upon HSP90 inhibition. Treatment with the drug combination resulted in increased DNA damage and chromosome fragmentation, as we have reported previously for ovarian cancer cells. On top of this, HSP90 inhibition also enhanced the accumulation of DNA-bound platinum. We next investigated an orthotopic syngeneic animal model consisting of tumors arising from KPC cells (LSL-KrasG12D/+; LSL-Trp53R172H/+; Pdx-1-Cre, C57/BL6 genetic background). Here again, when treating established tumors, the combination of cisplatin with the HSP90 inhibitor onalespib was highly effective and almost completely prevented further tumor growth. We propose that the combination of platinum drugs and HSP90 inhibitors might be worth testing in the clinics for the treatment of cisplatin-resistant PDACs.
The streptophyte algal class Zygnematophyceae is the closest algal sister lineage to land plants. In nature, Zygnematophyceae can grow in both terrestrial and freshwater habitats and how they do this is an important unanswered question. Here, we studied what happens to the zygnematophyceaen alga Mougeotia sp., which usually occurs in permanent and temporary freshwater bodies, when it is shifted to liquid growth conditions after growth on a solid substrate. Using global differential gene expression profiling, we identified changes in the core metabolism of the organism interlinked with photosynthesis; the latter went hand in hand with measurable impact on the photophysiology as assessed via pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) fluorometry. Our data reveal a pronounced change in the overall physiology of the alga after submergence and pinpoint candidate genes that play a role. These results provide insight into the importance of photophysiological readjustment when filamentous Zygnematophyceae transition between terrestrial and aquatic habitats.
Although tumor-infiltrating T cells hold a beneficial prognostic role in colorectal cancer, other lymphocytic populations are less characterized. We developed a multiplexed immunofluorescence assay coupled with digital image analysis and machine learning to identify natural killer (NK) cells (NCAM1+CD3-), natural killer T-like (NKT-like) cells (NCAM1+CD3+), and T cells (NCAM1-CD3+) within the PTPRC+ (CD45+) cell population and to measure their granzyme B (GZMB; cytotoxicity marker) and FCGR3A (CD16a; NK-cell maturity marker) expression. We evaluated immune cell densities and spatial configuration in 907 incident colorectal carcinoma cases within two prospective cohort studies. We found that T cells were approximately 100 times more abundant than NK and NKT-like cells. Overall, NK cells showed high GZMB expression and were located closer to tumor cells than T and NKT-like cells. In T and NKT-like cells, GZMB expression was enriched in cells in closer proximity to tumor cells. Higher densities of both T and NKT-like cells associated with longer cancer-specific survival, independent of potential confounders (P trend < 0.0007). Higher stromal GZMB+ and FCGR3A+ NK-cell densities associated with longer cancer-specific survival (P trend < 0.003). For T and NKT-like cells, greater proximity to tumor cells associated with longer cancer-specific survival (P trend < 0.0001). These findings indicate that cytotoxic NCAM1+CD3-GZMB+ NK cells and NCAM1+CD3+ NKT-like cells are relatively rare lymphocytic populations within the colorectal cancer microenvironment and show distinct spatial configuration and associations with patient outcome. The results highlight the utility of a quantitative multimarker assay for in situ, single-cell immune biomarker evaluation and underscore the importance of spatial context for tumor microenvironment characterization.
Pollen tubes require a tightly regulated pectin secretion machinery to sustain the cell wall plasticity required for polar tip growth. Involved in this regulation at the apical plasma membrane are proteins and signaling molecules, including phosphoinositides and phosphatidic acid (PA). However, the contribution of diacylglycerol kinases (DGKs) is not clear. We transiently expressed tobacco DGKs in pollen tubes to identify a plasma membrane (PM)-localized isoform, and then to study its effect on pollen tube growth, pectin secretion and lipid signaling. In order to potentially downregulate DGK5 function, we overexpressed an inactive variant. Only one of eight DGKs displayed a confined localization at the apical PM. We could demonstrate its enzymatic activity and that a kinase-dead variant was inactive. Overexpression of either variant led to differential perturbations including misregulation of pectin secretion. One mode of regulation could be that DGK5-formed PA regulates phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinases, as overexpression of the inactive DGK5 variant not only led to a reduction of PA but also of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate levels and suppressed related growth phenotypes. We conclude that DGK5 is an additional player of polar tip growth that regulates pectin secretion probably in a common pathway with PI4P 5-kinases.
T cell factor 1 (Tcf1) is known as a critical mediator for natural killer (NK) cell development and terminal maturation. However, its essential targets and precise mechanisms involved in early NK progenitors (NKP) are not well clarified. To investigate the role of Tcf1 in NK cells at distinct developmental phases, we employed three kinds of genetic mouse models, namely, Tcf7fl/flVavCre/+, Tcf7fl/flCD122Cre/+ and Tcf7fl/flNcr1Cre/+ mice, respectively. Similar to Tcf1 germline knockout mice, we found notably diminished cell number and defective development in BM NK cells from all strains. In contrast, Tcf7fl/flNcr1Cre/+ mice exhibited modest defects in splenic NK cells compared with those in the other two strains. By analyzing the published ATAC-seq and ChIP-seq data, we found that Tcf1 directly targeted 110 NK cell-related genes which displayed differential accessibility in the absence of Tcf1. Along with this clue, we further confirmed that a series of essential regulators were expressed aberrantly in distinct BM NK subsets with conditional ablating Tcf1 at NKP stage. Eomes, Ets1, Gata3, Ikzf1, Ikzf2, Nfil3, Runx3, Sh2d1a, Slamf6, Tbx21, Tox, and Zeb2 were downregulated, whereas Spi1 and Gzmb were upregulated in distinct NK subsets due to Tcf1 deficiency. The dysregulation of these genes jointly caused severe defects in NK cells lacking Tcf1. Thus, our study identified essential targets of Tcf1 in NK cells, providing new insights into Tcf1-dependent regulatory programs in step-wise governing NK cell development.
BACKGROUND: Wax esters (WE) are neutral lipids that consist of a fatty alcohol esterified to a fatty acid. WE are valuable feedstocks in industry for producing lubricants, coatings, and cosmetics. They can be produced chemically from fossil fuel or plant-derived triacylglycerol. As fossil fuel resources are finite, the synthesis of WE in transgenic plants may serve as an alternative source. As chain length and desaturation of the alcohol and acyl moieties determine the physicochemical properties of WE and their field of application, tightly controlled and tailor-made WE synthesis in plants would be a sustainable, beneficial, and valuable commodity. Here, we report the expression of ten combinations of WE producing transgenes in Arabidopsis thaliana. In order to study their suitability for WE production in planta, we analyzed WE amount and composition in the transgenic plants.RESULTS: The transgenes consisted of different combinations of a FATTY ACYL-COA/ACP REDUCTASE (FAR) and two WAX SYNTHASES/ACYL-COA:DIACYLGLYCEROL O-ACYLTRANSFERASES (WSD), namely WSD2 and WSD5 from the bacterium Marinobacter aquaeoleoi. We generated constructs with and without plastidial transit peptides to access distinct alcohol and acyl substrate pools within A. thaliana cells. We observed WE formation with plastid and cytosol-localized FAR and WSD in seeds. A comparative WE analysis revealed the production of shorter and more saturated WE by plastid-localized WE biosynthesis compared to cytosolic WE synthesis.CONCLUSIONS: A shift of WE formation into seed plastids is a suitable approach for tailor-made WE production and can be used to synthesize WE that are mainly derived from mid- and long-chain saturated and monounsaturated substrates.
Ceramides (Cers) and long-chain bases (LCBs) are plant sphingolipids involved in the induction of plant programmed cell death (PCD). The fatty acid hydroxylase mutant fah1 fah2 exhibits high Cer levels and moderately elevated LCB levels. Salicylic acid glucoside level is increased in this mutant, but no cell death can be detected by trypan blue staining. To determine the effect of Cers with different chain lengths, fah1 fah2 was crossed with ceramide synthase mutants longevity assurance gene one homologue1-3 (loh1, loh2 and loh3). Surprisingly, only triple mutants with loh2 show cell death detected by trypan blue staining under the selected conditions. Sphingolipid profiling revealed that the greatest differences between the triple mutant plants are in the LCB and LCB-phosphate (LCB-P) fraction. fah1 fah2 loh2 plants accumulate LCB d18:0, LCB t18:0 and LCB-P d18:0. Crossing fah1 fah2 loh2 with the salicylic acid (SA) synthesis mutant sid2-2 and with the SA signaling mutants enhanced disease susceptibility 1-2 (eds1-2) and phytoalexin deficient 4-1 (pad4-1) revealed that lesions are SA- and EDS1-dependent. These quadruple mutants also confirm that there may be a feedback loop between SA and sphingolipid metabolism as they accumulated less Cers and LCBs. In conclusion, PCD in fah1 fah2 loh2 is a SA- and EDS1-dependent phenotype, which is likely due to accumulation of LCBs.
BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence has indicated that pyroptosis could regulate the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) to affect the tumor development. As a highly immunogenic tumor, clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) can benefit from immunotherapy, but related research on pyroptosis in the TIME of ccRCC is still deficient.METHODS: Available data derived from TCGA and GEO databases were analyzed to identify the different expression profiles of pyroptosis in ccRCC and normal tissues, and the correlation of pyroptosis regulators with TIME was evaluated in ccRCC.RESULTS: According to consensus clustering analysis, two differential expression levels of subtypes were identified to affect patient prognosis, and were related to histological tumor stage and grade. Immune cells were calculated by the CIBERSORT algorithm. Higher infiltrated levels of B cells naive, T cells CD4 memory resting, NK cells resting, monocytes, macrophages were observed in Cluster 1, while higher infiltrated levels of CD8+ T cells, T follicular helper cells, and Tregs were observed in Cluster 2. Gene set enrichment analysis indicated that Cluster 2 was enriched in multiple immune-related pathways, including the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Moreover, overexpression of eight immune checkpoints was related to ccRCC development, especially in Cluster 2. As four potentially key pyroptosis regulators, AIM2, CASP5, NOD2, and GZMB were confirmed to be upregulated in ccRCC by RT-qPCR analysis and further verified by the HPA database. Further pan-cancer analysis suggested that these four pyroptosis regulators were differentially expressed and related to the TIME in multiple cancers.CONCLUSION: The present study provided a comprehensive view of pyroptosis regulators in the TIME of ccRCC, which may provide potential value for immunotherapy.
Identification of type 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILC1s) has been problematic. The transcription factor Hobit encoded by Zfp683 has been proposed as a major driver of ILC1 programs. Using Zfp683 reporter mice, we showed that correlation of Hobit expression with ILC1s is tissue- and context-dependent. In liver and intestinal mucosa, Zfp683 expression correlated well with ILC1s; in salivary glands, Zfp683 was coexpressed with the natural killer (NK) master transcription factors Eomes and TCF1 in a unique cell population, which we call ILC1-like NK cells; during viral infection, Zfp683 was induced in conventional NK cells of spleen and liver. The impact of Zfp683 deletion on ILC1s and NK cells was also multifaceted, including a marked decrease in granzyme- and interferon-gamma (IFNγ)-producing ILC1s in the liver, slightly fewer ILC1s and more Eomes+ TCF1+ ILC1-like NK cells in salivary glands, and only reduced production of granzyme B by ILC1 in the intestinal mucosa. NK cell-mediated control of viral infection was unaffected. We conclude that Hobit has two major impacts on ILC1s: It sustains liver ILC1 numbers, while promoting ILC1 functional maturation in other tissues by controlling TCF1, Eomes, and granzyme expression.
Because of their photosynthesis-dependent lifestyle, cyanobacteria evolved sophisticated regulatory mechanisms to adapt to oscillating day-night metabolic changes. How they coordinate the metabolic switch between autotrophic and glycogen-catabolic metabolism in light and darkness is poorly understood. Recently, c-di-AMP has been implicated in diurnal regulation, but its mode of action remains elusive. To unravel the signaling functions of c-di-AMP in cyanobacteria, we isolated c-di-AMP receptor proteins. Thereby, the carbon-sensor protein SbtB was identified as a major c-di-AMP receptor, which we confirmed biochemically and by x-ray crystallography. In search for the c-di-AMP signaling function of SbtB, we found that both SbtB and c-di-AMP cyclase–deficient mutants showed reduced diurnal growth and that c-di-AMP–bound SbtB interacts specifically with the glycogen-branching enzyme GlgB. Accordingly, both mutants displayed impaired glycogen synthesis during the day and impaired nighttime survival. Thus, the pivotal role of c-di-AMP in day-night acclimation can be attributed to SbtB-mediated regulation of glycogen metabolism.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide, and tumor metastasis is the leading cause of death. Targeting immune inhibitory checkpoint inhibitory pathways has attracted great attention, since the therapeutic efficacy induced by the specific blocking antibodies has been demonstrated even in metastatic CRC patients. However, the clinical outcome is low in many cases, and thus more effective treatments are needed in the clinical settings. A SPARC family member follistatin-like 1 (FSTL1) is known as a key driver of tumor metastasis in various types of cancer. However, the immunological roles of the FSTL1 in the CRC pathogenesis remain to be elucidated. In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the refractory FSTL1+ CRC using murine and human FSTL1-transduced CRC cells. Also, based on the results, we evaluated anti-tumor efficacy induced by agents targeting the identified molecules using murine CRC metastasis models, and validated the clinical relevancy of the basic findings using tumor tissues and peripheral blood obtained from CRC patients. FSTL1 transduction conferred EMT-like properties, such as low proliferative (dormant) and high invasive abilities, on tumor cells. When the transfectants were subcutaneously implanted in mice, CD11b+DIP2A+LAG3+ cells were abundantly expanded locally and systemically in the mice. Simultaneously, apoptotic T cells increased and were lastly excluded from the tumor tissues, allowing tumor aggravation leading to resistance to anti-PD1/PDL1 treatment. Blocking FSTL1 and LAG3, however, significantly suppressed the apoptosis induction, and successfully induced anti-tumor immune responses in the CRC metastasis models. Both treatments synergized in providing better prognosis of the mice. FSTL1 was significantly upregulated in tumor tissues and peripheral blood of CRC patients, and the CD11b+DIP2A+LAG3+ cells were significantly expanded in the PBMCs as compared to those of healthy donors. The expansion level was significantly correlated with decrease of potent Ki67+GZMB+ CTLs. These results suggest that the FSTL1-induced CD11b+DIP2A+LAG3+ cells are a key driver of immune dysfunction in CRC. Targeting the FSTL1-LAG3 axis may be a promising strategy for treating metastatic CRC, and anti-FSTL1/LAG3 combination regimen may be practically useful in the clinical settings.
A disposable amperometric biosensor with a dual monomers-based bioconjugate was developed for granzyme B (GzmB) detection and for monitoring of the cancer progression of patients before and after immunotherapy. The biosensor was fabricated by immobilizing a GzmB monoclonal antibody (Ab1) on a poly3'-(2-aminopyrimidyl)-2,2':5',2''-terthiophene/gold nanoparticle (pPATT/AuNP) layer. The bioconjugate nanoparticles were synthesized through self-assembly of a monomer mixture of 2,2:5,2-terthiophene-3-(p-benzoic acid) (TBA) and PATT onto AuNPs, followed by chemical binding of brilliant cresyl blue (BCB) on TBA and GzmB polyclonal antibody (Ab2) on the PATT layer. Each sensing layer was investigated by surface analysis and electrochemical experiments. The sensor performance was assessed with selectivity, stability, reproducibility, detection limit, and real sample analysis. Under the optimized conditions, the dynamic range of GzmB was in two slopes from 3.0 to 50.0 pg/ml and from 50.0 to 1000.0 pg/ml with a detection limit of 1.75 ± 0.14 pg/ml (RSD ≤5.2%). GzmB monitoring was performed for the patient's serum samples, where a low level of GzmB was observed for lung cancer patients before immunotherapy (10.51 ± 0.99 pg/ml, RSD ≤6.2%), and the level was increased after therapy (17.19 ± 2.22 pg/ml, RSD ≤2.6%). Moreover, a significantly higher level was present in healthy persons (34.40 ± 3.92 pg/ml, RSD ≤1.4%). The cancer progression of patients before and after therapy was evaluated by monitoring GzmB levels in human serum using the proposed sensor.
RNA interference (RNAi) has emerged as a powerful tool for knocking-down gene function in diverse taxa including arthropods for both basic biological research and application in pest control. The conservation of the RNAi mechanism in eukaryotes suggested that it should-in principle-be applicable to most arthropods. However, practical hurdles have been limiting the application in many taxa. For instance, species differ considerably with respect to efficiency of dsRNA uptake from the hemolymph or the gut. Here, we review some of the most frequently encountered technical obstacles when establishing RNAi and suggest a robust procedure for establishing this technique in insect species with special reference to pests. Finally, we present an approach to identify the most effective target genes for the potential control of agricultural and public health pests by RNAi.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Excessive shedding of apoptotic enterocytes into the intestinal lumen is observed in inflammatory bowel disease and is correlated with disease relapse. Based on their cytolytic capacity and surveillance behavior, we investigated whether intraepithelial lymphocytes expressing the γδ T cell receptor (γδ IELs) are actively involved in the shedding of enterocytes into the lumen.METHODS: Intravital microscopy was performed on GFP γδ T cell reporter mice treated with intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide (10 mg/kg) for 90 minutes to induce tumor necrosis factor-mediated apoptosis. Cell shedding in various knockout or transgenic mice in the presence or absence of blocking antibody was quantified by immunostaining for ZO-1 funnels and cleaved caspase-3 (CC3). Granzyme A and granzyme B release from ex vivo-stimulated γδ IELs was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Immunostaining for γδ T cell receptor and CC3 was performed on duodenal and ileal biopsies from controls and patients with Crohn's disease.RESULTS: Intravital microscopy of lipopolysaccharide-treated mice revealed that γδ IELs make extended contact with shedding enterocytes. These prolonged interactions require CD103 engagement by E-cadherin, and CD103 knockout or blockade significantly reduced lipopolysaccharide-induced shedding. Furthermore, we found that granzymes A and B, but not perforin, are required for cell shedding. These extracellular granzymes are released by γδ IELs both constitutively and after CD103/E-cadherin ligation. Moreover, we found that the frequency of γδ IEL localization to CC3-positive enterocytes is increased in Crohn's disease biopsies compared with healthy controls.CONCLUSIONS: Our results uncover a previously unrecognized role for γδ IELs in facilitating tumor necrosis factor-mediated shedding of apoptotic enterocytes via CD103-mediated extracellular granzyme release.
Identifying essential genes on a genome scale is resource intensive and has been performed for only a few eukaryotes. For less studied organisms essentiality might be predicted by gene homology. However, this approach cannot be applied to non-conserved genes. Additionally, divergent essentiality information is obtained from studying single cells or whole, multi-cellular organisms, and particularly when derived from human cell line screens and human population studies. We employed machine learning across six model eukaryotes and 60 381 genes, using 41 635 features derived from the sequence, gene function information and network topology. Within a leave-one-organism-out cross-validation, the classifiers showed high generalizability with an average accuracy close to 80% in the left-out species. As a case study, we applied the method to Tribolium castaneum and Bombyx mori and validated predictions experimentally yielding similar performances. Finally, using the classifier based on the studied model organisms enabled linking the essentiality information of human cell line screens and population studies.
Site-specific recombinases have been used in higher eukaryotes, especially in animals, for a broad range of applications, including chromosomal translocations, large deletions, site-specific integration, and tissue-specific as well as conditional knock-outs. The application of site-specific recombination has also been demonstrated in simple eukaryotes like fungi and protozoa. However, its use in fungal research, especially in phytopathogenic fungi, has often been limited to "recycle" the marker genes used in transformation experiments. We show that Cre recombinase can be used for conditional gene deletions in the phytopathogenic fungus Ustilago maydis. Conditional gene knock-outs can be generated via the transcriptional control of the recombinase by U. maydis promoters specifically activated during the biotrophic phase of fungal growth, enabling gene deletions at defined developmental stages inside the plant tissue. Also, we show that a tamoxifen-activated Cre-recombinase allows the tight control necessary for the induced deletion of essential genes by the addition of tamoxifen. These tools will be helpful to address the function of genes under both axenic and in planta conditions for the U. maydis-maize pathosystem and should pave the way for similar approaches in other plant pathosystems.
PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have shown clinical benefit in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). However, the immunotherapy strategy is less effective in patients with EGFR-activating mutations (EGFR MT). Studies showed that besides low expression of PD-L1, the absence of TILs and distinct expression profile of immune checkpoint molecules might be associated with low response of the patient subset. In this study, we first compared CD8A, GZMB and PRF1 mRNA levels in different LUAD subtypes harboring different driver mutations by dataset analyses and investigated the association between 15 well-defined B7-CD28 family members and driver mutations. The results showed that the decreases in the density and function of CD8+ TILs, CD274 (PD-L1 gene), and CD86 and increases in VTCN1 (B7-H4 gene) and HHLA2 were associated with LUAD with EGFR-activating mutations. Immunohistochemical staining studies further supported that PD-L1 was downregulated and B7-H4 was upregulated in the subtype. Furthermore, PD-L1 expression was positively associated with levels of CD8A and granzyme B, while B7-H4 expression was negatively associated with granzyme B levels. In lung cancer cell lines, EGFR-activating mutations effectively upregulated B7-H4 and downregulated PD-L1. MEK/ERK-pathway activation upregulated B7-H4, and PI3K/Akt activation upregulated PD-L1. EGFR 19Del mutation was associated with inhibition of CD8+ T-cell function, while knocking down B7-H4 could reverse the inhibition, and further showed tumor-growth inhibition and longer survival in vivo. Taken together, this study shed light on that B7-H4 might be an alternative immune-checkpoint molecule and a potential therapeutic target for LUAD with EGFR MT.
Cervical cancer (CC) is one of the most common malignancies encountered in gynecology practice. However, there is a paucity of information about specific biomarkers that assist in the diagnosis and prognosis of CC. Pyroptosis is a form of programmed cell death whose different elements are related to the occurrence, invasion, and metastasis of tumors. However, the role of pyroptosis phenomena in the progression of CC has not yet been elucidated. This study focuses on the development of a pyroptosis-associated prognostic signature for CC using integrated bioinformatics to delineate the relationships among the signature, tumor microenvironment, and immune response of the patients. In this respect, we identified a prognostic signature that depends on eight pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) that designate with better prognostic survival in the low-risk group (P<0.05) and where AUC values were greater than 0.7. A multi-factor Cox regression analysis indicated that such a signature could be used as an independent prognostic factor, and both the DCA and the Nomogram suggested that the proposed prognostic signature had good predictive capabilities. Interestingly, this prognostic signature can be applied to multiple tumors and thus, is versatile from a clinical point of view. In addition, there were significant differences in the tumor microenvironment and immune infiltration status between the high- and low-risk groups (P<0. 05). The core gene granzyme B (GZMB) was screened and the CC-associated regulatory axis, GZMB/ miR-378a/TRIM52-AS1, was constructed, which may promote CC progression, and further experimentation is needed to validate these results.
Immunity against hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is complex and not entirely understood so far, including the decisive factors leading to the development of chronic hepatitis B. This lack of a mechanistic understanding of HBV-specific immunity is also caused by a limited number of suitable animal models. Here, we describe the generation of a recombinant adenovirus expressing an HBV 1.3-overlength genome linked to luciferase (Ad-HBV-Luc) allowing for precise analysis of the quantity of infected hepatocytes. This enables sensitive and close-meshed monitoring of HBV-specific CD8 T cells and the onset of anti-viral immunity in mice. A high dose of Ad-HBV-Luc developed into chronic hepatitis B accompanied by dysfunctional CD8 T cells characterized by high expression of PD1 and TOX and low expression of KLRG1 and GzmB. In contrast, a low dose of Ad-HBV-Luc infection resulted in acute hepatitis with CD8 T cell-mediated elimination of HBV-replicating hepatocytes associated with elevated sALT levels and increased numbers of cytotoxic HBV-specific CD8 T cells. Thus, the infectious dose was a critical factor to induce either acute self-limited or chronic HBV infection in mice. Taken together, the new Ad-HBV-Luc vector will allow for highly sensitive and time-resolved analysis of HBV-specific immune responses during acute and chronic infection.
Granzyme B (GzmB) is primarily expressed by mammalian cytotoxic T cells and serves as one of the key components in the defense against viral infection by the induction of apoptosis in virus infected cells. By direct cell to cell contact and delivery into target cells by perforin, cytotoxic T cells activate apoptosis through the action of GzmB by both caspase-dependent and -independent pathways. In search for early ancestors of GzmB we have in the current study identified and characterized a GzmB homologue from a reptile, the Chinese alligator. This enzyme is encoded from the same locus as the mammalian counterparts, the chymase locus. Phage display analysis of the cleavage specificity of the recombinant alligator enzyme (named MCP1A-like) shows that it is a relatively strict Glu-ase, with strong preference for glutamic acid in the P1 position of a substrate. The majority of mammalian GzmB:s are, in marked contrast to the alligator enzyme, relatively strict Asp-ases. The alligator enzyme also showed strong preference for Ala, Pro and Gly in the P2 position and Val in the P3 position indicating that it has a narrow specificity, similar to the mammalian counterparts. Analysis of the three amino acids forming the substrate binding pocket (S1 pocket) in three amphibian homologues to MCP1A-like, from the frogs Xenopus laevis and Xenopus tropicalis, shows that these amphibian enzymes have similar substrate binding pocket as their mammalian counterparts. This finding, together with the apparent lack of GzmB homologs in fish, indicates that the ancestor of GzmB did appear with the amphibians at the base of tetrapod evolution. This study is a first step in a larger effort to understand the evolutionary processes involved in shaping anti-viral immunity in non-mammalian vertebrates.
OBJECTIVE: Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a systemic disease and most patients have metastases at diagnosis. Better understanding of the underlying mechanisms of SCLC metastasis may provide potential approach to improve clinical outcome.METHODS: HTG Edge-seq was used to identify the differential gene expression between primary SCLC lesions and paired metastatic lymph nodes (LN). Overall survival (OS) analysis was performed in patients with different levels of plasma CCL19 concentration. Invasion, migration, proliferation, apoptosis and angiogenesis ability of SCLC cells and function of CD8 + T cells were evaluated in vitro to investigate the mechanism of CCL19 in promoting metastasis.RESULTS: Four chemokines (CCL19, CCL21, CCL8, CCR1) were the most differentially expressed between primary lesions and metastatic LN. CCL19 was further investigated because its mRNA and protein level expression were also validated in four SCLC cell lines (H446, H69, H82, H196). Higher plasma CCL19 was associated with late lymph node (N3) metastasis (training cohort P = 0.044, validation cohort P = 0.020) and shorter OS (training cohort P = 0.040, validation cohort P = 0.047) in SCLC patients. Silencing CCL19 inhibited SCLC cell migration, invasion, proliferation and HUVECs tube formation. Furthermore, we found that CCL19 could decrease percentage of CD8 + Ki67 + and CD8 + GZMB + T cells and increase proportion of CD8 + PD1 + T cells.CONCLUSION: CCL19 was associated with LN metastasis and poor prognosis in patients with SCLC. Its expression promoted tumor progression and metastasis and impaired the function of CD8 + T cells, suggesting CCL19 might be a potential target for SCLC.
Early endosomes (EEs) are part of the endocytic transport pathway and resemble the earliest class of transport vesicles between the internalization of extracellular material, their cellular distribution or vacuolar degradation. In filamentous fungi, EEs fulfill important functions in long distance transport of cargoes as mRNAs, ribosomes, and peroxisomes. Formation and maturation of early endosomes is controlled by the specific membrane-bound Rab-GTPase Rab5 and tethering complexes as CORVET (class C core vacuole/endosome tethering). In the basidiomycete Ustilago maydis, Rab5a is the prominent GTPase to recruit CORVET to EEs; in rab5a deletion strains, this function is maintained by the second EE-associated GTPase Rab5b. The tethering- and core-subunits of CORVET are essential, buttressing a central role for EE transport in U. maydis. The function of EEs in long distance transport is supported by the Nma1 protein that interacts with the Vps3 subunit of CORVET. The interaction stabilizes the binding of Vps3 to the CORVET core complex that is recruited to Rab5a via Vps8. Deletion of nma1 leads to a significantly reduced number of EEs, and an increased conversion rate of EEs to late endosomes. Thus, Nma1 modulates the lifespan of EEs to ensure their availability for the various long distance transport processes.
PURPOSE: Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common chronic inflammatory skin disorder associated with immune dysregulation and barrier dysfunction. In this study, we investigated immunological biomarkers for AD diagnosis and treatment using CIBERSORT to identify immune cell infiltration characteristics.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of lesioned (LS) vs non-lesioned (NL) groups were obtained from public datasets (GSE140684 and GSE99802). We performed functional enrichment analysis and selected hub genes from the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. The hub genes were then subjected to transcription factor (TF), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), drug interaction, and protein subcellular localization analyses. We also performed correlation analysis on differentially expressed immune cells, TFs, and hub genes. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis and binomial least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis were employed to assess the expression of hub genes in the GSE99802, GSE140684, GSE58558, GSE120721, and GSE36842 datasets.RESULTS: We identified 238 common DEGs and 25 hub genes. Additionally, we predicted TFs, miRNAs, lncRNA, drugs, and protein subcellular localizations. The proportions of activated dendritic cells (DCs) and CD4+ memory T cells were relatively high in the LS skin. Expression levels of the TF FOXC1 were negatively correlated with target genes and the abundance of two immune cell types. The LASSO model showed that GZMB, CXCL1, and CD274 are candidate diagnostic biomarkers.CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that downregulated expression of FOXC1 expression may enhance the levels of chemokines, chemokine receptors, T cell receptor signaling molecules, activating CD4+ memory T cells and DCs in AD.
OBJECTIVE: Benefits of adjuvant treatment in pT1N1 gastric cancer (GC) remain controversial. Additionally, an effective biomarker for early GC is the need of the hour. The prognostic and predictive roles of single patient classifier (SPC) were validated in stage II/III GC. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the role of SPC as a biomarker for pT1N1 GC.METHODS: The present retrospective biomarker study (NCT03485105) enrolled patients treated for pT1N1 GC between 1996 and 2012 from two large hospitals (the Y cohort and S cohort). For SPC, mRNA expression of four classifier genes (GZMB, WARS, SFRP4 and CDX1) were evaluated by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay. The SPC was revised targeting pT1 stages and the prognosis was stratified as high- and low-risk group by the expression of SFRP4, a representative epithelial-mesenchymal transition marker.RESULTS: SPC was evaluated in 875 patients (n=391 and 484 in the Y and S cohorts, respectively). Among 864 patients whose SPC result was available, 41 (4.7%) patients experience GC recurrence. According to revised SPC, 254 (29.4%) patients were classified as high risk [123 (31.5%) and 131 (27.1%) in the Y and S cohorts, respectively]. The high risk was related to frequent recurrence in both Y and S cohort (log-rank P=0.023, P<0.001, respectively), while there was no difference byGZMB and WARS expression. Multivariable analyses of the overall-cohort confirmed the high risk of revised SPC as a significant prognostic factor [hazard ratio (HR): 4.402 (2.293-8.449), P<0.001] of GC. A significant difference was not detected by SPC in the prognosis of patients in the presence and absence of adjuvant treatment (log-rank P=0.670).CONCLUSIONS: The present study revealed the revised SPC as a prognostic biomarker of pT1N1 GC and suggested the use of the revised SPC for early-stage GC as like stage II/III.
Streptophytes are one of the major groups of the green lineage (Chloroplastida or Viridiplantae). During one billion years of evolution, streptophytes have radiated into an astounding diversity of uni- and multicellular green algae as well as land plants. Most divergent from land plants is a clade formed by Mesostigmatophyceae, Spirotaenia spp. and Chlorokybophyceae. All three lineages are species-poor and the Chlorokybophyceae consist of a single described species, Chlorokybus atmophyticus. In this study, we used phylogenomic analyses to shed light into the diversity within Chlorokybus using a sampling of isolates across its known distribution. We uncovered a consistent deep genetic structure within the Chlorokybus isolates, which prompted us to formally extend the Chlorokybophyceae by describing four new species. Gene expression differences among Chlorokybus species suggest certain constitutive variability that might influence their response to environmental factors. Failure to account for this diversity can hamper comparative genomic studies aiming to understand the evolution of stress response across streptophytes. Our data highlight that future studies on the evolution of plant form and function can tap into an unknown diversity at key deep branches of the streptophytes.
Brain metastases are common complication in cancer patients. Immune checkpoint inhibitors show therapeutic benefits also in patients with central nervous system (CNS) metastases. However, their antitumor effects on metastatic tumors and their underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood. In this study we investigated the antitumor effect of anti-programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibody on metastatic brain tumors and evaluated immune responses during treatment. We employed a hematogenous brain metastasis xenograft model using immunodeficient mice with murine lymphocyte infusions. A human non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell line stably expressing NanoLuc® reporter (Nluc-H1915) was inoculated from the internal carotid artery of SCID mice. After metastases were established (24 days after inoculation), splenocytes prepared from H1915-immunized BALB/c mice were injected intravenously and mouse IgG or anti-PD-L1 antibody treatment was started (day 1). Evaluated by Nluc activity, tumor volume in the brain on day 14 was significantly lower in anti-PD-L1-treated mice than in mouse IgG-treated mice. Furthermore CD8+ cells were primarily infiltrated intratumorally and peritumorally and anti-PD-L1 treatment induced a significantly higher proportion of Granzyme B (GzmB)+ cells among CD8+ T cells. The antitumor effect of anti-PD-L1 antibody on brain metastasis is thought to be achieved by the enhanced activation of infiltrated CD8+ T cells into metastatic brain tumor. These results suggest that anti-PD-L1 antibody-containing regimens may be promising treatment options for cancer patients with brain metastases.
Roundup® is the brand name for herbicide solutions containing glyphosate, which specifically inhibits the 5-enolpyruvyl-shikimate-3-phosphate (EPSP) synthase of the shikimate pathway. The inhibition of the EPSP synthase causes plant death because EPSP is required for biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids. Glyphosate also inhibits the growth of archaea, bacteria, Apicomplexa, algae and fungi possessing an EPSP synthase. Here, we have characterized two glyphosate-resistant bacteria from a Roundup solution. Taxonomic classification revealed that the isolates 1CH1 and 2CH1 are Burkholderia anthina and Burkholderia cenocepacia strains respectively. Both isolates cannot utilize glyphosate as a source of phosphorus and synthesize glyphosate-sensitive EPSP synthase variants. Burkholderia. anthina 1CH1 and B. cenocepacia 2CH1 tolerate high levels of glyphosate because the herbicide is not taken up by the bacteria. Previously, it has been observed that the exposure of soil bacteria to herbicides like glyphosate promotes the development of antibiotic resistances. Antibiotic sensitivity testing revealed that the only the B. cenocepacia 2CH1 isolate showed increased resistance to a variety of antibiotics. Thus, the adaptation of B. anthina 1CH1 and B. cenocepacia 2CH1 to glyphosate did not generally increase the antibiotic resistance of both bacteria. However, our study confirms the genomic adaptability of bacteria belonging to the genus Burkholderia.
Telomerases elongate the ends of chromosomes required for cell immortality through their reverse transcriptase activity. By using the model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae we defined the order in which the holoenzyme matures. First, a longer precursor of the telomerase RNA, TLC1 is transcribed and exported into the cytoplasm, where it associates with the protecting Sm-ring, the Est and the Pop proteins. This partly matured telomerase is re-imported into the nucleus via Mtr10 and a novel TLC1-import factor, the karyopherin Cse1. Remarkably, while mutations in all known transport factors result in short telomere ends, mutation in CSE1 leads to the amplification of Y' elements in the terminal chromosome regions and thus elongated telomere ends. Cse1 does not only support TLC1 import, but also the Sm-ring stabilization on the RNA enableling Mtr10 contact and nuclear import. Thus, Sm-ring formation and import factor contact resembles a quality control step in the maturation process of the telomerase. The re-imported immature TLC1 is finally trimmed into the 1158 nucleotides long mature form via the nuclear exosome. TMG-capping of TLC1 finalizes maturation, leading to mature telomerase.
Dysregulated skin immunity is a hallmark of many skin diseases such as atopic dermatitis, autoimmune blistering diseases, and interface dermatitis. Current treatment options for the inflammatory skin diseases are limited and sometimes ineffective, therefore further understanding of pathomechanisms in the inflammatory skin conditions is necessary to develop new therapeutic alternatives. Recent studies suggest that the serine protease, granzyme B, is a key mediator in multiple inflammatory skin diseases, implying that strategies targeting granzyme B may be an attractive treatment option for such diseases. Specifically, granzyme B exhibits not only an intracellular apoptotic function but also extracellular proteolytic roles in inflammatory skin diseases including infectious diseases, pemphigoid diseases, atopic dermatitis, alopecia areata, and interface dermatitis. In this review, we summarize the current understanding with respect to the functions of granzyme B in the pathomechanism of various inflammatory skin diseases and evaluate the possibility of therapeutics targeting granzyme B.
A comparison of overlapping proximity captures at the head region of the ribosomal 40S subunit (hr40S) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae from four adjacent perspectives, namely Asc1/RACK1, Rps2/uS5, Rps3/uS3, and Rps20/uS10, corroborates dynamic co-localization of proteins that control activity and fate of both ribosomes and mRNA. Co-locating factors that associate with the hr40S are involved in (i) (de)ubiquitination of ribosomal proteins (Hel2, Bre5-Ubp3), (ii) clamping of inactive ribosomal subunits (Stm1), (iii) mRNA surveillance and vesicular transport (Smy2, Syh1), (iv) degradation of mRNA (endo- and exonucleases Ypl199c and Xrn1, respectively), (v) autophagy (Psp2, Vps30, Ykt6), and (vi) kinase signaling (Ste20). Additionally, they must be harmonized with translation initiation factors (eIF3, cap-binding protein Cdc33, eIF2A) and mRNA-binding/ribosome-charging proteins (Scp160, Sro9). The Rps/uS-BioID perspectives revealed substantial Asc1/RACK1-dependent hr40S configuration indicating a function of the β-propeller in context-specific spatial organization of this microenvironment. Toward resolving context-specific constellations, a Split-TurboID analysis emphasized the ubiquitin-associated factors Def1 and Lsm12 as neighbors of Bre5 at hr40S. These shuttling proteins indicate a common regulatory axis for the fate of polymerizing machineries for the biosynthesis of proteins in the cytoplasm and RNA/DNA in the nucleus.
Loss of T cell immunogenicity due to mutations in virally encoded epitopes is a well-described adaptation strategy to limit host anti-viral immunity. Another described, but less understood, adaptation strategy involves the selection of mutations within epitopes that retain immune recognition, suggesting a benefit for the virus despite continued immune pressure (termed non-classical adaptation). To understand this adaptation strategy, we utilized a single cell transcriptomic approach to identify features of the HIV-specific CD8+ T cell responses targeting non-adapted (NAE) and adapted (AE) forms of epitopes containing a non-classical adaptation. T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire and transcriptome were obtained from antigen-specific CD8+ T cells of chronic (n=7) and acute (n=4) HIV-infected subjects identified by either HLA class I tetramers or upregulation of activation markers following peptide stimulation. CD8+ T cells were predominantly dual tetramer+, confirming a large proportion of cross-reactive TCR clonotypes capable of recognizing the NAE and AE form. However, single-reactive CD8+ T cells were identified in acute HIV-infected subjects only, providing the potential for the selection of T cell clones over time. The transcriptomic profile of CD8+ T cells was dependent on the autologous virus: subjects whose virus encoded the NAE form of the epitope (and who transitioned to the AE form at a later timepoint) exhibited an 'effective' immune response, as indicated by expression of transcripts associated with polyfunctionality, cytotoxicity and apoptosis (largely driven by the genes GZMB, IFNɣ, CCL3, CCL4 and CCL5). These data suggest that viral adaptation at a single amino acid residue can provide an alternative strategy for viral survival by modulating the transcriptome of CD8+ T cells and potentially selecting for less effective T cell clones from the acute to chronic phase.
After receptor-mediated endocytosis and endosomal escape, adenoviral capsids can travel via microtubule organizing centers to the nuclear envelope. Upon capsid disassembly, viral genome import into nuclei of interphase cells then occurs through nuclear pore complexes, involving the nucleoporins Nup214 and Nup358. Import also requires the activity of the classic nuclear export receptor CRM1, as it is blocked by the selective inhibitor leptomycin B. We have now used artificially enucleated as well as mitotic cells to analyze the role of an intact nucleus in different steps of the viral life cycle. In enucleated U2OS cells, viral capsids traveled to the microtubule organizing center, whereas their removal from this complex was blocked, suggesting that this step required nuclear factors. In mitotic cells, on the other hand, CRM1 promoted capsid disassembly and genome release, suggesting a role of this protein that does not require intact nuclear envelopes or nuclear pore complexes and is distinct from its function as a nuclear export receptor. Similar to enucleation, inhibition of CRM1 by leptomycin B also leads to an arrest of adenoviral capsids at the microtubule organizing center. In a small-scale screen using leptomycin B-resistant versions of CRM1, we identified a mutant, CRM1 W142A P143A, that is compromised with respect to adenoviral capsid disassembly in both interphase and mitotic cells. Strikingly, this mutant is capable of exporting cargo proteins out of the nucleus of living cells or digitonin-permeabilized cells, pointing to a role of the mutated region that is not directly linked to nuclear export. IMPORTANCE A role of nucleoporins and of soluble transport factors in adenoviral genome import into the nucleus of infected cells in interphase has previously been established. The nuclear export receptor CRM1 promotes genome import, but its precise function is not known. Using enucleated and mitotic cells, we showed that CRM1 does not simply function by exporting a crucial factor out of the nucleus that would then trigger capsid disassembly and genome import. Instead, CRM1 has an export-independent role, a notion that is also supported by a mutant, CRM1 W142A P143A, which is export competent but deficient in viral capsid disassembly, in both interphase and mitotic cells.
Granzyme B (GrB)-producing B cells are proposed to be a kind of regulatory B cells (Bregs) and have been revealed to be implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Nevertheless, their role in SLE remains elusive. In this study, the frequencies of GrB-producing Bregs in peripheral blood of heathy control (HC) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) were evaluated by flow cytometry, and their correlation with SLE patient clinical and immunological features were analyzed. The expression of GrB in HC and SLE B cells were also further detected by RT-qPCR analysis and ELISpot. The function of GrB-producing Bregs in HC and SLE patients was further investigated by in vitro CD4+ effector T cells-B cells co-culture assays with GrB blockade. We found that GrB-producing Bregs were significantly decreased in SLE patients and correlated with the clinical and immunological features. Moreover, these cells were functionally impaired under SLE circumstance. The negative correlation between GrB-producing Bregs and CD4+ T cells observed in healthy individuals disappeared in SLE patients. In vitro cell co-culture assay further showed that GrB-producing Bregs from SLE patients failed to suppress the Th1, Th2 and Th17 cell inflammatory responses, partially due to the dampened capacity of down-regulating TCR zeta and inducing T cell apoptosis. Taken together, these results revealed the disturbance of GrB-producing Bregs in SLE that might contribute to the disease initiation and progression.
Background: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is the most common disease in the beef and dairy cattle industry. BRD is a multifactorial disease resulting from the interaction between environmental stressors and infectious agents. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying BRD are not fully understood yet. Therefore, this study aimed to use a systems biology approach to systematically evaluate this disorder to better understand the molecular mechanisms responsible for BRD. Methods: Previously published RNA-seq data from whole blood of 18 healthy and 25 BRD samples were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and then analyzed. Next, two distinct methods of weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA), i.e., module-trait relationships (MTRs) and module preservation (MP) analysis were used to identify significant highly correlated modules with clinical traits of BRD and non-preserved modules between healthy and BRD samples, respectively. After identifying respective modules by the two mentioned methods of WGCNA, functional enrichment analysis was performed to extract the modules that are biologically related to BRD. Gene coexpression networks based on the hub genes from the candidate modules were then integrated with protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks to identify hub-hub genes and potential transcription factors (TFs). Results: Four significant highly correlated modules with clinical traits of BRD as well as 29 non-preserved modules were identified by MTRs and MP methods, respectively. Among them, two significant highly correlated modules (identified by MTRs) and six nonpreserved modules (identified by MP) were biologically associated with immune response, pulmonary inflammation, and pathogenesis of BRD. After aggregation of gene coexpression networks based on the hub genes with PPI networks, a total of 307 hub-hub genes were identified in the eight candidate modules. Interestingly, most of these hub-hub genes were reported to play an important role in the immune response and BRD pathogenesis. Among the eight candidate modules, the turquoise (identified by MTRs) and purple (identified by MP) modules were highly biologically enriched in BRD. Moreover, STAT1, STAT2, STAT3, IRF7, and IRF9 TFs were suggested to play an important role in the immune system during BRD by regulating the coexpressed genes of these modules. Additionally, a gene set containing several hub-hub genes was identified in the eight candidate modules, such as TLR2, TLR4, IL10, SOCS3, GZMB, ANXA1, ANXA5, PTEN, SGK1, IFI6, ISG15, MX1, MX2, OAS2, IFIH1, DDX58, DHX58, RSAD2, IFI44, IFI44L, EIF2AK2, ISG20, IFIT5, IFITM3, OAS1Y, HERC5, and PRF1, which are potentially critical during infection with agents of bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC). Conclusion: This study not only helps us to better understand the molecular mechanisms responsible for BRD but also suggested eight candidate modules along with several promising hub-hub genes as diagnosis biomarkers and therapeutic targets for BRD.
BACKGROUND: IL27 has been reported to play dual roles in cancer; however, its effects on the tumor microenvironment (TME), immunotherapy, and prognosis in melanoma remain largely unclear. This study was aimed to uncover the effects of IL27 on TME, immunotherapy and prognosis in patients with melanoma.METHODS: RNA-seq data, drug sensitivity data, and clinical data were obtained from TCGA, GEO, CCLE, and CTRP. Log-rank test was used to determine the survival value of IL27. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were employed to determine the independent predictors of survival outcomes. DAVID and GSEA were used to perform gene set functional annotations. ssGSEA was used to explore the association between IL27 and immune infiltrates. ConsensusClusterPlus was used to classify melanoma tissues into hot tumors or cold tumors.RESULTS: Clinically, IL27 was negatively correlated with Breslow depth (P = 0.00042) and positively associated with response to radiotherapy (P = 0.038). High IL27 expression showed an improved survival outcome (P = 0.00016), and could serve as an independent predictor of survival outcomes (hazard ratio: 0.32 - 0.88, P = 0.015). Functionally, elevated IL27 expression could induce an enhanced immune response and pyroptosis (R = 0.64, P = 1.2e-55), autophagy (R = 0.37, P = 7.1e-17) and apoptosis (R = 0.47, P = 1.1e-27) in patients with melanoma. Mechanistically, elevated IL27 expression was positively correlated with cytotoxic cytokines (including INFG and GZMB), enhanced immune infiltrates, and elevated CD8/Treg ratio (R = 0.14, P = 0.02), possibly driving CD8+ T cell infiltration by suppressing β-catenin signaling in the TME. Furthermore, IL27 was significantly associated with hot tumor state, multiple predictors of response to immunotherapy, and improved drug response in patients with melanoma.CONCLUSIONS: IL27 was correlated with enriched CD8+ T cells, desirable therapeutic response and improved prognosis. It thus can be utilized as a promising modulator in the development of cytokine-based immunotherapy for melanoma.
The biology of human granzymes remains enigmatic in part due to our inability to probe their functions outside of in vitro assays or animal models with divergent granzyme species. We hypothesize that the biology of human granzymes could be better elaborated with a translational imaging technology to reveal the contexts in which granzymes are secreted and biochemically active in vivo. Here, we advance toward this goal by engineering a Granzyme targeting Restricted Interaction Peptide specific to family member B (GRIP B) to measure secreted granzyme B (GZMB) biochemistry with positron emission tomography. A proteolytic cleavage of 64Cu-labeled GRIP B liberates a radiolabeled form of Temporin L, which sequesters the radioisotope by binding to adjacent phospholipid bilayers. Thus, at extended time points postinjection (i.e., hours, not seconds), tissue biodistribution of the radioisotope in vivo reflects relative units of the GZMB activity. As a proof of concept, we show in three syngeneic mouse cancer models that 64Cu-GRIP B detects GZMB from T cells activated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPI). Remarkably, the radiotracer detects the proteolysis within tumors but also in lymphoid tissue, where immune cells are activated by a systemic CPI. Control experiments with an uncleavable analogue of 64Cu-GRIP B and tumor imaging studies in germline GZMB knockout mice were applied to show that 64Cu-GRIP B is specific for GZMB proteolysis. Furthermore, we explored a potential noncytotoxic function for GZMB by applying 64Cu-GRIP B to a model of pulmonary inflammation. In summary, we demonstrate that granzyme biochemistry can be assessed in vivo using an imaging modality that can be scaled vertically into human subjects.
Astrocyte-derived cholesterol supports brain cells under physiological conditions. However, in demyelinating lesions, astrocytes downregulate cholesterol synthesis, and the cholesterol that is essential for remyelination has to originate from other cellular sources. Here, we show that repair following acute versus chronic demyelination involves distinct processes. In particular, in chronic myelin disease, when recycling of lipids is often defective, de novo neuronal cholesterol synthesis is critical for regeneration. By gene expression profiling, genetic loss-of-function experiments, and comprehensive phenotyping, we provide evidence that neurons increase cholesterol synthesis in chronic myelin disease models and in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). In mouse models, neuronal cholesterol facilitates remyelination specifically by triggering oligodendrocyte precursor cell proliferation. Our data contribute to the understanding of disease progression and have implications for therapeutic strategies in patients with MS.
In chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), lung natural killer cells (NKs) lyse autologous lung epithelial cells in vitro, but underlying mechanisms and their relationship to epithelial cell apoptosis in vivo are undefined. Although this cytolytic capacity of lung NKs depends on priming by dendritic cells (DCs), whether priming correlates with DC maturation or is limited to a specific DC subset is also unknown. We recruited ever-smokers (≥10 pack-years; n = 96) undergoing clinically indicated lung resections. We analyzed lung NKs for cytotoxic molecule transcripts and for cytotoxicity, which we correlated with in situ detection of activated Caspase-3/7+ airway epithelial cells. To investigate DC priming, we measured lung DC expression of CCR2, CCR7, and CX3CR1 and cocultured peripheral blood NKs with autologous lung DCs, either matured using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (nonobstructed smokers) or separated into conventional dendritic cell type-1 (cDC1) versus cDC type-2 (cDC2) (COPD). Lung NKs in COPD expressed more perforin (P < 0.02) and granzyme B (P < 0.03) transcripts; inhibiting perforin blocked in vitro killing by lung NKs. Cytotoxicity in vitro correlated significantly (Sr = 0.68, P = 0.0043) with numbers of apoptotic epithelial cells per airway. In nonobstructed smokers, LPS-induced maturation enhanced DC-mediated priming of blood NKs, reflected by greater epithelial cell death. Although CCR7 expression was greater in COPD in both cDC1 (P < 0.03) and cDC2 (P = 0.009), only lung cDC1 primed NK killing. Thus, rather than being intrinsic to those with COPD, NK priming is a capacity of human lung DCs that is inducible by recognition of bacterial (and possibly other) danger signals and restricted to the cDC1 subset.
The antigenic protein HPV6 L1 was synthesized in the plant expression system based on transgenic tomato fruit during the development of an oral vaccine against anogenital papillomaviruses. In experiments on mice immunization, new data on the induction of the T-cell immune response were obtained, which were recorded by the results of activation of the synthesis of interferon, CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes, and granzyme B secreted by them in peripheral mononuclear blood cells and splenocytes of mice that were previously vaccinated with the vaccine material of tomato fruit with the HPV6 L1 gene.
Current therapies to treat coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) involve vaccines against the spike protein S1 of SARS-CoV-2. Here, we outline an alternative approach involving chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) in T cells (CAR-Ts). CAR-T recognition of the SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain (RBD) peptide induced ribosomal protein S6 phosphorylation, the increased expression of activation antigen, CD69 and effectors, interferon-γ, granzyme B, perforin, and Fas-ligand on overlapping subsets of CAR-Ts. CAR-Ts further showed potent in vitro killing of target cells loaded with RBD, S1 peptide, or expressing the S1 protein. The efficacy of killing varied with different sized hinge regions, whereas time-lapse microscopy showed CAR-T cluster formation around RBD-expressing targets. Cytolysis of targets was mediated primarily by the GZMB/perforin pathway. Lastly, we showed in vivo killing of S1-expressing cells by our SARS-CoV-2 CAR-Ts in mice. The successful generation of SARS-CoV-2 CAR-Ts represents a living vaccine approach for the treatment of COVID-19.
Pre-mRNA splicing is critical for cells, as defects in this process can lead to altered open reading frames and defective proteins, potentially causing neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. Introns are removed in the nucleus and splicing is documented by the addition of exon-junction-complexes (EJCs) at exon-exon boundaries. This "memory" of splicing events is important for the ribosome, which translates the RNAs in the cytoplasm. In case a stop codon was detected before an EJC, translation is blocked and the RNA is eliminated by the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD). In the model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae, two guard proteins, Gbp2 and Hrb1, have been identified as nuclear quality control factors for splicing. In their absence, intron-containing mRNAs leak into the cytoplasm. Their presence retains transcripts until the process is completed and they release the mRNAs by recruitment of the export factor Mex67. On transcripts that experience splicing problems, these guard proteins recruit the nuclear RNA degradation machinery. Interestingly, they continue their quality control function on exported transcripts. They support NMD by inhibiting translation and recruiting the cytoplasmic degradation factors. In this way, they link the nuclear and cytoplasmic quality control systems. These discoveries are also intriguing for humans, as homologues of these guard proteins are present also in multicellular organisms. Here, we provide an overview of the quality control mechanisms of pre-mRNA splicing, and present Gbp2 and Hrb1, as well as their human counterparts, as important players in these pathways.
Irradiation-broken DNA fragments increase type I interferon and chemokines secretion in tumor cells. Since radiotherapy may augment tumor immunotherapy, we hypothesize that the chemokines increased by irradiation could recruit CD8+ T cells to suppress tumor proliferation. This study intended to unveil the secreted factors activating and recruiting CD8+ T cells in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). EGFR-positive A549 was selected and treated by X-irradiation (IR) to identify the overexpression of chemokines associated to CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity and recruitment. A transwell assay with Alexa 488-labeled CD8+ T cells was used to evaluate CD8+ T cell motility in vitro. A nuclear imaging platform by In111-labeled nivolumab was used to track CD8+ T cells homing to tumors in vivo. The activation markers GZMB, PRF-1, and IFNγ, migration marker CD183 (CXCR3), and inhibitory marker CD274 (PD-1), were measured and compared in CD8+ T cells with A549 co-cultured, chemokines treated, and patients with late-stage lung cancer. We found that IR not only suppressed A549 proliferation but also induced IFNα and CXCL9 expression (p < 0.05). IFNα majorly increased IFNγ levels in CD8+ T cells (p < 0.05) and synergistically with CXCL9 enhanced CD8+ T cell migration in vitro (p < 0.05). We found that CXCR3 and PD-1 were down-regulated and up-regulated, respectively, in the peripheral blood CD8+ T cells in patients with lung cancer (n = 4 vs. healthy n = 3, both p < 0.05), which exhibited reduction of cell motility (p < 0.05). The in vivo nuclear imaging data indicated highly CD8+ T cells migrated to A549-induced tumors. In addition, we demonstrated that healthy PBMCs significantly suppressed the parallel tumor growth (p < 0.05) and the radioresistant tumor growth in the tumor xenograft mice (p < 0.05), but PBMCs from patients with lung cancer had lost the anti-tumor capacity. We demonstrated that IR induced IFNα and CXCL9 expression in A549 cells, leading to CD8+ T cell migration. This study unveiled a potential mechanism for radiotherapy to activate and recruit CD8+ T cells to suppress lung tumors.
Olfaction is crucial for insects to find food sources, mates, and oviposition sites. One of the initial steps in olfaction is facilitated by odorant-binding proteins (OBPs) that translocate hydrophobic odorants through the aqueous olfactory sensilla lymph to the odorant receptor complexes embedded in the dendritic membrane of olfactory sensory neurons. The Tribolium castaneum (Coleoptera, Tenebrionidae) OBPs encoded by the gene pair TcasOBP9A and TcasOBP9B represent the closest homologs to the well-studied Drosophila melanogaster OBP Lush (DmelOBP76a), which mediates pheromone reception. By an electroantennographic analysis, we can show that these two OBPs are not pheromone-specific but rather enhance the detection of a broad spectrum of organic volatiles. Both OBPs are expressed in the antenna but in a mutually exclusive pattern, despite their homology and gene pair character by chromosomal location. A phylogenetic analysis indicates that this gene pair arose at the base of the Cucujiformia, which dates the gene duplication event to about 200 Mio years ago. Therefore, this gene pair is not the result of a recent gene duplication event and the high sequence conservation in spite of their expression in different sensilla is potentially the result of a common function as co-OBPs.
BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious chronic bacterial infection caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB). It is one of the deadliest diseases in the world and a heavy burden for people all over the world. However, the hub genes involved in the host response remain largely unclear.METHODS: The data set GSE11199 was studied to clarify the potential gene network and signal transduction pathway in TB. The subjects were divided into latent tuberculosis and pulmonary tuberculosis, and the distribution of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) was analyzed between them using GEO2R. We verified the enriched process and pathway of DEGs by making use of the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO). The construction of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network of DEGs was achieved through making use of the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes (STRING), aiming at identifying hub genes. Then, the hub gene expression level in latent and pulmonary tuberculosis was verified by a boxplot. Finally, through making use of Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), we further analyzed the pathways related to DEGs in the data set GSE11199 to show the changing pattern between latent and pulmonary tuberculosis.RESULTS: We identified 98 DEGs in total in the data set GSE11199, 91 genes upregulated and 7 genes downregulated included. The enrichment of GO and KEGG pathways demonstrated that upregulated DEGs were mainly abundant in cytokine-mediated signaling pathway, response to interferon-gamma, endoplasmic reticulum lumen, beta-galactosidase activity, measles, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, etc. Based on the PPI network, we obtained 4 hub genes with a higher degree, namely, CTLA4, GZMB, GZMA, and PRF1. The box plot showed that these 4 hub gene expression levels in the pulmonary tuberculosis group were higher than those in the latent group. Finally, through Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), it was concluded that DEGs were largely associated with proteasome and primary immunodeficiency.CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals the coordination of pathogenic genes during TB infection and offers the diagnosis of TB a promising genome. These hub genes also provide new directions for the development of latent molecular targets for TB treatment.
Frequently, laccases are triggered during fungal cocultivation for overexpression. The function of these activated laccases during coculture has not been clarified. Previously, we reported that Gongronella sp. w5 (w5) (Mucoromycota, Mucoromycetes) specifically triggered the laccase Lcc9 overexpression in Coprinopsis cinerea (Basidiomycota, Agaricomycetes). To systematically analyze the function of the overexpressed laccase during fungal interaction, C. cinerea mycelia before and after the initial Lcc9 overexpression were chosen for transcriptome analysis. Results showed that accompanied by specific utilization of fructose as carbohydrate substrate, oxidative stress derived from antagonistic compounds secreted by w5 appears to be a signal critical for laccase production in C. cinerea. A decrease in reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the C. cinerea wild-type strain followed the increase in laccase production, and then lcc9 transcription and laccase activity stopped. By comparison, increased H2O2 content and mycelial ROS levels were observed during the entire cocultivation in lcc9 silenced C. cinerea strains. Moreover, lcc9 silencing slowed down the C. cinerea mycelial growth, affected hyphal morphology, and decreased the asexual sporulation in coculture. Our results showed that intracellular ROS acted as signal molecules to stimulate defense responses by C. cinerea with the expression of oxidative stress response regulator Skn7 and various detoxification proteins. Lcc9 takes part in a defense strategy to eliminate oxidative stress during the interspecific interaction with w5. IMPORTANCE The overproduction of laccase during interspecific fungal interactions is well known. However, the exact role of the upregulated laccases remains underexplored. Based on comparative transcriptomic analysis of C. cinerea and gene silencing of laccase Lcc9, here we show that oxidative stress derived from antagonistic compounds secreted by Gongronella sp. w5 was a signal critical for laccase Lcc9 production in Coprinopsis cinerea. Intracellular ROS acted as signal molecules to stimulate defense responses by C. cinerea with the expression of oxidative stress response regulator Skn7 and various detoxification proteins. Ultimately, Lcc9 takes part in a defense strategy to eliminate oxidative stress and help cell growth and development during the interspecific interaction with Gongronella sp. w5. These findings deepened our understanding of fungal interactions in their natural population and communities.
Cavitation is a major pathological feature of pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). The study is aimed at investigating the mechanism of natural killer (NK) cells participating the cavity formation during Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) infection. Human peripheral blood samples were donated by pulmonary TB patients with cavity or not. Real-time quantitative PCR and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were performed to analyze the expression of cytokines secreted by NK cells. And the cytotoxicity of NK cells was compared between two groups. Our data showed that NK cells were more abundant in cohorts of cavity. Increased abundance of granzyme A and granzyme B was observed in culture supernatants of NK cells isolated from cavitary TB patients, which also resulted in a higher level of nonviable MTB-infected monocytes. Our data firstly demonstrates that NK cells participate in cavity formation in pulmonary TB patients. The elevated level and increased cytotoxicity of NK cells accelerate the cavitary formulation.
BACKGROUND: Research into the potential utility of plasma-derived circulating cell-free nucleic acids as non-invasive adjuncts to radiological imaging have been occasioned by the invasive nature of brain tumour biopsy. The objective of this study was to determine whether significant differences exist in the plasma transcriptomic profile of glioma patients relative to differences in their tumour characteristics, and also whether any observed differences were representative of synchronously obtained glioma samples and TCGA glioma-derived RNA.METHODS: Blood samples were collected from twenty glioma patients prior to tumour resection. Plasma ccfmRNAs and glioma-derived RNA were extracted and profiled.RESULTS: BCL2L1, GZMB, HLA-A, IRF1, MYD88, TLR2, and TP53 genes were significantly over-expressed in glioma patients (p < 0.001, versus control). GZMB and HLA-A genes were significantly over-expressed in high-grade glioma patients (p < 0.001, versus low-grade glioma patients). Moreover, the fold change of the BCL2L1 gene was observed to be higher in patients with high-grade glioma (p = 0.022, versus low-grade glioma patients). There was positive correlation between the magnitude of fold change of differentially expressed genes in plasma- and glioma-derived RNA (Spearman r = 0.6344, n = 14, p = 0.017), and with the mean FPKM in TCGA glioma-derived RNA samples (Spearman r = 0.4614, n = 19, p < 0.05). There was positive correlation between glioma radiographic tumour burden and the magnitude of fold change of the CSF3 gene (r = 0.9813, n = 20, p < 0.001).CONCLUSION: We identified significant differential expression of genes involved in cancer inflammation and immunity crosstalk among patients with different glioma grades, and there was positive correlation between their transcriptomic profile in plasma and tumour samples, and with TCGA glioma-derived RNA.
Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells represent a distinct T cell population restricted by the MHC-class-I-related molecule, MR1, which recognizes microbial-derived vitamin B2 (riboflavin) metabolites. Their abundance in humans, together with their ability to promptly produce distinct cytokines including interferon γ (IFNγ) and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), are consistent with regulatory functions in innate as well as adaptive immunity. Here, we tested whether the alarmin interleukin 33 (IL-33), which is secreted following inflammation or cell damage, could activate human MAIT cells. We found that MAIT cells stimulated with IL-33 produced high levels of IFNγ, TNFα and Granzyme B (GrzB). The action of IL-33 required IL-12 but was independent of T cell receptor (TCR) cross-linking. MAIT cells expressed the IL-33 receptor ST2 (suppression of tumorigenicity 2) and upregulated Tbet (T-box expressed in T cells) in response to IL-12 or IL-33. Electronically sorted MAIT cells also upregulated the expression of CCL3 (Chemokine C-C motif ligand 3), CD40L (CD40 Ligand), CSF-1 (Colony Stimulating Factor 1), LTA (Lymphotoxin-alpha) and IL-2RA (IL-2 receptor alpha chain) mRNAs in response to IL-33 plus IL-12. In conclusion, IL-33 combined with IL-12 can directly target MAIT cells to induce their activation and cytokine production. This novel mechanism of IL-33 activation provides insight into the mode of action by which human MAIT cells can promote inflammatory responses in a TCR-independent manner.
Comment in    Elife. 2021 Oct 14;10:
BACKGROUND: Mismatch repair proficient colorectal cancer (pMMR CRC) lacks effective treatments and has a poor prognosis, which can be attributed to the complexity of tumor microenvironment. The coordinated function of immune cells is vital to anti-tumor immunity. However, the spatial characteristics of immune cells in the pMMR CRC immune microenvironment and their relationship with clinical prognosis are not fully understood. Meanwhile, the immune modulatory effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NCT), which is the first-line treatment of pMMR CRC, needs further investigation. Therefore, this study aims to explore the spatial dynamics of immune cells and its prognostic value in pMMR CRC.METHODS: We analyzed the various immune cells in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissues which were collected from 77 patients with stage II/III of pMMR CRC, including 39 non-NCT treated and 38 NCT treated patients. We used the optimized multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC) to identify and quantify the density, type and location of immune cells in pMMR CRC. Multivariate survival analysis was performed to assess the relationship of immune profiles and clinical prognosis of pMMR CRC patients.RESULTS: The densities of most T cell subsets, B cells and macrophages were higher in the central region of the pMMR CRC than in the invasion margin. Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), especially the infiltration of CD4+ GzmB+ T cells in the central region of the tumor was identified to be positively correlated with the prognosis of the patients. Multivariate analysis confirmed that CD4+ GzmB+ T cells population was an independent predictor of disease-free survival (DFS) in non-NCT group. Meanwhile, NCT enhanced the infiltration of CD4+ GzmB+ T cells in the central region of the pMMR CRC, which was also identified as an independent protective factor of overall survival (OS) and DFS in NCT group.CONCLUSION: We demonstrated that the level of CD4+ GzmB+ T cells located in the center of tumor could provide great prognostic value for pMMR CRC patients. And the application of neoadjuvant chemotherapy further improves the infiltration of CD4+ GzmB+ T cells in the central compartment. Further studies into the application of CD4+ GzmB+ T cells in tumor immunotherapy are needed.
Project High-tech Omics-based Patient Evaluation (HOPE), which used whole-exome sequencing and gene expression profiling, was launched in 2014. A total of ~2,000 patients were enrolled until March 2016, and the survival time was observed up to July 2019. In our previous study, a tumor microenvironment immune type classification based on the expression levels of the programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and CD8B genes was performed based on four types: A, adaptive immune resistance; B, intrinsic induction; C, immunological ignorance; and D, tolerance. Type A (PD-L1+ and CD8B+) exhibited upregulated features of T helper 1 antitumor responses. In the present study, survival time analysis at 5 years revealed that patients in type A had a better prognosis than those in other categories [5 year survival rate (%); A (80.5) vs. B (73.9), C (73.4) and D (72.6), P=0.0005]. Based on the expression data of 293 immune response-associated genes, 62 specific genes were upregulated in the type A group. Among these genes, 18 specific genes, such as activated effector T-cell markers (CD8/CD40LG/GZMB), effector memory T-cell markers (PD-1/CD27/ICOS), chemokine markers (CXCL9/CXCL10) and activated dendritic cell markers (CD80/CD274/SLAMF1), were significantly associated with a good prognosis using overall survival time analysis. Finally, multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression analyses of overall survival demonstrated that four genes (GZMB, HAVCR2, CXCL9 and CD40LG) were independent prognostic markers, and GZMB, CXCL9 and CD40LG may contribute to the survival benefit of patients in the immune type A group.
Two decades ago, large cation currents were discovered in the envelope membranes of Pisum sativum L. (pea) chloroplasts. The deduced K+-permeable channel was coined fast-activating chloroplast cation channel but its molecular identity remained elusive. To reveal candidates, we mined proteomic datasets of isolated pea envelopes. Our search uncovered distant members of the nuclear POLLUX ion channel family. Since pea is not amenable to molecular genetics, we used Arabidopsis thaliana to characterize the two gene homologs. Using several independent approaches, we show that both candidates localize to the chloroplast envelope membrane. The proteins, designated PLASTID ENVELOPE ION CHANNELS (PEC1/2), form oligomers with regulator of K+ conductance domains protruding into the intermembrane space. Heterologous expression of PEC1/2 rescues yeast mutants deficient in K+ uptake. Nuclear POLLUX ion channels cofunction with Ca2+ channels to generate Ca2+ signals, critical for establishing mycorrhizal symbiosis and root development. Chloroplasts also exhibit Ca2+ transients in the stroma, probably to relay abiotic and biotic cues between plastids and the nucleus via the cytosol. Our results show that pec1pec2 loss-of-function double mutants fail to trigger the characteristic stromal Ca2+ release observed in wild-type plants exposed to external stress stimuli. Besides this molecular abnormality, pec1pec2 double mutants do not show obvious phenotypes. Future studies of PEC proteins will help to decipher the plant's stress-related Ca2+ signaling network and the role of plastids. More importantly, the discovery of PECs in the envelope membrane is another critical step towards completing the chloroplast ion transport protein inventory.
PURPOSE: Hypoxia is a common characteristic of many tumor microenvironments, and it has been shown to promote suppression of antitumor immunity. Despite strong biological rationale, longitudinal correlation of hypoxia and response to immunotherapy has not been investigated.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: In this study, we probed the tumor and its surrounding microenvironment with 18F-FMISO PET imaging to noninvasively quantify tumor hypoxia in vivo prior to and during PD-1 and CTLA-4 checkpoint blockade in preclinical models of breast and colon cancer.RESULTS: Longitudinal imaging identified hypoxia as an early predictive biomarker of therapeutic response (prior to anatomic changes in tumor volume) with a decreasing standard uptake value (SUV) ratio in tumors that effectively respond to therapy. PET signal correlated with ex vivo markers of tumor immune response including cytokines (IFNγ, GZMB, and TNF), damage-associated molecular pattern receptors (TLR2/4), and immune cell populations (macrophages, dendritic cells, and cytotoxic T cells). Responding tumors were marked by increased inflammation that were spatially distinct from hypoxic regions, providing a mechanistic understanding of the immune signaling pathways activated. To exploit image-guided combination therapy, hypoxia signal from PET imaging was used to guide the addition of a hypoxia targeted treatment to nonresponsive tumors, which ultimately provided therapeutic synergy and rescued response as determined by longitudinal changes in tumor volume.CONCLUSIONS: The results generated from this work provide an immediately translatable paradigm for measuring and targeting hypoxia to increase response to immune checkpoint therapy and using hypoxia imaging to guide combinatory therapies.
To better understand cellular life, it is essential to decipher the contribution of individual components and their interactions. Minimal genomes are an important tool to investigate these interactions. Here, we provide a database of 105 fully annotated genomes of a series of strains with sequential deletion steps of the industrially relevant model bacterium Bacillus subtilis starting with the laboratory wild type strain B. subtilis 168 and ending with B. subtilis PG38, which lacks approximately 40% of the original genome. The annotation is supported by sequencing of key intermediate strains as well as integration of literature knowledge for the annotation of the deletion scars and their potential effects. The strain compendium presented here represents a comprehensive genome library of the entire MiniBacillus project. This resource will facilitate the more effective application of the different strains in basic science as well as in biotechnology.
Drought is a severe environmental stress that exerts negative effects on plant growth. In trees, drought leads to reduced secondary growth and altered wood anatomy. The mechanisms underlying wood stress adaptation are not well understood. Here, we investigated the physiological, anatomical, hormonal, and transcriptional responses of poplar to strong drought. Drought-stressed xylem was characterized by higher vessel frequencies, smaller vessel lumina, and thicker secondary fiber cell walls. These changes were accompanied by strong increases in abscisic acid (ABA) and antagonistic changes in salicylic acid in wood. Transcriptional evidence supported ABA biosynthesis and signaling in wood. Since ABA signaling activates the fiber-thickening factor NST1, we expected upregulation of the secondary cell wall (SCW) cascade under stress. By contrast, transcription factors and biosynthesis genes for SCW formation were down-regulated, whereas a small set of cellulose synthase-like genes and a huge array of genes involved in cell wall modification were up-regulated in drought-stressed wood. Therefore, we suggest that ABA signaling monitors normal SCW biosynthesis and that drought causes a switch from normal to "stress wood" formation recruiting a dedicated set of genes for cell wall biosynthesis and remodeling. This proposition implies that drought-induced changes in cell wall properties underlie regulatory mechanisms distinct from those of normal wood.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the world's leading cause of tumor-related mortalities. Natural killer (NK) cells play a critical role at the first immunological defense line against HCC initiation and progression. NK cell dysfunction is therefore an important mechanism for immune evasion of HCC cells. In the present study using a murine HCC model, we revealed the down-regulation of PR/SET Domain 10 (PRDM10) in hepatic NK cells that were phenotypically and functionally exhausted. PRDM10 silencing diminished the expression of natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), augmented T cell immunoglobulin and ITIM domain (TIGIT) expression, and decreased the expression of interferon (IFN)-γ, perforin and granzyme B in normal hepatic NK cells in vitro. Consistently, PRDM10-deficient NK cells exhibited impaired cytotoxicity on target cells. In contrast, PRDM10 over-expression promoted NKG2D and Fas ligand (FasL) expression, reduced CD96 expression and enhanced transcripts of IFN-γ, perforin and granzyme B in NK cells in vivo. Moreover, PRDM10 silencing and PRDM10 over-expression down-regulated and up-regulated Eomesodermin (Eomes) expression, respectively. In summary, this study reveals PRDM10 down-regulation as a novel mechanism underlying NK cell dysfunction and identifies PRDM10 as a supporting factor of NK cell function.
Targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoints has achieved significant positive results in the treatment of multiple cancers. Quercetin is one of the most abundant dietary flavonoids found in various vegetables and fruits, and has a wide range of biological activities including immunomodulation. Here we report that quercetin dihydrate was screened and shown to inhibit the PD-1/PD-L1 interaction. Treatment with quercetin dihydrate promoted the killing activity of T cells on MDA-MB-231 and NCI-H460 cancer cells. Experiments using the xenograft mouse model showed that the growth rate of tumor volumes and masses in the quercetin dihydrate-treated mice were decreased. Immunohistochemistry of the tumors showed that CD8, GZMB, and IFN-γ were increased in the quercetin dihydrate-treated mice. These results suggest that quercetin dihydrate attenuates the inhibitory effect of PD-L1 on T cells by inhibiting the PD-1/PD-L1 interaction, which has an exciting potential to be used as a cancer chemopreventive agent.
Galectin-9 is a member of the galectin family of proteins, which were first identified to specifically bind to carbohydrates containing β-galactosides. Galectin-9 is conserved through evolution and recent evidence demonstrated its involvement in innate immune reactions to bacterial infections as well as the suppression of cytotoxic immune responses of T and natural killer cells. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying such differential immunological functions of galectin-9 remain largely unknown. In this work we confirmed that soluble galectin-9 derived from macrophages binds to Gram-negative bacteria by interacting with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which forms their cell wall. This opsonisation effect most likely interferes with the mobility of bacteria leading to their phagocytosis by innate immune cells. Galectin-9-dependent opsonisation also promotes the innate immune reactions of macrophages to these bacteria and significantly enhances the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines - interleukin (IL) 6, IL-1β and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). In contrast, galectin-9 did not bind peptidoglycan (PGN), which forms the cell wall of Gram-positive bacteria. Moreover, galectin-9 associated with cellular surfaces (studied in primary human embryonic cells) was not involved in the interaction with bacteria or bacterial colonisation. However, galectin-9 expressed on the surface of primary human embryonic cells, as well as soluble forms of galectin-9, were able to target T lymphocytes and caused apoptosis in T cells expressing granzyme B. Furthermore, "opsonisation" of T cells by galectin-9 led to the translocation of phosphatidylserine onto the cell surface and subsequent phagocytosis by macrophages through Tim-3, the receptor, which recognises both galectin-9 and phosphatidylserine as ligands.
Peptides are molecules that have emerged as crucial candidates for the development of anticancer drugs. Spider venoms are a rich source of peptides (venom peptides - VPs) with biological effects. VPs have been tested as adjuvants in the activation of cells of the immune system with the aim of improving immunotherapies for the treatment of neoplasms. In the present study, the effects of SNX-482, a peptide from the African tarantula Hysterocrates gigas, on macrophages were described. The results showed that the peptide activated M0-macrophages, increasing costimulatory molecules (CD40, CD68, CD80, CD83, CD86) involved in antigen presentation, and also augmenting the checkpoint molecules PD-L1, CTLA-4 and FAS-L; these effects were not concentration-dependent. SNX-482 also increased the release of IL-23 and upregulated the expression of ccr4, ifn-g, gzmb and pdcd1, genes important for the anticancer response. The pretreatment of macrophages with the peptide did not interfere in the modulation of T cells, and macrophages previously polarized to M1 and M2 profile did not respond to SNX-482. These findings represent the expansion of knowledge about the use of VPs in drug discovery, pointing to a potential new candidate for anticancer immunotherapy. Considering that most immunotherapies target the adaptive system, the modulation of macrophages (an innate immune cell) by SNX-482 is especially relevant.
The chemokine CXCL9 (C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9) has been reported to be required for antitumour immune responses following immune checkpoint blockade. In this study, we sought to investigate the potential value of CXCL9 according to immune responses in patients with breast cancer (BC). A variety of open-source databases and online tools were used to explore the expression features and prognostic significance of CXCL9 in BC and its correlation with immune-related biomarkers followed by subsequent verification with immunohistochemistry experiments. The CXCL9 mRNA level was found to be significantly higher in BC than in normal tissue and was associated with better survival outcomes in patients with ER-negative tumours. Moreover, CXCL9 is significantly correlated with immune cell infiltration and immune-related biomarkers, including CTLA4, GZMB, LAG3, PDCD1 and HAVCR2. Finally, we performed immunohistochemistry with breast cancer tissue samples and observed that CXCL9 is highly expressed in the ER-negative subgroup and positively correlated with the immune-related factors LAG3, PD1, PDL1 and CTLA4 to varying degrees. These findings suggest that CXCL9 is an underlying biomarker for predicting the status of immune infiltration in ER-negative breast cancer.
BACKGROUND: Previous studies revealed that the epithelial component is associated with the modulation of the ovarian tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the identification of key transcriptional signatures of laser capture microdissected human ovarian cancer epithelia remains lacking.METHODS: We identified the differentially expressed transcriptional signatures of human ovarian cancer epithelia by meta-analysis of GSE14407, GSE2765, GSE38666, GSE40595, and GSE54388. Then we investigated the enrichment of KEGG pathways that are associated with epithelia-derived transcriptomes. Finally, we investigated the correlation of key epithelia-hub genes with the survival prognosis and immune infiltrations. Finally, we investigated the genetic alterations of key prognostic hub genes and their diagnostic efficacy in ovarian cancer epithelia.RESULTS: We identified 1339 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in ovarian cancer epithelia including 541upregulated and 798 downregulated genes. We identified 21 (such as E2F4, FOXM1, TFDP1, E2F1, and SIN3A) and 11 (such as JUN, DDX4, FOSL1, NOC2L, and HMGA1) master transcriptional regulators (MTRs) that are interacted with upregulated and the downregulated genes in ovarian tumor epithelium, respectively. The STRING-based analysis identified hub genes (such as CDK1, CCNB1, AURKA, CDC20, and CCNA2) in ovarian cancer epithelia. The significant clusters of identified hub genes are associated with the enrichment of KEGG pathways including cell cycle, DNA replication, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, pathways in cancer, and focal adhesion. The upregulation of SCNN1A and CDCA3 and the downregulation of SOX6 are correlated with a shorter survival prognosis in ovarian cancer (OV). The expression level of SOX6 is negatively correlated with immune score and positively correlated with tumor purity in OV. Moreover, SOX6 is negatively correlated with the infiltration of TILs, CD8+ T cells, CD4+ Regulatory T cells, cytolytic activity, T cell activation, pDC, neutrophils, and macrophages in OV. Also, SOX6 is negatively correlated with various immune markers including CD8A, PRF1, GZMA, GZMB, NKG7, CCL3, and CCL4, indicating the immune regulatory efficiency of SOX6 in the TME of OV. Furthermore, SCNN1A, CDCA3, and SOX6 genes are genetically altered in OV and the expression levels of SCNN1A and SOX6 genes showed diagnostic efficacy in ovarian cancer epithelia.CONCLUSIONS: The identified ovarian cancer epithelial-derived key transcriptional signatures are significantly correlated with survival prognosis and immune infiltrations, and may provide new insight into the diagnosis and treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer.
Radioresistance is a major challenge that largely limits the efficacy of radiotherapy in lung cancer. Gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) are emerging as novel radiosensitizers for cancer patients. Therefore, this study was designed to explore the radiosensitizing effect and mechanism of AuNPs loaded with small interfering RNA (siRNA)-SP1 (AuNPs-si-SP1) on lung cancer. AuNPs-si-SP1 was prepared by the noncovalent binding between AuNPs and siRNA-SP1. The adsorption capacity of AuNPs to siRNA-SP1 was analyzed by gel electrophoresis. The cell uptake of AuNPs-si-SP1 was observed under a laser confocal microscopy. Silencing efficacy of AuNPs-si-SP1 was validated by RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis. Cell viability was determined by CCK-8 assay, radiosensitization by plate colony formation assay, cell apoptosis and cell cycle by flow cytometry, and DNA double strand breaks by immunofluorescence in the presence or absence of AuNPs-si-SP1 or GZMB. The downstream mechanism of SP1 was predicted by bioinformatics analysis, followed by verification by Western blot analysis. Subcutaneous tumorigenesis in nude mice was established to verify the radiosensitization of AuNPs-si-SP1 and GZMB in vivo. AuNPs-si-SP1 effectively absorbed SP1 siRNA and was highly internalized by A549 cells to reduce SP1 protein expression. AuNPs-si-SP1 or GZMB overexpression promoted cells to G2/M phase, DNA double strand breaks, and enhanced radiosensitivity. SP1 could repress GZMB expression in lung cancer cells. In vivo experiments manifested that AuNPs-si-SP1 could inhibit the growth of solid tumor in nude mice to achieve radiosensitization by inhibiting SP1 to upregulate GZMB. AuNPs-si-SP1 might increase the radiosensitivity of lung cancer by inhibiting SP1 to upregulate GZMB.
Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) is a severe childhood-onset inflammatory disease characterized by arthritis accompanied by systemic auto-inflammation and extra-articular symptoms. While recent advances have unraveled a range of risk factors, the pathomechanisms involved in SJIA and potential prognostic markers for treatment success remain partly unknown. In this study, we included 70 active SJIA and 55 healthy control patients from the National Center for Biotechnology Information to analyze for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using R. Functional enrichment analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI), and gene module construction were performed for DEGs and hub gene set. We additionally examined immune system cell composition with CIBERSORT and predicted prognostic markers and potential treatment drugs for SJIA. In total, 94 upregulated and 24 downregulated DEGs were identified. Two specific modules of interest and eight hub genes (ARG1, DEFA4, HP, MMP8, MMP9, MPO, OLFM4, PGLYRP1) were screened out. Functional enrichment analysis suggested that complex neutrophil-related functions play a decisive role in the disease pathogenesis. CIBERSORT indicated neutrophils, M0 macrophages, CD8+ T cells, and naïve B cells to be relevant drivers of disease progression. Additionally, we identified TPM2 and GZMB as potential prognostic markers for treatment response to canakinumab. Moreover, sulindac sulfide, (-)-catechin, and phenanthridinone were identified as promising treatment agents. This study provides a new insight into molecular and cellular pathogenesis of active SJIA and highlights potential targets for further research.
Erratum in    Cancer Cell Int. 2022 Jan 29;22(1):46.
Gene regulatory mechanisms that specify subtype identity of central complex (CX) neurons are the subject of intense investigation. The CX is a compartment within the brain common to all insect species and functions as a 'command center' that directs motor actions. It is made up of several thousand neurons, with more than 60 morphologically distinct identities. Accordingly, transcriptional programs must effect the specification of at least as many neuronal subtypes. We demonstrate a role for the transcription factor Shaking hands (Skh) in the specification of embryonic CX neurons in Tribolium. The developmental dynamics of skh expression are characteristic of terminal selectors of subtype identity. In the embryonic brain, skh expression is restricted to a subset of neurons, many of which survive to adulthood and contribute to the mature CX. skh expression is maintained throughout the lifetime in at least some CX neurons. skh knockdown results in axon outgrowth defects, thus preventing the formation of an embryonic CX primordium. The previously unstudied Drosophila skh shows a similar embryonic expression pattern, suggesting that subtype specification of CX neurons may be conserved.
Proinflammatory cytokine interleukin 32 (IL-32) is involved in infectious diseases and cancer, but what subtypes of immune cells express IL-32 and its roles in tumor microenvironment (TME) have not been well discussed. In this study, we applied bioinformatics to analyze single-cell RNA sequencing data about tumor-infiltrating immune cells from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) TME and analyzed IL-32 expression in different immune cell types. We found CD4+ regulatory T cells (Treg cells) express the highest level of IL-32, while proliferating T and natural killer cells expressed relatively lower levels. Knocking down of IL-32 reduced Foxp3 and interferon gamma (IFNγ) expressions in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, respectively. IL-32 was positively correlated with Foxp3, IFNG, and GZMB expression but was negatively correlated with proliferation score. IL-32 may have a contradictory role in the TME such as it promotes IFNγ expression in CD8+ T cells, which enhances the antitumor activity, but at the same time induces Foxp3 expression in CD4+ T cells, which suppresses the tumor immune response. Our results demonstrate different roles of IL-32 in Treg cells and CD8+ T cells and suggest that it can potentially be a target for ESCC cancer immunosuppressive therapy.
We previously demonstrated that tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) in human breast cancer sometimes form organized tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) characterized by CXCL13-producing T follicular helper (Tfh) cells. The present study found that CD4+ Tfh TIL, CD8+ TIL, and TIL-B, colocalizing in TLS, all express the CXCL13 receptor CXCR5. An ex vivo functional assay determined that only activated, functional Th1-oriented Tfh TIL (PD-1hiICOSint phenotype) provide help for immunoglobulin and IFN-γ production. A functional Tfh TIL presence signals an active TLS, characterized by humoral (immunoglobulins, Ki-67+ TIL-B in active germinal centers) and cytotoxic (GZMB+CD8+ and GZMB+CD68+ TIL plus Th1 gene expression) immune responses. Analysis of active versus inactive TLS in untreated patients revealed that the former are associated with positive clinical outcomes. TLS also contain functional T follicular regulatory (Tfr) TIL, which are characterized by a CD25+CXCR5+GARP+FOXP3+ phenotype and a demethylated FOXP3 gene. Functional Tfr inhibited functional Tfh activities via a glycoprotein A repetitions predominant (GARP)-associated TGF-β-dependent mechanism. The activity of tumor-associated TLS was dictated by the relative balance between functional Tfh TIL and functional Tfr TIL. These data provide mechanistic insight into TLS processes orchestrated by functional Th1-oriented Tfh TIL, including TIL-B and CD8+ TIL activation and immunological memory generation. Tfh TIL, regulated by functional Tfr TIL, are an expected key target of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade.
Plants respond to warm temperature by increased elongation growth of organs to enhance cooling capacity. Phytohormones, such as auxin and brassinosteroids, regulate this growth process. However, our view on the players involved in warm temperature-mediated growth remains fragmentary. Here, we show that warm temperature leads to an increased expression of JOXs and ST2A, genes controlling jasmonate catabolism. This leads to an elevated 12HSO4-JA level and consequently to a reduced level of bioactive jasmonates. Ultimately this results in more JAZ proteins, which facilitates plant growth under warm temperature conditions. Taken together, understanding the conserved role of jasmonate signalling during thermomorphogenesis contributes to ensuring food security under a changing climate.
To understand how a protective immune response against SARS-CoV-2 develops over time, we integrated phenotypic, transcriptional and repertoire analyses on PBMCs from mild and severe COVID-19 patients during and after infection, and compared them to healthy donors (HD). A type I IFN-response signature marked all the immune populations from severe patients during the infection. Humoral immunity was dominated by IgG production primarily against the RBD and N proteins, with neutralizing antibody titers increasing post infection and with disease severity. Memory B cells, including an atypical FCRL5+ T-BET+ memory subset, increased during the infection, especially in patients with mild disease. A significant reduction of effector memory, CD8+ T cells frequency characterized patients with severe disease. Despite such impairment, we observed robust clonal expansion of CD8+ T lymphocytes, while CD4+ T cells were less expanded and skewed toward TCM and TH2-like phenotypes. MAIT cells were also expanded, but only in patients with mild disease. Terminally differentiated CD8+ GZMB+ effector cells were clonally expanded both during the infection and post-infection, while CD8+ GZMK+ lymphocytes were more expanded post-infection and represented bona fide memory precursor effector cells. TCR repertoire analysis revealed that only highly proliferating T cell clonotypes, which included SARS-CoV-2-specific cells, were maintained post-infection and shared between the CD8+ GZMB+ and GZMK+ subsets. Overall, this study describes the development of immunity against SARS-CoV-2 and identifies an effector CD8+ T cell population with memory precursor-like features.
Head and neck squamous carcinoma (HNSCC) is highly infiltrated by immune cells, including tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and myeloid lineage cells. In the tumor microenvironment, tumor cells orchestrate a highly immunosuppressive microenvironment by secreting immunosuppressive mediators, expressing immune checkpoint ligands, and downregulating human leukocyte antigen expression. In the present study, we aimed to comprehensively profile the immune microenvironment of HNSCC using gene expression data obtained from public database. We calculated enrichment scores of 33 immune cell types based on gene expression data of HNSCC tissues and adjacent non-cancer tissues. Based on these scores, we performed non-supervised clustering and identified three immune signatures-cold, lymphocyte, and myeloid/dendritic cell (DC)-based on the clustering results. We then compared the clinical and biological features of the three signatures. Among HNSCC and non-cancer tissues, human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive HNSCCs exhibited the highest scores in various immune cell types, including CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, B cells, plasma cells, basophils, and their subpopulations. Among the three immune signatures, the proportions of HPV-positive tumors, oropharyngeal cancers, early T tumors, and N factor positive cases were significantly higher in the lymphocyte signature than in other signatures. Among the three signatures, the lymphocyte signature showed the longest overall survival (OS), especially in HPV-positive patients, whereas the myeloid/DC signature demonstrated the shortest OS in these patients. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed the upregulation of several pathways related to inflammatory and proinflammatory responses in the lymphocyte signature. The expression of PRF1, IFNG, GZMB, CXCL9, CXCL10, PDCD1, LAG3, CTLA4, HAVCR2, and TIGIT was the highest in the lymphocyte signature. Meanwhile, the expression of PD-1 ligand genes CD274 and PDCD1LG2 was highest in the myeloid/DC signature. Herein, our findings revealed the transcriptomic landscape of the immune microenvironment that closely reflects the clinical and biological significance of HNSCC, indicating that molecular profiling of the immune microenvironment can be employed to develop novel biomarkers and precision immunotherapies for HNSCC.
Many bacteria encode so-called cold shock proteins. These proteins are characterized by a conserved protein domain. Often, the bacteria have multiple cold shock proteins that are expressed either constitutively or at low temperatures. In the Gram-positive model bacterium Bacillussubtilis, two of three cold shock proteins, CspB and CspD, belong to the most abundant proteins suggesting a very important function. To get insights into the role of these highly abundant proteins, we analyzed the phenotypes of single and double mutants, tested the expression of the csp genes and the impact of CspB and CspD on global gene expression in B. subtilis. We demonstrate that the simultaneous loss of both CspB and CspD results in a severe growth defect, in the loss of genetic competence, and the appearance of suppressor mutations. Overexpression of the third cold shock protein CspC could compensate for the loss of CspB and CspD. The transcriptome analysis revealed that the lack of CspB and CspD affects the expression of about 20% of all genes. In several cases, the lack of the cold shock proteins results in an increased read-through at transcription terminators suggesting that CspB and CspD might be involved in the control of transcription termination.
In heterothallic basidiomycete fungi, sexual compatibility is restricted by mating types, typically controlled by two loci: PR, encoding pheromone precursors and pheromone receptors, and HD, encoding two types of homeodomain transcription factors. We analysed the single mating-type locus of the commercial button mushroom variety, Agaricus bisporus var. bisporus, and of the related variety burnettii. We identified the location of the mating-type locus using genetic map and genome information, corresponding to the HD locus, the PR locus having lost its mating-type role. We found the mip1 and β-fg genes flanking the HD genes as in several Agaricomycetes, two copies of the β-fg gene, an additional HD2 copy in the reference genome of A. bisporus var. bisporus and an additional HD1 copy in the reference genome of A. bisporus var. burnettii. We detected a 140 kb-long inversion between mating types in an A. bisporus var. burnettii heterokaryon, trapping the HD genes, the mip1 gene and fragments of additional genes. The two varieties had islands of transposable elements at the mating-type locus, spanning 35 kb in the A. bisporus var. burnettii reference genome. Linkage analyses showed a region with low recombination in the mating-type locus region in the A. bisporus var. burnettii variety. We found high differentiation between β-fg alleles in both varieties, indicating an ancient event of recombination suppression, followed more recently by a suppression of recombination at the mip1 gene through the inversion in A. bisporus var. burnettii and a suppression of recombination across whole chromosomes in A. bisporus var. bisporus, constituting stepwise recombination suppression as in many other mating-type chromosomes and sex chromosomes.
Schistosomiasis is a widespread helminth disease that poses a heavy social and economic burden on people worldwide. Advanced schistosomiasis often develops into schistosome-associated liver fibrosis, the pathogenesis of which remains unclear. This study aimed preliminarily to profile immune cells of schistosome-associated liver fibrosis using single-cell RNA sequencing. Three patient groups were enrolled, including an Schistosomiasis japonicum (SJ) group (n = 1), a chronic liver failure (CLF) group (n = 3) and a healthy control (HC) group (n = 2), revealing 17 cell clusters out of 20 093 cells. From these limited datasets, it was observed that T cell(1), mononuclear phagocytes-1 and dendritic cells (DCs) were higher in the SJ group. CAVIN2+ MP(2) was the predominant cell type in the MP subset of the SJ group (53%), and was higher than that in both the CLF (8%) and HC (1%) groups. Kupffer cell marker genes (CD163, MARCO and TIMD4) were enriched in caveolae-associated protein 2 (CAVIN2)+ MP(2), which was also an important source of TGFB1. The KEGG pathways of CAVIN2+ MP(2) indicated that they were associated with lysosome, endocytosis, phagosome and antigen processing and presentation. The preliminary study showed that granzyme B (GZMB)+ T cell(1) and ankyrin repeat domain-containing protein 36B+ T cell(3) were the most common T cells in the SJ group (50% and 32%, respectively). The KEGG pathways of GZMB+ T cell(1) were mainly related to natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity. The percentage of ring1 and YY1 binding protein (RYBP)+ DC(1) was higher in the SJ group (57%) than in the CLF (16%) and HC (6%) groups. The KEGG pathway of RYBP+ DC(1) was related to Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis and antigen processing and presentation. Overall, CAVIN2+ Kupffer cells were the main source of TGFB1, consisting primarily of mononuclear phagocytes in the livers of the SJ group subjects and potentially playing an irreplaceable role in hepatic fibrosis of schistosomiasis.
Immune cells of the tumor microenvironment are central but erratic targets for immunotherapy. The aim of this study was to characterize novel patterns of immune cell infiltration in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in relation to its molecular and clinicopathologic characteristics. Lymphocytes (CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, CD20+, FOXP3+, CD45RO+), macrophages (CD163+), plasma cells (CD138+), NK cells (NKp46+), PD1+, and PD-L1+ were annotated on a tissue microarray including 357 NSCLC cases. Somatic mutations were analyzed by targeted sequencing for 82 genes and a tumor mutational load score was estimated. Transcriptomic immune patterns were established in 197 patients based on RNA sequencing data. The immune cell infiltration was variable and showed only poor association with specific mutations. The previously defined immune phenotypic patterns, desert, inflamed, and immune excluded, comprised 30, 13, and 57% of cases, respectively. Notably, mRNA immune activation and high estimated tumor mutational load were unique only for the inflamed pattern. However, in the unsupervised cluster analysis, including all immune cell markers, these conceptual patterns were only weakly reproduced. Instead, four immune classes were identified: (1) high immune cell infiltration, (2) high immune cell infiltration with abundance of CD20+ B cells, (3) low immune cell infiltration, and (4) a phenotype with an imprint of plasma cells and NK cells. This latter class was linked to better survival despite exhibiting low expression of immune response-related genes (e.g. CXCL9, GZMB, INFG, CTLA4). This compartment-specific immune cell analysis in the context of the molecular and clinical background of NSCLC reveals two previously unrecognized immune classes. A refined immune classification, including traits of the humoral and innate immune response, is important to define the immunogenic potency of NSCLC in the era of immunotherapy. © 2021 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) significantly improve the survival of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but only some patients obtain clinical benefits. Predictive biomarkers for ICIs can accurately identify people who will benefit from immunotherapy. Lipid metabolism signaling plays a key role in the tumor microenvironment (TME) and immunotherapy. Hence, we aimed to explore the association between the mutation status of the lipid metabolism pathway and the prognosis of patients with NSCLC treated with ICIs. We downloaded the mutation data and clinical data of a cohort of patients with NSCLC who received ICIs. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression models were used to analyze the association between the mutation status of the lipid metabolism signaling and the prognosis of NSCLC receiving ICIs. Additionally, The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-NSCLC cohort was used to explore the relationships between the different mutation statuses of lipid metabolism pathways and the TME. Additionally, we found that patients with high numbers of mutations in the lipid metabolism pathway had significantly enriched macrophages (M0- and M1-type), CD4 + T cells (activated memory), CD8 + T cells, Tfh cells and gamma delta T cells, significantly increased expression of inflammatory genes [interferon-γ (IFNG), CD8A, GZMA, GZMB, CXCL9, and CXCL10] and enhanced immunogenic factors [neoantigen loads (NALs), tumor mutation burden (TMB), and DNA damage repair pathways]. In the local-NSCLC cohort, we found that the group with a high number of mutations had a significantly higher tumor mutation burden (TMB) and PD-L1 expression. High mutation status in the lipid metabolism pathway is associated with significantly prolonged progression-free survival (PFS) in NSCLC, indicating that this marker can be used as a predictive indicator for patients with NSCLC receiving ICIs.
Goat milk and oligosaccharides play important roles in gastrointestinal health. A combination of goat milk with three oligosaccharides, stachyose (STS), fructo-oligosaccharide (FOS), and a prebiotics mixture (FGS), was fed to mice. Changes and functions of the microbiota, short chain fatty acid (SCFA) concentrations, and immune gene expression in the small intestines were determined. The FOS treatment increased the beneficial bacteria Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium, the FGS treatment helped stabilize the microbial community, and the STS treatment significantly enhanced microbial diversity and the growth of Bacteroidetes. The oligosaccharide treatments regulated the gene expression levels of the immune factors tumor necrosis factor alpha (Tnfα), granzyme B (Gzmb), perforin (Prf), and aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr). Stachyose significantly increased the concentrations of acetate and propionate compared with other treatments. These findings demonstrate that STS is the preferred carbon source for microbiota, slightly modulates SCFA production, and results in low immunogenicity in the small intestines of mice.
Monoclonal anti-SARS-CoV-2 immunoglobulins represent a treatment option for COVID-19. However, their production in mammalian cells is not scalable to meet the global demand. Single-domain (VHH) antibodies (also called nanobodies) provide an alternative suitable for microbial production. Using alpaca immune libraries against the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein, we isolated 45 infection-blocking VHH antibodies. These include nanobodies that can withstand 95°C. The most effective VHH antibody neutralizes SARS-CoV-2 at 17-50 pM concentration (0.2-0.7 µg per liter), binds the open and closed states of the Spike, and shows a tight RBD interaction in the X-ray and cryo-EM structures. The best VHH trimers neutralize even at 40 ng per liter. We constructed nanobody tandems and identified nanobody monomers that tolerate the K417N/T, E484K, N501Y, and L452R immune-escape mutations found in the Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Epsilon, Iota, and Delta/Kappa lineages. We also demonstrate neutralization of the Beta strain at low-picomolar VHH concentrations. We further discovered VHH antibodies that enforce native folding of the RBD in the E. coli cytosol, where its folding normally fails. Such "fold-promoting" nanobodies may allow for simplified production of vaccines and their adaptation to viral escape-mutations.
Many proteins that can assemble into higher order structures termed amyloids can also concentrate into cytoplasmic inclusions via liquid-liquid phase separation. Here, we study the assembly of human Golgi-Associated plant Pathogenesis Related protein 1 (GAPR-1), an amyloidogenic protein of the Cysteine-rich secretory proteins, Antigen 5, and Pathogenesis-related 1 proteins (CAP) protein superfamily, into cytosolic inclusions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Overexpression of GAPR-1-GFP results in the formation GAPR-1 oligomers and fluorescent inclusions in yeast cytosol. These cytosolic inclusions are dynamic and reversible organelles that gradually increase during time of overexpression and decrease after promoter shut-off. Inclusion formation is, however, a regulated process that is influenced by factors other than protein expression levels. We identified N-myristoylation of GAPR-1 as an important determinant at early stages of inclusion formation. In addition, mutations in the conserved metal-binding site (His54 and His103) enhanced inclusion formation, suggesting that these residues prevent uncontrolled protein sequestration. In agreement with this, we find that addition of Zn2+ metal ions enhances inclusion formation. Furthermore, Zn2+ reduces GAPR-1 protein degradation, which indicates stabilization of GAPR-1 in inclusions. We propose that the properties underlying both the amyloidogenic properties and the reversible sequestration of GAPR-1 into inclusions play a role in the biological function of GAPR-1 and other CAP family members.
Serine proteinase inhibitor B9 (serpin B9) is a member of the serine protease inhibitor superfamily, which is widely found in animals, plants and microorganisms. Serpin B9 has been reported to protect cells from the immune‑killing effect of granzyme B (GrB) released by lymphocytes. In recent years, an increasing number of studies have indicated that serpin B9 is involved in tumour apoptosis, immune evasion, tumorigenesis, progression, metastasis, drug resistance and even in maintaining the stemness of cancer stem cells (CSCs). Moreover, according to clinical studies, serpin B9 has been demonstrated to be significantly associated with the development of precancerous lesions, a poor prognosis and ineffective therapies, suggesting that serpin B9 may be a potential target for cancer treatment and an indicator of cancer diagnosis; thus, it has begun to attract increased attention from scholars. The present review concisely described the structure and biological functions of the serpin superfamily and serpin B9. In addition, related research on serpins in cancer is discussed in order to provide a comprehensive understanding of the role of serpin B9 in cancer, as well as its clinical significance for cancer diagnosis and prognosis.
BACKGROUND: Even though immunotherapy has been an effective treatment for solid tumors, its efficacy in osteosarcoma remains sub-optimal. It is therefore imperative to understand the complex tumor microenvironment (TME) of osteosarcoma to facilitate the development of immunotherapies against this cancer.METHODS: The mRNA expression profiles of osteosarcoma tissues were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Next, the ssGSEA, MCP-counter, CIBERSORT, and Xcell algorithm analyses were performed to characterize the tumor microenvironment of osteosarcoma tissues. The tumor tissues were divided into inflammatory and non-inflammatory. A comprehensive assessment of immune cell infiltration in osteosarcoma tissues was then performed. Sub-group analysis of immune cell infiltration between men and women patients with osteosarcoma was also carried out.RESULTS: The results revealed that the infiltration of immune cells including activated B cell, activated CD8 T cell, CD56dim natural killer cell, and cytotoxic lymphocytes cells, in osteosarcoma tissues was higher in male than in female patients. Based on the infiltration profile of different immune cells, the osteosarcoma tissues were grouped into four clusters. The four clusters were further divided into hot and cold tumors. The differently expressed genes (DEGs) between cold and hot tumors were mainly associated with the activation and regulation of immune response. Additionally, a neuronal pentraxin (NPTX2) expression which was upregulated in cold tumors was found to be negatively correlated with the expression of CD8a Molecule (CD8A), Granzyme B (GZMB), and Interferon Gamma (IFNG). NPTX2 decreased CCL4 secretion. Knockdown of NPTX2 in osteosarcoma cells inhibited tumor growth and increased tumor cell apoptosis. Moreover, a prognosis prediction model of osteosarcoma was constructed and validated in patients receiving immunotherapy using external data.CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to characterize the infiltration of immune cells in osteosarcoma tissues from patients receiving immune infiltration therapy.
PURPOSE: Immune dysregulation complications cause significant morbidity and mortality in common variable immunodeficiency (CVID), but the underlying pathophysiology is poorly understood. While CVID is primarily considered a B-cell defect, resulting in the characteristic hypogammaglobulinemia, T-cells may also contribute to immune dysregulation complications. Here, we aim to further characterize T-cell activation and regulation in CVID with immune dysregulation (CVIDid).METHODS: Flow cytometry was performed to investigate T-cell differentiation, activation and intracellular cytokine production, negative regulators of immune activation, regulatory T-cells (Treg), and homing markers in 12 healthy controls, 12 CVID patients with infections only (CVIDio), and 20 CVIDid patients.RESULTS: Both CD4 + and CD8 + T-cells in CVIDid showed an increased activation profile (HLA-DR + , Ki67 + , IFNγ +) when compared to CVIDio, with concomitant upregulation of negative regulators of immune activation PD1, LAG3, CTLA4, and TIGIT. PD1 + and LAG3 + subpopulations contained equal or increased frequencies of cells with the capacity to produce IFNγ, Ki67, and/or GzmB. The expression of PD1 correlated with serum levels of CXCL9, 10, and 11. Treg frequencies were normal to high in CVIDid, but CVIDid Tregs had reduced CTLA-4 expression, especially on CD27 + effector Tregs. Increased migratory capacity to inflamed and mucosal tissue was also observed in CVIDid T-cells.CONCLUSION: CVIDid was characterized by chronic activation of peripheral T-cells with preserved inflammatory potential rather than functional exhaustion, and increased tissue migratory capacity. While Treg numbers were normal in CVIDid Tregs, low levels of CTLA-4 indicate possible Treg dysfunction. Combined studies of T-cell dysfunction and circulating inflammatory proteins may direct future treatment strategies.
Although T-cell therapy is a remarkable breakthrough in cancer immunotherapy, the therapeutic efficacy is limited for solid tumors. A major cause of the low efficacy is T-cell exhaustion by immunosuppressive mechanisms of solid tumors, which are mainly mediated by programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β). Herein, T-cell-derived nanovesicles (TCNVs) produced by the serial extrusion of cytotoxic T cells through membranes with micro-/nanosized pores that inhibit T-cell exhaustion and exhibit antitumoral activity maintained in the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) are presented. TCNVs, which have programmed cell death protein 1 and TGF-β receptor on their surface, block PD-L1 on cancer cells and scavenge TGF-β in the immunosuppressive TME, thereby preventing cytotoxic-T-cell exhaustion. In addition, TCNVs directly kill cancer cells via granzyme B delivery. TCNVs successfully suppress tumor growth in syngeneic-solid-tumor-bearing mice. Taken together, TCNV offers an effective cancer immunotherapy strategy to overcome the tumor's immunosuppressive mechanisms.
OBJECTIVE: To study decidualization-associated endometrial factors.DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study to compare endometrial gene expression patterns in women experiencing reproductive failure including recurrent pregnancy loss or unexplained infertility versus fertile controls.SETTING: University Reproductive Medicine Center.PATIENTS: Women experiencing recurrent reproductive failure including recurrent pregnancy loss or unexplained infertility (n = 42) and fertile controls (n = 18).INTERVENTIONS: Endometrial biopsy samples were analyzed with targeted ribonucleic acid sequencing via next-generation sequencing.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary end point measurements were the expression of genes important for endometrial transformation during decidualization measured singly and in a combined/cumulative score approach. The secondary end point measurements were receiver operating curve analysis and comparisons between the specific biomarkers.RESULTS: The comparison revealed differential expression of factors associated with decidualization, tissue homeostasis, and immune regulation: FOXO1, GZMB, IL15, SCNN1A, SGK1, and SLC2A1. A combined evaluation of these 6 signature factors was designated as a decidualization score in which the maximal score was "6" and the minimal was "0". Among controls, 89% of the samples had a score ≥5 and 11% had a score of "4". A total of 76% of samples in the patient group had scores ≤4 and 19% had the lowest score of "0". A decidualization score <4 provided evidence of abnormality in the decidualization process with a sensitivity of 76% (95% CI 61%-88%) and specificity of 89% (95% CI 65%-99%).CONCLUSIONS: Decidualization scoring can determine whether the endometrial molecular profile is implantation-friendly. Further validation of this testing approach is necessary to determine a particular patient population in whom it could be used for selecting patients that require therapeutic actions to improve endometrial conditions prior to the in vitro fertilization procedure.
Interferon gamma (IFN-γ) is considered a key moderator of cell-mediated immunity. However, little is known about its association with granzyme B, which plays an important role in the effector function of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). In the present study, we collected blood samples from 32 healthy adults before and after vaccination with inactivated influenza vaccine in 2017/18 to measure the levels of IFN-γ and granzyme B, which play roles in cell-mediated immunity, and hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) antibody, which plays a role in humoral immunity. The levels of IFN-γ and granzyme B were significantly correlated both before and after vaccination. Furthermore, the post-vaccine fold increases in the IFN-γ and granzyme B levels were significantly correlated. The levels of IFN-γ and granzyme B decreased five months after vaccination in more than half of the subjects who exhibited an increase in IFN-γ and granzyme B at two weeks post-vaccination. This is the first study to investigate the correlation between IFN-γ and granzyme B levels following influenza vaccination. Our study suggests that both IFN-γ and granzyme B can be used as markers of cell-mediated immunity.
BACKGROUND: The insect neuroendocrine system acts in the regulation of physiology, development and growth. Molecular evolution of this system hence has the potential to allow for major biological differences between insect groups. Two prohormone convertases, PC1/3 and PC2, are found in animals and both function in the processing of neuropeptide precursors in the vertebrate neurosecretory pathway. Whereas PC2-function is conserved between the fly Drosophila and vertebrates, ancestral PC1/3 was lost in the fly lineage and has not been functionally studied in any protostome.RESULTS: In order to understand its original functions and the changes accompanying the gene loss in the fly, we investigated PC1/3 and PC2 expression and function in the beetle Tribolium castaneum. We found that PC2 is broadly expressed in the nervous system, whereas surprisingly, PC1/3 expression is restricted to specific cell groups in the posterior brain and suboesophageal ganglion. Both proteases have parallel but non-redundant functions in adult beetles' viability and fertility. Female infertility following RNAi is caused by a failure to deposit sufficient yolk to the developing oocytes. Larval RNAi against PC2 produced moulting defects where the larvae were not able to shed their old cuticle. This ecdysis phenotype was also observed in a small subset of PC1/3 knockdown larvae and was strongest in a double knockdown. Unexpectedly, most PC1/3-RNAi larvae showed strongly reduced growth, but went through larval moults despite minimal to zero weight gain.CONCLUSIONS: The cell type-specific expression of PC1/3 and its essential requirement for larval growth highlight the important role of this gene within the insect neuroendocrine system. Genomic conservation in most insect groups suggests that it has a comparable individual function in other insects as well, which has been replaced by alternative mechanisms in flies.
Identification of novel immune biomarkers to gauge the underlying pathology and severity of COVID-19 has been difficult due to the lack of longitudinal studies. Here, we analyzed serum collected upon COVID-19 admission (t1), 48 hours (t2), and seven days later (t3) using Olink proteomics and correlated to clinical, demographics, and therapeutic data. Older age positively correlated with decorin, pleiotrophin, and TNFRS21 but inversely correlated with chemokine (both C-C and C-X-C type) ligands, monocyte attractant proteins (MCP) and TNFRS14. The burden of pre-existing conditions was positively correlated with MCP-4, CAIX, TWEAK, TNFRS12A, and PD-L2 levels. Individuals with COVID-19 demonstrated increased expression of several chemokines, most notably from the C-C and C-X-C family, as well as MCP-1 and MCP-3 early in the course of the disease. Similarly, deceased individuals had elevated MCP-1 and MCP-3 as well as Gal-9 serum levels. LAMP3, GZMB, and LAG3 at admission correlated with mortality. Only CX3CL13 and MCP-4 correlated positively with APACHE score and length of stay, while decorin, MUC-16 and TNFRSF21 with being admitted to the ICU. We also identified several organ-failure-specific immunological markers, including those for respiratory (IL-18, IL-15, Gal-9) or kidney failure (CD28, VEGF). Treatment with hydroxychloroquine, remdesivir, convalescent plasma, and steroids had a very limited effect on the serum variation of biomarkers. Our study identified several potential targets related to COVID-19 heterogeneity (MCP-1, MCP-3, MCP-4, TNFR superfamily members, and programmed death-ligand), suggesting a potential role of these molecules in the pathology of COVID-19.
Primary autosomal recessive microcephaly and Seckel syndrome spectrum disorders (MCPH-SCKS) include a heterogeneous group of autosomal recessive inherited diseases characterized by primary (congenital) microcephaly, the absence of visceral abnormalities, and a variable degree of cognitive impairment, short stature and facial dysmorphism. Recently, biallelic variants in the nuclear pore complex (NPC) component nucleoporin 85 gene (NUP85) were reported to cause steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome (SRNS). Here, we report biallelic variants in NUP85 in two pedigrees with an MCPH-SCKS phenotype spectrum without SRNS, thereby expanding the phenotypic spectrum of NUP85-linked diseases. Structural analysis predicts the identified NUP85 variants cause conformational changes that could have an effect on NPC architecture or on its interaction with other NUPs. We show that mutant NUP85 is, however, associated with a reduced number of NPCs but unaltered nucleocytoplasmic compartmentalization, abnormal mitotic spindle morphology, and decreased cell viability and proliferation in one patient's cells. Our results also indicate the link of common cellular mechanisms involved in MCPH-SCKS spectrum disorders and NUP85-associated diseases. In addition to the previous studies, our results broaden the phenotypic spectrum of NUP85-linked human disease and propose a role for NUP85 in nervous system development.
Potential future application of engineered gene drives (GDs), which bias their own inheritance and can spread genetic modifications in wild target populations, has sparked both enthusiasm and concern. Engineered GDs in insects could potentially be used to address long-standing challenges in control of disease vectors, agricultural pests and invasive species, or help to rescue endangered species, and thus provide important public benefits. However, there are concerns that the deliberate environmental release of GD modified insects may pose different or new harms to animal and human health and the wider environment, and raise novel challenges for risk assessment. Risk assessors, risk managers, developers, potential applicants and other stakeholders at many levels are currently discussing whether there is a need to develop new or additional risk assessment guidance for the environmental release of GD modified organisms, including insects. Developing new or additional guidance that is useful and practical is a challenge, especially at an international level, as risk assessors, risk managers and many other stakeholders have different, often contrasting, opinions and perspectives toward the environmental release of GD modified organisms, and on the adequacy of current risk assessment frameworks for such organisms. Here, we offer recommendations to overcome some of the challenges associated with the potential future development of new or additional risk assessment guidance for GD modified insects and provide considerations on areas where further risk assessment guidance may be required.
Land plants constantly respond to fluctuations in their environment. Part of their response is the production of a diverse repertoire of specialized metabolites. One of the foremost sources for metabolites relevant to environmental responses is the phenylpropanoid pathway, which was long thought to be a land-plant-specific adaptation shaped by selective forces in the terrestrial habitat. Recent data have, however, revealed that streptophyte algae, the algal relatives of land plants, have candidates for the genetic toolkit for phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and produce phenylpropanoid-derived metabolites. Using phylogenetic and sequence analyses, we here show that the enzyme families that orchestrate pivotal steps in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis have independently undergone pronounced radiations and divergence in multiple lineages of major groups of land plants; sister to many of these radiated gene families are streptophyte algal candidates for these enzymes. These radiations suggest a high evolutionary versatility in the enzyme families involved in the phenylpropanoid-derived metabolism across embryophytes. We suggest that this versatility likely translates into functional divergence, and may explain the key to one of the defining traits of embryophytes: a rich specialized metabolism.
Background: Lung cancer has always been the most prevalent cancer. Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common lung cancer subtype and has a high tumor mutation rate. In addition to KRAS, EGFR, ALK, HER2, ROS1, and BRAF, which are known to have high mutation rates, we discovered some new mutated genes, such as catenin alpha-2 (CTNNA2), in LUAD patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). These mutant genes are potential therapeutic targets for LUAD. Methods: We analyzed a cohort of LUAD patients with somatic mutation and survival data in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database and a cohort of LUAD patients receiving immune checkpoint inhibitors with clinical data and whole-exome sequencing (WES) mutation data to evaluate the role of CTNNA2 gene mutation in LUAD. In addition, CIBERSORT was used to analyze the immune characteristics of CTNNA2 wild-type patients and CTNNA2 mutant-type patients, and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was employed for pathway enrichment analysis. The results were verified by downloading data regarding the drug sensitivity of LUAD cell lines from the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC) database. Results: We found that CTNNA2 mutation was associated with longer overall survival (OS) in LUAD patients. Analysis of the cohort from the Cancer Genome Atlas showed that patients with CTNNA2 mutation had more tumor neoantigens and a greater tumor mutation burden (TMB). Through further analysis of the tumor immune microenvironment, we found that in LUAD patients with CTNNA2 mutations, the gene expression levels of chemokine C-X-C motif chemokine 9 (CXCL9) and granzyme B (GZMB) were elevated, and the gene expression level of inhibitory receptor killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor 2DL1 (KIR2DL1) was significantly reduced. These alterations might affect gene expression in macrophages, NK cells, and mast cell markers. In addition, LUAD patients with CTNNA2 mutation had a significantly increased number of mutations in DNA damage response (DDR) genes. The drug susceptibility results and gene set enrichment analysis showed that after CTNNA2 mutation occurred, changes were found in the DNA damage response pathway, the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway and others, indicating that CTNNA2 mutation can regulate the activation of PI3K and DDR pathways. Conclusion: Our findings provide novel insights into the underlying pathogenesis of LUAD. CTNNA2 mutation can change the immune microenvironment, thereby improving patient prognosis. The results also suggest that CTNNA2 may become a new biomarker and therapeutic target for LUAD in the future.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Current standard-of-care suppresses HBV replication, but does not lead to a functional cure. Treatment aiming to cure chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is believed to require the induction of strong cellular immune responses, such as by therapeutic vaccination.METHODS: We designed a therapeutic HBV vaccine candidate (YF17D/HBc-C) using yellow fever vaccine YF17D as a live-attenuated vector to express HBV core antigen (HBc). Its ability to induce potent cellular immune responses was assessed in a mouse model that supports flavivirus replication.RESULTS: Following a HBc protein prime, a booster of YF17D/HBc-C was found to induce vigorous cytotoxic T cell responses. In a direct head-to-head comparison, these HBc-specific responses exceeded those elicited by adenovirus-vectored HBc. Target-specific T cells were not only more abundant, but also showed a higher degree of polyfunctionality, with HBc-specific CD8+ T cells producing interferon γ and tumour necrosis factor α in addition to granzyme B. This immune phenotype translated into a superior cytotoxic effector activity toward HBc-positive cells in YF17D/HBc-C vaccinated animals in vivo.CONCLUSIONS: The results presented here show the potential of YF17D/HBc-C as a vaccine candidate to treat CHB, and warrant follow-up studies in preclinical animal models of HBV persistence in which other candidate vaccines have been unable to achieve a sustained virologic response.LAY SUMMARY: Resolution of CHB requires the induction of strong cellular immune responses. We used the yellow fever vaccine as a vector for HBV antigens and show that it is capable of inducing high levels of HBV-specific T cells that produce multiple cytokines simultaneously and are cytotoxic in vivo.
RNA turnover is essential in all domains of life. The endonuclease RNase Y (rny) is one of the key components involved in RNA metabolism of the model organism Bacillus subtilis. Essentiality of RNase Y has been a matter of discussion, since deletion of the rny gene is possible, but leads to severe phenotypic effects. In this work, we demonstrate that the rny mutant strain rapidly evolves suppressor mutations to at least partially alleviate these defects. All suppressor mutants had acquired a duplication of an about 60 kb long genomic region encompassing genes for all three core subunits of the RNA polymerase-α, β, β'. When the duplication of the RNA polymerase genes was prevented by relocation of the rpoA gene in the B. subtilis genome, all suppressor mutants carried distinct single point mutations in evolutionary conserved regions of genes coding either for the β or β' subunits of the RNA polymerase that were not tolerated by wild type bacteria. In vitro transcription assays with the mutated polymerase variants showed a severe decrease in transcription efficiency. Altogether, our results suggest a tight cooperation between RNase Y and the RNA polymerase to establish an optimal RNA homeostasis in B. subtilis cells.
Objective: Both rhino-orbital-cerebral mycosis and lethal midline granuloma (LMG) may result in midline destruction. LMG has now been generally considered as a natural killer/T cell lymphoma, nasal type (ENKTL-NT) with an association of EBV. Fungi have been detected from the diseased tissues now and then but are often considered as lymphoma-associated infections. We previously reported an ENKTL-NT case with Mucor irregularis, which played a causal role in the disease and was involved in the overexpression of Ki67 and CD56 in the mouse experiment. The present study describes a chronic Rhizopus arrhizus infection with immunological parameters that are closely similar to LMG. We aim to explore the relationship of another Mucorales fungus, R. arrhizus, and LMG in a patient and in mice. Methods: Case study and mouse infection modules were designed for our observation. A 35-year-old man with midline face ulcers which was clinically suspected as LMG was selected. Biopsy specimens were sent for lymphoma diagnosis and microbiological detection. The isolated fungus was tested in an ICR mouse model for mycological and histological analyses. Results: Five tissue samples yielded Rhizopus arrhizus. In the pathology, characteristic inflammation, necrosis, and granulation with thin-walled hyphae are observed. Immunohistochemistry showed NK/T cell infiltration (CD3+, CD8+, TIA1+, GZMB+, PRF+, individual CD56+) with hyperplasia (Ki67+) and angioinvasion. The patient recovered completely with amphotericin B. In the murine experiment, R. arrhizus caused angioinvasion with NK/T cell infiltration (CD3+, CD56+, TIA1+, GZMB +, PRF+) with proliferation (Ki67+) and was re-isolated from the infected host. Conclusions: We here describe a mid-face destruction patient, which was diagnosed by the top pathologists in China according to the current criteria of NK/T cell lymphoma, with a negative result for EBV and positive result for R. arrhizus. With a then developed mouse experiment, the R. arrhizus in the diseased lesions was responsible for the NK/T cell infiltration (CD3+, CD8+, CD56+, TIA1+, GZMB+, PRF+), proliferation (Ki67+), and angioinvasion, suggesting another fungal etiological agent for LMG, which could be eradicated with amphotericin B. Limitations: The sample size is not sufficient for statistical analysis. However, our findings are suggestive for the role fungus plays in LMG.
Granzyme B-producing B cells have been reportedly reported to be an important regulatory B cell subset in the pathogenesis of many diseases. However, its role in liver transplant recipients with acute rejection has never been well elucidated. Seventeen liver transplant recipients with acute rejection and 25 controls with stable liver function were enrolled in this study to determine the function of granzyme B-producing B cells via flow cytometry. Liver transplant recipients with acute rejection had higher expression of granzyme B in CD19+B cells when compared with controls. Following rejection, the granzyme B production was even elevated although comparison failed to reach significance. The percentages of CD27+granzyme B+CD19+B cells and CD138+granzyme B+CD19+B cells were lower than those of CD27-granzyme B+CD19+B cells and CD138-granzyme B+CD19+B cells in patients with acute rejection, respectively. While the production of CD27 and CD138 was not different between liver transplant recipients with and without acute rejection but increased expression of the two surface markers was observed following rejection. Furthermore, the frequency of granzyme B+CD19+B cells correlated with the level of alanine aminotransferase instead of tacrolimus. CD19+B cells could produce granzyme B when stimulated with IgG + IgM and CpG in the presence of the supernatant of activated CD4+CD25-T cells. In return, granzyme B+CD19+B cells could suppress the proliferation of CD4+CD25-T cells in a granzyme B- and contact-dependent manner. The increased expression of granzyme B in CD19+B cells from liver transplant recipients with acute rejection might function as a feedback loop for the activation of the CD4+CD25-T cells.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a promising, selective pest control technology based on the silencing of targeted genes mediated by the degradation of mRNA after the ingestion of double-stranded (ds) RNA. However, the identification of the best target genes remains a challenge, because large scale screening is only feasible in lab model systems and it remains unclear, to what degree such data can be transferred to pest species. Here, we report on our efforts to transfer target genes found in a lab model to the mustard leaf beetle, Phaedon cochleariae. The mustard leaf beetle can be reared easily and resource-efficient in large quantities all year round and is an established chrysomelid pest for higher throughput screening approaches in the crop protection industry. Mustard leaf beetle transcriptome sequencing and assembly revealed genes orthologous to those previously described as highly efficient RNAi targets in the model beetle Tribolium castaneum. First, we observed mortality after injection of dsRNA targeting the respective orthologous genes in 2nd instar mustard beetle larvae. Next, we adopted a robust, automated multi-well plate foliar RNAi screening procedure with 2nd instar larvae of the mustard leaf beetle to assess those genes. Indeed, foliar application and oral uptake of dsRNA targeting the same genes resulted in larval mortality as well. The most effective target genes with a strong (lethal) phenotype - at dsRNA doses as low as 300 ng/leaf disc (equal to 9.6 g/ha) - were srp54k, rop, αSNAP, rpn7 and rpt3. Rather limited effects were observed after application of dsRNA targeting cactus, shibire and PP-α, though they had previously been shown to be highly lethal in red flour beetle. Importantly, our experiments demonstrated that the overall efficacy pattern obtained after oral dsRNA application was well correlated with the results obtained after dsRNA injection. RT-qPCR confirmed significant target gene knock-down after normalization by employing three reference genes shown to be stably expressed across life stages. In summary, several RNAi targeted genes elicited a strong lethal phenotype and significant target gene knock-down after feeding, suggesting P. cochleariae as a potential coleopteran screening model for foliarly applied exogenous RNAi.
Group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s) in the gut mucosa have long been thought to be noncytotoxic lymphocytes that are critical for homeostasis of intestinal epithelial cells through secretion of IL-22. Recent work using human tonsillar cells demonstrated that ILC3s exposed to exogenous inflammatory cytokines for a long period of time acquired expression of granzyme B, suggesting that under pathological conditions ILC3s may become cytotoxic. We hypothesized that inflammation associated with bacterial exposure might trigger granzyme B expression in gut ILC3s. To test this, we exposed human colon lamina propria mononuclear cells to a panel of enteric bacteria. We found that the Gram-negative commensal and pathogenic bacteria induced granzyme B expression in a subset of ILC3s that were distinct from IL-22-producing ILC3s. A fraction of granzyme B+ ILC3s coexpressed the cytolytic protein perforin. Granzyme B expression was mediated, in part, by IL-15 produced upon exposure to bacteria. ILC3s coexpressing all three IL-15R subunits (IL15Rα/β/γ) increased following bacterial stimulation, potentially allowing for cis presentation of IL-15 during bacterial exposure. Additionally, a large frequency of colonic myeloid dendritic cells expressed IL-15Rα, implicating myeloid dendritic cells in trans presentation of IL-15 to ILC3s. Tonsillar ILC3s minimally expressed granzyme B when exposed to the same bacteria or to rIL-15. Overall, these data establish the novel, to our knowledge, finding that human colonic ILC3s can express granzyme B in response to a subset of enteric bacteria through a process mediated by IL-15. These observations raise new questions about the multifunctional role of human gut ILC3s.
Glycosylceramides are abundant membrane components in vascular plants and are associated with cell differentiation, organogenesis, and protein secretion. Long-chain base (LCB) Δ4-desaturation is an important structural feature for metabolic channeling of sphingolipids into glycosylceramide formation in plants and fungi. In Arabidopsis thaliana, LCB Δ4-unsaturated glycosylceramides are restricted to pollen and floral tissue, indicating that LCB Δ4-desaturation has a less important overall physiological role in A. thaliana. In the bryophyte Physcomitrium patens, LCB Δ4-desaturation is a feature of the most abundant glycosylceramides of the gametophyte generation. Metabolic changes in the P. patens null mutants for the sphingolipid Δ4-desaturase (PpSD4D) and the glycosylceramide synthase (PpGCS), sd4d-1 and gcs-1, were determined by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with nanoelectrospray ionization and triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometry analysis. sd4d-1 plants lacked unsaturated LCBs and the most abundant glycosylceramides. gcs-1 plants lacked all glycosylceramides and accumulated hydroxyceramides. While sd4d-1 plants mostly resembled wild-type plants, gcs-1 mutants were impaired in growth and development. These results indicate that LCB Δ4-desaturation is a prerequisite for the formation of the most abundant glycosylceramides in P. patens. However, loss of unsaturated LCBs does not affect plant viability, while blockage of glycosylceramide synthesis in gcs-1 plants causes severe plant growth and development defects.
Prevention of estrogen receptor-negative (ER-) breast cancer is an unmet challenge, although tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors can successfully decrease the incidence of ER-positive (ER+) breast cancer. PI3K pathway activation has been detected in tamoxifen-resistant ER- breast lesions of patients. Here, we further ratified that the PI3K pathway is significantly activated in premalignant ER- breast lesions compared with paired normal tissues of patients, which prompted our assessment of targeting PI3K on inhibition of ER- mammary tumor initiation and progression. Both genetic knockdown of PIK3CA or intervention with low-doses of a PI3K inhibitor (GDC-0941) prevented the dysplasia phenotype of semi-transformed human ER- mammary epithelial cells in 3-dimensional culture in vitro. Importantly, low-dose GDC-0941 treatment significantly delayed mammary tumor initiation in the MMTV-neu mouse model without exhibiting discernable adverse effects. Interestingly, increased CD8+/GZMB+ T-cells were detected in mammary tissue after GDC-0941 treatment, suggesting enhanced immune surveillance. Mechanistically, elevated expression of potent T-cell chemo-attractants, including CCL5 and CXCL10, were detected both in vitro and in vivo after GDC-0941 treatment. Furthermore, inhibition of PI3K significantly increased T-cell recruitment in a CCL5/CXCL10-dependent manner. In human ER- breast cancer, PI3K activation is correlated with significantly reduced CCL5, CXCL10 and CD8A expression, suggesting that the decreased CD8+ T-cell recruitment and escape of immune surveillance may contribute to ER- breast cancer development. In summary, our study indicates that low-dose PI3K inhibitor treatment may intervene early stage ER- breast cancer development by enhancing immune surveillance via CCL5/CXCL10.
The search for successful therapies of infections with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 is ongoing. We tested inhibition of host cell nucleotide synthesis as a promising strategy to decrease the replication of SARS-CoV-2-RNA, thus diminishing the formation of virus progeny. Methotrexate (MTX) is an established drug for cancer therapy and to induce immunosuppression. The drug inhibits dihydrofolate reductase and other enzymes required for the synthesis of nucleotides. Strikingly, the replication of SARS-CoV-2 was inhibited by MTX in therapeutic concentrations around 1 µM, leading to more than 1000-fold reductions in virus progeny in Vero C1008 (Vero E6) and ~100-fold reductions in Calu-3 cells. Virus replication was more sensitive to equivalent concentrations of MTX than of the established antiviral agent remdesivir. MTX strongly diminished the synthesis of viral structural proteins and the amount of released virus RNA. Virus replication and protein synthesis were rescued by folinic acid (leucovorin) and also by inosine, indicating that purine depletion is the principal mechanism that allows MTX to reduce virus RNA synthesis. The combination of MTX with remdesivir led to synergistic impairment of virus replication, even at 100 nM MTX. The use of MTX in treating SARS-CoV-2 infections still awaits further evaluation regarding toxicity and efficacy in infected organisms, rather than cultured cells. Within the frame of these caveats, however, our results raise the perspective of a two-fold benefit from repurposing MTX for treating COVID-19. Firstly, its previously known ability to reduce aberrant inflammatory responses might dampen respiratory distress. In addition, its direct antiviral activity described here would limit the dissemination of the virus.
BACKGROUND: Blood borne cell free nucleic acids are increasingly emerging as significant non-invasive adjuncts to current methods of disease status evaluation in cancer patients. In this study, we sought to examine whether significant differences exist in the plasma transcriptomic profile of advanced melanoma patients with a high disease burden compared to patients with a low disease burden or therapeutic response.METHODS: Pathway focussed gene expression analysis was performed using cDNA derived from the plasma circulating cell free messenger ribonucleic acid (ccfmRNA) samples of twenty-two patients with advanced melanoma. Patients were assessed with paired blood sample collection and CT scan assessments at baseline and at 3 months follow up.RESULTS: We identified several genes which were significantly over-expressed in patients with a low disease burden or therapeutic response; BCL2L1, CXCL9, IDO1, IL13, MIF, MYD88 and TLR4 (p ≤ 0.001, versus high disease burden). There was an increase in the magnitude of fold change (2^ (-dd CT)) of BCL2L1 (p = 0.031), CCL4 (p = 0.001), CCL5 (p = 0.043), CXCL9 (p = 0.012), GZMB (p = 0.023) and TNFSF10 (p = 0.039) genes in patients with therapeutic response at 3 months follow up assessment relative to baseline assessment. Moreover, in stage IV melanoma patients with brain metastases, CCL18, CCR1, CCR4, CD274, CSF2, EGF, and PTGS2 genes were significantly over-expressed (p < 0.001, versus patients without melanoma brain metastasis).CONCLUSION: Significant differences were observed in the plasma transcriptomic profile between the various melanoma patient groups, and we postulate that these differences may be exploited to identify novel therapeutic targets or biomarkers relevant to melanoma.
Functional HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells primed from naive T cells are expected to act as effector T cells in a "shock-and-kill" therapeutic strategy for an HIV-1 cure since less functional HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells are elicited from memory T cells in HIV-1-infected individuals on combined antiretroviral therapy (cART). CD8+ T cells specific for HIV-1 conserved and protective epitopes are candidates for such T cells. We investigated the priming with STING ligand of CD8+ T cells specific for HLA-B*52:01 or HLA-C*12:02-restricted protective epitopes from naive T cells. STING ligand 3'3'-cGAMP effectively primed CD8+ T cells specific for 3 of 4 HLA-B*52:01-restricted epitopes but failed to prime those specific for all 3 HLA-C*12:02-restricted epitopes from the naive T cells of HIV-1-uninfected individuals having an HLA-B*52:01-C*12:02 protective haplotype. These HLA-B*52:01-restricted CD8+ T cells had a strong ability to suppress HIV-1 replication and expressed a high level of cytolytic effector molecules. The viral suppression ability of these T cells was significantly correlated with the expression level of perforin and showed a trend for a positive correlation with the expression level of CD107a. The present study highlighted the priming with STING ligand of functional CD8+ T cells specific for protective epitopes, which T cells would contribute as effector T cells to a shock-and-kill therapy. IMPORTANCE The current "shock-and-kill" therapeutic strategy for HIV cure has been directed toward eliminating latent viral reservoirs by reactivation of latent reservoirs with latency-reversing agents followed by eradication of these cells by immune-mediated responses. Although HIV-1-specific T cells are expected to eradicate viral reservoirs, the function of these T cells is reduced in HIV-1-infected individuals with long-term cART. Therefore, priming of HIV-1-specific T cells with high function from naive T cells is to be expected in these individuals. In this study, we demonstrated the priming with STING ligand 3'3'-cGAMP of CD8+ T cells specific for HIV-1-protective epitopes from naive T cells. cGAMP primed CD8+ T cells specific for 3 HLA-B*52:01-restricted protective epitopes, which cells expressed a high level of cytolytic effector molecules and effectively suppressed HIV-1 replication. The present study suggested that the priming with STING ligand of functional CD8+ T cells specific for protective epitopes would be useful in a therapy for an HIV-1 cure.
Cytotoxic CD4+ T cells (CD4 CTL) are terminally differentiated T helper cells that contribute to autoimmune diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. We developed a novel triple co-culture transwell assay to study mutual interactions between CD4 CTL, conventional TH cells, and regulatory T cells (Tregs) simultaneously. We show that, while CD4 CTL are resistant to suppression by Tregs in vitro, the conditioned medium of CD4 CTL accentuates the suppressive phenotype of Tregs by upregulating IL-10, Granzyme B, CTLA-4, and PD-1. We demonstrate that CD4 CTL conditioned medium skews memory TH cells to a TH17 phenotype, suggesting that the CD4 CTL induce bystander polarization. In our triple co-culture assay, the CD4 CTL secretome promotes the proliferation of TH cells, even in the presence of Tregs. However, when cell-cell contact is established between CD4 CTL and TH cells, the proliferation of TH cells is no longer increased and Treg-mediated suppression is restored. Taken together, our results suggest that when TH cells acquire cytotoxic properties, these Treg-resistant CD4 CTL affect the proliferation and phenotype of conventional TH cells in their vicinity. By creating such a pro-inflammatory microenvironment, CD4 CTL may favor their own persistence and expansion, and that of other potentially pathogenic TH cells, thereby contributing to pathogenic responses in autoimmune disorders.
Cytosolic lipid droplets (LDs) are organelles which emulsify a variety of hydrophobic molecules in the aqueous cytoplasm of essentially all plant cells. Most familiar are the LDs from oilseeds or oleaginous fruits that primarily store triacylglycerols and serve a storage function. However, similar hydrophobic particles are found in cells of plant tissues that package terpenoids, sterol esters, wax esters, or other types of nonpolar lipids. The various hydrophobic lipids inside LDs are coated with a phospholipid monolayer, mostly derived from membrane phospholipids during their ontogeny. Various proteins have been identified to be associated with LDs, and these may be cell-type, tissue-type, or even species specific. While major LD proteins like oleosins have been known for decades, more recently a growing list of LD proteins has been identified, primarily by proteomics analyses of isolated LDs and confirmation of their localization by confocal microscopy. LDs, unlike other organelles, have a density less than that of water, and consequently can be isolated and enriched in cellular fractions by flotation centrifugation for composition studies. However, due to its deep coverage, modern proteomics approaches are also prone to identify contaminants, making control experiments necessary. Here, procedures for the isolation of LDs, and analysis of LD components are provided as well as methods to validate the LD localization of proteins.
The plant lipidome is highly complex and changes dynamically under the influence of various biotic and abiotic stresses. Targeted analyses based on mass spectrometry enable the detection and characterization of the plant lipidome. It can be analyzed in plant tissues of different developmental stages and from isolated cellular organelles and membranes. Here, we describe a sensitive method to establish the relative abundance of molecular lipid species belonging to three lipid categories: glycerolipids, sphingolipids, and sterol lipids. The method is based on a monophasic lipid extraction and includes the derivatization of a few rare and low-abundant lipid classes. The molecular lipid species are resolved by lipid class-specific reverse-phase liquid chromatography and detected by nanoelectrospray ionization coupled with tandem mass spectrometry. The triple quadrupole analyzer is used for detection with multiple reaction monitoring (MRM). Mass transition lists are constructed based on the knowledge of organism-specific lipid building blocks. They are initially determined by classical lipid analytical methods and then used for combinative assembly of all possible lipid structures. The targeted analysis enables detailed and comprehensive profiling of the entire lipid content and composition of plants.
Recently, it was shown that highly effective anti-CD20 therapies used for MS patients not only deplete CD20+ B cells, but also a small subset of T cells expressing CD20 surface marker (CD3+CD20+ T cells). Here we demonstrated that, in progressive MS patients, CD3+CD20+ T cells share the ability to express cytotoxic factors such as perforin and serine-protease granzyme-B (GzmB), classically associated with CD8+ T cells functionality. Beyond it, cluster analyses show that a set of activation markers and transcriptional factors related with CD8 effector program are also expressed in CD3+CD20+ T cells. Further characterization of surface and functional markers from CD3+CD20+ T subsets may be helpful for development of new therapeutic strategies mainly for progressive MS patients, as well as for assessing pathophysiological effects of highly effective anti-CD20 therapies.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease with no therapeutic consensus. Oxidation and inflammation are hallmarks in the progression of this complex disease, which also involves interactions between the genetic background and the environment. Mastiha is a natural nutritional supplement known to possess antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. This study investigated how a 6-month Mastiha supplementation (2.1 g/day) could impact the antioxidant and inflammatory status of patients with NAFLD, and whether genetic variants significantly mediate these effects. We recruited 98 patients with obesity (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2) and NAFLD and randomly allocated them to either the Mastiha or the placebo group for 6 months. The anti-oxidative and inflammatory status was assessed at baseline and post-treatment. Genome-wide genetic data was also obtained from all participants, to investigate gene-by-Mastiha interactions. NAFLD patients with severe obesity (BMI > 35kg/m2) taking the Mastiha had significantly higher total antioxidant status (TAS) compared to the corresponding placebo group (P value=0.008). We did not observe any other significant change in the investigated biomarkers as a result of Mastiha supplementation alone. We identified several novel gene-by-Mastiha interaction associations with levels of cytokines and antioxidant biomarkers. Some of the identified genetic loci are implicated in the pathological pathways of NAFLD, including the lanosterol synthase gene (LSS) associated with glutathione peroxidase activity (Gpx) levels, the mitochondrial pyruvate carrier-1 gene (MPC1) and the sphingolipid transporter-1 gene (SPNS1) associated with hemoglobin levels, the transforming growth factor-beta-induced gene (TGFBI) and the micro-RNA 129-1 (MIR129-1) associated with IL-6 and the granzyme B gene (GZMB) associated with IL-10 levels. Within the MAST4HEALTH randomized clinical trial (NCT03135873, www.clinicaltrials.gov) Mastiha supplementation improved the TAS levels among NAFLD patients with severe obesity. We identified several novel genome-wide significant nutrigenetic interactions, influencing the antioxidant and inflammatory status in NAFLD.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, identifier NCT03135873.
Hypoxia, angiogenesis, and immunosuppression have been proposed to be interrelated events that fuel tumor progression and impair the clinical effectiveness of anti-tumor therapies. Here we present new mechanistic data highlighting the role of hypoxia in fine-tuning CD8 T cell exhaustion in vitro, in an attempt to reconcile seemingly opposite evidence regarding the impact of hypoxia on functional features of exhausted CD8 T cells. Focusing on the recently characterized terminally-differentiated and progenitor exhausted CD8 T cells, we found that both hypoxia and its regulated mediator, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A, promote the differentiation of PD-1+ TIM-3+ CXCR5+ terminally exhausted-like CD8 T cells at the expense of PD-1+ TIM-3- progenitor-like subsets without affecting tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interferon (IFN)-γ production or granzyme B (GZMB) expression by these subpopulations. Interestingly, hypoxia accentuated the proangiogenic secretory profile in exhausted CD8 T cells. VEGF-A was the main factor differentially secreted by exhausted CD8 T cells under hypoxic conditions. In this sense, we found that VEGF-A contributes to generation of terminally exhausted CD8 T cells during in vitro differentiation. Altogether, our findings highlight the reciprocal regulation between hypoxia, angiogenesis, and immunosuppression, providing a rational basis to optimize synergistic combinations of antiangiogenic and immunotherapeutic strategies, with the overarching goal of improving the efficacy of these treatments.
TrmB belongs to the class I S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-dependent methyltransferases (MTases) and introduces a methyl group to guanine at position 7 (m7G) in tRNA. In tRNAs m7G is most frequently found at position 46 in the variable loop and forms a tertiary base pair with C13 and U22, introducing a positive charge at G46. The TrmB/Trm8 enzyme family is structurally diverse, as TrmB proteins exist in a monomeric, homodimeric, and heterodimeric form. So far, the exact enzymatic mechanism, as well as the tRNA-TrmB crystal structure is not known. Here we present the first crystal structures of B. subtilis TrmB in complex with SAM and SAH. The crystal structures of TrmB apo and in complex with SAM and SAH have been determined by X-ray crystallography to 1.9 Å (apo), 2.5 Å (SAM), and 3.1 Å (SAH). The obtained crystal structures revealed Tyr193 to be important during SAM binding and MTase activity. Applying fluorescence polarization, the dissociation constant Kd of TrmB and tRNAPhe was determined to be 0.12 µM ± 0.002 µM. Luminescence-based methyltransferase activity assays revealed cooperative effects during TrmB catalysis with half-of-the-site reactivity at physiological SAM concentrations. Structural data retrieved from small-angle x-ray scattering (SAXS), mass-spectrometry of cross-linked complexes, and molecular docking experiments led to the determination of the TrmB-tRNAPhe complex structure.
INTRODUCTION: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common primary adult brain tumour with a median overall survival (OS) of 12-15 months. Molecular characterization of multiple immunooncology targets in GBM may help target novel immunotherapeutic strategies. We used NanoString GeoMx® Digital Spatial Profiling (DSP) to assess multiple immunooncology protein targets in methylated versus unmethylated IDH-wild-type glioblastoma.METHODS: NanoString GeoMx® DSP technology uses multiple primary antibodies conjugated to indexing DNA oligos with a UV photocleavable linker. Tissue regions of interest (ROIs) are selected with bound fluorescent antibodies; oligos are released via a UV-mediated linker and quantitated. We used DSP multiplex analysis of 31 immunooncology proteins and controls (CD4, CD14, CD68, CD8A, B7-H3, PD-L1, CD19, FOXP3, CD44, STAT3 (phospho Y705), CD45, Pan Cytokeratin, MS4A1/CD20, CD45RO, PD1, CD3, beta-2 microglobulin, VISTA, Bcl2, GZMB, PTEN, beta-catenin, CD56, Ki-67, STAT3, AKT, p-Akt, S6, Histone H3, IgG Rabbit control, and Mouse IgG control) from ROIs in a cohort of 10 IDH-wild-type glioblastomas (5 methylated and 5 unmethylated). An nCounter platform allowed quantitative comparisons of antibodies between ROIs in MGMT methylated and unmethylated tumours. Mean protein expression counts between methylated and unmethylated GBM were compared using technical and biological replicates.RESULTS: The analysis showed 10/27 immunooncology target proteins were significantly increased in methylated versus unmethylated IDH-wild-type glioblastoma tumour core (false discovery rate (FDR) <0.1 by Benjamini-Hochberg procedure).CONCLUSIONS: NanoString GeoMx® DSP was used to analyse multiple immunooncology protein target expression in methylated versus unmethylated IDH-wild-type glioblastoma. In this small study, there was a statistical increase in CD4, CD14, CD68, CD8A, B7-H3, PDL-1, CD19, FOXP3, CD44, and STAT3 protein expression in methylated versus unmethylated GBM tumour core; however, this requires larger cohort validation. Advanced multiplex immunooncological biomarker analysis may be useful in identifying biomarkers for novel immunotherapeutic agents in GBMs.
To probe the function of miR-518a-5p/Granzyme B (GZMB) in hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) -induced vascular endothelial cell injury.The key genes of myocardial infarction were screened by bioinformatic methods. The upstream micro RNAs (miRNAs) of GZMB were predicted by TargetScan. The binding of miR-518a-5p to GZMB was verified with luciferase reporter assay. The H/R model was constructed with human vascular endothelial cell (HUVEC) in vitro. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8) assay was performed to detect cell proliferation. Western blot was utilized to evaluate the levels of indicated proteins.GZMB was up-regulated in patients with myocardial infarction and identified as the key gene by the bioinformatics analysis. Then the prediction from TargetScan indicated that miR-518a-5p, which is down-regulated in myocardial infarction patients, might be the potential upstream miRNA for GZMB. The following experiments verified that miR-518a-5p could bind to the 3'UTR of GZMB and negatively modulates GZMB expression. More importantly, the miR-518a-5p mimic enhanced cell proliferation and repressed apoptosis of H/R-injured HUVEC cells by inhibiting GZMB expression.We proved that miR-518a-5p could partly attenuate H/R-induced HUVEC cell injury by targeting GZMB, and perhaps the miR-518a-5p/GZMB axis could be potential therapeutic targets for myocardial infarction.
Inflammation is a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Chronic pro-inflammatory responses contribute to the loss of neurons in the neurodegenerative process. The present study was undertaken to define the peripheral innate and adaptive immune contributions to inflammation in patients with PD. Immunophenotyping revealed a shift of peripheral myeloid and lymphoid cells towards a pro-inflammatory phenotype. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) were reduced in number, and their suppression of T responder proliferation decreased. The PD Tregs did not suppress activated pro-inflammatory myeloid cells. Ex vivo expansion of Tregs from patients with PD restored and enhanced their suppressive functions while expanded Tregs displayed increased expression of foxp3, il2ra (CD25), nt5e (CD73), il10, il13, ctla4, pdcd1 (PD1), and gzmb. Collectively, these findings documented a shift towards a pro-inflammatory peripheral immune response in patients with PD; the loss of Treg suppressive functions may contribute significantly to this response, supporting PD as a disorder with extensive systemic pro-inflammatory responses. The restoration and enhancement of Treg suppressive functions following ex vivo expansion may provide a potential cell therapeutic approach for patients with PD.
To identify immunologic correlates of hepatitis C virus (HCV) relapse after direct-acting antiviral (DAA) therapy, we quantified select immune transcripts in whole blood from noncirrhotic HCV subjects treated with 4-6 weeks of DAAs. We identified specific markers of natural killer-cell and CD8+ T-cell function (GZMB, PRF1, NKp46) with higher expression in subjects who relapsed. These findings suggest a role for host immunity in HCV eradication with ultrashort DAA therapy. We quantified whole blood immune transcripts in noncirrhotic HCV subjects treated with shortcourse antiviral therapy. Markers of natural killer-cell and CD8+ T-cell function had higher expression in virologic relapsers, suggesting a role for host immunity in HCV eradication.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. The tumor immune microenvironment (TME) in NSCLC is closely correlated to tumor initiation, progression, and prognosis. TME failure impedes the generation of an effective antitumor immune response. In this study, we attempted to explore TME and identify a potential biomarker for NSCLC immunotherapy. 48 potential immune-related genes were identified from 11 eligible Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) data sets. We applied the CIBERSORT computational approach to quantify bulk gene expression profiles and thereby infer the proportions of 22 subsets of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TICs); 16 kinds of TICs showed differential distributions between the tumor and control tissue samples. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to determine the correlation between TICs and 48 potential immune-related genes. Nine differential immune-related genes showed statistical significance. We analyzed the influence of nine differential immune-related genes on NSCLC immunotherapy, and OLR1 exhibited the strongest correlation with four well-recognized biomarkers (PD-L1, CD8A, GZMB, and NOS2) of immunotherapy. Differential expression of OLR1 showed its considerable potential to divide TICs distribution, as determined by non-linear dimensionality reduction analysis. In immunotherapy prediction analysis with the comparatively reliable tool TIDE, patients with higher OLR1 expression were predicted to have better immunotherapy outcomes, and OLR1 expression was potentially highly correlated with PD-L1 expression, the average of CD8A and CD8B, IFNG, and Merck18 expression, T cell dysfunction and exclusion potential, and other significant immunotherapy predictors. These findings contribute to the current understanding of TME with immunotherapy. OLR1 also shows potential as a predictor or a regulator in NSCLC immunotherapy.
Immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) combined with neoadjuvant chemotherapy improves pathological complete response in breast cancer. To understand why only a subset of tumors respond to ICB, patients with hormone receptor-positive or triple-negative breast cancer were treated with anti-PD1 before surgery. Paired pre- versus on-treatment biopsies from treatment-naive patients receiving anti-PD1 (n = 29) or patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy before anti-PD1 (n = 11) were subjected to single-cell transcriptome, T cell receptor and proteome profiling. One-third of tumors contained PD1-expressing T cells, which clonally expanded upon anti-PD1 treatment, irrespective of tumor subtype. Expansion mainly involved CD8+ T cells with pronounced expression of cytotoxic-activity (PRF1, GZMB), immune-cell homing (CXCL13) and exhaustion markers (HAVCR2, LAG3), and CD4+ T cells characterized by expression of T-helper-1 (IFNG) and follicular-helper (BCL6, CXCR5) markers. In pre-treatment biopsies, the relative frequency of immunoregulatory dendritic cells (PD-L1+), specific macrophage phenotypes (CCR2+ or MMP9+) and cancer cells exhibiting major histocompatibility complex class I/II expression correlated positively with T cell expansion. Conversely, undifferentiated pre-effector/memory T cells (TCF7+, GZMK+) or inhibitory macrophages (CX3CR1+, C3+) were inversely correlated with T cell expansion. Collectively, our data identify various immunophenotypes and associated gene sets that are positively or negatively correlated with T cell expansion following anti-PD1 treatment. We shed light on the heterogeneity in treatment response to anti-PD1 in breast cancer.
Comment in    doi: 10.1093/plcell/koaa052.
Lipid droplets (LDs) are neutral-lipid-containing organelles found in all kingdoms of life and are coated with proteins that carry out a vast array of functions. Compared to mammals and yeast, relatively few LD proteins have been identified in plants, particularly those associated with LDs in vegetative (non-seed) cell types. Thus, to better understand the cellular roles of LDs in plants, a more comprehensive inventory and characterization of LD proteins is required. Here, we performed a proteomics analysis of LDs isolated from drought-stressed Arabidopsis leaves and identified EARLY RESPONSIVE TO DEHYDRATION 7 (ERD7) as a putative LD protein. mCherry-tagged ERD7 localized to both LDs and the cytosol when ectopically expressed in plant cells, and the protein's C-terminal senescence domain (SD) was both necessary and sufficient for LD targeting. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that ERD7 belongs to a six-member family in Arabidopsis that, along with homologs in other plant species, is separated into two distinct subfamilies. Notably, the SDs of proteins from each subfamily conferred targeting to either LDs or mitochondria. Further, the SD from the ERD7 homolog in humans, spartin, localized to LDs in plant cells, similar to its localization in mammals; although, in mammalian cells, spartin also conditionally localizes to other subcellular compartments, including mitochondria. Disruption of ERD7 gene expression in Arabidopsis revealed no obvious changes in LD numbers or morphology under normal growth conditions, although this does not preclude a role for ERD7 in stress-induced LD dynamics. Consistent with this possibility, a yeast two-hybrid screen using ERD7 as bait identified numerous proteins involved in stress responses, including some that have been identified in other LD proteomes. Collectively, these observations provide new insight to ERD7 and the SD-containing family of proteins in plants and suggest that ERD7 may be involved in functional aspects of plant stress response that also include localization to the LD surface.
Differentiation, growth, and virulence of the vascular plant pathogen Verticillium dahliae depend on a network of interconnected cellular signaling cascades. The transcription factor Hac1 of the endoplasmic reticulum-associated unfolded protein response (UPR) is required for initial root colonization, fungal growth, and vascular propagation by conidiation. Hac1 is essential for the formation of microsclerotia as long-time survival resting structures in the field. Single endoplasmic reticulum-associated enzymes for linoleic acid production as precursors for oxylipin signal molecules support fungal growth but not pathogenicity. Microsclerotia development, growth, and virulence further require the pheromone response mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, but without the Ham5 scaffold function. The MAPK phosphatase Rok1 limits resting structure development of V.dahliae, but promotes growth, conidiation, and virulence. The interplay between UPR and MAPK signaling cascades includes several potential targets for fungal growth control for supporting disease management of the vascular pathogen V.dahliae.
BACKGROUND: Tumors can be separated into immunogenic/hot and non-immunogenic/cold on the basis of the presence of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), the expression of PD-L1 and the tumor mutation burden (TMB). In immunogenic tumors, TILs become unable to control tumor growth because their activity is suppressed by different inhibitory pathways, including PD-1/PD-L1. We hypothesized that tumor vaccines may not be active in the immunosuppressive microenvironment of immunogenic/hot tumors while they could be efficient in the immune naïve microenvironment of non-immunogenic/cold tumors.METHODS: The randomized phase II Vx-001-201 study investigated the effect of the Vx-001 vaccine as maintenance treatment in metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Biopsies from 131 (68 placebo and 63 Vx-001) patients were retrospectively analyzed for PD-L1 expression and TIL infiltration. TILs were measured as tumor-associated immune cells (TAICs), CD3-TILs, CD8-TILs and granzyme B-producing TILs (GZMB-TILs). Patients were distinguished into PD-L1(+) and PD-L1(-) and into TIL high and TIL low.FINDINGS: There was no correlation between PD-L1 expression and Vx-001 clinical activity. In contrast, Vx-001 showed a significant improvement of overall survival (OS) vs. placebo in TAIC low (21 vs. 8.1 months, p = 0.003, HR = 0.404, 95% CI 0.219-0.745), CD3-TIL low (21.6 vs. 6.6 months, p < 0.001, HR = 0.279, 95% CI 0.131-0.595), CD8-TIL low (21 vs. 6.6 months, p < 0.001; HR = 0.240, 95% CI 0.11-0.522) and GZMB-TIL low (20.7 vs. 11.1 months, p = 0.011, HR = 0.490, 95% CI 0.278-0.863). Vx-001 did not offer any clinical benefit in patients with TAIC high, CD3-TIL high, CD8-TIL high or GZMB-TIL high tumors. CD3-TIL, CD8-TIL and GZMB-TIL were independent predictive factors of Vx-001 efficacy.CONCLUSIONS: These results support the hypothesis that Vx-001 may be efficient in patients with non-immunogenic/cold but not with immunogenic/hot tumors.
PURPOSE: Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common malignancies in males. Despite the success of immunotherapy in many malignant cancers, strategies are still needed to improve therapeutic efficacy in PCa. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Akkermansia muciniphila-derived extracellular vesicles (Akk-EVs) on PCa and elucidate the underlying immune-related mechanism.METHODS: Akk-EVs were isolated by ultracentrifugation and intravenously injected to treat syngeneic PCa-bearing immune-competent mice. Immunophenotypic changes in immune cells, such as cytotoxic T lymphocytes and macrophages, were measured via flow cytometry analysis. Histological examination was used to detect morphological changes in major organs after Akk-EVs treatments. In vitro, flow cytometry was performed to confirm the effects of Akk-EVs on the activation of CD8+ T cells. Quantitative PCR and immunofluorescence staining were carried out to test the impact of Akk-EVs on macrophage polarization. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) analysis, colony formation assays, and scratch wound healing assays were conducted to assess the effects of Akk-EVs-treated macrophages on the proliferation and invasion of PCa cells. CCK-8 assays also confirmed the impact of Akk-EVs on the viability of normal cells.RESULTS: Intravenous injection of Akk-EVs in immune-competent mice reduced the tumor burden of PCa without inducing obvious toxicity in normal tissues. This treatment elevated the proportion of granzyme B-positive (GZMB+) and interferon γ-positive (IFN-γ+) lymphocytes in CD8+ T cells and caused macrophage recruitment, with increased tumor-killing M1 macrophages and decreased immunosuppressive M2 macrophages. In vitro, Akk-EVs increased the number of GZMB+CD8+ and IFN-γ+CD8+ T cells and M1-like macrophages. In addition, conditioned medium from Akk-EVs-treated macrophages suppressed the proliferation and invasion of prostate cells. Furthermore, the effective dose of Akk-EVs was well-tolerated in normal cells.CONCLUSION: Our study revealed the promising prospects of Akk-EVs as an efficient and biocompatible immunotherapeutic agent for PCa treatment.
The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) affected over 120 million people and killed over 2.7 million individuals by March 2021. While acute and intermediate interactions between SARS-CoV-2 and the immune system have been studied extensively, long-term impacts on the cellular immune system remain to be analyzed. Here, we comprehensively characterized immunological changes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in 49 COVID-19-convalescent individuals (CI) in comparison to 27 matched SARS-CoV-2-unexposed individuals (UI). Despite recovery from the disease for more than 2 months, CI showed significant decreases in frequencies of invariant NKT and NKT-like cells compared to UI. Concomitant with the decrease in NKT-like cells, an increase in the percentage of annexin V and 7-aminoactinomycin D (7-AAD) double-positive NKT-like cells was detected, suggesting that the reduction in NKT-like cells results from cell death months after recovery. Significant increases in regulatory T cell frequencies and TIM-3 expression on CD4 and CD8 T cells were also observed in CI, while the cytotoxic potential of T cells and NKT-like cells, defined by granzyme B (GzmB) expression, was significantly diminished. However, both CD4 and CD8 T cells of CI showed increased Ki67 expression and were fully able to proliferate and produce effector cytokines upon T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation. Collectively, we provide a comprehensive characterization of immune signatures in patients recovering from SARS-CoV-2 infection, suggesting that the cellular immune system of COVID-19 patients is still under a sustained influence even months after the recovery from disease.IMPORTANCE Wuhan was the very first city hit by SARS-CoV-2. Accordingly, the patients who experienced the longest phase of convalescence following COVID-19 reside here. This enabled us to investigate the "immunological scar" left by SARS-CoV-2 on cellular immunity after recovery from the disease. In this study, we characterized the long-term impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on the immune system and provide a comprehensive picture of cellular immunity of a convalescent COVID-19 patient cohort with the longest recovery time. We revealed that the cellular immune system of COVID-19 patients is still under a sustained influence even months after the recovery from disease; in particular, a profound NKT cell impairment was found in the convalescent phase of COVID-19.
Plants secrete purple acid phosphatases (PAPs) under phosphorus (P) shortage but the contribution of plant PAPs to P acquisition is not well understood. The goals of this study were to investigate comprehensively the transcription patterns of PAPs under P shortage in poplar (Populus × canescens), to identify secreted PAPs and to characterize their contribution to mobilize organic P. Phylogenetic analyses of the PAP family revealed 33 putative members. In this study, distinct, tissue-specific P responsive expression patterns could be shown for 23 PAPs in roots and leaves. Root-associated PAP activities were localized on the root surface by in-vivo staining. The activities of root-surface PAPs increased significantly under low P availability, but were suppressed by a PAP inhibitor and corresponded to elevated P uptake from ATP as an organic P source. By proteomic analyses of the root apoplast, we identified three newly secreted proteins under P shortage: PtPAP1 (Potri.005G233400) and two proteins with unknown functions (Potri.013G100800 and Potri.001G209300). Our results, based on the combination of transcriptome and proteome analyses with phosphatase activity assays, support that PtPAP1 plays a central role in enhanced P acquisition from organic sources, when the phosphate concentrations in soil are limited.
BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most frequently diagnosed malignancies. Metastasis is the main event that impedes the therapeutic effect on CRC, and its underlying mechanisms remain largely unclear. LINC02474 is a novel long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) associated with metastasis of CRC, while little is known about how LINC02474 regulates these malignant characteristics.METHODS: Expressions of LINC02474 and granzyme B (GZMB) were assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) or Western blotting analysis. Cell metastasis was detected by transwell assay and metastatic nude mouse model, and apoptosis was determined by Western blotting analysis and flow cytometry. Besides, the interaction between LINC02474 and GZMB was detected by dual-luciferase reporter assays.RESULTS: The expression of LINC02474 was significantly up-regulated in CRC tissues. Moreover, depletion of LINC02474 damaged the metastatic abilities of CRC cells in vivo and in vitro while boosting apoptosis. Besides, up-regulation of LINC02474 could promote migration and invasion, while apoptosis was inhibited in CRC cells. Besides, down-regulation of LINC02474 promoted the expression of GZMB, and interference of GZMB could increase the metastatic abilities of CRC cells while reducing apoptosis. Furthermore, LINC02474 was related to the transcriptional repression of GZMB in CRC cells determined by the dual-luciferase reporter assay.CONCLUSIONS: The findings revealed that a novel lncRNA, LINC02474, as an oncogene, could promote metastasis, but limit apoptosis partly by impeding GZMB expression in CRC. Besides, LINC02474 had the potential to be used as a biomarker in the prognosis of CRC.
Single-cell RNA-seq has become a powerful tool to understand tumor cell heterogenicity. This study tried to screen prognosis-related genes in basal-like breast tumors and evaluate their correlations with cellular states at the single-cell level.Bulk RNA-seq data of basal-like tumor cases from The Cancer Genome Atlas-Breast Cancer (TCGA-BRCA) and single-cell RNA-seq from GSE75688 were retrospectively reviewed. Kaplan-Meier survival curves, univariate and multivariate analysis based on Cox regression model were conducted for survival analysis. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and single-cell cellular functional state analysis were performed.Twenty thousand five hundred thirty genes with bulk RNA-seq data in TCGA were subjected to screening. Preliminary screening identified 10 candidate progression-related genes, including CDH19, AQP5, SDR16C5, NCAN, TTYH1, XAGE2, RIMS2, GZMB, LY6D, and FAM3B. By checking their profiles using single-cell RNA-seq data, only CDH19, SDR16C5, TTYH1, and RIMS2 had expression in primary triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells. Prognostic analysis only confirmed that RIMS2 expression was an independent prognostic indicator of favorable progression free survival (PFS) (HR: 0.78, 95%: 0.64-0.95, P  = .015). GSEA analysis showed that low RIMS2 group expression had genes significantly enriched in DNA Repair, and MYC Targets V2. Among the 89 basal-like cells, RIMS2 expression was negatively correlated with DNA repair and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT).RIMS2 expression was negatively associated with DNA repair capability of basal-like breast tumor cells and might serve as an independent indicator of favorable PFS.
Currently, a significant proportion of cancer patients do not benefit from programmed cell death-1 (PD-1)-targeted therapy. Overcoming drug resistance remains a challenge. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing and bulk RNA sequencing data from samples collected before and after anti-PD-1 therapy were analyzed. Cell-cell interaction analyses were performed to determine the differences between pretreatment responders and nonresponders and the relative differences in changes from pretreatment to posttreatment status between responders and nonresponders to ultimately investigate the specific mechanisms underlying response and resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy. Bulk-RNA sequencing data were used to validate our results. Furthermore, we analyzed the evolutionary trajectory of ligands/receptors in specific cell types in responders and nonresponders. Based on pretreatment data from responders and nonresponders, we identified several different cell-cell interactions, like WNT5A-PTPRK, EGFR-AREG, AXL-GAS6 and ACKR3-CXCL12. Furthermore, relative differences in the changes from pretreatment to posttreatment status between responders and nonresponders existed in SELE-PSGL-1, CXCR3-CCL19, CCL4-SLC7A1, CXCL12-CXCR3, EGFR-AREG, THBS1-a3b1 complex, TNF-TNFRSF1A, TNF-FAS and TNFSF10-TNFRSF10D interactions. In trajectory analyses of tumor-specific exhausted CD8 T cells using ligand/receptor genes, we identified a cluster of T cells that presented a distinct pattern of ligand/receptor expression. They highly expressed suppressive genes like HAVCR2 and KLRC1, cytotoxic genes like GZMB and FASLG and the tissue-residence-related gene CCL5. These cells had increased expression of survival-related and tissue-residence-related genes, like heat shock protein genes and the interleukin-7 receptor (IL-7R), CACYBP and IFITM3 genes, after anti-PD-1 therapy. These results reveal the mechanisms underlying anti-PD-1 therapy response and offer abundant clues for potential strategies to improve immunotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) infiltration into tumor is a positive prognostic factor in breast cancer. High tumor mutational burden (TMB) is also considered as a predictor of tumor immunogenicity and response to immunotherapy. However, it is unclear whether the infiltration of functional CTL simply reflects the TMB or represents an independent prognostic value.METHODS: Utilizing The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) breast cancer cohort, we established the Functional Hotness Score (FHS). The associations of FHS and breast cancer patient prognosis as well as distinct immunity markers were analyzed in a total of 3011 breast cancer patients using TCGA, METABRIC and metastatic breast cancer (MBC) cohort GSE110590.RESULTS: We established FHS, based on CD8A, GZMB and CXCL10 gene expression levels of bulk tumors, which delivered the best prognostic value among some gene combinations. Breast cancer patients with the high-FHS tumors showed significantly better survival. FHS was lower in the MBCs. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) showed the highest FHS among subtypes. FHS predicted patient survival in hormone receptor (HR)-negative, especially in TNBC, but not in HR-positive breast cancer. FHS predicted patient prognosis independently in TNBC. The high-FHS TNBCs showed not only higher CD8+ T cell infiltration, but also enhanced broader type-1 anti-cancer immunity. The patients with the high-FHS tumors showed better prognosis not only in high-TMB tumors but also in low-TMB TNBCs. The combination of high-TMB with high-FHS identified a unique subset of patients who do not recur over time in TNBC.CONCLUSION: TNBCs with high FHS based on the expression levels of CD8A, GZMB and CXCL10 showed improved prognosis with enhanced anti-cancer immunity regardless of TMB. FHS constitutes an independent prognostic marker of survival, particularly robustly when combined with TMB in TNBC.
Sepsis is a complex syndrome related to an infection-induced exaggerated inflammatory response, which is associated with a high mortality. Granzymes (Gzm) are proteases mainly found in cytotoxic lymphocytes that not only have a role in target cell death, but also as mediators of infection and inflammation. In this study we sought to analyse the intracellular expression of GzmA, B, M and K by flow cytometry in diverse blood lymphocyte populations from 22 sepsis patients, 12 non-infected intensive care unit (ICU) patients and 32 healthy controls. Additionally, we measured GzmA and B plasma levels. Both groups of patients presented decreased percentage of natural killer (NK) cells expressing GzmA, B and M relative to healthy controls, while sepsis patients showed an increased proportion of CD8+ T cells expressing GzmB compared to controls. Expression of GzmK remained relatively unaltered between groups. Extracellular levels of GzmB were increased in non-infected ICU patients relative to sepsis patients and healthy controls. Our results show differential alterations in intracellular expression of Gzm in sepsis patients and non-infected critically ill patients compared to healthy individuals depending on the lymphocyte population and on the Gzm.
BACKGROUND: Sepsis and septic shock are life-threatening diseases with high mortality rate in intensive care unit (ICU). Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common complication of sepsis, and its occurrence is a poor prognostic sign to septic patients. We analyzed co-differentially expressed genes (co-DEGs) to explore relationships between septic shock and AKI and reveal potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets of septic-shock-associated AKI (SSAKI).METHODS: Two gene expression datasets (GSE30718 and GSE57065) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). The GSE57065 dataset included 28 septic shock patients and 25 healthy volunteers and blood samples were collected within 0.5, 24 and 48 h after shock. Specimens of GSE30718 were collected from 26 patients with AKI and 11 control patents. AKI-DEGs and septic-shock-DEGs were identified using the two datasets. Subsequently, Gene Ontology (GO) functional analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis were performed to elucidate molecular mechanisms of DEGs. We also evaluated co-DEGs and corresponding predicted miRNAs involved in septic shock and AKI.RESULTS: We identified 62 DEGs in AKI specimens and 888, 870, and 717 DEGs in septic shock blood samples within 0.5, 24 and 48 h, respectively. The hub genes of EGF and OLFM4 may be involved in AKI and QPCT, CKAP4, PRKCQ, PLAC8, PRC1, BCL9L, ATP11B, KLHL2, LDLRAP1, NDUFAF1, IFIT2, CSF1R, HGF, NRN1, GZMB, and STAT4 may be associated with septic shock. Besides, co-DEGs of VMP1, SLPI, PTX3, TIMP1, OLFM4, LCN2, and S100A9 coupled with corresponding predicted miRNAs, especially miR-29b-3p, miR-152-3p, and miR-223-3p may be regarded as promising targets for the diagnosis and treatment of SSAKI in the future.CONCLUSIONS: Septic shock and AKI are related and VMP1, SLPI, PTX3, TIMP1, OLFM4, LCN2, and S100A9 genes are significantly associated with novel biomarkers involved in the occurrence and development of SSAKI.
Fused in sarcoma (FUS) is a predominantly nuclear RNA-binding protein with key functions in RNA processing and DNA damage repair. Defects in nuclear import of FUS have been linked to severe neurodegenerative diseases; hence, it is of great interest to understand this process and how it is dysregulated in disease. Transportin-1 (TNPO1) and the closely related transportin-2 have been identified as major nuclear import receptors of FUS. They bind to the C-terminal nuclear localization signal of FUS and mediate the protein's nuclear import and at the same time also suppress aberrant phase transitions of FUS in the cytoplasm. Whether FUS can utilize other nuclear transport receptors for the purpose of import and chaperoning has not been examined so far. Here, we show that FUS directly binds to different import receptors in vitro. FUS formed stable complexes not only with TNPO1 but also with transportin-3, importin β, importin 7, or the importin β/7 heterodimer. Binding of these alternative import receptors required arginine residues within FUS-RG/RGG motifs and was weakened by arginine methylation. Interaction with these importins suppressed FUS phase separation and reduced its sequestration into stress granules. In a permeabilized cell system, we further showed that transportin-3 had the capacity to import FUS into the nucleus, albeit with lower efficiency than TNPO1. Our data suggest that aggregation-prone RNA-binding proteins such as FUS may utilize a network of importins for chaperoning and import, similar to histones and ribosomal proteins.
BACKGROUND: Cholangiocarcinoma was a highly malignant liver cancer with poor prognosis, and immune infiltration status was considered an important factor in response to immunotherapy. In this investigation, we tried to locate immune infiltration related genes of cholangiocarcinoma through combination of bulk-sequencing and single-cell sequencing technology.METHODS: Single sample gene set enrichment analysis was used to annotate immune infiltration status in datasets of TCGA CHOL, GSE32225, and GSE26566. Differentially expressed genes between high- and low-infiltrated groups in TCGA dataset were yielded and further compressed in other two datasets through backward stepwise regression in R environment. Single-cell sequencing data of GSE138709 was loaded by Seurat software and was used to examined the expression of infiltration-related gene set. Pathway changes in malignant cell populations were analyzed through scTPA web tool.RESULTS: There were 43 genes differentially expressed between high- and low-immune infiltrated patients, and after further compression, PNOC and LAIR2 were significantly correlated with high immune infiltration status in cholangiocarcinoma. Through analysis of single-cell sequencing data, PNOC was mainly expressed by infiltrated B cells in tumor microenvironment, while LAIR2 was expressed by Treg cells and partial GZMB+ CD8 T cells, which were survival related and increased in tumor tissues. High B cell infiltration levels were related to better overall survival. Also, malignant cell populations demonstrated functionally different roles in tumor progression.CONCLUSION: PNOC and LAIR2 were biomarkers for immune infiltration evaluation in cholangiocarcinoma. PNOC, expressed by B cells, could predict better survival of patients, while LAIR2 was a potential marker for exhaustive T cell populations, correlating with worse survival of patients.
Mitochondria play a key role in cellular signalling, metabolism and energetics. Proper architecture and remodelling of the inner mitochondrial membrane are essential for efficient respiration, apoptosis and quality control in the cell. Several protein complexes including mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system (MICOS), F1 FO -ATP synthase, and Optic Atrophy 1 (OPA1), facilitate formation, maintenance and stability of cristae membranes. MICOS, the F1 FO -ATP synthase, OPA1 and inner membrane phospholipids such as cardiolipin and phosphatidylethanolamine interact with each other to organize the inner membrane ultra-structure and remodel cristae in response to the cell's demands. Functional alterations in these proteins or in the biosynthesis pathway of cardiolipin and phosphatidylethanolamine result in an aberrant inner membrane architecture and impair mitochondrial function. Mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormalities hallmark several human conditions and diseases including neurodegeneration, cardiomyopathies and diabetes mellitus. Yet, they have long been regarded as secondary pathological effects. This review discusses emerging evidence of a direct relationship between protein- and lipid-dependent regulation of the inner mitochondrial membrane morphology and diseases such as fatal encephalopathy, Leigh syndrome, Parkinson's disease, and cancer.
Multiple sclerosis (MS), a putative autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS), commonly presents as relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS), characterized by recurrent episodes of peripheral disabling symptoms resulting from inflammatory CNS damage. Many RRMS patients transition to a chronic disease course with progressive neurological dysfunctions (secondary progressive MS, SPMS), with the progression rate varying between patients and over time. SPMS pathogenesis is now linked to immune-cell-mediated processes, although the mechanisms driving SPMS transition and progression remain elusive, and SPMS lacks biomarkers and effective treatments. We report the crucial involvement of cytotoxic CD4+ T cells expressing Eomes (Eomes+ Th cells) in SPMS pathogenesis-a Th cell subset previously identified in a mouse model of late/chronic autoimmune CNS inflammation. Few Eomes+ Th cells circulate in RRMS patient peripheral blood (n = 44), primary progressive MS (PPMS) patients (n = 25), or healthy controls (n = 42), but Eomes+ Th cells were significantly increased in SPMS (n = 105, P < 0.0001). Strikingly, lymphocytes isolated from SPMS autopsy brain samples revealed CD4+ T cells infiltrating CNS that coexpressed Eomes and the cytotoxic molecule granzyme B. In particular, the Eomes+ Th cell levels were increased in SPMS patients in progressive disease phases versus SPMS patients without current disability increases (P < 0.0001). Moreover, Eomes level acted as a biomarker to predict SPMS patients at risk of disease worsening with over 80% accuracy (ROC-AUC = 0.8276). Overall, our results indicate that granzyme B-expressing Eomes+ T helper cells are involved in the pathogenesis of SPMS, with significant implications for SPMS biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
Noncoding intron sequences present in precursor mRNAs need to be removed prior to translation, and they are excised via the spliceosome, a multimegadalton molecular machine composed of numerous protein and RNA components. The DEAH-box ATPase Prp2 plays a crucial role during pre-mRNA splicing as it ensures the catalytic activation of the spliceosome. Despite high structural similarity to other spliceosomal DEAH-box helicases, Prp2 does not seem to function as an RNA helicase, but rather as an RNA-dependent ribonucleoprotein particle-modifying ATPase. Recent crystal structures of the spliceosomal DEAH-box ATPases Prp43 and Prp22, as well as of the related RNA helicase MLE, in complex with RNA have contributed to a better understanding of how RNA binding and processivity might be achieved in this helicase family. In order to shed light onto the divergent manner of function of Prp2, an N-terminally truncated construct of Chaetomium thermophilum Prp2 was crystallized in the presence of ADP-BeF3- and a poly-U12 RNA. The refined structure revealed a virtually identical conformation of the helicase core compared with the ADP-BeF3-- and RNA-bound structure of Prp43, and only a minor shift of the C-terminal domains. However, Prp2 and Prp43 differ in the hook-loop and a loop of the helix-bundle domain, which interacts with the hook-loop and evokes a different RNA conformation immediately after the 3' stack. On replacing these loop residues in Prp43 by the Prp2 sequence, the unwinding activity of Prp43 was abolished. Furthermore, a putative exit tunnel for the γ-phosphate after ATP hydrolysis could be identified in one of the Prp2 structures.
BANK1 transcript is upregulated in whole blood after kidney transplantation in tolerant patients. In comparison to patients with rejection, tolerant patients display higher level of regulatory B cells (Bregs) expressing granzyme B (GZMB+) that have the capability to prevent effector T cells proliferation. However, BANK1 was found to be decreased in these GZMB+ Bregs. In this article, we investigated seven different transcriptomic studies and mined the literature in order to make link between BANK1, tolerance and Bregs. As for GZMB+ Bregs, we found that BANK1 was decreased in other subtypes of Bregs, including IL10+ and CD24hiCD38hi transitional regulatory B cells, along with BANK1 was down-regulated in activated/differentiated B cells, as in CD40-activated B cells, in leukemia and plasma cells. Following a reductionist approach, biological concepts were extracted from BANK1 literature and allowed us to infer association between BANK1 and immune signaling pathways, as STAT1, FcγRIIB, TNFAIP3, TRAF6, and TLR7. Based on B cell signaling literature and expression data, we proposed a role of BANK1 in B cells of tolerant patients that involved BCR, IP3R, and PLCG2, and a link with the apoptosis pathways. We confronted these data with our experiments on apoptosis in total B cells and Bregs, and this suggests different involvement for BANK1 in these two cells. Finally, we put in perspective our own data with other published data to hypothesize two different roles for BANK1 in B cells and in Bregs.
Human macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is an atypical chemokine implicated in intercellular signaling and innate immunity. MIF orthologs (MIF/D-DT-like proteins, MDLs) are present throughout the plant kingdom, but remain experimentally unexplored in these organisms. Here, we provide an in planta characterization and functional analysis of the three-member gene/protein MDL family in Arabidopsis thaliana. Subcellular localization experiments indicated a nucleo-cytoplasmic distribution of MDL1 and MDL2, while MDL3 is localized to peroxisomes. Protein-protein interaction assays revealed the in vivo formation of MDL1, MDL2, and MDL3 homo-oligomers, as well as the formation of MDL1-MDL2 hetero-oligomers. Functionally, Arabidopsismdl mutants exhibited a delayed transition from vegetative to reproductive growth (flowering) under long-day conditions, but not in a short-day environment. In addition, mdl mutants were more resistant to colonization by the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. maculicola. The latter phenotype was compromised by the additional mutation of SALICYLIC ACID INDUCTION DEFICIENT 2 (SID2), a gene implicated in the defense-induced biosynthesis of the key signaling molecule salicylic acid. However, the enhanced antibacterial immunity was not associated with any constitutive or pathogen-induced alterations in the levels of characteristic phytohormones or defense-associated metabolites. Interestingly, bacterial infection triggered relocalization and accumulation of MDL1 and MDL2 at the peripheral lobes of leaf epidermal cells. Collectively, our data indicate redundant functionality and a complex interplay between the three chemokine-like Arabidopsis MDL proteins in the regulation of both developmental and immune-related processes. These insights expand the comparative cross-kingdom analysis of MIF/MDL signaling in human and plant systems.
The chemokine ligand C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CXCL11) is involved in the progression of various cancers, but its biological roles in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain confused. Therefore, the prognostic value and underlying mechanism of CXCL11 in CRC were preliminarily evaluated. Three independent datasets were used for mRNA-related analysis: one dataset from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA, n = 451) and two single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO): GSE146771 and GSE132465. In addition, a colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) patient cohort (the Yijishan Hospital cohort, YJSHC, n = 108) was utilized for analysis of cell infiltration by immunohistochemistry. We determined the distribution of CXCL11 in tumor tissue across all TCGA cancers and found that CXCL11 expression was significantly upregulated in both COAD and rectal adenocarcinoma (READ). However, the upregulation of CXCL11 mRNA was associated with a better prognosis in COAD, but not in READ. Within the YJSHC, the patients with a high abundance of intratumoral CXCL11+ cells had prolonged survival (p = 0.001). Furthermore, we found that the high CXCL11 expression group had a higher proportion of antitumor immune cells, and a lower proportion of protumor immune cells. Additionally, we discovered the changes of gene expression and enriched immune pathway network mediated by CXCL11. Interestingly, both cytotoxic genes (IFNG, GZMA, GZMB, GZMK, GZMM, and PRF1) and immunosuppressive molecules, including PD-L1, were positively correlated with CXCL11 expression. CXCL11, which promoted antitumor immunity to benefit survival, was identified as an independent prognostic biomarker in patients with COAD.
BACKGROUND: Anti-programmed death (PD)-1 therapy has recently been used in recurrent or metastatic (R/M) nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). The long-term survival and its biomarkers responding to anti-PD-1 treatment in patients with R/M NPC remain unclear.METHODS: Patients with R/M NPC were enrolled between March 2016 and January 2018 from two phase I clinical trials. The median follow-up period was 24.7 months. Eligible patients progressed on standard chemotherapy had measurable disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor V.1.1. Non-obligatory contemporaneous tumor samples were collected for whole-exome sequencing. The primary outcome was objective response rate (ORR). Duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) were secondary outcomes assessed in all patients.RESULTS: Among 124 evaluable patients, anti-PD-1 therapy achieved an ORR of 29.8% and a durable clinical benefit rate of 60.5%. The median OS (mOS) was 17.1 months (95% CI 14.2 to 24.7), median PFS (mPFS) was 3.8 months (95% CI 3.4 to 6.0), and median DOR was 9.5 months. Significant OS benefit from treatment was observed in patients without liver metastasis (23.8 vs 13.3 months, p=0.006). Copy number deletion in genes encoding granzyme B or granzyme H (GZMB/H) was associated with poor treatment outcome (mPFS altered vs wildtype: 1.7 vs 3.6 months, p=0.03; mOS altered vs wildtype: 10.1 vs 18 months, p=0.012).CONCLUSIONS: Anti-PD-1 treatment provided promising clinical benefit in pretreated patients with R/M NPC. Copy number loss in either GZMB or GZMH genes was associated with reduced survival.
Several studies have reported that tissue-resident memory T cells (TRM cells) or tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) are associated with a good prognosis. The aim of this study was to clarify the association of TRM cells and TLSs in the tumor immune microenvironment in gastric cancer (GC). We performed immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence staining to detect the presence of CD103+ T cells and to assess the association between CD103+ T cells and TLSs. CD103+ T cells were observed in the tumor epithelium accompanied by CD8+ T cells and were associated with a better prognosis in GC. Furthermore, CD103+ T cells were located around TLSs, and patients with CD103high had more rich TLSs. Patients who had both CD103high cells and who were TLS-rich had a better prognosis than patients with CD103low cells and who were TLS-poor. Moreover, for patients who received PD-1 blockade therapy, CD103high and TLS-rich predicted a good response. Flow cytometry was performed to confirm the characteristics of CD103+ CD8+ T cells and showed that CD103+ CD8+ T cells in GC expressed higher levels of PD-1, granzyme B, and interferon-γ than CD103- CD8+ T cells. Our results suggested that CD103+ CD8+ cells in GC are correlated with TLSs, resulting in enhanced antitumor immunity in GC.
The conserved fungal velvet family regulatory proteins link development and secondary metabolite production. The velvet domain for DNA binding and dimerization is similar to the structure of the Rel homology domain of the mammalian NF-κB transcription factor. A comprehensive study addressed the functions of all four homologs of velvet domain encoding genes in the fungal life cycle of the soil-borne plant pathogenic fungus Verticillium dahliae. Genetic, cell biological, proteomic and metabolomic analyses of Vel1, Vel2, Vel3 and Vos1 were combined with plant pathogenicity experiments. Different phases of fungal growth, development and pathogenicity require V. dahliae velvet proteins, including Vel1-Vel2, Vel2-Vos1 and Vel3-Vos1 heterodimers, which are already present during vegetative hyphal growth. The major novel finding of this study is that Vel1 is necessary for initial plant root colonization and together with Vel3 for propagation in planta by conidiation. Vel1 is needed for disease symptom induction in tomato. Vel1, Vel2, and Vel3 control the formation of microsclerotia in senescent plants. Vel1 is the most important among all four V. dahliae velvet proteins with a wide variety of functions during all phases of the fungal life cycle in as well as ex planta.
Sphingolipids are enriched in microdomains in the plant plasma membrane (PM). Hydroxyl groups in the characteristic long-chain base (LCB) moiety might be essential for the interaction between sphingolipids and sterols during microdomain formation. Investigating LCB hydroxylase mutants in Physcomitrium patens might therefore reveal the role of certain plant sphingolipids in the formation of PM subdomains. Physcomitrium patens mutants for the LCB C-4 hydroxylase S4H were generated by homologous recombination. Plants were characterised by analysing their sphingolipid and steryl glycoside (SG) profiles and by investigating different gametophyte stages. s4h mutants lost the hydroxyl group at the C-4 position of their LCB moiety. Loss of this hydroxyl group caused global changes in the moss sphingolipidome and in SG composition. Changes in membrane lipid composition may trigger growth defects by interfering with the localisation of membrane-associated proteins that are crucial for growth processes such as signalling receptors or callose-modifying enzymes. Loss of LCB-C4 hydroxylation substantially changes the P. patens sphingolipidome and reveals a key role for S4H during development of nonvascular plants. Physcomitrium patens is a valuable model for studying the diversification of plant sphingolipids. The simple anatomy of P. patens facilitates visualisation of physiological processes in biological membranes.
The benefit of autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in newly diagnosed myeloma patients, apart from supporting high dose chemotherapy, may include effects on T cell function in the bone marrow (BM). We report our exploratory findings on marrow infiltrating T cells early post-ASCT (day+100), examining phenotype and T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire, seeking correlations with timing of relapse. Compared to healthy donors (HD), we observed an increase in regulatory T cells (CD4+FoxP3+, Tregs) with reduction in CD4 T cells, leading to lower CD4:8 ratios. Compared to paired pre-treatment marrow, both CD4 and CD8 compartments showed a reduction in naïve, and increase in effector memory subsets, suggestive of a more differentiated phenotype. This was supported by increased levels of several immune-regulatory and activation proteins (ICOS, PD-1, LAG-3, CTLA-4 and GzmB) when compared with HD. Unsupervised analysis identified a patient subgroup with shorter PFS (p=0.031) whose BM contained increased Tregs, and higher immune-regulatory markers (ICOS, PD-1, LAG-3) on effector T cells. Using single feature analysis, higher frequencies of marrow PD-1+ on CD4+FoxP3- cells and Ki67+ on CD8 cells were independently associated with early relapse. Finally, studying paired pre-treatment and post-ASCT BM (n=5), we note reduced abundance of TCR sequences at day+100, with a greater proportion of expanded sequences indicating a more focused persistent TCR repertoire. Our findings indicate that, following induction chemotherapy and ASCT, marrow T cells demonstrate increased activation and differentiation, with TCR repertoire focusing. Pending confirmation in larger series, higher levels of immune-regulatory proteins on T cell effectors at day+100 may indicate early relapse.
PURPOSE: Chemotherapeutic adjuvants, such as oxaliplatin (OXA) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), that enhance the immune system, are being assessed as strategies to improve durable response rates when used in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) monotherapy in cancer patients. In this study, we explored granzyme B (GZB), released by tumor-associated immune cells, as a PET imaging-based stratification marker for successful combination therapy using a fluorine-18 (18F)-labelled GZB peptide ([18F]AlF-mNOTA-GZP).METHODS: Using the immunocompetent CT26 syngeneic mouse model of colon cancer, we assessed the potential for [18F]AlF-mNOTA-GZP to stratify OXA/5-FU and ICI combination therapy response via GZB PET. In vivo tumor uptake of [18F]AlF-mNOTA-GZP in different treatment arms was quantified by PET, and linked to differences in tumor-associated immune cell populations defined by using multicolour flow cytometry.RESULTS: [18F]AlF-mNOTA-GZP tumor uptake was able to clearly differentiate treatment responders from non-responders when stratified based on changes in tumor volume. Furthermore, [18F]AlF-mNOTA-GZP showed positive associations with changes in tumor-associated lymphocytes expressing GZB, namely GZB+ CD8+ T cells and GZB+ NK+ cells.CONCLUSIONS: [18F]AlF-mNOTA-GZP tumor uptake, driven by changes in immune cell populations expressing GZB, is able to stratify tumor response to chemotherapeutics combined with ICIs. Our results show that, while the immunomodulatory mode of action of the chemotherapies may be different, the ultimate mechanism of tumor lysis through release of Granzyme B is an accurate biomarker for treatment response.
Acute myocardial infarction is a common condition responsible for heart failure and sudden death. Here, we show that following acute myocardial infarction in mice, CD8+ T lymphocytes are recruited and activated in the ischemic heart tissue and release Granzyme B, leading to cardiomyocyte apoptosis, adverse ventricular remodeling and deterioration of myocardial function. Depletion of CD8+ T lymphocytes decreases apoptosis within the ischemic myocardium, hampers inflammatory response, limits myocardial injury and improves heart function. These effects are recapitulated in mice with Granzyme B-deficient CD8+ T cells. The protective effect of CD8 depletion on heart function is confirmed by using a model of ischemia/reperfusion in pigs. Finally, we reveal that elevated circulating levels of GRANZYME B in patients with acute myocardial infarction predict increased risk of death at 1-year follow-up. Our work unravels a deleterious role of CD8+ T lymphocytes following acute ischemia, and suggests potential therapeutic strategies targeting pathogenic CD8+ T lymphocytes in the setting of acute myocardial infarction.
Pressure injuries (PIs), also known as bedsores or pressure ulcers, are a major cause of death and morbidity in the elderly. The serine protease, Granzyme B (GzmB), contributes to skin aging and impaired wound healing. Aging is a major risk factor for PIs; thus, the role of GzmB in PI pathogenesis was investigated. GzmB levels in human PI tissue and wound fluids were markedly elevated. A causative role for GzmB was assessed in GzmB knockout (GzmB-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice using a murine model of PI. An apolipoprotein E knockout (ApoE-/-) model of aging and vascular dysfunction was also utilized to assess GzmB in a relevant age-related model better resembling tissue perfusion in the elderly. PI severity displayed no difference between young GzmB-/- and WT mice. However, in aged mice, PI severity was reduced in mice lacking GzmB. Mechanistically, GzmB increased vascular wall inflammation and impaired extracellular matrix remodeling. Together, GzmB is an important contributor to age-dependent impaired PI healing.
The wound healing response of fibroblasts critically depends on the primary cilium, a sensory organelle protruding into the environment and comprising a stable axonemal structure. A characteristic marker for primary cilia is acetylation of axonemal tubulin. Although formation of primary cilia is under cell cycle control, the environmental cues affecting ciliation are not fully understood. Our purpose was, therefore, to study the impact of culture conditions on cilia formation in NIH3T3 fibroblasts. We quantified ciliation in different NIH3T3 sub-cell lines and culture conditions by immunodetection of primary cilia and counting. Quantitative Western blotting, qRT-PCR, and proliferation assays completed our investigation. We observed large differences between NIH3T3 sub-cell lines in their ability to generate acetylated primary cilia that correlated with cytoplasmic tubulin acetylation. We found no increased activity of the major tubulin deacetylase, HDAC6, but instead reduced expression of the α-tubulin acetyltransferase 1 (Atat1) as being causative. Our observations demonstrate that cells with reduced expression of Atat1 and tubulin acetylation proliferate faster, eventually displacing all other cells in the population. Expression of Atat1 and tubulin acetylation are therefore selective forces in cell competition.
Cytotoxic T cells and natural killer cells can kill target cells based on their expression and release of perforin, granulysin, and granzymes. Genes encoding these molecules have been only poorly annotated in camelids. Based on bioinformatic analyses of genomic resources, sequences corresponding to perforin, granulysin, and granzymes were identified in genomes of camelids and related ungulate species, and annotation of the corresponding genes was performed. A phylogenetic tree was constructed to study evolutionary relationships between the species analyzed. Re-sequencing of all genes in a panel of 10 dromedaries and 10 domestic Bactrian camels allowed analyzing their individual genetic polymorphisms. The data showed that all extant Old World camelids possess functional genes for two pore-forming proteins (PRF1, GNLY) and six granzymes (GZMA, GZMB, GZMH, GZMK, GZMM, and GZMO). All these genes were represented as single copies in the genome except the GZMH gene exhibiting interspecific differences in the number of loci. High protein sequence similarities with other camelid and ungulate species were observed for GZMK and GZMM. The protein variability in dromedaries and Bactrian camels was rather low, except for GNLY and chymotrypsin-like granzymes (GZMB, GZMH).
As the sentinels of innate and adaptive immune system, dendritic cells (DCs) have been considered to hold a great promise for medical application. Among the diverse types of DCs, monocyte-derived DCs (mo-DCs) generated in vitro have been most commonly employed. We have been improving the culture protocol and devised a protocol to produce mature interferon-α-induced DCs (IFN-DCs), hereinafter called (mat)IFN-DCs. While exploring the relationship between the expression of CD56 and the cytotoxic activity of (mat)IFN-DCs, we unexpectedly found that sorting of (mat)IFN-DCs with CD56 antibody-coated microbeads (MB) resulted in fractionating cells with tumoricidal activity into the flow-through (FT) but not MB-bound fraction. We uncovered that the FT fraction contains cells expressing low but substantial level of CD56. Moreover, those cells express granzyme B (GrB), perforin (PFN), and serpin B9 at high levels. By employing a specific inhibitor of PFN, we confirmed that direct tumoricidal activity relies on the GrB/PFN pathway. We designated subpopulation in FT fraction as CD56dim and that in CD56 positively sorted fraction as CD56bright , respectively. This is the first time, to our knowledge, to identify subpopulations of CD56-positive IFN-DCs with distinct tumoricidal activity which is ascribed to high expression of the components of GrB/PFN pathway.
Mitochondria play important roles in the plant stress responses and the detoxification of the reactive oxygen species generated in the electron transport chain. Expression of genes encoding stress-related proteins such as the mitochondrial small heat shock proteins (M-sHSP) is upregulated in response to different abiotic stresses. In Arabidopsis thaliana, three M-sHSPs paralogous genes were identified, although their function under physiological conditions remains elusive. The aim of this work is to uncover the in vivo function of all three M-sHSPs at the whole plant level. To accomplish this goal, we analyzed the phenotype, proteomic, and metabolic profiles of Arabidopsis knock-down lines of M-sHSPs (single, double, and triple knock-down lines) during normal plant growth. The triple knock-down plants showed the most prominent altered phenotype at vegetative and reproductive stages without any externally applied stress. They displayed chlorotic leaves, growth arrest, and low seed production. Concomitantly, they exhibited increased levels of sugars, proline, and citric, malic, and ascorbic acid, among other metabolites. In contrast, single and double knock-down plants displayed a few changes in their phenotype. A redundant function among the three M-sHSPs is indicated by the impairment in vegetative and reproductive growth associated with the simultaneous loss of all three M-sHSPs genes. The triple knock-down lines showed alteration of proteins mainly involved in photosynthesis and antioxidant defense compared to the control plants. On the other hand, heat stress triggered a distinct cytosolic response pattern and the upregulation of other sHSP members, in the knock-down plants. Overall, depletion of all three M-sHSPs in Arabidopsis severely impacted fundamental metabolic processes, leading to alterations in the correct plant growth and development. These findings expand our knowledge about the contribution of organelle-specific M-sHSPs to healthy plant growth under non-stress conditions.
Ibrutinib has clear efficacy for activated B-cell-like diffuse large B cell lymphoma (ABC-DLBCL) in previous clinical researches. However, the resistance of Ibrutinib has limited its therapeutic benefit and the potential mechanism remains unclear. This study was aimed to identify potential candidate genes and miRNA targets to overcome Ibrutinib resistance in ABC-DLBCL. First, two expression profiles were downloaded from the GEO database, which used to identify the DEGs related to Ibrutinib resistance in ABC-DLBCL cell lines by GEO2R analysis separately. And the common DEGs were obtained though Venn diagram. Then Gene ontology (GO) and pathway enrichment analysis were conducted by DAVID database. From STRING database, BCL6, IL10, IL2RB, IRF4, CD80, PRDM1and GZMB were determined to be the hub genes by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Through miRNA-mRNA targeting network, we found that BCL6, IRF4, CD80, and PRDM1 were common target genes of miR-30 family. The cBioPortal database showed that BCL6 had the highest level of genetic alterations among DLBCL. In addition, another expression profile from GEO database showed that BCL6 was significantly high expression in no responsive patients after Ibrutinib treatment, and the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve which was used to evaluate the relationship between BCL6 expression and its effect was 0.67. MTT assay showed that treatment with FX1 (a BCL6 inhibitor) can enhance the sensitivity of Ibrutinib in C481S BTK HBL-1 cells. The results suggested that BCL6 and miR-30 family maybe associate with Ibrutinib resistance in ABC-DLBCL.
Many bacteria use cyclic di-AMP as a second messenger to control potassium and osmotic homeostasis. In Bacillus subtilis, several c-di-AMP binding proteins and RNA molecules have been identified. Most of these targets play a role in controlling potassium uptake and export. In addition, c-di-AMP binds to two conserved target proteins of unknown function, DarA and DarB, that exclusively consist of the c-di-AMP binding domain. Here, we investigate the function of the c-di-AMP-binding protein DarB in B. subtilis, which consists of two cystathionine-beta synthase (CBS) domains. We use an unbiased search for DarB interaction partners and identify the (p)ppGpp synthetase/hydrolase Rel as a major interaction partner of DarB. (p)ppGpp is another second messenger that is formed upon amino acid starvation and under other stress conditions to stop translation and active metabolism. The interaction between DarB and Rel only takes place if the bacteria grow at very low potassium concentrations and intracellular levels of c-di-AMP are low. We show that c-di-AMP inhibits the binding of DarB to Rel and the DarB-Rel interaction results in the Rel-dependent accumulation of pppGpp. These results link potassium and c-di-AMP signaling to the stringent response and thus to the global control of cellular physiology.
Oils and fats of vegetable and animal origin remain an important renewable feedstock for the chemical industry. Their industrial use has increased during the last 10 years from 31 to 51 million tonnes annually. Remarkable achievements made in the field of oleochemistry in this timeframe are summarized herein, including the reduction of fatty esters to ethers, the selective oxidation and oxidative cleavage of C-C double bonds, the synthesis of alkyl-branched fatty compounds, the isomerizing hydroformylation and alkoxycarbonylation, and olefin metathesis. The use of oleochemicals for the synthesis of a great variety of polymeric materials has increased tremendously, too. In addition to lipases and phospholipases, other enzymes have found their way into biocatalytic oleochemistry. Important achievements have also generated new oil qualities in existing crop plants or by using microorganisms optimized by metabolic engineering.
We demonstrate that DNA hypomethylating agent (HMA) treatment can directly modulate the anti-tumor response and effector function of CD8+ T cells. In vivo HMA treatment promotes CD8+ T cell tumor infiltration and suppresses tumor growth via CD8+ T cell-dependent activity. Ex vivo, HMAs enhance primary human CD8+ T cell activation markers, effector cytokine production, and anti-tumor cytolytic activity. Epigenomic and transcriptomic profiling shows that HMAs vastly regulate T cell activation-related transcriptional networks, culminating with over-activation of NFATc1 short isoforms. Mechanistically, demethylation of an intragenic CpG island immediately downstream to the 3' UTR of the short isoform was associated with antisense transcription and alternative polyadenylation of NFATc1 short isoforms. High-dimensional single-cell mass cytometry analyses reveal a selective effect of HMAs on a subset of human CD8+ T cell subpopulations, increasing both the number and abundance of a granzyme Bhigh, perforinhigh effector subpopulation. Overall, our findings support the use of HMAs as a therapeutic strategy to boost anti-tumor immune response.
Jasmonic acid (JA) and its derivatives called jasmonates (JAs) are lipid-derived signalling molecules that are produced by plants and certain fungi. Beside this function, JAs have a great variety of applications in flavours and fragrances production. In addition, they may have a high potential in agriculture. JAs protect plants against infections. Although there is much information on the biosynthesis and function of JA concerning plants, knowledge on these aspects is still scarce for fungi. Taking into account the practical importance of JAs, the objective of this review is to summarize knowledge on the occurrence of JAs from fungal culture media, their biosynthetic pathways and the culture conditions for optimal JA production as an alternative source for the production of these valuable metabolites.
OBJECTIVE: Primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) is a systemic autoimmune disease, and its pathogenetic mechanism is far from being understood. In this study, we aimed to explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms that lead to pathogenesis of this disease.METHODS: We applied single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to 57,288 peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from five patients with pSS and five healthy controls. The immune cell subsets and susceptibility genes involved in the pathogenesis of pSS were analyzed. Flow cytometry was preformed to verify the result of scRNA-seq.RESULTS: We identified two subpopulations significantly expand in pSS patients. The one highly expressing cytotoxicity genes is named as CD4+ CTLs cytotoxic T lymphocyte, and another highly expressing T cell receptor (TCR) variable gene is named as CD4+ TRAV13-2+ T cell. Flow cytometry results showed the percentages of CD4+ CTLs, which were profiled with CD4+ and GZMB+ staining; the total T cells of 10 patients with pSS were significantly higher than those of 10 healthy controls (P= 0.008). The expression level of IL-1β in macrophages, TCL1A in B cells, as well as interferon (IFN) response genes in most cell subsets was upregulated in the patients with pSS. Susceptibility genes including HLA-DRB5, CTLA4, and AQP3 were highly expressed in patients with pSS.CONCLUSIONS: Our data revealed disease-specific immune cell subsets and provided some potential new targets of pSS. Specific expansion of CD4+ CTLs may be involved in the pathogenesis of pSS, which might give valuable insights for therapeutic interventions of pSS.
BACKGROUND: Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 13 (CXCL13) was known as a selective chemotaxis for B cells, a product of follicular helper CD4+T cells (TFH) and a contributor to tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). Although secretion and function of CXCL13 produced by TFH have been deeply explored, the immune function and prognostic significance of CXCL13 secreted by CD8+T cells still remain unrevealed. This study aims to investigate the clinical merit of CXCL13+CD8+T cells in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC).METHODS: We analyzed prognostic value and immune contexture that associated with CXCL13+CD8+T cells infiltration level in a total of 755 patients from Zhongshan Hospital cohort (n=223) and The Cancer Genome Atlas cohort (n=532). In vitro analyses were conducted on 42 samples of resected tumor tissue from Zhongshan Hospital in order to detect the immune status of CXCL13+CD8+T cells and total CD8+T cells. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and flow cytometry were applied to characterize immune cells and portray the tumor microenvironment (TME) in ccRCC.RESULTS: Intratumoral CXCL13+CD8+T cells abundance was associated with inferior overall survival and disease-free survival. CXCL13+CD8+T cells possessed higher level of immune checkpoints like programmed cell-death protein 1 (PD-1), T-cell immunoglobulin mucin 3 (Tim-3), T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), higher Ki-67 expression and lower tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interferon γ (IFN-γ) expression. Total CD8+T cells in high-level CXCL13+CD8+T cells infiltration subgroup exhibited elevated exhausted markers (PD-1, Tim-3, TIGIT) and descended activated markers (TNF-α, IFN-γ) without quantity variance. Furthermore, the abundance of intratumoral CXCL13+CD8+T cell was correlated with immunoevasive TME accompanied by increased T helper 2 cells, tumor-associated macrophages, Foxp3+ regulatory T cells, TLS and decreased natural killer cells, GZMB+ cells.CONCLUSIONS: Intratumoral CXCL13+CD8+T cells infiltration indicated inferior clinical outcome in patients with ccRCC. CXCL13+CD8+T cells possessed increased exhausted markers, decreased effector molecules and better proliferation ability. CXCL13+CD8+T cells abundance impaired total CD8+T cells' immune function. Intratumoral CXCL13+CD8+T cells abundance was associated with immunoevasive contexture. The abundance of CXCL13+CD8+T cells was an independent prognosticator and a potential immunotherapeutic target marker for ccRCC treatment.
Nup214 is a major nucleoporin on the cytoplasmic side of the nuclear pore complex with roles in late steps of nuclear protein and mRNA export. It interacts with the nuclear export receptor CRM1 (also known as XPO1) via characteristic phenylalanine-glycine (FG) repeats in its C-terminal region. Here, we identify a classic nuclear export sequence (NES) in Nup214 that mediates Ran-dependent binding to CRM1. Nup214 versions with mutations in the NES, as well as wild-type Nup214 in the presence of the selective CRM1 inhibitor leptomycin B, accumulate in the nucleus of Nup214-overexpressing cells. Furthermore, physiological binding partners of Nup214, such as Nup62 and Nup88, are recruited to the nucleus together with Nup214. Nuclear export of mutant Nup214 can be rescued by artificial nuclear export sequences at the C-terminal end of Nup214, leading also to a correct localization of Nup88. Our results suggest a function of the Nup214 NES in the biogenesis of the nuclear pore complex and/or in terminal steps of CRM1-dependent protein export.
AIM: this study was conducted to investigate expression of the genes associated with CD in the target tissue in order to estimate contribution of each single gene to development of immune response. Then, the same set of genes was evaluated in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).BACKGROUND: Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease of the small intestine occurring in genetically-susceptible individuals. There are several genes related to immune response.METHODS: For this purpose, the genes related to CD were extracted from public databases (documents of proteomics and microarray-based techniques) and were organized in a protein-protein interaction network using the search tool for retrieval of interacting genes/proteins (STRING) database as a plugin of Cytoscape software version 3.6.0. The main genes were introduced and enriched via ClueGO to find the related biochemical pathways. The network was analyzed, and the most important genes were introduced based on central indices.RESULTS: Among 20 CD genes as hub and bottleneck nodes, there were 7 genes with common expression in blood and intestinal tissue (C-X-C motif chemokine 11(CXCL11), granzyme B (GZMB), interleukin 15(IL-15), interleukin 17(IL-17A), interleukin 23(IL-23A), t-box transcription factor 21(TBX21), and tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3(TNFAIP3)).CONCLUSION: The enriched biological process related to the central nodes of celiac network indicated that most of hub-bottleneck genes are the well-known ones involved in different types of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
Secondary cell wall polymers fulfil diverse and important functions within the cell wall of Gram-positive bacteria. Here, we will provide a brief overview of the principles of teichoic acid and complex secondary cell wall polysaccharide biosynthesis pathways in Firmicutes and summarize the recently revised mechanism for the decoration of teichoic acids with d-alanines. Many cell wall polymers are decorated with glycosyl groups, either intracellularly or extracellularly. The main focus of this review will be on the extracellular glycosylation mechanism and recent advances that have been made in the identification of enzymes involved in this process. Based on the proteins involved, we propose to rename the system to multi-component transmembrane glycosylation system in place of three-component glycosylation system.
Pancreatic cancer is a particularly lethal malignancy that resists immunotherapy. In this study, using a preclinical pancreatic cancer murine model, we demonstrate a progressive decrease in IFN-γ and granzyme B and a concomitant increase in Tox and IL-10 in intratumoral tumor-specific T cells. Intratumoral myeloid cells produced elevated IL-27, a cytokine that correlates with poor patient outcome. Abrogating IL-27 signaling significantly decreased intratumoral Tox+ T cells and delayed tumor growth yet was not curative. Agonistic αCD40 decreased intratumoral IL-27-producing myeloid cells, decreased IL-10-producing intratumoral T cells, and promoted intratumoral Klrg1+Gzmb+ short-lived effector T cells. Combination agonistic αCD40+αPD-L1 cured 63% of tumor-bearing animals, promoted rejection following tumor rechallenge, and correlated with a 2-log increase in pancreas-residing tumor-specific T cells. Interfering with Ifngr1 expression in nontumor/host cells abrogated agonistic αCD40+αPD-L1 efficacy. In contrast, interfering with nontumor/host cell Tnfrsf1a led to cure in 100% of animals following agonistic αCD40+αPD-L1 and promoted the formation of circulating central memory T cells rather than long-lived effector T cells. In summary, we identify a mechanistic basis for T cell exhaustion in pancreatic cancer and a feasible clinical strategy to overcome it.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), comprises mild courses of disease as well as progression to severe disease, characterised by lung and other organ failure. The immune system is considered to play a crucial role for the pathogenesis of COVID-19, although especially the contribution of innate-like T cells remains poorly understood. Here, we analysed the phenotype and function of mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells, innate-like T cells with potent antimicrobial effector function, in patients with mild and severe COVID-19 by multicolour flow cytometry. Our data indicate that MAIT cells are highly activated in patients with COVID-19, irrespective of the course of disease, and express high levels of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-17A and TNFα ex vivo. Of note, expression of the activation marker HLA-DR positively correlated with SAPS II score, a measure of disease severity. Upon MAIT cell-specific in vitro stimulation, MAIT cells however failed to upregulate expression of the cytokines IL-17A and TNFα, as well as cytolytic proteins, that is, granzyme B and perforin. Thus, our data point towards an altered cytokine expression profile alongside an impaired antibacterial and antiviral function of MAIT cells in COVID-19 and thereby contribute to the understanding of COVID-19 immunopathogenesis.
The limited cytotoxicity of immune cells facilitates a successful establishment of pregnancy. However, the association between cytotoxic granules and unexplained repeated implantation failure (uRIF) remains unkown. Twenty-one fertile controls and 54 patients with uRIF were included in this study. The pregnancy outcomes were monitored at different gestational periods. The peripheral blood lymphocytes were detected using specific monoclonal antibodies by flow cytometry. The percentage of perforin+ (Pfr+), granzyme B+ (GrB+), or granulysin+ (Gnly+) lymphocytes was not significantly different among fertile controls, uRIF patients with successful pregnancy outcomes, and uRIF patients with pregnancy failure. The percentage of GrB+ γδ-T cells in lymphocytes was markedly higher in uRIF patients with implantation failure and clinical pregnancy failure than that in uRIF patients with a corresponding successful pregnancy outcome. A four-tier risk model showed that the risk of suffering clinical pregnancy failure in uRIF patients among high risk tier (83.3 %), normal risk tier (65.0 %) and low risk tier (39.1 %) was elevated by 2-4 fold compared with uRIF patients among lowest risk tier (20.0 %). In addition, the percentage of GrB+ NK cells in lymphocytes tended to decrease in uRIF patients with pregnancy failure. The AUC of the combined indicator with GrB+ γδ-T cells and GrB+ NK cells was increased than that of GrB+ γδ-T cells and GrB+ NK cells for predicting clinical pregnancy failure. In conclusion, the frequency of GrB-expressing γδ-T and NK cells in peripheral blood could serve as a predictor of clinical pregnancy failure in patients with uRIF.
Cellular membranes can adopt a plethora of complex and beautiful shapes, most of which are believed to have evolved for a particular physiological reason. The closely entangled relationship between membrane morphology and cellular physiology is strikingly seen in membrane trafficking pathways. During clathrin-mediated endocytosis, for example, over the course of a minute, a patch of the more or less flat plasma membrane is remodeled into a highly curved clathrin-coated vesicle. Such vesicles are internalized by the cell to degrade or recycle plasma membrane receptors or to take up extracellular ligands. Other, steadier, membrane morphologies can be observed in organellar membranes like the endoplasmic reticulum or mitochondria. In the case of mitochondria, which are double membrane-bound, ubiquitous organelles of eukaryotic cells, especially the mitochondrial inner membrane displays an intricated ultrastructure. It is highly folded and consequently has a much larger surface than the mitochondrial outer membrane. It can adopt different shapes in response to cellular demands and changes of the inner membrane morphology often accompany severe diseases, including neurodegenerative- and metabolic diseases and cancer. In recent years, progress was made in the identification of molecules that are important for the aforementioned membrane remodeling events. In this review, we will sum up recent results and discuss the main players of membrane remodeling processes that lead to the mitochondrial inner membrane ultrastructure and in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. We will compare differences and similarities between the molecular mechanisms that peripheral and integral membrane proteins use to deform membranes.
Graves' orbitopathy (GO), the most severe manifestation of Graves' hyperthyroidism (GH), is an autoimmune-mediated inflammatory disorder, and treatments often exhibit a low efficacy. CD4+ T cells have been reported to play vital roles in GO progression. To explore the pathogenic CD4+ T cell types that drive GO progression, we applied single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq), T cell receptor sequencing (TCR-Seq), flow cytometry, immunofluorescence and mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assays to evaluate CD4+ T cells from GO and GH patients. scRNA-Seq revealed the novel GO-specific cell type CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), which are characterized by chemotactic and inflammatory features. The clonal expansion of this CD4+ CTL population, as demonstrated by TCR-Seq, along with their strong cytotoxic response to autoantigens, localization in orbital sites, and potential relationship with disease relapse provide strong evidence for the pathogenic roles of GZMB and IFN-γ-secreting CD4+ CTLs in GO. Therefore, cytotoxic pathways may become potential therapeutic targets for GO.
Background: Lung cancer is one of the most common types of cancer, and it has a poor prognosis. It is urgent to identify prognostic biomarkers to guide therapy. Methods: The immune gene expression profiles for patients with lung adenocarcinomas (LUADs) were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). The relationships between the expression of 45 immune checkpoint genes (ICGs) and prognosis were analyzed. Additionally, the correlations between the expression of 45 biomarkers and immunotherapy biomarkers, including tumor mutation burden (TMB), mismatch repair defects, neoantigens, and others, were identified. Ultimately, prognostic ICGs were combined to determine immune subgroups, and the prognostic differences between these subgroups were identified in LUAD. Results: A total of 11 and nine ICGs closely related to prognosis were obtained from the GEO and TCGA databases, respectively. CD200R1 expression had a significant negative correlation with TMB and neoantigens. CD200R1 showed a significant positive correlation with CD8A, CD68, and GZMB, indicating that it may cause the disordered expression of adaptive immune resistance pathway genes. Multivariable Cox regression was used to construct a signature composed of four prognostic ICGs (IDO1, CD274, CTLA4, and CD200R1): Risk Score = -0.002* IDO1+0.031* CD274-0.069* CTLA4-0.517* CD200R1. The median Risk Score was used to classify the samples for the high- and low-risk groups. We observed significant differences between groups in the training, testing, and external validation cohorts. Conclusion: Our research provides a method of integrating ICG expression profiles and clinical prognosis information to predict lung cancer prognosis, which will provide a unique reference for gene immunotherapy for LUAD.
For plants, acclimation to low temperatures is fundamental to survival. This process involves the modification of lipids to maintain membrane fluidity. We previously identified a new cold-induced putative desaturase in Physcomitrium (Physcomitrella) patens. Lipid profiles of null mutants of this gene lack sphingolipids containing monounsaturated C24 fatty acids, classifying the new protein as sphingolipid fatty acid denaturase (PpSFD). PpSFD mutants showed a cold-sensitive phenotype as well as higher susceptibility to the oomycete Pythium, assigning functions in stress tolerance for PpSFD. Ectopic expression of PpSFD in the Atads2.1 (acyl coenzyme A desaturase-like 2) Arabidopsis thaliana mutant functionally complemented its cold-sensitive phenotype. While these two enzymes catalyse a similar reaction, their evolutionary origin is clearly different since AtADS2 is a methyl-end desaturase whereas PpSFD is a cytochrome b5 fusion desaturase. Altogether, we suggest that adjustment of membrane fluidity evolved independently in mosses and seed plants, which diverged more than 500 million years ago.
In order to adjust to changing environmental conditions, bacteria use nucleotide second messengers to transduce external signals and translate them into a specific cellular response. Cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) is the only known essential nucleotide second messenger. In addition to the well-established role of this second messenger in the control of potassium homeostasis, we observed that glutamate is as toxic as potassium for a c-di-AMP-free strain of the Gram-positive model bacterium Bacillus subtilis. In this work, we isolated suppressor mutants that allow growth of a c-di-AMP-free strain under these toxic conditions. Characterization of glutamate resistant suppressors revealed that they contain pairs of mutations, in most cases affecting glutamate and potassium homeostasis. Among these mutations, several independent mutations affected a novel glutamate transporter, AimA (Amino acid importer A, formerly YbeC). This protein is the major transporter for glutamate and serine in B. subtilis. Unexpectedly, some of the isolated suppressor mutants could suppress glutamate toxicity by a combination of mutations that affect phospholipid biosynthesis and a specific gain-of-function mutation of a mechanosensitive channel of small conductance (YfkC) resulting in the acquisition of a device for glutamate export. Cultivation of the c-di-AMP-free strain on complex medium was an even greater challenge because the amounts of potassium, glutamate, and other osmolytes are substantially higher than in minimal medium. Suppressor mutants viable on complex medium could only be isolated under anaerobic conditions if one of the two c-di-AMP receptor proteins, DarA or DarB, was absent. Also on complex medium, potassium and osmolyte toxicity are the major bottlenecks for the growth of B. subtilis in the absence of c-di-AMP. Our results indicate that the essentiality of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis is caused by the global impact of the second messenger nucleotide on different aspects of cellular physiology.
Granzyme B (GZMB)-expressing B cells inhibit CD4+ T-lymphocyte proliferation in a contact- and GZMB-dependent manner, through degradation of TCR zeta or induction of T-cell apoptosis. This regulatory B-cell population is present in human healthy individuals and represents about 1% of circulating B cells. Their small proportion requires the development of expansion methods to enable their study and envision clinical applications. We describe here how to expand GZMB-expressing B cells to obtain more than 90% of highly purified GZMB+ B cells, and the protocol of B/T cells coculture for the evaluation of the suppressive function of the GZMB+ B-cell population.
The choice of chemo- or immuno-therapy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) patients remains contentious. Podoplanin is newly identified as an immune checkpoint which intrigues us to explore the clinical significance and immunoregulatory role of tumor-infiltrating podoplanin+ cells (PDPN+ cells) in MIBC. A retrospective analysis of 259 MIBC patients from Zhongshan Hospital (n = 141) and Shanghai Cancer Center (n = 118) was conducted. A total of 406 MIBC patients from TCGA database were enrolled to investigate the relationship between PDPN and molecular characterization. We found that tumor-infiltrating PDPN+ cell abundance indicated an inferior overall survival and recurrence-free survival. pT2 MIBC patients with PDPN+ cell low infiltration could benefit more from adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT). Increased PDPN+ cell infiltration was associated with diminished GZMB and TNF-α expression while correlated with expanded PD-1, PD-L1, LAG-3 and TIM-3 expression and tumor-promoting regulatory T cell and M2 macrophage infiltration. Tumors with high PDPN mRNA expression mainly presented luminal-infiltrated and basal-squamous subtypes (2017 TCGA classification) or stroma-rich and Ba/Sq subtypes (consensus classification). Elevated PDPN mRNA expression was associated with less FGFR3 activation signature and more T-cell-inflamed signature and EGFR activation signature. In conclusion, tumor-infiltrating PDPN+ cells could be applied as an independent prognosticator for clinical outcome and a predictive biomarker for suboptimal ACT responsiveness, which was also associated with immunosuppressive contexture infiltration. Intratumoral PDPN expression had a correlation with MIBC molecular classification and therapy-related signatures. The novel immune checkpoint PDPN should be considered as a possible immunotherapeutic target for MIBC.
ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters are usually involved in the translocation of their cognate substrates, which is driven by ATP hydrolysis. Typically, these transporters are required for the import or export of a wide range of substrates such as sugars, ions and complex organic molecules. ABC exporters can also be involved in the export of toxic compounds such as antibiotics. However, recent studies revealed alternative detoxification mechanisms of ABC transporters. For instance, the ABC transporter BceAB of Bacillus subtilis seems to confer resistance to bacitracin via target protection. In addition, several transporters with functions other than substrate export or import have been identified in the past. Here, we provide an overview of recent findings on ABC transporters of the Gram-positive organisms B. subtilis and Listeria monocytogenes with transport or regulatory functions affecting antibiotic resistance, cell wall biosynthesis, cell division and sporulation.
Pemphigoid diseases refer to a group of severe autoimmune skin blistering diseases characterized by subepidermal blistering and loss of dermal-epidermal adhesion induced by autoantibody and immune cell infiltrate at the dermal-epidermal junction and upper dermis. Here, we explore the role of the immune cell-secreted serine protease, granzyme B, in pemphigoid disease pathogenesis using three independent murine models. In all models, granzyme B knockout or topical pharmacological inhibition significantly reduces total blistering area compared to controls. In vivo and in vitro studies show that granzyme B contributes to blistering by degrading key anchoring proteins in the dermal-epidermal junction that are necessary for dermal-epidermal adhesion. Further, granzyme B mediates IL-8/macrophage inflammatory protein-2 secretion, lesional neutrophil infiltration, and lesional neutrophil elastase activity. Clinically, granzyme B is elevated and abundant in human pemphigoid disease blister fluids and lesional skin. Collectively, granzyme B is a potential therapeutic target in pemphigoid diseases.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2021 Mar;22(3):270-272.
Non-segmental vitiligo (NSV) is the most common type of vitiligo, which is characterized by chronic and progressive loss of melanocytes. Genetic factors have been shown to play a key role in NSV in association and family studies. Granzyme B is a serine protease found in the cytoplasmic granules of cytotoxic T lymphocytes and natural killer cells that play an important role in inducing apoptotic changes of target cells. Several recent studies have provided evidence that polymorphism in the GZMB gene might be associated with autoimmune disease. A total of 249 NSV patients and 455 healthy controls were recruited to determine whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) [rs2236337 (3' untranslated region, UTR), rs2236338 (Tyr247His), rs11539752 (Pro94Ala), rs10909625 (Lys80Lys), rs8192917 (Arg55Gln), and rs7144366 (5' near gene)] in GZMB gene contribute to the risk of developing NSV. Genotyping was performed using a single 192.24 Dynamic Array IFC. Data were analyzed using EP1 SNP Genotyping Analysis software to obtain genotype calls. Among the six SNPs tested, five SNPs (rs2236337, rs2236338, rs11539752, rs10909625, and rs8192917) showed significant association with NSV susceptibility. Among them, rs2236338, rs11539752, rs10909625, and rs8192917 remained a statistically significant association following multiple correction test. The five SNPs were located within a block of linkage disequilibrium. Haplotypes T-A-G-T-T and C-G-C-C-C consisting of rs2236337, rs2236338, rs11539752, rs10909625, and rs8192917 demonstrated significant association with NSV. Our results suggest that GZMB polymorphisms are associated with the development of NSV.
Innate immune cells in the tumor microenvironment have been proposed to control the transition from benign to malignant stages. In many cancers, increased infiltration of natural killer (NK) cells associates with good prognosis. Although the mechanisms that enable NK cells to restrain colorectal cancer (CRC) are unclear, the current study suggests the involvement of Smad4. We found suppressed Smad4 expression in circulating NK cells of untreated metastatic CRC patients. Moreover, NK cell-specific Smad4 deletion promoted colon adenomas in DSS-treated ApcMin/+ mice and adenocarcinomas in AOM/DSS-treated mice. Other studies have shown that Smad4 loss or weak expression in colonic epithelium associates with poor survival in CRC patients. Therefore, targeting Smad4 in both colonic epithelium and NK cells could provide an excellent opportunity to manage CRC. Toward this end, we showed that dietary intervention with black raspberries (BRBs) increased Smad4 expression in colonic epithelium in patients with FAP or CRC and in the two CRC mouse models. Also, benzoate metabolites of BRBs, such as hippurate, upregulated Smad4 and Gzmb expression that might enhance the cytotoxicity of primary human NK cells. Of note, increased levels of hippurate is a metabolomic marker of a healthy gut microbiota in humans, and hippurate also has antitumor effects. In conclusion, our study suggests a new mechanism for the action of benzoate metabolites derived from plant-based foods. This mechanism could be exploited clinically to upregulate Smad4 in colonic epithelium and NK cells, thereby delaying CRC progression.
The aberrant expression level of SARS-CoV-2 cell receptor gene ACE2 was reported in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) comorbidity of COVID-19. However, the association of ACE2 expression levels with immunosuppression and metabolic reprogramming in LUAD remains lacking. We investigated the expression level of ACE2, an association of ACE2 expression level with various types of immune signatures, immune ratios, and pathways. We employed a weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) R package to identify the gene modules and investigated prognostic roles of hub genes in LUAD. Overexpression of ACE2 level was found in LUAD and ACE2 expression was negatively associated with various types of immune signatures including CD8+ T cells, CD4+ regulatory T cells, NK cells, and T cell activation. Besides, ACE2 upregulation was not only associated with CD8+ T cell/CD4+ regulatory T cell ratios but also linked with downregulation of immune-markers including CD8A, KLRC1, GZMA, GZMB, NKG7, CCL4, and IFNG. Moreover, the ACE2 expression level was found to be associated with the enrichment level of various metabolic pathways and it was also found that the metabolic pathways are directly positively correlated with the increased expression levels of ACE2, indicating that the overexpression of ACE2 is associated with metabolic reprogramming in LUAD. Furthermore, WGCNA based analysis revealed the gene modules in the high-ACE2-expression-level group of LUAD and identified GCLC and SLC7A11 hub genes which are not only highly expressed in lung adenocarcinoma but also correlated with the poor survival prognosis. Our analysis of ACE2 in LUAD tissues suggests that ACE2 is not only a receptor but is also associated with immunosuppression and metabolic reprogramming. This study underlines the clue for understanding the clinical significance of ACE2 in COVID-19 patients with LUAD comorbidity.
One important task of eukaryotic cells is to translate only mRNAs that were correctly processed to prevent the production of truncated proteins, found in neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. Nuclear quality control of splicing requires the SR-like proteins Gbp2 and Hrb1 in S. cerevisiae, where they promote the degradation of faulty pre-mRNAs. Here we show that Gbp2 and Hrb1 also function in nonsense mediated decay (NMD) of spliced premature termination codon (PTC)-containing mRNAs. Our data support a model in which they are in a complex with the Upf-proteins and help to transmit the Upf1-mediated PTC recognition to the transcripts ends. Most importantly they appear to promote translation repression of spliced transcripts that contain a PTC and to finally facilitate degradation of the RNA, presumably by supporting the recruitment of the degradation factors. Therefore, they seem to control mRNA quality beyond the nuclear border and may thus be global surveillance factors. Identification of SR-proteins as general cellular surveillance factors in yeast will help to understand the complex human system in which many diseases with defects in SR-proteins or NMD are known, but the proteins were not yet recognized as general RNA surveillance factors.
Antiretroviral therapies (ARTs) abrogate HIV replication; however, infection persists as long-lived reservoirs of infected cells with integrated proviruses, which reseed replication if ART is interrupted. A central tenet of our current understanding of this persistence is that infected cells are shielded from immune recognition and elimination through a lack of antigen expression from proviruses. Efforts to cure HIV infection have therefore focused on reactivating latent proviruses to enable immune-mediated clearance, but these have yet to succeed in reducing viral reservoirs. Here, we revisited the question of whether HIV reservoirs are predominately immunologically silent from a new angle: by querying the dynamics of HIV-specific T cell responses over long-term ART for evidence of ongoing recognition of HIV-infected cells. In longitudinal assessments, we show that the rates of change in persisting HIV Nef-specific responses, but not responses to other HIV gene products, were associated with residual frequencies of infected cells. These Nef-specific responses were highly stable over time and disproportionately exhibited a cytotoxic, effector functional profile, indicative of recent in vivo recognition of HIV antigens. These results indicate substantial visibility of the HIV-infected cells to T cells on stable ART, presenting both opportunities and challenges for the development of therapeutic approaches to curing infection.
The impressive success of current cancer immunotherapy in some patients but lack of effectiveness in most patients suggests that additional strategies to promote antitumor immunity are needed. How cancer cells die, whether spontaneously or in response to therapeutic intervention, has a profound effect on the type of immune response mobilized. Here, we review research that highlights a previously unappreciated role of gasdermin-mediated inflammatory death (pyroptosis) to promote antitumor immunity and identifies gasdermin E as a tumor suppressor. Immune elimination of tumor cells by natural killer cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes, which is the final key event in antitumor immunity, was previously thought to be noninflammatory. The research shows that gasdermin expression in tumor cells converts immune cell-mediated killing to inflammatory pyroptosis when cell death-inducing granzymes directly cleave and activate gasdermins. Granzyme B cleaves gasdermin E, and granzyme A cleaves gasdermin B. The data suggest the potential to harness pyroptosis in the tumor to ignite an effective immune response to immunologically cold tumors. Gasdermin expression also augments toxicity of cancer therapy-gasdermin E expression by B-cell leukemias and lymphomas is a root cause of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell cytokine storm, and its expression in normal tissues promotes the toxicity of chemotherapeutic drugs. Even though our knowledge about the role of pyroptosis in cancer is growing, there is still a lot to learn-what activates it, how it is regulated, when it is beneficial, and how it can be harnessed therapeutically to improve cancer immunotherapy or reduce therapy-related toxicity.
The immunological status of human meningiomas is not well understood, hindering the development of rational immunotherapeutic strategies. We measured the levels of PD-L1, PD-L2, and immune cell subsets using multiplex quantitative immunofluorescence in a tissue microarray composed of 73 human meningiomas (56 WHO Grade 1, 13 WHO Grade 2, and 4 WHO Grade 3). We analyzed tumor-infiltrating immune cell populations, T-cell activation/dysfunction, and macrophage phenotypes. PD-L1 and PD-L2 were detected in 5.8% and 68.7% of cases, respectively. There was a higher PD-L1 expression in CD68+ macrophages compared with tumor cells (p < 0.001). There was a weak positive correlation between PD-L1 expression and CD3+ T-cell infiltration. The level of CD3+ cells and T-cell activation/proliferation in human meningiomas were highly variable with an increased CD4-to-CD8 ratio in higher grade tumors (p < 0.05). There was a stronger correlation between GZMB/Ki67 with PD-L2 than PD-L1. We found that 15.23%, 6.66%, and 5.49% of macrophages were CD163+, CD68+, and CD163+CD68+, respectively. In cases where there is high CD3+ T-cell infiltration, 23.5% and 76.5% had dormant and activated T-cell phenotypes, respectively. We conclude that human meningiomas are either PD-L1low TILlow or PD-L1low TILhigh tumors and harbor variable TIL infiltration and phenotypes.
Natural killer (NK) cells are immune effector cells that can detect and lyse cancer cells. However, NK cell exhaustion, a phenotype characterized by reduced secretion of cytolytic models upon serial stimulation, limits the NK cell's ability to lyse cells. In this work, we investigated in silico strategies that counteract the NK cell's reduced secretion of cytolytic molecules. To accomplish this goal, we constructed a mathematical model that describes the dynamics of the cytolytic molecules granzyme B (GZMB) and perforin-1 (PRF1) and calibrated the model predictions to published experimental data using a Bayesian parameter estimation approach. We applied an information-theoretic approach to perform a global sensitivity analysis, from which we found that the suppression of phosphatase activity maximizes the secretion of GZMB and PRF1. However, simply reducing the phosphatase activity is shown to deplete the cell's intracellular pools of GZMB and PRF1. Thus, we added a synthetic Notch (synNotch) signaling circuit to our baseline model as a method for controlling the secretion of GZMB and PRF1 by inhibiting phosphatase activity and increasing production of GZMB and PRF1. We found that the optimal synNotch system depends on the frequency of NK cell stimulation. For only a few rounds of stimulation, the model predicts that inhibition of phosphatase activity leads to more secreted GZMB and PRF1; however, for many rounds of stimulation, the model reveals that increasing production of the cytolytic molecules is the optimal strategy. In total, we developed a mathematical framework that provides actionable insight into engineering robust NK cells for clinical applications.
Clinical trials of biologic therapies in type 1 diabetes (T1D) aim to mitigate autoimmune destruction of pancreatic β cells through immune perturbation and serve as resources to elucidate immunological mechanisms in health and disease. In the T1DAL trial of alefacept (LFA3-Ig) in recent-onset T1D, endogenous insulin production was preserved in 30% of subjects for 2 years after therapy. Given our previous findings linking exhausted-like CD8+ T cells to beneficial response in T1D trials, we applied unbiased analyses to sorted CD8+ T cells to evaluate their potential role in T1DAL. Using RNA sequencing, we found that greater insulin C-peptide preservation was associated with a module of activation- and exhaustion-associated genes. This signature was dissected into 2 CD8 memory phenotypes through correlation with cytometry data. These cells were hypoproliferative, shared expanded rearranged TCR junctions, and expressed exhaustion-associated markers including TIGIT and KLRG1. The 2 phenotypes could be distinguished by reciprocal expression of CD8+ T and NK cell markers (GZMB, CD57, and inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor [iKIR] genes), versus T cell activation and differentiation markers (PD-1 and CD28). These findings support previous evidence linking exhausted-like CD8+ T cells to successful immune interventions for T1D, while suggesting that multiple inhibitory mechanisms can promote this beneficial cell state.
The repair of inflamed, demyelinated lesions as in multiple sclerosis (MS) necessitates the clearance of cholesterol-rich myelin debris by microglia/macrophages and the switch from a pro-inflammatory to an anti-inflammatory lesion environment. Subsequently, oligodendrocytes increase cholesterol levels as a prerequisite for synthesizing new myelin membranes. We hypothesized that lesion resolution is regulated by the fate of cholesterol from damaged myelin and oligodendroglial sterol synthesis. By integrating gene expression profiling, genetics and comprehensive phenotyping, we found that, paradoxically, sterol synthesis in myelin-phagocytosing microglia/macrophages determines the repair of acutely demyelinated lesions. Rather than producing cholesterol, microglia/macrophages synthesized desmosterol, the immediate cholesterol precursor. Desmosterol activated liver X receptor (LXR) signaling to resolve inflammation, creating a permissive environment for oligodendrocyte differentiation. Moreover, LXR target gene products facilitated the efflux of lipid and cholesterol from lipid-laden microglia/macrophages to support remyelination by oligodendrocytes. Consequently, pharmacological stimulation of sterol synthesis boosted the repair of demyelinated lesions, suggesting novel therapeutic strategies for myelin repair in MS.
OBJECTIVES: Antibody-mediated injury in chronic active antibody-mediated rejection, possibly with other effector T cells, may play a role in graft injury. The role of inflammatory cells in the inflammation and fibrosis and tubular atrophy region has been recently advocated in the progression of injury. Cytotoxic T cells play a prominent role in T-cell-mediated rejection; however, the possible role of cytotoxic T cells in circulation and the intragraft compartment in chronic active antibody-mediated rejection, a common immunological cause of long-term graft failure, has not been well-studied.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We measured the frequency of circulating cytotoxic T cells with flow cytometry, serum granzyme B level by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and intragraft granzyme B+ cell, and mRNA by immunohistochemistry and real-time polymerase chain reaction in biopsy tissue from living donor renal allograft recipients with stable graft function and chronic active antibody-mediated rejection.RESULTS: The frequency of CD3+ and CD3+CD8+ T cells was similar in both stable graft function patients and chronic active antibody-mediated rejection patients. The frequency of CD3+CD8+granzyme B+ cytotoxic T cells was significantly lower in peripheral blood. Serum granzyme B level and intragraft number of granzyme B+ cells (counts/mm²) were also significantly higher in the chronic active antibody-mediated rejection group compared with that of patients with stable graft function. The intragraft granzyme B+ T cell count was positively correlated with serum creatinine and 24-hour urine proteinuria but negatively correlated with estimated glomerular filtration rate.CONCLUSIONS: Granzyme B mediates covert graft injury in patients with chronic active antibody-mediated rejection in addition to antibody-mediated injury.
Risk assessors, risk managers, developers, potential applicants, and other stakeholders at many levels discuss the need for new or further risk assessment guidance for deliberate environmental releases of gene drive-modified organisms. However, preparing useful and practical guidance entails challenges, to which we offer recommendations based on our experience drafting guidance.
Aromatic antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are common causes of cutaneous adverse drug reactions, which range from morbilliform drug eruption to life-threatening severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms, Stevens‒Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis. Different in vitro methods for identifying the culprit drugs have been developed; however, it is particularly challenging for Stevens‒Johnson syndrome-toxic epidermal necrolysis. In this study, we enrolled 63 patients (39 with Stevens‒Johnson syndrome-toxic epidermal necrolysis, 13 with drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms, and 11 with morbilliform drug eruption) and 30 tolerant controls to examine the performance of lymphocyte activation tests by measuring the expression of granulysin, granzyme B, and IFN-γ. Granulysin-based lymphocyte activation tests displayed the best sensitivity and specificity to identify the causality: 73.9% sensitivity and 96.7% specificity for carbamazepine and 68.2% sensitivity and 96.7% specificity for phenytoin. Oxcarbazepine and lamotrigine show weak antigenicity. Granulysin-based lymphocyte activation tests expanded predominantly memory cytotoxic T lymphocytes with characteristics of drug-specific T-cell receptor, major histocompatibility complex I dependence, and cross reactivity to different aromatic AEDs. Among 29 follow-up patients, 28 alternatively used nonaromatic AEDs, and none developed cutaneous adverse drug reactions. Our data suggest that granulysin-based lymphocyte activation tests represent in vitro cytotoxic T-lymphocyte memory response to offending drugs and are useful to confirm drug causality of AED-induced severe cutaneous adverse reactions. Implementing these tests will improve the AED-induced severe cutaneous adverse reactions prevention and clinical care.
Our previous study has identified intratumoral CD103+CD8+ T cells as a favorable prognostic factor in gastric cancer. However, the significance of CD103+CD4+ T cells in gastric cancer hasn't yet been elucidated. Here, we aimed to investigate the clinical significance and phenotype characteristics of intratumoral CD103+CD4+ T cells in gastric cancer. In our study, 469 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded samples and 24 fresh tissue specimens of patients with gastric cancer from Zhongshan Hospital were included. We manifested that intratumoral CD103+CD4+ T cells in gastric cancer predicted poor overall survival and inferior responsiveness to fluorouracil-based ACT. The density and phenotypic characteristics of CD103+CD4+ T cells in gastric cancer were detected by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry, which showed that CD103+CD4+ T cells exhibited an immunosuppressive phenotype and higher retention capacity in tumor tissues. Furthermore, increased CD103+CD4+ T cells contributed to CD8+T cell dysfunction with decreased granzyme B (GZMB), interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and perforin (PRF-1) expression in gastric cancer. Overall, this study revealed that intratumoral CD103+CD4+T cell infiltration defined immunoevasive contexture and predicted poor prognosis and inferior responsiveness to fluorouracil-based ACT. Therefore, we recommended that CD103+CD4+ T cells might be a potential immunotherapeutic target for gastric cancer.
Plants have evolved adaptive measures to cope with abiotic and biotic challenges simultaneously. Combinatorial stress responses require environmental signal integration and response prioritization to balance stress adaptation and growth. We have investigated the impact of salt, an important environmental factor in arid regions, on the Arabidopsis innate immune response. Activation of a classical salt stress response resulted in increased susceptibility to infection with hemibiotrophic Pseudomonas syringae or necrotrophic Alternaria brassicicola, and Botrytis cinerea, respectively. Surprisingly, pattern-triggered immunity (PTI)-associated responses were largely unaffected upon salt pre-treatment. However, we further observed a strong increase in phytohormone levels. Particularly, abscisic acid (ABA) levels were already elevated before pathogen infection, and application of exogenous ABA substituted for salt-watering in increasing Arabidopsis susceptibility toward B. cinerea infection. We propose a regulatory role of ABA in attenuating Botrytis immunity in this plant under salt stress conditions.
Granzyme B (GrB) is a serine protease produced by immune and non-immune cells, able to promote multiple processes, like apoptosis, inflammation, extracellular matrix remodeling and fibrosis. GrB expression in visceral adipose tissue (VAT) was associated with tissue damage, local inflammation and insulin resistance in obesity murine model, but there is no data in humans. Aim of this study was to explore the expression of GrB in VAT from obese subjects in relation to adipose tissue injury, inflammation, metabolic alterations and GrB circulating levels. For this purpose, 85 obese individuals undergoing bariatric surgery and 35 healthy subjects (as control) were recruited at Sapienza University, Rome, Italy. Study participants underwent clinical work-up and routine biochemistry. mRNA expression of GrB in VAT and of a panel of VAT inflammatory markers was analyzed by real-time PCR. Serum GrB levels were measured by Elisa Affymetrix EBIO. We observed that 80% of obese patients expressed GrB mRNA in VAT, and GrB VAT expression was associated with the presence of local inflammation and glucose homeostasis alterations. Moreover, GrB serum levels, which were higher in obese subjects compared to non-obese healthy individuals, were associated with GrB expression in VAT and glyco-metabolic impairment. Our data show, for the first time in humans, that obese subjects with "sick" fat and altered glucose tolerance exhibit GrB expression in VAT, and suggest that GrB might contribute to obesity-related VAT inﬂammatory remodeling and glucose homeostasis dysregulation. Moreover, increased circulating GrB levels might represent a possible peripheral marker of VAT dysfunction in metabolic diseases.
Natural polysaccharides exhibit beneficial immune modulatory effects, including immune stimulatory and anti-cancer activities. In this study, we examined the effect of Codium fragile polysaccharide (CFP) on natural killer (NK) cell activation, and its effect on tumor-bearing mice. Intravenous CFP treatment of C57BL/6 mice resulted in the upregulation of CD69, which is a marker associated with NK cell activation. In addition, intracellular levels of interferon (IFN)-γ and the cytotoxic mediators perforin and granzyme B were markedly increased in response to the CFP treatment of splenic NK cells. IFN-γ production by NK cells was directly induced by CFP, whereas the upregulation of CD69 and cytotoxic mediators required IL-12. Finally, intraperitoneal treatment with CFP prevented CT-26 (murine carcinoma) tumor cell infiltration in the lungs, without significantly reducing the body weight. In addition, treatment with CFP prevented B16 melanoma cell infiltration in the lung of C57BL/6 mice. Moreover, the anti-tumor effect was diminished by the depletion of NK cells. Therefore, these data suggest that CFP may be used as an NK cell stimulator to produce a phenomenon that contributes to anti-cancer immunity.
Natural killer (NK) cells are immune cells that can kill certain types of cancer cells. Adoptive transfer of NK cells represents a promising immunotherapy for malignant tumours; however, there is a lack of methods to validate anti-tumour activity of NK cells in vivo. Herein, we report a new chemiluminescent probe to image in situ the granzyme B-mediated killing activity of NK cells against cancer cells. We have optimised a granzyme B-specific construct using an activatable phenoxydioxetane reporter so that enzymatic cleavage of the probe results in bright chemiluminescence. The probe shows high selectivity for active granzyme B over other proteases and higher signal-to-noise ratios than commercial fluorophores. Finally, we demonstrate that the probe can detect NK cell activity in mouse models, being the first chemiluminescent probe for in vivo imaging of NK cell activity in live tumours.
Granzyme B (GrB) is an immune protease implicated in the pathogenesis of several human diseases. In the current model of GrB activity, perforin determines whether the downstream actions of GrB occur intracellularly or extracellularly, producing apoptotic cytotoxicity or nonapoptotic effects, respectively. In the current study, we demonstrate the existence of a broad range of GrB-dependent signaling activities that 1) do not require perforin, 2) occur intracellularly, and 3) for which cell death is not the dominant outcome. In the absence of perforin, we show that GrB enzymatic activity still induces substoichiometric activation of caspases, which through nonlethal DNA damage response signals then leads to activity-associated phosphorylation of IFN regulatory factor-3. These findings illustrate an unexpected potential interface between GrB and innate immunity separate from the traditional role of GrB in perforin-dependent GrB-mediated apoptosis that could have mechanistic implications for human disease.
OBJECTIVES: Immunoglobulin A vasculitis/Henoch-Schönlein purpura (IgAV/HSP) is a major cause of vasculitis in children. It is often accompanied by nephritis (HSPN) and could progress to chronic kidney disease. Galactose-deficient IgA1 was recently reported to be involved in the pathogenesis of HSPN, for which immunosuppressive drugs are considered key treatment. However, the involvement of immune cells in the development of HSPN remains unclear.METHODS: We compared gene expressions of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) among healthy controls (n = 10), IgAV/HSP patients (n = 21) and HSPN patients (n = 8), which required nephritis development within 3 months of IgAV/HSP onset. Immunohistochemistry analysis and flow cytometry were performed to assess renal biopsy specimens and PBMCs, respectively. Serum CX3CL1 levels were measured by ELISA.RESULTS: GNLY and GZMB expressions increased in HSPN patients, consistent with increased number of glomerular granulysin- and/or granzyme B-positive cells demonstrated by immunohistochemistry analysis. Additionally, circulating cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and natural killer (NK) cells were activated with the up-regulated surface expressions of human leucocyte antigen DR (HLA-DR) and CX3CR1 in HSPN patients with severe proteinuria. Renal biopsies demonstrated increased number of CD8+ cells and/or CD56+ cells and up-regulated expression of glomerular CX3CL1, a specific ligand for CX3CR1, along with increased serum CX3CL1 level.CONCLUSION: Activated CTLs and NK cells play roles in the development of nephritis in IgAV/HSP patients and can be used as novel biomarkers for HSPN.
Inflammation is strictly interconnected to anti-inflammatory mechanisms to maintain tissue homeostasis. The disruption of immune homeostasis can lead to acute and chronic inflammatory diseases, as cardiovascular, pulmonary, metabolic diseases and cancer. The knowledge of the mechanisms involved in the development and progression of these pathological conditions is important to find effective therapies. Granzyme B (GrB) is a serine protease produced by a variety of immune, non-immune and tumor cells. Apoptotic intracellular and multiple extracellular functions of GrB have been recently identified. Its capability of cleaving extracellular matrix (ECM) components, cytokines, cell receptors and clotting proteins, revealed GrB as a potential multifunctional pro-inflammatory molecule with the capability of contributing to the pathogenesis of different inflammatory conditions, including inflammaging, acute and chronic inflammatory diseases and cancer. Here we give an overview of recent data concerning GrB activity on multiple targets, potentially allowing this enzyme to regulate a wide range of crucial biological processes that play a role in the development, progression and/or severity of inflammatory diseases. We focus our attention on the promotion by GrB of perforin-dependent and perforin-independent (anoikis) apoptosis, inflammation derived by the activation of some cytokines belonging to the IL-1 cytokine family, ECM remodeling, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and fibrosis. A greater comprehension of the pathophysiological consequences of GrB-mediated multiple activities may favor the design of new therapies aim to inhibit different inflammatory pathological conditions such as inflammaging and age-related diseases, EMT and organ fibrosis.
Wnt signaling is crucial for proper development, tissue homeostasis and cell cycle regulation. A key role of Wnt signaling is the GSK3β-mediated stabilization of β-catenin, which mediates many of the critical roles of Wnt signaling. In addition, it was recently revealed that Wnt signaling can also act independently of β-catenin. In fact, Wnt mediated stabilization of proteins (Wnt/STOP) that involves an LRP6-DVL-dependent signaling cascade is required for proper regulation of mitosis and for faithful chromosome segregation in human somatic cells. We show that inhibition of Wnt/LRP6 signaling causes whole chromosome missegregation and aneuploidy by triggering abnormally increased microtubule growth rates in mitotic spindles, and this is mediated by increased GSK3β activity. We demonstrate that proper mitosis and maintenance of numerical chromosome stability requires continuous basal autocrine Wnt signaling that involves secretion of Wnts. Importantly, we identified Wnt10b as a Wnt ligand required for the maintenance of normal mitotic microtubule dynamics and for proper chromosome segregation. Thus, a self-maintaining Wnt10b-GSK3β-driven cellular machinery ensures the proper execution of mitosis and karyotype stability in human somatic cells.
Ustilago maydis is the causal agent of maize smut disease. During the colonization process, the fungus secretes effector proteins that suppress immune responses and redirect the host metabolism in favor of the pathogen. As effectors play a critical role during plant colonization, their identification and functional characterization are essential to understanding biotrophy and disease. Using biochemical, molecular, and transcriptomic techniques, we performed a functional characterization of the U. maydis effector Jasmonate/Ethylene signaling inducer 1 (Jsi1). Jsi1 interacts with several members of the plant corepressor family Topless/Topless related (TPL/TPR). Jsi1 expression in Zea mays and Arabidopsis thaliana leads to transcriptional induction of the ethylene response factor (ERF) branch of the jasmonate/ethylene (JA/ET) signaling pathway. In A. thaliana, activation of the ERF branch leads to biotrophic susceptibility. Jsi1 likely activates the ERF branch via an EAR (ET-responsive element binding-factor-associated amphiphilic repression) motif, which resembles EAR motifs from plant ERF transcription factors, that interacts with TPL/TPR proteins. EAR-motif-containing effector candidates were identified from different fungal species, including Magnaporthe oryzae, Sporisorium scitamineum, and Sporisorium reilianum. Interaction between plant TPL proteins and these effector candidates from biotrophic and hemibiotrophic fungi indicates the convergent evolution of effectors modulating the TPL/TPR corepressor hub.
BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer in the world. The present study is aimed at identifying hub genes associated with the progression of CRC.METHOD: The data of the patients with CRC were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and assessed by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses performed in R by WGCNA, several hub genes that regulate the mechanism of tumorigenesis in CRC were identified. Differentially expressed genes in the data sets GSE28000 and GSE42284 were used to construct a co-expression network for WGCNA. The yellow, black and blue modules associated with CRC level were filtered. Combining the co-expression network and the PPI network, 15 candidate hub genes were screened.RESULTS: After validation using the TCGA-COAD dataset, a total of 10 hub genes (MT1X, MT1G, MT2A, CXCL8, IL1B, CXCL5, CXCL11, IL10RA, GZMB, KIT) closely related to the progression of CRC were identified. The expressions of MT1G, CXCL8, IL1B, CXCL5, CXCL11 and GZMB in CRC tissues were higher than normal tissues (p-value < 0.05). The expressions of MT1X, MT2A, IL10RA and KIT in CRC tissues were lower than normal tissues (p-value < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: By combinating with a series of methods including GO enrichment analysis, KEGG pathway analysis, PPI network analysis and gene co-expression network analysis, we identified 10 hub genes that were associated with the progression of CRC.
The phytohormones salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid (JA), and ethylene (ET) are central regulators of biotic and abiotic stress responses in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we generated modular fluorescent protein-based reporter lines termed COLORFUL-PR1pro, -VSP2pro, and -PDF1.2apro. These feature hormone-controlled nucleus-targeted transcriptional output sensors and the simultaneous constitutive expression of spectrally separated nuclear reference and plasma membrane-localized reporters. This set-up allowed the study of cell-type specific hormone activities, cellular viability and microbial invasion. Moreover, we developed a software-supported high-throughput confocal microscopy imaging protocol for output quantification to resolve the spatio-temporal dynamics of respective hormonal signaling activities at single-cell resolution. Proof-of-principle analyses in A. thaliana leaves revealed distinguished hormone sensitivities in mesophyll, epidermal pavement and stomatal guard cells, suggesting cell type-specific regulatory protein activities. In plant-microbe interaction studies, we found that virulent and avirulent Hyaloperonospora arabidopsidis (Hpa) isolates exhibit different invasion dynamics and induce spatio-temporally distinct hormonal activity signatures. On the cellular level, these hormone-controlled reporter signatures demarcate the nascent sites of Hpa entry and progression, and highlight initiation, transduction and local containment of immune signals.
Lysozyme is an important component of the innate immune system. It functions by hydrolyzing the peptidoglycan (PG) layer of bacteria. The human pathogen Listeria monocytogenes is intrinsically lysozyme resistant. The peptidoglycan N-deacetylase PgdA and O-acetyltransferase OatA are two known factors contributing to its lysozyme resistance. Furthermore, it was shown that the absence of components of an ABC transporter, referred to here as EslABC, leads to reduced lysozyme resistance. How its activity is linked to lysozyme resistance is still unknown. To investigate this further, a strain with a deletion in eslB, coding for a membrane component of the ABC transporter, was constructed in L. monocytogenes strain 10403S. The eslB mutant showed a 40-fold reduction in the MIC to lysozyme. Analysis of the PG structure revealed that the eslB mutant produced PG with reduced levels of O-acetylation. Using growth and autolysis assays, we showed that the absence of EslB manifests in a growth defect in media containing high concentrations of sugars and increased endogenous cell lysis. A thinner PG layer produced by the eslB mutant under these growth conditions might explain these phenotypes. Furthermore, the eslB mutant had a noticeable cell division defect and formed elongated cells. Microscopy analysis revealed that an early cell division protein still localized in the eslB mutant, indicating that a downstream process is perturbed. Based on our results, we hypothesize that EslB affects the biosynthesis and modification of the cell wall in L. monocytogenes and is thus important for the maintenance of cell wall integrity.IMPORTANCE The ABC transporter EslABC is associated with the intrinsic lysozyme resistance of Listeria monocytogenes However, the exact role of the transporter in this process and in the physiology of L. monocytogenes is unknown. Using different assays to characterize an eslB deletion strain, we found that the absence of EslB affects not only lysozyme resistance but also endogenous cell lysis, cell wall biosynthesis, cell division, and the ability of the bacterium to grow in media containing high concentrations of sugars. Our results indicate that EslB is, by means of a yet-unknown mechanism, an important determinant for cell wall integrity in L. monocytogenes.
BACKGROUND: The Drosophila melanogaster mutant white-mottled is a well-established model for position-effect variegation (PEV). Transposition of the euchromatic white gene into the vicinity of the pericentric heterochromatin caused variegated expression of white due to heterochromatin spreading. The establishment of the euchromatin-heterochromatin boundary and spreading of silencing is regulated by mutually exclusive histone modifications, i.e. the methylations of histone H3 at lysine 9 and lysine 4. Demethylation of H3K4, catalysed by lysine-specific demethylase LSD1, is required for subsequent methylation of H3K9 to establish heterochromatin. LSD1 is therefore essential for heterochromatin formation and spreading. We asked whether drug-mediated inhibition of LSD affects the expression of white and if this induced change can be transmitted to those generations that have never been exposed to the triggering signal, i.e. transgenerational epigenetic inheritance.RESULTS: We used the lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1)-inhibitor Tranylcypromine to investigate its effect on eye colour expression in consecutive generations by feeding the parental and F1 generations of the Drosophila melanogaster mutant white-mottled. Quantitative Western blotting revealed that Tranylcypromine inhibits H3K4-demethylation both in vitro in S2 cells as well as in embryos when used as feeding additive. Eye colour expression in male flies was determined by optical measurement of pigment extracts and qRT-PCR of white gene expression. Flies raised in the presence of Tranylcypromine and its solvent DMSO showed increased eye pigment expression. Beyond that, eye pigment expression was also affected in consecutive generations including F3, which is the first generation without contact with the inhibitor.CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that feeding of Tranylcypromine and DMSO caused desilencing of white in treated flies of generation F1. Consecutive generations, raised on standard food without further supplements, are also affected by the drug-induced alteration of histone modifications. Although eye pigment expression eventually returned to the basal state, the observed long-lasting effect points to a memory capacity of previous epigenomes. Furthermore, our results indicate that food compounds potentially affect chromatin modification and hence gene expression and that the alteration is putatively inherited not only parentally but transgenerationally.
IMPORTIN-α3/MOS6 (MODIFIER OF SNC1, 6) is one of nine importin-α isoforms in Arabidopsis that recruit nuclear localization signal-containing cargo proteins to the nuclear import machinery. IMP-α3/MOS6 is required genetically for full autoimmunity of the nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat immune receptor mutant snc1 (suppressor of npr1-1, constitutive 1) and MOS6 also contributes to basal disease resistance. Here, we investigated the contribution of the other importin-α genes to both types of immune responses, and we analyzed potential interactions of all importin-α isoforms with SNC1. By using reverse-genetic analyses in Arabidopsis and protein-protein interaction assays in Nicotiana benthamiana, we provide evidence that among the nine α-importins in Arabidopsis, IMP-α3/MOS6 is the main nuclear transport receptor of SNC1, and that IMP-α3/MOS6 is required selectively for autoimmunity of snc1 and basal resistance to mildly virulent Pseudomonas syringae in Arabidopsis.
Author information:(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450052, People's Republic of China.(2)Biotherapy Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450052, People's Republic of China.(3)School of Medical Sciences, The Key Laboratory of Thoracic Tumor of Zhengzhou City, Zhengzhou 450052, People's Republic of China.(#)Contributed equally
The role of natural killer (NK) cells in the liver as first-line post infectionem (p.i.) effectors against blood-stage malaria and their responsiveness to protective vaccination is poorly understood. Here, we investigate the effect of vaccination on NK cell-associated genes induced in the liver by blood-stage malaria of Plasmodium chabaudi. Female Balb/c mice were vaccinated at weeks 3 and 1 before being infected with 106P. chabaudi-parasitized erythrocytes. Genes preferentially expressed by NK cells were investigated in livers of vaccination-protected and non-protected mice on days 0, 1, 4, 8, and 11 p.i. using microarrays, qRT-PCR, and chromosome landscape analysis. Blood-stage malaria induces expression of specific genes in the liver at different phases of infection, i.e., Itga1 in expanding liver-resident NK (lrNK) cells, Itga2 in immigrating conventional NK (cNK) cells; Eomes and Tbx21 encoding transcription factors; Ncr1, Tnfsf10, Prf1, Gzma, Gzmb, Gzmc, Gzmm, and Gzmk encoding cytolytic effectors; natural killer gene complex (NKC)-localized genes encoding the NK cell receptors KLRG1, KLRK1, KLRAs1, 2, 5, 7, KLRD1, KLRC1, KLRC3, as well as the three receptors KLRB1A, KLRB1C, KLRB1F and their potential ligands CLEC2D and CLEC2I. Vaccination enhances this malaria-induced expression of genes, but impairs Gzmm expression, accelerates decline of Tnfsf10 and Clec2d expression, whereas it accelerates increased expression of Clec2i, taking a very similar time course as that of genes encoding plasma membrane proteins of erythroblasts, whose malaria-induced extramedullary generation in the liver is known to be accelerated by vaccination. Collectively, vaccination reshapes the response of the liver NK cell compartment to blood-stage malaria. Particularly, the malaria-induced expansion of lrNK cells peaking on day 4 p.i. is highly significantly (p < 0.0001) reduced by enhanced immigration of peripheral cNK cells, and KLRB1F:CLEC2I interactions between NK cells and erythroid cells facilitate extramedullary erythroblastosis in the liver, thus critically contributing to vaccination-induced survival of otherwise lethal blood-stage malaria of P. chabaudi.
We investigated whether serum granzyme B (GrB) can reflect the inflammatory burden such as cross-sectional disease activity and organ-specific involvement in immunosuppressive drug-naïve patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis (AAV). Seventy-eight immunosuppressive drug-naïve patients with AAV were included in this study. At the time of the first classification, whole blood was obtained from each patient and sera was immediately isolated and stored at - 80℃. On the day of the blood sampling, we performed routine laboratory tests including antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody tests and collected both clinical and laboratory data. AAV-specific indices included Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score (BVAS) and Five-Factor Score (FFS). The median age of patients with AAV was 62 years and 26 patients were men. Serum GrB was not associated with the cross-sectional BVAS; however, patients with serum GrB positivity exhibited higher frequencies of otorhinolaryngological manifestation than those without (p=0.037). When serum GrB levels were compared after dividing the patients into two groups based on the presence of organ-specific involvement, patients with pulmonary involvement exhibited a significantly higher serum GrB than those without (p=0.042). On the other hand, patients with renal involvement showed a significantly lower serum GrB than those without (p=0.023). In addition, serum GrB was inversely correlated with the cross-sectional FFS (r=-0.249, p=0.028). Even though serum GrB could not reflect the inflammatory burden of AAV, serum GrB was associated with otorhinolaryngological, pulmonary, and renal involvement in immunosuppressive drug-naïve patients with AAV.
OBJECTIVES: Tumor necrosis receptor super family (TNFRSF) plays an important role in regulating the function of CD8+ T cells. In this study, we explored the clinical significance and immune profile of TNFRSF9+ CD8+ T cells in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC).METHODS: The infiltration of immune cells was determined by immunohistochemistry in ZS cohort from our hospital and their prognostic value was further determined by Cox regression. Functional status of CD8+ T cells in ccRCC was determined by flow cytometry in 29 fresh tumor samples. In silico analysis on a TCGA cohort and other datasets was performed to further demonstrate our findings.RESULTS: High TNFRSF9+ CD8+ T cells infiltration was associated with inferior overall survival in ZS cohort (p = .0016) and TCGA-KIRC cohort (p = .018). TNFRSF9+ CD8+ T cells expressed higher exhaustion markers (PD-1, TIM-3, CTLA-4, and TIGIT), and effector markers (IFN-γ, GZMB, CD107a, and Ki-67), than their TNFRSF9 negative counterparts. In silico analysis indicated the expression of TNFRSF9 was significantly correlated with IFNG, GZMK, MKI-67, PDCD1, HAVCR2, TIGIT, and CTLA-4 in CD8+ T cells. However, higher TNFRSF9 signature was correlated with larger tumor size shrinkage (p = .003) and better progression-free survival (p = .012) in patients treated with nivolumab but not everolimus.CONCLUSION: TNFRSF9+ CD8+ T cells, which possessed both exhaustion and effector phenotype, were identified as an adverse prognosticator in ccRCC. These cells enrichment was associated with better immunotherapy response which indicated these cells potentially be crucial in immunotherapy.
Whole chromosome instability (W-CIN) is a hallmark of human cancer and contributes to the evolvement of aneuploidy. W-CIN can be induced by abnormally increased microtubule plus end assembly rates during mitosis leading to the generation of lagging chromosomes during anaphase as a major form of mitotic errors in human cancer cells. Here, we show that loss of the tumor suppressor genes TP53 and TP73 can trigger increased mitotic microtubule assembly rates, lagging chromosomes, and W-CIN. CDKN1A, encoding for the CDK inhibitor p21CIP1, represents a critical target gene of p53/p73. Loss of p21CIP1 unleashes CDK1 activity which causes W-CIN in otherwise chromosomally stable cancer cells. Consequently, induction of CDK1 is sufficient to induce abnormal microtubule assembly rates and W-CIN. Vice versa, partial inhibition of CDK1 activity in chromosomally unstable cancer cells corrects abnormal microtubule behavior and suppresses W-CIN. Thus, our study shows that the p53/p73 - p21CIP1 tumor suppressor axis, whose loss is associated with W-CIN in human cancer, safeguards against chromosome missegregation and aneuploidy by preventing abnormally increased CDK1 activity.
INTRODUCTION: Breast cancer is one of the leading cause of cancer deaths in women. Metastasis in BC is caused by immunosurveillance deficiency, such NK cell maturation, low NK activity and decreasing cytotoxicity. This study was performed to improve activating receptors and cytotoxicity of NK cells using interleukins (ILs).METHODS: Human recombinant IL-2, -15, and -18 were used to induce NK cells. We measured the activating and inhibiting receptors, proliferation activity of NK cells, and the cytotoxicity of NK cells on BC cells (MCF7). The effects of ILs were tested on the NK cell receptors CD314, CD158a and CD107a with flowcytometry, proliferation at various incubation times with 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxy methoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium (MTS) assay and concentrations of TNF-α and IFN-γ by NK cells with ELISA.RESULTS: ILs increased NK cell receptor levels (CD314, CD158a, and CD107a) at 24 hours of incubation. ILs increased NK cell viability, which increased with longer incubation. Moreover, ILs-induced NK cells inhibited proliferation in MCF7 cells, as well as increased TNF-α, IFN-γ, PRF1 and GzmB secretion.CONCLUSION: IL-2, IL-15, and IL-18 improved activating receptors and proliferation of NK cells. IL-induced NK cells increased TNF-α, IFN-γ, PRF1 and GzmB secretion and cytotoxic activity on BC cells. High NK cell numbers increased BC cell growth inhibition.
Filamentous fungal cells, unlike yeasts, fuse during vegetative growth. The orthologs of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase Fus3 and transcription factor Ste12 are commonly involved in the regulation of cell fusion. However, the specific regulatory mechanisms underlying cell fusion in filamentous fungi have not been revealed. In the present study, we identified the novel protein FsiA as an AoFus3- and AoSte12-interacting protein in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae. The expression of AonosA and cell fusion-related genes decreased upon fsiA deletion and increased with fsiA overexpression, indicating that FsiA is a positive regulator of cell fusion. In addition, the induction of cell fusion-related genes by fsiA overexpression was also observed in the Aoste12 deletion mutant, indicating that FsiA can induce the cell fusion-related genes in an AoSte12-independent manner. Surprisingly, the fsiA and Aoste12 double deletion mutant exhibited higher cell fusion efficiency and increased mRNA levels of the cell fusion-related genes as compared to the fsiA single deletion mutant, which revealed that AoSte12 represses the cell fusion-related genes in the fsiA deletion mutant. Taken together, our data demonstrate that FsiA activates the cell fusion-related genes by suppressing the negative function of AoSte12 as well as by an AoSte12-independent mechanism.
The mechanism exhausting CD8+ T cells is not completely clear against tumors. Literature has demonstrated that cigarette smoking disables the immunological activity, so we propose nicotine is able to exhaust CD8+ T cells. The CD8+ T cells from healthy volunteers with and without cigarette smoking and the capacity of CD8+ T cells against tumor cells were investigated. RNAseq was used to investigate the gene profiling expression in CD8+ T cells. Meanwhile, small RNAseq was also used to search novel microRNAs involved in the exhaustion of CD8+ T cells. The effect of nicotine exhausting CD8+ T cells was investigated in vitro and in the humanized tumor xenografts in vivo. We found that CD8+ T cells were able to reduce cell viability in lung cancer HCC827 and A549 cells, that secreted granzyme B, but CD8+ T cells from the healthy cigarette smokers lost anti-HCC827 effect. Moreover, nicotine suppressed the anti-HCC827 effect of CD8+ T cells. RNAseq revealed lower levels of IL2RB and GZMB in the exhausted CD8+ T cells. We identified that miR-629-5p was increased by nicotine, that targeted IL2RB. Transfection of miR-629-5p mimic reduced IL2RB and GZMB levels. We further validated that nicotine reduced granzyme B levels using a nuclear imaging technique, and demonstrated that nicotine exhausted peripheral blood mononuclear cells against HCC827 growth in the humanized tumor xenografts. This study demonstrated that nicotine exhausted CD8+ T cells against HCC827 cells through increasing miR-629-5p to suppress IL2RB.
This study aimed to clarify predictive biomarkers of mild and severe ocular complications of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) by examining the cytokines in tears. In 121 chronic-phase SJS/TEN eyes, cytokines in tear samples collected using Schirmer test strips were measured, and ocular sequelae severity was evaluated using an Ocular Surface Grading Score (OSGS) involving 7 components (conjunctivalization, neovascularization, opacification, keratinization, symblepharon, and upper/lower conjunctival-sac shortening), with findings categorized into grades 0-3 (maximum total OSGS: 21). Changes in cytokines between the mild and severe groups (mild: total OSGS of 10 or less, severe: total OSGS of 11 or more), and changes between SJS/TEN cases with and without each of the 7 components, were compared. In the severe group, there was significant upregulation of interleukin (IL)-8 (P < 0.01) and Granzyme B (GrzB) (P < 0.05). IL-8 was significantly upregulated in eyes with conjunctivalization, neovascularization, or opacification, GrzB was upregulated in eyes with keratinization, interferon-γ-inducible protein 10 (IP-10) was downregulated in eyes with conjunctivalization or neovascularization, and IL-1α was upregulated in eyes with opacification (all: P < 0.05). IL-8 and IP-10 was involved in conjunctivalization and neovascularization, while GrzB was involved in keratinization. IL-8 and GrzB in tears may reflect SJS/TEN-related ocular sequelae severity.
Personalized cancer vaccines are a promising approach for inducing T cell immunity to tumor neoantigens. Using a self-assembling nanoparticle vaccine that links neoantigen peptides to a Toll-like receptor 7/8 agonist (SNP-7/8a), we show how the route and dose alter the magnitude and quality of neoantigen-specific CD8+ T cells. Intravenous vaccination (SNP-IV) induced a higher proportion of TCF1+PD-1+CD8+ T cells as compared to subcutaneous immunization (SNP-SC). Single-cell RNA sequencing showed that SNP-IV induced stem-like genes (Tcf7, Slamf6, Xcl1) whereas SNP-SC enriched for effector genes (Gzmb, Klrg1, Cx3cr1). Stem-like cells generated by SNP-IV proliferated and differentiated into effector cells upon checkpoint blockade, leading to superior antitumor response as compared to SNP-SC in a therapeutic model. The duration of antigen presentation by dendritic cells controlled the magnitude and quality of CD8+ T cells. These data demonstrate how to optimize antitumor immunity by modulating vaccine parameters for specific generation of effector or stem-like CD8+ T cells.
Erratum in    Front Immunol. 2020 Nov 18;11:615755.
BACKGROUND: The prognosis of patients with relapsed or progressive B cell (CD20+) non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL), including Burkitt lymphoma (BL), is dismal due to chemoradiotherapy resistance. Novel therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. N-820 is a fusion protein of N-803 (formerly known as ALT-803) to four single-chains of rituximab. This agent has tri-specific binding activity to CD20 and enhanced antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity.METHODS: We investigated the anti-tumor combinatorial effects of N-820 with ex vivo expanded peripheral blood natural killer (exPBNK) cells against rituximab-sensitive and rituximab-resistant CD20+ BL in vitro using cytoxicity assays and in vivo using human BL xenografted NOD/SCID/IL2rγnull (NSG) mice. We also investigated the cytokines/chemokines/growth factors released using ELISA and multiplex assay. Gene expression changes were examined using real-time PCR arrays.RESULTS: N-820 significantly enhanced the expression of NK activating receptors (p<0.001) and the proliferation of exPBNK cells with enhanced Ki67 expression and Stat5 phosphorylation (p<0.001). N-820 significantly enhanced the secretion of cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors including GM-CSF, RANTES, MIP-1B (p<0.001) from exPBNK cells as compared with the combination of rituximab+N-803. Importantly, N-820 significantly enhanced in vitro cytotoxicity (p<0.001) of exPBNK with enhanced granzyme B and IFN-γ release (p<0.001) against BL. Gene expression profiles in exPBNK stimulated by N-820+Raji-2R showed enhanced transcription of CXCL9, CXCL1, CSF2, CSF3, GZMB, and IFNG. Moreover, N-820 combined with exPBNK significantly inhibited rituximab-resistant BL growth (p<0.05) and extended the survival (p<0.05) of BL xenografted NSG mice.CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide the rationale for the development of a clinical trial of N-820 alone or in combination with endogenous or ex vivo expanded NK cells in patients with CD20+ B-NHL failing prior rituximab containing chemoimmunotherapy regimens.
Animal behavior is guided by the brain. Therefore, adaptations of brain structure and function are essential for animal survival, and each species differs in such adaptations. The brain of one individual may even differ between life stages, for instance, as adaptation to the divergent needs of larval and adult life of holometabolous insects. All such differences emerge during development, but the cellular mechanisms behind the diversification of brains between taxa and life stages remain enigmatic. In this study, we investigated holometabolous insects in which larvae differ dramatically from the adult in both behavior and morphology. As a consequence, the central complex, mainly responsible for spatial orientation, is conserved between species at the adult stage but differs between larvae and adults of one species as well as between larvae of different taxa. We used genome editing and established transgenic lines to visualize cells expressing the conserved transcription factor retinal homeobox, thereby marking homologous genetic neural lineages in both the fly Drosophila melanogaster and the beetle Tribolium castaneum. This approach allowed us for the first time to compare the development of homologous neural cells between taxa from embryo to the adult. We found complex heterochronic changes including shifts of developmental events between embryonic and pupal stages. Further, we provide, to our knowledge, the first example of sequence heterochrony in brain development, where certain developmental steps changed their position within the ontogenetic progression. We show that through this sequence heterochrony, an immature developmental stage of the central complex gains functionality in Tribolium larvae.
It is well known that consumption of a high-fat diet (HFD) promotes intestinal inflammation despite little being known about causative factors. Recent evidence implicates dietary peroxidized lipids (POLs), which are typically formed from the oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acid double bonds, as potential contributors due to their enrichment in HFDs, ability to be formed during gastrointestinal transit, and immunogenic and cytotoxic properties. 13-HPODE, the most common dietary POL, demonstrates pro-inflammatory activity in a variety of immune cells, especially Natural Killer (NK) cells whose role in mediating intestinal inflammation remains unclear. Therefore, we set out to investigate how 13-HPODE and other POLs modulate NK-cell activity in the context of intestinal inflammation. We not only found that NK cells fully decompose exogenous 13-HPODE, but that direct treatment stimulates TNF-α and MCP1 expression as well as Granzyme B (GZMB) secretion in a dose-dependent manner. Similar results were observed upon incubation of NK cells with oxidized, but not-unoxidized, low-density lipoproteins. Secretory products from 13-HPODE-treated NK cells were able to induce Caco2 intestinal cell inflammation in the same way as exogenous GZMB with greater sensitivity in undifferentiated compared to differentiated cells. Results were recapitulated in 13-HPODE-fed mice, demonstrating both spatial and temporal patterns of elevated GZMB expression that favored acute treatments in the distal intestinal epithelium. Collectively, our results suggest that that HFD-derived POLs, like 13-HPODE, potentially contribute to intestinal inflammation by stimulating the secretion of pro-inflammatory granzymes by resident NK cells, ultimately revealing a more direct role for diet in modulating gut homeostasis and the immune environment.
This study aimed to identify prognostic epigenetic biomarkers for colon cancer (CC). Methylation and mRNA expression in CC samples with clinical characteristics that corresponded to those in The Cancer Genome Atlas were analyzed. Differentially methylated genes (DMGs) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened between matched tumor and nontumor tissues. Among the 415 DEGs and DMGs that significantly correlated between cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) methylation and gene expression, unc-5 netrin receptor C (UNC5C), solute carrier family 35 member F (SLC35F)1, Ly6/Neurotoxin (LYNX)1, stathmin (STMN)2, slit guidance ligand (SLIT)3, cell adhesion molecule L1 like (CHL1), CAP-Gly domain containing linker protein family member 4 (CLIP4), transmembrane protein (TMEM) 255A, granzyme B (GZMB), and brain expressed X-Linked (BEX)1 were promising epigenetic biomarkers. Prediction was more accurate when models were based on the expression and/or methylation of GZMB rather than clinical stage. Comparisons of tissues with high or low GZMB expression significantly associated the DEGs with natural killer-mediated cytotoxicity, cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, and chemokine signaling pathways. From among the 10 epigenetic biomarkers, GZMB might serve as a tumor suppressor and function in several immune-related pathways in CC. Prognostic models based on GZMB expression and/or methylation would be significant for patients with CC.
BACKGROUND: Lung inflammation plays a vital role in the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but the characteristics of the inflammatory process remain unclear. There is growing interest in the role of granzyme B (GzmB) because CD8+ T cells can induce apoptosis of target cells by releasing GzmB, which in turn may cause tissue injury and remodeling. However, GzmB is also expressed by regulatory cells, which are able to suppress CD8+ T cell. The role of GzmB+ cells needs to be defined in COPD.METHODS: GzmB+ and CD8+ cells on alveolar wall of surgically resected lungs of microscopically classified 12 nonsmoking control, 12 panlobular emphysema (PLE) and 30 centrilobular emphysema (CLE) subjects were localized by immunohistochemical method. Positively stained cells on alveolar wall were counted and length of corresponding alveolar wall was measured. The results were expressed as mean number of positively stained cells per mm of alveolar wall in each subject.RESULTS: The number of GzmB+ and CD8+ cells on alveolar wall of CLE was greater than that of control or PLE subjects (p<0.05 and p<0.001, respectively). There was a positive relationship between the number of alveolar GzmB+ cells and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) (r=0.610, p=0.003) in CLE subjects. The number of alveolar GzmB+ cells progressively decreased with decline of FEV1.CONCLUSION: Our finding that number of alveolar GzmB+ cells was associated with FEV1 suggests that GzmB+ cells might have protective role in the progression of lung destruction and airflow limitation in CLE, which is the predominant emphysema subtype of COPD.
Pro-angiogenic Vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs) exert immunosuppressive functions on some immune cells by interacting with VEGF receptors. Blocking the VEGF/VEGFR pathway could reverse the tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment to some degree. We recently demonstrated that the anti-angiogenic VEGF isoform VEGF165b, similar to other anti-angiogenic agents, inhibit the accumulation immunosuppressive cells such as Tregs and MDSCs. However, whether VEGF165b affects the functions of immune effector cells remain unclear. Here, NK92 cell line was utilized as an immune effector cell model. Our results verified that NK92 cells endogenously express VEGF165 and VEGFR1. Further investigation showed that NK92 treatment with VEGF165b augments its killing ability against human K562 leukemia cells by upregulating perforin and granzyme B through the VEGFR1-PLC pathway, whereas VEGF165b had no impact on the proliferation of NK92 cells in vitro. The results of this study improve our understanding of the immunomodulatory function of VEGF165b, which may help in enhancing the efficacy of NK92-based cancer immunotherapy.
T cell immunotherapies have shown great promise in patients with advanced cancer disease, revolutionizing treatment. T cell cytotoxicity is crucial in its efficacy, therefore developing ex vivo methods testing tumor and T cell interactions is pivotal. Increasing efforts have been made in developing co-culture assays with sophisticated materials and platforms aiming to mimic the tumor microenvironment (TME), but its complexity makes it difficult to develop the ideal model. In this study, we developed a simple co-culture assay, reproducible in any lab, but respecting the multicellular nature of the TME. Our goal is to combine in a single assay well-established techniques such as a luciferase assay for target cell viability analysis, a CD107a degranulation assay, and multicolor flow cytometry for the detection of cytokines and cytotoxicity markers. Cell suspensions of whole spleens and tumors containing splenic or tumor-infiltrating effector T cells of mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) or CT26 colon carcinoma tumors treated with radiation alone or in combination with immunotherapies were used for co-culture. LLC and CT26 cell lines transduced with the firefly luciferase gene were used as target cells. We demonstrated that splenocytes and tumor-infiltrating T cells derived from mice treated with combination therapy were able to kill approximately 50% of target cells after 48 h of co-culture. This effect was tumor cell-specific and dependent on CD8+ T cells evidenced by in vitro CD8+ T cell depletion. Flow cytometry demonstrated increased expression of CD107a and production of granzyme B, IFNγ, and TNFα by CD8+ T cells. Our co-culture assay is therefore suitable as proof of principle for in vivo therapeutic studies testing immunotherapies, and specifically to assess the involvement of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells in treatment response in LLC and CT26 tumor models. We also propose this assay as an ex vivo platform for high-throughput screening of immunomodulating agents to be tested in these two murine tumor models. This assay can be adapted to other tumor models after optimizations.
BACKGROUND: Two reference strains have been sequenced from the mushroom Coprinopsis cinerea, monokaryon Okayama 7/#130 (OK130) and the self-compatible homokaryon AmutBmut. An adenine-auxotrophy in OK130 (ade8-1) and a para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA)-auxotrophy in AmutBmut (pab1-1) offer selection markers for transformations. Of these two strains, homokaryon AmutBmut had been transformed before to PABA-prototrophy and with the bacterial hygromycin resistance marker hph, respectively.RESULTS: Gene ade8 encodes a bifunctional enzyme with an N-terminal glycinamide ribonucleotide synthase (GARS) and a C-terminal aminoimidazole ribonucleotide synthase (AIRS) domain required for steps 2 and 5 in the de novo biosynthesis of purines, respectively. In OK130, a missense mutation in ade8-1 rendered residue N231 for ribose recognition by the A loop of the GARS domain into D231. The new ade8 + vector pCcAde8 complements the auxotrophy of OK130 in transformations. Transformation rates with pCcAde8 in single-vector and co-transformations with ade8 +-selection were similarly high, unlike for trp1 + plasmids which exhibit suicidal feedback-effects in single-vector transformations with complementation of tryptophan synthase defects. As various other plasmids, unselected pCcAde8 helped in co-transformations of trp1 strains with a trp1 +-selection vector to overcome suicidal effects by transferred trp1 +. Co-transformation rates of pCcAde8 in OK130 under adenine selection with nuclear integration of unselected DNA were as high as 80% of clones. Co-transformation rates of expressed genes reached 26-42% for various laccase genes and up to 67% with lcc9 silencing vectors. The bacterial gene hph can also be used as another, albeit less efficient, selection marker for OK130 transformants, but with similarly high co-transformation rates. We further show that the pab1-1 defect in AmutBmut is due to a missense mutation which changed the conserved PIKGT motif for chorismate binding in the C-terminal PabB domain to PIEGT in the mutated 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate synthase.CONCLUSIONS: ade8-1 and pab1-1 auxotrophic defects in C. cinerea reference strains OK130 and AmutBmut for complementation in transformation are described. pCcAde8 is a new transformation vector useful for selection in single and co-transformations of the sequenced monokaryon OK130 which was transformed for the first time. The bacterial gene hph can also be used as an additional selection marker in OK130, making in combination with ade8 + successive rounds of transformation possible.
BACKGROUND: NF-κB is a key link between inflammation and cancer. Previous studies of NF-κB have largely focused on tumor cells, and the intrinsic function of NF-κB in T cells in tumor development and response to immunotherapy is largely unknown. We aimed at testing the hypothesis that NF-κB1 (p50) activation in T cells underlies human colon cancer immune escape and human cancer non-response to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.METHODS: We screened NF-κB activation in human colon carcinoma and used mouse models to determine p50 function in tumor cells and immune cells. RNA-Seq was used to identify p50 target genes. p50 binding to target gene promoters were determined by electrophoresis mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation. A p50 activation score was generated from gene expression profiling and used to link p50 activation to T-cell activation and function pre-nivolumab and post-nivolumab immunotherapy in human patients with cancer.RESULTS: p50 is the dominant form of NF-κB that is highly activated in immune cells in the human colorectal carcinoma microenvironment and neighboring non-neoplastic colon epithelial cells. Tumor cell intrinsic p50 signaling and T-cell intrinsic p50 signaling exert opposing functions in tumor growth control in vivo. Deleting Nfkb1 in tumor cells increased whereas in T cells decreased tumor growth in preclinical mouse models. Gene expression profiling identified Gzmb as a p50 target in T cells. p50 binds directly to a previously uncharacterized κB sequence at the Gzmb promoter in T cells, resulting in repression of Gzmb expression in tumor-infiltrating cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) to induce a dysfunctional CTL phenotype to promote tumor immune escape. p50 activation is inversely correlated with both GZMB expression and T-cell tumor infiltration in human colorectal carcinoma. Furthermore, nivolumab immunotherapy decreased p50 activation and increased GZMB expression in human patients with melanoma.CONCLUSIONS: Inflammation activates p50 that binds to the Gzmb promoter to repress granzyme B expression in T cells, resulting in CTL dysfunction to confer tumor immune escape and decreased response to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy.
Objective: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a high heterogeneity cancer. The identification of genomic aberrations that drive each of the TNBC subtypes may predict the prognosis of patients with TNBC and provide novel therapeutic strategies in clinical practice. This study focuses on the transcriptome-based gene expression of TNBC and aims to generate comprehensive gene co-expression networks correlated with the immune-related subtype of TNBC. Methods: The transcriptome profiles of 107 female patients with TNBC were analyzed. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to construct related networks and to sort hub-genes associated with the survival of TNBC patients. The data of the transcriptional expression, genomic alteration, survival status, and tumor immune microenvironment, which associated with hub-genes, were extracted, retrieved, and analyzed from Oncomine, UALCAN, TCGA, starBase, Kaplan-Meier Plotter, cBioPortal, and TIMER databases. Results: Immune-related hub-genes, including BIRC3, BTN3A1, CSF2RB, GIMAP7, GZMB, HCLS1, LCP2, and SELL, were found to be associated with clinical features of TNBC evaluated by WGCNA. These hub-genes belonged to the immunomodulatory subtype of TNBC and were upregulated in the TNBC cells. The protein expression of eight immune-related hub-genes was further confirmed to be upregulated in TNBC/CD8+ tissues detected by immunohistochemical staining. Survival analysis revealed that overexpression of eight immune-related hub-genes was in favor of the survival of patients with TNBC. Moreover, a positive correlation between eight immune-related hub-genes and immune cell infiltration was observed in TNBC patients. Furthermore, checkpoint inhibitor genes such as PD-L1, PD-1, and CTLA4 were more enrichment in the immunomodulatory subtype of TNBC and the expression of PD-L1, PD-1, and CTLA4 was positively correlated with eight immune-related hub-genes in the breast cancer dataset of TCGA. Conclusions: Eight immune-related hub-genes were identified to be molecular signatures in the immunomodulatory subtype of TNBC, which may provide therapeutic targets for the treatment of patients with breast cancer.
A comprehensive and standardized system to report lipid structures analyzed by MS is essential for the communication and storage of lipidomics data. Herein, an update on both the LIPID MAPS classification system and shorthand notation of lipid structures is presented for lipid categories Fatty Acyls (FA), Glycerolipids (GL), Glycerophospholipids (GP), Sphingolipids (SP), and Sterols (ST). With its major changes, i.e., annotation of ring double bond equivalents and number of oxygens, the updated shorthand notation facilitates reporting of newly delineated oxygenated lipid species as well. For standardized reporting in lipidomics, the hierarchical architecture of shorthand notation reflects the diverse structural resolution powers provided by mass spectrometric assays. Moreover, shorthand notation is expanded beyond mammalian phyla to lipids from plant and yeast phyla. Finally, annotation of atoms is included for the use of stable isotope-labeled compounds in metabolic labeling experiments or as internal standards. This update on lipid classification, nomenclature, and shorthand annotation for lipid mass spectra is considered a standard for lipid data presentation.
Chronic inflammation and impaired wound healing play important roles in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular diseases. Moreover, the aberrant secretion of proteases plays a critical role in pathological tissue remodeling in chronic inflammatory conditions. Human Granzymes (Granule secreted enzymes - Gzms) comprise a family of five (GzmA, B, H, K, M) cell-secreted serine proteases. Although each unique in function and substrate specificities, Gzms were originally thought to share redundant, intracellular roles in cytotoxic lymphocyte-induced cell death. However, an abundance of evidence has challenged this dogma. It is now recognized, that individual Gzms exhibit unique substrate repertoires and functions both intracellularly and extracellularly. In the extracellular milieu, Gzms contribute to inflammation, vascular dysfunction and permeability, reduced cell adhesion, release of matrix-sequestered growth factors, receptor activation, and extracellular matrix cleavage. Despite these recent findings, the non-cytotoxic functions of Gzms in the context of cardiovascular disease pathogenesis remain poorly understood. Minimally detected in tissues and bodily fluids of normal individuals, GzmB is elevated in patients with acute coronary syndromes, coronary artery disease, and myocardial infarction. Pre-clinical animal models have exemplified the importance of GzmB in atherosclerosis, aortic aneurysm, and cardiac fibrosis as animals deficient in GzmB exhibit reduced tissue remodeling, improved disease phenotypes and increased survival. Although a role for GzmB in cardiovascular disease is described, further work to elucidate the mechanisms that underpin the remaining human Gzms activity in cardiovascular disease is necessary. The present review provides a summary of the pre-clinical and clinical evidence, as well as emerging areas of research pertaining to Gzms in tissue remodeling and cardiovascular disease.
Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory skin condition manifested by T cell responses and characterized by preferential recurrence at previously inflamed sites upon withdrawal of treatment. The site-specific disease memory in psoriasis has been linked to CD8+CD103+ tissue-resident memory T cells (Trm) in the epidermis which were previously thought to only provide "frontline" protection against pathogens and immunosurveillance during cancer development. In this study, we correlated the presence of a subset of the Trm cells which are also CD49a+ with disease severity in human psoriatic lesions with acute and chronic disease. Using an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced murine model of psoriasiform dermatitis, we also investigated the level of CD49a+ Trm cells in acute, chronic and resolved psoriatic lesions. Investigation of clinical human samples showed that patient disease severity highly correlated with the numbers of epidermal CD49a+ Trm cells. Additionally, this subset of Trm cells was shown to persist in resolved lesions of murine psoriasiform dermatitis once clinical disease features had subsided. Importantly, these CD49a+ Trm cells showed significantly higher levels of granzyme B (GzmB) production compared to acute disease, suggesting a potential role of CD49a+ Trm cells for psoriatic re-occurrence in resolved patients. Better understanding of epidermal CD49a+ Trm cell activity is necessary for development of advanced treatment strategies for psoriasis to permit long-term, continuous disease control.
Membrane remodeling is a critical process for many membrane trafficking events, including clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Several molecular mechanisms for protein-induced membrane curvature have been described in some detail. Contrary, the effect that the physico-chemical properties of the membrane have on these processes is far less well understood. Here, we show that the membrane binding and curvature-inducing ENTH domain of epsin1 is regulated by phosphatidylserine (PS). ENTH binds to membranes in a PI(4,5)P2-dependent manner but only induces curvature in the presence of PS. On PS-containing membranes, the ENTH domain forms rigid homo-oligomers and assembles into clusters. Membrane binding and membrane remodeling can be separated by structure-to-function mutants. Such oligomerization mutants bind to membranes but do not show membrane remodeling activity. In vivo, they are not able to rescue defects in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) endocytosis in epsin knock-down cells. Together, these data show that the membrane lipid composition is important for the regulation of protein-dependent membrane deformation during clathrin-mediated endocytosis.
Erratum in    Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2021 Jul;65(1):121.
Background: Colorectal cancer is the third most deadly cancer among African Americans (AA). When compared to Caucasian Americans (CA), AA present with more advanced disease and lower survival rates. Here, we investigated if differences in tumor immunology could be contributive to disparities observed between these populations. Methods: We examined gene expression of tumor and non-tumor adjacent tissues from AA and CA by whole transcriptome sequencing, and generated scores for immune cell populations by NanoString. In addition, we utilized "The Cancer Genome Atlas" (TCGA) database from AA and CA as a validation cohort. Finally, we measured the secretion of cytokines characteristic of effector T helper cell (Th) subsets by ELISA using plasma from each AA and CA participant. Results: Colon tumors from AA patients showed significant fold-change increase in gene expression when compared to CA for FOXP3 (6.22 vs. 3.22), IL1B (103 vs. 11.4) and IL8 (220 vs. 28.9) (p < 0.05). In contrast, among CA we observed statistically higher gene expression of markers associated with antitumor activity such as GZMB (Granzyme B), IFNG and the immunotherapy targets PDL1 (CD274) and CTLA4 (p < 0.05). TCGA data validated our observed higher gene expression of GZMB and PDL1 in CA patients when compared to AA. Notably, our observations on immune cell populations show that AA tumors have significantly higher number of exhausted CD8+ cells (p < 0.01), mast cells (p < 0.02) and increased T regulatory cells when compared to CA. AA colon cancer patients differed from CA in cytokine production patterns in plasma (i.e., reduced IL-12). Conclusions: Our study demonstrates significant differences of the immunological profiles of colon tumors from AA compared to CA that suggest a deficiency of appropriate immune defense mechanisms in terms of gene expression, recruitment of immune cells and systemic secretion of cytokines. As such, these immune differences could be mitigated through population-specific therapeutic approaches.
Erratum in    J Immunother Cancer. 2020 Oct;8(2):
Granzyme B-expressing B cells have been shown to be an important regulatory B cell subset in humans. However, it is unclear which subpopulations of B cells express GZMB under normal conditions and which protocols effectively induce ex vivo expansion of GZMB+ B cells. We found that in the peripheral blood of normal individuals, plasmablasts were the major B cell subpopulation that expressed GZMB. However, when using an in vitro plasmablast differentiation protocol, we obtained only 2% GZMB+ B cells. Nevertheless, using an expansion mixture containing IL-21, anti-BCR, CpG oligodeoxynucleotide, CD40L, and IL-2, we were able to obtain more than 90% GZMB+ B cells after 3 d culture. GZMB+ B cells obtained through this protocol suppressed the proliferation of autologous and allogenic CD4+CD25- effector T cells. The suppressive effect of GZMB+ B cells was partially GZMB dependent and totally contact dependent but was not associated with an increase in effector T cell apoptosis or uptake of GZMB by effector T cells. Interestingly, we showed that GZMB produced by B cells promoted GZMB+ B cell proliferation in ERK1/2-dependent manner, facilitating GZMB+ B cell expansion. However, GZMB+ B cells tended to undergo apoptosis after prolonged stimulation, which may be considered a negative feedback mechanism to limit their uncontrolled expansion. Finally, we found that expanded GZMB+ B cells exhibited a regulatory phenotype and were enriched in CD307bhi, CD258hiCD72hi, and CD21loPD-1hi B cell subpopulations. Our study, to our knowledge, provides new insight into biology of GZMB+ B cells and an efficient method to expand GZMB+ B cells for future cell therapy applications.
The American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system is insufficiently prognostic for gastric cancer (GC) patients and complementary factors are in urgent need. Here we aimed to develop a comprehensive model, consisting of both immune signatures and cancer signaling molecules, which was expected to accurately improve survival prediction in non-metastatic gastric cancer (GC). We first validated the prognostic value of a combination of 18 immune features and 52 cancer-signaling molecules in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Then, their expression and distribution were analyzed in consecutive 1180 GC patients using immunohistochemistry. We developed and validated a novel protein-based prognostic classifier using CDH1, an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker, and five immune features (CD3, CD4, CD274, GZMB, and PAX5) by Cox regression model with group LASSO penalty. We observed significant differences in the overall survival of the high- and low-prognostic risk groups (66.8% VS 27.0%, P < .001). A combination of this classifier with age and pTNM stage had better prognostic value than pTNM alone. The model was further validated in both treatment-naive patients and those treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Moreover, GC patients with high-risk score exhibited a favorable prognosis to adjuvant chemotherapy. This integrated classifier could be automatically analyzed and effectively predict survival of GC patients and may provide a new clinically applicable strategy to identify patients who are more likely to benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy.
The Notch signalling pathway is involved in the development of several cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC). However, whether mutations in this pathway could alter the CRC immunophenotype remains unknown. Here, we investigated the relationship between Notch signalling pathway mutations and the tumour immune microenvironment by analysing gene expression data from the GSE108989 single T cell RNA sequencing data set and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data set. We found that Notch signalling pathway mutations were associated with an increased number of tumour-specific CD8+ T cells and decreased number of inhibitory regulatory T (Treg) cells, representing an enhanced anti-tumour response in the GSE108989 data set. In TCGA data set, we also found that Notch signalling pathway mutations were associated with enrichment of genes associated with immune activation pathways and higher expressions of PDCD1, GZMB and PRF1. Although Notch signalling pathway mutations did not affect the overall survival and disease-free survival of CRC patients, they were associated with earlier disease stages and lower rates of metastasis. These results demonstrated that Notch signalling pathway mutations can enhance anti-tumour immunity in CRC, as validated by the two data sets, suggesting that they may be promising biomarkers for immune checkpoint blockade therapies for CRC patients.
Camelina sativa is an emerging biotechnology oil crop. However, more information is needed regarding its innate lipid enzyme specificities. We have therefore characterized several triacylglycerol (TAG) producing enzymes by measuring in vitro substrate specificities using different combinations of acyl-acceptors (diacylglycerol, DAG) and donors. Specifically, C. sativa acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) 1 and 2 (which both use acyl-CoA as acyl donor) and phospholipid:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (PDAT, with phosphatidylcoline as acyl donor) were studied. The results show that the DGAT1 and DGAT2 specificities are complementary, with DGAT2 exhibiting a high specificity for acyl acceptors containing only polyunsaturated fatty acids (FAs), whereas DGAT1 prefers acyl donors with saturated and monounsaturated FAs. Furthermore, the combination of substrates that resulted in the highest activity for DGAT2, but very low activity for DGAT1, corresponds to TAG species previously shown to increase in C. sativa seeds with downregulated DGAT1. Similarly, the combinations of substrates that gave the highest PDAT1 activity were also those that produce the two TAG species (54:7 and 54:8 TAG) with the highest increase in PDAT overexpressing C. sativa seeds. Thus, the in vitro data correlate well with the changes in the overall fatty acid profile and TAG species in C. sativa seeds with altered DGAT1 and PDAT activity. Additionally, in vitro studies of C. sativa phosphatidycholine:diacylglycerol cholinephosphotransferase (PDCT), another activity involved in TAG biosynthesis, revealed that PDCT accepts substrates with different desaturation levels. Furthermore, PDCT was unable to use DAG with ricineoleyl groups, and the presence of this substrate also inhibited PDCT from using other DAG-moieties. This gives insights relating to previous in vivo studies regarding this enzyme.
Seeds were a key evolutionary innovation. These durable structures provide a concerted solution to two challenges on land: dispersal and stress. Lipid droplets (LDs) that act as nutrient storage reservoirs are one of the main cell-biological reasons for seed endurance. Although LDs are key structures in spermatophytes and are especially abundant in seeds, they are found across plants and algae, and increase during stress. Further, the proteins that underpin their form and function often have deep homologs. We propose an evolutionary scenario in which (i) the generation of LDs arose as a mechanism to mediate general drought and desiccation resilience, and (ii) the required protein framework was co-opted by spermatophytes for a seed-specific program.
Oomycetes include many devastating plant pathogens. Across oomycete diversity, plant-infecting lineages are interspersed by non-pathogenic ones. Unfortunately, our understanding of the evolution of lifestyle switches is hampered by a scarcity of data on the molecular biology of saprotrophic oomycetes, ecologically important primary colonizers of dead tissue that can serve as informative reference points for understanding the evolution of pathogens. Here, we established Salisapilia sapeloensis as a tractable system for the study of saprotrophic oomycetes. We generated multiple transcriptomes from S. sapeloensis and compared them with (i) 22 oomycete genomes and (ii) the transcriptomes of eight pathogenic oomycetes grown under 13 conditions. We obtained a global perspective on gene expression signatures of oomycete lifestyles. Our data reveal that oomycete saprotrophs and pathogens use similar molecular mechanisms for colonization but exhibit distinct expression patterns. We identify a S. sapeloensis-specific array and expression of carbohydrate-active enzymes and putative regulatory differences, highlighted by distinct expression levels of transcription factors. Salisapilia sapeloensis expresses only a small repertoire of candidates for virulence-associated genes. Our analyses suggest lifestyle-specific gene regulatory signatures and that, in addition to variation in gene content, shifts in gene regulatory networks underpin the evolution of oomycete lifestyles.
In various infections or vaccinations of mice or humans, reports of the persistence and the requirements for restimulation of the cytotoxic mediators granzyme B (GrB) and perforin (PRF) in CD8+ T cells have yielded disparate results. In this study, we examined the kinetics of PRF and GrB mRNA and protein expression after stimulation and associated changes in cytotoxic capacity in virus-specific memory cells in detail. In patients with controlled HIV or cleared respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) or influenza virus infections, all virus-specific CD8+ T cells expressed low PRF levels without restimulation. Following stimulation, they displayed similarly delayed kinetics for lytic protein expression, with significant increases occurring by days 1 to 3 before peaking on days 4 to 6. These increases were strongly correlated with, but were not dependent upon, proliferation. Incremental changes in PRF and GrB percent expression and mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) were highly correlated with increases in HIV-specific cytotoxicity. mRNA levels in HIV-specific CD8+ T-cells exhibited delayed kinetics after stimulation as with protein expression, peaking on day 5. In contrast to GrB, PRF mRNA transcripts were little changed over 5 days of stimulation (94-fold versus 2.8-fold, respectively), consistent with posttranscriptional regulation. Changes in expression of some microRNAs, including miR-17, miR-150, and miR-155, suggested that microRNAs might play a significant role in regulation of PRF expression. Therefore, under conditions of extremely low or absent antigen levels, memory virus-specific CD8+ T cells require prolonged stimulation over days to achieve maximal lytic protein expression and cytotoxic capacity.IMPORTANCE Antigen-specific CD8+ T cells play a major role in controlling most virus infections, primarily by perforin (PRF)- and granzyme B (GrB)-mediated apoptosis. There is considerable controversy regarding whether PRF is constitutively expressed, rapidly increased similarly to a cytokine, or delayed in its expression with more prolonged stimulation in virus-specific memory CD8+ T cells. In this study, the degree of cytotoxic capacity of virus-specific memory CD8+ T cells was directly proportional to the content of lytic molecules, which required antigenic stimulation over several days for maximal levels. This appeared to be modulated by increases in GrB transcription and microRNA-mediated posttranscriptional regulation of PRF expression. Clarifying the requirements for maximal cytotoxic capacity is critical to understanding how viral clearance might be mediated by memory cells and what functions should be induced by vaccines and immunotherapies.
Natural killer (NK) cells form immune synapses to ascertain the state of health of cells they encounter. If a target cell triggers NK cell cytotoxicity, lytic granules containing proteins including perforin and granzyme B, are secreted into the synaptic cleft inducing target cell death. Secretion of these proteins also occurs from activated cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) where they have recently been reported to complex with thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) in specialized structures termed supramolecular attack particles (SMAPs). Here, using an imaging method to define the position of each NK cell after removal, secretions from individual cells were assessed. NK cell synaptic secretion, triggered by ligation of NKp30 or NKG2D, included vesicles and SMAPs which contained TSP-1, perforin, and granzyme B. Individual NK cells secreted SMAPs, CD63+ vesicles, or both. A similar number of SMAPs were secreted per cell for both NK cells and CTLs, but NK cell SMAPs were larger. These data establish an unexpected diversity in NK cell synaptic secretions.
CD8+ T cells are considered a critical component of antitumor immunity. However, tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells may express more than one checkpoint molecules that have the potential to inhibit effector responses alone or cooperatively. Here, we focused on the expression dynamic of TIGIT and PD-1 in CD8+ T cells. TIGIT+ subset presented significantly higher PD-1 expression than TIGIT- subset in circulating CD8+ T cells. The expression dynamic of TIGIT and PD-1 was then tracked. In total CD8+ T cells, TIGIT mRNA increased more rapidly than PD-1 mRNA, and TIGIT+ CD8+ T cells upregulated PD-1 more rapidly than TIGIT- CD8+ T cells. Next, 24-h-stimulated CD8+ T cells were re-sorted into TIGIT+ and TIGIT- subsets, and the TIGIT+ cells that came from TIGIT- cells also presented significantly more rapid PD-1 induction than persistent TIGIT- CD8+ T cells. In non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, the expression of PD-1 was more enriched in TIGIT+ cells than in TIGIT- cells in both circulating CD8+ T cells and tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells. Function analysis revealed that TIGIT+ CD8 T cells presented lower interferon-gamma, perforin 1, and granzyme B upregulation than TIGIT- CD8 T cells, especially in NSCLC patients. Overall, these data indicated that TIGIT presented earlier expression dynamic than PD-1 in activated CD8+ T cells and was upregulated in NSCLC patients.
To better understand anti-malaria protective immune responses, we examined the cellular mechanisms that govern protective immunity in a murine Plasmodium yoelii 17X NL (PyNL) re-infection model. Initially, we confirmed that immune B cells generated during a primary PyNL infection were largely responsible for protection from a second PyNL infection. Using the previously identified memory B cell markers CD80, PD-L2, and CD73, we found an increase in the frequency of CD80-PD-L2-CD73+ B cells up to 55 days after a primary PyNL infection and at 4-6 days following a second PyNL infection. Moreover, injection of enriched immune CD19+CD73+ B cells into nonimmune mice were significantly more protective against a PyNL infection than CD73- B cells. Interestingly, a substantial fraction of these CD73+ B cells also expressed IgM and granzyme B, a biomolecule that has been increasingly associated with protective responses against malaria.
BACKGROUND/AIM: Some reports showed encouraging efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors among patients who experienced immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Thus, characterization of T-cell repertoire and immune signatures in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and tumors before and after immune checkpoint inhibitors treatment should contribute to better understanding of irAE-provoked anticancer immune responses.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We applied expression analysis of immune-related genes and T-cell receptor sequencing in tumor and PBMCs from five patients with renal cell carcinoma before combined immunotherapy and at the onset of severe irAEs.RESULTS: We found that the cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8)/forkhead box P3(FOXP3), granzyme B(GZMB)/CD3, perforin 1(PRF1)/CD3 and programmed cell death 1(PD1)/CD8 expression ratios were significantly elevated in PBMCs at the onset of irAEs. In addition, we found expansion of certain T-cell clones in metastatic tissue after irAEs, which were already increased in peripheral blood at the onset of irAEs.CONCLUSION: irAE-provoked T-cells may also circulate and attack distant tumors, leading to durable response in patients with irAEs.
Development of spermatozoa requires remodelling and formation of particular structures. In elongating spermatids, the transient microtubular manchette contributes to the formation of the head-tail coupling apparatus (HTCA) and the sperm tail. The HTCA derives from the centrosome in that the proximal centriole inserts into the nuclear indentation and the distal centriole gives rise to the sperm flagellum. Although impairments in the formation of HTCA and sperm tail cause male infertility their molecular constituents are only partially known. The WD40-protein CFAP52 is implicated in motile cilia, but its relevance for male germ cell differentiation is not known. Here we show that CFAP52 is widespread expressed and localizes to a subset of microtubular structures. In male germ cells, CFAP52 is a component of the transient manchette and the sperm tail. However, expression of Cfap52 is not restricted to motile cilia-bearing cells. In NIH3T3 cells, CFAP52 localizes to the centrosome, the basal body, and the mitotic spindle poles, but not to the primary cilium. Our results demonstrate that CFAP52 is not restricted to motile cilia but instead most likely functions in constituting the centrosome/basal body matrix and the sperm tail.
Plants display a complex life cycle, alternating between haploid and diploid generations. During fertilisation, the haploid sperm cells are delivered to the female gametophyte by pollen tubes, specialised structures elongating by tip growth, which is based on an equilibrium between cell wall-reinforcing processes and turgor-driven expansion. One important factor of this equilibrium is the rate of pectin secretion mediated and regulated by factors including the exocyst complex and small G proteins. Critically important are also non-proteinaceous molecules comprising protons, calcium ions, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and signalling lipids. Among the latter, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and the kinases involved in its formation have been assigned important functions. The negatively charged headgroup of this lipid serves as an interaction point at the apical plasma membrane for partners such as the exocyst complex, thereby polarising the cell and its secretion processes. Another important signalling lipid is phosphatidic acid (PA), that can either be formed by the combination of phospholipases C and diacylglycerol kinases or by phospholipases D. It further fine-tunes pollen tube growth, for example by regulating ROS formation. How the individual signalling cues are intertwined or how external guidance cues are integrated to facilitate directional growth remain open questions.
BACKGROUND: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is caused by uncontrolled inflammation, and the activation of alveolar macrophages (AM) is involved in pathophysiologic procedures. The present study aimed to identify key AM genes and pathways and try to provide potential targets for prognosis and early intervention in ARDS.METHODS: The mRNA expression profile of GSE89953 was obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. The LIMMA package in R software was used to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and the clusterProfiler package was used for functional enrichment and pathway analyses. A protein-protein interaction network of DEGs was constructed to identify hub genes via the STRING database and Cytoscape software. Hub gene expression was validated using differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) obtained from the ProteomeXchange datasets to screen potential biomarkers.RESULTS: A total of 166 DEGs (101 up-regulated and 65 down-regulated) were identified. The up-regulated DEGs were mainly enriched in regulation of the ERK1 and ERK2 cascade, response to interferon-gamma, cell chemotaxis, and migration in biological processes. In the KEGG pathway analysis, up-regulated DEGs were mainly involved in rheumatoid arthritis, cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, phagosome, and the chemokine signaling pathway. The 12 hub genes identified included GZMA, MPO, PRF1, CXCL8, ELANE, GZMB, SELL, APOE, SPP1, JUN, CD247, and CCL2.CONCLUSION: SPP1 was consistently differentially expressed in both DEGs and DEPs. SPP1 could be a potential biomarker for ARDS.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is one of the most common types of primary bone tumors in early adolescence with unsatisfied prognosis. Aberrant DNA methylation had been demonstrated to be related to tumorigenesis and progression of multiple cancers and could serve as the potential biomarkers for the prognosis of human cancers. In conclusion, this study identified 18 downregulated hypomethylation genes and 52 upregulated hypomethylation genes in OS by integrating the analysis the GSE97529 and GSE42572 datasets. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that OS-specific methylated genes were involved in regulating multiple biological processes, including chemical synaptic transmission, transcription, response to drug, and regulating immune response. KEGG pathway analysis showed that OS-specific methylated genes were associated with the regulation of Hippo, cAMP calcium, MAPK, and Wnt signaling pathways. By analyzing R2 datasets, this study showed that the dysregulation of these OS-specific methylated genes was associated with the metastasis-free survival time in patients with OS, including CBLN4, ANKMY1, BZW1, KRTCAP3, GZMB, KRTDAP, LY9, PFKFB2, PTPN22, and CLDN7. This study provided a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the progression and OS and novel biomarkers for the prognosis of OS.
Enterovirus 71 (EV71)-induced T lymphocyte apoptosis plays an important role in hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD), and granzyme B (GZMB) has been shown to be critical for this process. However, the mechanisms underlying GZMB-mediated apoptosis of T lymphocytes remain unknown. In this study, we investigated whether transcription factors and microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in GZMB-mediated apoptosis of T lymphocytes in response to EV71 infection. Our findings indicated that EV71 infection significantly induced apoptosis in Jurkat cells, a human T lymphocytes cell line, as revealed in flow cytometric analysis. Furthermore, EV71 increased the expression of pro-apoptosis Bcl-2-associated X (Bax) and cleaved caspase 3 but decreased the expression of anti-apoptosis B-cell lymphoma protein 2 (Bcl2). GZMB knockdown decreased cell apoptosis and prevented EV71-induced changes in the expression of Bax, cleaved caspase 3, and Bcl2 in Jurkat cells, highlighting the role of GZMB as a key factor in EV71-induced apoptosis. Our study also indicated that overexpression of the transcription factors GATA binding factor 1 (GATA1) and specificity protein 1 (SP1) significantly increased luciferase activity when this gene was inserted in the GZMB 3' untranslated region (3'UTR). GATA1/SP1 overexpression induced cell apoptosis, increased the expression of Bax and cleaved caspase 3, and decreased the expression of Bcl2. Finally, our results suggested that miR-874 plays an essential role in GZMB-mediated cell apoptosis, since an miR-874 mimic decreases the expression of GZMB by targeting its 3'UTR. Collectively, these data indicated that GATA1/SP1 and miR-874 mediate EV71-induced apoptosis in a granzyme B-dependent manner. This signaling pathway may provide a new pharmacological target for the prevention and treatment of HFMD.
Carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) are a cornerstone in the phytopathogenicity of filamentous microbes. CAZymes are required for every step of a successful infection cycle-from penetration, to nutrient acquisition (during colonization), to exit and dispersal. Yet, CAZymes are not a unique feature of filamentous pathogens. They are found across eukaryotic genomes and including, for example, saprotrophic relatives of major pathogens. Comparative genomics and functional analyses revealed that CAZyme content is shaped by a multitude of factors, including utilized substrate, lifestyle, and host preference. Yet, family size alone says little about usage. Indeed, in a previous study, we found that genes putatively coding for the CAZyme families of carbohydrate esterase (CE)1 and CE10, while not specifically enriched in number, were suggested to have lifestyle-specific gene expression patterns. Here, we used comparative genomics and a clustering approach to understand how the repertoire of the CE1- and CE10-encoding gene families is shaped across oomycete evolution. These data are combined with comparative transcriptomic analyses across homologous clusters within the gene families. We find that CE1 and CE10 have been reduced in number in biotrophic oomycetes independent of the phylogenetic relationship of the biotrophs to each other. The reduction in CE1 is different from that observed for CE10: While in CE10 specific clusters of homologous sequences show convergent reduction, CE1 reduction is caused by species-specific losses. Comparative transcriptomics revealed that some clusters of CE1 or CE10 sequences have a higher expression than others, independent of the species composition within them. Further, we find that CE1- and CE10-encoding genes are mainly induced in plant pathogens and that some homologous genes show lifestyle-specific gene expression levels during infection, with hemibiotrophs showing the highest expression levels.
The utilization of different carbon sources in filamentous fungi underlies a complex regulatory network governed by signaling events of different protein kinase pathways, including the high osmolarity glycerol (HOG) and protein kinase A (PKA) pathways. This work unraveled cross-talk events between these pathways in governing the utilization of preferred (glucose) and non-preferred (xylan, xylose) carbon sources in the reference fungus Aspergillus nidulans. An initial screening of a library of 103 non-essential protein kinase (NPK) deletion strains identified several mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) to be important for carbon catabolite repression (CCR). We selected the MAPKs Ste7, MpkB, and PbsA for further characterization and show that they are pivotal for HOG pathway activation, PKA activity, CCR via regulation of CreA cellular localization and protein accumulation, as well as for hydrolytic enzyme secretion. Protein-protein interaction studies show that Ste7, MpkB, and PbsA are part of the same protein complex that regulates CreA cellular localization in the presence of xylan and that this complex dissociates upon the addition of glucose, thus allowing CCR to proceed. Glycogen synthase kinase (GSK) A was also identified as part of this protein complex and shown to potentially phosphorylate two serine residues of the HOG MAPKK PbsA. This work shows that carbon source utilization is subject to cross-talk regulation by protein kinases of different signaling pathways. Furthermore, this study provides a model where the correct integration of PKA, HOG, and GSK signaling events are required for the utilization of different carbon sources.
Tumor cells promote immune evasion through upregulation of programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) that binds with programmed cell death protein 1 (PD1) on cytotoxic T cells and promote dysfunction. Though therapeutic efficacy of anti-PD1 antibody has remarkable effects on different type of cancers it is less effective in breast cancer (BC). Hence, more details understanding of PD-L1-mediated immune evasion is necessary. Here, we report BC cells secrete extracellular vesicles in form of exosomes carry PD-L1 and are highly immunosuppressive. Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) present in tumor microenvironment orchestrates BC cell secreted exosomal PD-L1 load. Circulating exosomal PD-L1 content is highly correlated with tumor TGF-β level. The later also found to be significantly associated with CD8+CD39+, CD8+PD1+ T-cell phenotype. Recombinant TGF-β1 dose dependently induces PD-L1 expression in Texos in vitro and blocking of TGF-β dimmed exosomal PD-L1 level. PD-L1 knocked down exosomes failed to suppress effector activity of activated CD8 T cells like tumor exosomes. While understanding its effect on T-cell receptor signaling, we found siPD-L1 exosomes failed to block phosphorylation of src family proteins, linker for activation of T cells and phosphoinositide phospholipase Cγ of CD8 T cells more than PD-L1 exosomes. In vivo inhibition of exosome release and TGF-β synergistically attenuates tumor burden by promoting Granzyme and interferon gamma release in tumor tissue depicting rejuvenation of exhausted T cells. Thus, we establish TGF-β as a promoter of exosomal PD-L1 and unveil a mechanism that tumor cells follow to promote CD8 T-cell dysfunction.
β-dystroglycan (β-DG) assembles with lamins A/C and B1 and emerin at the nuclear envelope (NE) to maintain proper nuclear architecture and function. To provide insight into the nuclear function of β-DG, we characterized the interaction between β-DG and emerin at the molecular level. Emerin is a major NE protein that regulates multiple nuclear processes and whose deficiency results in Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD). Using truncated variants of β-DG and emerin, via a series of in vitro and in vivo binding experiments and a tailored computational analysis, we determined that the β-DG-emerin interaction is mediated at least in part by their respective transmembrane domains (TM). Using surface plasmon resonance assays we showed that emerin binds to β-DG with high affinity (KD in the nanomolar range). Remarkably, the analysis of cells in which DG was knocked out demonstrated that loss of β-DG resulted in a decreased emerin stability and impairment of emerin-mediated processes. β-DG and emerin are reciprocally required for their optimal targeting within the NE, as shown by immunofluorescence, western blotting and immunoprecipitation assays using emerin variants with mutations in the TM domain and B-lymphocytes of a patient with EDMD. In summary, we demonstrated that β-DG plays a role as an emerin interacting partner modulating its stability and function.
Increasing studies confirm that anti-angiogenesis can increase the effectiveness of immunotherapy. In this study, we found that an angiogenesis inhibitor apatinib enhanced anti-PD-1 therapy for colon cancer in mice via promoting PD-L1 expression. Apatinib treatment upregulated PD-L1 expression in various colon cancer cells both at the mRNA and protein levels. Further, apatinib-treated cancer cells hampered activation and IFN-γ secretion of T cells in the co-culture system, which was reversed by the anti-PD-1 antibody. Based on this, the combination of apatinib with anti-PD-1 on colon cancer growth in mice was examined. The combination treatment showed more significant inhibition on the growth of transplanted tumors in mice than single-drug treatment. Overall, our study here showed the enhancement of anti-PD-1 antitumor efficacy in a syngeneic mouse model (CT-26 cells in Balb/c) by the angiogenesis inhibitor apatinib via upregulating PD-L1 expression as well as angiogenesis inhibition, which may provide a rationale for the combination of apatinib and anti-PD-1 antibody for colorectal cancer treatment in the clinic.
Mycopathogens are serious threats to the crops in commercial mushroom cultivations. In contrast, little is yet known on their occurrence and behaviour in nature. Cobweb infections by a conidiogenous Cladobotryum-type fungus identified by morphology and ITS sequences as Hypomyces odoratus were observed in the year 2015 on primordia and young and mature fruiting bodies of Agaricus xanthodermus in the wild. Progress in development and morphologies of fruiting bodies were affected by the infections. Infested structures aged and decayed prematurely. The mycoparasites tended by mycelial growth from the surroundings to infect healthy fungal structures. They entered from the base of the stipes to grow upwards and eventually also onto lamellae and caps. Isolated H. odoratus strains from a diseased standing mushroom, from a decaying overturned mushroom stipe and from rotting plant material infected mushrooms of different species of the genus Agaricus while Pleurotus ostreatus fruiting bodies were largely resistant. Growing and grown A. xanthodermus and P. ostreatus mycelium showed degrees of resistance against the mycopathogen, in contrast to mycelium of Coprinopsis cinerea. Mycelial morphological characteristics (colonies, conidiophores and conidia, chlamydospores, microsclerotia, pulvinate stroma) and variations of five different H. odoratus isolates are presented. In pH-dependent manner, H. odoratus strains stained growth media by pigment production yellow (acidic pH range) or pinkish-red (neutral to slightly alkaline pH range).
Antibodies targeting the immune checkpoint inhibitor, programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), have provided a breakthrough in the treatment of lung cancer. However, the function of PD-1 in natural killer (NK) cells of cancer patients remains unclear. Herein, we analyzed the expression of PD-1 on the NK cells in the peripheral blood of patients with lung cancer and found that the level of PD-1+ NK cells in patients was significantly higher than that in healthy individuals. Moreover, these PD-1+ NK cells demonstrated a weaker ability to secrete interferon-gamma (INF-γ), granzyme B, and perforin, and exhibited lower CD107a expression. Importantly, in patients with lung cancer, the percentage of PD-1+ NK cells was significantly positively correlated with the concentration of IL-2 in the plasma, which was also higher than that in healthy individuals. In addition, IL-2 could increase the expression of PD-1 on NK cells in vitro, indicating that high IL-2 level in the plasma is largely responsible for the abundance of PD-1+ NK cells in patients with lung cancer. These findings demonstrate intriguing mechanisms for understanding the expression of PD-1 on NK cells and the function of PD-1+ NK cells in lung cancer. This study confirms and extends previous studies demonstrating that PD-1 can negatively regulate the antitumor function of NK cells.
Targeted clearance of colorectal cancer stem cells (CCSCs) has become a novel strategy for tumor immunotherapy. Molecule mucin1 (MUC1) is one of targetable cell surface antigens in CCSCs. However, the critical role of MUC1 in anti-tumor effects of CCSC vaccine remains unclear. In the present study, we showed that MUC1 may be required for CCSC vaccine to exert tumor immunity. CD133+CCSCs were isolated from CT26 cell line using a magnetic-activated cell sorting system, and MUC1 shRNA or recombinant plasmid was further used to decrease or increase the expression of MUC1 in CD133+CCSCs. Mice were subcutaneously immunized with the CCSC lysates, MUC1 knockin CCSCs, and MUC1 knockdown CCSCs respectively, followed by a challenge with CT26 cells. We found that CCSC vaccine significantly reduced the tumor growth via a target killing of CCSCs as evidenced by a decrease of CD133+ cells and ALDH+ cells in tumors. Moreover, CCSC vaccine markedly increased the cytotoxicity of NK cells and the splenocytes, and promoted the release of IFN-γ, Perforin, and Granzyme B, and also reduced the TGF-β1 expression. Additionally, CCSC vaccination enhanced the antibody production and decreased the myeloid derived suppressor cells and Treg subsets. More importantly, MUC1 knockdown partly impaired the anti-tumor efficacy of CCSC vaccine, whereas MUC1 overexpression dramatically enhanced the CCSC vaccine immunity. Overall, these results reveal a novel role and molecular mechanisms of MUC1 in CCSC vaccine against colorectal cancer.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a critical early step in cancer metastasis and a complex process that involves multiple factors. In this study, we used proteomics approaches to investigate the secreted proteins (secretome) of paired human androgen-repressed prostate cancer (ARCaP) cell lines, representing the epithelial (ARCaP-E) and mesenchymal (ARCaP-M) phenotypes. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analyses showed high levels of proteins involved in bone remodeling and extracellular matrix degradation in the ARCaP-M cells, consistent with the bone metastasis phenotype. Furthermore, LC-MS/MS showed a significantly higher level of the serine protease granzyme B (GZMB) in ARCaP-M conditioned media (CM) compared to that of ARCaP-E. Using quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to detect mRNA and Western blot to detect protein expression, we further demonstrated that the GZMB gene was expressed by ARCaP-M and the protein was secreted extracellularly. ARCaP-M cells with GZMB gene knockdown using small interfering RNA (siRNA) have markedly reduced invasiveness as demonstrated by the Matrigel invasion assay in comparison with the scrambled siRNA negative control. This study reports that GZMB secretion by mesenchymal-like androgen-repressed human prostate cancer cells promotes invasion, suggesting a possible extracellular role for GZMB in addition to its classic role in immune cell-mediated cytotoxicity.
Erratum in    J Immunother Cancer. 2020 Nov;8(2):
Immune selection drives tumor cells to acquire refractory phenotypes. We previously demonstrated that cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL)-mediated immune pressure enriches NANOG+ tumor cells with stem-like and immune-refractory properties that make them resistant to CTLs. Here, we report that the emergence of refractory phenotypes is highly associated with an aberrant macroautophagic/autophagic state of the NANOG+ tumor cells and that the autophagic phenotype arises through transcriptional induction of MAP1LC3B/LC3B by NANOG. Furthermore, we found that upregulation of LC3B expression contributes to an increase in EGF secretion. The subsequent hyperactivation of EGFR-AKT signaling rendered NANOG+ tumor cells resistant to CTL killing. The NANOG-LC3B-p-EGFR axis was preserved across various types of human cancer and correlated negatively with the overall survival of cervical cancer patients. Inhibition of LC3B in immune-refractory tumor models rendered tumors susceptible to adoptive T-cell transfer, as well as PDCD1/PD-1 blockade, and led to successful, long-term control of the disease. Thus, our findings demonstrate a novel link among immune-resistance, stem-like phenotypes, and LC3B-mediated autophagic secretion in immune-refractory tumor cells, and implicate the LC3B-p-EGFR axis as a central molecular target for controlling NANOG+ immune-refractory cancer.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin beta; ATG7: autophagy related 7; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; CASP3: caspase 3; CFSE: carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CI: confidence interval; CIN: cervical intraepithelial neoplasia; CSC: cancer stem cell; CTL: cytotoxic T lymphocyte; EGF: epidermal growth factor; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; FIGO: International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GZMB: granzyme B; HG-CIN: high-grade CIN; IHC: immunohistochemistry; LG-CIN: low-grade CIN; LN: lymph node; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MCL1: myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1; MLANA/MART-1: melanoma antigen recognized by T cells 1; MUT: mutant; NANOG: Nanog homeobox; PDCD1/PD-1: programmed cell death 1; PMEL/gp100: premelanosome protein; RTK: receptor tyrosine kinase; TMA: tissue microarray; WT: wild type.
The Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis uses serine not only as a building block for proteins but also as an important precursor in many anabolic reactions. Moreover, a lack of serine results in the initiation of biofilm formation. However, excess serine inhibits the growth of B. subtilis. To unravel the underlying mechanisms, we isolated suppressor mutants that can tolerate toxic serine concentrations by three targeted and non-targeted genome-wide screens. All screens as well as genetic complementation in Escherichia coli identified the so far uncharacterized permease YbeC as the major serine transporter of B. subtilis. In addition to YbeC, the threonine transporters BcaP and YbxG make minor contributions to serine uptake. A strain lacking these three transporters was able to tolerate 100 mM serine whereas the wild type strain was already inhibited by 1 mM of the amino acid. The screen for serine-resistant mutants also identified mutations that result in increased serine degradation and in increased expression of threonine biosynthetic enzymes suggesting that serine toxicity results from interference with threonine biosynthesis.
Comment in    J Invest Dermatol. 2021 Mar;141(3):474-476.
The Atg12-Atg5/Atg16L1 complex is recruited by WIPI2b to the site of autophagosome formation. Atg16L1 is an effector of the Golgi resident GTPase Rab33B. Here we identified a minimal stable complex of murine Rab33B(30-202) Q92L and Atg16L1(153-210). Atg16L1(153-210) comprises the C-terminal part of the Atg16L1 coiled-coil domain. We have determined the crystal structure of the Rab33B Q92L/Atg16L1(153-210) effector complex at 3.47 Å resolution. This structure reveals that two Rab33B molecules bind to the diverging α-helices of the dimeric Atg16L1 coiled-coil domain. We mutated Atg16L1 and Rab33B interface residues and found that they disrupt complex formation in pull-down assays and cellular co-localization studies. The Rab33B binding site of Atg16L1 comprises 20 residues and immediately precedes the WIPI2b binding site. Rab33B mutations that abolish Atg16L binding also abrogate Rab33B association with the Golgi stacks. Atg16L1 mutants that are defective in Rab33B binding still co-localize with WIPI2b in vivo. The close proximity of the Rab33B and WIPI2b binding sites might facilitate the recruitment of Rab33B containing vesicles to provide a source of lipids during autophagosome biogenesis.
Erratum for    Int J Impot Res. 2020 May 26;:
The size and shape of organs is tightly controlled to achieve optimal function. Natural morphological variations often represent functional adaptations to an ever-changing environment. For instance, variation in head morphology is pervasive in insects and the underlying molecular basis is starting to be revealed in the Drosophila genus for species of the melanogaster group. However, it remains unclear whether similar diversifications are governed by similar or different molecular mechanisms over longer timescales. To address this issue, we used species of the virilis phylad because they have been diverging from D. melanogaster for at least 40 million years. Our comprehensive morphological survey revealed remarkable differences in eye size and head shape among these species with D. novamexicana having the smallest eyes and southern D. americana populations having the largest eyes. We show that the genetic architecture underlying eye size variation is complex with multiple associated genetic variants located on most chromosomes. Our genome wide association study (GWAS) strongly suggests that some of the putative causative variants are associated with the presence of inversions. Indeed, northern populations of D. americana share derived inversions with D. novamexicana and they show smaller eyes compared to southern ones. Intriguingly, we observed a significant enrichment of genes involved in eye development on the 4th chromosome after intersecting chromosomal regions associated with phenotypic differences with those showing high differentiation among D. americana populations. We propose that variants associated with chromosomal inversions contribute to both intra- and interspecific variation in eye size among species of the virilis phylad.
Comment in    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2021 Jun;19(6):346.    Fac Rev. 2021 Nov 15;10:79.
Psoriasis is a frequent, inflammatory skin disease characterized by keratinocyte hyperproliferation and a disease-related infiltration of immune cells. Here, we identified a novel proinflammatory signaling pathway driven by cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) and CDK6 and the methyltransferase EZH2 as a valid target for psoriasis therapy. Delineation of the pathway revealed that CDK4/6 phosphorylated EZH2 in keratinocytes, thereby triggering a methylation-induced activation of STAT3. Subsequently, active STAT3 resulted in the induction of IκBζ, which is a key proinflammatory transcription factor required for cytokine synthesis in psoriasis. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of CDK4/6 or EZH2 abrogated psoriasis-related proinflammatory gene expression by suppressing IκBζ induction in keratinocytes. Importantly, topical application of CDK4/6 or EZH2 inhibitors on the skin was sufficient to fully prevent the development of psoriasis in various mouse models by suppressing STAT3-mediated IκBζ expression. Moreover, we found a hyperactivation of the CDK4/6-EZH2 pathway in human and mouse psoriatic skin lesions. Thus, this study not only identifies a novel psoriasis-relevant proinflammatory pathway, but also proposes the repurposing of CDK4/6 or EZH2 inhibitors as a new therapeutic option for patients with psoriasis.
Understanding T cell function in vivo is of key importance for basic and translational immunology alike. To study T cells in vivo, we developed a new knock-in mouse line, which expresses a fusion protein of granzyme B, a key component of cytotoxic granules involved in T cell-mediated target cell-killing, and monomeric teal fluorescent protein from the endogenous Gzmb locus. Homozygous knock-ins, which are viable and fertile, have cytotoxic T lymphocytes with endogeneously fluorescent cytotoxic granules but wild-type-like killing capacity. Expression of the fluorescent fusion protein allows quantitative analyses of cytotoxic granule maturation, transport and fusion in vitro with super-resolution imaging techniques, and two-photon microscopy in living knock-ins enables the visualization of tissue rejection through individual target cell-killing events in vivo. Thus, the new mouse line is an ideal tool to study cytotoxic T lymphocyte biology and to optimize personalized immunotherapy in cancer treatment.
SEIPIN proteins are localized to endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-lipid droplet (LD) junctions where they mediate the directional formation of LDs into the cytoplasm in eukaryotic cells. Unlike in animal and yeast cells, which have single SEIPIN genes, plants have three distinct SEIPIN isoforms encoded by separate genes. The mechanism of SEIPIN action remains poorly understood, and here we demonstrate that part of the function of two SEIPIN isoforms in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), AtSEIPIN2 and AtSEIPIN3, may depend on their interaction with the vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)-associated protein (VAP) family member AtVAP27-1. VAPs have well-established roles in the formation of membrane contact sites and lipid transfer between the ER and other organelles, and here, we used a combination of biochemical, cell biology, and genetics approaches to show that AtVAP27-1 interacts with the N termini of AtSEIPIN2 and AtSEIPIN3 and likely supports the normal formation of LDs. This insight indicates that the ER membrane tethering machinery in plant cells could play a role with select SEIPIN isoforms in LD biogenesis at the ER, and additional experimental evidence in Saccharomyces cerevisiae supports the possibility that this interaction may be important in other eukaryotic systems.
The nuclear envelope, comprising the inner and the outer nuclear membrane, separates the nucleus from the cytoplasm and plays a key role in cellular functions. Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) are embedded in the nuclear envelope and control transport of macromolecules between the two compartments. Recently, it has been shown that the axial distance between the inner nuclear membrane and the cytoplasmic side of the NPC can be measured using dual-color metal-induced energy transfer (MIET). This chapter focuses on experimental aspects of this method and discusses the details of data analysis.
The integrated stress response (ISR) allows cells to rapidly shutdown most of their protein synthesis in response to protein misfolding, amino acid deficiency, or virus infection. These stresses trigger the phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2alpha, which prevents the initiation of translation. Here we show that triggering the ISR drastically reduces the progression of DNA replication forks within 1 h, thus flanking the shutdown of protein synthesis with immediate inhibition of DNA synthesis. DNA replication is restored by compounds that inhibit eIF2alpha kinases or re-activate eIF2alpha. Mechanistically, the translational shutdown blocks histone synthesis, promoting the formation of DNA:RNA hybrids (R-loops), which interfere with DNA replication. R-loops accumulate upon histone depletion. Conversely, histone overexpression or R-loop removal by RNaseH1 each restores DNA replication in the context of ISR and histone depletion. In conclusion, the ISR rapidly stalls DNA synthesis through histone deficiency and R-loop formation. We propose that this shutdown mechanism prevents potentially detrimental DNA replication in the face of cellular stresses.
Sepsis is a serious global health problem. In addition to a high incidence, this syndrome has a high mortality and is responsible for huge health expenditure. The pathophysiology of sepsis is very complex and it is not well-understood yet. However, it is widely accepted that the initial phase of sepsis is characterized by a hyperinflammatory response while the late phase is characterized by immunosuppression and immune anergy, increasing the risk of secondary infections. Granzymes (Gzms) are a family of serine proteases classified according to their cleavage specificity. Traditionally, it was assumed that all Gzms acted as cytotoxic proteases. However, recent evidence suggests that GzmB is the one with the greatest cytotoxic capacity, while the cytotoxicity of others such as GzmA and GzmK is not clear. Recent studies have found that GzmA, GzmB, GzmK, and GzmM act as pro-inflammatory mediators. Specially, solid evidences show that GzmA and GzmK function as extracellular proteases that regulate the inflammatory response irrespectively of its ability to induce cell death. Indeed, studies in animal models indicate that GzmA is involved in the cytokine release syndrome characteristic of sepsis. Moreover, the GZM family also could regulate other biological processes involved in sepsis pathophysiology like the coagulation cascade, platelet function, endothelial barrier permeability, and, in addition, could be involved in the immunosuppressive stage of sepsis. In this review, we provide a comprehensive overview on the contribution of these novel functions of Gzms to sepsis and the new therapeutic opportunities emerging from targeting these proteases for the treatment of this serious health problem.
The human immune system is a complex system which protects against invaders and maintains tissue homeostasis. It is broadly divided into the innate and adaptive branches. Granzyme B is serine protease that plays an important role in both and can serve as a biomarker for cellular activation. Because of this, a granzyme B PET agent (GZP) has recently been developed and has been shown to be able to monitor response to immunotherapy. Here, we evaluated the utility of granzyme B PET imaging to assess the innate immune response. We subcutaneously administered LPS to mice to induce inflammation and performed granzyme B PET imaging after 24 and 120 h. We dissected out tissue in the region of injection and performed granzyme B immunofluorescence (IF) to confirm specificity of the GZP radiotracer. Granzyme B PET imaging demonstrated increased uptake in the region of LPS injection after 24 h, which normalized at 120 h. Granzyme B immunofluorescence showed specific staining in tissue from the 24 h time point compared to the PBS-injected control. These findings support the use of granzyme B PET for imaging innate immunity. In certain clinical contexts, the use of GZP PET imaging may be superior to currently available agents, and we therefore suggest further preclinical studies with the ultimate goal of translation to clinical use.
If not properly regulated, the inflammatory immune response can promote carcinogenesis, as evident in colorectal cancer (CRC). Aiming to gain mechanistic insight into the link between inflammation and CRC, we perform transcriptomics analysis of human CRC, identifying a strong correlation between expression of the serine protease granzyme A (GzmA) and inflammation. In a dextran sodium sulfate and azoxymethane (DSS/AOM) mouse model, deficiency and pharmacological inhibition of extracellular GzmA both attenuate gut inflammation and prevent CRC development, including the initial steps of cell transformation and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistically, extracellular GzmA induces NF-κB-dependent IL-6 production in macrophages, which in turn promotes STAT3 activation in cultured CRC cells. Accordingly, colon tissues from DSS/AOM-treated, GzmA-deficient animals present reduced levels of pSTAT3. By identifying GzmA as a proinflammatory protease that promotes CRC development, these findings provide information on mechanisms that link immune cell infiltration to cancer progression and present GzmA as a therapeutic target for CRC.
The chronic course of endometriosis suggests that the immune system may play a role in its aetiology. There may be resistance to cell lysis, as well as an immune defect underlying endometriosis. Granzyme B is a serine protease that is secreted by Natural Killer (NK) cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes during a cellular immune response and can induce apoptosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between both Granzyme B levels and Granzyme B gene polymorphisms in endometriosis patients. Women between the ages of 20 - 45 were included in the study. The patients were divided into two groups: those diagnosed with endometriosis and those who had not been diagnosed with endometriosis. In the blood samples, Granzyme B gene polymorphisms and serum levels of Granzyme B were studied. There was no difference between the groups in terms of median Granzyme B levels and the presence of AA, AG, and GG genotypes. There was a difference in median granzyme levels for the control group; the GG genotype was found at a lower frequency. The immune defect within endometriosis-related immune cells may not be exclusively due to Granzyme B. Other mediators that are secreted from immune cells may have additive effects.IMPACT STATEMENTWhat is already known on this subject? NK cells are cytotoxic and inhibit the implantation of autologous endometrial cells that are spilled into the peritoneum by retrograde menstruation. Thus, a reduction in NK cell activity may facilitate the progression of endometriosis. The literature review reveals that there are studies suggesting that NK cell activity may be insufficient in endometriosis. Granzyme B is a serine protease that is secreted by NK cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes during a cellular immune response.What do the results of this study add? Granzyme B is one of the cytotoxic granules in NK and cytotoxic T lymphocyte cells and its genetic polymorphisms were tested in endometriosis. We found that median Granzyme B levels were significantly different in patients with the GG genotype in the control group, compared to those with the AA and AG genotype. However, this difference was not detected between the control and endometriosis groups.What are the implications of these findings for clinical practice and/or further research? Our results contribute to uncovering the pathogenesis of endometriosis since there are no previous studies in the literature regarding this topic. Although we did not find a difference, our results will inform further studies made on this topic. Studies with different molecules and an increased number of patients are needed. The immune defect of endometriosis may not be due exclusively to Granzyme B. Other mediators that are secreted from immune cells may have mutual effects and interactions.
PURPOSE: CXCR5-positive (CXCR5+) tumor cell infiltration has different prognostic values in different types of cancer. The objective was to evaluate the effect of CXCR5+ cell infiltration in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included two patient cohorts: The Cancer Genome Atlas cohort (TCGA, n = 472) and the Renji Hospital cohort (RJHC, n = 201). The TCGA and RJHC cohorts were analyzed for CXCR5-related mRNAs and CXCR5+ cell infiltration, respectively. We then evaluated the correlation between CXCR5 mRNA and CXCR5+ cell infiltration in terms of overall survival and the immune contexture.RESULTS: The 5-year overall survival rate was significantly correlated with high CXCR5 mRNA expression and CXCR5+ cell infiltration in the TCGA and RJHC cohorts, respectively (p < 0.01), even after adjusting for confounders. Moreover, high CXCR5 mRNA expression was associated with more CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, plasma cells, and less dendritic cells. A high CXCR5 mRNA expression was also correlated with increased expression of cytotoxic IFNG, TNFSF11 (RANKL), GZMA, GZMB, GZMK, GZMM, and PRF1 and increased expression of the immunosuppressive gene PDCD1 (PD-1), CD274 (PD-L1), CTLA4, LAG3, HAVCR2 (TIM-3), BTLA, and TIGIT.CONCLUSION: HNSCC patients with a high intratumoral CXCR5 expression had a better prognosis than those with low intratumoral CXCR5 expression. Moreover, CXCR5+ cell infiltration could be used as an independent prognostic biomarker or as a potential therapeutic target. The presence of CXCR5+ cells affects the infiltration of immunocytes in head and neck cancer, differently from what was reported in other cancer types. Further randomized controlled trials or studies with more patients are needed to validate our results.
The second messenger molecule cyclic di-AMP (c-di-AMP) is formed by many bacteria and archaea. In many species that produce c-di-AMP, this second messenger is essential for viability on rich medium. Recent research has demonstrated that c-di-AMP binds to a large number of proteins and riboswitches, which are often involved in potassium and osmotic homeostasis. c-di-AMP becomes dispensable if the bacteria are cultivated on minimal media with low concentrations of osmotically active compounds. Thus, the essentiality of c-di-AMP does not result from an interaction with a single essential target but rather from the multilevel control of complex homeostatic processes. This review summarizes current knowledge on the homeostasis of c-di-AMP and its function(s) in the control of cellular processes.
The receptor CRM1 is responsible for the nuclear export of many tumor-suppressor proteins and viral ribonucleoproteins. This renders CRM1 an interesting target for therapeutic intervention in diverse cancer types and viral diseases. Structural studies of Saccharomyces cerevisiae CRM1 (ScCRM1) complexes with inhibitors defined the molecular basis for CRM1 inhibition. Nevertheless, no structural information is available for inhibitors bound to human CRM1 (HsCRM1). Here, we present the structure of the natural inhibitor Leptomycin B bound to the HsCRM1-RanGTP complex. Despite high sequence conservation and structural similarity in the NES-binding cleft region, ScCRM1 exhibits 16-fold lower binding affinity than HsCRM1 toward PKI-NES and significant differences in affinities toward potential CRM1 inhibitors. In contrast to HsCRM1, competition assays revealed that a human adapted mutant ScCRM1-T539C does not bind all inhibitors tested. Taken together, our data indicate the importance of using HsCRM1 for molecular analysis and development of novel antitumor and antiviral drugs.
The functional characterization and regulation of tissue resident and non-resident CD8+ T cells in the human female reproductive tract (FRT) as women age remains a gap in our knowledge. Here we characterized the cytotoxic activity and granular contents of CD8+ T cells from the FRT in pre- and postmenopausal women. We found that under steady-state conditions, CD8+ T cells from endometrium (EM), endocervix and ectocervix displayed direct cytotoxic activity, and that cytotoxicity increased in the EM after menopause. Cytotoxic activity was sensitive to suppression by TGFβ exclusively in the EM, and sensitivity to TGFβ was reduced after menopause. Under steady-state conditions, cytotoxic activity (measured as direct killing activity), cytotoxic potential (measured as content of cytotoxic molecules) and proliferation are enhanced in non-resident CD8+ (CD103-) T cells compared to tissue resident (CD103+) T cells. Upon activation, CD103+ T cells displayed greater degranulation compared to CD103- T cells, however the granular content of perforin, granzyme A (GZA) or granzyme B (GZB) was significantly lower. After menopause, degranulation significantly increased, and granular release switched from predominantly GZB in premenopausal to GZA in postmenopausal women. Postmenopausal changes affected both CD103+ and CD103- subpopulations. Finally, CD103+ T cells displayed reduced proliferation compared to CD103- T cells, but after proliferation, cytotoxic molecules were similar in each population. Our results highlight the complexity of regulation of cytotoxic function in the FRT before and after menopause, and are relevant to the development of protective strategies against genital infections and gynecological cancers as women age.
Over 50% of women at a childbearing age in the United States are overweight or obese, and this can adversely affect their offspring. We studied if maternal obesity-inducing high fat diet (HFD) not only increases offspring's mammary cancer risk but also impairs response to antiestrogen tamoxifen. Female rat offspring of HFD and control diet-fed dams, in which estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) mammary tumors were induced with the carcinogen 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA), exhibited similar initial responses to antiestrogen tamoxifen. However, after tamoxifen therapy was completed, almost all (91%) tumors recurred in HFD offspring, compared with only 29% in control offspring. The increase in local mammary tumor recurrence in HFD offspring was linked to an increase in the markers of immunosuppression (Il17f, Tgfβ1, VEGFR2) in the tumor microenvironment (TME). Protein and mRNA levels of the major histocompatibility complex II (MHC-II), but not MHC-I, were reduced in the recurring DMBA tumors of HFD offspring. Further, infiltration of CD8+ effector T cells and granzyme B+ (GZMB+) cells were lower in their recurring tumors. To determine if maternal HFD can pre-program similar changes in the TME of allografted E0771 mammary tumors in offspring of syngeneic mice, flow cytometry analysis was performed. E0771 mammary tumor growth was significantly accelerated in the HFD offspring, and a reduction in the numbers of GZMB and non-significant reduction of interferon γ (IFNγ) secreting CD8+ T cells in the TME was seen. Thus, consumption of a HFD during pregnancy increases susceptibility of the female rat and mouse offspring to tumor immune suppression and mammary tumor growth and recurrence.
Comment on    Curr Biol. 2020 Jun 22;30(12):2312-2320.e5.
White-rot (WR) fungi are pivotal decomposers of dead organic matter in forest ecosystems and typically use a large array of hydrolytic and oxidative enzymes to deconstruct lignocellulose. However, the extent of lignin and cellulose degradation may vary between species and wood type. Here, we combined comparative genomics, transcriptomics and secretome proteomics to identify conserved enzymatic signatures at the onset of wood-decaying activity within the Basidiomycota genus Pycnoporus. We observed a strong conservation in the genome structures and the repertoires of protein-coding genes across the four Pycnoporus species described to date, despite the species having distinct geographic distributions. We further analysed the early response of P. cinnabarinus, P. coccineus and P. sanguineus to diverse (ligno)-cellulosic substrates. We identified a conserved set of enzymes mobilized by the three species for breaking down cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin. The co-occurrence in the exo-proteomes of H2O2-producing enzymes with H2O2-consuming enzymes was a common feature of the three species, although each enzymatic partner displayed independent transcriptional regulation. Finally, cellobiose dehydrogenase-coding genes were systematically co-regulated with at least one AA9 lytic polysaccharide monooxygenase gene, indicative of enzymatic synergy in vivo. This study highlights a conserved core white-rot fungal enzymatic mechanism behind the wood-decaying process.
Regulatory B cells (Bregs) have the ability to regulate inflammation in various pathological situations, making them key players in immune regulation. Several mechanisms have been described and we recently identified a GZMB expressing Breg population in kidney transplanted patients who tolerate a kidney graft. To further investigate their biology and mechanisms, we conducted a transcriptomic analysis by RNAseq of these cells and we performed the first weighted meta-analysis of publicly available transcriptomic data from published Breg studies both in humans and mice. We identified two distinct and unique transcriptional signatures of 126 and 93 genes, respectively, associated with these Bregs. While we highlighted genes coding for proteins with potent involvement in regulatory functions, proliferation, and coding for transcription factors, the comparison between humans and mice did not allow identifying a common pattern. Thus, our results suggest distinct species-restricted Breg transcriptional signatures in humans and mice.
The mechanisms by which HIV increases susceptibility to tuberculosis and other respiratory infections are incompletely understood. We used transcriptomics of paired whole bronchoalveolar lavage cells (BLCs) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells to compare the effect of HIV at the lung mucosal surface and in peripheral blood. The majority of HIV-induced differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were specific to either the peripheral or lung mucosa compartments (1,307/1,404, 93%). Type I interferon signaling was the dominant signature of DEGs in HIV-positive blood but not in HIV-positive BLCs. DEGs in the HIV-positive BLCs were significantly enriched for infiltration with cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. Higher expression of type 1 interferon transcripts in peripheral CD8+ T cells and representative transcripts and proteins in BLCs-derived CD8+ T cells during HIV infection, including IFNG (IFN-gamma), GZMB (Granzyme B), and PDCD1 (PD-1), was confirmed by cell-subset specific transcriptional analysis and flow cytometry. Thus, we report that a whole transcriptomic approach revealed qualitatively distinct effects of HIV in blood and bronchoalveolar compartments. Further work exploring the impact of distinct type I interferon programs and functional features of CD8+ T cells infiltrating the lung mucosa during HIV infection may provide novel insights into HIV-induced susceptibility to respiratory pathogens.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is the most common inflammatory skin condition. Skin barrier dysfunction is of major importance in AD because it facilitates allergen sensitization and systemic allergic responses. Long regarded as a pro-apoptotic protease, emerging studies indicate granzyme B (GzmB) to have extracellular roles involving the proteolytic cleavage of extracellular matrix, cell adhesion proteins, and basement membrane proteins. Minimally expressed in normal skin, GzmB is elevated in AD and is positively correlated with disease severity and pruritus. We hypothesized that GzmB contributes to AD through extracellular protein cleavage. A causative role for GzmB was assessed in an oxazolone-induced murine model of dermatitis, comparing GzmB-/- mice with wild-type mice, showing significant reductions in inflammation, epidermal thickness, and lesion formation in GzmB-/- mice. Topical administration of a small-molecule GzmB inhibitor reduced disease severity compared with vehicle-treated controls. Mechanistically, GzmB impaired epithelial barrier function through E-cadherin and FLG cleavage. GzmB proteolytic activity contributes to impaired epidermal barrier function and represents a valid therapeutic target for AD.
OBJECTIVES: We hypothesized that immune response may contribute to progression of coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) at the second week of illness. Therefore, we compared cell-mediated immune (CMI) responses between severe and mild COVID-19 cases.METHODS: We examined peripheral blood mononuclear cells of laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 patients from their first and third weeks of illness. Severe pneumonia was defined as an oxygen saturation ≤93% at room air. Expressions of molecules related to T-cell activation and functions were analyzed by flow cytometry.RESULTS: The population dynamics of T cells at the first week were not different between the two groups. However, total numbers of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells tended to be lower in the severe group at the third week of illness. Expressions of Ki-67, PD-1, perforin, and granzyme B in CD4+ or CD8+ T cells were significantly higher in the severe group than in the mild group at the third week. In contrast to the mild group, the levels of their expression did not decrease in the severe group.CONCLUSIONS: Severe COVID-19 had a higher degree of proliferation, activation, and cytotoxicity of T-cells at the late phase of illness without cytotoxic T-cell contraction, which might contribute to the development of severe COVID-19.
Mechanisms of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell-mediated antitumor immunity and toxicity remain poorly characterized because few studies examine the intact tumor microenvironment (TME) following CAR T cell infusion. Axicabtagene ciloleucel is an autologous anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy approved for patients with large B cell lymphoma. We devised multiplex immunostaining and ISH assays to interrogate CAR T cells and other immune cell infiltrates in biopsies of diffuse large B cell lymphoma following axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion. We found that a majority of intratumoral CAR T cells expressed markers of T cell activation but, unexpectedly, constituted ≤5% of all T cells within the TME 5 days or more after therapy. Large numbers of T cells without CAR were also activated within the TME after axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion; these cells were positive for Ki-67, IFN-γ, granzyme B (GzmB), and/or PD-1 and were found at the highest levels in biopsies with CAR T cells. Additionally, non-CAR immune cells were the exclusive source of IL-6, a cytokine associated with cytokine release syndrome, and were found at their highest numbers in biopsies with CAR T cells. These data suggest that intratumoral CAR T cells are associated with non-CAR immune cell activation within the TME with both beneficial and pathological effects.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α is largely regarded as a proinflammatory cytokine, but several recent researches have demonstrated that TNF-α could possess immunoregulatory roles with potential to suppress anti-tumor immunity. Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major risk factor of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and HBV-specific CD8 T cells could exert anti-tumor roles in HCC patients. Here, we found that HBV-specific CD8 T cells, both in the peripheral blood and in the tumor microenvironment, were more enriched with TNF-α-expressing cells than interferon (IFN)-γ-expressing cells. Compared to IFN-γ-expressing HBV-specific CD8 T cells, TNF-α-expressing HBV-specific CD8 T cells presented lower expression of inhibitory checkpoint molecules, including programmed cell death (PD)-1, T cell immunoglobulin mucin-3 (TIM-3) and cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen (CTLA)-4. HBV-specific CD8 T cells could mediate the lysis of autologous primary tumor cells, and the inhibition of TNF-α could further elevate their cytotoxic capacity. Subsequently, we demonstrated that TNF-α inhibition in HBV-specific CD8 T cells could significantly increase granzyme B (GZMB) and perforin 1 (PRF1) expression while having no effect towards granzyme A (GZMA) expression. The addition of exogenous TNF-α at low levels had no consistent effect on the expression of GZMA, GZMB and PRF1, but at higher levels, exogenous TNF-α significantly reduced GZMA, GZMB and PRF1 expression. Overall, these results suggested that TNF-α-expressing cells probably presented a deleterious role in HCC but were enriched in HBV-specific CD8 T cells.
Below-ground microbes can induce systemic resistance against foliar pests and pathogens on diverse plant hosts. The prevalence of induced systemic resistance (ISR) among plant-microbe-pest systems raises the question of host specificity in microbial induction of ISR. To test whether ISR is limited by plant host range, we tested the ISR-inducing ectomycorrhizal fungus Laccaria bicolor on the nonmycorrhizal plant Arabidopsis thaliana. We used the cabbage looper Trichoplusia ni and bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 (Pto) as readouts for ISR on Arabidopsis. We found that root inoculation with L. bicolor triggered ISR against T. ni and induced systemic susceptibility (ISS) against the bacterial pathogen Pto. We found that L. bicolor-triggered ISR against T. ni was dependent on jasmonic acid signaling and salicylic acid biosynthesis and signaling. Heat-killed L. bicolor and chitin were sufficient to trigger ISR against T. ni and ISS against Pto. The chitin receptor CERK1 was necessary for L. bicolor-mediated effects on systemic immunity. Collectively our findings suggest that some ISR responses might not require intimate symbiotic association, but rather might be the result of root perception of conserved microbial signals.
We investigated the molecular basis for the remarkably different survival outcomes of mice expressing different alloforms of the pro-apoptotic serine protease granzyme B to mouse cytomegalovirus infection. Whereas C57BL/6 mice homozygous for granzyme BP (GzmBP/P) raise cytotoxic T lymphocytes that efficiently kill infected cells, those of C57BL/6 mice congenic for the outbred allele (GzmBW/W) fail to kill MCMV-infected cells and died from uncontrolled hepatocyte infection and acute liver failure. We identified subtle differences in how GzmBP and GzmBW activate cell death signalling - both alloforms predominantly activated pro-caspases directly, and cleaved pro-apoptotic Bid poorly. Consequently, neither alloform initiated mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization, or was blocked by Bcl-2, Bcl-XL or co-expression of MCMV proteins M38.5/M41.1, which together stabilize mitochondria by sequestering Bak/Bax. Remarkably, mass spectrometric analysis of proteins from MCMV-infected primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts identified 13 cleavage sites in nine viral proteins (M18, M25, M28, M45, M80, M98, M102, M155, M164) that were cleaved >20-fold more efficiently by either GzmBP or GzmBW. Notably, M18, M28, M45, M80, M98, M102 and M164 were cleaved 20- >100-fold more efficiently by GzmBW, and so, would persist in infected cells targeted by CTLs from GzmBP/P mice. Conversely, M155 was cleaved >100-fold more efficiently by GzmBP, and would persist in cells targeted by CTLs of GzmBW/W mice. M25 was cleaved efficiently by both proteases, but at different sites. We conclude that different susceptibility to MCMV does not result from skewed endogenous cell death pathways, but rather, to as yet uncharacterised MCMV-intrinsic pathways that ultimately inhibit granzyme B-induced cell death.
Peptidoglycan (PG) is the main component of bacterial cell walls and the target for many antibiotics. PG biosynthesis is tightly coordinated with cell wall growth and turnover, and many of these control activities depend upon PASTA-domain containing eukaryotic-like serine/threonine protein kinases (PASTA-eSTK) that sense PG fragments. However, only a few PG biosynthetic enzymes are direct kinase substrates. Here, we identify the conserved ReoM protein as a novel PASTA-eSTK substrate in the Gram-positive pathogen Listeria monocytogenes. Our data show that the phosphorylation of ReoM is essential as it controls ClpCP-dependent proteolytic degradation of the essential enzyme MurA, which catalyses the first committed step in PG biosynthesis. We also identify ReoY as a second novel factor required for degradation of ClpCP substrates. Collectively, our data imply that the first committed step of PG biosynthesis is activated through control of ClpCP protease activity in response to signals of PG homeostasis imbalance.
BACKGROUND: A minority of patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) benefit from treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). Ineffective effector function of activated T and NK cells may lead to reduced tumor cell death, even when these activated effector cells are released from their immune checkpoint brake. Hence, in this study we aimed to assess the association of baseline serum granzyme B, as well as germline variation of the GZMB gene, with clinical outcome to programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade.METHODS: A total of 347 patients with stage IV NSCLC who started nivolumab treatment between June 2013 and June 2017 were prospectively included. Baseline serum and whole blood was available, allowing for protein quantification and targeted DNA sequencing. Clinical outcome was based on best overall response (BOR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, V.1.1, progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS).RESULTS: Patients with low serum levels of granzyme B had worse PFS (HR: 1.96; 95% CI: 1.12 to 3.43; p=0.018) and worse OS (HR: 2.08; 95% CI: 1.12 to 3.87; p=0.021) than patients with high baseline serum levels. To validate the findings, germline variation of GZMB rs8192917 was assessed. Patients with homozygous and heterozygous variants of GZMB rs8192917 had worse BOR (OR: 1.60; 95% CI: 1.01 to 2.52; p=0.044) and worse PFS (HR: 1.38; 95% CI:1.02 to 1.87; p=0.036) than wild types.CONCLUSIONS: A low baseline serum level of granzyme B and germline variation of GZMB was associated with worse clinical outcome in NSCLC, emphasizing the relevance and additional value of monitoring germline genetic variations which mirror cytotoxic functions of T cells in ICI therapy.TRAIL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Dutch Trial Registry (NL6828).
Natural killer (NK) cells are key innate immunity effectors that combat viral infections and control several cancer types. For their immune function, human NK cells rely largely on five different cytotoxic proteases, called granzymes (A/B/H/K/M). Granzyme B (GrB) initiates at least three distinct cell death pathways, but key aspects of its function remain unexplored because selective probes that detect its activity are currently lacking. In this study, we used a set of unnatural amino acids to fully map the substrate preferences of GrB, demonstrating previously unknown GrB substrate preferences. We then used these preferences to design substrate-based inhibitors and a GrB-activatable activity-based fluorogenic probe. We show that our GrB probes do not significantly react with caspases, making them ideal for in-depth analyses of GrB localization and function in cells. Using our quenched fluorescence substrate, we observed GrB within the cytotoxic granules of human YT cells. When used as cytotoxic effectors, YT cells loaded with GrB attacked MDA-MB-231 target cells, and active GrB influenced its target cell-killing efficiency. In summary, we have developed a set of molecular tools for investigating GrB function in NK cells and demonstrate noninvasive visual detection of GrB with an enzyme-activated fluorescent substrate.
Wax esters (WE) belong to the class of neutral lipids. They are formed by an esterification of a fatty alcohol and an activated fatty acid. Dependent on the chain length and desaturation degree of the fatty acid and the fatty alcohol moiety, WE can have diverse physicochemical properties. WE derived from monounsaturated long-chain acyl moieties are of industrial interest due to their very good lubrication properties. Whereas WE were obtained in the past from spermaceti organs of the sperm whale, industrial WE are nowadays mostly produced chemically from fossil fuels. In order to produce WE more sustainably, attempts to produce industrial WE in transgenic plants are steadily increasing. To achieve this, different combinations of WE producing enzymes are expressed in developing Arabidopsis thaliana or Camelina sativa seeds. Here we report the identification and characterization of a fifth wax synthase from the organism Marinobacter aquaeolei VT8, MaWSD5. It belongs to the class of bifunctional wax synthase/acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol O-acyltransferases (WSD). The protein was purified to homogeneity. In vivo and in vitro substrate analyses revealed that MaWSD5 is able to synthesize WE but no triacylglycerols. The protein produces WE from saturated and monounsaturated mid- and long-chain substrates. Arabidopsis thaliana seeds expressing a fatty acid reductase from Marinobacter aquaeolei VT8 and MaWSD5 produce WE. Main WE synthesized are 20:1/18:1 and 20:1/20:1. This makes MaWSD5 a suitable candidate for industrial WE production in planta.
BACKGROUND: The development of high-throughput sequencing technologies and, as its result, the production of huge volumes of genomic data, has accelerated biological and medical research and discovery. Study on genomic rearrangements is crucial owing to their role in chromosomal evolution, genetic disorders, and cancer.RESULTS: We present Smash++, an alignment-free and memory-efficient tool to find and visualize small- and large-scale genomic rearrangements between 2 DNA sequences. This computational solution extracts information contents of the 2 sequences, exploiting a data compression technique to find rearrangements. We also present Smash++ visualizer, a tool that allows the visualization of the detected rearrangements along with their self- and relative complexity, by generating an SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) image.CONCLUSIONS: Tested on several synthetic and real DNA sequences from bacteria, fungi, Aves, and Mammalia, the proposed tool was able to accurately find genomic rearrangements. The detected regions were in accordance with previous studies, which took alignment-based approaches or performed FISH (fluorescence in situ hybridization) analysis. The maximum peak memory usage among all experiments was ∼1 GB, which makes Smash++ feasible to run on present-day standard computers.
The Mdm4 (alias MdmX) oncoprotein, like its paralogue and interaction partner Mdm2, antagonizes the tumor suppressor p53. p53-independent roles of the Mdm proteins are emerging, and we have reported the ability of Mdm2 to modify chromatin and to support DNA replication by suppressing the formation of R-loops (DNA/RNA-hybrids). We show here that the depletion of Mdm4 in p53-deficient cells compromises DNA replication fork progression as well. Among various deletion mutants, only full-length Mdm4 was able to support DNA replication fork progression. Co-depletion of Mdm4 and Mdm2 further impaired DNA replication, and the overexpression of each partially compensated for the other's loss. Despite impairing replication, Mdm4 depletion only marginally hindered cell proliferation, likely due to compensation through increased firing of replication origins. However, depleting Mdm4 sensitized p53-/- cells to the nucleoside analog gemcitabine, raising the future perspective of using Mdm4 inhibitors as chemosensitizers. Mechanistically, Mdm4 interacts with members of the Polycomb Repressor Complexes and supports the ubiquitination of H2A, thereby preventing the accumulation of DNA/RNA-hybrids. Thus, in analogy to previously reported activities of Mdm2, Mdm4 enables unperturbed DNA replication through the avoidance of R-loops.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: In traditional use, Panax medicinal plants (ginseng, red ginseng, notoginseng, Panax japonicus, and Panacis majoris rhizoma) have different bioactivities from each other, even under different dosages, but their chemical compositions are very similar; so the question is, what is the primary effective substance induced the different efficacy, and how to identify them from a group of chemical constituents?AIM OF THE STUDY: The goal of this research was to provide a strategy to determine the effective substance in Panax genus medicinal plants responsible for the anticoagulant response.MATERIALS AND METHODS: This research used ultra-high performance liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS) to analyze the saponin chemical compositions of different concentration ethanol extraction of notoginseng and the ginseng genus medical plant 75% ethanol extraction (Panax ginseng, red ginseng, Panax japonicus, Panacis majoris rhizome), and used four coagulation factors (PT, TT, APTT, Fib) to evaluate the anticoagulant activity of the extracts. Grey correlation analysis was applied to establish the spectral effect relationship and give the anticoagulant potency of different saponins. Network pharmacology and molecular docking were adopted to clarify and verify the possible mechanisms of anticoagulant action.RESULTS: The results showed that the blood physiological regulation activities of Panax medicinal plants were different according to the solvent concentration, processing, species and dosage. Overall, the most suitable solvent for extraction of SQ was 75% ethanol; At low dosage (10-100 mg/mL), the anticoagulant effect of Panax medical plants was: ZJS > ZZS > SQ > RS > HS, and at high doses (100-1000 mg/mL) was: SQ > ZJS > ZZS > RS > HS. GRA and molecular docking results showed the contribution of some components (NG-R2, NG-Fc/G-Ra1/G-Ra2, G-Rc, G-Rk3, and G-Rh4) to the whole anticoagulant activity of the drug were increased, while the effect of CS-IVa was just decreased with the increase of dosage; the anticoagulant effect of G-Rg3 (the main anticoagulant component) is mainly related to the targets F2, AR, RHO, ACR, MB, GZMB, B2M, CA2, CAT, and PAPOLA.CONCLUSION: This study determined the effective substance of anti-coagulation of ginseng genus herbal medicines and the regulation of different anticoagulant effects of TCM by changing various influencing conditions, including processing method, extraction method, and dose. It also provided an effective strategy for effective substances identification of multicomponent, multifunction, and multipurpose herbal medicine.
Erratum in    Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2021 Jul;110(1):260-261.
The in vivo proliferation and viability of transfused engineered T cells markedly limits the long-term effect of adoptive cell therapy on tumors. The therapeutic efficacy and proliferative potential of T cells are reported to be dependent on the differentiation status of T cells. The T cells at the early stage of progressive differentiation have a long lifespan, strong proliferative potential, and the ability to reconstruct intact T cell subsets. Thus, they are more suitable for adoptive immunotherapy. Previously, it was difficult to obtain a sufficient number of early differentiated T cells by inhibiting the progressive differentiation of T cells or by two-step programming. A more effective strategy is to directly reprogram and dedifferentiate the easily available terminal effector T (TEFF) cells, which are generated in large numbers, into early T cells. This study attempted to overexpress eight (candidate) early differentiation-specific transcription factors (TFs) (LEF1, KLF7, ID3, EOMES, BCL6, TCF7, FOXP1, and FOXO1) in the TEFF cells, which were activated by in vitro stimulation, to promote dedifferentiation into early T cells. In the mature TEFF cells simultaneously overexpressing these specific TFs, the expression pattern of T cell differentiation markers (CCR7 and CD45RO) exhibited a tendency to change to the pattern observed during early differentiation. The transcriptome analysis revealed that the function of differentially expressed genes was mainly concentrated in the cell cycle, growth and development, and effector function. Moreover, many genes related to early differentiated T cells (such as BCL2 and PIM1) were significantly upregulated, while those related to the effector function of TEFF cells were significantly downregulated (such as GZMB, PRF1, and GNLY). Additionally, the TEFF cells overexpressing characteristic TFs exhibited enhanced anti-apoptotic capabilities and decreased secretion of cytokines (IFN-γ and TNF-α). Based on these results, we believe that the TEFF cells were reprogrammed into a less differentiated state after overexpression of the eight specific TFs.
Mothers living near high-traffic roads before or during pregnancy are more likely to have children with asthma. Mechanisms are unknown. Using a mouse model, here we showed that maternal exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEP) predisposed offspring to allergic airway disease (AAD, murine counterpart of human asthma) through programming of their NK cells; predisposition to AAD did not develop in DEP pups that lacked NK cells and was induced in normal pups receiving NK cells from WT DEP pups. DEP NK cells expressed GATA3 and cosecreted IL-13 and the killer protease granzyme B in response to allergen challenge. Extracellular granzyme B did not kill, but instead stimulated protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR2) to cooperate with IL-13 in the induction of IL-25 in airway epithelial cells. Through loss-of-function and reconstitution experiments in pups, we showed that NK cells and granzyme B were required for IL-25 induction and activation of the type 2 immune response and that IL-25 mediated NK cell effects on type 2 response and AAD. Finally, experiments using human cord blood and airway epithelial cells suggested that DEP might induce an identical pathway in humans. Collectively, we describe an NK cell-dependent endotype of AAD that emerged in early life as a result of maternal exposure to DEP.
Many fungi are able to produce resting structures, which ensure survival and protect them against various stresses in their habitat such as exposure to UV light, temperature variations, drought as well as changing pH and nutrient conditions. Verticillium dahliae is a plant pathogenic fungus that forms melanized resting structures, called microsclerotia, for survival of time periods without a host. These highly stress resistant microsclerotia persist in the soil for many years and are therefore problematic for an effective treatment of the fungus. The Verticillium transcription activator of adhesion 1 (Vta1) was initially identified as one of several transcriptional regulators that rescue adhesion in non-adhesive Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. Vta2 and Vta3 are required for early steps in plant infection and colonization and additionally control microsclerotia formation. Here, we show that Vta1 function is different, because it is dispensable for root colonization and infection. Vta1 is produced in the fungal cell during microsclerotia development. Analysis of the deletion mutant revealed that the absence of Vta1 allows microsclerotia production, but they are colorless and no more melanized. Vta1 is required for melanin production and activates transcription of melanin biosynthesis genes including the polyketide synthase encoding PKS1 and the laccase LAC1. The primary function of Vta1 in melanin production is important for survival of microsclerotia as resting structures of V. dahliae.
Studies of PDPN in cancers have focused on the interactions with palates through the binding with CECL-2 which mainly express on palates and immune cells, while little is known on its interactions with immune cells.PDPN expression in cancers was analyzed through Oncomine, GEPIA, and TIMER database. Prognostic value (HR, P value from log-rank test) was evaluated through Kaplan-Meier plotter and OncoLnc database. The correlations between PDPN and the infiltrating levels of immune cells in different cancers, and diverse immune markers in gastric cancer were investigated through TIMER database.High PDPN expression predicted poor overall survival (OS) and post-progression survival (PPS) particularly in gastric cancer (OS P = .0089; PPS P = .00085), especially among patients with Her-2 (+) and lymph node metastasis. In addition, PDPN was positively correlated with infiltrating levels of immune cells, other than B cells in gastric cancer. However, PDPN showed more correlations with immune markers of M2 type TAM (CD163, VSIG4, MS4A4A) and T cell exhaustion (TIM-3, TOX, and GZMB).These findings all suggest that high PDPN predicts poor survival outcomes, especially for Her-2 (+) gastric cancer patients. Though inducing M2 type TAM and T cell exhaustion, high PDPN can predict high levels of various immune cells infiltration in STAD. Those correlations may bring new ideas to immunology treatment for gastric cancer patients who do not benefit from the existing immune checkpoint inhibitors.
How the measurement of aging biomarkers in peripheral blood T-lymphocytes (PBTLs) is influenced by cell composition is unclear. Here, we collected peripheral blood and isolated CD3+ PBTLs from 117 healthy couples between the ages of 21 and 72. Each sample was profiled for Horvath epigenetic clock (DNAm), p16INK4a expression, cytomegalovirus (CMV) seropositivity and 74 mRNA markers of PBTL subtype, differentiation, immune checkpoints, and cytokine production. Correlations between individual aging biomarkers (DNAm or p16INK4a) and PBTL mRNAs were corrected for chronological age, sex, and couple. DNAm measurements correlated with CMV seropositivity as well as PBTL mRNAs indicative of effector function (CD8A, EOMES, TBX21, GZMB), poor proliferative capacity (KLRG1, CD57), differentiation (CD45RO, CD45RA), and immune checkpoints (PDCD1, TIGIT, LAG3, CD160, CD244). In contrast, only three PBTL mRNAs, CD28, CD244, and p14ARF, showed a significant association with p16INK4a. p16INK4a expression also showed a weaker association with immunosenescent PBTL subsets than DNAm in flow cytometry analyses. These data suggest that PBTL composition has a greater influence on DNAm than p16INK4a and link accelerated epigenetic aging to immunosenescent phenotypes.
BACKGROUND: The biological underpinnings of the prognostic and predictive significance of a relative neutrophilia in patients with non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) are undefined. We sought to comprehensively examine the relationships between circulating and intratumoral neutrophil populations and features of the immune contexture in patients undergoing NSCLC resection.METHODS: Preoperative soluble cytokine and angiogenic factors; tumor multiplex immunofluorescence; RNA, whole exome, and T-cell receptor sequencing; and flow cytometry were analyzed for relationships with populations of circulating (from complete blood counts) and intratumoral neutrophils (transcriptional signatures) in a prospectively enrolled resected NSCLC cohort (n=66). In a historical cohort (n=1524), preoperative circulating neutrophil and lymphocyte counts were analyzed for associations with overall survival (OS).RESULTS: Circulating neutrophil populations were positively correlated with increased tumor burden, and surgical tumor resection was followed by a subsequent reduction in peripheral neutrophil counts. Expansion of the circulating neutrophil compartment was associated with increased levels of pro-granulopoietic (IL-1β, IL-17A, TNFα, IL-6) and TH2-associated (IL-5, IL-13) cytokines. Tumors with high intratumoral neutrophil burden were marked by a blunted T-cell response characterized by reduced expression of cytotoxic T-cell genes (CD8A, CD8B, GZMA, GZMB), decreased CD3+CD8+ cell infiltration, and diminished expression of IFNγ-related genes. The associations between increased intratumoral neutrophil burden and reduced CD3+CD8+ infiltration persisted after adjustment for tumor size, histology, mutational burden, and PD-L1 expression. In 1524 patients, elevated preoperative circulating neutrophil count was independently associated with worse OS (main effect HR 1.82, 95% CI 1.24 to 2.68, p=0.002).CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that neutrophil expansion reflects protumorigenic and immunosuppressive processes that manifest as worse OS in patients undergoing NSCLC resection. These results justify further investigation of therapeutic strategies targeting neutrophil-associated immune evasion.
The NUP98 and NUP214 nucleoporins (NUPs) are recurrently fused to heterologous proteins in leukemia. The resulting chimeric oncoproteins retain the phenylalanine-glycine (FG) repeat motifs of the NUP moiety that mediate interaction with the nuclear export receptor Crm1. NUP fusion leukemias are characterized by HOXA gene upregulation; however, their molecular pathogenesis remains poorly understood. To investigate the role of Crm1 in mediating the leukemogenic properties of NUP chimeric proteins, we took advantage of the Sequestosome-1 (SQSTM1)-NUP214 fusion. SQSTM1-NUP214 retains only a short C-terminal portion of NUP214 which contains FG motifs that mediate interaction with Crm1. We introduced point mutations targeting these FG motifs and found that the ability of the resulting SQSTM1-NUP214FGmut protein to interact with Crm1 was reduced by more than 50% compared with SQSTM1-NUP214. Mutation of FG motifs affected transforming potential: while SQSTM1-NUP214 impaired myeloid maturation and conferred robust colony formation to transduced hematopoietic progenitors in a serial replating assay, the effect of SQSTM1-NUP214FGmut was considerably diminished. Moreover, SQSTM1-NUP214 caused myeloid leukemia in all transplanted mice, whereas none of the SQSTM1-NUP214FGmut reconstituted mice developed leukemia. These oncogenic effects coincided with the ability of SQSTM1-NUP214 and SQSTM1-NUP214FGmut to upregulate the expression of Hoxa and Meis1 genes in hematopoietic progenitors. Indeed, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that impaired SQSTM1-NUP214 interaction with Crm1 correlated with impaired binding of the fusion protein to Hoxa and Meis1 genes. These findings highlight the importance of Crm1 in mediating the leukemogenic properties of SQSTM1-NUP214, and suggest a conserved role of Crm1 in recruiting oncoproteins to their effector genes.
The Mdm2 oncoprotein and its association with p53 were discovered 30 years ago, and a cornucopia of activities and regulatory pathways have been associated with it. In this review, we will raise questions about Mdm2 and its cousin Mdm4 that we consider worth pursuing in future research, reaching from molecular structures and intracellular activities all the way to development, evolution, and cancer therapy. We anticipate that such research will not only close a few gaps in our knowledge but could add new dimensions to our current view. This compilation of questions contributes to the preparation for the 10th Mdm2 Workshop in Tokyo.
All land plants (embryophytes) share a common ancestor that likely evolved from a filamentous freshwater alga. Elucidating the transition from algae to embryophytes - and the eventual conquering of Earth's surface - is one of the most fundamental questions in plant evolutionary biology. Here, we investigated one of the organismal properties that might have enabled this transition: resistance to drastic temperature shifts. We explored the effect of heat stress in Mougeotia and Spirogyra, two representatives of Zygnematophyceae - the closest known algal sister lineage to land plants. Heat stress induced pronounced phenotypic alterations in their plastids, and high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy-based profiling of 565 transitions for the analysis of main central metabolites revealed significant shifts in 43 compounds. We also analyzed the global differential gene expression responses triggered by heat, generating 92.8 Gbp of sequence data and assembling a combined set of 8905 well-expressed genes. Each organism had its own distinct gene expression profile; less than one-half of their shared genes showed concordant gene expression trends. We nevertheless detected common signature responses to heat such as elevated transcript levels for molecular chaperones, thylakoid components, and - corroborating our metabolomic data - amino acid metabolism. We also uncovered the heat-stress responsiveness of genes for phosphorelay-based signal transduction that links environmental cues, calcium signatures and plastid biology. Our data allow us to infer the molecular heat stress response that the earliest land plants might have used when facing the rapidly shifting temperature conditions of the terrestrial habitat.
Kawasaki disease (KD) is a systemic vasculitis of unknown etiology which predominantly affects medium- and small-sized muscular arteries. Histopathologic studies of KD vasculitis lesions have demonstrated characteristic T cell infiltration and an abundance of CD8 T cells; however, the contribution of cytotoxic lymphocytes to KD vasculitis lesions has not been identified. Here, we histopathologically and immunohistochemically examined infiltrating inflammatory cells, particularly cytotoxic protein-positive cells, such as granzyme B cells and TIA-1 cells, in KD vasculitis lesions. Three autopsy specimens with acute-phase KD were observed and contained 24 vasculitis lesions affecting medium-sized muscular arteries, excluding pulmonary arteries. Infiltrating neutrophils in vasculitis lesions were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin staining, and monocytes/macrophages and lymphocytes were evaluated by immunohistochemistry. The predominant cells were CD163 monocytes/macrophages and CD3 T cells. CD8 T cells, granzyme B cells, and TIA-1 cells were also observed, but CD56 natural killer cells were rare. To the best of our knowledge, the current study is the first histopathologic report confirming the infiltration of inflammatory cells with cytotoxic proteins in vasculitis lesions in patients with KD. Cytotoxic T cells may play a role in the development of vasculitis lesions in KD patients.
Granzymes are a family of serine proteases first shown to be intracellular initiators of immune-mediated cell death in target pathogenic cells. In addition to its intracellular role, Granzyme B (GzmB) has important extracellular functions in immune regulation and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation. Verified substrates of extracellular GzmB activity include tight junctional and ECM proteins. Interestingly, little is known about the activity of GzmB in the outer human retina, a tissue in which the degradation of the tight junctional contacts of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and within the external limiting membrane, as well as remodeling of the ECM in Bruch's membrane, cause the breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier and slowing of metabolite transport between neuroretina and choroidal blood supply. Such pathological changes in outer retina signal early events in the development of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a multifactorial, chronic inflammatory eye disease. This study is the first to focus on the distribution of GzmB in the outer retina of the healthy and diseased post-mortem human eye. Our results revealed that GzmB is present in RPE and choroidal mast cells. More immunoreactive cells are present in older (>65 years) compared to younger (<55 years) donor eyes, and choroidal immunoreactive cells are more numerous in eyes with choroidal neovascularization (CNV), while RPE immunoreactive cells are more numerous in eyes with soft drusen, an early AMD event. In vitro studies demonstrated that RPE-derived tight junctional and ECM proteins are cleaved by exogenous GzmB stimulation. These results suggest that the increased presence of GzmB immunoreactive cells in outer retina of older (healthy) eyes as well as in diseased eyes with CNV (from AMD) and eyes with soft drusen exacerbate ECM remodeling in the Bruch's membrane and degradation of the blood-retinal barrier. Currently there are no treatments that prevent remodeling of the Bruch's membrane and/or the loss of function of the outer blood-retinal barrier, known to promote early AMD changes, such as drusen deposition, RPE dysfunction and pro-inflammation. Specific inhibitors of GzmB, already in preclinical studies for non-ocular diseases, may provide new strategies to stop these early events associated with the development of AMD.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Pinellia pedatisecta Schott extract (PE) is generated from Pinellia pedatisecta Schott, a traditional Chinese medicinal plant. PE suppresses cervical tumor growth and exhibits effects on dendritic cells (DCs) that lead to modulation of antitumor CD4+ and CD8+ responses.AIMS: To explore the underlying mechanisms by which PE modulates tumor-associated dendritic cell (TADC) activation and function.METHODS: DCs and TADCs were generated from murine bone marrow and exposed to PE solutions at different doses, as well as to repeated doses separated at different time intervals. Quantitative PCR, Western blot analysis, flow cytometry, and gene silencing were used to analyze the modulatory effects of PE on the SOCS1/JAK2/STAT pathways. Furthermore, we separated human cervical tumor-infiltrated DCs (TIDCs) and conducted an ex-vivo stimulation model to observe the effect of PE. For phenotypic analysis of cultured DCs and ex vivo human specimens, we used flow cytometry to detect the molecular markers associated with cell function.RESULTS: In cultured TADCs and human cervical TIDCs, maturation- and functional markers (MHCII, CD80, CD83, CD86, and IL-12) were downregulated, whereas SOCS1 was upregulated. PE enhanced the expression of CD80, CD86, and IL-12 in cervical TIDCs, which induced increased expression of CD107a, GZMB, and perforin in CTLs, and furthermore induced apoptosis in a larger number of tumor cells. In cultured TADCs, PE downregulated SOCS1 expression and activated the phosphorylation of JAK2, STAT1, STAT4, and STAT5 in both dose- and time-dependent manners. The effects of PE upregulating MHCII, CD80, CD86, IL-12 on TADCs were blocked after SOCS1 silencing.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, PE restored the impaired function of cervical TIDCs, thereby eliciting further antitumor CTL responses. The effects of PE on TADCs were mediated through inhibition of SOCS1 and activation of downstream JAK2-STAT1/STAT4/STAT5 pathways. PE may be a potent and effective immunomodulatory drug for antitumor treatment via the blockade of SOCS1 signaling in DCs.
Powdery mildew is a fungal disease that affects a wide range of plants and reduces crop yield worldwide. As obligate biotrophs, powdery mildew fungi manipulate living host cells to suppress defence responses and to obtain nutrients. Members of the plant order Brassicales produce indole glucosinolates that effectively protect them from attack by non-adapted fungi. Indol-3-ylmethyl glucosinolate is constitutively produced in the phloem and transported to epidermal cells for storage. Upon attack, indol-3-ylmethyl glucosinolate is activated by CYP81F2 to provide broad-spectrum defence against fungi. How de novo biosynthesis and transport contribute to defence of powdery mildew-attacked epidermal cells is unknown. Bioassays and glucosinolate analysis demonstrate that GTR glucosinolate transporters are not involved in antifungal defence. Using quantitative live-cell imaging of fluorophore-tagged markers, we show that accumulation of the glucosinolate biosynthetic enzymes CYP83B1 and SUR1 is induced in epidermal cells attacked by the non-adapted barley powdery mildew Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei. By contrast, glucosinolate biosynthesis is attenuated during interaction with the virulent powdery mildew Golovinomyces orontii. Interestingly, SUR1 induction is delayed during the Golovinomyces orontii interaction. We conclude that epidermal de novo synthesis of indol-3-ylmethyl glucosinolate contributes to CYP81F2-mediated broad-spectrum antifungal resistance and that adapted powdery mildews may target this process.
Aim: We here hypothesized that tumor-derived exosomal miRNA (TexomiR) released from irradiated tumors may play a role in the tumor cells escape to natural killer (NK) cells. Materials & methods: Our study included the use of different cancer cell lines, blood biopsies of xenograph mice model and patients treated with radiotherapy. Results: The irradiation of cancer cells promotes the TET2-mediated demethylation of miR-378 promoter, miR-378a-3p overexpression and its loading in exosomes, inducing the decrease of granzyme-B (GZMB) secretion by NK cells. An inverse correlation between TexomiR-378a-3p and GZMB was observed in murine and human blood samples. Conclusion: Our work identifies TexomiR-378a-3p as a molecular signature associated with the loss of NK cells cytotoxicity via the decrease of GZMB expression upon radiotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Tumor microenvironment (TME) cells play important roles in tumor progression. Accumulating evidence show that they can be exploited to predict the clinical outcomes and therapeutic responses of the tumor. However, the role of immune genes of TME in small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is currently unknown.OBJECTIVE: To determine the role of immune genes in SCLC.METHODS: We downloaded the expression profile and clinical follow-up data of SCLC patients from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), and TME infiltration profile data of 158 patients using CIBERSORT. The correlation between TME phenotypes, genomic features, and clinicopathological features of SCLC was examined. A gene signature was constructed based on TME genes to further evaluate the relationship between molecular subtypes of SCLC with the prognosis and clinical features.RESULTS: We identified a group of genes that are highly associated with TME. Several immune cells in TME cells were significantly correlated with SCLC prognosis (p<0.0001). These immune cells displayed diverse immune patterns. Three molecular subtypes of SCLC (TMEC1-3) were identified on the basis of enrichment of immune cell components, and these subtypes showed dissimilar prognosis profiles (p=0.03). The subtype with the best prognosis, TMEC3, was enriched with immune activation factors such as oncogene M0, oncogene M2, T cells follicular helper, and T cells CD8 (p<0.001). The TMEC1 subtype with the worst prognosis was enriched with T cells CD4 naive, B cells memory and Dendritic cells activated cells (p<0.001). Further analysis showed that the TME was significantly enriched with immune checkpoint genes, immune genes, and immune pathway genes (p<0.01). From the gene expression data, we identified four TME-related genes, GZMB, HAVCR2, PRF1 and TBX2, which were significantly associated with poor prognosis in both the training set and the validation set (p<0.05). These genes may serve as markers for monitoring tumor responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors.CONCLUSION: This study shows that TME features may serve as markers for evaluating the response of SCLC cells to immunotherapy.
Polar tip growth of pollen tubes is regulated by the membrane phospholipid phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(4,5)P2), which localizes in a well-defined region of the subapical plasma membrane. How the PtdIns(4,5)P2 region is maintained is currently unclear. In principle, the formation of PtdIns(4,5)P2 by PI4P 5-kinases can be counteracted by phospholipase C (PLC), which hydrolyzes PtdIns(4,5)P2. Here, we show that fluorescence-tagged tobacco NtPLC3 displays a subapical plasma membrane distribution which frames that of fluorescence-tagged PI4P 5-kinases, suggesting that NtPLC3 may modulate PtdIns(4,5)P2-mediated processes in pollen tubes. The expression of a dominant negative NtPLC3 variant resulted in pollen tube tip swelling, consistent with a delimiting effect on PtdIns(4,5)P2 production. When pollen tube morphologies were assessed as a quantitative read-out for PtdIns(4,5)P2 function, NtPLC3 reverted the effects of a coexpressed PI4P 5-kinase, demonstrating that NtPLC3-mediated breakdown of PtdIns(4,5)P2 antagonizes the effects of PtdIns(4,5)P2 overproduction in vivo. When analyzed by spinning disc microscopy, fluorescence-tagged NtPLC3 displayed discontinuous membrane distribution omitting punctate areas of the membrane, suggesting that NtPLC3 is involved in the spatial restriction of plasma membrane domains also at the nanodomain scale. Together, the data indicate that NtPLC3 may contribute to the spatial restriction of PtdIns(4,5)P2 in the subapical plasma membrane of pollen tubes.
Potassium and glutamate are the major cation and anion, respectively, in every living cell. Due to the high concentrations of both ions, the cytoplasm of all cells can be regarded as a potassium glutamate solution. This implies that the concentrations of both ions need to be balanced. While the control of potassium uptake by glutamate is well established for eukaryotic cells, much less is known about the mechanisms that link potassium homeostasis to glutamate availability in bacteria. Here, we have discovered that the availability of glutamate strongly decreases the minimal external potassium concentration required for the highly abundant Bacillus subtilis potassium channel KtrCD to accumulate potassium. In contrast, the inducible KtrAB and KimA potassium uptake systems have high apparent affinities for potassium even in the absence of glutamate. Experiments with mutant strains revealed that the KtrD subunit responds to the presence of glutamate. For full activity, KtrD synergistically requires the presence of the regulatory subunit KtrC and of glutamate. The analysis of suppressor mutants of a strain that has KtrCD as the only potassium uptake system and that experiences severe potassium starvation identified a mutation in the ion selectivity filter of KtrD (Gly282 to Val) that similarly results in a strongly glutamate-independent increase of the apparent affinity for potassium. Thus, this work has identified two conditions that increase the apparent affinity of KtrCD for potassium, i.e., external glutamate and the acquisition of a single point mutation in KtrD.IMPORTANCE In each living cell, potassium is required for maintaining the intracellular pH and for the activity of essential enzymes. Like most other bacteria, Bacillus subtilis possesses multiple low- and high-affinity potassium uptake systems. Their activity is regulated by the second messenger cyclic di-AMP. Moreover, the pools of the most abundant ions potassium and glutamate must be balanced. We report two conditions under which the low-affinity potassium channel KtrCD is able to mediate potassium uptake at low external potassium concentrations: physiologically, the presence of glutamate results in a severely increased potassium uptake. Moreover, this is achieved by a mutation affecting the selectivity filter of the KtrD channel. These results highlight the integration between potassium and glutamate homeostasis in bacteria.
The second messenger cyclic di-AMP (c-di-AMP) is essential for growth of many bacteria because it controls osmolyte homeostasis. c-di-AMP can regulate the synthesis of potassium uptake systems in some bacteria and it also directly inhibits and activates potassium import and export systems, respectively. Therefore, c-di-AMP production and degradation have to be tightly regulated depending on the environmental osmolarity. The Gram-positive pathogen Listeria monocytogenes relies on the membrane-bound diadenylate cyclase CdaA for c-di-AMP production and degrades the nucleotide with two phosphodiesterases. While the enzymes producing and degrading the dinucleotide have been reasonably well examined, the regulation of c-di-AMP production is not well understood yet. Here we demonstrate that the extracytoplasmic regulator CdaR interacts with CdaA via its transmembrane helix to modulate c-di-AMP production. Moreover, we show that the phosphoglucosamine mutase GlmM forms a complex with CdaA and inhibits the diadenylate cyclase activity in vitro. We also found that GlmM inhibits c-di-AMP production in L. monocytogenes when the bacteria encounter osmotic stress. Thus, GlmM is the major factor controlling the activity of CdaA in vivo. GlmM can be assigned to the class of moonlighting proteins because it is active in metabolism and adjusts the cellular turgor depending on environmental osmolarity.
The plant cuticle is the first physical barrier between land plants and their terrestrial environment. It consists of the polyester scaffold cutin embedded and sealed with organic, solvent-extractable cuticular waxes. Cuticular wax ultrastructure and chemical composition differ with plant species, developmental stage and physiological state. Despite this complexity, cuticular wax consistently serves a critical role in restricting nonstomatal water loss. It also protects the plant against other environmental stresses, including desiccation, UV radiation, microorganisms and insects. Within the broader context of plant responses to abiotic and biotic stresses, our knowledge of the explicit roles of wax crystalline structures and chemical compounds is lacking. In this review, we summarize our current knowledge of wax biosynthesis and regulation in relation to abiotic and biotic stresses and stress responses.
Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) proteins have critical functions in plastids, notably participating in photosynthetic electron transfer, sulfur and nitrogen assimilation, chlorophyll metabolism, and vitamin or amino acid biosynthesis. Their maturation relies on the so-called SUF (sulfur mobilization) assembly machinery. Fe-S clusters are synthesized de novo on a scaffold protein complex and then delivered to client proteins via several transfer proteins. However, the maturation pathways of most client proteins and their specificities for transfer proteins are mostly unknown. In order to decipher the proteins interacting with the Fe-S cluster transfer protein NFU2, one of the three plastidial representatives found in Arabidopsis thaliana, we performed a quantitative proteomic analysis of shoots, roots, and seedlings of nfu2 plants, combined with NFU2 co-immunoprecipitation and binary yeast two-hybrid experiments. We identified 14 new targets, among which nine were validated in planta using a binary bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay. These analyses also revealed a possible role for NFU2 in the plant response to desiccation. Altogether, this study better delineates the maturation pathways of many chloroplast Fe-S proteins, considerably extending the number of NFU2 clients. It also helps to clarify the respective roles of the three NFU paralogs NFU1, NFU2, and NFU3.
Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) lenalidomide and pomalidomide show remarkable antitumor activity in multiple myeloma (MM) via directly inhibiting MM-cell growth in the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment and promoting immune effector cell function. They are known to bind to the ubiquitin 3 ligase CRBN complex and thereby triggering degradation of IKZF1/3. In this study, we demonstrate that IMiDs also directly bind and activate zeta-chain-associated protein kinase-70 (Zap-70) via its tyrosine residue phosphorylation in T cells. IMiDs also triggered phosphorylation of Zap-70 in natural killer (NK) cells. Importantly, increased granzyme-B (GZM-B) expression and NK-cell activity triggered by IMiDs is associated with Zap-70 activation and inhibited by Zap-70 knockdown (KD), independent of CRBN. We also demonstrate a second mechanism whereby IMiDs trigger GZM-B and NK cytotoxicity which is CRBN and IKZF3 mediated, and inhibited or enhanced by KD of CRBN or IKZF3, respectively, independent of Zap-70. Our studies therefore show that IMiDs can enhance NK and T-cell cytotoxicity in (1) ZAP-70-mediated CRBN independent, as well as (2) CRBN-mediated ZAP-70 independent mechanisms; and provide the framework for developing novel therapeutics to activate Zap-70 and thereby enhance T and NK anti-MM cytotoxicity.
Seeds of the desert shrub, jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis), are an abundant, renewable source of liquid wax esters, which are valued additives in cosmetic products and industrial lubricants. Jojoba is relegated to its own taxonomic family, and there is little genetic information available to elucidate its phylogeny. Here, we report the high-quality, 887-Mb genome of jojoba assembled into 26 chromosomes with 23,490 protein-coding genes. The jojoba genome has only the whole-genome triplication (γ) shared among eudicots and no recent duplications. These genomic resources coupled with extensive transcriptome, proteome, and lipidome data helped to define heterogeneous pathways and machinery for lipid synthesis and storage, provided missing evolutionary history information for this taxonomically segregated dioecious plant species, and will support efforts to improve the agronomic properties of jojoba.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2020 May;20(5):274-275.    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2020 May;19(5):309.    Cell Res. 2020 Jun;30(6):463-464.    Signal Transduct Target Ther. 2020 May 13;5(1):69.
Author information:(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, Cumhuriyet University Faculty of Medicine, Sivas-Turkey.(2)Department of Biochemistry, Cumhuriyet University Faculty of Medicine, Sivas-Turkey.
AIM: Protracted bacterial bronchitis (PBB) is considered a potential precursor to bronchiectasis (BE) in some children. We previously showed that alveolar macrophages (AM) from children with PBB or BE have a similar significant defect in phagocytic capacity, with proinflammatory associations. We hypothesized that the mechanisms responsible for this defect involve dysregulation of the sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) signaling pathway, as we have found in adult inflammatory lung diseases.METHOD: We employed a Custom TaqMan OpenArray to investigate gene expression of S1P-generating enzymes: sphingosine kinases (SPHK) 1/2, S1P phosphatase 2 (SGPP2), S1P lyase 1 (SGPL1), S1P receptors (S1PR) 1/2/4/5; proinflammatory cytokines TNF-α (TNF) and IFNγ (IFNG), the cytotoxic mediator granzyme B (GZMB), and inflammasomes AIM2 and NLRP3, in bronchoalveolar lavage from 15 children with BE, 15 with PBB and 17 age-matched controls, and determined association with clinical/demographic variables and airway inflammation.RESULT: Significantly increased expression of S1PR1, S1PR2, and SPHK1 was noted in PBB and BE AM vs controls with increased SGPP2 only in PBB. TNF, IFNG, AIM2, and NLRP3 were significantly increased in both disease groups with increased GZMB only in PBB. There were no significant differences in the expression of any other S1P-related mediator between groups. There were significant positive associations between Haemophilus influenzae growth and expression of S1PR1 and NLRP3; between S1PR1 and S1PR2, NLRP3 and IFNG; between S1PR2 and AIM2, SPHK1, and SPHK2; and between SPHK1 and GZMB, IFNG, AIM2, and NLRP3.CONCLUSION: Children with PBB and BE share similar S1P-associated gene expression profiles. AM phagocytic dysfunction and inflammation in these children may occur due to dysregulated S1P signaling.
Nuclear import of viral genomes is an important step during the life cycle of adenoviruses (AdV), requiring soluble cellular factors as well as proteins of the nuclear pore complex (NPC). We addressed the role of the cytoplasmic nucleoporin Nup358 during adenoviral genome delivery by performing depletion/reconstitution experiments and time-resolved quantification of adenoviral genome import. Nup358-depleted cells displayed reduced efficiencies of nuclear import of adenoviral genomes, and the nuclear import receptor transportin 1 became rate limiting under these conditions. Furthermore, we identified a minimal N-terminal region of Nup358 that was sufficient to compensate for the import defect. Our data support a model where Nup358 functions as an assembly platform that promotes the formation of transport complexes, allowing AdV to exploit a physiological protein import pathway for accelerated transport of its DNA.IMPORTANCE Nuclear import of viral genomes is an essential step to initiate productive infection for several nuclear replicating DNA viruses. On the other hand, DNA is not a physiological nuclear import substrate; consequently, viruses have to exploit existing physiological transport routes. Here, we show that adenoviruses use the nucleoporin Nup358 to increase the efficiency of adenoviral genome import. In its absence, genome import efficiency is reduced and the transport receptor transportin 1 becomes rate limiting. We show that the N-terminal half of Nup358 is sufficient to drive genome import and identify a transportin 1 binding region. In our model, adenovirus genome import exploits an existing protein import pathway and Nup358 serves as an assembly platform for transport complexes.
High-dose dexamethasone (DEX) is used to treat chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting or to control immunotherapy-related autoimmune diseases in clinical practice. However, the underlying mechanisms of high-dose DEX in tumor progression remain unaddressed. Therefore, we explored the effects of high-dose DEX on tumor progression and the potential mechanisms of its anti-tumor function using immunohistochemistry, histological examination, real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), and Western blotting. Tumor volume, blood vessel invasion, and levels of the cell proliferation markers Ki67 and c-Myc and the anti-apoptotic marker Bcl2 decreased in response to high-dose DEX. However, the cell apoptosis marker cleaved caspase 3 increased significantly in mice treated with 50 mg/kg DEX compared with controls. Some genes associated with immune responses were significantly downregulated following treatment with 50 mg/kg DEX e.g., Cxcl9, Cxcl10, Cd3e, Gzmb, Ifng, Foxp3, S100a9, Arg1, and Mrc1. In contrast, the M1-like tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) activation marker Nos2 was shown to be increased. Moreover, the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors α and γ (Pparα and Pparg, respectively) was shown to be significantly upregulated in livers or tumors treated with DEX. However, high-dose DEX treatment decreased the expression of glucose and lipid metabolic pathway-related genes such as glycolysis-associated genes (Glut1, Hk2, Pgk1, Idh3a), triglyceride (TG) synthesis genes (Gpam, Agpat2, Dgat1), exogenous free fatty acid (FFA) uptake-related genes (Fabp1, Slc27a4, and CD36), and fatty acid oxidation (FAO) genes (Acadm, Acaa1, Cpt1a, Pnpla2). In addition, increased serum glucose and decreased serum TG and non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) were observed in DEX treated-xenografted tumor mice. These findings indicate that high-dose DEX-inhibited tumor progression is a complicated process, not only activated by M1-like TAMs, but also decreased by the uptake and consumption of glucose and lipids that block the raw material and energy supply of cancer cells. Activated M1-like TAMs and inefficient glucose and lipid metabolism delayed tumor cell growth and promoted apoptosis. These findings have important implications for the application of DEX combined with drugs that target key metabolism pathways for tumor therapy in clinical practice.
Epichloë festucae is an endophytic fungus that forms a symbiotic association with Lolium perenne. Here we analysed how the metabolome of the ryegrass apoplast changed upon infection of this host with sexual and asexual isolates of E. festucae. A metabolite fingerprinting approach was used to analyse the metabolite composition of apoplastic wash fluid from uninfected and infected L. perenne. Metabolites enriched or depleted in one or both of these treatments were identified using a set of interactive tools. A genetic approach in combination with tandem MS was used to identify a novel product of a secondary metabolite gene cluster. Metabolites likely to be present in the apoplast were identified using MarVis in combination with the BioCyc and KEGG databases, and an in-house Epichloë metabolite database. We were able to identify the known endophyte-specific metabolites, peramine and epichloëcyclins, as well as a large number of unknown markers. To determine whether these methods can be applied to the identification of novel Epichloë-derived metabolites, we deleted a gene encoding a NRPS (lgsA) that is highly expressed in planta. Comparative MS analysis of apoplastic wash fluid from wild-type- vs mutant-infected plants identified a novel Leu/Ile glycoside metabolite present in the former.
Plant oils represent an energy-rich and carbon-dense group of hydrophobic compounds. These oils are not only of economic interest, but also play important, fundamental roles in plant and algal growth and development. The subcellular storage compartments of plant lipids, referred to as lipid droplets (LDs), have long been considered relatively inert oil vessels. However, research in the last decade has revealed that LDs play far more dynamic roles in plant biology than previously appreciated, including transient neutral lipid storage, membrane remodeling, lipid signaling, and stress responses. Here we discuss recent developments in the understanding of LD formation, turnover and function in land plants and algae.
Emerin is one of the best characterized proteins of the inner nuclear membrane, but can also occur at the level of the endoplasmic reticulum. We now use enhanced ascorbate peroxidase 2 (APEX2) to probe the environment of emerin. APEX2 can be used as a genetic tag that produces short-lived yet highly reactive biotin species, allowing the modification of proteins that interact with or are in very close proximity to the tagged protein. Biotinylated proteins can be isolated using immobilized streptavidin and analyzed by mass spectrometry. As an alternative to the standard approach with a genetic fusion of APEX2 to emerin, we also used RAPIDS (rapamycin- and APEX-dependent identification of proteins by SILAC), a method with improved specificity, where the peroxidase interacts with the protein of interest (i.e., emerin) only upon addition of rapamycin to the cells. We compare these different approaches, which, together, identify well-known interaction partners of emerin like lamin A and the lamina associated polypeptide 1 (LAP1), as well as novel proximity partners.
Pregnancy induces alterations in peripheral T-cell populations with both changes in subset frequencies and anti-viral responses found to alter with gestation. In HIV-1 positive women anti-HIV-1 responses are associated with transmission risk, however detailed investigation into both HIV-1-specific memory responses associated with HIV-1 control and T-cell subset changes during pregnancy have not been undertaken. In this study we aimed to define pregnancy and gestation related changes to HIV-1-specific responses and T-cell phenotype in ART treated HIV-1 positive pregnant women. Eleven non-pregnant and 24 pregnant HIV-1 positive women were recruited, peripheral blood samples taken, fresh cells isolated, and compared using ELISpot assays and flow cytometry analysis. Clinical data were collected as part of standard care, and non-parametric statistics used. Alterations in induced IFNγ, IL-2, IL-10, and granzyme B secretion by peripheral blood mononuclear cells in response to HIV-1 Gag and Nef peptide pools and changes in T-cell subsets between pregnant and non-pregnant women were assessed, with data correlated with participant clinical parameters and longitudinal analysis performed. Cross-sectional comparison identified decreased IL-10 Nef response in HIV-1 positive pregnant women compared to non-pregnant, while correlations exhibited reversed Gag and Nef cytokine and protease response associations between groups. Longitudinal analysis of pregnant participants demonstrated transient increases in Gag granzyme B response and in the central memory CD4 T-cell subset frequency during their second trimester, with a decrease in CD4 effector memory T cells from their second to third trimester. Gag and Nef HIV-1-specific responses diverge with pregnancy time-point, coinciding with relevant T-cell phenotype, and gestation associated immunological adaptations. Decreased IL-10 Nef and both increased granzyme B Gag response and central memory CD4 T cells implies that amplified antigen production is occurring, which suggests a period of compromised HIV-1 control in pregnancy.
Erratum in    EBioMedicine. 2022 Mar;77:103905.
The significant response of immunotherapy is currently limited to a small number of patients, which has a high degree of selectivity. Therefore, distinguishing the immune subtypes of the tumor is necessary for patients who may benefit from immune checkpoint therapy. Clinical data and RNA expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GENE EXPRESSION OMNIBUS (GEO) databases were used to study the relationship of immune regulatory pathways with immune subtypes, and the effects on the prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. Eight immune checkpoint coding genes (ICGs) were obtained that closely related to prognosis. Adaptive immune pathway genes (CD8A, CD68, GZMB, and NOS2) show significant positive correlation with most of ICGs. Therefore, adaptive immune pathway genes may play a certain regulatory role in the expression of ICGs. Among the four immune subtypes, the group with low expression level of PD-L1, IDO1 and CTLA4, and high expression of CD8A had showed the best prognosis. The prognosis was the worst in the group with low expression of PD-L1, IDO1 and CTLA4, and showed low expression of CD8A. This research proposed a method to analyze the gene expression profile of immune checkpoints. The present method can be applied to identify the relationship between immune subtype of HCC and the prognosis, providing basis for gene immunotherapy in HCC patients.
AIM: Tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) are prominent immune cells infiltrating in solid tumours with phenotypic and functional heterogeneity. However, the clinical significance of heterogeneous subtypes of TAMs in gastric cancer still remains obscure. Here, we aimed to explore the clinical significance of TAMs expressing dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule 3-grabbing non-integrin (DC-SIGN) and its relevance with immune contexture in gastric cancer.METHODS: We selected 453 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded samples and 51 fresh tissue specimens of patients with gastric cancer from Zhongshan Hospital. The association of DC-SIGN+ macrophages with clinicopathological parameters, overall survival (OS) and responsiveness to fluorouracil-based adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) was inspected. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and flow cytometry (FCM) were applied to characterize immune cells in gastric cancer.RESULTS: We demonstrated that high intratumoral DC-SIGN+ macrophages infiltration predicted poor OS and inferior therapeutic responsiveness to fluorouracil-based ACT in patients with gastric cancer. Furthermore, higher infiltration of DC-SIGN+ macrophages indicated an increased number of Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs), CD8+ T cells and a higher ratio of Foxp3+/CD8+ within the tumour microenvironment (TME). In addition, CD8+ T cells in DC-SIGN+ macrophages high subgroup were functionally impaired, showing decreased interferon-γ (IFN-γ), granzyme B (GZMB) and perforin production yet elevated programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) expression.CONCLUSIONS: DC-SIGN+ macrophages were associated with immunoinvasive TME and indicated poor prognosis and inferior therapeutic responsiveness to fluorouracil-based ACT. DC-SIGN+ macrophages might be an independent prognosticator and a potential immunotherapeutic target for gastric cancer.
The COP9 signalosome (CSN) is a conserved eukaryotic complex, essential for vitality in all multicellular organisms and critical for the turnover of key cellular proteins through catalytic and non-catalytic activities. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a powerful model organism for studying fundamental aspects of the CSN complex, since it includes a conserved enzymatic core but lacks non-catalytic activities, probably explaining its non-essentiality for life. A previous transcriptomic analysis of an S. cerevisiae strain deleted in the CSN5/RRI1 gene, encoding to the CSN catalytic subunit, revealed a downregulation of genes involved in lipid metabolism. We now show that the S. cerevisiae CSN holocomplex is essential for cellular lipid homeostasis. Defects in CSN assembly or activity lead to decreased quantities of ergosterol and unsaturated fatty acids (UFA); vacuole defects; diminished lipid droplets (LDs) size; and to accumulation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. The molecular mechanism behind these findings depends on CSN involvement in upregulating mRNA expression of SPT23. Spt23 is a novel activator of lipid desaturation and ergosterol biosynthesis. Our data reveal for the first time a functional link between the CSN holocomplex and Spt23. Moreover, CSN-dependent upregulation of SPT23 transcription is necessary for the fine-tuning of lipid homeostasis and for cellular health.
The presence and activity of CD8+ T cells within the tumor microenvironment are essential for the control of tumor growth. Utilizing B16-F10 melanoma tumors that express altered peptide ligands of chicken ovalbumin, OVA257-264, we measured high- and low-affinity OVA-specific responses following adoptive transfer of OT-I CD8+ T cell into mice subsequently challenged with tumors. T-cell receptor (TCR) affinity positively correlated with the frequency of OT-I tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL). Differences in TCR affinity inversely corresponded to in vivo tumor growth rate. Blockade of the PD-1 and CTLA-4 checkpoints preferentially increased the frequency and antitumor function of TIL responding to high-affinity antigens, while failing to enhance the antitumor activity of low-affinity T cells. To determine whether lowering the TCR activation threshold could enhance the breadth and magnitude of the antitumor T-cell response, we inhibited Src homology region 2 domain-containing phosphatase 1 (SHP-1) in OT-I T cells prior to tumor antigen exposure. SHP-1 knockdown increased the cytokine-producing potential of high- and low-affinity T cells but failed to enhance control of tumor growth. In contrast, when SHP-1 knockdown of OT-I T cells was combined with immunotherapy, we observed a significant and long-lasting suppression of tumor growth mediated by low-affinity T cells. We conclude that lowering the TCR activation threshold by targeting SHP-1 expands the repertoire of T cells available to respond to conventional checkpoint blockade, leading to enhanced control of tumor growth.
Plasmodium spp., the causative agent of malaria, have a complex life cycle. The exponential growth of the parasites during the blood stage is responsible for almost all malaria-associated morbidity and mortality. Therefore, tight immune control of the intraerythrocytic replication of the parasite is essential to prevent clinical malaria. Despite evidence that the particular lymphocyte subset of γδ T cells contributes to protective immunity during the blood stage in naive hosts, their precise inhibitory mechanisms remain unclear. Using human PBMCs, we confirmed in this study that γδ T cells specifically and massively expanded upon activation with Plasmodium falciparum culture supernatant. We also demonstrate that these activated cells gain cytolytic potential by upregulating cytotoxic effector proteins and IFN-γ. The killer cells bound to infected RBCs and killed intracellular P. falciparum via the transfer of the granzymes, which was mediated by granulysin in a stage-specific manner. Several vital plasmodial proteins were efficiently destroyed by granzyme B, suggesting proteolytic degradation of these proteins as essential in the lymphocyte-mediated death pathway. Overall, these data establish a granzyme- and granulysin-mediated innate immune mechanism exerted by γδ T cells to kill late-stage blood-residing P. falciparum.
Sexual reproduction is pervasive in animals and has led to the evolution of sexual dimorphism. In most animals, males and females show marked differences in primary and secondary sexual traits. The formation of sex-specific organs and eventually sex-specific behaviors is defined during the development of an organism. Sex determination processes have been extensively studied in a few well-established model organisms. While some key molecular regulators are conserved across animals, the initiation of sex determination is highly diverse. To reveal the mechanisms underlying the development of sexual dimorphism and to identify the evolutionary forces driving the evolution of different sexes, sex determination mechanisms must thus be studied in detail in many different animal species beyond the typical model systems. In this perspective article, we argue that spiders represent an excellent group of animals in which to study sex determination mechanisms. We show that spiders are sexually dimorphic in various morphological, behavioral, and life history traits. The availability of an increasing number of genomic and transcriptomic resources and functional tools provides a great starting point to scrutinize the extensive sexual dimorphism present in spiders on a mechanistic level. We provide an overview of the current knowledge of sex determination in spiders and propose approaches to reveal the molecular and genetic underpinnings of sexual dimorphism in these exciting animals.
The DEAD-box protein Dbp5 (human DDX19) remodels RNA-protein complexes. Dbp5 functions in ribonucleoprotein export and translation termination. Termination occurs, when the ribosome has reached a stop codon through the Dbp5 mediated delivery of the eukaryotic termination factor eRF1. eRF1 contacts eRF3 upon dissociation of Dbp5, resulting in polypeptide chain release and subsequent ribosomal subunit splitting. Mutations in DBP5 lead to stop codon readthrough, because the eRF1 and eRF3 interaction is not controlled and occurs prematurely. This identifies Dbp5/DDX19 as a possible potent drug target for nonsense suppression therapy. Neurodegenerative diseases and cancer are caused in many cases by the loss of a gene product, because its mRNA contained a premature termination codon (PTC) and is thus eliminated through the nonsense mediated decay (NMD) pathway, which is described in the second half of this review. We discuss translation termination and NMD in the light of Dbp5/DDX19 and subsequently speculate on reducing Dbp5/DDX19 activity to allow readthrough of the PTC and production of a full-length protein to detract the RNA from NMD as a possible treatment for diseases.
Anterior patterning in animals is based on a gene regulatory network, which comprises highly conserved transcription factors like six3, pax6 and otx. More recently, foxQ2 was found to be an ancestral component of this network but its regulatory interactions showed evolutionary differences. In most animals, foxQ2 is a downstream target of six3 and knockdown leads to mild or no epidermal phenotypes. In contrast, in the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, foxQ2 gained a more prominent role in patterning leading to strong epidermal and brain phenotypes and being required for six3 expression. However, it has remained unclear which of these novel aspects were insect or arthropod specific. Here, we study expression and RNAi phenotype of the single foxQ2 ortholog of the spider Parasteatoda tepidariorum. We find early anterior expression similar to the one of insects. Further, we show an epidermal phenotype in the labrum similar to the insect phenotype. However, our data indicate that foxQ2 is positioned downstream of six3 like in other animals but unlike insects. Hence, the epidermal and neural pattering function of foxQ2 is ancestral for arthropods while the upstream role of foxQ2 may have evolved in the lineage leading to the insects.
We study the number Nk of length-k word matches between pairs of evolutionarily related DNA sequences, as a function of k. We show that the Jukes-Cantor distance between two genome sequences-i.e. the number of substitutions per site that occurred since they evolved from their last common ancestor-can be estimated from the slope of a function F that depends on Nk and that is affine-linear within a certain range of k. Integers kmin and kmax can be calculated depending on the length of the input sequences, such that the slope of F in the relevant range can be estimated from the values F(kmin) and F(kmax). This approach can be generalized to so-called Spaced-word Matches (SpaM), where mismatches are allowed at positions specified by a user-defined binary pattern. Based on these theoretical results, we implemented a prototype software program for alignment-free sequence comparison called Slope-SpaM. Test runs on real and simulated sequence data show that Slope-SpaM can accurately estimate phylogenetic distances for distances up to around 0.5 substitutions per position. The statistical stability of our results is improved if spaced words are used instead of contiguous words. Unlike previous alignment-free methods that are based on the number of (spaced) word matches, Slope-SpaM produces accurate results, even if sequences share only local homologies.
Natural killer (NK) cells play a pivotal role in controlling cancer. Multiple extracellular receptors and internal signaling nodes tightly regulate NK activation. Cyclin-dependent kinases of the mediator complex (CDK8 and CDK19) were described as a signaling intermediates in NK cells. Here, we report for the first time the development and use of CDK8/19 inhibitors to suppress phosphorylation of STAT1S727 in NK cells and to augment the production of the cytolytic molecules perforin and granzyme B (GZMB). Functionally, this resulted in enhanced NK-cell-mediated lysis of primary leukemia cells. Treatment with the CDK8/19 inhibitor BI-1347 increased the response rate and survival of mice bearing melanoma and breast cancer xenografts. In addition, CDK8/19 inhibition augmented the antitumoral activity of anti-PD-1 antibody and SMAC mimetic therapy, both agents that promote T-cell-mediated antitumor immunity. Treatment with the SMAC mimetic compound BI-8382 resulted in an increased number of NK cells infiltrating EMT6 tumors. Combination of the CDK8/19 inhibitor BI-1347, which augments the amount of degranulation enzymes, with the SMAC mimetic BI-8382 resulted in increased survival of mice carrying the EMT6 breast cancer model. The observed survival benefit was dependent on an intermittent treatment schedule of BI-1347, suggesting the importance of circumventing a hyporesponsive state of NK cells. These results suggest that CDK8/19 inhibitors can be combined with modulators of the adaptive immune system to inhibit the growth of solid tumors, independent of their activity on cancer cells, but rather through promoting NK-cell function.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is effective in the treatment of cancers of hematopoietic origin. In the immunosuppressive solid tumor environment, CAR T cells encounter obstacles that compromise their efficacy. We developed a strategy to address these barriers by having CAR T cells secrete single-domain antibody fragments [variable heavy domain of heavy chain antibodies (VHH) or nanobodies] that can modify the intratumoral immune landscape and thus support CAR T-cell function in immunocompetent animals. VHHs are small in size and able to avoid domain swapping when multiple nanobodies are expressed simultaneously-features that can endow CAR T cells with desirable properties. The secretion of an anti-CD47 VHH by CAR T cells improves engagement of the innate immune system, enables epitope spreading, and can enhance the antitumor response. CAR T cells that secrete anti-PD-L1 or anti-CTLA-4 nanobodies show improved persistence and demonstrate the versatility of this approach. Furthermore, local delivery of secreted anti-CD47 VHH-Fc fusions by CAR T cells at the tumor site limits their systemic toxicity. CAR T cells can be further engineered to simultaneously secrete multiple modalities, allowing for even greater tailoring of the antitumor immune response.
PURPOSE: Tissue-resident memory T (TRM) cells are a newly described subset of memory T cells. The best characterized TRM cells are CD8+ and express CD103 and CD69. These cells are non-recirculating and persist long term in tissues, providing immediate protection against invading pathogens. However, their inappropriate activation might contribute to the pathogenesis of autoimmune and inflammatory disorders. In the skin, these cells have been described in psoriasis, vitiligo, and melanoma among other diseases.METHODS: Literature review was done to highlight what is currently known on the phenotype and function of TRM cells and summarizes the available data describing their role in various cutaneous conditions.RESULTS: Resolved psoriatic skin and disease-naïve non-lesional skin contain a population of IL-17-producing TRM cells with shared receptor sequences that recognize common antigens and likely contribute to disease recurrence after cessation of therapy. In vitiligo, TRM cells produce perforin, granzyme B, and interferon-γ following stimulation by interleukin-15 and collaborate with recirculating memory T cells to maintain disease. In melanoma, increased accumulation of TRM cells was recently shown to correlate with improved survival in patients undergoing therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors.
Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are important for immune responses against microbial infections. Although known to undergo marked numerical changes with age in humans, our understanding of how MAIT cells are altered during different phases across the human life span is largely unknown. Although also abundant in the tissues, our study focuses on MAIT cell analyses in blood. Across the human life span, we show that naive-like MAIT cells in umbilical cord blood switch to a central/effector memory-like profile that is sustained into older age. Whereas low-grade levels of plasma cytokine/chemokine were apparent in older donors (>65 y old), surprisingly, they did not correlate with the ex vivo MAIT hyperinflammatory cytokine profile observed in older adults. Removal of MAIT cells from older individuals and an aged environment resulted in the reversal of the baseline effector molecule profile comparable with MAIT cells from younger adults. An upregulated basal inflammatory profile accounted for reduced Escherichia coli-specific responses in aged MAIT cells compared with their young adult counterparts when fold change in expression levels of GzmB, CD107a, IFN-γ, and TNF was examined. However, the magnitude of antimicrobial MR1-dependent activation remained as potent and polyfunctional as with younger adults. Paired TCRαβ analyses of MAIT cells revealed large clonal expansions in older adults and tissues that rivalled, remarkably, the TCRαβ repertoire diversity of virus-specific CD8+ T cells. These data suggest that MAIT cells in older individuals, although associated with large clonal TCRαβ expansions and increased baseline inflammatory potential, demonstrate plasticity and provide potent antimicrobial immunity.
Several studies showed adult persisting neurogenesis in insects, including the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, while it is absent in honeybees, carpenter ants, and vinegar flies. In our study, we focus on cell proliferation in the adult mushroom bodies of T. castaneum. We reliably labelled the progenies of the adult persisting mushroom body neuroblasts and determined the proliferation rate under several olfactory conditions within the first week after adult eclosion. We found at least two phases of Kenyon cell proliferation in the early adult beetle. Our results suggest that the generation of Kenyon cells during the first three days after adult eclosion is mainly genetically predetermined and a continuation of the developmental processes (nature), whereas from day four on proliferation seems to be mainly dependent on the odour environment (nurture). Considering that the mushroom bodies are linked to learning and memory, neurogenesis in the mushroom bodies is part of the remodelling of neuronal circuits leading to the adaption to the environment and optimization of behaviour.
BACKGROUND: Arthropods comprise the largest and most diverse phylum on Earth and play vital roles in nearly every ecosystem. Their diversity stems in part from variations on a conserved body plan, resulting from and recorded in adaptive changes in the genome. Dissection of the genomic record of sequence change enables broad questions regarding genome evolution to be addressed, even across hyper-diverse taxa within arthropods.RESULTS: Using 76 whole genome sequences representing 21 orders spanning more than 500 million years of arthropod evolution, we document changes in gene and protein domain content and provide temporal and phylogenetic context for interpreting these innovations. We identify many novel gene families that arose early in the evolution of arthropods and during the diversification of insects into modern orders. We reveal unexpected variation in patterns of DNA methylation across arthropods and examples of gene family and protein domain evolution coincident with the appearance of notable phenotypic and physiological adaptations such as flight, metamorphosis, sociality, and chemoperception.CONCLUSIONS: These analyses demonstrate how large-scale comparative genomics can provide broad new insights into the genotype to phenotype map and generate testable hypotheses about the evolution of animal diversity.
Tumor neantigens (TNAs) and tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) are crucial triggers of anticancer immune responses. Through major histocompatibility complex, such antigens activate T cells, which, by releasing interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and granzyme B (GRZB), act as crucial effectors against tumor onset and progression. However, in response to immune pressure, cancer cells use different strategies to favor the establishment of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). Elucidating the dynamics of tumor-host co-evolution provides novel opportunities for personalized cancer immunotherapies. The in sitro (in vitro+in situ) technology is an experimental approach involving the preparation of heterocellular cell suspensions from fresh tumors and their use in vitro. The in sitro experimental setup offers the possibility to (1) analyze immune-related parameters (e.g., quantification of cytokines released in the TME), (2) reveal the mechanism of action of drugs, and (3) unveil crucial cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic processes boosting anticancer immune responses. Nonetheless, the in sitro technology does not fully recapitulate the complexity of the tissue "in situ" nor models the patterns of infiltrating immune cell localization, and hence parallel experimentation should be scheduled. In this chapter we discuss in sitro technology to analyze and quantify IFN-γ and GRZB production by T cells either co-cultured with cancer cells in the presence of exogenous adjuvant stimuli (i.e., an antibody targeting the immune checkpoint programmed cell death protein 1, and recombinant calreticulin) and boosting with TAAs (i.e., the model SIINFEKL ovalbumin antigen). Specifically, we describe IFN-γ and GRZB quantification by flow cytometry, ELISA and ELISpot technologies.
BACKGROUND: The red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum has emerged as an important model organism for the study of gene function in development and physiology, for ecological and evolutionary genomics, for pest control and a plethora of other topics. RNA interference (RNAi), transgenesis and genome editing are well established and the resources for genome-wide RNAi screening have become available in this model. All these techniques depend on a high quality genome assembly and precise gene models. However, the first version of the genome assembly was generated by Sanger sequencing, and with a small set of RNA sequence data limiting annotation quality.RESULTS: Here, we present an improved genome assembly (Tcas5.2) and an enhanced genome annotation resulting in a new official gene set (OGS3) for Tribolium castaneum, which significantly increase the quality of the genomic resources. By adding large-distance jumping library DNA sequencing to join scaffolds and fill small gaps, the gaps in the genome assembly were reduced and the N50 increased to 4753kbp. The precision of the gene models was enhanced by the use of a large body of RNA-Seq reads of different life history stages and tissue types, leading to the discovery of 1452 novel gene sequences. We also added new features such as alternative splicing, well defined UTRs and microRNA target predictions. For quality control, 399 gene models were evaluated by manual inspection. The current gene set was submitted to Genbank and accepted as a RefSeq genome by NCBI.CONCLUSIONS: The new genome assembly (Tcas5.2) and the official gene set (OGS3) provide enhanced genomic resources for genetic work in Tribolium castaneum. The much improved information on transcription start sites supports transgenic and gene editing approaches. Further, novel types of information such as splice variants and microRNA target genes open additional possibilities for analysis.
In addition to helper and regulatory potential, CD4+ T cells also acquire cytotoxic activity marked by granzyme B (GzmB) expression and the ability to promote rejection of established tumors. Here, we examined the molecular and cellular mechanisms underpinning the differentiation of cytotoxic CD4+ T cells following immunotherapy. CD4+ transfer into lymphodepleted animals or regulatory T (Treg) cell depletion promoted GzmB expression by tumor-infiltrating CD4+, and this was prevented by interleukin-2 (IL-2) neutralization. Transcriptional analysis revealed a polyfunctional helper and cytotoxic phenotype characterized by the expression of the transcription factors T-bet and Blimp-1. While T-bet ablation restricted interferon-γ (IFN-γ) production, loss of Blimp-1 prevented GzmB expression in response to IL-2, suggesting two independent programs required for polyfunctionality of tumor-reactive CD4+ T cells. Our findings underscore the role of Treg cells, IL-2, and Blimp-1 in controlling the differentiation of cytotoxic CD4+ T cells and offer a pathway to enhancement of anti-tumor activity through their manipulation.
Embryophytes (land plants) can be found in almost any habitat on the Earth's surface. All of this ecologically diverse embryophytic flora arose from algae through a singular evolutionary event. Traits that were, by their nature, indispensable for the singular conquest of land by plants were those that are key for overcoming terrestrial stressors. Not surprisingly, the biology of land plant cells is shaped by a core signaling network that connects environmental cues, such as stressors, to the appropriate responses-which, thus, modulate growth and physiology. When did this network emerge? Was it already present when plant terrestrialization was in its infancy? A comparative approach between land plants and their algal relatives, the streptophyte algae, allows us to tackle such questions and resolve parts of the biology of the earliest land plants. Exploring the biology of the earliest land plants might shed light on exactly how they overcame the challenges of terrestrialization. Here, we outline the approaches and rationale underlying comparative analyses towards inferring the genetic toolkit for the stress response that aided the earliest land plants in their conquest of land.
In Plasmodium falciparum malaria, CD8+ T cells play a double-edged role. Liver-stage specific CD8+ T cells can confer protection, as has been shown in several vaccine studies. Blood-stage specific CD8+ T cells, on the other hand, contribute to the development of cerebral malaria in murine models of malaria. The role of CD8+ T cells in humans during the blood-stage of P. falciparum remains unclear. As part of a cross-sectional malaria study in Ghana, granzyme B levels and CD8+ T cells phenotypes were compared in the peripheral blood of children with complicated malaria, uncomplicated malaria, afebrile but asymptomatically infected children and non-infected children. Granzyme B levels in the plasma were significantly higher in children with febrile malaria than in afebrile children. CD8+ T cells were the main T cell subset expressing granzyme B. The proportion of granzyme B+ CD8+ T cells was significantly higher in children with complicated malaria than in uncomplicated malaria, whereas the activation marker CD38 on CD8+ T cells showed similar expression levels. This suggests a pathogenic role of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells in the development of malaria complications in humans.
Limited therapeutic options exist for the treatment of patients with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is currently the standard of care treatment in the early stages of the disease, although reliable biomarkers of response have been scarcely described. In our study we explored whether immunologic signatures associated with inflamed tumors or hot tumors could predict the outcome to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Publicly available transcriptomic data of more than 2,000 patients were evaluated. ROC plots were generated to assess the response to therapy. Cox proportional hazards regression was computed. Kaplan-Meier plots were drawn to visualize the survival differences. Higher expression of IDO1, CXCL9, CXCL10, HLA-DRA, HLA-E, STAT1, and GZMB were associated with a higher proportion without relapse in the first 5 y after chemotherapy in TNBC. The expression of these genes was associated with a high presence of CD8 T cells in responder patients using the EPIC bioinformatic tool. The strongest effect was observed for STAT1 (p = 1.8e-05 and AUC 0.69, p = 2.7e-06). The best gene-set signature to predict favorable RFS was the combination of IDO1, LAG3, STAT1, and GZMB (HR = 0.28, CI = 0.17-0.46, p = 9.8 E-08, FDR = 1%). However, no influence on pathological complete response (pCR) was observed. Similarly, no benefit was identified in any other tumor subtype: HER2 or estrogen receptor positive. In conclusion, we describe a set of immunologic genes that predict the outcome to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in TNBC, but not pCR, suggesting that this non-time to event endpoint is not a good surrogate marker to detect the long term outcome for immune activated tumors.
The genetic information encoded in nuclear mRNA destined to reach the cytoplasm requires the interaction of the mRNA molecule with the nuclear pore complex (NPC) for the process of mRNA export. Numerous proteins have important roles in the transport of mRNA out of the nucleus. The NPC embedded in the nuclear envelope is the port of exit for mRNA and is composed of ∼30 unique proteins, nucleoporins, forming the distinct structures of the nuclear basket, the pore channel and cytoplasmic filaments. Together, they serve as a rather stationary complex engaged in mRNA export, while a variety of soluble protein factors dynamically assemble on the mRNA and mediate the interactions of the mRNA with the NPC. mRNA export factors are recruited to and dissociate from the mRNA at the site of transcription on the gene, during the journey through the nucleoplasm and at the nuclear pore at the final stages of export. In this review, we present the current knowledge derived from biochemical, molecular, structural and imaging studies, to develop a high-resolution picture of the many events that culminate in the successful passage of the mRNA out of the nucleus.
CRISPR-associated proteins (Cas) are enabling powerful new approaches to control mammalian cell functions, yet the lack of spatially defined, noninvasive modalities limits their use as biological tools. Here, we integrate thermal gene switches with dCas9 complexes to confer remote control of gene activation and suppression with short pulses of heat. Using a thermal switch constructed from the heat shock protein A6 (HSPA6) locus, we show that a single heat pulse 3-5 °C above basal temperature is sufficient to trigger expression of dCas9 complexes. We demonstrate that dCas9 fused to the transcriptional activator VP64 is functional after heat activation, and, depending on the number of heat pulses, drives transcription of endogenous genes GzmB and CCL21 to levels equivalent to that achieved by a constitutive viral promoter. Across a range of input temperatures, we find that downstream protein expression of GzmB closely correlates with transcript levels (R2 = 0.99). Using dCas9 fused with the transcriptional suppressor KRAB, we show that longitudinal suppression of the reporter d2GFP depends on key thermal input parameters including pulse magnitude, number of pulses, and dose fractionation. In living mice, we extend our study using photothermal heating to spatially target implanted cells to suppress d2GFP in vivo. Our study establishes a noninvasive and targeted approach to harness Cas-based proteins for modulation of gene expression to complement current methods for remote control of cell function.
Granzyme B (GrB) is an essential cytotoxic effector in cancer immunotherapy as it can be a potential biomarker to predict the efficacy of immunotherapies including checkpoint inhibitors. Monitoring the Granzyme B activity in cells would help determine a patient's clinical response to treatment and lead to better treatment strategies by preventing administration of ineffective therapies and avoid adverse events resulting in a delay in subsequent treatment. Methods: A microfluidic device with hydrodynamic traps and pneumatic valving system was fabricated using photo and soft lithography. Single cell Granzyme B (GrB) activity was detected and measured fluorometrically using a commercial assay kit with a peptide substrate containing GrB recognition sequence (Ac-IEPD-AFC) and AFC (7-Amino-4-trifluoromethylcoumarin) label. Fluorescence was observed and measured using a confocal microscope with CSU-W1 scanner unit and CCD camera as well as an inverted microscope with photodetector. Model cells (NK-92, GrB-transduced Jurkat, and THP1 cells) and human PBMCs from healthy donor and lung cancer patients including an anti-PD-1 antibody treated patient were profiled of its GrB activity as proof of concept. Results: GrB expression from the model cells was found to be markedly different. NK-92 cells were found to have higher GrB activity than the GrB-transduced Jurkat cells. THP-1 was found to have relatively no significant activity. A marked increase in GrB expression was also observed in anti-PD-1 treated lung cancer patient sample in comparison to PBMC from a healthy donor. TCR+ Ig-G4+ PBMC cells were found to have high activity which signifies a clear response to PD-1 blockade. Conclusion: As proof of concept, we have shown the capability of a microfluidic platform to measure GrB production through a single cell enzymatic activity assay. Our platform might be a promising tool for evaluating the sensitivity of immunotherapies and identifying specific T cell subset responsible for the anti-tumor response.
Early initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) in vertically HIV-infected children limits the size of the virus reservoir, but whether the time of treatment initiation (TI) can durably impact host immune responses associated with HIV infection is still unknown. This study was conducted in PBMC of 20 HIV-infected virally suppressed children on ART (mean age 9.4 y), classified as early treated (ET; age at ART initiation ≤0.5 y, n = 14) or late treated (LT; age at ART initiation 1-10 y, n = 6). Frequencies and functions of Ag-specific CD4 (CD40L+) and CD8 (CD69+) T cells were evaluated by intracellular IL-2, IFN-γ, and TNF-α production with IL-21 in CD4 or CD107a, granzyme B and perforin in CD8 T cells following stimulation with HIV gp140 protein (ENV) or GAG peptides by multiparameter flow cytometry. ET showed a higher proportion of cytokine-producing ENV- and GAG-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells compared with LT. In particular, ET were enriched in polyfunctional T cells. RNA sequencing analysis showed upregulation of immune activation pathways in LT compared with ET. Our results suggest that timing of TI in HIV-infected children has a long-term and measurable impact on the quality of the HIV-specific T cell immune responses and transcriptional profiles of PBMC, reinforcing the importance of early TI.
Fungal pathogens require the unfolded protein response (UPR) to maintain protein homeostasis of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) during pathogenic development. In the corn smut fungus Ustilago maydis, pathogenic development is controlled by the a and b mating-type loci. The UPR is specifically activated after plant penetration and required for efficient secretion of effectors and suppression of the plant defense response. The interaction between the UPR regulator Cib1 and the central developmental regulator Clp1 modulates the pathogenic program and triggers fungal colonization of the host plant. By contrast, when activated before plant penetration, the UPR interferes with fungal virulence by reducing expression of bE and bW, the central regulators of pathogenic development encoded by the b mating-type locus. Here, we show that this inhibitory effect results from UPR-mediated suppression of the pheromone response pathway upstream of the b regulatory network. UPR activity prompts dephosphorylation of the pheromone-responsive mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) Kpp2, reducing activity of the pheromone response factor Prf1 that regulates expression of bE and bW Deletion of the dual specificity phosphatase rok1 fully suppressed UPR-dependent inhibition of Kpp2 phosphorylation, formation of infectious filaments, and fungal virulence. Rok1 determines the activity of mating-type signaling pathways and thus the degree of fungal virulence. We propose that UPR-dependent regulation of Rok1 aligns ER physiology with fungal aggressiveness and effector gene expression during biotrophic growth of U. maydis in the host plant.IMPORTANCE The unfolded protein response (UPR) is crucial for endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis and disease development in fungal pathogens. In the plant-pathogenic fungus Ustilago maydis, the UPR supports fungal proliferation in planta and effector secretion for plant defense suppression. In this study, we uncovered that UPR activity, which is normally restricted to the biotrophic stage in planta, inhibits mating and the formation of infectious filaments by Rok1-dependent dephosphorylation of the pheromone responsive mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) Kpp2. This observation is relevant for understanding how the fungal virulence program is regulated by cellular physiology. UPR-mediated control of mating-type signaling pathways predicts that effector gene expression and the virulence potential are controlled by ER stress levels.
Functional exhaustion of immune cells is a defining characteristic of HIV-1 chronic infections, exhibiting dysregulation of cellular immune responses and expression of co-inhibitory receptors. Although the molecular mechanisms controlling immune-cell exhaustion retains largely unknown, immune checkpoint blockade strategy has shown inspiring potential to reinvigorate T cell functions in chronic infections. In this study, we investigated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) exhaustion markers from 109 chronic HIV-1-infected patients and found they correlated positively with microRNA-146a, which was inversely correlated with CD4+ T cell count. Intriguingly, ex vivo neutralization of miR-146a in PBMCs from chronic HIV-1 infection exhibited an elevated antiviral cytokines production as well as the expression of GZMB and perforin, while simultaneously, decreased the inhibitory receptors expression such as PD-1, CTLA-4, TIM-3 and LAG-3. These results highlight the importance of miR-146a to HIV-1 induced immune cell exhaustion, and uncover a novel layer of HIV/AIDS pathogenesis and provide potential targets for improved immune intervention.
Comment in    Plant Physiol. 2020 Mar;182(3):1192-1193.
BACKGROUND: Validation of previously identified candidate biomarkers and identification of additional candidate gene expression profiles to facilitate diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB) disease and monitoring treatment responses in the Ethiopian context is vital for improving TB control in the future.METHODS: Expression levels of 105 immune-related genes were determined in the blood of 80 HIV-negative study participants composed of 40 active TB cases, 20 latent TB infected individuals with positive tuberculin skin test (TST+), and 20 healthy controls with no Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection (TST-), using focused gene expression profiling by dual-color Reverse-Transcription Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification assay. Gene expression levels were also measured six months after anti-TB treatment (ATT) and follow-up in 38 TB patients.RESULTS: The expression of 15 host genes in TB patients could accurately discriminate between TB cases versus both TST+ and TST- controls at baseline and thus holds promise as biomarker signature to classify active TB disease versus latent TB infection in an Ethiopian setting. Interestingly, the expression levels of most genes that markedly discriminated between TB cases versus TST+ or TST- controls did not normalize following completion of ATT therapy at 6 months (except for PTPRCv1, FCGR1A, GZMB, CASP8 and GNLY) but had only fully normalized at the 18 months follow-up time point. Of note, network analysis comparing TB-associated host genes identified in the current HIV-negative TB cohort to TB-associated genes identified in our previously published Ethiopian HIV-positive TB cohort, revealed an over-representation of pattern recognition receptors including TLR2 and TLR4 in the HIV-positive cohort which was not seen in the HIV-negative cohort. Moreover, using ROC cutoff ≥ 0.80, FCGR1A was the only marker with classifying potential between TB infection and TB disease regardless of HIV status.CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that complex gene expression signatures are required to measure blood transcriptomic responses during and after successful ATT to fully diagnose TB disease and characterise drug-induced relapse-free cure, combining genes which resolve completely during the 6-months treatment phase of therapy with genes that only fully return to normal levels during the post-treatment resolution phase.
Author information:(1)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Food and Drug Vocational College, Guangzhou 510520, PR China.(2)School of Chinese Medicine, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou 510006, PR China. Electronic address: dxl@gdpu.edu.cn.(3)School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Food and Drug Vocational College, Guangzhou 510520, PR China. Electronic address: suxg@gdyzy.edu.cn.
Comment in    Immunity. 2019 Dec 17;51(6):1028-1042.e4.    Immunity. 2019 Dec 17;51(6):970-972.
Ustilago maydis is a model organism for the study of biotrophic plant-pathogen interactions. The sexual and pathogenic development of the fungus are tightly connected since fusion of compatible haploid sporidia is prerequisite for infection of the host plant, maize (Zea mays). After plant penetration, the unfolded protein response (UPR) is activated and required for biotrophic growth. The UPR is continuously active throughout all stages of pathogenic development in planta. However, since development of UPR deletion mutants stops directly after plant penetration, the role of an active UPR at later stages of development remained to be determined. Here, we established a gene expression system for U. maydis that uses endogenous, conditionally active promoters to either induce or repress expression of a gene of interest during different stages of plant infection. Integration of the expression constructs into the native genomic locus and removal of resistance cassettes were required to obtain a wild-type-like expression pattern. This indicates that genomic localization and chromatin structure are important for correct promoter activity and gene expression. By conditional expression of the central UPR regulator, Cib1, in U. maydis, we show that a functional UPR is required for continuous plant defence suppression after host infection and that U. maydis relies on a robust control system to prevent deleterious UPR hyperactivation.
Sphingolipids act as regulators of programmed cell death (PCD) and the plant defence response. The homeostasis between long-chain base (LCB) and ceramide (Cer) seems to play an important role in executions of PCD. Therefore, deciphering the role of neutral ceramidases (NCER) is crucial to identify the sphingolipid compounds that trigger and execute PCD. We performed comprehensive sphingolipid and phytohormone analyses of Arabidopsis ncer mutants, combined with gene expression profiling and microscopic analyses. While ncer1 exhibited early leaf senescence (developmentally controlled PCD - dPCD) and an increase in hydroxyceramides, ncer2 showed spontaneous cell death (pathogen-triggered PCD-like - pPCD) accompanied by an increase in LCB t18:0 at 35 d, respectively. Loss of NCER1 function resulted in accumulation of jasmonoyl-isoleucine (JA-Ile) in the leaves, whereas disruption of NCER2 was accompanied by higher levels of salicylic acid (SA) and increased sensitivity to Fumonisin B1 (FB1 ). All mutants were also found to activate plant defence pathways. These data strongly suggest that NCER1 hydrolyses ceramides whereas NCER2 functions as a ceramide synthase. Our results reveal an important role of NCER in the regulation of both dPCD and pPCD via a tight connection between the phytohormone and sphingolipid levels in these two processes.
Massive infection caused by Cryptocaryon irritans is detrimental to the development of marine aquaculture. Recently, our lab found that Nibea albiflora has low sensitivity and low mortality to C. irritans infection. The present study was designed to investigate the mechanisms of the N. albiflora response to C. irritans infection by analyzing transcriptome changes in the skin. Skin samples of control and experimental groups with C. irritans infection were collected at 24 and 72 h (24 h control, 24 h post-infection, 72 h control, and 72 h post-infection). Three parallels were set for each group and sample time, and a total of 12 skin samples were collected for sequencing. Overall, 297,489,843 valid paired-end reads and 48,817 unigenes were obtained with an overall length of 59,010,494 nt. In pairwise comparisons, changes in expression occurred in 1621 (764 upregulated and 857 downregulated), 285 (180 upregulated and 105 downregulated), 993 (489 upregulated and 504 downregulated), and 37 (8 upregulated and 29 downregulated) genes at 24 h control vs 24 h post-infection, 72 h control vs 72 h post-infection, 24 h post-infection vs 72 h post-infection, and 24 h control vs 72 h control, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) indicated that the number of genes enriched in GO sub-categories were ordered 24 h control vs 24 h post-infection > 24 h post-infection vs 72 h post-infection >72 h control vs 72 h post-infection > 24 h control vs 72 h control. Further analysis showed that immune-related GO terms (including immune system process, complement activation, and humoral immunity) were significantly enriched at both 72 h control vs 72 h post-infection and 24 h post-infection vs 72 h post-infection, but no immune-related GO terms were significantly enriched in the 24 h control vs 72 h control and at 24 h control vs 24 h post-infection, indicating that C. irritans infection mainly affected the physiological metabolism of N. albiflora at an early stage (24 h), and immune-related genes play an important role at a later stage (72 h) of infection. In KEGG pathway analysis, the complement and coagulation cascade pathway are involved in early infection. Hematopoietic cell lineage, natural killer (NK) cell-mediated cytotoxicity, and the intestinal immune network for IgA production are involved in later infection. Further analysis showed that the alternative pathway of complement and coagulation cascades plays an important role in the resistance of N. albiflora to early C. irritans infection. During late infection, CD34, IgM, and IgD were significantly upregulated in the hematopoietic cell lineage pathway. CCR9 was significantly downregulated, and IGH and PIGR were significantly upregulated in the intestinal immune network for IgA production. GZMB and IGH were significantly downregulated in NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. These findings indicate that acquired immunity at the mRNA level was initiated during later infection. In addition, the IL-17 signaling pathway was enriched by downregulated DEGs at 24 h post-infection vs 72 h post-infection, suggesting the inflammatory response at 24 h was stronger than at 72 h and the invasion of the parasite has a greater impact on the host.
BACKGROUND: Skin lesions from patients infected with Leishmania braziliensis has been associated with inflammation induced by cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. In addition, CD8+ T cell-mediated cytotoxicity has not been linked to parasite killing. Meanwhile, the cytotoxic role played by natural killer (NK) cells in cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) remains poorly understood.METHODS: In this study, we observed higher frequencies of NK cells in the peripheral blood of CL patients compared with healthy subjects, and that NK cells expressed more interferon-γ, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), granzyme B, and perforin than CD8+ T cells.RESULTS: We also found that most of the cytotoxic activity in CL lesions was triggered by NK cells, and that the high levels of granzyme B produced in CL lesions was associated with larger lesion size. Furthermore, an in vitro blockade of granzyme B was observed to decrease TNF production.CONCCLUSIONS: Our data, taken together, suggest an important role by NK cells in inducing inflammation in CL, thereby contributing to disease immunopathology.
The marine microalgae Nannochloropsis oceanica (CCMP1779) is a prolific producer of oil and is considered a viable and sustainable resource for biofuel feedstocks. Nitrogen (N) availability has a strong impact on the physiological status and metabolism of microalgal cells, but the exact nature of this response is poorly understood. To fill this gap we performed transcriptomic profiling combined with cellular and molecular analyses of N. oceanica CCMP1779 during the transition from quiescence to autotrophy. N deprivation-induced quiescence was accompanied by a strong reorganization of the photosynthetic apparatus and changes in the lipid homeostasis, leading to accumulation of triacylglycerol. Cell cycle activation and re-establishment of photosynthetic activity observed in response to resupply of the growth medium with N were accompanied by a rapid degradation of triacylglycerol stored in lipid droplets (LDs). Besides observing LD translocation into vacuoles, we also provide evidence for direct interaction between the LD surface protein (NoLDSP) and AUTOPHAGY-RELATED8 (NoATG8) protein and show a role of microlipophagy in LD turnover in N. oceanica CCMP1779. This knowledge is crucial not only for understanding the fundamental mechanisms controlling the cellular energy homeostasis in microalgal cells but also for development of efficient strategies to achieve higher algal biomass and better microalgal lipid productivity.
Granzymes (Gzm) are serine proteases, contained into the secretory granules of cytotoxic cells, responsible for the cell-mediated cytotoxicity (CMC) against tumor cells and intracellular pathogens such as virus and bacteria. In fish, they have received little attention to their existence, classification or functional characterization. Therefore, we aimed to identify and evaluate their functional and transcriptomic relevance in the innate CMC activity of two relevant teleost fish species, gilthead seabream and European sea bass. Afterwards, we wanted to focus on their regulation upon nodavirus (NNV) infection, a virus that causes great mortalities to sea bass specimens while seabream is resistant. In this study, we have identified genes encoding GzmA and GzmB in both seabream and sea bass, as well as GzmM in seabream, which showed good phylogenetic relation to their mammalian orthologs. In addition, we found enzymatic activity related to tryptase (GzmA and/or GzmK), aspartase (GzmB), metase (GzmM), or chymase (GzmH) in resting head-kidney leucocytes (HKLs), with the following order of activity: GzmA/K ~ GzmM >> GzmH >>> GzmB. In addition, during innate CMC assays consisting on HKLs exposed to either mock- or NNV-infected target cells, though all the granzyme transcripts were increased only the tryptase activity did. Thus, our data suggest a high functional activity of GzmA/K in the innate CMC and a marginal one for GzmB. Moreover, GzmB activity was detected into target cells during the CMC assays. However, the percentage of target cells with GzmB activity after the CMC assays was about 10-fold lower than the death target cells, demonstrating that GzmB is not the main inductor of cell death. Moreover, in in vivo infection with NNV, gzm transcription is differently regulated depending on the fish species, genes and tissues. However, the immunohistochemistry study revealed an increased number of GzmB stained cells and areas in the brain of seabream after NNV infection, which was mainly associated with the lesions detected. Further studies are needed to ascertain the molecular nature, biological function and implication of fish granzymes in the CMC activity, and in the antiviral defense in particular.
Jasmonic acid (JA) and its many derivatives-collectively referred as jasmonates-occur ubiquitously in land plants and regulate a wide range of stress-responses and development. Measuring these signaling compounds is complicated by the large number of jasmonate derivatives and the comparatively low concentration of these metabolites in plant tissues. We, here, present a selective and sensitive method consisting of a two-phase extraction coupled with liquid chromatography, nanoelectrospray ionization, and mass spectrometry to determine jasmonate levels in tissues and fluids of various plant species. The application of stable deuterium-labelled standards in combination with authentic standards allows the absolute quantification of a multitude of jasmonates and, additionally, the semi-quantitative analysis of further metabolites from the jasmonate pathway.
Natural killer (NK) cells comprise of ∼70% of the immune cell population in the maternal decidua and ∼15% of the mononuclear cells in the peripheral blood. The decidual NK cells capable of producing high levels of cytokines are functionally distinct from the peripheral NK cells that exhibit high cytotoxicity. The numbers of peripheral NK cells and their cytotoxicity potential have been correlated with pregnancy outcome. In the same context, glycodelin, an immunomodulatory protein, has been recognized to be essential for the establishment and maintenance of pregnancy, and its' reduced levels are associated with recurrent spontaneous abortions. We investigated the effect of glycodelin on the peripheral NK cells. Our results reveal that glycodelin suppresses the cytotoxicity of peripheral NK cells via downregulating perforin, granzyme B and IFNγ. Glycodelin also induces caspase-dependent death in only activated peripheral NK cells, the effect suggested to be mediated by glycodelin upon engaging with the CD7 cell surface receptor. Thus, during pregnancy, glycodelin modulates the function and the number of cytotoxic NK cells that pose a deleterious effect on the fetus, a semi-allograft. This study provides insights into the mechanism of the regulatory effect of glycodelin on NK cells and could possibly be exploited for the management of miscarriages.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases & National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases & Dept. of Head and Neck Oncology, West China Hospital of Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.
BACKGROUND: Aspergillus spp. comprises a very diverse group of lower eukaryotes with a high relevance for industrial applications and clinical implications. These multinucleate species are often cultured for many generations in the laboratory, which can unknowingly propagate hidden genetic mutations. To assess the likelihood of such events, we studied the genome stability of aspergilli by using a combination of mutation accumulation (MA) lines and whole genome sequencing.RESULTS: We sequenced the whole genomes of 30 asexual and 10 sexual MA lines of three Aspergillus species (A. flavus, A. fumigatus and A. nidulans) and estimated that each MA line accumulated mutations for over 4000 mitoses during asexual cycles. We estimated mutation rates of 4.2 × 10-11 (A. flavus), 1.1 × 10-11 (A. fumigatus) and 4.1 × 10-11 (A. nidulans) per site per mitosis, suggesting that the genomes are very robust. Unexpectedly, we found a very high rate of GC → TA transversions only in A. flavus. In parallel, 30 asexual lines of the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) mutants of the three species were also allowed to accumulate mutations for the same number of mitoses. Sequencing of these NHEJ MA lines gave an estimated mutation rate of 5.1 × 10-11 (A. flavus), 2.2 × 10-11 (A. fumigatus) and 4.5 × 10-11 (A. nidulans) per base per mitosis, which is slightly higher than in the wild-type strains and some ~ 5-6 times lower than in the yeasts. Additionally, in A. nidulans, we found a NHEJ-dependent interference of the sexual cycle that is independent of the accumulation of mutations.CONCLUSIONS: We present for the first time direct counts of the mutation rate of filamentous fungal species and find that Aspergillus genomes are very robust. Deletion of the NHEJ machinery results in a slight increase in the mutation rate, but at a rate we suggest is still safe to use for biotechnology purposes. Unexpectedly, we found GC→TA transversions predominated only in the species A. flavus, which could be generated by the hepatocarcinogen secondary metabolite aflatoxin. Lastly, a strong effect of the NHEJ mutation in self-crossing was observed and an increase in the mutations of the asexual lines was quantified.
Diverse signals and stress factors regulate the activity and homeostasis of ribosomes in all cells. The Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein Asc1/yRACK1 occupies an exposed site at the head region of the 40S ribosomal subunit (hr40S) and represents a central hub for signaling pathways. Asc1 strongly affects protein phosphorylation and is involved in quality control pathways induced by translation elongation arrest. Therefore, it is important to understand the dynamics of protein formations in the Asc1 microenvironment at the hr40S. We made use of the in vivo protein-proximity labeling technique Biotin IDentification (BioID). Unbiased proxiOMICs from two adjacent perspectives identified nucleocytoplasmic shuttling mRNA-binding proteins, the deubiquitinase complex Ubp3-Bre5, as well as the ubiquitin E3 ligase Hel2 as neighbors of Asc1. We observed Asc1-dependency of hr40S localization of mRNA-binding proteins and the Ubp3 co-factor Bre5. Hel2 and Ubp3-Bre5 are described to balance the mono-ubiquitination of Rps3 (uS3) during ribosome quality control. Here, we show that the absence of Asc1 resulted in massive exposure and accessibility of the C-terminal tail of its ribosomal neighbor Rps3 (uS3). Asc1 and some of its direct neighbors together might form a ribosomal decision tree that is tightly connected to close-by signaling modules.
Proteins are continually produced and degraded, to avoid the accumulation of old or damaged molecules and to maintain the efficiency of physiological processes. Despite its importance, protein turnover has been difficult to measure in vivo. Previous approaches to evaluating turnover in vivo have required custom labeling approaches, involved complex mass spectrometry (MS) analyses, or used comparative strategies that do not allow direct quantitative measurements. Here, we describe a robust protocol for quantitative proteome turnover analysis in mice that is based on a commercially available diet for stable isotope labeling of amino acids in mammals (SILAM). We start by discussing fundamental concepts of protein turnover, including different methodological approaches. We then cover in detail the practical aspects of metabolic labeling and explain both the experimental and computational steps that must be taken to obtain accurate in vivo results. Finally, we present a simple experimental workflow that enables measurement of precise turnover rates in a time frame of ~4-5 weeks, including the labeling time. We also provide all the scripts needed for the interpretation of the MS results and for comparing turnover across different conditions. Overall, the workflow presented here comprises several improvements in the determination of protein lifetimes with respect to other available methods, including a minimally invasive labeling strategy and a robust interpretation of MS results, thus enhancing reproducibility across laboratories.
Polymethoxylated flavones (PMFs) are naturally occurring compounds that have biological effects on many cell types. We previously demonstrated that PMFs such as nobiletin potentiate the cytolytic activity of the human leukemic natural killer cell line KHYG-1 and increased level of the cytotoxic protein granzyme B (GrB) and the cytokine interferon-γ (IFN-γ). However, the precise mechanisms by which this occurs remain to be elucidated. In this study, we sought to identify and investigate the function of intracellular primary targets of the PMFs in KHYG-1 cells. Using affinity purification and mass spectrometry, we identified that 3'-hydroxy-4',5,6,7-tetramethoxyflavone (TMF) binds to the nuclear export factors Exportin-1 and -2 (XPO1 and XPO2) as TMF-binding proteins and demonstrated that nobiletin competes with TMF for XPO1 binding, suggesting that nobiletin also binds to XPO1. Treatment of KHYG-1 cells with leptomycin B, a specific XPO1 inhibitor, increased the expression of GrB and IFN-γ but did not potentiate lysis of specific target cells, suggesting that the cargo of XPO1 contributes to the expression of cytolytic genes but that this alone is insufficient to enhance cytolysis. Consistent with this, nobiletin and related PMFs induced the nuclear retention of NF-κB, a transcription factor that promotes GrB and IFN-γ expression. PMFs also induced the nuclear retention of the tumor suppressor protein p53, a known XPO1 cargo protein, resulting in KHYG-1 cell cycle arrest. Collectively, these results suggest that PMFs modulate KHYG-1 function, at least in part, by inhibiting XPO1.
In addition to expressing inhibitory cytokines and suppressive molecules, Treg cells could downplay inflammation by releasing cytotoxic molecules and eliminating proinflammatory immune cells. Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common malignancy that has led to many cancer-related deaths. In this study, we investigated the cytotoxic aspect of Treg cells in CRC patients. Data showed that tumor-infiltrating FOXP3+ Treg cells expressed granzyme B immediately following resection, indicating that granzyme B-expressing Treg cells were present directly ex vivo. In the tumor-associated lymph nodes (LNs) and circulating lymphocytes, however, granzyme B-expressing Treg cells were only scarcely found. We then attempted to stimulate granzyme B expression in circulating Treg cells. Granzyme B upregulation in Treg cells could not be activated by standard T cell receptor (TCR) activation through anti-CD3/CD28 and IL-2 but required stimulation with bacterial products, such as with heat-killed Staphylococcus aureus. Interestingly, granzyme B expression was highly concentrated in TIM-3+ Treg cells, a Treg subset previously shown to be enriched in the tumor microenvironment and presented increased suppressive capacity. These TIM-3+ Treg cells presented higher cytolytic capacity toward autologous T conventional cells than the TIM-3- Treg cells, in a manner that was dependent on granzyme B but not TIM-3. Overall, we found that granzyme B-expressing Treg cells were enriched in the tumors from CRC patients and had the potential to eliminate autologous T conventional cells.
Word-based or 'alignment-free' methods for phylogeny inference have become popular in recent years. These methods are much faster than traditional, alignment-based approaches, but they are generally less accurate. Most alignment-free methods calculate 'pairwise' distances between nucleic-acid or protein sequences; these distance values can then be used as input for tree-reconstruction programs such as neighbor-joining. In this paper, we propose the first word-based phylogeny approach that is based on 'multiple' sequence comparison and 'maximum likelihood'. Our algorithm first samples small, gap-free alignments involving four taxa each. For each of these alignments, it then calculates a quartet tree and, finally, the program 'Quartet MaxCut' is used to infer a super tree for the full set of input taxa from the calculated quartet trees. Experimental results show that trees produced with our approach are of high quality.
BACKGROUND: Inefficient T-cell access to the tumor microenvironment (TME) is among the causes of tumor immune-resistance. Previous evidence demonstrated that targeting CXCR4 improves anti-PD-1/PD-L1 efficacy reshaping TME. To evaluate the role of newly developed CXCR4 antagonists (PCT/IB2011/000120/ EP2528936B1/US2013/0079292A1) in potentiating anti-PD-1 efficacy two syngeneic murine models, the MC38 colon cancer and the B16 melanoma-human CXCR4-transduced, were employed.METHODS: Mice were subcutaneously injected with MC38 (1 × 106) or B16-hCXCR4 (5 × 105). After two weeks, tumors bearing mice were intraperitoneally (ip) treated with murine anti-PD-1 [RMP1-14] (5 mg/kg, twice week for 2 weeks), Pep R (2 mg/kg, 5 days per week for 2 weeks), or both agents. The TME was evaluated through immunohistochemistry and flow-cytometry. In addition, the effects of the human-anti-PD-1 nivolumab and/or Peptide-R54 (Pep R54), were evaluated on human melanoma PES43 cells and xenografts treated.RESULTS: The combined treatment, Pep R plus anti-PD-1, reduced the MC38 Relative Tumor Volume (RTV) by 2.67 fold (p = 0.038) while nor anti-PD-1, neither Pep R significantly impacted on tumor growth. Significant higher number of Granzyme B (GZMB) positive cells was detected in MC38 tumors from mice treated with the combined treatment (p = 0.016) while anti-PD-1 determined a modest but significant increase of tumor-infiltrating GZMB positive cells (p = 0.035). Also, a lower number of FoxP3 positive cells was detected (p = 0.022). In the B16-hCXCR4 tumors, two weeks of combined treatment reduced tumor volume by 2.27 fold while nor anti-PD-1 neither Pep R significantly impacted on tumor growth. A significant higher number of GRZB positive cells was observed in B16-hCXCR4 tumors treated with combined treatment (p = 0,0015) as compared to anti-PD-1 (p = 0.028). The combined treatment reduced CXCR4, CXCL12 and PD-L1 expression in MC38 tumors. In addition, flow cytometry on fresh B16-hCXCR4 tumors showed significantly higher Tregs number following anti-PD-1 partially reversed by the combined treatment Pep R and anti-PD-1. Combined treatment determined an increase of CD8/Tregs and CD8/MDSC ratio. To dissect the effect of anti-PD-1 and CXCR4 targeting on PD-1 expressed by human cancer cells, PES43 human melanoma xenograft model was employed. In vitro human anti-PD-1 nivolumab or pembrolizumab (10 μM) reduced PES43 cells growth while nivolumab (10 μM) inhibited pERK1/2, P38 MAPK, pAKT and p4EBP. PES43 xenograft mice were treated with Pep R54, a newly developed Pep R derivative (AcHN-Arg-Ala-[DCys-Arg- Nal(2')-His-Pen]- COOH), plus nivolumab. After 3 weeks of combined treatment a significant reduction in tumor growth was shown (p = 0.038). PES43 lung disseminated tumor cells (DTC) were detected in fresh lung tissues as melanoma positive MCSP-APC+ cells. Although not statistically significant, DTC-PES43 cells were reduced in mice lungs treated with combined treatment while nivolumab or Pep R54 did not affect DTC number.CONCLUSION: Combined treatment with the new developed CXCR4 antagonist, Pep R, plus anti-PD-1, reduced tumor-growth in two syngeneic murine models, anti-PD-1 sensitive and resistant, potentiating Granzyme and reducing Foxp3 cells infiltration. In addition, the human specific CXCR4 antagonist, Pep R54, cooperated with nivolumab in inhibiting the growth of the PD-1 expressing human PES43 melanoma xenograft. This evidence sheds light on PD-1 targeting mechanisms and paves the way for CXCR4/PD-1 targeting combination therapy.
BACKGROUND: The role of regulatory T cells (Tregs) is now well established in the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) linked to Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. However, nothing is known about the potential interplay between Tregs and HCV. In this pilot study, we have investigated the ability of Tregs to hang HCV on and the subsequent effect on their suppressive function and phenotype. Moreover, we have evaluated how HCV could promote the recruitment of Tregs by infected primary human hepatocytes.METHODS: Tregs of healthy donors were incubated with JFH-1/HCVcc. Viral inoculation was assessed using adapted assays (RT-qPCR, Flow Citometry (FACS) and Western Blot (WB). Expression of Tregs phenotypic (CD4, CD25, CD127 and Foxp3) and functional (IL-10, GZMB, TGF-β1 and IL-2) markers was monitored by RT-qPCR, FACS and ELISA. Suppressive activity was validated by suppressive assays. Tregs recruitment by infected primary hepatic cells was evaluated using Boyden Chamber.RESULTS: Tregs express the classical HCV receptors (CD81, CLDN1 and LDLR) and some co-receptors (CD5). HCV inoculation significantly increases the suppressive phenotype and activity of Tregs, and raises their anergy by inducing an unexpected IL-2 production. Moreover, HCV infection induces the expression of chemokines (CCL17, CXCL16, and CCL20) by primary hepatic human hepatocytes and chemokine receptors (CCR4, CXCR6 and CCR6) by Tregs. Finally, infected hepatocytes have a significantly higher potential to recruit Tregs in a seemingly CCL20-dependent manner.CONCLUSIONS: Direct interaction between HCV and Tregs represents a newly defined mechanism that could potentiate HCV immune evasion and favor intratumoral recruitment contributing to HCC progression.
Dendritic cell (DC)-based vaccination effectively induces anti-tumor immunity, although in the majority of cases this does not translate into a durable clinical response. However, DC vaccination is characterized by a robust safety profile, making this treatment a potential candidate for effective combination cancer immunotherapy. To explore this possibility, understanding changes occurring in the tumor microenvironment (TME) upon DC vaccination is required. In this line, quantitative and qualitative changes in tumor-infiltrating T lymphocytes (TILs) induced by vaccination with autologous tumor lysate/homogenate loaded DCs were investigated in a series of 16 patients with metastatic melanoma. Immunohistochemistry for CD4, CD8, Foxp3, Granzyme B (GZMB), PDL1, and HLA class I was performed in tumor biopsies collected before and after DC vaccination. The density of each marker was quantified by automated digital pathology analysis on whole slide images. Co-expression of markers defining functional phenotypes, i.e., Foxp3+ regulatory CD4+ T cells (Treg) and GZMB+ cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, was assessed with sequential immunohistochemistry. A significant increase of CD8+ TILs was found in post-vaccine biopsies of patients who were not previously treated with immune-modulating cytokines or Ipilimumab. Interestingly, along with a maintained tumoral HLA class I expression, after DC vaccination we observed a significant increase of PDL1+ tumor cells, which significantly correlated with intratumoral CD8+ T cell density. This observation might explain the lack of a significant concurrent cytotoxic reactivation of CD8+ T cell, as measured by the numbers of GZMB+ T cells. Altogether these findings indicate that DC vaccination exerts an important role in sustaining or de novo inducing a T cell inflamed TME. However, the strength of the intratumoral T cell activation detected in post-DC therapy lesions is lessened by an occurring phenomenon of adaptive immune resistance, yet the concomitant PDL1 up-regulation. Overall, this study sheds light on DC immunotherapy-induced TME changes, lending the rationale for the design of smarter immune-combination therapies.
Antigen recognition by MHC class I molecules is a key step for the initiation of the immune response. We hypothesized that expression of these molecules could be a marker of immune-activated breast cancers. Data from KM Plotter were extracted to develop an exploratory cohort. Information from Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and METABRIC was used to create two validation cohorts. Raw data were re-processed and analyzed using plyr R and Bioconductor. We predicted epitope-HLA binding to MHC I molecules by using NetMHC 4.0. Cox proportional hazards regression was computed to correlate gene expression and survival outcome. There was a weak but positive correlation between mutational burden and the expression of most MHC class I molecules. In the exploratory cohort, expression of HLA-A and HLA-B was associated with favorable relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) in the basal-like subgroup. This was confirmed in the METABRIC and TCGA dataset. Expression of HLA-A and HLA-B was associated with biomarkers of T cell activation (GZMA, GZMB, and PRF1) and improved the predictive capacity of known immunologic signatures. Several neopeptides expressed in breast cancer were also identified including FUK, SNAPC3, GC, ANO8, DOT1L, HIST1H3F, MYBPH, STX2, FRMD6, CPSF1, or SMTN, among others. Expression of HLA A and B is associated with T cell activation and identifies immune activated, basal-like breast cancers with favorable prognosis. Antigen recognition markers should be incorporated into the assessment of the tumor immune state of basal-like breast patients.
We performed a multivariate meta-analysis of microarray data in Crohn's disease (CD) and Ulcerative colitis (UC), which are the main forms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). They share similar symptoms but differ in the location and extent of inflammation and in complications. We identified 249 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in CD and 38 in UC at a false discovery rate of 1%. 20 of the DEGs were common to both diseases. A multivariate test identified 260 DEGs associated with IBD, 53 of which were not found in any of the disorders. We identified important molecular pathways implicated in the pathogenesis of IBD, such as the JAK/STAT and interferon-gamma signaling pathways, genes involved in cell adhesion, apoptosis and carcinogenesis. Among others, BCAT1 and GZMB are interesting novel DEGs that deserve further investigation in experimental models. The method could also be useful to other cases of meta-analysis of gene expression data.
Excessive inflammatory immune responses during infections with Plasmodium parasites are responsible for severe complications such as cerebral malaria (CM) that can be studied experimentally in mice. Dendritic cells (DCs) activate cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells and initiate immune responses against the parasites. Batf3-/- mice lack a DC subset, which efficiently induces strong CD8 T-cell responses by cross-presentation of exogenous antigens. Here we show that Batf3-/- mice infected with Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA) were protected from experimental CM (ECM), characterized by a stable blood-brain barrier (BBB) and significantly less infiltrated peripheral immune cells in the brain. Importantly, the absence of ECM in Batf3-/- mice correlated with attenuated responses of cytotoxic T-cells, as their parasite-specific lytic activity as well as the production of interferon gamma and granzyme B were significantly decreased. Remarkably, spleens of ECM-protected Batf3-/- mice had elevated levels of regulatory immune cells and interleukin 10. Thus, protection from ECM in PbA-infected Batf3-/- mice was associated with the absence of strong CD8+ T-cell activity and induction of immunoregulatory mediators and cells.
The genetic control of anterior brain development is highly conserved throughout animals. For instance, a conserved anterior gene regulatory network specifies the ancestral neuroendocrine center of animals and the apical organ of marine organisms. However, its contribution to the brain in non-marine animals has remained elusive. Here, we study the function of the Tc-foxQ2 forkhead transcription factor, a key regulator of the anterior gene regulatory network of insects. We characterized four distinct types of Tc-foxQ2 positive neural progenitor cells based on differential co-expression with Tc-six3/optix, Tc-six4, Tc-chx/vsx, Tc-nkx2.1/scro, Tc-ey, Tc-rx and Tc-fez1. An enhancer trap line built by genome editing marked Tc-foxQ2 positive neurons, which projected through the primary brain commissure and later through a subset of commissural fascicles. Eventually, they contributed to the central complex. Strikingly, in Tc-foxQ2 RNAi knock-down embryos the primary brain commissure did not split and subsequent development of midline brain structures stalled. Our work establishes foxQ2 as a key regulator of brain midline structures, which distinguish the protocerebrum from segmental ganglia. Unexpectedly, our data suggest that the central complex evolved by integrating neural cells from an ancestral anterior neuroendocrine center.
Lactoferrin (LF) is a soluble glycoprotein of the transferring family found in most biological fluids, functioning as a major first line defense molecule against infection in mammals. It also shows certain anti-tumor activity, but its clinical application in tumor therapy is limited because high dosage is required. In this study, we demonstrate that M860, a monoclonal antibody against human LF (hLF), could significantly increase the anti-tumor potential of low dosage hLF by forming LF-containing immune complex (IC). Human monocytes primed with LF-IC, but not hLF or M860 alone, or control ICs, showed strong tumoricidal activity on leukemia cell lines Jurkat and Raji through induction of secreted Granzyme B (GzB). LF-IC is able to colligate membrane-bound CD14 (a TLR4 co-receptor) and FcγRIIa (a low affinity activating Fcγ receptor) on the surface of human monocytes, thereby triggering the Syk-PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway leading to GzB production. Our work identifies a novel pathway for LF-mediated tumoricidal activity and may extend the clinical application of LF in tumor therapy.
The red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum, is an emerging model system well suited to the study of embryonic brain development and evolution (see Chapters 11 and 13 ). Brain genesis is driven by specific gene products whose expression underlies a tight spatiotemporal control. Therefore, the analysis of gene expression in time and space provides valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms that govern brain development. Since Tribolium-specific antibodies are scarce, fluorescent RNA in situ hybridization is the method of choice to determine the dynamics of individual gene expression. We have modified common RNA in situ protocols to facilitate the concomitant detection of two gene-specific expression patterns (double fluorescent RNA in situ). In addition, we describe a procedure which combines fluorescent single RNA in situ and immunostaining with gene-specific antibodies. Conventional in situ using RNA probes that are complementary to mature mRNAs often produce diffuse signals. We demonstrate that RNA in situ probes complementary to intronic gene sequences facilitate single cell resolution because the fluorescent signal is restricted to the nucleus. We believe our protocols can be adapted easily to suit the analysis of brain development in other insect species.
With CRISPR/Cas (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats/CRISPR-associated) scientists working with Tribolium castaneum can now generate transgenic lines with site-specific insertions at their region of interest. We present two methods to generate in vivo imaging lines suitable for marking subsets of neurons with fluorescent proteins. The first method relies on homologous recombination and uses a 2A peptide to create a bicistronic mRNA. In such lines, the target and the marker proteins are not fused but produced at equal amounts. This work-intensive method is compared with creating gene-specific enhancer traps that do not rely on homologous recombination. These are faster to generate but reflect the expression of the target gene less precisely. Which method to choose, strongly depends on the aims of each research project and in turn impacts of how neural cells and their development are marked. We describe the necessary steps from designing constructs and guide RNAs to embryonic injection and making homozygous stocks.
OBJECTIVE: Novel vaccination approaches are required to control human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections. The membrane proximal external region (MPER) of Env gp41 subunit and the V3/glycans of Env gp120 subunit were known as potential antigenic targets for anti-HIV-1 vaccines. In this study, we prepared the modified dendritic cells (DCs) and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with HIV-1 MPER-V3 gene using mechanical and chemical approaches.METHODS: At first, MPER-V3 fusion DNA delivery was optimized in dendritic cells (DCs) and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) using three mechanical (i.e., uniaxial cyclic stretch, equiaxial cyclic stretch and shear stress bioreactors), and two chemical (i.e., TurboFect or Lipofectamine) methods. Next, the modified DCs and MSCs with MPER-V3 antigen were compared to induce immune responses in vivo.RESULTS: Our data showed that the combination of equiaxial cyclic stretch loading and lipofectamine twice with 48 h intervals increased the efficiency of transfection about 60.21 ± 1.05 % and 65.06 ± 0.09 % for MSCs and DCs, respectively. Moreover, DCs and MSCs transfected with MPER-V3 DNA in heterologous DC or MSC prime/ peptide boost immunizations induced high levels of IgG2a, IgG2b, IFN-γ and IL-10 directed toward Th1 responses as well as an increased level of Granzyme B. Indeed, the modified MSCs and DCs with MPER-V3 DNA could significantly enhance the MPER/V3-specific T-cell responses compared to MPER/V3 peptide immunization.CONCLUSIONS: These findings showed that the modified MSC-based immunization could elicit effective immune responses against HIV antigen similar to the modified DC-based immunization.
Engineering of fungal laccases with optimum catalytic activity at alkaline pH has been a long-lasting challenge. In this study, a mutant library containing 3000 clones was obtained by error-prone PCR to adapt the optimum pH of a fungal laccase Lcc9 from the basidiomycete Coprinopsis cinerea. After three rounds of functional screening, a mutant with three amino acid changes (E116K, N229D, I393T) named PIE5 was selected. PIE5 showed an optimum pH of 8.5 and 8.0 against guaiacol and 2,6-DMP when expressed in Pichia pastoris, representing the first fungal laccase that possesses an optimum pH at an alkaline condition. Site directed mutagenesis disclosed that N229D contributed the most to the optimum pH increment. A single N229D mutation caused an increase in optimum pH by 1.5 units. When used in indigo dye decolorization, PIE5 efficiently decolorized 87.1 ± 1.1% and 90.9 ± 0.3% indigo dye at the optimum conditions of pH 7.0-7.5 and 60 °C, and with either methyl 3,5-dimethoxy-4-hydroxybenzoate or 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothazoline-6-sulfonate) as the mediator. In comparison, the commercially available fungal laccase TvLac from Trametes villosa decolorized 84.3 ± 1.8% of indigo dye under its optimum conditions (opt. pH 5.0 and 60 °C). The properties of an alkaline-dependent activity and the high indigo dye decolorization ability (1.3-fold better than the parental Lcc9) make the new fungal laccase PIE5 an alternative for specific industrial applications.
The combination of radiation with immune checkpoint inhibitors was reported in some cancers to have synergic effects both locally and distally. Our aim was to assess this combined therapy on both radiated and nonradiated bladder tumors and to characterize the immune landscape within the tumor microenvironment. Murine bladder cancer cells (MB49) were injected subcutaneously in both flanks of C57BL/6 mice. Mice were randomly assigned to the following treatments: placebo, anti-PD-L1 (four intraperitoneal injections over 2 weeks), radiation to right flank (10 Gy in two fractions), or radiation+anti-PD-L1. Tumor digestion, flow cytometry, and qPCR were performed. Log-rank analysis was used for statistical significance. Radiation+anti-PD-L1 group demonstrated statistically significant slower tumor growth rate both in the radiated and nonirradiated tumors (P < 0.001). Survival curves demonstrated superior survival in the combination group compared with each treatment alone (P = 0.02). Flow cytometry showed increased infiltration of immunosuppressive cells as well as CTL in the radiation and combination groups (P = 0.04). Ratio of immunosuppressive cells to CTL shifted in favor of cytotoxic activity in the combination arm (P < 0.001). The qPCR analysis revealed downregulation of immunosuppressive genes (CCL22, IL22, and IL13), as well as upregulation of markers of CTL activation (CXCL9, GZMA, and GZMB) within both the radiated and distant tumors within the combination group. Combining radiation with immune checkpoint inhibitor provided better response in the radiated tumors and also the distant tumors along with a shift within the tumor microenvironment favoring cytotoxic activity. These findings demonstrate a possible abscopal effect in urothelial carcinoma with combination therapy.
USP22, the deubiquitinating subunit of the SAGA transcriptional cofactor complex, is a member of an 11-gene "death-from-cancer" signature. USP22 has been considered an attractive therapeutic target since high levels of its expression were associated with distant metastasis, poor survival, and high recurrence rates in a wide variety of solid tumors, including colorectal cancer (CRC). We sought to investigate the role of Usp22 during tumorigenesis in vivo using a mouse model for intestinal carcinogenesis with a tissue-specific Usp22 ablation. In addition, we assessed the effects of USP22 depletion in human CRC cells on tumorigenic potential and identified underlying molecular mechanisms. For the first time, we report that USP22 has an unexpected tumor-suppressive function in vivo. Intriguingly, intestine-specific Usp22 deletion exacerbated the tumor phenotype caused by Apc mutation, resulting in significantly decreased survival and higher intestinal tumor incidence. Accordingly, human CRC cells showed increased tumorigenic properties upon USP22 reduction in vitro and in vivo and induced gene expression signatures associated with an unfavorable outcome in CRC patients. Notably, USP22 loss resulted in increased mTOR activity with the tumorigenic properties elicited by the loss of USP22 being reversible by mTOR inhibitor treatment in vitro and in vivo. Here, we demonstrate that USP22 can exert tumor-suppressive functions in CRC where its loss increases CRC burden by modulating mTOR activity. Importantly, our data uncover a tumor- and context-specific role of USP22, suggesting that USP22 expression could serve as a marker for therapeutic stratification of cancer patients.
Sepsis disrupts innate and adaptive immune response, and immune disorders may also impact clinical course of sepsis. Notch signaling pathway plays a vital role in T cell modulation and differentiation. The aim of current study was to investigate the immunoregulatory function of Notch signaling pathway to T cells in patients with sepsis and septic shock. Twenty-seven sepsis patients, twenty-five septic shock patients, and twenty-one normal controls (NCs) were enrolled. Notch receptors mRNA levels were semi-quantified by real-time PCR. The absolute numbers of CD3+, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells were measured by flow cytometry. Key transcriptional factors of CD4+ T cells, cytotoxic molecules in CD8+ T cells, and cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells were investigated. The regulatory activities of Notch signaling inhibition by γ-secretase inhibitor (GSI) on purified CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from sepsis and septic shock patients were also assessed. Notch1 mRNA relative level was significantly elevated in sepsis and septic shock patients when compared with NCs. CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were dysfunctional in sepsis and septic shock, which presented as decreased cell accounts, down-regulation of Th1/Th17 transcriptional factors and cytotoxic molecules (perforin, granzyme B, and FasL), and reduced cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells. Notch signaling inhibition by GSI increased Th1 and Th17 differentiation of CD4+ T cells. Moreover, GSI stimulation not only promoted perforin, granzyme B, and FasL mRNA expression in CD8+ T cells, but also elevated CD8+ T cell-induced target cell death and IFN-γ/TNF-α production in sepsis and septic shock. The current data suggest that Notch signaling pathway contributes to T cell dysfunction and limited immune response in sepsis.
Vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B (VAPB) is a tail-anchored protein that is present at several contact sites of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). We now show by immunoelectron microscopy that VAPB also localizes to the inner nuclear membrane (INM). Using a modified enhanced ascorbate peroxidase 2 (APEX2) approach with rapamycin-dependent targeting of the peroxidase to a protein of interest, we searched for proteins that are in close proximity to VAPB, particularly at the INM. In combination with stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC), we confirmed many well-known interaction partners at the level of the ER with a clear distinction between specific and nonspecific hits. Furthermore, we identified emerin, TMEM43, and ELYS as potential interaction partners of VAPB at the INM and the nuclear pore complex, respectively.
Osteosarcoma is a serious malignancy in pediatric patients, which comprises 2.4% of fatal cancer in children and achieves 20% of all primary bone cancers. In the present study, we employed three human osteosarcoma cell lines MG‑63, HOS and U2OS for susceptibility to cytolytic activity of freshly isolated healthy donor NK cells. Cells were lysed by NK cells in a dose dependent manner. MG‑63 cells exhibited less susceptibility to NK cells than HOS and U2OS cells at all cell ratios. The specific mechanism underlying the effects of NK cells on osteosarcoma cells was determined by antibody blockage experiments. The results revealed that granzyme B was the key factor in the NK cell‑induced cytotoxicity of human osteosarcoma cells. To the best of our knowledge, the present study is the first to investigate the expression of PD‑L1 in MG‑63, HOS and U2OS cells. The relative expression of the PD‑L1 gene and protein in MG‑63 cell was greater than HOS and U2OS cells. The specific lysis of human osteosarcoma cells induced by NK cells was enhanced when PD‑L1/PD‑1 was blocked by the PD‑L1 antibody. The present study proposed that the PD‑L1/PD‑1 axis serves an important role in NK cell‑induced cytotoxicity in osteosarcoma via granzyme B secretion. Our findings may contribute to the development of precise treatments for osteosarcoma based on the expression profile of PD‑L1 in patients with this disease.
Terminal differentiation of male germ cells into functional spermatozoa requires shaping and condensation of the nucleus as well as the formation of sperm-specific structures. A transient microtubular structure, the manchette, is mandatory for sperm head shaping and the development of the connecting piece and the sperm tail. The connecting piece or head-to-tail coupling apparatus (HTCA) mediates the tight linkage of sperm head and tail causing decapitation and infertility when faulty. Using mice as the experimental model, several proteins have already been identified affecting the linkage complex, manchette or tail formation when missing. However, our current knowledge is far too rudimentary to even draft an interacting protein network. Depletion of the major outer dense fiber protein 1 (ODF1) mainly caused decapitation and male infertility but validated binding partners collaborating in the formation of sperm-specific structures are largely unknown. Amongst all candidate proteins affecting the HTCA when missing, the structural protein CCDC42 attracted our attention. The coiled-coil domain containing 42 (CCDC42) is important for HTCA and sperm tail formation but is otherwise largely uncharacterized. We show here that CCDC42 is expressed in spermatids and localizes to the manchette, the connecting piece and the tail. Beyond that, we show that CCDC42 is not restricted to male germ cells but is also expressed in somatic cells in which it localizes to the centrosome. Although centrosomal and sperm tail location seems to be irrespective of ODF1 we asked whether both proteins may form an interacting network in the male germ cell. We additionally considered ODF2, a prevalent protein involved in the formation of spermatid-specific cytoskeletal structures, as a putative binding partner. Our data depict for the first time the subcellular location of CCDC42 in spermatids and deepen our knowledge about the composition of the spermatid/sperm-specific structures. The presence of CCDC42 in the centrosome of somatic cells together with the obvious restricted male-specific phenotype when missing strongly argues for a compensatory function by other still unknown proteins most likely of the same family.
Comment in    Ann Rheum Dis. 2021 Nov;80(11):e174.    Ann Rheum Dis. 2021 Nov;80(11):e175.
Introduction: Granzyme B is a serine protease traditionally understood as having a role in immune-mediated cytotoxicity. Over the past decade, this dogma has been challenged, with a new appreciation that granzyme B can exert alternative extracellular roles detrimental to wound closure and remodeling. Granzyme B is elevated in response to tissue injury, chronic inflammation and/or autoimmune skin diseases, resulting in impaired wound healing. Areas covered: This review provides a historical background of granzyme B and a description of how it is regulated. Details are provided on the role of granzyme B in apoptosis as well as newly identified extracellular roles, focusing on those affecting wound healing, including on inflammation, dermal-epidermal junction separation, re-epithelialization, scarring and fibrosis, and autoimmunity. Finally, the use of pharmacological granzyme B inhibitors as potential therapeutic options for wound treatment is discussed. Expert opinion: Endogenous extracellular granzyme B inhibitors have not been identified in human bio-fluids, thus in chronic wound environments granzyme B appears to remain uncontrolled and unregulated. In response, targeted granzyme B inhibitors have been developed for therapeutic applications in wounds. Animal studies trialing inhibitors of granzyme B show improved healing outcomes, and may therefore provide a novel therapeutic approach for wound treatment.
Chromosomal instability (CIN) causes structural and numerical chromosome aberrations and represents a hallmark of cancer. Replication stress (RS) has emerged as a driver for structural chromosome aberrations while mitotic defects can cause whole chromosome missegregation and aneuploidy. Recently, first evidence indicated that RS can also influence chromosome segregation in cancer cells exhibiting CIN, but the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we show that chromosomally unstable cancer cells suffer from very mild RS, which allows efficient proliferation and which can be mimicked by treatment with very low concentrations of aphidicolin. Both, endogenous RS and aphidicolin-induced very mild RS cause chromosome missegregation during mitosis leading to the induction of aneuploidy. Moreover, RS triggers an increase in microtubule plus end growth rates in mitosis, an abnormality previously identified to cause chromosome missegregation in cancer cells. In fact, RS-induced chromosome missegregation is mediated by increased mitotic microtubule growth rates and is suppressed after restoration of proper microtubule growth rates and upon rescue of replication stress. Hence, very mild and cancer-relevant RS triggers aneuploidy by deregulating microtubule dynamics in mitosis.
Splicing expands, reshapes, and regulates the transcriptome of eukaryotic organisms. Despite its importance, key questions remain unanswered, including the following: Can splicing evolve when organisms adapt to new challenges? How does evolution optimize inefficiency of introns' splicing and of the splicing machinery? To explore these questions, we evolved yeast cells that were engineered to contain an inefficiently spliced intron inside a gene whose protein product was under selection for an increased expression level. We identified a combination of mutations in Cis (within the gene of interest) and in Trans (in mRNA-maturation machinery). Surprisingly, the mutations in Cis resided outside of known intronic functional sites and improved the intron's splicing efficiency potentially by easing tight mRNA structures. One of these mutations hampered a protein's domain that was not under selection, demonstrating the evolutionary flexibility of multi-domain proteins as one domain functionality was improved at the expense of the other domain. The Trans adaptations resided in two proteins, Npl3 and Gbp2, that bind pre-mRNAs and are central to their maturation. Interestingly, these mutations either increased or decreased the affinity of these proteins to mRNA, presumably allowing faster spliceosome recruitment or increased time before degradation of the pre-mRNAs, respectively. Altogether, our work reveals various mechanistic pathways toward optimizations of intron splicing to ultimately adapt gene expression patterns to novel demands.
Obesity increases the risk of cancer. Increased levels of hormones (such as oestrogen, insulin, insulin-like growth factor, and leptin), free fatty acid-induced production of reactive oxygen species, an altered intestinal microbiome and chronic inflammation are known to be associated with an increased cancer risk in obese subjects. However, the mechanism underlying the connection between obesity and cancer development remains elusive. Here, we show that a high-fat diet (HFD) promotes tumour initiation/progression and induces a phenotypic switch from PD-1- CD8+ non-exhausted T cells to PD-1+ CD8+ exhausted T cells in a murine breast cancer model. While PD-1- CD8+ non-exhausted T cells predominated in the mammary glands of normal diet (ND)-fed mice, PD-1+ CD8+ exhausted T cells accumulated in the developing tumours of HFD-fed mice. Gene expression profiles indicated that PD-1+ CD8+ T cells expressed higher levels of the tumour-trophic gene Opn and lower levels of the cytotoxic genes Ifng and Gzmb than did PD-1- CD8+ T cells. Our study provides a possible mechanistic linkage between obesity and cancer.
T follicular regulatory (TFR) cells are found in the germinal center (GC) response and help shape the antibody (Ab) response. However, the precise role of TFR cells in the GC is controversial. Here, we addressed TFR cell function using mice with impaired TFR cell development (Bcl6-flox/Foxp3-cre, or Bcl6FC mice), mice with augmented TFR cell development (Blimp1-flox/Foxp3-cre, or Blimp1FC mice), and two different methods of immunization. Unexpectedly, GC B cell levels positively correlated with TFR cell levels. Using a gene profiling approach, we found that TFH cells from TFR-deficient mice showed strong upregulation of granzyme B (Gzmb) and other effector CD8+ T cell genes, many of which were Stat4 dependent. The upregulation of cytotoxic genes was the highest in TFH cells from TFR-deficient mice where Blimp1 was also deleted in Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Bcl6-flox/Prdm1-flox/Foxp3-cre [DKO] mice). Granzyme B- and Eomesodermin-expressing TFH cells correlated with a higher rate of apoptotic GC B cells. Klrg1+ TFH cells from DKO mice expressed higher levels of Gzmb. Our data show that TFR cells repress the development of abnormal cytotoxic TFH cells, and the presence of cytotoxic TFH cells correlates with a lower GC and Ab response. Our data show what we believe is a novel mechanism of action for TFR cells helping the GC response.
BACKGROUND: Natural killer (NK) cell dysfunction following cancer surgery has been shown to promote metastases. Recent studies demonstrate an emerging role for lipids in the modulation of NK cell innate responses. However, the mechanisms involved in lipid modulation of NK cell postoperative anti-tumor function are unknown. This current study will determine whether the lipid accumulation via scavenger receptors on NK cells is responsible for the increase in postoperative metastasis.METHODS: Lipid content in mouse and human NK cells was evaluated by flow cytometry. NK cell scavenger receptor (SR) expression was measured by microarray analysis, validated by qRT-PCR and flow cytometry. NK cell ex vivo and in vivo tumor killing was measured by chromium-release and adoptive transfer assays, respectively. The mediating role of surgery-expanded granulocytic myeloid derived suppressor cells (gMDSC) in SR induction on NK cells was evaluated using co-culture assays.RESULTS: NK cells in surgery-treated mice demonstrated increased lipid accumulation, which occurred via up-regulation of MSR1, CD36 and CD68. NK cells with high lipid content had diminished ability to lyse tumor targets ex vivo. Adoptive transfer of lipid-laden NK cells into NK cell-deficient mice were unable to protect against a lung tumor challenge. Granulocytic MDSC from surgery-treated mice increased SR expression on NK cells. Colorectal cancer surgical patients showed increased NK cell lipid content, higher CD36 expression, decreased granzyme B and perforin production in addition to reduced cytotoxicity in the postoperative period.CONCLUSIONS: Postoperative lipid accumulation promotes the formation of metastases by impairing NK cell function in both preclinical surgical models and human surgical colorectal cancer patient samples. Understanding and targeting the mechanisms underlying lipid accumulation in innate immune NK cells can improve prognosis in cancer surgical patients.
BACKGROUNDHIV-infected patients with poor virologic control and multidrug-resistant virus have limited therapeutic options. The current study was undertaken to evaluate the safety, immunologic effects, and antiviral activity of peripheral lymphocytes transferred from an elite controller, whose immune system is able to control viral replication without antiretroviral medications, to an HLA-B*2705-matched progressor.METHODSApproximately 22 billion cells were collected from an elite controller by lymphapheresis and infused within 6 hours into a recipient with a preinfusion CD4+ T cell count of 10 cells/μL (1%) and HIV plasma viral load of 114,993 copies/mL.RESULTSDonor cells were cleared from the recipient's peripheral blood by day 8. A transient decrease in viral load to 58,421 (day 3) was followed by a rebound to 702,972 (day 6) before returning to baseline values by day 8. The decreased viral load was temporally associated with peak levels of donor T cells, including CD8+ T cells that had high levels of expression of Ki67, perforin, and granzyme B. Notably, recipient CD8+ T cells also showed increased expression of these markers, especially in HIV-specific tetramer-positive cells.CONCLUSIONThese results suggest that the adoptive transfer of lymphocytes from an HIV-infected elite controller to an HIV-infected patient with progressive disease may be able to perturb the immune system of the recipient in both positive and negative ways.TRIAL REGISTRATIONClinicalTrials.gov NCT00559416.FUNDINGIntramural Research Programs of the US NIH Clinical Center and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID); the National Cancer Institute.
Comment in    Nat Methods. 2019 Oct;16(10):953.    Trends Immunol. 2019 Dec;40(12):1075-1077.
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Hepatic phase I drug-metabolizing enzymes CYP2E1, CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 catalyze the biotransformation of Acetaminophen (APAP) and are important in the mediation of toxicity. The potential role of other hepatic and non-hepatic Phase I enzymes in APAP toxicity has not been established.METHODS: PCR array containing 84 genes involved in phase I drug metabolism was examined in subgroups of hospitalized children for APAP overdose, categorized as no toxicity (ALT ≤ 45 IU/L, n=5) and moderate toxicity (ALT ≥ 500 IU/L, n=5).RESULTS: Significant downregulation was observed for ALDH6A1, CYP4F12 and GZMB in the no toxicity subgroup and ALDH1A1, CYP27A1 and GZMB in the moderate toxicity subgroup. qRTPCR confirmed significant downregulation for ALDH1A1, CYP4F12, and GZMB. In-silico analysis identified GZMB 3'UTR to be a target of miR-378a-5p. Overexpression of miR-378a-5p reduced the luciferase activity of GZMB 3'UTR reporter plasmid reportedly by 50%. NK-92 cells transfected with the miR-378a-5p mimic extended the effect of APAP on GZMB protein expression compared to mimic controls. In addition, miR-378a-5p was significantly upregulated in blood samples of children with APAP overdose undergoing NAC treatment.CONCLUSION: Overall, our study suggests the presence of a novel signaling pathway, whereby miR- 378a-5p inhibits GZMB expression in children with APAP overdose.
The phytohormone salicylic acid (SA) controls biotic and abiotic plant stress responses. Plastid-produced chorismate is a branch-point metabolite for SA biosynthesis. Most pathogen-induced SA derives from isochorismate, which is generated from chorismate by the catalytic activity of ISOCHORISMATE SYNTHASE1. Here, we ask how and in which cellular compartment isochorismate is converted to SA. We show that in Arabidopsis, the pathway downstream of isochorismate requires only two additional proteins: ENHANCED DISEASE SUSCEPTIBILITY5, which exports isochorismate from the plastid to the cytosol, and the cytosolic amidotransferase avrPphB SUSCEPTIBLE3 (PBS3). PBS3 catalyzes the conjugation of glutamate to isochorismate to produce isochorismate-9-glutamate, which spontaneously decomposes into SA and 2-hydroxy-acryloyl-N-glutamate. The minimal requirement of three compartmentalized proteins controlling unidirectional forward flux may protect the pathway against evolutionary forces and pathogen perturbations.
BACKGROUND: Immunotherapeutic approaches designed to augment T and B cell mediated killing of tumor cells has met with clinical success in recent years suggesting tremendous potential for treatment in a broad spectrum of tumor types. After complex recognition of target cells by T and B cells, delivery of the serine protease granzyme B (GrB) to tumor cells comprises the cytotoxic insult resulting in a well-characterized, multimodal apoptotic cascade.METHODS: We designed a recombinant fusion construct, GrB-Fc-4D5, composed of a humanized anti-HER2 scFv fused to active GrB for recognition of tumor cells and internal delivery of GrB, simulating T and B cell therapy. We assessed the construct's antigen-binding specificity and GrB enzymatic activity, as well as in vitro cytotoxicity and internalization into target and control cells. We also assessed pharmacokinetic and toxicology parameters in vivo.RESULTS: GrB-Fc-4D5 was highly cytotoxic to Her2 positive cells such as SKBR3, MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 with IC50 values of 56, 99 and 27 nM, respectively, and against a panel of HER2+ cell lines regardless of endogenous expression levels of the PI-9 inhibitor. Contemporaneous studies with Kadcyla demonstrated similar levels of in vitro activity against virtually all cells tested. GrB-Fc-4D5 internalized rapidly into target SKOV3 cells within 1 h of exposure rapidly delivering GrB to the cytoplasmic compartment. In keeping with its relatively high molecular weight (160 kDa), the construct demonstrated a terminal-phase serum half-life in mice of 39.2 h. Toxicity studies conducted on BALB/c mice demonstrated no statistically significant changes in SGPT, SGOT or serum LDH. Histopathologic analysis of tissues from treated mice demonstrated no drug-related changes in any tissues examined.CONCLUSION: GrB-Fc-4D5 shows excellent, specific cytotoxicity and demonstrates no significant toxicity in normal, antigen-negative murine models. This construct constitutes a novel approach against HER2-expressing tumors and is an excellent candidate for further development.
B lymphocytes with regulatory or effector functions synthesize granzyme B (GZMB). We investigated the frequency and phenotype of GZMB-producing B cells in breast tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs). Mononuclear cells were isolated from 48 axillary lymph nodes and were stimulated with anti-BCR (B cell receptor), recombinant interleukin (IL)-21 and CD40 L alone or in combination. Flow cytometry was used to evaluate the expression of GZMB in B cells, and in 4 samples the phenotype of GZMB+ B cells was determined. B cells produced GZMB only when stimulated with a combination of IL-21 and anti-BCR for at least 16 h. Adding CD40 L to IL-21 and anti-BCR stimuli resulted in lower GZMB production in B cells. A small fraction of B cells was able to produce perforin in all stimulation conditions, and the majority of GZMB+ B cells were perforin-negative. Both naïve (CD24lowCD27-) and active/memory (CD24hiCD27+) B cells expressed GZMB. In patients with invasive ductal carcinoma, the frequency of GZMB+ B cells was significantly lower in metastatic compared to non-metastatic lymph nodes. The frequency of GZMB+ B cells did not significantly correlate with prognostic factors such as stage, tumor size or Her2 expression. In summary, a subpopulation of both naïve and memory B cells expressed GZMB in breast TDLNs. Our findings underscore the need to investigate the function of GZMB+ B cells in breast tumor immunity.
We developed this comprehensive 28-color flow cytometry panel with the aim to measure a variety of T cell effector functions in combination with T cell differentiation markers (CCR7, CD27, CD28, CD45RO, CD95) in γδ T cells and CD4+ and CD8+ αβ T cells (Table 1). The effector functions measured in this panel include activation and co-stimulatory molecules (CD69, CD137, and CD154), cytokines (IL-2, IL-13, IL-17A, IL-21, IL-22, TNF, and IFNγ), the chemokine IL-8, cytotoxic molecules (perforin and granzyme B), and the degranulation marker CD107a. In addition, Ki67 enables the identification and analysis of recently activated T cells. To characterize regulatory T cells (Tregs ), we included CD25, CD39, and the canonical Tregs transcription factor FoxP3. We developed and optimized this panel for cryopreserved human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and ionomycin. However, we successfully tested other types of stimulation such as staphylococcus enterotoxin B (SEB) or a mix of immunodominant peptides (CEF peptide pool) from cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and influenza. Published 2019. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA.
Checkpoint inhibitors produce durable responses in numerous metastatic cancers, but immune-related adverse events (irAEs) complicate and limit their benefit. IrAEs can affect organ systems idiosyncratically; presentations range from mild and self-limited to fulminant and fatal. The molecular mechanisms underlying irAEs are poorly understood. Here, we report a fatal case of encephalitis arising during anti-programmed cell death receptor 1 therapy in a patient with metastatic melanoma. Histologic analyses revealed robust T cell infiltration and prominent programmed death ligand 1 expression. We identified 209 reported cases in global pharmacovigilance databases (across multiple cancer types) of encephalitis associated with checkpoint inhibitor regimens, with a 19% fatality rate. We performed further analyses from the index case and two additional cases to shed light on this recurrent and fulminant irAE. Spatial and multi-omic analyses pinpointed activated memory CD4+ T cells as highly enriched in the inflamed, affected region. We identified a highly oligoclonal T cell receptor repertoire, which we localized to activated memory cytotoxic (CD45RO+GZMB+Ki67+) CD4 cells. We also identified Epstein-Barr virus-specific T cell receptors and EBV+ lymphocytes in the affected region, which we speculate contributed to neural inflammation in the index case. Collectively, the three cases studied here identify CD4+ and CD8+ T cells as culprits of checkpoint inhibitor-associated immune encephalitis.
A subset of natural killer (NK) cells with CD56+/brightCD16dim/- expression is recently shown to present critical regulatory functions. Functional characteristics of CD56+/bright NK cells in osteoarthritis (OA) patients remains unknown. Here, we remedied this problem by comparing the NK cells from healthy controls and OA patients. Data showed that the CD56brightCD16- NK subset was significantly enriched in OA patients. These CD56brightCD16- NK cells from OA patients presented significantly higher IFNG transcription and IFN-γ protein secretion than those from healthy controls, both directly ex vivo and after activation via various stimulating reagents, including IL-2/IL-15, K562, and PMA/ionomycin. On the other hand, the transcription and secretion of granzyme A (Gzm-A), Gzm-B, and perforin were significantly lower in CD56brightCD16- NK cells from OA patients than in CD56brightCD16- NK cells from healthy controls. Also, the CD56brightCD16- NK cells from OA patients were less capable of suppressing the proliferation of autologous CD4+ T cells, in a manner that was dependent on the expression of Gzm-B and perforin. Interestingly, CD4+ T cells co-incubated with CD56brightCD16- NK cells were prone to express a higher level of IFNG, and the CD56brightCD16- NK cells from OA patients were more potent at stimulating IFNG than the CD56brightCD16- NK cells from healthy controls. Overall, our investigation demonstrated that CD56brightCD16- NK cells from osteoarthritis patients were shifted toward an IFN-γ-promoting phenotype and with reduced regulatory functions.
Research in various fields of evolutionary biology has shown that divergence in gene expression is a key driver for phenotypic evolution. An exceptional contribution of cis-regulatory divergence has been found to contribute to morphological diversification. In the light of these findings, the analysis of genome-wide expression data has become one of the central tools to link genotype and phenotype information on a more mechanistic level. However, in many studies, especially if general conclusions are drawn from such data, a key feature of gene regulation is often neglected. With our article, we want to raise awareness that gene regulation and thus gene expression is highly context dependent. Genes show tissue- and stage-specific expression. We argue that the regulatory context must be considered in comparative expression studies.
Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is a chronic autoimmune liver disease with an immunopathogenesis that includes highly differentiated cytotoxic T cell infiltration in portal areas. We have taken advantage of a large and well-defined cohort of patients with PBC, AIH, chronic hepatitis virus, and healthy controls to study for the presence of highly differentiated T cells which express the killer cell lectin-like receptor G1 (KLRG1). Such studies were performed using both liver and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In particular, gene expression data (GSE79850) from 16 PBC patients stratified according to future risk of liver transplantation were analyzed for markers of highly differentiated cytotoxic T cells. Liver biopsy samples from 44 PBC patients were studied by immunohistochemistry and a separate cohort of PBC blood samples were studied by flow cytometry. Gene expression data demonstrated correlation of increased KLRG1 and cytotoxic lymphocyte molecules, such as granzyme B (GZMB) and perforin (PRF1), to disease severity as measured by future risk of liver transplantation. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated abundant infiltration of KLRG1+ cells into liver portal areas (mean of 45% of infiltrating cells, range 25-75%) positively correlated with hepatic inflammatory (r = 0.47, p = 0.001) and hepatic fibrosis (r = 0.34, p = 0.021) scores. KLRG1+ lymphocyte liver portal area infiltration was positively correlated with serum alkaline phosphatase (r = 0.45, p = 0.005) and GGT (r = 0.40, p = 0.014), and AST (r = 0.35, p = 0.033) levels. Mononuclear blood flow cytometry studies showed KLRG1+ lymphocytes had greater levels of cytotoxic molecules (granzyme B and perforin), inflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ and TNF-α) and inflammatory chemokine receptors (CCR5 and CX3CR1) than KLRG1-counterparts. However, clearly the most significant data was that found in liver with the intense portal infiltrates that are unique to PBC. Conclusion: Highly cytotoxic KLRG1+ lymphocytes have invaded PBC liver portal areas. Liver KLRG1 gene expression and the abundance of KLRG1+ lymphocytes are positively correlated with disease biomarkers used as clinical trial outcome measures (liver transplantation and serum alkaline phosphatase), suggesting the targeting of KLRG1+ lymphocytes as a rational approach for PBC therapeutic drug development.
BACKGROUND: Type I interferons (IFN-I) have recently emerged as key regulators of tumor response to chemotherapy and immunotherapy. However, IFN-I function in cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) in the tumor microenvironment is largely unknown.METHODS: Tumor tissues and CTLs of human colorectal cancer patients were analyzed for interferon (alpha and beta) receptor 1 (IFNAR1) expression. IFNAR1 knock out (IFNAR-KO), mixed wild type (WT) and IFNAR1-KO bone marrow chimera mice, and mice with IFNAR1 deficiency only in T cells (IFNAR1-TKO) were used to determine IFN-I function in T cells in tumor suppression. IFN-I target genes in tumor-infiltrating and antigen-specific CTLs were identified and functionally analyzed.RESULTS: IFNAR1 expression level is significantly lower in human colorectal carcinoma tissue than in normal colon tissue. IFNAR1 protein is also significantly lower on CTLs from colorectal cancer patients than those from healthy donors. Although IFNAR1-KO mice exhibited increased susceptibility to methylcholanthrene-induced sarcoma, IFNAR1-sufficient tumors also grow significantly faster in IFNAR1-KO mice and in mice with IFNAR1 deficiency only in T cells (IFNAR1-TKO), suggesting that IFN-I functions in T cells to enhance host cancer immunosurveillance. Strikingly, tumor-infiltrating CTL levels are similar between tumor-bearing WT and IFNAR1-KO mice. Competitive reconstitution of mixed WT and IFNAR1-KO bone marrow chimera mice further determined that IFNAR1-deficient naïve CTLs exhibit no deficiency in response to vaccination to generate antigen-specific CTLs as compared to WT CTLs. Gene expression profiling determined that Gzmb expression is down-regulated in tumor-infiltrating CTLs of IFNAR1-KO mice as compared to WT mice, and in antigen-specific IFNAR1-KO CTLs as compared to WT CTLs in vivo. Mechanistically, we determined that IFN-I activates STAT3 that binds to the Gzmb promoter to activate Gzmb transcription in CTLs.CONCLUSION: IFN-I induces STAT3 activation to activate Gzmb expression to enhance CTL effector function to suppress tumor development. Human colorectal carcinoma may use down-regulation of IFNAR1 on CTLs to suppress CTL effector function to evade host cancer immunosurveillance.
We have previously reported that ICOS-Ig expressed locally by a PIEC xenograft induces a perigraft cellular accumulation of CD4+ CD25+ Foxp3+ T cells and specific xenograft prolongation. In the present study we isolated and purified CD4+ CD25+ T cells from ICOS-Ig secreting PIEC grafts to examine their phenotype and mechanism of xenograft survival using knockout and mutant mice. CD4+ CD25+ T cells isolated from xenografts secreting ICOS-Ig were analysed by flow cytometry and gene expression by real-time PCR. Regulatory function was examined by suppression of xenogeneic or allogeneic primed CD4 T cells in vivo. Graft prolongation was shown to be dependent on a pre-existing Foxp3+ Treg, IL-10, perforin and granzyme B. CD4+ CD25+ Foxp3+ T cells isolated from xenografts secreting ICOS-Ig demonstrated a phenotype consistent with nTreg but with a higher expression of CD275 (ICOSL), expression of CD278 (ICOS) and MHC II and loss of CD73. Moreover, these cells were functional and specifically suppressed xenogeinic but not allogeneic primed T cells in vivo.
COP9 signalosome (CSN) and Den1/A deneddylases physically interact and promote multicellular development in fungi. CSN recognizes Skp1/cullin-1/Fbx E3 cullin-RING ligases (CRLs) without substrate and removes their posttranslational Nedd8 modification from the cullin scaffold. This results in CRL complex disassembly and allows Skp1 adaptor/Fbx receptor exchange for altered substrate specificity. We characterized the novel ubiquitin-specific protease UspA of the mold Aspergillusnidulans, which corresponds to CSN-associated human Usp15 and interacts with six CSN subunits. UspA reduces amounts of ubiquitinated proteins during fungal development, and the uspA gene expression is repressed by an intact CSN. UspA is localized in proximity to nuclei and recruits proteins related to nuclear transport and transcriptional processing, suggesting functions in nuclear entry control. UspA accelerates the formation of asexual conidiospores, sexual development, and supports the repression of secondary metabolite clusters as the derivative of benzaldehyde (dba) genes. UspA reduces protein levels of the fungal NF-kappa B-like velvet domain protein VeA, which coordinates differentiation and secondary metabolism. VeA stability depends on the Fbx23 receptor, which is required for light controlled development. Our data suggest that the interplay between CSN deneddylase, UspA deubiquitinase, and SCF-Fbx23 ensures accurate levels of VeA to support fungal development and an appropriate secondary metabolism.
E3 cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL) complexes recognize specific substrates and are activated by covalent modification with ubiquitin-like Nedd8. Deneddylation inactivates CRLs and allows Cand1/A to bind and exchange substrate recognition subunits. Human as well as most fungi possess a single gene for the receptor exchange factor Cand1, which is split and rearranged in aspergilli into two genes for separate proteins. Aspergillus nidulans CandA-N blocks the neddylation site, and CandA-C inhibits the interaction to the adaptor/substrate receptor subunits similar to the respective N-terminal and C-terminal parts of single Cand1. The pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus and related species express a CandA-C with a 190-amino-acid N-terminal extension domain encoded by an additional exon. This extension corresponds in most aspergilli, including A. nidulans, to a gene directly upstream of candA-C encoding a 20-kDa protein without human counterpart. This protein was named CandA-C1, because it is also required for the cellular deneddylation/neddylation cycle and can form a trimeric nuclear complex with CandA-C and CandA-N. CandA-C and CandA-N are required for asexual and sexual development and control a distinct secondary metabolism. CandA-C1 and the corresponding domain of A. fumigatus control spore germination, vegetative growth, and the repression of additional secondary metabolites. This suggests that the dissection of the conserved Cand1-encoding gene within the genome of aspergilli was possible because it allowed the integration of a fungus-specific protein required for growth into the CandA complex in two different gene set versions, which might provide an advantage in evolution.IMPORTANCEAspergillus species are important for biotechnological applications, like the production of citric acid or antibacterial agents. Aspergilli can cause food contamination or invasive aspergillosis to immunocompromised humans or animals. Specific treatment is difficult due to limited drug targets and emerging resistances. The CandA complex regulates, as a receptor exchange factor, the activity and substrate variability of the ubiquitin labeling machinery for 26S proteasome-mediated protein degradation. Only Aspergillus species encode at least two proteins that form a CandA complex. This study shows that Aspergillus species had to integrate a third component into the CandA receptor exchange factor complex that is unique to aspergilli and required for vegetative growth, sexual reproduction, and activation of the ubiquitin labeling machinery. These features have interesting implications for the evolution of protein complexes and could make CandA-C1 an interesting candidate for target-specific drug design to control fungal growth without affecting the human ubiquitin-proteasome system.
A wide-range of myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC)-mediated immune suppressive functions has previously been described. Nevertheless, potential novel mechanisms by which MDSCs aid tumor progression are, in all likelihood, still unrecognized. Next to its well-known expression in natural killer cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), granzyme B (GzmB) expression has been found in different cell types. In an MDSC culture model, we demonstrated perforin and GzmB expression. Furthermore, similar observations were made in MDSCs isolated from tumor-bearing mice. Even in MDSCs from humans, GzmB expression was demonstrated. Of note, B16F10 melanoma cells co-cultured with perforin/GzmB knock out mice (KO) MDSCs displayed a remarkable decrease in invasive potential. B16F10 melanoma cells co-injected with KO MDSCs, displayed a significant slower growth curve compared to tumor cells co-injected with wild type (WT) MDSCs. In vivo absence of perforin/GzmB in MDSCs resulted in a higher number of CD8+ T-cells. Despite this change in favor of CD8+ T-cell infiltration, we observed low interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and high programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression, suggesting that other immunosuppressive mechanisms render these CD8+ T-cells dysfunctional. Taken together, our results suggest that GzmB expression in MDSCs is another means to promote tumor growth and warrants further investigation to unravel the exact underlying mechanism.
The drug targets IL23 and IL12 regulate pathogenicity and plasticity of intestinal Th17 cells in Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), the two most common inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). However, studies examining Th17 dysregulation in mesenteric lymph nodes (mLNs) of these patients are rare. We showed that in mLNs, CD could be distinguished from UC by increased frequencies of CCR6+CXCR3-RORγ+Tbet-CD4+ (Th17) memory T cells enriched in CD62Llow effector memory T cells (TEM), and their differentially expressed molecular profile. Th17 TEM cells (expressing IL17A, IL17F, RORC, and STAT3) displayed a higher pathogenic/cytotoxic (IL23R, IL18RAP, and GZMB, CD160, PRF1) gene signature in CD relative to UC, while non-pathogenic/regulatory genes (IL9, FOXP3, CTLA4) were more elevated in UC. In both CD and UC, IL12 but not IL23, augmented IFNγ expression in Th17 TEM and switched their molecular profile toward an ex-Th17 (Th1*)-biased transcriptomic signature (increased IFNG, and decreased TCF7, IL17A), suggesting that Th17 plasticity occurs in mLNs before their recruitment to inflamed colon. We propose that differences observed between Th17 cell frequencies and their molecular profile in CD and UC might have implications in understanding disease pathogenesis, and thus, therapeutic management of patients with IBD.
Removal of introns from pre-mRNAs is an essential step in eukaryotic gene expression, mediated by spliceosomes that contain snRNAs as key components. Although snRNAs are transcribed in the nucleus and function in the same compartment, all except U6 shuttle to the cytoplasm. Surprisingly, the physiological relevance for shuttling is unclear, in particular because the snRNAs in Saccharomyces cerevisiae were reported to remain nuclear. Here, we show that all yeast pre-snRNAs including U6 undergo a stepwise maturation process after nuclear export by Mex67 and Xpo1. Sm- and Lsm-ring attachment occurs in the cytoplasm and is important for the snRNA re-import, mediated by Cse1 and Mtr10. Finally, nuclear pre-snRNA cleavage and trimethylation of the 5'-cap finalizes shuttling. Importantly, preventing pre-snRNAs from being exported or processed results in faulty spliceosome assembly and subsequent genome-wide splicing defects. Thus, pre-snRNA export is obligatory for functional splicing and resembles an essential evolutionarily conserved quality assurance step.
OBJECTIVE: Nutritional factors such as extensively hydrolyzed casein (eHC) have been proposed to exert anti-inflammatory activity and affect clinical outcomes such as tolerance development in cow's milk allergy. Granzyme B (GrB) induces apoptosis in target cells and also controls the inflammatory response. Whether eHC could affect the activity of granzyme B and play a role in GrB-mediated inflammatory responses in vitro was unknown.METHODS: The activity of GrB was measured using the substrate Ac-IEPD-pNA. Inflammatory responses were induced with GrB in HCT-8 and THP-1 cells, and pro-inflammatory cytokines were determined at the transcriptional and protein level.RESULTS: GrB could induce the expression of IL-1β in HCT-8 cells, and IL-8 and MCP-1 in THP-1 cells, respectively. Interestingly, GrB acted synergistically on LPS-induced inflammation in HCT-8 cells and eHC reduced pro-inflammatory responses in both GrB and LPS-mediated inflammation. Further analyses revealed that eHC could inhibit the biological activities and cytotoxic activities of GrB and then could reduce GrB-mediated inflammatory response.CONCLUSION: The results from the current study suggest that anti-inflammatory activity of extensively hydrolyzed casein is, to a certain extent, mediated through modulation of granzyme B activity and responses.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Pinellia pedatisecta Schott (PPS)is a traditional Chinese medicine functioning as reducing swelling and drying dampness. Pinellia pedatisecta Schott extract (PE) has been confirmed to suppress cervical tumor growth and modulate the antitumor CD4+T helper immunity towards Th1.AIMS: To explore the roles of PE in modulating tumor-associated dendritic cell (TADC) activation and function.METHODS: For in vivo studies, HPV+TC-1 mouse tumor models were conducted and treated with PE for 3 weeks (10 mg/kg/d or 20 mg/kg/day). The immune profiles of spleen, tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs), tumor and serum were analyzed by flow cytometry and multiplexed bead-based immunoassay. For in vitro studies, TADCs were generated by tumor-conditioned medium and treated with PE solution. The maturation and function of TADCs were evaluated by flow cytometry, ELISA, mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) and cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) assay. Furthermore, the effect of PE on SOCS1 pathway was examined by western blotting and real time PCR.RESULTS: PE upregulated the expression of major histocompatibility complex class II (MHCII) and costimulatory molecules CD80 and CD86 on TADCs and promoted IL-12 secretion from TADCs. In addition, PE-treated TADCs promoted the proliferation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and induced the differentiation of IFN-γ+CD4+ and GZMB+CD8+ T cells. PE-treated TADCs also elicited a more powerful antigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response. Furthermore, PE treatment in vivo enhanced the proliferation, activated the functional ability (increased Ki67, CD137, GZMB or IFN-γ, TNF-α expression) and reversed the exhaustion (impaired CD95 or PD-1 expression) of antitumor T cells. Mechanistically, PE inhibited SOCS1-restrained JAK2 activation in TADCs.CONCLUSIONS: PE efficiently restored the immature status of TADCs and enhanced their function as antigen-presenting cells to further elicit antitumor Th1 and CTL responses, suggesting that PE may be a potential immunomodulatory drug for cancer treatment.
Augmentation of natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity is one of the greatest challenges for cancer immunotherapy. Although histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG), a 75-kDa glycoprotein with various immunomodulatory activities, reportedly elicits antitumor immunity, its effect on NK cell cytotoxicity is unclear. We assessed NK cell cytotoxicity against K562 cells. We also measured concentrations of cytokines and granzyme B in the cell supernatant. The proportion of CD56bright NK cells and NK cell surface PD-1 expression was assessed with flow cytometry. The neutralizing effects of anti-C-type lectin-like receptor (CLEC) 1B against HRG were also measured. NK cell morphological changes were analyzed via confocal microscopy. HRG significantly increased NK cell cytotoxicity against K562 cell lines. HRG also increased the release of granzyme B and the proportion of CD56bright NK cells. Further, HRG was able to decrease NK cell surface PD-1 expression. The effects of HRG on NK cells were reversed with anti-CLEC-1B antibodies. Additionally, we confirmed NK cell nuclear morphology and F-actin distribution, which are involved in the regulation of cytotoxic granule secretion. Because both PD-1 and CLEC-1B are associated with prognosis during malignancy, HRG incorporates these molecules to exert the antitumor immunity role. These facts indicate the potential of HRG to be a new target for cancer immunotherapy.
Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based nontargeted metabolome approaches aim to detect chemotypes as markers for stress, disease, developmental, or genetic perturbation. Herein, we present a metabolite fingerprinting workflow, which is applicable for the analysis of tissues and fluids derived from plants and fungi. This is based on a broad metabolite coverage by a two-phase extraction and the separate analysis of polar, and nonpolar compounds by positive as well as negative electrospray ionization. For analysis of the resulting comprehensive data sets, the interactive and user-friendly data mining software MarVis-Suite is used. It supports statistical analysis, adduct correction, data merging, as well as visualization of multivariate data. Finally, MarVis shapes marker identification to the organism of interest. Therefore, it provides access to the species-specific databases KEGG and BioCyc and to custom databases tailored by the user.
BACKGROUND: Natural killer (NK) cells are part of the innate immune system and provide surveillance against viruses and cancers. The ability of NK cells to kill virus-infected cells depends on the balance between the effects of inhibitory and activating NK cell receptors. This study aimed to investigate the phenotypic profile and the functional capacity of NK cells in the context of HTLV-1 infection.METHODS: This cross-sectional study sequentially recruited HTLV-1 infected individuals with HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) and asymptomatic HTLV-1 (AS) from the Integrated and Multidisciplinary HTLV Center in Salvador, Brazil. Blood samples from healthy blood donors served as controls. NK cell surface receptors (NKG2D, KIR2DL2/KIR2DL3, NKp30, NKG2A, NKp46, TIM-3 and PD-1), intracellular cytolytic (Granzyme B, perforin) and functional markers (CD107a for degranulation, IFN-γ) were assayed by flow cytometry in the presence or absence of standard K562 target cells. In addition, cytotoxicity assays were performed in the presence or absence of anti-NKp30.RESULTS: The frequency of NKp30+ NK cells was significantly decreased in HAM/TSP patients [58%, Interquartile Range (IQR) 30-61] compared to controls (73%, IQR 54-79, p = 0.04). The production of cytolytic (perforin, granzyme B) and functional markers (CD107a and IFN-γ) was higher in unstimulated NK cells from HAM/TSP and AS patients compared to controls. By contrast, stimulation with K562 target cells did not alter the frequency of CD107a+ NK cells in HAM/TSP subjects compared to the other groups. Blockage of the NKp30 receptor was shown to decrease cytotoxic activity (CD107a) and IFN-γ expression only in asymptomatic HTLV-1-infected individuals.CONCLUSIONS: NK cells from individuals with a diagnosis of HAM/TSP present decreased expression of the activating receptor NKp30, in addition to elevated degranulation activity that remained unaffected after blocking the NKp30 receptor.
The aetiology of inflammatory myopathies is not clearly known. A predominance of activated Cd8+ T lymphocytes in inflammatory infiltrates has already been detected. Superantigens activate lymphocytes in an oligoclonal manner. In the present investigation, we investigated local effects after injection of the superantigen (Sag) Staphylococcus enterotoxin A (SEA) in the quadriceps femoris muscle of Lewis rats. Histopathology and gene expression profiling was performed after injection of SEA or saline (control group) after one, three and 10 days. Histology revealed focal myositis predominated by Cd8+ T lymphocytes with a perimysial, endomysial and perivascular distribution, peaking 3 days after SEA injection. Using DNA microarray analysis (Affymetrix Rat Genome 230 2.0) genes that were differentially over-expressed at least 15 times at days one, three or ten after SEA injection were further analysed. One day after SEA injection over-expressed genes were related to the immune response (e.g. Fcnb, CD8a) but also to cell proliferation, differentiation and migration (e.g. Mpp2). Three days after SEA injection, differentially overexpressed genes were mainly related to the immune reaction with a clear signature for a Cd8+ T lymphocyte response (e.g. Cd3d, Cd8, Prf1, Gzmb). Ten days after SEA injection, the differentially overexpressed genes were again associated with the immune reaction (e.g. Cd3d, Il2) but also with regenerative processes and wound healing (e.g. Tgfa, Tpm1, Ripply1). The inflammatory response induced by SEA in Lewis rats shares histological and molecular similarities to polymyositis in humans. Therefore, SEA induced myositis can be taken as a new and apt model for polymyositis.
Jasmonoyl-isoleucine (JA-Ile) is a phytohormone that orchestrates plant defenses in response to wounding, feeding insects, or necrotrophic pathogens. JA-Ile metabolism has been studied intensively, but its catabolism as a potentially important mechanism for the regulation of JA-Ile-mediated signaling is not well-understood. Especially the enzyme(s) responsible for specifically glycosylating 12-hydroxy-jasmonic acid (12-OH-JA) and thereby producing 12-O-glucopyranosyl-jasmonic acid (12-O-Glc-JA) is still elusive. Here, we used co-expression analyses of available Arabidopsis thaliana transcriptomic data, identifying four UDP-dependent glycosyltransferase (UGT) genes as wound-induced and 12-OH-JA-related, namely, UGT76E1, UGT76E2, UGT76E11, and UGT76E12 We heterologously expressed and purified the corresponding proteins to determine their individual substrate specificities and kinetic parameters. We then used an ex vivo metabolite-fingerprinting approach to investigate these proteins in conditions as close as possible to their natural environment, with an emphasis on greatly extending the range of potential substrates. As expected, we found that UGT76E1 and UGT76E2 are 12-OH-JA-UGTs, with UGT76E1 contributing a major in vivo UGT activity, as deduced from Arabidopsis mutants with abolished or increased UGT gene expression. In contrast, recombinant UGT76E11 acted on an unidentified compound and also glycosylated two other oxylipins, 11-hydroxy-7,9,13-hexadecatrienoic acid (11-HHT) and 13-hydroxy-9,11,15-octadecatrienoic acid (13-HOT), which were also accepted by recombinant UGT76E1, UGT76E2, and UGT76E12 enzymes. UGT76E12 glycosylated 12-OH-JA only to a low extent, but also accepted an artificial hydroxylated fatty acid and low amounts of kaempferol. In conclusion, our findings have elucidated the missing step in the wound-induced synthesis of 12-O-glucopyranosyl-jasmonic acid in A. thaliana.
Author information:(1)Center for Data Sciences, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.(2)Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(3)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(4)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.(5)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology, Allergy, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(6)Department of Rheumatology, Barts Health NHS Trust, London, UK.(7)Division of Rheumatology, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY, USA.(8)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.(9)Division of Allergy, Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA.(10)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.(11)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, USA.(12)Arthritis and Tissue Degeneration, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY, USA.(13)Department of Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, Allergy and Immunology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.(14)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(15)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA.(16)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY, USA.(17)Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, Northwell Health, Manhasset, New York, NY, USA.(18)Division of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.(19)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(20)Centre for Experimental Medicine & Rheumatology, William Harvey Research Institute, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.(21)NIHR Birmingham Biomedical Research Centre, University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust and University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.(22)University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.(23)Division of Rheumatology, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA.(24)Center for Musculoskeletal Research, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA.(25)Center for Data Sciences, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. soumya@broadinstitute.org.(26)Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. soumya@broadinstitute.org.(27)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. soumya@broadinstitute.org.(28)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA. soumya@broadinstitute.org.(29)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology, Allergy, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. soumya@broadinstitute.org.(30)Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics, Centre for Musculoskeletal Research, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. soumya@broadinstitute.org.(#)Contributed equally
Spiders have evolved a unique male copulatory organ, the pedipalp bulb. The morphology of the bulb is species specific and plays an important role in species recognition and prezygotic reproductive isolation. Despite its importance for spider biodiversity, the mechanisms that control bulb development are virtually unknown. We have used confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and diffusible iodine-based contrast-enhanced micro computed tomography (dice-µCT) to study bulb development in the spider Parasteatoda tepidariorum. These imaging technologies enabled us to study bulb development in situ, without the use of destructive procedures for the first time. We show here that the inflated pedipalp tip in the subadult stage is filled with haemolymph that rapidly coagulates. Coagulation indicates histolytic processes that disintegrate tibia and tarsus, similar to histolytic processes during metamorphosis in holometabolous insects. The coagulated material contains cell inclusions that likely represent the cell source for the re-establishment of tarsus and tibia after histolysis, comparable to the histoblasts in insect metamorphosis. The shape of the coagulated mass prefigures the shape of the adult tarsus (cymbium) like a blueprint for the histoblasts. This suggests a unique role for controlled coagulation after histolysis in the metamorphosis-like morphogenesis of the male pedipalp.
Arabidopsis thaliana mlo3 mutant plants are not affected in pathogen infection phenotypes but-reminiscent of mlo2 mutant plants-exhibit spontaneous callose deposition and signs of early leaf senescence. The family of Mildew resistance Locus O (MLO) proteins is best known for its profound effect on the outcome of powdery mildew infections: when the appropriate MLO protein is absent, the plant is fully resistant to otherwise virulent powdery mildew fungi. However, most members of the MLO protein family remain functionally unexplored. Here, we investigate Arabidopsis thaliana MLO3, the closest relative of AtMLO2, AtMLO6 and AtMLO12, which are the Arabidopsis MLO genes implicated in the powdery mildew interaction. The co-expression network of AtMLO3 suggests association of the gene with plant defense-related processes such as salicylic acid homeostasis. Our extensive analysis shows that mlo3 mutants are unaffected regarding their infection phenotype upon challenge with the powdery mildew fungi Golovinomyces orontii and Erysiphe pisi, the oomycete Hyaloperonospora arabidopsidis, and the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae (the latter both in terms of basal and systemic acquired resistance), indicating that the protein does not play a major role in the response to any of these pathogens. However, mlo3 genotypes display spontaneous callose deposition as well as signs of early senescence in 6- or 7-week-old rosette leaves in the absence of any pathogen challenge, a phenotype that is reminiscent of mlo2 mutant plants. We hypothesize that de-regulated callose deposition in mlo3 genotypes might be the result of a subtle transient aberration of salicylic acid-jasmonic acid homeostasis during development.
PURPOSE: Although both anti-PD-1 antibody and treatments using anti-PD-L1 antibody are currently in clinical use, their therapeutic effects vary according to cancer type. One of the factors accounting for this variability is the expression level of the immune checkpoint molecule that differs between cancer types; thus, it is important to clarify the relationship between clinical outcomes and immune checkpoint molecules for all types of human cancer. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical outcome of osteosarcoma in relation to PD-L1, PRF, GZMB, and IFNγ expression.METHODS: Using 19 clinical specimens of osteosarcoma, we examined the expression of PD-L1, PRF, GZMB, and IFNγ in relation to their clinical outcomes.RESULTS: PD-L1 expression correlated with early metastatic formation in clinical specimens of osteosarcoma, and the group with highly expressed functional markers for T cells such as PRF and GZMB resulted in a long overall survival time.CONCLUSION: This is the first study to elucidate the clinical outcomes of osteosarcoma in relation to PD-L1, PRF, GZMB, and IFNγ expression. This study provides valuable information regarding the clinical indication and prediction of effect for anti-PD-1 antibody in osteosarcoma.
Cyclosporin A (CSA) is a widely used drug to prevent the immune cell function. It is well known that CSA blocks transcription of cytokine genes in activated T cells. The connection between T cells and CSA has been well established. However, the effect of CSA on natural killer (NK) cells is not thoroughly understood. Therefore, in the present study, splenocytes and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were treated with CSA in the presence of concanavalin A (Con A) or interleukin-2 (IL-2). CSA at higher concentrations induces apoptosis and inhibition of proliferation, while lower concentrations showed synergistically enhanced proliferation in splenocytes and PBMCs. Further, CSA favored the in vitro conversion of CD3+CD161+ cells. Splenocytes and PBMC were found to have synergistic proliferation with Con A, and PBMC exhibited significantly higher expression of NKp30, NKp44, and granzyme B along with enhanced cytotoxicity against K-562 cells in CSA-treated animals. Proliferation assay also showed that proliferation of CD161+ cells was higher in CSA-treated animals. Collectively, our results suggest that CSA differentially influences the population, function, and expression of the NK cell phenotype.
The corn smut fungus Ustilago maydis requires the unfolded protein response (UPR) to maintain homeostasis of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) during the biotrophic interaction with its host plant Zea mays (maize). Crosstalk between the UPR and pathways controlling pathogenic development is mediated by protein-protein interactions between the UPR regulator Cib1 and the developmental regulator Clp1. Cib1/Clp1 complex formation results in mutual modification of the connected regulatory networks thereby aligning fungal proliferation in planta, efficient effector secretion with increased ER stress tolerance and long-term UPR activation in planta. Here we address UPR-dependent gene expression and its modulation by Clp1 using combinatorial RNAseq/ChIPseq analyses. We show that increased ER stress resistance is connected to Clp1-dependent alterations of Cib1 phosphorylation, protein stability and UPR gene expression. Importantly, we identify by deletion screening of UPR core genes the signal peptide peptidase Spp1 as a novel key factor that is required for establishing a compatible biotrophic interaction between U. maydis and its host plant maize. Spp1 is dispensable for ER stress resistance and vegetative growth but requires catalytic activity to interfere with the plant defense, revealing a novel virulence specific function for signal peptide peptidases in a biotrophic fungal/plant interaction.
BACKGROUND: Aberrant epigenetic patterns are a hallmark of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Mutations in profound epigenetic regulators DNMT3A and IDH1/2 often occur concurrently in AML.OBJECTIVES: The aim was to analyze DNA methylation, hydroxymethylation and mRNA expression profiles in AML with mutations in DNMT3A and IDH1/2 (individually and in combinations).METHODS: Infinium MethylationEPIC BeadChip (Illumina) covering 850,000 CpGs was utilized. The validation of hydroxy-/methylation data was done by pyrosequencing. HumanHT-12 v4 Expression BeadChip (Illumina) was used for expression examination.RESULTS: Hierarchical clustering analysis of DNA hydroxy-/methylation data revealed clusters corresponding to DNMT3A and IDH1/2 mutations and CD34+ healthy controls. Samples with concurrent presence of DNMT3A and IDH1/2 mutations displayed mixed DNA hydroxy-/methylation profile with preferential clustering to healthy controls. Numbers and levels of DNA hydroxymethylation were low. Uniformly hypermethylated loci in AML patients with IDH1/2 mutations were enriched for immune response and apoptosis related genes, among which hypermethylation of granzyme B (GZMB) was found to be associated with inferior overall survival of AML patients (P= 0.035).CONCLUSIONS: Distinct molecular background results in specific DNA hydroxy-/methylation profiles in AML. Site-specific DNA hydroxymethylation changes are much less frequent in AML pathogenesis compared to DNA methylation. Methylation levels of enhancer located upstream GZMB gene might contribute to AML prognostication models.
BACKGROUND: A major challenge in the development of effective cancer immunotherapy is the ability of tumors and their microenvironment to suppress immune cells through immunosuppressive cells such as myeloid -derived suppressor cells and regulatory T cells. We previously demonstrated that Plasmodium infection promotes innate and adaptive immunity against cancer in a murine Lewis lung cancer model but its effects on immunosuppressive cells in the tumor microenvironment are unknown.METHODS: Whole Tumors and tumor-derived sorted cells from tumor-bearing mice treated with or without plasmodium infected red blood cells were harvested 17 days post tumor implantation and analyzed using QPCR, western blotting, flow cytometry, and functional assays. Differences between groups were analyzed for statistical significance using Student's t-test.RESULTS: Here we found that Plasmodium infection significantly reduced the proportions of MDSCs and Tregs in the lung tumor tissues of the treated mice by downregulating their recruiting molecules and blocking cellular activation pathways. Importantly, CD8+ T cells isolated from the tumors of Plasmodium-treated mice exhibited significantly higher levels of granzyme B and perforin and remarkably lower levels of PD-1.CONCLUSION: We reveal for the first time, the effects of Plasmodium infection on the expansion and activation of MDSCs and Tregs with a consequent elevation of CD8+T cell-mediated cytotoxicity within the tumor microenvironment and hold great promise for the development of effective immunotherapeutic strategies.
DNA topoisomerases play essential roles in chromosome organization and replication. Most bacteria possess multiple topoisomerases which have specialized functions in the control of DNA supercoiling or in DNA catenation/decatenation during recombination and chromosome segregation. DNA topoisomerase I is required for the relaxation of negatively supercoiled DNA behind the transcribing RNA polymerase. Conflicting results have been reported on the essentiality of the topA gene encoding topoisomerase I in the model bacterium Bacillus subtilis. In this work, we have studied the requirement for topoisomerase I in B. subtilis. All stable topA mutants carried different chromosomal amplifications of the genomic region encompassing the parEC operon encoding topoisomerase IV. Using a fluorescent amplification reporter system we observed that each individual topA mutant had acquired such an amplification. Eventually, the amplifications were replaced by a point mutation in the parEC promoter region which resulted in a fivefold increase of parEC expression. In this strain both type I topoisomerases, encoded by topA and topB, were dispensable. Our results demonstrate that topoisomerase IV at increased expression is necessary and sufficient to take over the function of type 1A topoisomerases.
As one of the most prevalent malignancies, breast cancer still remains a significant risk for public health. Common therapeutic strategies include invasive surgery, chemotherapy and anti-herceptin antibodies. Adverse effects, drug resistance and low efficacy of current therapies necessitates the emergence of more effective platforms. Naturally released by the immune system, granzyme B activates multiple pro-apoptotic pathways by cleaving critical substrates. Bacterial cupredoxin, azurin, selectively targets cancer cells via a p53-dependent pathway. Fused by a linker, GrB-Azurin fusion protein was overexpressed in HEK293T cells, and purified by metal chromatography. SDS-PAGE, Western blotting and ELISA were performed to confirm successful expression, purification and analyze binding properties of the fusion protein. After treatment of various breast cancer cell lines with increasing concentrations of GrB-Azurin, quantitative real-time RT-PCR was used to measure relative expression of p21, Fas and DR5 pro-apoptotic genes. The results of DNA fragmentation and WST-1 cell viability assays indicated significant apoptosis induction in MDA-MB-231, MCF7 and SK-BR-3 cells, while insignificant cytotoxicity was detected on MCF 10A normal breast cells. Herein, we report the development of a novel biotherapeutic against breast cancer. Selective effectiveness of GrB-Azurin fusion protein on different breast cancer cells highlighted the potential of the designed construct as a candidate anti-cancer biodrug.
Comment in    Sci Immunol. 2019 Jul 5;4(37):
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are secreted membrane vesicles, which play complex physiological and pathological functions in intercellular communication. Recently, we isolated natural killer (NK) cell-derived EVs (NK-EVs) from ex vivo expansion of NK cell cultures. The isolated NK-EVs contained cytotoxic proteins and several activated caspases, and they induced apoptosis in target cells. In this report, the protein levels of cytotoxic proteins from NK-EV isolates were analysed by ELISA. The mean values of perforin (PFN, 550 ng/mL), granzyme A (GzmA, 185 ng/mL), granzyme B (GzmB, 23.4 ng/mL), granulysin (GNLY, 56 ng/mL), and FasL (2.5 ng/mL) were obtained from >60 isolations using dot plots. The correlation between cytotoxicity and cytotoxic protein levels was examined by linear regression. PFN, GzmA, GzmB, GNLY all had a positive, moderate correlation with cytotoxicity, suggesting that there is not a single cytotoxic protein dominantly involved in killing and that all of these proteins may contribute to cytotoxicity. To further explore the possible killing mechanisms, cells were treated with NK-EVs, proteins extracted and lysates assessed by Western blotting. The levels of Gzm A substrates, SET and HMG2, were diminished in targeted cells, indicating that GzmA may induce a caspase-independent death pathway. Also, cytochrome C was released from mitochondria, a central hallmark of caspase-dependent death pathways. In addition, several ER-associated proteins were altered, suggesting that NK-EVs may induce ER stress resulting in cell death. Our results indicate that multiple killing mechanisms are activated by NK-derived EVs, including caspase-independent and -dependent cell death pathways, which can mediate cytotoxicity against cancer cells. Abbreviations: NK: natural killer cells; aNK: activated NK cells; EV: extracellular vesicles; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ALL: acute lymphoblastic leukaemia; FBS: foetal bovine serum. GzmA: granzyme A; GzmB: granzyme B; GNLY: granulysin; PFN: perforin.
Translation termination requires eRF1 and eRF3 for polypeptide- and tRNA-release on stop codons. Additionally, Dbp5/DDX19 and Rli1/ABCE1 are required; however, their function in this process is currently unknown. Using a combination of in vivo and in vitro experiments, we show that they regulate a stepwise assembly of the termination complex. Rli1 and eRF3-GDP associate with the ribosome first. Subsequently, Dbp5-ATP delivers eRF1 to the stop codon and in this way prevents a premature access of eRF3. Dbp5 dissociates upon placing eRF1 through ATP-hydrolysis. This in turn enables eRF1 to contact eRF3, as the binding of Dbp5 and eRF3 to eRF1 is mutually exclusive. Defects in the Dbp5-guided eRF1 delivery lead to premature contact and premature dissociation of eRF1 and eRF3 from the ribosome and to subsequent stop codon readthrough. Thus, the stepwise Dbp5-controlled termination complex assembly is essential for regular translation termination events. Our data furthermore suggest a possible role of Dbp5/DDX19 in alternative translation termination events, such as during stress response or in developmental processes, which classifies the helicase as a potential drug target for nonsense suppression therapy to treat cancer and neurodegenerative diseases.
Cell-to-cell adhesion is essential for establishment of multicellularity. In plants, such adhesion is mediated through a middle lamella composed primarily of pectic polysaccharides. The molecular interactions that influence cell-to-cell adhesion are not fully understood. We have used Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seed coat mucilage as a model system to investigate interactions between cell wall carbohydrates. Using a forward-genetic approach, we have discovered a gene, RUBY PARTICLES IN MUCILAGE (RUBY), encoding a protein that is annotated as a member of the Auxiliary Activity 5 (AA5) family of Carbohydrate-Active Enzymes (Gal/glyoxal oxidases) and is secreted to the apoplast late in the differentiation of seed coat epidermal cells. We show that RUBY is required for the Gal oxidase activity of intact seeds; the oxidation of Gal in side-chains of rhamnogalacturonan-I (RG-I) present in mucilage-modified2 (mum2) mucilage, but not in wild-type mucilage; the retention of branched RG-I in the seed following extrusion; and the enhancement of cell-to-cell adhesion in the seed coat epidermis. These data support the hypothesis that RUBY is a Gal oxidase that strengthens pectin cohesion within the middle lamella, and possibly the mucilage of wild-type seed coat epidermal cells, through oxidation of RG-I Gal side-chains.
DEAH-box adenosine triphosphatases (ATPases) play a crucial role in the spliceosome-mediated excision of pre-mRNA introns. Recent spliceosomal cryo-EM structures suggest that these proteins utilize translocation to apply forces on ssRNAs rather than direct RNA duplex unwinding to ensure global rearrangements. By solving the crystal structure of Prp22 in different adenosine nucleotide-free states, we identified two missing conformational snapshots of genuine DEAH-box ATPases that help to unravel the molecular mechanism of translocation for this protein family. The intrinsic mobility of the RecA2 domain in the absence of adenosine di- or triphosphate (ADP/ATP) and RNA enables DEAH-box ATPases to adopt different open conformations of the helicase core. The presence of RNA suppresses this mobility and stabilizes one defined open conformation when no adenosine nucleotide is bound. A comparison of this novel conformation with the ATP-bound state of Prp43 reveals that these ATPases cycle between closed and open conformations of the helicase core, which accommodate either a four- or five-nucleotide stack in the RNA-binding tunnel, respectively. The continuous repetition of these states enables these proteins to translocate in 3'-5' direction along an ssRNA with a step-size of one RNA nucleotide per hydrolyzed ATP. This ATP-driven motor function is maintained by a serine in the conserved motif V that senses the catalytic state and accordingly positions the RecA2 domain.
Mitochondria have originated in eukaryotic cells by endosymbiosis of a specialized prokaryote approximately 2 billion years ago. They are essential for normal cell function by providing energy through their role in oxidizing carbon substrates. Glutathione (GSH) is a major thiol-disulfide redox buffer of the cell including the mitochondrial matrix and intermembrane space. We have generated cardiomyocyte-specific Grx1-roGFP2 GSH redox potential (EGSH) biosensor mice in the past, in which the sensor is targeted to the mitochondrial matrix. Using this mouse model a distinct EGSH of the mitochondrial matrix (-278.9 ± 0.4 mV) in isolated cardiomyocytes is observed. When analyzing the EGSH in isolated mitochondria from the transgenic hearts, however, the EGSH in the mitochondrial matrix is significantly oxidized (-247.7 ± 8.7 mV). This is prevented by adding N-Ethylmaleimide during the mitochondria isolation procedure, which precludes disulfide bond formation. A similar reducing effect is observed by isolating mitochondria in hypoxic (0.1-3% O2) conditions that mimics mitochondrial pO2 levels in cellulo. The reduced EGSH is accompanied by lower ROS production, reduced complex III activity but increased ATP levels produced at baseline and after stimulation with succinate/ADP. Altogether, we demonstrate that oxygenation is an essential factor that needs to be considered when analyzing mitochondrial function ex vivo.
Lenvatinib is a multiple receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting mainly vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptors. We investigated the immunomodulatory activities of lenvatinib in the tumor microenvironment and its mechanisms of enhanced antitumor activity when combined with a programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) blockade. Antitumor activity was examined in immunodeficient and immunocompetent mouse tumor models. Single-cell analysis, flow cytometric analysis, and immunohistochemistry were used to analyze immune cell populations and their activation. Gene co-expression network analysis and pathway analysis using RNA sequencing data were used to identify lenvatinib-driven combined activity with anti-PD-1 antibody (anti-PD-1). Lenvatinib showed potent antitumor activity in the immunocompetent tumor microenvironment compared with the immunodeficient tumor microenvironment. Antitumor activity of lenvatinib plus anti-PD-1 was greater than that of either single treatment. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that lenvatinib reduced tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and increased the percentage of activated CD8+ T cells secreting interferon (IFN)-γ+ and granzyme B (GzmB). Combination treatment further increased the percentage of T cells, especially CD8+ T cells, among CD45+ cells and increased IFN-γ+ and GzmB+ CD8+ T cells. Transcriptome analyses of tumors resected from treated mice showed that genes specifically regulated by the combination were significantly enriched for type-I IFN signaling. Pretreatment with lenvatinib followed by anti-PD-1 treatment induced significant antitumor activity compared with anti-PD-1 treatment alone. Our findings show that lenvatinib modulates cancer immunity in the tumor microenvironment by reducing TAMs and, when combined with PD-1 blockade, shows enhanced antitumor activity via the IFN signaling pathway. These findings provide a scientific rationale for combination therapy of lenvatinib with PD-1 blockade to improve cancer immunotherapy.
The adverse clinical result and poor treatment outcome in recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) make it necessary to understand the pathogenic mechanism. The mating combination CBA/J × DBA/2 has been widely used as an abortion-prone model compared to DBA/2-mated CBA/J mice. Here, we used RNA-seq to get a comprehensive catalogue of genes differentially expressed between survival placenta in abortion-prone model and control. Five hundred twenty-four differentially expressed genes were obtained followed by clustering analysis, Gene Ontology analysis, and pathway analysis. We paid more attention to immune-related genes namely "immune response" and "immune system process" including 33 downregulated genes and 28 upregulated genes. Twenty-one genes contribute to suppressing immune system and 7 are against it. Six genes were validated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, namely Ccr1l1, Tlr4, Tgf-β1, Tyro3, Gzmb, and Il-1β. Furthermore, Tlr4, Tgf-β1, and Il-1β were analyzed by Western blot. Such immune profile gives us a better understanding of the complicated immune processing in RSA and immunosuppression can rescue pregnancy loss.
Numerous proteins require a metallic co-factor for their function. In plastids, the maturation of iron-sulfur (Fe-S) proteins necessitates a complex assembly machinery. In this study, we focused on Arabidopsis thaliana NFU1, NFU2, and NFU3, which participate in the final steps of the maturation process. According to the strong photosynthetic defects observed in high chlorophyll fluorescence 101 (hcf101), nfu2, and nfu3 plants, we determined that NFU2 and NFU3, but not NFU1, act immediately upstream of HCF101 for the maturation of [Fe4S4]-containing photosystem I subunits. An additional function of NFU2 in the maturation of the [Fe2S2] cluster of a dihydroxyacid dehydratase was obvious from the accumulation of precursors of the branched-chain amino acid synthesis pathway in roots of nfu2 plants and from the rescue of the primary root growth defect by supplying branched-chain amino acids. The absence of NFU3 in roots precluded any compensation. Overall, unlike their eukaryotic and prokaryotic counterparts, which are specific to [Fe4S4] proteins, NFU2 and NFU3 contribute to the maturation of both [Fe2S2] and [Fe4S4] proteins, either as a relay in conjunction with other proteins such as HCF101 or by directly delivering Fe-S clusters to client proteins. Considering the low number of Fe-S cluster transfer proteins relative to final acceptors, additional targets probably await identification.
Carbon ion radiotherapy has been utilized even for X-ray resistant tumors. However, control of distant metastasis remains a major challenge in carbon ion irradiation. We investigated whether carbon ion irradiation combined with dual immune checkpoint blockade therapy (anti-PD-L1 and anti-CTLA-4 antibodies [P1C4]) provides anti-tumor efficacy for both local and distant sites. A mouse osteosarcoma cell line (LM8) was inoculated into both hind legs of C3H mice assigned to four groups: no treatment (NoTX), P1C4, 5.3 Gy of carbon ion irradiation to one leg (Cion), and combination (Comb) groups. In the Comb group, tumor growth delay was observed not only in the irradiated tumors but also in the unirradiated tumors. Notably, a complete response of unirradiated tumors was observed in 64% of mice in the Comb group, while only 20% of mice in the P1C4 group showed a complete response. Significant activation of immune cells was observed in the Comb group, with an increase in CD8+/GzmB+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the irradiated tumor, and of CD8+/GzmB+ and CD4+ TILs in the unirradiated tumor, respectively. Depletion of CD8 abolished the tumor growth delay in unirradiated tumors in mice treated by Cion and P1C4. Overall survival was significantly prolonged in the Comb group. HMGB-1 release from irradiated tumors was significantly increased after Cion both in vitro and in vivo. These data suggest that carbon ion therapy enhances P1C4 efficacy against osteosarcoma in both the primary tumor and distant metastases mediated by immune activation.
Bacteria are often found in close association with surfaces, resulting in the formation of biofilms. In Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), biofilms are implicated in the resilience of chronic infections, presenting a serious clinical problem world-wide. Here, S. aureus biofilms are grown under flow within clinical catheters at 37 °C. The lipid composition and biophysical properties of lipid extracts from these biofilms are compared with those from exponential growth and stationary phase cells. Biofilms show a reduction in iso and anteiso branching compensated by an increase in saturated fatty acids compared to stationary phase. A drastic reduction in carotenoid levels is also observed during biofilm formation. Thermotropic measurements of Laurdan GP and DPH polarization, show a reduction of lipid packing at 37 °C for biofilms compared to stationary phase. We studied the effects of carotenoid content on DMPG and DPPG model membranes showing trends in thermotropic behavior consistent with those observed in bacterial isolates, indicating that carotenoids participate in modulating lipid packing. Additionally, bending elastic constant (kc) measurements using vesicle fluctuation analysis (VFA) show that the presence of carotenoids can increase membrane bending rigidity. The antimicrobial peptide Magainin H2 was less activity on liposomes composed of stationary phase compared to biofilms or exponential growth isolates. This study contributes to an understanding of how Staphylococcus aureus modulates the composition of its membrane lipids, and how those changes affect the biophysical properties of membranes, which in turn may play a role in its virulence and its resistance to different membrane-active antimicrobial agents.
INTRODUCTION: Whether the efficacy of programmed death 1 (PD-1)/programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors declines with senescence remains controversial for lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Responsiveness to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy is thought to rely on neoantigen exposure and immune elements in the tumor microenvironment. In this study, we explored the features of the tumor immune microenvironment in elderly patients with treatment-naïve LUAD.METHODS: Transcriptome profiles and clinical characteristics of patients with LUAD were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas as a discovery cohort. Immune cell infiltration (quantified by a single-sample gene set enrichment analysis), immunoregulatory molecule expression, and mutational patterns (from The Cancer Immunome Atlas) were compared between young and elderly patients. Immune cell infiltration was verified by immunohistochemistry using a validation cohort including 105 treatment-naïve patients with LUAD. A tissue microarray consisting of 120 LUAD patients was used in the immunohistochemistry validation.RESULTS: Activated CD8+ T cell numbers increased slightly with age, but cytolytic molecules in T cells (granzyme B [GZMB], perforin 1 [PRF1], granzyme A [GZMA], granzyme M [GZMM], and granulysin [GNLY]) gradually declined. PD-L1 expression was not associated with age; however, a number of immunosuppressive elements beyond PD-L1 were upregulated in aging patients, including regulatory T cells and co-inhibitory molecules, for example, TIM-3, TIGIT, and HHLA2. Finally, senescence was accompanied by a loss of clonal neoantigens, which is believed to be correlated with responsiveness to immune checkpoint inhibitors.CONCLUSIONS: Elderly patients were characterized by increased numbers of CD8+ T cells and impaired cytolytic molecule expression. The observed immune signature was also associated with a loss of clonal neoantigens and the accumulation of immunosuppressive elements. These findings show a unique immune microenvironment in senescence and support biomarker-guided candidate identification for anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapeutic strategies for elderly patients with LUAD.
Understanding the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) promises to be key for optimal cancer therapy, especially in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Integrating spatial resolution of immune cells with laser capture microdissection gene expression profiles, we defined distinct TIME stratification in TNBC, with implications for current therapies including immune checkpoint blockade. TNBCs with an immunoreactive microenvironment exhibited tumoral infiltration of granzyme B+CD8+ T cells (GzmB+CD8+ T cells), a type 1 IFN signature, and elevated expression of multiple immune inhibitory molecules including indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) and programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), and resulted in good outcomes. An "immune-cold" microenvironment with an absence of tumoral CD8+ T cells was defined by elevated expression of the immunosuppressive marker B7-H4, signatures of fibrotic stroma, and poor outcomes. A distinct poor-outcome immunomodulatory microenvironment, hitherto poorly characterized, exhibited stromal restriction of CD8+ T cells, stromal expression of PD-L1, and enrichment for signatures of cholesterol biosynthesis. Metasignatures defining these TIME subtypes allowed us to stratify TNBCs, predict outcomes, and identify potential therapeutic targets for TNBC.
Comment in    J Bacteriol. 2019 Apr 24;201(10):
In a large-scale RNAi screen in Tribolium castaneum for genes with knock-down phenotypes in the larval somatic musculature, one recurring phenotype was the appearance of larval muscle fibers that were significantly thinner than those in control animals. Several of the genes producing this knock-down phenotype corresponded to orthologs of Drosophila genes that are known to participate in myoblast fusion, particularly via their effects on actin polymerization. A new gene previously not implicated in myoblast fusion but displaying a similar thin-muscle knock-down phenotype was the Tribolium ortholog of Nostrin, which encodes an F-BAR and SH3 domain protein. Our genetic studies of Nostrin and Cip4, a gene encoding a structurally related protein, in Drosophila show that the encoded F-BAR proteins jointly contribute to efficient myoblast fusion during larval muscle development. Together with the F-Bar protein Syndapin they are also required for normal embryonic midgut morphogenesis. In addition, Cip4 is required together with Nostrin during the profound remodeling of the midgut visceral musculature during metamorphosis. We propose that these F-Bar proteins help govern proper morphogenesis particularly of the longitudinal midgut muscles during metamorphosis.
Although muscle development has been widely studied in Drosophila melanogaster there are still many gaps in our knowledge, and it is not known to which extent this knowledge can be transferred to other insects. To help in closing these gaps we participated in a large-scale RNAi screen that used the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum, as a screening platform. The effects of systemic RNAi were screened upon double-stranded RNA injections into appropriate muscle-EGFP tester strains. Injections into pupae were followed by the analysis of the late embryonic/early larval muscle patterns, and injections into larvae by the analysis of the adult thoracic muscle patterns. Herein we describe the results of the first-pass screens with pupal and larval injections, which covered ∼8,500 and ∼5,000 genes, respectively, of a total of ∼16,500 genes of the Tribolium genome. Apart from many genes known from Drosophila as regulators of muscle development, a collection of genes previously unconnected to muscle development yielded phenotypes in larval body wall and leg muscles as well as in indirect flight muscles. We then present the main candidates from the pupal injection screen that remained after being processed through a series of verification and selection steps. Further, we discuss why distinct though overlapping sets of genes are revealed by the Drosophila and Tribolium screening approaches.
Successful long-term kidney allograft survival with parallel reduction of complications resulting from prolonged immunosuppressive treatment is a goal in kidney transplantation. We studied the immune changes in cell phenotypes and gene expression induced by kidney transplantation. Our goal was to find a phenotypic and/or transcriptional pattern that might be considered prognostic for the kidney transplant outcome. The analysis was performed prospectively on 36 KTx recipients sampled during the first year and followed for five years after transplantation and on 40 long-term KTx recipients (7.9 ± 2.2 y. post-KTx). The research involved flow cytometry assessment of lymphocyte subpopulations (including Tregs and CD3+CD8+CD28- lymphocytes) and gene expression analysis of immune-related genes (CD4, CD8, CTLA4, GZMB, FOXP3, IL10, IL4, ILR2A, NOTCH, PDCD1, PRF1, TGFB, and TNFA). The analysis of patterns observed over the first post-KTx year was confronted with control, pretransplant, and long-term transplant results. Treg counts at months one and three post-KTx correlated positively with the current and future allograft function. FOXP3 gene expression at month one post-KTx was also associated with long-term allograft function. The KTx-induced CD3+CD8+CD28- population correlated with GZMB and PRF1 expression and suggested their cytotoxic properties. The size of the Treg population and regulatory FOXP3 gene expression in the early period after transplantation are associated with kidney transplant outcome. The outlined predictive power of the Treg population needs to be investigated further to be confirmed as one of the immune monitoring strategies that may help achieve the best long-term kidney allograft outcomes.
Comment in    Gastroenterology. 2019 May;156(6):1563-1565.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the relationship between meteorological factors and scarlet fever incidence from 2006 to 2017 in Guangzhou, the largest subtropical city of Southern China, and assist public health prevention and control measures.METHODS: Data for weekly scarlet fever incidence and meteorological variables from 2006 to 2017 in Guangzhou were collected from the National Notifiable Disease Report System (NNDRS) and the Guangzhou Meteorological Bureau (GZMB). Distributed lag nonlinear models (DLNMs) were conducted to estimate the effect of meteorological factors on weekly scarlet fever incidence in Guangzhou.RESULTS: We observed nonlinear effects of temperature, relative humidity, and wind velocity. The risk was the highest when the weekly mean temperature was 31 °C during lag week 14, yielding a relative risk (RR) of 1.48 (95% CI: 1.01-2.17). When relative humidity was 43.5% during lag week 0, the RR was 1.49 (95% CI: 1.04-2.12); the highest RR (1.55, 95% CI: 1.20-1.99) was reached when relative humidity was 93.5% during lag week 20. When wind velocity was 4.4 m/s during lag week 13, the RR was highest at 3.41 (95% CI: 1.57-7.44). Positive correlations were observed among weekly temperature ranges and atmospheric pressure with scarlet fever incidence, while a negative correlation was detected with aggregate rainfall. The cumulative extreme effect of meteorological variables on scarlet fever incidence was statistically significant, except for the high effect of wind velocity.CONCLUSION: Weekly mean temperature, relative humidity, and wind velocity had double-trough effects on scarlet fever incidence; high weekly temperature range, high atmospheric pressure, and low aggregate rainfall were risk factors for scarlet fever morbidity. Our findings provided preliminary, but fundamental, information that may be useful for a better understanding of epidemic trends of scarlet fever and for developing an early warning system. Laboratory surveillance for scarlet fever should be strengthened in the future.
The moss Physcomitrella patens receives increased scientific interest since its genome was sequenced a decade ago. As a bryophyte, it represents the first group of plants that evolved in a terrestrial habitat still without a vascular system that developed later in tracheophytes. It is easily transformable via homologous recombination, which enables the formation of targeted loss-of-function mutants. Even though genetics, development and life cycle in Physcomitrella are well studied nowadays, research on lipids in Physcomitrella is still underdeveloped. This review aims on presenting an overview on the state of the art of lipid research with a focus on membrane lipids, surface lipids and oxylipins. We discuss in this review that Physcomitrella possesses very interesting features regarding its membrane lipids. Here, the presence of very-long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (VLC-PUFA) still shows a closer similarity to marine microalgae than to vascular plants. Unlike algae, Physcomitrella has a cuticle comparable to vascular plants composed of cutin and waxes. The presence of VLC-PUFA in Physcomitrella also leads to a greater variability of signaling lipids even though the phytohormone jasmonic acid is not present in this organism, which is different to vascular plants. In summary, the research on lipids in Physcomitrella is still in its infancy, especially considering membrane lipids. We hope that this review will help to promote the further advancement of lipid research in this important model organism in the future, so we can better understand how lipids are involved in the evolution of land plants.
The soil bacterium Bacillus subtilis can get into contact with growth-inhibiting substances, which may be of anthropogenic origin. Glyphosate is such a substance serving as a nonselective herbicide. Glyphosate specifically inhibits the 5-enolpyruvyl-shikimate-3-phosphate (EPSP) synthase, which generates an essential precursor for de novo synthesis of aromatic amino acids in plants, fungi, bacteria and archaea. Inhibition of the EPSP synthase by glyphosate results in depletion of the cellular levels of aromatic amino acids unless the environment provides them. Here, we have assessed the potential of B. subtilis to adapt to glyphosate at the genome level. In contrast to Escherichia coli, which evolves glyphosate resistance by elevating the production and decreasing the glyphosate sensitivity of the EPSP synthase, B. subtilis primarily inactivates the gltT gene encoding the high-affinity glutamate/aspartate symporter GltT. Further adaptation of the gltT mutants to glyphosate led to the inactivation of the gltP gene encoding the glutamate transporter GltP. Metabolome analyses confirmed that GltT is the major entryway of glyphosate into B. subtilis. GltP, the GltT homologue of E. coli also transports glyphosate into B. subtilis. Finally, we found that GltT is involved in uptake of the herbicide glufosinate, which inhibits the glutamine synthetase.
BACKGROUND: Belatacept-based therapy in kidney transplant recipient has been shown to increase long-term renal allograft and patient survival compared with calcineurin inhibitor-based therapy, however, with an increased risk of acute T cell-mediated rejection (aTCMR). An improved understanding of costimulation blockade-resistant rejections could lead to a more personalized approach to belatacept therapy. Here, immunomic profiles of aTCMR biopsies of patients treated with either tacrolimus or belatacept were compared.METHODS: Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded renal transplant biopsies were used for immunohistochemistry and gene expression analysis using the innovative NanoString technique. To validate NanoString, transcriptomic profiles of patients with and without biopsy-proven aTCMR were compared. Biopsies from 31 patients were studied: 14 tacrolimus-treated patients with aTCMR, 11 belatacept-treated patients with aTCMR, and 6 controls without rejection.RESULTS: A distinct pattern was seen in biopsies with aTCMR compared to negative controls: 78 genes had a higher expression in the aTCMR group (false discovery rate P value <.05 to 1.42e-05). The most significant were T cell-associated genes (CD3, CD8, and CD4; P < 1.98e-04), γ-interferon-inducible genes (CCL5, CXCL9, CXCL11, CXCL10, TBX21; P < 1.33e-04) plus effector genes (GNLY, GZMB, ITGAX; P < 2.82e-03). Immunophenotypical analysis of the classic immune markers of the innate and adaptive immune system was comparable between patients treated with either tacrolimus or belatacept. In addition, the transcriptome of both groups was not significantly different.CONCLUSIONS: In this small pilot study, no difference was found in immunomics of aTCMR biopsies of tacrolimus- and belatacept-treated patients. This suggests that clinically diagnosed aTCMR reflects a final common pathway of allorecognition which is unaffected by the type of immunosuppressive therapy.
LRRC59 (leucine-rich repeat-containing protein 59) is a tail-anchored protein with a single transmembrane domain close to its C-terminal end that localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the nuclear envelope. Here, we investigate the mechanisms of membrane integration of LRRC59 and its targeting to the inner nuclear membrane (INM). Using purified microsomes, we show that LRRC59 can be post-translationally inserted into ER-derived membranes. The TRC-pathway, a major route for post-translational membrane insertion, is not required for LRRC59. Like emerin, another tail-anchored protein, LRRC59 reaches the INM, as demonstrated by rapamycin-dependent dimerization assays. Using different approaches to inhibit importin α/β-dependent nuclear import of soluble proteins, we show that the classic nuclear transport machinery does not play a major role in INM-targeting of LRRC59. Instead, the size of the cytoplasmic domain of LRRC59 is an important feature, suggesting that targeting is governed by passive diffusion.
Introducing novel biomarkers for accurately detecting and differentiating rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) using clinical samples is essential. In the current study, we searched for a novel data-driven gene signature of synovial tissues to differentiate RA from OA patients. Fifty-three RA, 41 OA, and 25 normal microarray-based transcriptome samples were utilized. The area under the curve random forests (RF) variable importance measurement was applied to seek the most influential differential genes between RA and OA. Five algorithms including RF, k-nearest neighbors (kNN), support vector machines (SVM), naïve-Bayes, and a tree-based method were employed for the classification. We found a 16-gene signature that could effectively differentiate RA from OA, including TMOD1, POP7, SGCA, KLRD1, ALOX5, RAB22A, ANK3, PTPN3, GZMK, CLU, GZMB, FBXL7, TNFRSF4, IL32, MXRA7, and CD8A. The externally validated accuracy of the RF model was 0.96 (sensitivity = 1.00, specificity = 0.90). Likewise, the accuracy of kNN, SVM, naïve-Bayes, and decision tree was 0.96, 0.96, 0.96, and 0.91, respectively. Functional meta-analysis exhibited the differential pathological processes of RA and OA; suggested promising targets for further mechanistic and therapeutic studies. In conclusion, the proposed genetic signature combined with sophisticated classification methods may improve the diagnosis and management of RA patients.
PURPOSE: Because durable response to programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibition is limited to a subset of melanoma patients, new predictive biomarkers could have clinical utility. We hypothesize that pretreatment tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) profiles could be associated with response.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Pretreatment whole tissue sections from 94 melanoma patients treated with anti-PD-1 therapy were profiled by multiplex immunofluorescence to perform TIL quantification (CD4, CD8, CD20) and assess TIL activation (CD3, GZMB, Ki67). Two independent image analysis technologies were used: inForm (PerkinElmer) to determine cell counts, and AQUA to measure protein by quantitative immunofluorescence (QIF). TIL parameters by both methodologies were correlated with objective response or disease control rate (ORR/DCR) by RECIST 1.1 and survival outcome.RESULTS: Pretreatment lymphocytic infiltration, by cell counts or QIF, was significantly higher in complete or partial response than in stable or progressive disease, particularly for CD8 (P < 0.0001). Neither TIL activation nor dormancy was associated with outcome. CD8 associations with progression-free survival (HR > 3) were independently significant in multivariable analyses and accounted for similar CD3 associations in anti-PD-1-treated patients. CD8 was not associated with melanoma prognosis in the absence of immunotherapy. Predictive performance of CD8 cell count (and QIF) had an area under the ROC curve above 0.75 (ORR/DCR), which reached 0.83 for ipilimumab plus nivolumab.CONCLUSIONS: Pretreatment lymphocytic infiltration is associated with anti-PD-1 response in metastatic melanoma. Quantitative TIL analysis has potential for application in digital precision immuno-oncology as an "indicative" companion diagnostic.
BACKGROUND: Disruptor of telomeric silencing 1-like (DOT1L) is a non-SET domain containing methyltransferase known to catalyze mono-, di-, and tri-methylation of histone 3 on lysine 79 (H3K79me). DOT1L-mediated H3K79me has been implicated in chromatin-associated functions including gene transcription, heterochromatin formation, and DNA repair. Recent studies have uncovered a role for DOT1L in the initiation and progression of leukemia and other solid tumors. The development and availability of small molecule inhibitors of DOT1L may provide new and unique therapeutic options for certain types or subgroups of cancer.METHODS: In this study, we examined the role of DOT1L in DNA double-strand break (DSB) response and repair by depleting DOT1L using siRNA or inhibiting its methyltransferase activity using small molecule inhibitors in colorectal cancer cells. Cells were treated with different agents to induce DNA damage in DOT1L-depleted or -inhibited cells and analyzed for DNA repair efficiency and survival. Further, rectal cancer patient samples were analyzed for H3K79me3 levels in order to determine whether it may serve as a potential marker for personalized therapy.RESULTS: Our results indicate that DOT1L is required for a proper DNA damage response following DNA double-strand breaks by regulating the phosphorylation of the variant histone H2AX (γH2AX) and repair via homologous recombination (HR). Importantly, we show that small molecule inhibitors of DOT1L combined with chemotherapeutic agents that are used to treat colorectal cancers show additive effects. Furthermore, examination of H3K79me3 levels in rectal cancer patients demonstrates that lower levels correlate with a poorer prognosis.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we conclude that DOT1L plays an important role in an early DNA damage response and repair of DNA double-strand breaks via the HR pathway. Moreover, DOT1L inhibition leads to increased sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents and PARP inhibition, which further highlights its potential clinical utility. Our results further suggest that H3K79me3 can be useful as a predictive and or prognostic marker for rectal cancer patients.
Despite the presence of CTLs in the tumor microenvironment, the majority of immunogenic human colon cancer does not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy, and microsatellite instable (MSI) tumors are not naturally eliminated. The molecular mechanism underlying the inactivity of tumor-infiltrating CTLs is unknown. We report here that CTLs were present in both MSI and microsatellite stable colon tumors. The expression of the H3K9me3-specific histone methyltransferase SUV39H1 was significantly elevated in human colon carcinoma compared with normal colon tissues. Using a mouse colon carcinoma model, we further determined that tumor-infiltrating CTLs in the colon tumor microenvironment have high expression of SUV39H1. To target SUV39H1 in the tumor microenvironment, a virtual chemical library was screened on the basis of the SET (suppressor of variegation 3-9, enhancer of zeste and trithorax) domain structure of the human SUV39H1 protein. Functional enzymatic activity assays identified a small molecule that inhibits SUV39H1 enzymatic activity. On the basis of the structure of this small molecule, we modified it and chemically synthesized a small molecule, termed F5446, which has an EC50 of 0.496 μmol/L for SUV39H1 enzymatic activity. H3K9me3 was enriched in the promoters of GZMB, PRF1, FASLG, and IFNG in quiescent T cells. F5446 inhibited H3K9me3, thereby upregulating expression of these effectors in tumor-infiltrating CTLs and suppressing colon carcinoma growth in a CD8+ CTL-dependent manner in vivo Our data indicate that SUV39H1 represses CTL effector gene expression and, in doing so, confers colon cancer immune escape.
BACKGROUND: FOXP1, a transcriptional regulator of lymphocyte development, is abnormally expressed in some human tumors. This study investigated FOXP1-mediated regulation of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) in untreated primary breast cancer (BC).METHODS: FOXP1 expression was analyzed in tissues from primary untreated breast tumors, BC cell lines and the METABRIC gene expression BC dataset. Cytokine and chemokine expression and lymphocyte migration in response to primary tumor supernatants (SN) was compared between FOXP1hi and FOXP1lo primary BC.FINDING: FOXP1 expression was higher in estrogen receptor positive compared to negative BC. FOXP1hi tumors were significantly associated with lower TIL and fewer tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS) compared to FOXP1lo BC. Silencing FOXP1 in BC cell lines positively impacted cytokine and chemokine expression with the inverse effect associated with overexpression. CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, CXCL13, CX3CL, CCL20, IL2, IL21, GZMB and IFNG expression decreased while IL10 and TGFβ increased in FOXP1hi compared to FOXP1lo primary BC. Lymphocyte migration using primary BC supernatants detected decreased mobility toward FOXP1hi supernatants. FOXP1lo BC expresses higher levels of chemokines driving TIL migration. The METABRIC gene expression dataset analysis show FOXP1 expression is associated with unfavorable BC outcomes.INTERPRETATION: These data identify FOXP1 as an important negative regulator of immune responses in BC via its regulation of cytokine and chemokine expression. FUND: Belgian Fund for Scientific Research (FNRS 3.4513.12F) and Opération Télévie (7.4636.13F and 7.4609.15F), Fonds J.C. Heuson and Fonds Lambeau-Marteaux.
Nucleoporins build the nuclear pore complex (NPC), which, as sole gate for nuclear-cytoplasmic exchange, is of outmost importance for normal cell function. Defects in the process of nucleocytoplasmic transport or in its machinery have been frequently described in human diseases, such as cancer and neurodegenerative disorders, but only in a few cases of developmental disorders. Here we report biallelic mutations in the nucleoporin NUP88 as a novel cause of lethal fetal akinesia deformation sequence (FADS) in two families. FADS comprises a spectrum of clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorders with congenital malformations related to impaired fetal movement. We show that genetic disruption of nup88 in zebrafish results in pleiotropic developmental defects reminiscent of those seen in affected human fetuses, including locomotor defects as well as defects at neuromuscular junctions. Phenotypic alterations become visible at distinct developmental stages, both in affected human fetuses and in zebrafish, whereas early stages of development are apparently normal. The zebrafish phenotypes caused by nup88 deficiency are rescued by expressing wild-type Nup88 but not the disease-linked mutant forms of Nup88. Furthermore, using human and mouse cell lines as well as immunohistochemistry on fetal muscle tissue, we demonstrate that NUP88 depletion affects rapsyn, a key regulator of the muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction. Together, our studies provide the first characterization of NUP88 in vertebrate development, expand our understanding of the molecular events causing FADS, and suggest that variants in NUP88 should be investigated in cases of FADS.
Word-based or 'alignment-free' sequence comparison has become an active research area in bioinformatics. While previous word-frequency approaches calculated rough measures of sequence similarity or dissimilarity, some new alignment-free methods are able to accurately estimate phylogenetic distances between genomic sequences. One of these approaches is Filtered Spaced Word Matches. Here, we extend this approach to estimate evolutionary distances between complete or incomplete proteomes; our implementation of this approach is called Prot-SpaM. We compare the performance of Prot-SpaM to other alignment-free methods on simulated sequences and on various groups of eukaryotic and prokaryotic taxa. Prot-SpaM can be used to calculate high-quality phylogenetic trees for dozens of whole-proteome sequences in a matter of seconds or minutes and often outperforms other alignment-free approaches. The source code of our software is available through Github: https://github.com/jschellh/ProtSpaM.
The molecular mechanisms of nuclear transport have been described in great detail and we are beginning to understand the structures of transport complexes and even of subcomplexes of the nuclear pore at an atomic or near-atomic resolution. The complexity of the clients that use the transport machinery, by contrast, is less well understood, although some transport receptors are reported to have hundreds of different cargoes and others only a few. Here, we review the recent attempts to define the cargo spectrum of individual nuclear transport receptors using bioinformatic, biochemical and cell biological approaches and compare the results obtained by these complementary methods. Remarkably, a large fraction of the soluble proteome can be subject to nucleocytoplasmic transport.
L. (viannia) braziliensis infection causes American Tegumentary Leishmaniasis (ATL), with prolonged time to healing lesions. The potent inflammatory response developed by the host is important to control the parasite burden and infection however an unbalanced immunity may cooperate to the tissue damage observed. The range of mechanisms underlying the pathological responses associated with ATL still needs to be better understood. That includes epigenetic regulation by non-coding MicroRNAs (miRNAs), non-coding sequences around 22 nucleotides that act as post-transcriptional regulators of RNAs encoding proteins. The miRNAs have been associated with diverse parasitic diseases, including leishmaniasis. Here we evaluated miRNAs that targeted genes expressed in cutaneous leishmaniasis lesions (CL) by comparing its expression in both CL and normal skin obtained from the same individual. In addition, we evaluated if the miRNAs expression would be correlated with clinical parameters such as therapeutic failure, healing time as well as lesion size. The miR-361-3p and miR-140-3p were significantly more expressed in CL lesions compared to normal skin samples (p = 0.0001 and p < 0.0001, respectively). In addition, the miR-361-3p was correlated with both, therapeutic failure and healing time of disease (r = 0.6, p = 0.003 and r = 0.5, p = 0.007, respectively). In addition, complementary analysis shown that miR-361-3p is able to identify with good sensitivity (81.2%) and specificity (100%) patients who tend to fail initial treatment with pentavalent antimonial (Sbv). Finally, the survival analysis considering "cure" as the endpoint showed that the higher the expression of miR-361-3p, the longer the healing time of CL. Overall, our data suggest the potential of miR-361-3p as a prognostic biomarker in CL caused by L. braziliensis.
Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ZCL) caused by Leishmania (L.) major infection is characterized by different clinical presentations which depend in part on the host factors. In attempt to investigate the impact of the host's immune response in the outcome of the disease, we conducted a prospective study of 453 individuals living in endemic foci of L. major transmission in Central Tunisia. Several factors were assessed at the baseline including (i) the presence of typical scars of ZCL, (ii) in vivo hypersensitivity reaction to leishmanin, and (iii) the in vitro release of granzyme B (Grz B) by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in response to stimulation with live L. major promastigotes. After one season of parasite's transmission, repeated clinical examinations allowed us to diagnose the new emerging ZCL cases. Heterogeneity was observed in terms of number of lesions developed by each individual as well as their size and spontaneous outcome, which led us to establish the parameter "severity of the disease." The efficacy of the presence of typical ZCL scar, the leishmanin skin test (LST) positive reactivity and the high levels of Grz B (≥2 ng/ml), in the protection against the development of ZCL were 29, 15, and 22%, respectively. However, these factors were more efficient against development of intermediate or severe forms of ZCL. Levels of Grz B >2 ng/ml showed the best efficacy of protection (equals to 72.8%) against development of these forms of ZCL. The association of such parameter with the positivity of the LST exhibited a better efficacy (equals to 83.6%). In conclusion, our results support the involvement of Leishmania-specific cytotoxic cellular immune response in host protection against Leishmania-infection. This factor could be of great interest in monitoring the success of vaccination against human leishmaniasis.
BACKGROUND: Oleaginous microalgae are promising sources of energy-rich triacylglycerols (TAGs) for direct use for food, feed and industrial applications. Lobosphaera incisa is a fresh water unicellular alga, which in response to nutrient stress accumulates a high amount of TAGs with a high proportion of arachidonic acid (ARA). The final committed step of de novo TAG biosynthesis is catalyzed by acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferases (DGATs), which add a fatty acid (FA) to the final sn-3 position of diacylglycerol (DAG).RESULTS: Genome analysis revealed the presence of five putative DGAT isoforms in L. incisa, including one DGAT of type 1, three DGATs of type 2 and a single isoform of a type 3 DGAT. For LiDGAT1, LiDGAT2.1, LiDGAT2.2 and LiDGAT2.3 enzyme activity was confirmed by expressing them in the TAG-deficient yeast strain H1246. Feeding experiments of yeast transformants with fatty acids suggest a broad substrate specificity spectrum for LiDGAT1. A significant TAG production in response to exogenous ARA was found for LiDGAT2.2. Cellular localization of the four type 1 and type 2 DGATs expressed in yeast revealed that they all localize to distinct ER domains. A prominent association of LiDGAT1 with ER domains in close proximity to forming lipid droplets (LDs) was also observed.CONCLUSIONS: The data revealed a distinct molecular, functional and cellular nature of type 1 and type 2 DGATs from L. incisa, with LiDGAT1 being a major contributor to the TAG pool. LiDGATs of type 2 might be in turn involved in the incorporation of unusual fatty acids into TAG and thus regulate the composition of TAG. This report provides a valuable resource for the further research of microalgae DGATs oriented towards production of fresh-water strains with higher oil content of valuable composition, not only for oil industry but also for human and animal nutrition.
There are increasing demands for informative cancer biomarkers, accessible via minimally invasive procedures, both for initial diagnostics and for follow-up of personalized cancer therapy, including immunotherapy. Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy provides ready access to relevant tissue samples; however, the minute amounts of sample require sensitive multiplex molecular analysis to be of clinical biomarker utility. We have applied proximity extension assays (PEA) to analyze 167 proteins in FNA samples from patients with breast cancer (BC; n = 25) and benign lesions (n = 32). We demonstrate that the FNA BC samples could be divided into two main clusters, characterized by differences in expression levels of the estrogen receptor (ER) and the proliferation marker Ki67. This clustering corresponded to some extent to established BC subtypes. Our analysis also revealed several proteins whose expression levels differed between BC and benign lesions (e.g., CA9, GZMB, IL-6, VEGFA, CXCL11, PDL1, and PCD1), as well as several chemokines correlating with ER and Ki67 status (e.g., CCL4, CCL8, CCL20, CXCL8, CXCL9, and CXCL17). Finally, we also identified three signatures that could predict Ki67 status, ER status, and tumor grade, respectively, based on a small subset of proteins, which was dominated by chemokines. To our knowledge, expression profiles of CCL13 in benign lesions and BC have not previously been described but were shown herein to correlate with proliferation (P = 0.00095), suggesting a role in advanced BC. Given the broad functional range of the proteins analyzed, immune-related proteins were overrepresented among the observed alterations. Our pilot study supports the emerging role of chemokines in BC progression. Due to the minimally traumatic sampling and clinically important molecular information for therapeutic decisions, this methodology is promising for future immunoscoring and monitoring of treatment efficacy in BC.
BACKGROUND: Tumor IL17-producing (IL17A+) cells infiltration has different prognostic values among various cancers. The objective of this study was to assess the effect of IL17A+ cells in gastric cancer.PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included two patient cohorts, the Cancer Genome Atlas cohort (TCGA, n = 351) and the Zhongshan Hospital cohort (ZSHC, n = 458). The TCGA and ZSHC were used for mRNA-related and cells infiltration-related analyses, respectively. The roles of IL17A mRNA and IL17A+ cells in overall survival (OS), response to adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT), and immune contexture were evaluated. Another independent cohort was included to identify the correlation between mRNA of IL17A and IL17A+ cells infiltration (the preliminary Zhongshan Hospital cohort, PZSHC, n = 21).RESULTS: The infiltration of IL17A+ cells was positively correlated with the expression of IL17A mRNA (Spearman's ρ = 0.811; P < 0.001). High IL17A mRNA expression and intratumoral IL17A+ cells were correlated with improved OS and remained to be significant after adjusted for confounders. Patients with TNM II/III disease whose tumor present higher intratumoral IL17A+ cells or lower peritumoral IL17A+ cells can benefit more from ACT. Elevated IL17A mRNA expression and increased intratumoral IL17A+ cells infiltration was associated with more antitumor mast cells and nature killer cells infiltration and less pro-tumor M2 macrophages infiltration. High IL17A mRNA expression represented a Th17 cells signature and immune response process and was correlated with increased cytotoxic GZMA, GZMB, IFNG, PRF1, and TNFSF11 expression.CONCLUSIONS: IL17A mRNA expression and intratumoral IL17A+ cells infiltration were correlated with antitumor immune contexture. IL17A+ cells infiltration could be used as an independent prognostic biomarker for OS and predictive biomarker for superior response to ACT, and further prospective validation needs to be conducted.
Tumor-reactive T cell exhaustion prevents the success of immune therapies. Pegilodecakin activates intratumoral CD8+ T cells in mice and induces objective tumor responses in patients. Here we report that pegilodecakin induces hallmarks of CD8+ T cell immunity in cancer patients, including elevation of interferon-γ and GranzymeB, expansion and activation of intratumoral CD8+ T cells, and proliferation and expansion of LAG-3+ PD-1+ CD8+ T cells. On pegilodecakin, newly expanded T cell clones, undetectable at baseline, become 1%-10% of the total T cell repertoire in the blood. Elevation of interleukin-18, expansion of LAG-3+ PD-1+ T cells and novel T cell clones each correlated with objective tumor responses. Combined pegilodecakin with anti-PD-1 increased the expansion of LAG-3+ PD-1+ CD8+ T cells.
Zika virus (ZIKV) constitutes an increasing public health problem. Previous studies have shown that CD8+ T cells play an important role in ZIKV-specific protective immunity. We have previously defined antigenic targets of the ZIKV-specific CD8+ T cell response in humans. In this study, we characterized the quality and phenotypes of these responses by a combined use of flow cytometry and transcriptomic methods, using PBMCs from donors deriving from different geographical locations collected in the convalescent phase of infection. We show that ZIKV-specific CD8+ T cells are characterized by a polyfunctional IFN-γ signature with upregulation of TNF-α, TNF receptors, and related activation markers, such as CD69, as well as a cytotoxic signature characterized by strong upregulation of GZMB and CRTAM. The signature is stable and not influenced by previous dengue virus exposure, geographical location, or time of sample collection postinfection. To our knowledge, this work elucidates the first in-depth characterization of human CD8+ T cells responding to ZIKV infection.
When sucrose was used as the carbon source, the Basidiomycete Coprinopsis cinerea showed poor growth and low laccase activity in pure culture, but greatly enhanced the level of laccase activity (>1800 U/L) during coculture with the Mucoromycete Gongronella sp. w5. As a result, the mechanism of laccase overproduction in coculture was investigated by starting from clarifying the function of sucrose. Results demonstrated that Gongronella sp. w5 in the coculture system hydrolyzed sucrose to glucose and fructose by an intracellular invertase. Fructose rather than glucose was supplied by Gongronella sp. w5  as the readily available carbon source for C. cinerea, and contributed to an alteration of its growth behavior and a basal laccase secretion of 110.6 ± 3.3 U/L. On the other hand, separating Gongronella sp. w5 of C. cinerea by transfer into dialysis tubes yielded the same level of laccase activity as without separation, indicating that enhanced laccase production probably resulted from the metabolites in the fermentation broth. Further investigation showed that the ethyl acetate-extracted metabolites generated by Gongronella sp. w5 induced C. cinerea laccase production. One of the laccase-inducing compounds namely p-hydroxybenzoic acid (HBA) was purified and identified from the extract. When using HBA as the inducer and fructose as the carbon source in monoculture, C. cinerea observed similar high laccase activity to that in coculture, and zymograms revealed the same expression of laccase Lcc9 as the main and Lcc1 and Lcc5 as the minor enzymes. Overall, our experiments verified that Gongronella sp. w5 elevates Coprinopsis cinerea laccase production by carbon source syntrophism and secondary metabolite induction.
In Drosophila, large variations in rearrangement rate have been reported among different lineages and among Muller's elements. Nevertheless, the mechanisms that are involved in the generation of inversions, their increase in frequency, as well as their impact on the genome are not completely understood. This is in part due to the lack of comparative studies on species distantly related to Drosophila melanogaster. Therefore, we sequenced and assembled the genomes of two species of the virilis phylad (Drosophila novamexicana [15010-1031.00] and Drosophila americana [SF12]), which are diverging from D. melanogaster for more than 40 Myr. Based on these data, we identified the precise location of six novel inversion breakpoints. A molecular characterization provided clear evidence that DAIBAM (a miniature inverted-repeat transposable element) was involved in the generation of eight out of the nine inversions identified. In contrast to what has been previously reported for D. melanogaster and close relatives, ectopic recombination is thus the prevalent mechanism of generating inversions in species of the virilis phylad. Using pool-sequencing data for three populations of D. americana, we also show that common polymorphic inversions create a high degree of genetic differentiation between populations for chromosomes X, 4, and 5 over large physical distances. We did not find statistically significant differences in expression levels between D. americana (SF12) and D. novamexicana (15010-1031.00) strains for the three genes surveyed (CG9588, Fig 4, and fab1) flanking three inversion breakpoints.
Invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells exhibit potent antitumor effects upon activation by recognizing a specific glycolipid antigen. We previously performed phase I-II clinical studies to utilize iNKT cells using α-galactosylceramide-pulsed dendritic cells and identified leukotriene B4 12-hydroxydehydrogenase (LTB4DH) as a biomarker highly expressed in T cells derived from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients who showed prolonged survival in respond to the iNKT cell immunotherapy. Because LTB4DH expression correlated with prolonged survival of NSCLC patients, we considered LTB4DH to play a role in iNKT cell immunotherapy. We herein demonstrate that the overexpression of LTB4DH in CD4+ or CD8+ T cells increases interferon-γ production and tumoricidal activity in the presence of prostaglandin E2. Moreover, the expression of granzyme a, granzyme b, and perforin mRNA was increased in LTB4DH-overexpressing cells.
Several clinical immunotherapy trials with cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells have been reported. However, molecular evidence of cell expansion, acquisition of tumor cytotoxicity, and safety of CIK cells is required before putting them to clinical use. Here, we performed dynamic transcriptomic analyses of CIKs generated from primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells exposed to interferon-γ, OKT3, and interleukin-2. CIK mRNAs were extracted and sequenced at days 0, 1, 7, and 14 and subjected to bioinformatics analyses. Using weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA), we identified two major gene modules that mediate immune cell activation and mitosis. We found that activation and cytotoxicity of CIK cells likely rely on cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) and its protein partner LCK proto-oncogene, Src family tyrosine kinase (LCK). A time-course series analysis revealed that CIK cells have relatively low immunogenicity because of decreased expression of some self-antigens. Importantly, we identified several crucial activating receptors and auxiliary adhesion receptors expressed on CIK cells that may function as tumor sensors. Interestingly, cytotoxicity-associated genes, including those encoding PRF1, GZMB, FASL, and several cytokines, were up-regulated in mature CIK cells. Most immune-checkpoint molecules and inflammatory tumor-promoting factors were down-regulated in the CIK cells, suggesting efficacy and safety in future clinical trials. Notably, insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) was highly expressed in CIK cells and may promote cytotoxicity, although it also could facilitate tumorigenesis. The transcriptomic atlas of CIK cells presented here may inform efforts to improve CIK-associated tumor cytotoxicity and safety in clinical trials.
Mitochondria fulfill vital metabolic functions and act as crucial cellular signaling hubs, integrating their metabolic status into the cellular context. Here, we show that defective cardiolipin remodeling, upon loss of the cardiolipin acyl transferase tafazzin, decreases HIF-1α signaling in hypoxia. Tafazzin deficiency does not affect posttranslational HIF-1α regulation but rather HIF-1α gene expression, a dysfunction recapitulated in iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes from Barth syndrome patients with tafazzin deficiency. RNA-seq analyses confirmed drastically altered signaling in tafazzin mutant cells. In hypoxia, tafazzin-deficient cells display reduced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) perturbing NF-κB activation and concomitantly HIF-1α gene expression. Tafazzin-deficient mice hearts display reduced HIF-1α levels and undergo maladaptive hypertrophy with heart failure in response to pressure overload challenge. We conclude that defective mitochondrial cardiolipin remodeling dampens HIF-1α signaling due to a lack of NF-κB activation through reduced mitochondrial ROS production, decreasing HIF-1α transcription.
AIMS: Accumulating evidence demonstrates that cardiomyocyte death contributes to the onset and progression of heart failure (HF) after myocardial injury. Recent studies revealed that immune/inflammatory reactions play important roles in cardiovascular diseases. However, it remains unclear whether immunosurveillance system, which eliminates cytopathic cells, including infected or malignant cancer cells, is involved in cardiomyocyte death, though cardiomyocytes are exposed to pathological stresses during post-infarct remodelling. The aim of this study is to clarify the pathophysiological significance of Natural Killer Group 2 member D (NKG2D)/NKG2D ligand (NKG2DL)-mediated cell death in HF after myocardial infarction (MI).METHODS AND RESULTS: MI was generated by ligating left anterior descending artery in mice. The expression of NKG2D, NKG2DLs, especially Retinoic acid early induced transcript-1ɛ (Rae-1ɛ), perforin and granzyme B was concomitantly up-regulated after MI. Immunohistological analysis revealed that Rae-1 was expressed on the membranes of injured cardiomyocytes in the infarct and border area. The MI-induced increase of Rae-1 expression was suppressed in p53-/- mice and Rae-1 was induced by the overexpression of p53. We identified p53-binding sites in Rae-1ɛ gene promoter, by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, indicating that Rae-1 expression was mediated partially through p53. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that NKG2D-expressing immune cells in the post-infarct myocardium were mainly γδT cells. The co-culture with γδT cells increased the frequency of apoptotic cells in the cultured cardiomyocytes. The blockade of NKG2D/NKG2DL interaction by intraperitoneal injection of anti-Rae-1ɛ antibody after MI reduced the frequency of apoptotic cardiomyocytes, accompanied by suppression of cardiac fibrosis, attenuating cardiac dysfunction. Finally, tamoxifen-inducible cardiomyocyte-specific Rae-1ɛ overexpressing mice exhibited the susceptibility to post-infarct remodelling with increased cardiomyocyte apoptosis and severer cardiac dysfunction.CONCLUSION: The interaction between immune cells and cardiomyocytes via NKG2D/NKG2DL induces cardiomyocyte death, exacerbating cardiac remodelling after MI. The blockade of NKG2D/NKG2DL interaction could be a promising therapeutic strategy against HF.
OBJECTIVE: The bleaching, clearing and handling of tiny specimens with soft tissue and cuticular components for confocal laser scanning microscopy is difficult, because after cuticle bleaching and tissue clearing the specimens are virtually invisible. We have adjusted the design of the specimen container described by Smolla et al. (Arthropod Struct Dev 43:175-81, 2014) to handle tiny specimens.RESULTS: We describe a perforated and anodised aluminium slide that was designed to hold the distal tips of the pedipalp appendages of the spider Parasteatoda tepidariorum during clearing, and that can then be used directly for confocal laser scanning microscopy. We believe that this slide design will be helpful for others who want to visualise specimens between 500 and 800 µm with confocal laser scanning microscopy.
Verticillium dahliae nuclear transcription factors Som1 and Vta3 can rescue adhesion in a FLO8-deficient Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain. Som1 and Vta3 induce the expression of the yeast FLO1 and FLO11 genes encoding adhesins. Som1 and Vta3 are sequentially required for root penetration and colonisation of the plant host by V. dahliae. The SOM1 and VTA3 genes were deleted and their functions in fungus-induced plant pathogenesis were studied using genetic, cell biology, proteomic and plant pathogenicity experiments. Som1 supports fungal adhesion and root penetration and is required earlier than Vta3 in the colonisation of plant root surfaces and tomato plant infection. Som1 controls septa positioning and the size of vacuoles, and subsequently hyphal development including aerial hyphae formation and normal hyphal branching. Som1 and Vta3 control conidiation, microsclerotia formation, and antagonise in oxidative stress responses. The molecular function of Som1 is conserved between the plant pathogen V. dahliae and the opportunistic human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Som1 controls genes for initial steps of plant root penetration, adhesion, oxidative stress response and VTA3 expression to allow subsequent root colonisation. Both Som1 and Vta3 regulate developmental genetic networks required for conidiation, microsclerotia formation and pathogenicity of V. dahliae.
The presequence translocase of the mitochondrial inner membrane (TIM23 complex) facilitates anterograde precursor transport into the matrix and lateral release of precursors with stop-transfer signal into the membrane (sorting). Sorting requires precursor exit from the translocation channel into the lipid phase through the lateral gate of the TIM23 complex. How the two transport modes are regulated and balanced against each other is unknown. Here we show that the import motor J-protein Pam18, which is essential for matrix import, controls lateral protein release into the lipid bilayer. Constitutively translocase-associated Pam18 obstructs lateral precursor transport. Concomitantly, Mgr2, implicated in precursor quality control, is displaced from the translocase. We conclude that during motor-dependent matrix protein transport, the transmembrane segment of Pam18 closes the lateral gate to promote anterograde polypeptide movement. This finding explains why a motor-free form of the translocase facilitates the lateral movement of precursors with a stop-transfer signal.
The green microalga Lobosphaera incisa is an oleaginous eukaryotic alga that is rich in arachidonic acid (20:4). Being rich in this polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA), however, makes it sensitive to oxidation. In plants, lipoxygenases (LOXs) are the major enzymes that oxidise these molecules. Here, we describe, to our best knowledge, the first characterisation of a cDNA encoding a LOX (LiLOX) from a green alga. To obtain first insights into its function, we expressed it in E. coli, purified the recombinant enzyme and analysed its enzyme activity. The protein sequence suggests that LiLOX and plastidic LOXs from bryophytes and flowering plants may share a common ancestor. The fact that LiLOX oxidises all PUFAs tested with a consistent oxidation on the carbon n-6, suggests that PUFAs enter the substrate channel through their methyl group first (tail first). Additionally, LiLOX form the fatty acid hydroperoxide in strict S configuration. LiLOX may represent a good model to study plastid LOX, because it is stable after heterologous expression in E. coli and highly active in vitro. Moreover, as the first characterised LOX from green microalgae, it opens the possibility to study endogenous LOX pathways in these organisms.
Naïve CD4 T cells can be converted to double-negative regulatory T cells (DNT) by mature dendritic cells (mDCs) and IL-2 stimulation, with IL-2 enhancing the proliferation and Perforin expression of DNT. However, the molecules that affect the conversion of DNT are still not clear. Here, we investigated the effects of Ox40 on the conversion and function of DNT in vitro and in vivo without IL-2. We found that OX86 (an Ox40 agonist) increased the conversion rate of DNT but failed to enhance the suppressive function of DNT. Ox40 deficiency profoundly decreased the conversion rate and suppressive function of DNT. This suppression decline was caused by effects of Ox40 on proliferation and apoptosis independent of Perforin, Granzyme B and Fas ligand. Ox40 deficiency influenced the regulatory function of DNT through multiple signals, such as Cxcr3, Cd160 and Cd30, independently of Prf, Gzmb and Fasl. In conclusion, we elucidated that Ox40 promotes the conversion and maintenance of DNT. Ox40 deficiency reduced the regulatory function of DNT both in vitro and in vivo by regulating proliferation, apoptosis, and suppression-related genes.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) are the common joints disorder in the world. Although they have showed the analogous clinical manifestation and overlapping cellular and molecular foundation, the pathogenesis of RA and OA were different. The pathophysiologic mechanisms of arthritis in RA and OA have not been investigated thoroughly. Thus, the aim of study is to identify the potential crucial genes and pathways associated with RA and OA and further analyze the molecular mechanisms implicated in genesis. First, we compared gene expression profiles in synovial tissue between RA and OA from the National Center of Biotechnology Information (NCBI) Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Gene Expression Series (GSE) 1919, GSE55235, and GSE36700 were downloaded from the GEO database, including 20 patients of OA and 21 patients of RA. Diﬀerentially expressed genes (DEGs) including "CXCL13," "CD247," "CCL5," "GZMB," "IGKC," "IL7R," "UBD///GABBR1," "ADAMDEC1," "BTC," "AIM2," "SHANK2," "CCL18," "LAMP3," "CR1," and "IL32." Second, Gene Ontology analyses revealed that DEGs were signiﬁcantly enriched in integral component of extracellular space, extracellular region, and plasma membrane in the molecular function group. Signaling pathway analyses indicated that DEGs had common pathways in chemokine signaling pathway, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and cytosolic DNA-sensing pathway. Third, DEGs showed the complex DEGs protein-protein interaction network with the Coexpression of 83.22%, Shared protein domains of 8.40%, Colocalization of 4.76%, Predicted of 2.87%, and Genetic interactions of 0.75%. In conclusion, the novel DEGs and pathways between RA and OA identified in this study may provide new insight into the underlying molecular mechanisms of RA.
Lactococcus lactis is a promising candidate for the development of mucosal vaccines. More than 20 years of experimental research supports this immunization approach. In addition, 3' 5'- cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) is a bacterial second messenger that plays a key role in the regulation of diverse physiological functions (potassium and cellular wall homeostasis, among others). Moreover, recent studies showed that c-di-AMP has a strong mucosal adjuvant activity that promotes both humoral and cellular immune responses. In this study, we report the development of a novel mucosal vaccine prototype based on a genetically engineered L. lactis strain. First, we demonstrate that homologous expression of cdaA gen in L. lactis is able to increase c-di-AMP levels. Thus, we hypothesized that in vivo synthesis of the adjuvant can be combined with production of an antigen of interest in a separate form or jointly in the same strain. Therefore, a specifically designed fragment of the trans-sialidase (TScf) enzyme from the Trypanosoma cruzi parasite, the etiological agent of Chagas disease, was selected to evaluate as proof of concept the immune response triggered by our vaccine prototypes. Consequently, we found that oral administration of a L. lactis strain expressing antigenic TScf combined with another L. lactis strain producing the adjuvant c-di-AMP could elicit a TS-specific immune response. Also, an additional L. lactis strain containing a single plasmid with both cdaA and tscf genes under the Pcit and Pnis promoters, respectively, was also able to elicit a specific immune response. Thus, the current report is the first one to describe an engineered L. lactis strain that simultaneously synthesizes the adjuvant c-di-AMP as well as a heterologous antigen in order to develop a simple and economical system for the formulation of vaccine prototypes using a food grade lactic acid bacterium.
The centrosome, as the main microtubule-organizing center, safeguards chromosome segregation by supporting the bipolar spindle. Centrosome aberrations are causally related to chromosome segregation disorders, both characterizing cancer cells. Thus, a restriction to only having one centrosome per cell and cell cycle-dependent duplication of the centrosome is mandatory. Duplicated centrosomes remain physically connected, in order to function as a single entity, until onset of mitosis when centrosome disjunction is licensed by disassembly of linker proteins and accumulation of β-catenin. The crucial role β-catenin plays in centrosome disjunction inevitably demands for restricting its premature accumulation. ODF2 (also known as cenexin) is an essential centrosomal component, but its relevance for the interphase centrosome has not been elucidated. We show here that ODF2 plays a central role in centrosome cohesion. Depletion of ODF2 induces premature centrosome splitting and formation of tripolar spindles that are likely caused by the observed accumulation of centrosomal β-catenin. Our data collectively indicate that ODF2 restricts β-catenin accumulation at the centrosome, thus preventing premature centrosome disjunction.
Cyclic di-AMP is a second-messenger nucleotide that is produced by many bacteria and some archaea. Recent work has shown that c-di-AMP is unique among the signaling nucleotides, as this molecule is in many bacteria both essential on one hand and toxic upon accumulation on the other. Moreover, in bacteria, like Bacillus subtilis, c-di-AMP controls a biological process, potassium homeostasis, by binding both potassium transporters and riboswitch molecules in the mRNAs that encode the potassium transporters. In addition to the control of potassium homeostasis, c-di-AMP has been implicated in many cellular activities, including DNA repair, cell wall homeostasis, osmotic adaptation, biofilm formation, central metabolism, and virulence. c-di-AMP is synthesized and degraded by diadenylate cyclases and phosphodiesterases, respectively. In the diadenylate cyclases, one type of catalytic domain, the diadenylate cyclase (DAC) domain, is coupled to various other domains that control the localization, the protein-protein interactions, and the regulation of the enzymes. The phosphodiesterases have a catalytic core that consists either of a DHH/DHHA1 or of an HD domain. Recent findings on the occurrence, domain organization, activity control, and structural features of diadenylate cyclases and phosphodiesterases are discussed in this review.
Author information:(1)Department of Pathology, Beijing Haidian Hospital/Haidian Section of Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing 100080, China.
Nearly two billion people are latently infected with Mtb (LTBI). Detection of LTBI with high risk to develop active tuberculosis (aTB) is considered the cornerstone to control the disease. The current challenge is to identify markers that better classify LTBI versus aTB. It has been previously shown that Rv0140, a reactivation-associated antigen of Mtb, induces significantly higher IFN-γ production in LTBI individuals as compared to aTB patients. Herein, we show that Rv0140 induces high granzyme B level by PBMCs derived from LTBI (n = 34) as compared to aTB (n = 18). Receiving operator characteristic (ROC) curves were used to evaluate the capacity of Rv0140 to discriminate between LTBI and aTB by measuring IFN-γ and granzyme B secretion. Our results show that, in response to Rv0140, granzyme B seems to allow better discrimination of LTBI from aTB with areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.88 (95% CI 0.79-0.98) as compared to IFN-γ with AUC of 0.85 (95% CI 0.74-0.96) even though CI overlap. Intracellular staining (ICS) experiments and the use of anti-MHC I antibody showed that granzyme B is mainly produced by CD8+ T cells in response to Rv0140. Thus, we propose granzyme B as a host marker to help identify LTBI individuals.
The genes encoding MDM2 and CDK4 are frequently co-amplified in sarcomas, and inhibitors to both targets are approved or clinically tested for therapy. However, we show that inhibitors of MDM2 and CDK4 antagonize each other in their cytotoxicity towards sarcoma cells. CDK4 inhibition attenuates the induction of p53-responsive genes upon MDM2 inhibition. Moreover, the p53 response was also attenuated when co-depleting MDM2 and CDK4 with siRNA, compared to MDM2 single knockdown. The complexes of p53 and MDM2, as well as CDK4 and Cyclin D1, physically associated with each other, suggesting direct regulation of p53 by CDK4. Interestingly, CDK4 inhibition did not reduce p53 binding or histone acetylation at promoters, but rather attenuated the subsequent recruitment of RNA Polymerase II. Taken together, our results suggest that caution must be used when considering combined CDK4 and MDM2 inhibition for patient treatment. Moreover, they uncover a hitherto unknown role for CDK4 and Cyclin D1 in sustaining p53 activity.
Hypopigmented interface T-cell dyscrasia (HITCD) is a distinct form of lymphoid dyscrasia that may progress to hypopigmented mycosis fungoides (HMF). We compared both diseases as regards their CD4/CD8 phenotype and expression of granzyme B and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and how these are affected by narrow-band UVB (nb-UVB). The study included 11 patients with HITCD and 9 patients with HMF. They received nb-UVB thrice weekly until complete repigmentation or a maximum of 48 sessions. Pretreatment and posttreatment biopsies were stained using anti CD4, CD8, TNF-α, and granzyme B monoclonal antibodies. Epidermal lymphocytes were CD8 predominant in 54.5% and 66.7% of HITCD and HMF cases, respectively, whereas dermal lymphocytes were CD4 predominant in 63.6% and 66.7%, respectively. Significantly, more dermal infiltrate was encountered in HMF (P = 0.041). In both diseases, granzyme B was only expressed in the dermis, whereas TNF-α was expressed both in the epidermis and dermis. No difference existed as regards the number of sessions needed to achieve repigmentation or cumulative nb-UVB dose reached at end of study. (P > 0.05). Narrow-band UVB significantly reduced only the epidermal lymphocytes in both diseases (P ≤ 0.05) with their complete disappearance in 8 (72.7%) HITCD and 6 (66.7%) HMF cases. In both diseases, nb-UVB did not affect granzyme B or TNF-α expression (P > 0.05). In conclusion, both diseases share the same phenotype, with HITCD being a milder form of T-cell dysfunction. In both diseases, epidermal lymphocytes are mainly CD8-exhausted cells lacking cytotoxicity, whereas dermal cells are mostly reactive cells exerting antitumor cytotoxicity. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha mediates hypopigmentation in both diseases and prevents disease progression. Repigmentation after nb-UVB in both diseases occurs before and independently from disappearance of the dermal infiltrate.
Human lymphoid tissues harbor, in addition to CD56bright and CD56dim natural killer (NK) cells, a third NK cell population: CD69+CXCR6+ lymphoid tissue (lt)NK cells. The function and development of ltNK cells remain poorly understood. In this study, we performed RNA sequencing on the three NK cell populations derived from bone marrow (BM) and blood. In ltNK cells, 1,353 genes were differentially expressed compared to circulating NK cells. Several molecules involved in migration were downregulated in ltNK cells: S1PR1, SELPLG and CD62L. By flow cytometry we confirmed that the expression profile of adhesion molecules (CD49e-, CD29low, CD81high, CD62L-, CD11c-) and transcription factors (Eomeshigh, Tbetlow) of ltNK cells differed from their circulating counterparts. LtNK cells were characterized by enhanced expression of inhibitory receptors TIGIT and CD96 and low expression of DNAM1 and cytolytic molecules (GZMB, GZMH, GNLY). Their proliferative capacity was reduced compared to the circulating NK cells. By performing gene set enrichment analysis, we identified DUSP6 and EGR2 as potential regulators of the ltNK cell transcriptome. Remarkably, comparison of the ltNK cell transcriptome to the published human spleen-resident memory CD8+ T (Trm) cell transcriptome revealed an overlapping gene signature. Moreover, the phenotypic profile of ltNK cells resembled that of CD8+ Trm cells in BM. Together, we provide transcriptional and phenotypic data that clearly distinguish ltNK cells from both the CD56bright and CD56dim NK cells and substantiate the view that ltNK cells are tissue-resident cells, which are functionally restrained in killing and have low proliferative activity.
SMAD4 is the only common SMAD in TGF-β signaling that usually impedes immune cell activation in the tumor microenvironment. However, we demonstrated here that selective deletion of Smad4 in NK cells actually led to dramatically reduced tumor cell rejection and augmented tumor cell metastases, reduced murine CMV clearance, as well as impeded NK cell homeostasis and maturation. This was associated with a downregulation of granzyme B (Gzmb), Kit, and Prdm1 in Smad4-deficient NK cells. We further unveiled the mechanism by which SMAD4 promotes Gzmb expression. Gzmb was identified as a direct target of a transcriptional complex formed by SMAD4 and JUNB. A JUNB binding site distinct from that for SMAD4 in the proximal Gzmb promoter was required for transcriptional activation by the SMAD4-JUNB complex. In a Tgfbr2 and Smad4 NK cell-specific double-conditional KO model, SMAD4-mediated events were found to be independent of canonical TGF-β signaling. Our study identifies and mechanistically characterizes unusual functions and pathways for SMAD4 in governing innate immune responses to cancer and viral infection, as well as NK cell development.
Comment in    mBio. 2018 Nov 27;9(6):
Erratum for    Cell Death Differ. 2017 Feb;24(2):300-316.
Human CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) contribute to antimicrobial defense against intracellular pathogens through secretion of cytotoxic granule proteins granzyme B, perforin, and granulysin. However, CTLs are heterogeneous in the expression of these proteins, and the subset(s) responsible for antimicrobial activity is unclear. Studying human leprosy, we found that the subset of CTLs coexpressing all three cytotoxic molecules is increased in the resistant form of the disease, can be expanded by interleukin-15 (IL-15), and is differentiated from naïve CD8+ T cells by Langerhans cells. RNA sequencing analysis identified that these CTLs express a gene signature that includes an array of surface receptors typically expressed by natural killer (NK) cells. We determined that CD8+ CTLs expressing granzyme B, perforin, and granulysin, as well as the activating NK receptor NKG2C, represent a population of "antimicrobial CTLs" (amCTLs) capable of T cell receptor (TCR)-dependent and TCR-independent release of cytotoxic granule proteins that mediate antimicrobial activity.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Lactate is one of the products of glycolysis and is a hallmark of the Warburg effect. Glycolysis is found in tumor as well as immune cells. However, the effects of lactate on the function of tumor-infiltrating T cells (TILs) are rarely reported.METHODS: In the present study, we investigated lactate and other glycolysis-related metabolites within TILs of human gastric cancer (GC). Lactate concentration was determined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The functional effects and clinical relevance of excessive lactate on T cells were investigated in clinical samples, and the mechanism of increased lactate was explored.RESULTS: Lactate was significantly increased in GC TILs and related to decreased T helper (Th)1 cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). Increased lactate within GC TILs was positively correlated with increased lactate dehydrogenase A (LDH)A. Expression of LDHA in GC TILs was also negatively correlated with percentages of Th1 cells and CTLs. Decreased miR-34a expression in GC TILs was responsible for increased expression of LDHA. A hypoxic tumor environment was responsible for decreased miR-34a and lactate-induced impaired immune function.CONCLUSION: We found that hypoxia decreases miR-34a expression and lose miR-34a regulation on LDHA, thus increasing lactate level within GC TILs and impairing immune function in GC.
Vitiligo is a skin disease that affects 1% of the population worldwide. Both environmental and genetic factors contribute to the risk of vitiligo. GZMB encodes the enzyme Granzyme B, which plays an important role in cytotoxic T cell-induced apoptosis, and it has been considered one of the candidate genes for vitiligo because of its connections with human immune system. Overall, 3,120 study subjects with Chinese Han ancestry were recruited, and 15 pre-selected SNPs of GZMB were genotyped. Genetic association analyses were performed to evaluate the genetic risk of these SNPs to vitiligo. Further bioinformatic analyses were conducted to examine the potential biological function of targeted SNPs. The SNP rs8192917, a non-synonymous coding SNP, was identified to be significantly associated with the disease status of vitiligo, with OR = 1.39 and P = 1.92 × 10-8. Differences in the association signal can be observed in the stratification analyses of multiple clinical variables. Our positive results provide additional supportive evidence that GZMB gene is an important locus for vitiligo in Han Chinese population.
RNA modifications have been implicated in diverse and important roles in all kingdoms of life with over 100 of them present on tRNAs. A prominent modification at the wobble base of four tRNAs is the 7-deaza-guanine derivative queuine which substitutes the guanine at position 34. This exchange is catalyzed by members of the enzyme class of tRNA guanine transglycosylases (TGTs). These enzymes incorporate guanine substituents into tRNAAsp, tRNAAsn tRNAHis, and tRNATyr in all kingdoms of life. In contrast to the homodimeric bacterial TGT, the active eukaryotic TGT is a heterodimer in solution, comprised of a catalytic QTRT1 subunit and a noncatalytic QTRT2 subunit. Bacterial TGT enzymes, that incorporate a queuine precursor, have been identified or proposed as virulence factors for infections by pathogens in humans and therefore are valuable targets for drug design. To date no structure of a eukaryotic catalytic subunit is reported, and differences to its bacterial counterpart have to be deducted from sequence analysis and models. Here we report the first crystal structure of a eukaryotic QTRT1 subunit and compare it to known structures of the bacterial TGT and murine QTRT2. Furthermore, we were able to determine the crystal structure of QTRT1 in complex with the queuine substrate.
The mechanisms underlying the evolution of morphological novelties have remained enigmatic but co-option of existing gene regulatory networks (GRNs), recruitment of genes and the evolution of orphan genes have all been suggested to contribute. Here, we study a morphological novelty of beetle pupae called gin-trap. By combining the classical candidate gene approach with unbiased screening in the beetle Tribolium castaneum, we find that 70% of the tested components of the wing network were required for gin-trap development. However, many downstream and even upstream components were not included in the co-opted network. Only one gene was recruited from another biological context, but it was essential for the anteroposterior symmetry of the gin-traps, which represents a gin-trap-unique morphological innovation. Our data highlight the importance of co-option and modification of GRNs. The recruitment of single genes may not be frequent in the evolution of morphological novelties, but may be essential for subsequent diversification of the novelties. Finally, after having screened about 28% of annotated genes in the Tribolium genome to identify the genes required for gin-trap development, we found none of them are orphan genes, suggesting that orphan genes may have played only a minor, if any, role in the evolution of gin-traps.
Author information:(1)Department of Physiology, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030001, China.(2)Key Laboratory for Cellular Physiology of Ministry of Education, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030001, China.(3)Department of Psychiatry, First Hospital, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030001, China.(4)Key Laboratory for Cellular Physiology of Ministry of Education, Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030001, China. zhyucnm@163.com.
The STRIPAK complex is involved in growth, cell fusion, development and signaling pathways, and thus malfunctions in the human STRIPAK complex often result in severe neuronal diseases and cancer. Despite the high degree of general conservation throughout the complex, several STRIPAK complex-associated small coiled-coil proteins of animals and yeasts are not conserved across species. As there are no data for filamentous ascomycetes, we addressed this through affinity purification with HA-tagged striatin ortholog PRO11 in Sordaria macrospora. Combining the method with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, we were able to co-purify STRIPAK complex interactor 1 (SCI1), the first STRIPAK-associated small coiled-coil protein in filamentous ascomycetes. Using yeast two-hybrid experiments, we identified SCI1 protein regions required for SCI1-PRO11 interaction, dimerization of SCI1 and interaction with other STRIPAK components. Further, both proteins PRO11 and SCI1 co-localize with the nuclear basket protein SmPOM152 at the nuclear envelope. Expression of the gene sci1 occurs during early developmental stages of S. macrospora, and the protein SCI1 in combination with PRO11 is required for cell fusion, vegetative growth and sexual development. The results of the present study will help to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms of STRIPAK signaling and function in cellular development and diseases in higher eukaryotes.
Elucidation of the underlying molecular mechanisms of immune evasion in cancer is critical for the development of immunotherapies aimed to restore and stimulate effective antitumor immunity. Here, we evaluate the role of the actin cytoskeleton in breast cancer cell resistance to cytotoxic natural killer (NK) cells. A significant fraction of breast cancer cells responded to NK-cell attack via a surprisingly rapid and massive accumulation of F-actin near the immunologic synapse, a process we termed "actin response." Live-cell imaging provided direct evidence that the actin response is associated with tumor cell resistance to NK-cell-mediated cell death. High-throughput imaging flow cytometry analyses showed that breast cancer cell lines highly resistant to NK cells were significantly enriched in actin response-competent cells as compared with susceptible cell lines. The actin response was not associated with a defect in NK-cell activation but correlated with reduced intracellular levels of the cytotoxic protease granzyme B and a lower rate of apoptosis in target cells. Inhibition of the actin response by knocking down CDC42 or N-WASP led to a significant increase in granzyme B levels in target cells and was sufficient to convert resistant breast cancer cell lines into a highly susceptible phenotype. The actin response and its protective effects were fully recapitulated using donor-derived primary NK cells as effector cells. Together, these findings establish the pivotal role of actin remodeling in breast cancer cell resistance to NK-cell-mediated killing.Significance: These findings establish the pivotal role of the actin cytoskeleton in driving breast cancer cell resistance to natural killer cells, a subset of cytotoxic lymphocytes with important roles in innate antitumor immunity. Cancer Res; 78(19); 5631-43. ©2018 AACR.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a conserved degradation process in eukaryotic cells involving the sequestration of proteins and organelles within double-membrane vesicles termed autophagosomes. In filamentous fungi, its main purposes are the regulation of starvation adaptation and developmental processes. In contrast to nonselective bulk autophagy, selective autophagy is characterized by cargo receptors, which bind specific cargos such as superfluous organelles, damaged or harmful proteins, or microbes, and target them for autophagic degradation. Herein, using the core autophagy protein ATG8 as bait, GFP-Trap analysis followed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC/MS) identified a putative homolog of the human autophagy cargo receptor NBR1 (NBR1, autophagy cargo receptor) in the filamentous ascomycete Sordaria macrospora (Sm). Fluorescence microscopy revealed that SmNBR1 colocalizes with SmATG8 at autophagosome-like structures and in the lumen of vacuoles. Delivery of SmNBR1 to the vacuoles requires SmATG8. Both proteins interact in an LC3 interacting region (LIR)-dependent manner. Deletion of Smnbr1 leads to impaired vegetative growth under starvation conditions and reduced sexual spore production under non-starvation conditions. The human NBR1 homolog partially rescues the phenotypic defects of the fungal Smnbr1 deletion mutant. The Smnbr1 mutant can neither use fatty acids as a sole carbon source nor form fruiting bodies under oxidative stress conditions. Fluorescence microscopy revealed that degradation of a peroxisomal reporter protein is impaired in the Smnbr1 deletion mutant. Thus, SmNBR1 is a cargo receptor for pexophagy in filamentous ascomycetes.
CD8 T cells acquire cytotoxic molecules including granzyme B during effector differentiation. Both tissue-resident memory CD8 T cells (Trm) and circulating CD45RA+ effector-type T cells (Temra) cells have the ability to retain granzyme B protein expression into the memory phase, but it is unclear how this persistence of cytolytic activity is regulated during steady state. Previously, we have described that the transcriptional regulators Hobit and Blimp-1 have overlapping target genes that include granzyme B, but their impact on the regulation of cytotoxicity in Trm and Temra cells during homeostasis has remained unclear. We examined the expression regulation of Hobit and Blimp-1 in murine and human CD8 T-cells to determine their timeframe of activity. While Blimp-1 mRNA was expressed throughout effector and memory T cells, Blimp-1 protein, was only transiently expressed during the effector stage. In contrast, Hobit mRNA and protein expression was stably maintained during quiescence, but downregulated after activation. Notably, Blimp-1 was required for expression of granzyme B in murine effector T cells and Trm, while Hobit specifically regulated granzyme B in murine Trm during the memory phase. These findings suggest that Blimp-1 initiates cytotoxic effector function and that Hobit maintains cytotoxicity in a deployment-ready modus in Trm.
Erratum in    PLoS Genet. 2018 Aug 29;14(8):e1007638.
© 2018 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Laccase production and pellet formation of transformants of Coprinopsis cinerea strain FA2222 of C. cinerea laccase gene lcc1 subcloned behind the gpdII-promoter from Agaricus bisporus were compared with a control transformant carrying no extra laccase gene. At the optimum growth temperature of 37 °C, maximal laccase yields of 2.9 U/ml were obtained by the best lcc1 transformant pYSK7-26 in liquid shake flask cultures. Reduction in temperature to 25 °C increased laccase yields up to 9.2 U/ml. The control transformant had no laccase activities at 37 °C but native activity at 25 °C (3.5 U/ml). Changing the temperature had severe effects on the morphology of the mycelial pellets formed during cultivation, but links of distinct pellet morphologies to native or recombinant laccase production could not be established. Automated image analysis was used to characterise pellet formation and morphological parameters (pellet area, diameter, convexity and mycelial structure). Cross sections of selected pellets showed that they differentiated in an outer rind and an inner medulla of loosened hyphae. Pellets at 25 °C had a small and dense outer zone and adopted with time a smooth surface. Pellets at 37 °C had a broader outer zone and a fringy surface due to generation of more and larger protuberances in the rind that when released can serve for production of further pellets.
Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a serious complication after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) that limits the therapeutic potential of this treatment. Host antigen-presenting cells (APCs) play a vital role in activating donor T cells that subsequently use granzyme B (GzmB) and other cytotoxic molecules to damage host normal tissues. Serine protease inhibitor 6 (Spi6), known as the sole endogenous inhibitor of GzmB, has been implicated in protecting T cells and APCs against GzmB-inflicted damage. In this study we used murine models to examine the previously unknown role of host-derived Spi6 in GVHD pathogenesis. Our results indicated that host Spi6 deficiency exacerbated GVHD as evidenced by significantly increased lethality and clinical and histopathologic scores. Using bone marrow chimera system, we found that Spi6 in nonhematopoietic tissue played a dominant role in protecting against GVHD and was significantly upregulated in intestinal epithelial cells after allo-HCT, whereas Spi6 in hematopoietic APCs surprisingly suppressed alloreactive T cell response. Interestingly, the protective effect of Spi6 and its expression in intestinal epithelial cells appeared to be independent of donor-derived GzmB. We used in silico modeling to explore potential targets of Spi6. Interaction tested in silico demonstrated that Spi6 could inhibit caspase-3 and caspase-8 with the same functional loop that inhibits GzmB but was not capable of forming stable interaction with caspase-1 or granzyme A. Using an in vitro co-culture system, we further identified that donor T cell-derived IFN-γ was important for inducing Spi6 expression in an intestinal epithelial cell line. Altogether, our data indicate that host Spi6 plays a novel, GzmB-independent role in regulating alloreactive T cell response and protecting intestinal epithelial cells. Therefore, enhancing host-derived Spi6 function has the potential to reduce GVHD.
Thyroid cancer is one of the malignancies with better clinical outcomes. However, a minority of patients develops an aggressive anaplastic thyroid carcinoma. Development of innovative and multimodal therapeutic strategies is urgently needed. Here, we investigated the role of CXCR5+ CD8 T cells in the peripheral blood, tumor-involved lymph nodes (TILN), and tumor mass of thyroid cancer patients. In peripheral blood mononuclear cells, CXCR5+ cells represented 1.4% ± 0.84% (mean ± s.d.) of total CD8 T cells, while in TILN and in tumor, the frequencies of CXCR5+ CD8 T cells were significantly higher at 27.7% ± 7.8% and 15.5% ± 2.9%, respectively. Compared to CXCR5- CD8 T cells, CXCR5+ CD8 T cells presented significantly higher PD-1 expression and lower or comparable TIM-3 and CTLA-4 expression. To compare and contrast the functional characteristics of CXCR5+ CD8 T cells and CXCR5- CD8 T cells, these cells were separated from TILNs and were TCR-stimulated via anti-CD3/CD28. Upon stimulation, CXCR5+ CD8 T cells presented stronger downregulation of CD27, higher expression of proinflammatory cytokines IL-2, IFN-γ, and TNF-α, and higher proliferation capacity than CXCR5- CD8 T cells. Moreover, CXCR5+ CD8 T cells presented higher expression of cytotoxic molecules Gzm-A, Gzm-B, and perforin. Overall, these results demonstrated that in thyroid cancer patients CXCR5+ CD8 T cells infiltrated the TILNs and the tumors, and were functionally more potent compared to their CXCR5- counterpart.
Adenoviruses are DNA viruses with a lytic infection cycle. Following the fate of incoming as well as recently replicated genomes during infections is a challenge. In this study, we used the ANCHOR3 technology based on a bacterial partitioning system to establish a versatile in vivo imaging system for adenoviral genomes. The system allows the visualization of both individual incoming and newly replicated genomes in real time in living cells. We demonstrate that incoming adenoviral genomes are attached to condensed cellular chromatin during mitosis, facilitating the equal distribution of viral genomes in daughter cells after cell division. We show that the formation of replication centers occurs in conjunction with in vivo genome replication and determine replication rates. Visualization of adenoviral DNA revealed that adenoviruses exhibit two kinetically distinct phases of genome replication. Low-level replication occurred during early replication, while high-level replication was associated with late replication phases. The transition between these phases occurred concomitantly with morphological changes of viral replication compartments and with the appearance of virus-induced postreplication (ViPR) bodies, identified by the nucleolar protein Mybbp1A. Taken together, our real-time genome imaging system revealed hitherto uncharacterized features of adenoviral genomes in vivo The system is able to identify novel spatiotemporal aspects of the adenovirus life cycle and is potentially transferable to other viral systems with a double-stranded DNA phase.IMPORTANCE Viruses must deliver their genomes to host cells to ensure replication and propagation. Characterizing the fate of viral genomes is crucial to understand the viral life cycle and the fate of virus-derived vector tools. Here, we integrated the ANCHOR3 system, an in vivo DNA-tagging technology, into the adenoviral genome for real-time genome detection. ANCHOR3 tagging permitted the in vivo visualization of incoming genomes at the onset of infection and of replicated genomes at late phases of infection. Using this system, we show viral genome attachment to condensed host chromosomes during mitosis, identifying this mechanism as a mode of cell-to-cell transfer. We characterize the spatiotemporal organization of adenovirus replication and identify two kinetically distinct phases of viral genome replication. The ANCHOR3 system is the first technique that allows the continuous visualization of adenoviral genomes during the entire virus life cycle, opening the way for further in-depth study.
CD8+CD28- T suppressor cells (Ts) have been recently documented to play an important role in alloimmunity. Therefore, understanding and optimizing the conditions under which these cells are generated and/or expanded would greatly facilitate further research and potential clinical use. In this study, we describe rapid expansion of human allospecific CD8+CD28- Ts cells through coculture of CD8+ T cells with human leukocyte antigen-mismatched donor antigen-presenting cells plus IL-15 in a relative short period of time in vitro. Interestingly, IL-15 promotes the expansion of CD8+CD28- Ts cells through several parallel mechanisms. The expanded CD8+CD28- Ts cells upregulate expression of CD132, CD25, and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), but downregulate expression of CD122, GZM-B, and perforin, while exhibiting no cytotoxicity. Most importantly, the expanded CD8+CD28- Ts cells vigorously inhibit CD4+ T cells proliferation in a contact-dependent and donor-specific manner both in vitro and in vivo. Interestingly, the co-inhibitory molecules PD-1 and programmed death-ligand 1 play an obligatory role in the mechanisms of CD8+CD28- Ts cells suppression. Taken together, our study report novel methodology for IL-15-induced expansion of human CD8+CD28- Ts cells and possible mechanisms. These findings may facilitate understanding of transplant rejection and promote clinical application of CD8+CD28- Ts cell-based strategies for inducing and monitoring transplant tolerance in the future.
Targeting macroautophagy/autophagy is a novel strategy in cancer immunotherapy. In the present study, we showed that the natural product rocaglamide (RocA) enhanced natural killer (NK) cell-mediated lysis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells in vitro and tumor regression in vivo. Moreover, this effect was not related to the NK cell recognition of target cells or expressions of death receptors. Instead, RocA inhibited autophagy and restored the level of NK cell-derived GZMB (granzyme B) in NSCLC cells, therefore increasing their susceptibility to NK cell-mediated killing. In addition, we further identified that the target of RocA was ULK1 (unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1) that is required for autophagy initiation. Using firefly luciferase containing the 5´ untranslated region of ULK1, we found that RocA inhibited the protein translation of ULK1 in a sequence-specific manner. Taken together, RocA could block autophagic immune resistance to NK cell-mediated killing, and our data suggested that RocA was a promising therapeutic candidate in NK cell-based cancer immunotherapy.
The DEAH-box ATPase Prp2 plays a key role in the activation of the spliceosome as it promotes the transition from the Bact to the catalytically active B* spliceosome. Here, four crystal structures of Prp2 are reported: one of the nucleotide-free state and three different structures of the ADP-bound state. The overall conformation of the helicase core, formed by two RecA-like domains, does not differ significantly between the ADP-bound and the nucleotide-free states. However, intrinsic flexibility of Prp2 is observed, varying the position of the C-terminal domains with respect to the RecA domains. Additionally, in one of the structures a unique ADP conformation is found which has not been observed in any other DEAH-box, DEAD-box or NS3/NPH-II helicase.
BACKGROUND: Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia (MPP) is one of the most common community-acquired pneumonia; this study is to explore the immune-pathogenesis of children MPP.METHODS: Next-generation transcriptome sequencing was performed on the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cells from six children with MPP and three children with foreign body aspiration as control. Some of the results had been validated by quantitative real-time PCR in an expanded group of children.RESULTS: Results revealed 810 differentially expressed genes in MPP group comparing to control group, of which 412 genes including RLTPR, CARD11 and RASAL3 were upregulated. These upregulated genes were mainly enriched in mononuclear cell proliferation and signaling biological processes. Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes pathway analysis revealed that hematopoietic cell linage pathway, natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity pathway, and T cell receptor signaling pathway were significantly upregulated in MPP children. In addition, significant alternative splicing events were found in GNLY and SLC11A1 genes, which may cause the differential expressions of these genes.CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that NK and CD8+ T cells are over activated and proliferated in MPP children; the upregulated IFNγ, PRF1, GZMB, FASL, and GNLY may play important roles in the pathogenesis of children MPP.
Impaired NK cell cytotoxic activity contributes to the local dysfunctional immune environment in endometriosis (EMS), which is an estrogen-dependent gynecological disease that affects the function of ectopic endometrial tissue clearance. The reason for the impaired cytotoxic activity of NK cells in an ectopic lesion microenvironment (ELM) is largely unknown. In this study, we show that the macroautophagy/autophagy level of endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) from EMS decreased under negative regulation of estrogen. The ratio of peritoneal FCGR3- NK to FCGR3+ NK cells increases as EMS progresses. Moreover, the autophagy suppression results in the downregulation of HCK (hematopoietic cellular kinase) by inactivating STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3), as well as the increased secretion of the downstream molecules CXCL8/IL8 and IL23A by ESCs, and this increase induced the upregulation of FCGR3- NK cells and decline of cytotoxic activity in ELM. This process is mediated through the depression of microRNA MIR1185-1-3p, which is associated with the activation of the target gene PTGS2 in NK cells. FCGR3- NK with a phenotype of PTGS2/COX2high IFNGlow PRF1low GZMBlow induced by hck knockout (hck-/-) or 3-methyladenine (3-MA, an autophagy inhibitor)-stimulated ESCs accelerates ESC's growth both in vitro and in vivo. These results suggest that the estrogen-autophagy-STAT3-HCK axis participates in the differentiation of PTGS2high IFNGlow PRF1low GZMBlow FCGR3- NK cells in ELM and contributes to the development of EMS. This result provides a scientific basis for potential therapeutic strategies to treat diseases related to impaired NK cell cytotoxic activity.ABBREVIATIONS: anti-FCGR3: anti-FCGR3 with neutralizing antibody; Ctrl-ESC: untreated ESCs; CXCL8: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8; ectoESC: ESCs from ectopic lesion; ELM: ectopic lesion microenvironment; EMS: endometriosis; ESCs: endometrial stromal cells; eutoESC:eutopic ESCs; HCK: hematopoietic cellular kinase; HCK(OE): overexpression of HCK; IFNG: interferon gamma; IL23A (OE): overexpression of IL23A; KLRK1: Killer cell lectin like receptor K1; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; 3 -MA: 3-methyladenine; 3-MA-ESC: 3-MA-treated ESCs; MIR1185-1-3p+: overexpression of HsMIR1185-1-3p; NK: natural killer; normESCs: normal ESCs; Rap-ESC:rapamycin-treated ESCs; PCNA: proliferating cell nuclear antigen; PF: peritoneal fluid; SFKs: SRC family of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases; si-HCK: silencing of HCK; siIL23A: silencing of IL23A; USCs: uterus stromal cells.
In healthy skin, epidermis and dermis are anchored together at the dermal-epidermal junction (DEJ), a specialized basement membrane pivotal for skin integrity and function. However, increased inflammation in the DEJ is associated with the disruption and separation of this junction and sub-epidermal blistering. Granzyme B (GzmB) is a serine protease secreted by immune cells. Dysregulated inflammation may lead to increased GzmB accumulation and proteolysis in the extracellular milieu. Although elevated GzmB is observed at the level of the DEJ in inflammatory and blistering skin conditions, the present study is the first to explore GzmB in the context of DEJ degradation in autoimmune sub-epidermal blistering. In the present study, GzmB induced separation of the DEJ in healthy human skin. Subsequently, α6/β4 integrin, collagen VII, and collagen XVII were identified as extracellular substrates for GzmB through western blot, and specific cleavage sites were identified by mass spectrometry. In human bullous pemphigoid, dermatitis herpetiformis, and epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, GzmB was elevated at the DEJ when compared to healthy samples, while α6/β4 integrin, collagen VII, and collagen XVII were reduced or absent in the area of blistering. In summary, our results suggest that regardless of the initial causation of sub-epidermal blistering, GzmB activity is a common final pathway that could be amenable to a single targeted treatment approach.
Although high-risk human papillomavirus (HR‑HPV) infection has a prominent role in the aetiology of cervical cancer (CC), sex steroid hormones may also be involved in this process; however, the cooperation between oestrogen and HR‑HPV in the early stages of cervical carcinogenesis is poorly understood. Since 17β-oestradiol (E2) and the HPV type 16‑E7 oncoprotein induce CC in transgenic mice, a microarray analysis was performed in the present study to generate global gene expression profiles from 2‑month‑old FVB (non‑transgenic) and K14E7 (transgenic) mice who were left untreated or were treated for 1 month with E2. Upregulation of cancer-related genes that have not been previously reported in the context of CC, including glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase domain containing 3, interleukin 1 receptor type II, natriuretic peptide type C, MGAT4 family member C, lecithin-retinol acyltransferase (phosphatidylcholine-retinol-O-acyltransferase) and glucoside xylosyltransferase 2, was observed. Notably, upregulation of the serine (or cysteine) peptidase inhibitor clade B member 9 gene and downregulation of the Granzyme gene family were observed; the repression of the Granzyme B pathway may be a novel mechanism of immune evasion by cancer cells. The present results provide the basis for further studies on early biomarkers of CC risk and synergistic interactions between HR‑HPV and oestrogen.
Effector CD8+ T cells generally produce type-1 cytokines and mediators of the perforin/granzyme cytolytic pathway, yet type-2-polarized CD8+ cells (Tc2) are detected in type-2 (T2) cytokine-driven diseases such as asthma. It is unclear whether T2 cytokine exposure during activation is sufficient to polarize human CD8+ T cells. To address this question, a protocol was developed for high-efficiency activation of human CD8+ T cells in which purified single cells or populations were stimulated with plate-bound anti-CD3 and anti-CD11a mAb for up to 8 days in T2 polarizing or neutral conditions, before functional analysis. Activation of CD8+ naïve T cells (TN) in T2 compared with neutral conditions decreased the size of single-cell clones, although early division kinetics were equivalent, indicating an effect on overall division number. Activation of TN in T2 conditions followed by brief anti-CD3 mAb restimulation favored expression of T2 cytokines, GATA3 and Eomes, and lowered expression of type-1 cytokines, Prf1, Gzmb, T-BET, and Prdm1. However, IL-4 was only weakly expressed, and PMA and ionomycin restimulation favored IFN-γ over IL-4 expression. Activation of TN in T2 compared with neutral conditions prevented downregulation of costimulatory (CD27, CD28) and lymph-node homing receptors (CCR7) and CD95 acquisition, which typically occur during differentiation into effector phenotypes. CD3 was rapidly and substantially induced after activation in neutral, but not T2 conditions, potentially contributing to greater division and differentiation in neutral conditions. CD8+ central memory T cells (TCM) were less able to enter division upon reactivation in T2 compared with neutral conditions, and were more refractory to modulating IFN-γ and IL-4 production than CD8+ TN. In summary, while activation of TN in T2 conditions can generate T2 cytokine-biased cells, IL-4 expression is weak, T2 bias is lost upon strong restimulation, differentiation, and division are arrested, and reactivation of TCM is reduced in T2 conditions. Taken together, this suggests that exposure to T2 cytokines during activation may not be sufficient to generate and retain human Tc2 cells.
Dnmt2 methylates cytosine at position 38 of tRNAAsp in a variety of eukaryotic organisms. A correlation between the presence of the hypermodified nucleoside queuosine (Q) at position 34 of tRNAAsp and the Dnmt2 dependent C38 methylation was recently found in vivo for S. pombe and D. discoideum. We demonstrate a direct effect of the Q-modification on the methyltransferase catalytic efficiency in vitro, as Vmax/K0.5 of purified S. pombe Dnmt2 shows an increase for in vitro transcribed tRNAAsp containing Q34 to 6.27 ∗ 10-3 s-1 µM-1 compared to 1.51 ∗ 10-3 s-1 µM-1 for the unmodified substrate. Q34tRNAAsp exhibits an only slightly increased affinity for Dnmt2 in comparison to unmodified G34tRNA. In order to get insight into the structural basis for the Q-dependency, the crystal structure of S. pombe Dnmt2 was determined at 1.7 Å resolution. It closely resembles the known structures of human and E. histolytica Dnmt2, and contains the entire active site loop. The interaction with tRNA was analyzed by means of mass-spectrometry using UV cross-linked Dnmt2-tRNA complex. These cross-link data and computational docking of Dnmt2 and tRNAAsp reveal Q34 positioned adjacent to the S-adenosylmethionine occupying the active site, suggesting that the observed increase of Dnmt2 catalytic efficiency by queuine originates from optimal positioning of the substrate molecules and residues relevant for methyl transfer.
Objective- Recruitment of immunologic competent cells to the vessel wall is a crucial step in formation of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA). Innate immunity effectors (eg, macrophages), as well as mediators of adaptive immunity (eg, T cells), orchestrate a local vascular inflammatory response. IL-10 (interleukin-10) is an immune-regulatory cytokine with a crucial role in suppression of inflammatory processes. We hypothesized that an increase in systemic IL-10-levels would mitigate AAA progression. Approach and Results- Using a single intravenous injection protocol, we transfected an IL-10 transcribing nonimmunogenic minicircle vector into the Ang II (angiotensin II)-ApoE-/- infusion mouse model of AAA. IL-10 minicircle transfection significantly reduced average aortic diameter measured via ultrasound at day 28 from 166.1±10.8% (control) to 131.0±5.8% (IL-10 transfected). Rates of dissecting AAA were reduced by IL-10 treatment, with an increase in freedom from dissecting AAA from 21.5% to 62.3%. Using flow cytometry of aortic tissue from minicircle IL-10-treated animals, we found a significantly higher percentage of CD4+/CD25+/Foxp3 (forkhead box P3)+ regulatory T cells, with fewer CD8+/GZMB+ (granzyme B) cytotoxic T cells. Furthermore, isolated aortic macrophages produced less TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor-α), more IL-10, and were more likely to be MRC1 (mannose receptor, C type 1)-positive alternatively activated macrophages. These results concurred with gene expression analysis of lipopolysaccharide-stimulated and Ang II-primed human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Conclusions- Taken together, we provide an effective gene therapy approach to AAA in mice by enhancing antiinflammatory and dampening proinflammatory pathways through minicircle-induced augmentation of systemic IL-10 expression.
Prostate cancer is the most diagnosed malignancy and the second leading cause of cancer-related death in American men. While localized therapy is highly curative, treatments for metastatic prostate cancer are largely palliative. Thus, new innovative therapies are needed to target metastatic tumors. Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) is a chymotrypsin-like protease with a unique substrate specificity that is secreted by both normal and malignant prostate epithelial cells. Previous studies demonstrated the presence of high levels (μM-mM) of enzymatically active PSA is present in the extracellular fluid of the prostate cancer microenvironment. Because of this, PSA is an attractive target for a protease activated pro-toxin therapeutic strategy. Because prostate cancers typically grow very slowly, a strategy employing a proliferation-independent cytotoxic payload is preferred. Recently, it was shown that the human protease Granzyme B (GZMB), at low micromolar concentrations in the extracellular space, can cleave an array of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins thus perturbing cell growth, signaling, motility, and integrity. It is also well established that other human proteases such as trypsin can induce similar effects. Because both enzymes require N-terminal proteolytic activation, we propose to convert these proteins into PSA-activated cytotoxins. In this study, we examine the enzymatic and cell targeting parameters of these PSA-activated cytotoxic serine proteases. These pro-enzymes were activated robustly by PSA and induced ECM damage that led to the death of prostate cancer cells in vitro thus supporting the potential use of this strategy as means to target metastatic prostate cancers.
Here, we developed a robust lipidomics workflow merging both targeted and untargeted approaches on a single liquid chromatography coupled to quadrupole-time of flight (LC-QqTOF) mass spectrometry platform with parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). PRM assays integrate both untargeted profiling from MS1 scans and targeted profiling obtained from MS/MS data. This workflow enabled the discovery of more than 2300 unidentified features and identification of more than 600 lipid species from 23 lipid classes at the level of fatty acid/long chain base/sterol composition in a barley root extracts. We detected the presence of 142 glycosyl inositol phosphorylceramides (GIPC) with HN(Ac)-HA as the core structure of the polar head, 12 cardiolipins and 17 glucuronosyl diacylglycerols (GlcADG) which have been rarely reported previously for cereal crops. Using a scheduled algorithm with up to 100 precursors multiplexed per duty cycle, the PRM assay was able to achieve a rapid profiling of 291 species based on MS/MS data by a single injection. We used this novel approach to demonstrate the applicability and efficiency of the workflow to study salt stress induced changes in the barley root lipidome. Results show that 221 targeted lipids and 888 unknown features were found to have changed significantly in response to salt stress. This combined targeted and untargeted single workflow approach provides novel applications of lipidomics addressing biological questions.
Granzyme B (GzmB) is a serine protease that has long been thought to function exclusively in lymphocyte-mediated apoptosis. In recent years, this paradigm has been revisited due to the recognition that GzmB accumulates in the extracellular milieu in many autoimmune and chronic inflammatory disorders, and contributes to impaired tissue remodeling due to the cleavage of extracellular matrix proteins. Knockout studies suggest that GzmB-mediated cleavage of decorin (DCN) contributes to impaired collagen fibrillogenesis and remodeling. As DCN is anti-fibrotic and contributes to reduced hypertrophic scarring, GzmB-induced DCN cleavage could play a role in wound healing following burn injury. In the present study, a novel, gel-formulated, first-in-class small-molecule inhibitor of GzmB, VTI-1002, was assessed in a murine model of impaired, diabetic burn wound healing. VTI-1002 exhibited high specificity, potency, and target selectivity. Gel-formulated VTI-1002 was able to penetrate the stratum corneum and was retained in the skin with minimal systemic absorption. Daily topical administration of VTI-1002 gel for 30 days following thermal injury showed significantly accelerated wound closure, increased DCN protein levels, and collagen organization that was translated into significantly increased wound tensile strength compared to controls. Overall, VTI-1002 gel was well-tolerated in vivo and no adverse events were observed. Topical application of VTI-1002 represents a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of cutaneous burn wounds.
BACKGROUND: The role of the liver for survival of blood-stage malaria is only poorly understood. In experimental blood-stage malaria with Plasmodium chabaudi, protective vaccination induces healing and, thus, survival of otherwise lethal infections. This model is appropriate to study the role of the liver in vaccination-induced survival of blood-stage malaria.METHODS: Female Balb/c mice were vaccinated with a non-infectious vaccine consisting of plasma membranes isolated in the form of erythrocyte ghosts from P. chabaudi-infected erythrocytes at week 3 and week 1 before infection with P. chabaudi blood-stage malaria. Gene expression microarrays and quantitative real-time PCR were used to investigate the response of the liver, in terms of expression of mRNA and long intergenic non-coding (linc)RNA, to vaccination-induced healing infections and lethal P. chabaudi malaria at early patency on day 4 post infection, when parasitized erythrocytes begin to appear in peripheral blood.RESULTS: In vaccination-induced healing infections, 23 genes were identified to be induced in the liver by > tenfold at p < 0.01. More than one-third were genes known to be involved in erythropoiesis, such as Kel, Rhag, Ahsp, Ermap, Slc4a1, Cldn13 Gata1, and Gfi1b. Another group of > tenfold expressed genes include genes involved in natural cytotoxicity, such as those encoding killer cell lectin-like receptors Klrb1a, Klrc3, Klrd1, the natural cytotoxicity-triggering receptor 1 Ncr1, as well as the granzyme B encoding Gzmb. Additionally, a series of genes involved in the control of cell cycle and mitosis were identified: Ccnb1, Cdc25c, Ckap2l were expressed > tenfold only in vaccination-protected mice, and the expression of 22 genes was at least 100% higher in vaccination-protected mice than in non-vaccinated mice. Furthermore, distinct lincRNA species were changed by > threefold in livers of vaccination-protected mice, whereas lethal malaria induced different lincRNAs.CONCLUSION: The present data suggest that protective vaccination accelerates the malaria-induced occurrence of extramedullary erythropoiesis, generation of liver-resident cytotoxic cells, and regeneration from malaria-induced injury in the liver at early patency, which may be critical for final survival of otherwise lethal blood-stage malaria of P. chabaudi.
Asthma has been the most common chronic disease in children that places a major burden for affected people and their families.An integrated analysis of microarrays studies was performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in childhood asthma compared with normal control. We also obtained the differentially methylated genes (DMGs) in childhood asthma according to GEO. The genes that were both differentially expressed and differentially methylated were identified. Functional annotation and protein-protein interaction network construction were performed to interpret biological functions of DEGs. We performed q-RT-PCR to verify the expression of selected DEGs.One DNA methylation and 3 gene expression datasets were obtained. Four hundred forty-one DEGs and 1209 DMGs in childhood asthma were identified. Among which, 16 genes were both differentially expressed and differentially methylated in childhood asthma. Natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity pathway, Jak-STAT signaling pathway, and Wnt signaling pathway were 3 significantly enriched pathways in childhood asthma according to our KEGG enrichment analysis. The PPI network of top 20 up- and downregulated DEGs consisted of 822 nodes and 904 edges and 2 hub proteins (UBQLN4 and MID2) were identified. The expression of 8 DEGs (GZMB, FGFBP2, CLC, TBX21, ALOX15, IL12RB2, UBQLN4) was verified by qRT-PCR and only the expression of GZMB and FGFBP2 was inconsistent with our integrated analysis.Our finding was helpful to elucidate the underlying mechanism of childhood asthma and develop new potential diagnostic biomarker and provide clues for drug design.
Cytotoxic CD8+ T (Tc) cells are the main executors of transformed and cancer cells during cancer immunotherapy. The latest clinical results evidence a high efficacy of novel immunotherapy agents that modulate Tc cell activity against bad prognosis cancers. However, it has not been determined yet whether the efficacy of these treatments can be affected by selection of tumoural cells with mutations in the cell death machinery, known to promote drug resistance and cancer recurrence. Here, using a model of prophylactic tumour vaccination based on the LCMV-gp33 antigen and the mouse EL4 T lymphoma, we analysed the molecular mechanism employed by Tc cells to eliminate cancer cells in vivo and the impact of mutations in the apoptotic machinery on tumour development. First of all, we found that Tc cells, and perf and gzmB are required to efficiently eliminate EL4.gp33 cells after LCMV immunisation during short-term assays (1-4 h), and to prevent tumour development in the long term. Furthermore, we show that antigen-pulsed chemoresistant EL4 cells overexpressing Bcl-XL or a dominant negative form of caspase-3 are specifically eliminated from the peritoneum of infected animals, as fast as parental EL4 cells. Notably, antigen-specific Tc cells control the tumour growth of the mutated cells, as efficiently as in the case of parental cells. Altogether, expression of the anti-apoptotic mutations does not confer any advantage for tumour cells neither in the short-term survival nor in long-term tumour formation. Although the mechanism involved in the elimination of the apoptosis-resistant tumour cells is not completely elucidated, neither necroptosis nor pyroptosis seem to be involved. Our results provide the first experimental proof that chemoresistant cancer cells with mutations in the main cell death pathways are efficiently eliminated by Ag-specific Tc cells in vivo during immunotherapy and, thus, provide the molecular basis to treat chemoresistant cancer cells with CD8 Tc-based immunotherapy.
Clinical evidence suggests that most idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury (IDILI) is immune-mediated. The danger hypothesis suggests that liver injury and inflammation would increase the risk of an immune response leading to IDILI. Therefore, a reasonable hypothesis would be that an underlying chronic liver disease such as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) would increase the risk of developing IDILI due to inflammation and release of danger signals from damaged cells. In order to test this hypothesis, mice were fed a methionine-/choline-deficient (MCD) diet that produces a consistent NASH phenotype, along with amodiaquine (AQ) - a drug known to cause IDILI in humans. This study employed both wild-type C57BL/6 mice and PD-1-/- mice co-treated with anti-CTLA-4 antibodies. The PD-1-/- + anti-CTLA-4 model produces an immune-mediated liver injury very similar to the idiosyncratic liver injury observed in humans. The liver injury observed in the present experiment was dominated by the injury caused by the MCD diet; there was no significant difference between mice treated with the MCD diet alone and those also treated with AQ, whether in wild-type mice of the PD-1-/- model. Therefore, the MCD diet, which results in a state that mimics NASH, did not appear to increase the liver injury associated with AQ treatment. Ultimately, an animal model is just that - only a model, and cannot provide a definitive answer to clinical questions. However, given the difficulty of performing clinical studies with appropriate control populations, the present results provide important evidence to support a general clinical finding that underlying liver injury does not usually increase the risk of IDILI.
Metabolic activity and epigenetic regulation of gene expression are intimately coupled. The mechanisms linking the two are incompletely understood. Sirtuins catalyse the removal of acetyl groups from lysine side chains of proteins using NAD+ as a stoichiometric cofactor, thereby connecting the acetylation state of histones to energy supply of the cell. Here, we investigate the impact of lysine acetylation turnover by sirtuins on cell physiology by engineering Sirtase, an enzyme that self-acetylates and deacetylates in futile cycles. Expression of Sirtase in E. coli leads to the consumption of the majority of the cellular NAD+ supply, indicating that there is little negative feedback from reaction products, O-acetyl-ADP-ribose and nicotinamde, on sirtuin activity. Targeting Sirtase to a partially defective E silencer of the budding yeast mating type locus restores silencing, indicating that lysine acetylation turnover stabilizes heterochromatin in yeast. We speculate that this could be the consequence of local acetyl-CoA depletion because the effect is equally pronounced if the sirtuin moiety of Sirtase is exchanged with Hos3, a NAD+-independent deacetylase. Our findings support the concept that metabolism and epigenetic regulation are linked via modulation of heterochromatin stability by lysine acetylation turnover.
TDP-43 and FUS are nuclear proteins with multiple functions in mRNA processing. They play key roles in ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and FTD (frontotemporal dementia), where they are partially lost from the nucleus and aggregate in the cytoplasm of neurons and glial cells. Defects in nucleocytoplasmic transport contribute to this pathology, hence nuclear import of both proteins has been studied in detail. However, their nuclear export routes remain poorly characterized and it is unclear whether aberrant nuclear export contributes to TDP-43 or FUS pathology. Here we show that predicted nuclear export signals in TDP-43 and FUS are non-functional and that both proteins are exported independently of the export receptor CRM1/Exportin-1. Silencing of Exportin-5 or the mRNA export factor Aly/REF, as well as mutations that abrogate RNA-binding do not impair export of TDP-43 and FUS. However, artificially enlarging TDP-43 or FUS impairs their nuclear egress, suggesting that they could leave the nucleus by passive diffusion. Finally, we found that inhibition of transcription causes accelerated nuclear egress of TDP-43, suggesting that newly synthesized RNA retains TDP-43 in the nucleus, limiting its egress into the cytoplasm. Our findings implicate reduced nuclear retention as a possible factor contributing to mislocalization of TDP-43 in ALS/FTD.
Previous studies have demonstrated that T-helper 17 (TH17) cells and cytolytic natural killer (cNK) cells are increased in women with preeclampsia. In this study we investigated the role of placental ischemia-stimulated TH17 cells in induction of cNK cells in pregnancy. We further assessed the role of TH17 cell-mediated oxidative stress in facilitation of cNK cell activation in pregnancy by treating rats with the SOD mimetic tempol. CD4+/CD25- cells were isolated from reduced uterine perfusion pressure (RUPP) rats and differentiated into TH17 cells in vitro. On day 12 of gestation ( GD12), 1 × 106 placental ischemia-stimulated TH17 cells were injected into normal pregnant (NP) rats (NP + RUPP TH17 rats), and a subset of rats were treated with tempol (30 mg·kg-1·day-1) from GD12 to GD19 (NP + RUPP TH17 + tempol rats). On GD19, cNK cells, mean arterial pressure, fetal weight, and cNK cell-associated cytokines and proteins were measured. Placental cNK cells were 2.9 ± 1, 14.9 ± 4, and 2.8 ± 1.0% gated in NP, NP + RUPP TH17, and NP + RUPP TH17 + tempol rats, respectively. Mean arterial pressure increased from 96 ± 5 mmHg in NP rats to 118 ± 2 mmHg in NP + RUPP TH17 rats and was 102 ± 3 mmHg in NP + RUPP TH17 + tempol rats. Fetal weight was 2.37 ± 0.04, 1.95 ± 0.14, and 2.3 ± 0.05 g in NP, NP + RUPP TH17, and NP + RUPP TH17 + tempol rats, respectively. Placental IFNγ increased from 1.1 ± 0.6 pg/mg in NP rats to 3.9 ± 0.6 pg/mg in NP + RUPP TH17 rats. Placental perforin increased from 0.18 ± 0.18 pg/mg in NP rats to 2.4 ± 0.6 pg/mg in NP + RUPP TH17 rats. Placental levels of granzymes A and B followed a similar pattern. Treatment with tempol did not lower placental cNK cytokines or proteins. The results of the present study identify TH17 cells as a mediator of aberrant NK cell activation that is associated with preeclampsia.
The signaling pathway driven by p38 and MAPKAPK2 alias MK2 is activated as part of stress responses, and these kinases represent attractive drug targets for cancer therapy. However, seemingly conflicting results were obtained when assessing the role of MK2 in chemotherapy. MK2 inhibitors were reported to either enhance or diminish the chemosensitivity of cancer cells. Here we show that this strongly depends on the particular chemotherapeutic drug. Two different MK2 inhibitors increased the proliferating fraction of pancreatic cancer-derived cells upon treatment with gemcitabine, whereas no consistent protection against cisplatin was observed. Both drugs enhanced, rather than attenuated, the toxicity of another DNA crosslinking agent, mitomycin C. Gemcitabine and cisplatin were each capable of activating MK2, and we did not observe differences in the intracellular localization of MK2 upon treatment. However, DNA replication fork progression, as determined by fiber assays, was restored by MK2 inhibition upon treatment with gemcitabine, but not when cisplatin was used. Thus, MK2 is required for the reduction in DNA replication in response to gemcitabine but not to cisplatin. These observations raise the need to carefully evaluate synergisms and antagonisms with conventional chemotherapeutics when taking MK2 inhibitors to the clinics.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most common and aggressive primary brain tumor, has a high mortality rate despite extensive efforts to develop new treatments. GBM exhibits both intra- and intertumor heterogeneity, lending to resistance and eventual tumor recurrence. Large-scale genomic and proteomic analysis of GBM tumors has uncovered potential drug targets. Effective and "druggable" targets must be validated to embark on a robust medicinal chemistry campaign culminating in the discovery of clinical candidates. Here, we review recent developments in GBM drug discovery and delivery. To identify GBM drug targets, we performed extensive bioinformatics analysis using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas project. We discovered 20 genes, BOC, CLEC4GP1, ELOVL6, EREG, ESR2, FDCSP, FURIN, FUT8-AS1, GZMB, IRX3, LITAF, NDEL1, NKX3-1, PODNL1, PTPRN, QSOX1, SEMA4F, TH, VEGFC, and C20orf166AS1 that are overexpressed in a subpopulation of GBM patients and correlate with poor survival outcomes. Importantly, nine of these genes exhibit higher expression in GBM versus low-grade glioma and may be involved in disease progression. In this review, we discuss these proteins in the context of GBM disease progression. We also conducted computational multi-parameter optimization to assess the blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability of small molecules in clinical trials for GBM treatment. Drug delivery in the context of GBM is particularly challenging because the BBB hinders small molecule transport. Therefore, we discuss novel drug delivery methods, including nanoparticles and prodrugs. Given the aggressive nature of GBM and the complexity of targeting the central nervous system, effective treatment options are a major unmet medical need. Identification and validation of biomarkers and drug targets associated with GBM disease progression present an exciting opportunity to improve treatment of this devastating disease.
Author information:(1)Clinical Laboratory, Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital, Yantai 264000, PR China.(2)Clinical Laboratory, Yeda Hospital, Yantai 264000, PR China.(3)Clinical Laboratory, Yantai Taocun Central Hospital, Yantai 265301, PR China.(4)Department of Radiology, Yantai Oral Hospital, Yantai 264000, PR China.(5)Department of Blood Transfusion, Yeda Hospital, Yantai 264000, PR China. Electronic address: xinguangwangxgw@126.com.
Importin 13 is a member of the importin β family of transport receptors. Unlike most family members, importin 13 mediates both, nuclear protein import and export. To search for novel importin 13 cargoes, we used stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and mass spectrometry. Using stringent criteria, we identified 255 importin 13 substrates, including the known cargoes Ubc9, Mago and eIF1A, and validate many of them as transport cargoes by extensive biochemical and cell biological characterization. Several novel cargoes can also be transported by the export receptor CRM1, demonstrating a clear redundancy in receptor choice. Using importin 13 mutants, we show that many of the novel substrates contact regions on the transport receptor that are not used by Ubc9, Mago or eIF1A. Together, this study significantly expands the repertoire of importin 13 cargoes and sets the basis for a more detailed characterization of this extremely versatile transport receptor.
Tight connection between sperm head and tail is crucial for the transport of the male genome and fertilization. The linkage complex, the sperm head-to-tail coupling apparatus (HTCA), originates from the centrosome and anchors to the nuclear membrane. In contrast to its ultra-structural organization, which is already well known for decades, its protein composition largely still awaits future deciphering. SUN-domain proteins are essential components of a complex that links the cytoskeleton to the peripheral nucleoskeleton, which is the nuclear lamina. Here, we studied the impact of the SUN protein SPAG4/SUN4 on the formation of the HTCA. SPAG4/SUN4 is specifically expressed in haploid male germ cells showing a polarized distribution towards the posterior pole in late spermatids that corresponds to the tail attachment site. SPAG4-deficient male mice are infertile with compromised manchette formation and malformed sperm heads. Nonetheless, sperm tails are present demonstrating dispensability of a proper manchette for their formation. Ultra-structural analyses revealed that the development of the sperm head-to-tail linkage complex in the absence of SPAG4 resembles that in the wild type. However, in SPAG4-deficient sperm, the attachment site is diminished with obvious lateral detachment of the HTCA from the nucleus. Our results thus indicate that SPAG4, albeit not essential for the formation of the HTCA per se, is, nevertheless, required for tightening the sperm head-to-tail anchorage by provoking the correct attachment of the lateral parts of the basal plate to the implantation fossa.
Filamentous fungi constitute a large group of eukaryotic microorganisms that grow by forming simple tube-like hyphae that are capable of differentiating into more-complex morphological structures and distinct cell types. Hyphae form filamentous networks by extending at their tips while branching in subapical regions. Rapid tip elongation requires massive membrane insertion and extension of the rigid chitin-containing cell wall. This process is sustained by a continuous flow of secretory vesicles that depends on the coordinated action of the microtubule and actin cytoskeletons and the corresponding motors and associated proteins. Vesicles transport cell wall-synthesizing enzymes and accumulate in a special structure, the Spitzenkörper, before traveling further and fusing with the tip membrane. The place of vesicle fusion and growth direction are enabled and defined by the position of the Spitzenkörper, the so-called cell end markers, and other proteins involved in the exocytic process. Also important for tip extension is membrane recycling by endocytosis via early endosomes, which function as multipurpose transport vehicles for mRNA, septins, ribosomes, and peroxisomes. Cell integrity, hyphal branching, and morphogenesis are all processes that are largely dependent on vesicle and cytoskeleton dynamics. When hyphae differentiate structures for asexual or sexual reproduction or to mediate interspecies interactions, the hyphal basic cellular machinery may be reprogrammed through the synthesis of new proteins and/or the modification of protein activity. Although some transcriptional networks involved in such reprogramming of hyphae are well studied in several model filamentous fungi, clear connections between these networks and known determinants of hyphal morphogenesis are yet to be established.
Aggregation of α-synuclein (αSyn) plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae serves as reference cell to study the interplay between αSyn misfolding, cytotoxicity and post-translational modifications (PTMs). The synuclein family includes α, β and γ isoforms. β-synuclein (βSyn) and αSyn are found at presynaptic terminals and both proteins are presumably involved in disease pathogenesis. Similar to αSyn, expression of βSyn leads to growth deficiency and formation of intracellular aggregates in yeast. Co-expression of αSyn and βSyn exacerbates the cytotoxicity. This suggests an important role of βSyn homeostasis in PD pathology. We show here that the small ubiquitin-like modifier SUMO is an important determinant of protein stability and βSyn-induced toxicity in eukaryotic cells. Downregulation of sumoylation in a yeast strain, defective for the SUMO-encoding gene resulted in reduced yeast growth, whereas upregulation of sumoylation rescued growth of yeast cell expressing βSyn. This corroborates a protective role of the cellular sumoylation machinery against βSyn-induced toxicity. Upregulation of sumoylation significantly reduced βSyn aggregate formation. This is an indirect molecular process, which is not directly linked to βSyn sumoylation because amino acid substitutions in the lysine residues required for βSyn sumoylation decreased aggregation without changing yeast cellular toxicity. αSyn aggregates are more predominantly degraded by the autophagy/vacuole than by the 26S ubiquitin proteasome system. We demonstrate a vice versa situation for βSyn, which is mainly degraded in the 26S proteasome. Downregulation of sumoylation significantly compromised the clearance of βSyn by the 26S proteasome and increased protein stability. This effect is specific, because depletion of functional SUMO did neither affect βSyn aggregate formation nor its degradation by the autophagy/vacuolar pathway. Our data support that cellular βSyn toxicity and aggregation do not correlate in their cellular impact as for αSyn but rather represent two distinct independent molecular functions and molecular mechanisms. These insights into the relationship between βSyn-induced toxicity, aggregate formation and degradation demonstrate a significant distinction between the impact of αSyn compared to βSyn on eukaryotic cells.
BACKGROUND: Despite advances in immunosuppressive therapies, the rate of chronic transplant loss remains substantial. Organ injury involves various forms of cell death including apoptosis and necrosis. We now recognize that early injury of cardiac transplants involves a newly described form of programmed necrotic cell death, termed necroptosis. Because this involves receptor-interacting protein (RIP) kinase 1/3, this study aimed to establish the role of RIP3 in chronic cardiac allograft rejection.METHODS: We used major histocompatibility complex class II mismatched C57BL/6N (H-2; B6) or B6.RIP3 (H-2; RIP3) mice to B6.C-H-2 (H2-Ab1; bm12) mouse cardiac transplantation. Microvascular endothelial cells (MVEC) were developed from B6 and RIP3 cardiac grafts.RESULT: CD4 T cell-mediated cardiac graft rejection is inhibited using RIP3 deficient donor grafts, with reduced cellular infiltration and vasculopathy compared with wild type cardiac grafts. Alloreactive CD4 T cell-mediated MVEC death involves TNFα, Fas ligand (FasL) and granzyme B. Although necroptosis and release of danger molecule high-mobility group box 1 are eliminated by the absence of RIP3, CD4 T cells had attenuated MVEC death through granzyme B and FasL.CONCLUSIONS: CD4 T cell-mediated MVEC death involves in TNFα, FasL and granzyme B. Necroptotic cell death and release of the danger molecule may promote inflammatory responses and transplant rejection. Although loss of RIP3 does not eliminate alloimmune responses, chronic graft injury is reduced. RIP3 is an important therapeutic target but additional granzyme and caspases inhibition is required for sufficiently improving long-term graft survival.
Comment on    https://doi.org/10.1128/JB.00045-18.
Erratum in    Structure. 2018 Dec 4;26(12):1678.
Comment in    Lancet Oncol. 2018 May;19(5):583-584.
Tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs) are the primary sites of tumor antigen presentation, as well as the origin of metastasis in most cases. Hence, the type and function of immune cells in TDLNs are critical to the microenvironment and potentially affect the clinical outcome of the malignancy. CD8+CXCR5+ T cells are recently described to present high effector functions in infectious diseases, but their role in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear. In forty-four Stage III CRC patients, we examined the CD8+CXCR5+ T cells in blood, tumor, and TDLN. CD8+CXCR5+ T cells represented lass than 2% of CD3+ T cells in blood, but a much larger population in tumor. In TDLN, the CD8+CXCR5+ T cells represented the vast majority of CD8+ T cells and between 9.3% and 32.9% of CD3+ T cells. The prevalence of CD8+CXCR5+ T cells in tumor was not associated with their frequency in peripheral blood, but was positively correlated with their frequency in TDLN. The transcription of effector genes, including IFNG, TNF, IL2, PRF1, and GZMB, and exhaustion markers, including PD1, TIM3, 2B4, and LAG3, were examined in CD8+CXCR5+ T cells and CD8+CXCR5- T cells. With a few exceptions, CD8+CXCR5+ T cell presented significantly higher effector gene expression, and significantly lower exhaustion marker expression than their CXCR5- counterparts. In addition, the prognosis of CRC patients was positively associated with the frequency of TDLN CD8+CXCR5+ T cells, and with the expression of IFNG, PRF1, and GZMB expression by tumor and TDLN CD8+CXCR5+ T cells. Together, these results demonstrated that CD8+CXCR5+ T cells were significant participants of CRC-associated immunity and could potentially serve as therapeutic options.
Diatoms are the most dominant phytoplankton species in oceans and they continue to receive a great deal of attention because of their significant contributions in ecosystems and the environment. Due to triacylglycerol (TAG) profiles that are abundant in medium-chain fatty acids, diatoms have emerged to be better feed stocks for biofuel production, in comparison to the commonly studied green microalgal species (chlorophytes). Importantly, diatoms are also known for their high levels of the essential ω3 fatty acids, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and are considered to be a promising alternative source of these components. The two most commonly exploited diatoms include Thalassiosira pseudonana and Phaeodactylum tricornutum. Although obvious similarities between diatoms and chlorophytes exist, there are some substantial differences in their lipid metabolism. This review provides an overview on lipid metabolism in diatoms, with P. tricornutum as the most explored model. Special emphasis is placed on the synthesis and incorporation of very long chain ω3 fatty acids into lipids. Furthermore, current approaches including genetic engineering and biotechnological methods aimed at improving and maximizing lipid production in P. tricornutum are also discussed.
Utilization of energy-rich carbon sources such as glucose is fundamental to the evolutionary success of bacteria. Glucose can be catabolized via glycolysis for feeding the intermediary metabolism. The methylglyoxal synthase MgsA produces methylglyoxal from the glycolytic intermediate dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Methylglyoxal is toxic, requiring stringent regulation of MgsA activity. In the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis, an interaction with the phosphoprotein Crh controls MgsA activity. In the absence of preferred carbon sources, Crh is present in the nonphosphorylated state and binds to and thereby inhibits MgsA. To better understand the mechanism of regulation of MgsA, here we performed biochemical and structural analyses of B. subtilis MgsA and of its interaction with Crh. Our results indicated that MgsA forms a hexamer (i.e. a trimer of dimers) in the crystal structure, whereas it seems to exist in an equilibrium between a dimer and hexamer in solution. In the hexamer, two alternative dimers could be distinguished, but only one appeared to prevail in solution. Further analysis strongly suggested that the hexamer is the biologically active form. In vitro cross-linking studies revealed that Crh interacts with the N-terminal helices of MgsA and that the Crh-MgsA binding inactivates MgsA by distorting and thereby blocking its active site. In summary, our results indicate that dimeric and hexameric MgsA species exist in an equilibrium in solution, that the hexameric species is the active form, and that binding to Crh deforms and blocks the active site in MgsA.
BACKGROUND: Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is a critical cytoprotective enzyme that limits oxidative stress, inflammation, and cellular injury within the central nervous system (CNS) and other tissues. We previously demonstrated that HO-1 protein expression is decreased within the brains of HIV+ subjects and that this HO-1 reduction correlates with CNS immune activation and neurocognitive dysfunction. To define a potential CNS protective role for HO-1 against HIV, we analyzed a well-characterized HIV autopsy cohort for two common HO-1 promoter region polymorphisms that are implicated in regulating HO-1 promoter transcriptional activity, a (GT)n dinucleotide repeat polymorphism and a single nucleotide polymorphism (A(-413)T). Shorter HO-1 (GT)n repeats and the 'A' SNP allele associate with higher HO-1 promoter activity.METHODS: Brain dorsolateral prefrontal cortex tissue samples from an autopsy cohort of HIV-, HIV+, and HIV encephalitis (HIVE) subjects (n = 554) were analyzed as follows: HO-1 (GT)n polymorphism allele lengths were determined by PCR and capillary electrophoresis, A(-413)T SNP alleles were determined by PCR with allele specific probes, and RNA expression of selected neuroimmune markers was analyzed by quantitative PCR.RESULTS: HIV+ subjects with shorter HO-1 (GT)n alleles had a significantly lower risk of HIVE; however, shorter HO-1 (GT)n alleles did not correlate with CNS or peripheral viral loads. In HIV+ subjects without HIVE, shorter HO-1 (GT)n alleles associated significantly with lower expression of brain type I interferon response markers (MX1, ISG15, and IRF1) and T-lymphocyte activation markers (CD38 and GZMB). No significant correlations were found between the HO-1 (GT)n repeat length and brain expression of macrophage markers (CD163, CD68), endothelial markers (PECAM1, VWF), the T-lymphocyte marker CD8A, or the B-lymphocyte maker CD19. Finally, we found no significant associations between the A(-413)T SNP and HIVE diagnosis, HIV viral loads, or any neuroimmune markers.CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that an individual's HO-1 promoter region (GT)n polymorphism allele repeat length exerts unique modifying risk effects on HIV-induced CNS neuroinflammation and associated neuropathogenesis. Shorter HO-1 (GT)n alleles increase HO-1 promoter activity, which could provide neuroprotection through decreased neuroimmune activation. Therapeutic strategies that induce HO-1 expression could decrease HIV-associated CNS neuroinflammation and decrease the risk for development of HIV neurological disease.
BACKGROUND: Biotechnology enables the production of high-valued industrial feedstocks from plant seed oil. The plant-derived wax esters with long-chain monounsaturated acyl moieties, like oleyl oleate, have favorite properties for lubrication. For biosynthesis of wax esters using acyl-CoA substrates, expressions of a fatty acyl reductase (FAR) and a wax synthase (WS) in seeds are sufficient.RESULTS: For optimization of the enzymatic activity and subcellular localization of wax ester synthesis enzymes, two fusion proteins were created, which showed wax ester-forming activities in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. To promote the formation of oleyl oleate in seed oil, WSs from Acinetobactor baylyi (AbWSD1) and Marinobacter aquaeolei (MaWS2), as well as the two created fusion proteins were tested in Arabidopsis to evaluate their abilities and substrate preference for wax ester production. The tested seven enzyme combinations resulted in different yields and compositions of wax esters. Expression of a FAR of Marinobacter aquaeolei (MaFAR) with AbWSD1 or MaWS2 led to a high incorporation of C18 substrates in wax esters. The MaFAR/TMMmAWAT2-AbWSD1 combination resulted in the incorporation of more C18:1 alcohol and C18:0 acyl moieties into wax esters compared with MaFAR/AbWSD1. The fusion protein of a WS from Simmondsia chinensis (ScWS) with MaFAR exhibited higher specificity toward C20:1 substrates in preference to C18:1 substrates. Expression of MaFAR/AbWSD1 in the Arabidopsis fad2 fae1 double mutant resulted in the accumulation of oleyl oleate (18:1/18:1) in up to 62 mol% of total wax esters in seed oil, which was much higher than the 15 mol% reached by MaFAR/AbWSD1 in Arabidopsis Col-0 background. In order to increase the level of oleyl oleate in seed oil of Camelina, lines expressing MaFAR/ScWS were crossed with a transgenic high oleate line. The resulting plants accumulated up to >40 mg g seed-1 of wax esters, containing 27-34 mol% oleyl oleate.CONCLUSIONS: The overall yields and the compositions of wax esters can be strongly affected by the availability of acyl-CoA substrates and to a lesser extent, by the characteristics of wax ester synthesis enzymes. For synthesis of oleyl oleate in plant seed oil, appropriate wax ester synthesis enzymes with high catalytic efficiency and desired substrate specificity should be expressed in plant cells; meanwhile, high levels of oleic acid-derived substrates need to be supplied to these enzymes by modifying the fatty acid profile of developing seeds.
Whole-mount in situ hybridization (WMISH) is a common approach that is used to visualize spatial and temporal gene expression in embryos. In this process, digoxygenin-labeled antisense RNA is hybridized to the complementary transcript of interest and RNA hybrids are immunohistochemically detected using an alkaline phosphatase-conjugated antibody against digoxigenin. During Xenopus laevis oogenesis, certain RNAs localize to the animal or vegetal pole laying the foundation for germ cell development and germ layer formation of the future embryo. Here we present a WMISH protocol for Xenopus laevis oocytes allowing for the efficient detection of localized RNAs in a large number of oocytes during different stages of oogenesis. The application of this approach might be combined with microinjection of tagged reporter RNAs and/or a gain- or loss-of-function background, allowing for the functional analysis of single protein factors involved in RNA localization.
Mutations in DNA repair genes lead to increased genomic instability and mutation frequency. These mutations represent potential biomarkers for cancer immunotherapy efficacy, as high tumor mutational burden has been associated with increased neo-antigens and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes. While mismatch repair mutations have successfully predicted response to anti-PD-1 therapy in colorectal and other cancers, they have not yet been tested for lung cancer, and few have investigated genes from other DNA repair pathways. We utilized TCGA samples to comprehensively immunophenotype lung tumors and analyze the links between DNA repair mutations, neo-antigen and total mutational burden, and tumor immune infiltration. Overall, 73% of lung tumors contained infiltration by at least one T cell subset, with high mutational burden tumors containing significantly increased infiltration by activated CD4 and CD8 T cells. Further, mutations in mismatch repair genes, homologous recombination genes, or POLE accurately predicted increased tumor mutational burden, neo-antigen load, and T cell infiltration. Finally, neo-antigen load correlated with expression of M1-polarized macrophage genes, PD-1, PD-L1, IFNγ, GZMB, and FASLG, among other immune-related genes. Overall, after defining the immune infiltrate in lung tumors, we demonstrate the potential value of utilizing gene mutations from multiple DNA repair pathways as biomarkers for lung cancer immunotherapy.
Natural killer (NK) cells are members of the innate lymphoid cells group 1 (ILC1s), which play a critical role in innate host defense against viruses and malignancies. While many studies have examined the role of circulating peripheral blood (PB) CD56+ NK cells, little is known about the resident CD56+ cell population. Therefore, matched CD56+ cells from nasal lavage fluid (NLF) and PB of smokers and non-smokers were compared phenotypically, via flow cytometry, and functionally, via NK-cell specific gene expression. NLF and PB CD56+ cells had similar expression of CD56, but differentially expressed tissue residency (CD69 and CD103) and cytotoxicity (CD16) markers. In addition, NLF CD56dim cells expressed lower levels of cytotoxicity-associated genes, perforin (PRF1) and granzyme B (GZMB), and increased levels of cytokines and cell signaling molecules, TRAIL, IFNGR2, and IL8, as compared to PB CD56dim cells. In smokers, ITGA2 was downregulated in NLF CD56dim cells, while markers of cytotoxic function were primarily downregulated in PB CD56dim NK cells. Overall, NLF CD56dim cells are a unique cell population that likely play a role in orchestrating innate immune responses in the nasal cavity, which is distinct from their role as a non-antigen-restricted cytotoxic CD56dim lymphocytes in the PB.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable cancer characterized by the development of malignant plasma cells. The CD8 T cell-mediated cytotoxicity is considered a major player in antitumor immunity, but in MM patients, the CD8 T cells displayed senescence markers and were functionally impaired. To investigate whether cytotoxic CD4 T cells could act as a treatment alternative in MM, we examined the frequency and function of naturally occurring cytotoxic CD4 T cells in MM patients. The cytotoxic CD4 T cells were identified as granzyme-A, granzyme B-, and perforin-expressing CD4 T cells, and their frequencies were significantly upregulated in MM patients when compared with healthy controls. The frequencies of cytotoxic CD4 T cells in MM patients were not associated with the frequencies of cytotoxic CD8 T cells, but were negatively associated with disease severity. Interestingly, the expression levels of inhibitory molecules, including PD-1 and CTLA-4, were significantly lower in cytotoxic CD4 T cells than in cytotoxic CD8 T cells. When co-incubated with autologous CD38+CD138+ plasma cells, CD4 T cells were capable of eliminating plasma cells with varying degrees of efficacy. In MM patients, the frequency of circulating plasma cells was negatively correlated with the frequency of cytotoxic CD4 T cells. Therefore, CD4 T cell-mediated cytotoxicity existed naturally in MM patients and could potentially act as an option in antitumor therapies.
Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are a well-characterized innate-like T cell population abundant in the human liver, peripheral tissues and blood. MAIT cells serve in the first line of defense against infections, through engagement of their T cell receptor, which recognizes microbial metabolites presented on MR1, and through cytokine-mediated triggering. Typically, they show a quiescent memory phenotype but can undergo rapid upregulation of effector functions including cytolysis upon stimulation. T cells profoundly change their cellular metabolism during their maturation and activation. We sought to determine how MAIT cell metabolism may facilitate both the long-term memory phase in tissue and the transition to rapid effector function. Here, we show, by flow cytometric metabolism assays and extracellular flux analysis that, despite an effector-memory profile, human MAIT cells are metabolically quiescent in a resting state comparable to naïve and central memory T cells. Upon stimulation, they rapidly increase uptake of glucose and show a concomitant upregulation of the effector molecules notably granzyme B, which is impaired by inhibition of glycolysis with 2-deoxyglucose. These findings suggest that MAIT cells share some metabolic characteristics of both resting and effector T cell subsets, with a rapid transition upon triggering. Metabolic programming of this cell type may be of interest in understanding and modulating their function in infectious diseases and cancer.
Current knowledge about liver responses to blood-stage malaria and their modulation by vaccination is still unclear. This study investigated effects of protective vaccination on liver gene and lincRNA expression of Balb/c mice at early prepatency of Plasmodium chabaudi blood-stage malaria. When a blood-stage vaccine was used to induce > 80% survival of otherwise lethal malaria, significant differences (p < 0.01) were detectable in global liver gene expression between vaccination-protected (potentially surviving) and non-protected non-vaccinated mice on day 1 p.i.. In the livers of protected mice, gene expression microarrays identified 224 and 419 genes, whose expression was up- and downregulated by > 3-fold, respectively. There were 24 genes upregulated by > 10-fold, including 10 IFN-inducible genes encompassing GTPases Irgm1, 2, and 3, and guanylate-binding protein Gbp11, the IL-1 decoy receptors Il1f9 and Il1ra1, the Il6 gene, and the gene for facilitated glucose transportation. Moreover, the IL-18 decoy receptor gene Il18bp, Gzmb, the genes Lif and Osmr encoding proteins of the IL-6 family, and the taurine transporter gene Slc6a6 were expressed > 3-fold in vaccinated mice. The genes Gbp10, 6, 4 were expressed by > 50% in vaccination-protected than in non-vaccinated mice. In addition, 43 lincRNA species were up- and 36 downregulated. Our data suggested novel regulatory elements of potential anti-malaria activity activated by protective vaccination in the liver, evidenced in response to early prepatent infections in vaccination-protected mice of otherwise lethal blood-stage malaria of P. chabaudi.
The transition from vegetative growth to multicellular development represents an evolutionary hallmark linked to an oxidative stress signal and controlled protein degradation. We identified the Sem1 proteasome subunit, which connects stress response and cellular differentiation. The sem1 gene encodes the fungal counterpart of the human Sem1 proteasome lid subunit and is essential for fungal cell differentiation and development. A sem1 deletion strain of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans is able to grow vegetatively and expresses an elevated degree of 20S proteasomes with multiplied ATP-independent catalytic activity compared to wildtype. Oxidative stress induces increased transcription of the genes sem1 and rpn11 for the proteasomal deubiquitinating enzyme. Sem1 is required for stabilization of the Rpn11 deubiquitinating enzyme, incorporation of the ubiquitin receptor Rpn10 into the 19S regulatory particle and efficient 26S proteasome assembly. Sem1 maintains high cellular NADH levels, controls mitochondria integrity during stress and developmental transition.
Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) is a potentially curative therapy for hematologic malignancies. Donor T cells are able to eliminate residual tumor cells after allo-HCT, producing the beneficial graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effect, but can also cause graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) when attacking host normal tissues. We previously reported that granzyme B (GzmB) is involved in activation-induced cell death (AICD) of donor T cells and exerts differential impacts on GVHD and GVT effect. Serine protease inhibitor 6 (Spi6) is the sole endogenous inhibitor of GzmB that can protect immune and tissue cells against GzmB-mediated damage. This study is aimed to delineate the mechanism by which the GzmB-Spi6 axis regulates allogeneic T cell response. Using multiple clinically relevant murine allo-HCT models, we have found that Spi6 is concentrated in mitochondria during allogeneic T cell activation, while Spi6-/- T cells exhibit abnormal mitochondrial membrane potential, mass, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and increased GzmB-dependent AICD mainly in the form of fratricide. Compared with WT T cells, Spi6-/- T cells exhibit decreased expansion in the host and cause significantly reduced GVHD. Notably, however, Spi6-/- T cells demonstrate the same level of GVT activity as WT T cells, which were confirmed by two independent tumor models. In summary, our findings demonstrate that Spi6 plays a novel and critical role in maintaining the integrity of T cell mitochondrial function during allogeneic response, and suggest that disabling Spi6 in donor T cells may represent a novel strategy that can alleviate GVHD without sacrificing the beneficial GVT effect.
Inhibition of immune checkpoints programmed death 1 (PD-1) and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) on T cells results in durable antitumor activity in melanoma patients. Despite high frequency of melanoma brain metastases (BrM) and associated poor prognosis, the activity and mechanisms of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) in metastatic tumors that develop within the "immune specialized" brain microenvironment, remain elusive. We established a melanoma tumor transplantation model with intracranial plus extracranial (subcutaneous) tumor, mimicking the clinically observed coexistence of metastases inside and outside the brain. Strikingly, intracranial ICI efficacy was observed only when extracranial tumor was present. Extracranial tumor was also required for ICI-induced increase in CD8+ T cells, macrophages, and microglia in brain tumors, and for up-regulation of immune-regulatory genes. Combined PD-1/CTLA-4 blockade had a superior intracranial efficacy over the two monotherapies. Cell depletion studies revealed that NK cells and CD8+ T cells were required for intracranial anti-PD-1/anti-CTLA-4 efficacy. Rather than enhancing CD8+ T cell activation and expansion within intracranial tumors, PD-1/CTLA-4 blockade dramatically (∼14-fold) increased the trafficking of CD8+ T cells to the brain. This was mainly through the peripheral expansion of homing-competent effector CD8+ T cells and potentially further enhanced through up-regulation of T cell entry receptors intercellular adhesion molecule 1 and vascular adhesion molecule 1 on tumor vasculature. Our study indicates that extracranial activation/release of CD8+ T cells from PD-1/CTLA-4 inhibition and potentiation of their recruitment to the brain are paramount to the intracranial anti-PD-1/anti-CTLA-4 activity, suggesting augmentation of these processes as an immune therapy-enhancing strategy in metastatic brain cancer.
The study aimed to seek potential biomarkers for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) detection and treatment.The dataset GSE48060 was used, consisting of 52 peripheral blood samples (31 AMI samples and 21 normal controls). By limma package, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between 2 kinds of samples were identified, followed by enrichment analysis, subpathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, and transcription factor network (TFN) analysis. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis was used to further extract key modules relating to AMI, followed by enrichment and TFN analyses. Expression validation was performed via meta-analysis of 2 datasets, GSE22229 and GSE29111.A set of 428 DEGs in AMI were screened out, and the upregulated toll-like receptor (TLR) family genes (TLR1, TLR2, and TLR10) were enriched in wound response, immune response and inflammatory response functions, and downregulated genes (GBP5, CXCL5, GZMA, CCL5, and CCL4) were correlated with immune response. CCL5, GZMA, GZMB, TLR2, and formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR1) were predicted as crucial nodes in the PPI network. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) was the key transcription factor (TF) with multiple targets. The grey module was highly related to AMI. Genes in this module were closely related to regulation of macrophage activation, and spermatogenic leucine zipper 1 (SPZ1) was identified as a TF. Expressions of TLR2 and FPR1 were confirmed via the integrated matrix.Several potential biomarkers for AMI detection were identified, such as GZMB, GBP5, FPR1, TLR2, STAT1, and SPZ1. They might exert their functions via regulation of immune and inflammation responses. Genes in grey module play significant roles in AMI via regulation of macrophage activation.
BACKGROUND: Functional variants of the B cell gene, B cell scaffold protein with ankyrin repeats 1 (BANK1) contribute to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) susceptibility, but their influences on B cell responses are unclear. Moreover, the function of induced T regulatory cells (iTregs) in the inflammatory milieu in a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model is unknown. This study was performed to investigate the roles of BANK1 in CIA and the interaction between B cells and iTregs.METHODS: The changes in BANK1 mRNA and protein levels and their correlation with disease severity in CIA were determined. Next, the antigen-presenting function and autoantibody production in B cells were evaluated by co-culture with effector T cells and iTregs, respectively, both in vitro and in vivo. Then, the mechanisms underlying these interactions were studied by adding neutralizing antibodies or transwell inserts and by adoptive transfer to B-cell-depleted CIA mice.RESULTS: The BANK1 level decreased in the peripheral blood, spleen and lymph nodes of CIA mice, particularly during the acute stage of arthritis, and exhibited negative correlation with disease severity and autoantibody production. B cell responses were enhanced by this decrease. B cells from CIA mice (CIA-B cells) promoted iTreg differentiation, proliferation and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein-4 (CTLA-4) expression. Meanwhile, BANK1 expression in CIA-B cells increased after co-culture with iTregs, limiting B cell responses. All these interactions depended on cell contact with CTLA-4-overexpressing iTregs but were independent of CTLA-4 cytokine.CONCLUSION: Decreased BANK1 expression promotes B cell responses, resulting in an increased antigen presentation ability and autoantibody production that subsequently influences the communication between B cells and iTregs through a cell-contact-dependent and CTLA-4- cytokine-independent mechanism in CIA mice.
Drosophila melanogaster head development represents a valuable process to study the developmental control of various organs, such as the antennae, the dorsal ocelli and the compound eyes from a common precursor, the eye-antennal imaginal disc. While the gene regulatory network underlying compound eye development has been extensively studied, the key transcription factors regulating the formation of other head structures from the same imaginal disc are largely unknown. We obtained the developmental transcriptome of the eye-antennal discs covering late patterning processes at the late 2nd larval instar stage to the onset and progression of differentiation at the end of larval development. We revealed the expression profiles of all genes expressed during eye-antennal disc development and we determined temporally co-expressed genes by hierarchical clustering. Since co-expressed genes may be regulated by common transcriptional regulators, we combined our transcriptome dataset with publicly available ChIP-seq data to identify central transcription factors that co-regulate genes during head development. Besides the identification of already known and well-described transcription factors, we show that the transcription factor Hunchback (Hb) regulates a significant number of genes that are expressed during late differentiation stages. We confirm that hb is expressed in two polyploid subperineurial glia cells (carpet cells) and a thorough functional analysis shows that loss of Hb function results in a loss of carpet cells in the eye-antennal disc. Additionally, we provide for the first time functional data indicating that carpet cells are an integral part of the blood-brain barrier. Eventually, we combined our expression data with a de novo Hb motif search to reveal stage specific putative target genes of which we find a significant number indeed expressed in carpet cells.
We previously reported that CD8+ T cells in human gastrointestinal mucosa exhibit reduced perforin expression and weak or impaired cytotoxic capacity compared with their counterparts in blood. Nevertheless, these cells degranulate and express cytokines and chemokines in response to cognate Ag. In addition to weak expression of perforin, earlier studies suggested differential regulation of perforin and granzymes (Gzms), with GzmA and B expressed by significantly higher percentages of mucosal CD8+ T cells than perforin. However, this topic has not been fully explored. The goal of this study was to elucidate the expression and coexpression patterns of GzmA, B, and K in conjunction with perforin in rectosigmoid CD8+ T cells during HIV-1 infection. We found that expression of both perforin and GzmB, but not GzmA or GzmK, was reduced in mucosa compared with blood. A large fraction of rectosigmoid CD8+ T cells either did not express Gzms or were single-positive for GzmA. Rectosigmoid CD8+ T cells appeared skewed toward cytokine production rather than cytotoxic responses, with cells expressing multiple cytokines and chemokines generally lacking in perforin and Gzm expression. These data support the interpretation that perforin and Gzms are differentially regulated, and display distinct expression patterns in blood and rectosigmoid T cells. These studies may help inform the development of strategies to combat HIV-1 and other mucosal pathogens.
Accumulation of oxidized amino acids, including methionine, has been implicated in aging. The ability to reduce one of the products of methionine oxidation, free methionine-R-sulfoxide (Met-R-SO), is widespread in microorganisms, but during evolution this function, conferred by the enzyme fRMsr, was lost in metazoa. We examined whether restoration of the fRMsr function in an animal can alleviate the consequences of methionine oxidation. Ectopic expression of yeast fRMsr supported the ability of Drosophila to catalyze free Met-R-SO reduction without affecting fecundity, food consumption, and response to starvation. fRMsr expression also increased resistance to oxidative stress. Moreover, it extended lifespan of flies in a methionine-dependent manner. Thus, expression of an oxidoreductase lost during evolution can enhance metabolic and redox functions and lead to an increase in lifespan in an animal model. More broadly, our study exposes the potential of a combination of genetic and nutritional strategies in lifespan control.
PURPOSE: Studies of cytotoxic T cells and their respective lineage master regulators have been limited in Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). It is unclear whether their transcriptomes are changed in HT patients and how these changes are associated with the thyroid damage, major clinical manifestations, and disease progression.METHODS: We explored the gene expression patterns of selected transcription factors [eomesodermin (EOMES), BACH2, BCL6, TCF1] and cytolytic molecules [granzyme B (GZMB)] in peripheral blood (PB) T cells of 10 healthy controls and 30 HT patients of various subtypes (hypothyroid, untreated HT; L-thyroxine (T4)-treated HT, and spontaneously euthyroid HT) using real-time quantitative PCR.RESULTS: EOMES (Mann-Whitney P = 0.044), GZMB (P = 0.028), and BCL6 mRNA (P = 0.001) were overrepresented in PB T cells from HT and showed levels varying by age, thyroid volume and disease severity. BCL6 transcripts were predominantly enriched in severely affected, hypothyroid cases, both on and off LT4. Increased EOMES RNA expression was associated with advancing age, lower thyroid volumes and higher peak adjusted TSH levels over the course of the disease. The body mass-adjusted, steady-state maintenance dose of LT4 increased with GZMB and BCL6 levels in PB T cells of hypothyroid cases, mostly postmenopausal women having long-standing, non-goitrous and atrophic disease form.CONCLUSIONS: Our exploratory results suggest a role for GZMB, EOMES, and BCL6 in the context of HT, thyroid injury, and aggressive/advanced disease forms. Functions enriched within differentially expressed transcripts could be an important new target in understanding the pathogenesis of HT.
In lamellar keratoplasty, the diseased part of a cornea is replaced while the healthy tissue remains lamellar keratoplasty has the advantage of better graft survival compared to penetrating keratoplasty (PK). We compared the immunological responses to PK and anterior lamellar keratoplasty (ALK) in a murine model. PK or ALK was performed using C57BL/6 donor grafts and BALB/c recipients, and graft opacity was assessed to evaluate graft rejection up to 8 weeks. We evaluated the immunological responses in both groups, which were not clinically considered as graft failure on postoperative day 21. PK mice showed reduced clinical graft survival compared to ALK mice. The mRNA expression of inflammatory mediators, such as IL-1β, IFN-γ, and granzyme B, in grafted corneas of PK mice, was significantly increased compared to the levels in ALK mice at postoperative day 21. PK led to a higher delayed-type hypersensitivity response and IFN-γ secretion in an in vitro T cell assay from draining lymph nodes (LNs), as compared to ALK. Furthermore, PK showed increased angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis in grafted corneas compared to ALK and led to greater infiltration of CD3+ T cells into grafted corneas and increased frequencies of mature antigen presenting cells (APC; MHC-IIhighCD11c + cells) and IL-12 + dendritic cells (DCs) in the draining LNs of transplanted mice. In conclusion, PK results in increased graft rejection compared to ALK through relatively increased neovascularization and lymphangiogenesis, which can induce infiltration of pathologic T cells and mature APC migration into grafted corneas and draining LNs.
The knirps (kni) locus encodes transcription factors required for induction of the L2 wing vein in Drosophila. Here, we employ diverse CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing tools to generate a series of targeted lesions within the endogenous cis-regulatory module (CRM) required for kni expression in the L2 vein primordium. Phenotypic analysis of these 'in locus' mutations based on both expression of Kni protein and adult wing phenotypes, reveals novel unexpected features of L2-CRM function including evidence for a chromosome pairing-dependent process that promotes transcription. We also demonstrate that self-propagating active genetic elements (CopyCat elements) can efficiently delete and replace the L2-CRM with orthologous sequences from other divergent fly species. Wing vein phenotypes resulting from these trans-species enhancer replacements parallel features of the respective donor fly species. This highly sensitive phenotypic readout of enhancer function in a native genomic context reveals novel features of CRM function undetected by traditional reporter gene analysis.
The immune checkpoint ligand PD-L1 and the transmembrane mucin MUC1 are upregulated in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), where they contribute to its aggressive pathogenesis. Here, we report that genetic or pharmacological targeting of the oncogenic MUC1 subunit MUC1-C is sufficient to suppress PD-L1 expression in TNBC cells. Mechanistic investigations showed that MUC1-C acted to elevate PD-L1 transcription by recruitment of MYC and NF-κB p65 to the PD-L1 promoter. In an immunocompetent model of TNBC in which Eo771/MUC1-C cells were engrafted into MUC1 transgenic mice, we showed that targeting MUC1-C associated with PD-L1 suppression, increases in tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells and tumor cell killing. MUC1 expression in TNBCs also correlated inversely with CD8, CD69, and GZMB, and downregulation of these markers associated with decreased survival. Taken together, our findings show how MUC1 contributes to immune escape in TNBC, and they offer a rationale to target MUC1-C as a novel immunotherapeutic approach for TNBC treatment.Significance: These findings show how upregulation of the transmembrane mucin MUC1 contributes to immune escape in an aggressive form of breast cancer, with potential implications for a novel immunotherapeutic approach. Cancer Res; 78(1); 205-15. ©2017 AACR.
Genetic factors in endometrium are likely to be involved in the embryo implantation failure (IF), one of the major limiting factors in the success of in vitro fertilization (IVF). In this study, we aimed to identify critical genes from the transcriptional profile for the establishment of the endometrial receptivity which supporting the normal pregnancy. Three GEO datasets, including 12 samples of IF and 12 samples of controls, were used for the meta-analysis. We identified 182 different expression genes (DEGs) by comparing IF with controls and present here the successful clustering according to sample type, not by the origin. The gene ontology (GO) enriched analysis demonstrated the significant downregulation in activation and regulation of inflammatory and immune response in IF patients. Furthermore, network analysis of down-regulated genes identified the significant hub genes containing GADD45A (growth arrest and DNA damage inducible alpha, Degree = 77), GZMB (granzyme B, Degree = 38) and NLRP2 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 2, Degree = 37). The lower expression of NLRP2, related to inflammatory responses with the most degree in the network, was validatied by other GEO data. Besides, it was confirmed that the NLRP2 could act as a predictor for pregnancy after IVF (AUC = 87.93%; sensitivity, 60.00%; specificity, 91.30% ). Our meta-analysis will help us to better understand the molecular regulation of endometrial receptivity, and guiding further line of treatment for IF during IVF.
Granzyme B (GzmB) is a serine protease emerging as an important mediator of skin injury, inflammation and repair. Found at low levels in healthy skin, GzmB is dramatically elevated in chronic disease and inflammatory skin disorders, including diabetic ulcers, hypertrophic scarring, autoimmune skin disorders, cutaneous leishmaniasis and aging skin. Traditionally known for its pro-apoptotic function, the role of GzmB in disease has been redefined due to the discovery of additional activities involving the cleavage of extracellular matrix proteins, epithelial barrier disruption, fibrosis, vascular permeability, anoikis, inflammation and autoimmunity. In addition to the accumulation of GzmB+ cells in diseased tissue, and critical to the mechanistic redefinition, is the realization that GzmB often accumulates in the extracellular milieu, retains its activity in plasma, and is expressed by both immune and non-immune cells that may or may not express perforin, the pore-forming protein required for GzmB internalization into target cells. As GzmB is not normally found in the extracellular milieu, and does not appear to be regulated, GzmB-mediated proteolysis can impact processes such as tissue remodelling, barrier function, autoantigen generation and angiogenesis. The present review will summarize and critically examine the current knowledge regarding GzmB in inflammatory skin disease, providing an overview of both apoptotic and extracellular mechanisms, but with a focus on the extracellular roles of GzmB in skin health and disease.
Bacteria are able to prioritize preferred carbon sources from complex mixtures. This is achieved by the regulatory phenomenon of carbon catabolite repression. To allow the simultaneous utilization of multiple carbon sources and to prevent the time-consuming adaptation to each individual nutrient in biotechnological applications, mutants lacking carbon catabolite repression can be used. However, such mutants often exhibit pleiotropic growth defects. We have isolated and characterized mutations that overcome the growth defect of Bacillus subtilis ccpA mutants lacking the major regulator of catabolite repression, in particular their glutamate auxotrophy. Here we show, that distinct mutations affecting the essential DNA topoisomerase I (TopA) cause glutamate prototrophy of the ccpA mutant. These suppressing variants of the TopA enzyme exhibit increased activity resulting in enhanced relaxation of the DNA. Reduced DNA supercoiling results in enhanced expression of the gltAB operon encoding the biosynthetic glutamate synthase. This is achieved by a significant re-organization of the global transcription network accompanied by re-routing of metabolism, which results in inactivation of the glutamate dehydrogenase. Our results provide a link between DNA topology, the global transcriptional network, and glutamate metabolism and suggest that specific topA mutants may be well suited for biotechnological purposes.
OBJECTIVE: Testosterone depletion induces increased germ cell apoptosis in testes. However, limited studies exist on genes that regulate the germ cell apoptosis. Granzymes (GZM) are serine proteases that induce apoptosis in various tissues. Multiple granzymes, including GZMA, GZMB and GZMN, are present in testes. Th us, we investigated which granzyme may be testosterone responsive and possibly may have a role in germ cell apoptosis aft er testosterone depletion.METHODS: Ethylene dimethane sulfonate (EDS), a toxicant that selectively ablates the Leydig cells, was injected into rats to withdraw the testosterone. The testosterone depletion effects after 7 days post-EDS were verified by replacing the testosterone exogenously into EDS-treated rats. Serum or testicular testosterone was measured by radioimmunoassay. Using qPCR, mRNAs of granzyme variants in testes were quantified. The germ cell apoptosis was identified by TUNEL assay and the localization of GZMK was by immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: EDS treatment eliminated the Leydig cells and depleted serum and testicular testosterone. At 7 days post-EDS, testis weights were reduced 18% with increased germ cell apoptosis plus elevation GZMK expression. GZMK was not associated with TUNEL-positive cells, but was localized to stripped cytoplasm of spermatids. In addition, apoptotic round spermatids were observed in the caput epididymis.CONCLUSIONS: GZMK expression in testes is testosterone dependent. GZMK is located adjacent to germ cells in seminiferous tubules and the presence of apoptotic round spermatids in the epididymis suggest its role in the degradation of microtubules in ectoplasmic specializations. Thus, overexpression of GZMK may indirectly regulate germ cell apoptosis by premature release of round spermatids from seminiferous tubule lumen.
CD8+ T lymphocytes mediate potent immune responses against tumor, but the role of human CD4+ T cell subsets in cancer immunotherapy remains ill-defined. Herein, we exhibit that CD26 identifies three T helper subsets with distinct immunological properties in both healthy individuals and cancer patients. Although CD26neg T cells possess a regulatory phenotype, CD26int T cells are mainly naive and CD26high T cells appear terminally differentiated and exhausted. Paradoxically, CD26high T cells persist in and regress multiple solid tumors following adoptive cell transfer. Further analysis revealed that CD26high cells have a rich chemokine receptor profile (including CCR2 and CCR5), profound cytotoxicity (Granzyme B and CD107A), resistance to apoptosis (c-KIT and Bcl2), and enhanced stemness (β-catenin and Lef1). These properties license CD26high T cells with a natural capacity to traffic to, regress and survive in solid tumors. Collectively, these findings identify CD4+ T cell subsets with properties critical for improving cancer immunotherapy.
NK cell activation has been shown to be metabolically regulated in vitro; however, the role of metabolism during in vivo NK cell responses to infection is unknown. We examined the role of glycolysis in NK cell function during murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) infection and the ability of IL-15 to prime NK cells during CMV infection. The glucose metabolism inhibitor 2-deoxy-ᴅ-glucose (2DG) impaired both mouse and human NK cell cytotoxicity following priming in vitro. Similarly, MCMV-infected mice treated with 2DG had impaired clearance of NK-specific targets in vivo, which was associated with higher viral burden and susceptibility to infection on the C57BL/6 background. IL-15 priming is known to alter NK cell metabolism and metabolic requirements for activation. Treatment with the IL-15 superagonist ALT-803 rescued mice from otherwise lethal infection in an NK-dependent manner. Consistent with this, treatment of a patient with ALT-803 for recurrent CMV reactivation after hematopoietic cell transplant was associated with clearance of viremia. These studies demonstrate that NK cell-mediated control of viral infection requires glucose metabolism and that IL-15 treatment in vivo can reduce this requirement and may be effective as an antiviral therapy.
Plant oxylipins form a constantly growing group of signaling molecules that comprise oxygenated fatty acids and metabolites derived therefrom. In the last decade, the understanding of biosynthesis, metabolism, and action of oxylipins, especially jasmonates, has dramatically improved. Additional mechanistic insights into the action of enzymes and insights into signaling pathways have been deepened for jasmonates. For other oxylipins, such as the hydroxy fatty acids, individual signaling properties and cross talk between different oxylipins or even with additional phytohormones have recently been described. This review summarizes recent understanding of the biosynthesis, regulation, and function of oxylipins.
The three mitochondrial-encoded proteins, COX1, COX2, and COX3, form the core of the cytochrome c oxidase. Upon synthesis, COX2 engages with COX20 in the inner mitochondrial membrane, a scaffold protein that recruits metallochaperones for copper delivery to the CuA-Site of COX2. Here we identified the human protein, TMEM177 as a constituent of the COX20 interaction network. Loss or increase in the amount of TMEM177 affects COX20 abundance leading to reduced or increased COX20 levels respectively. TMEM177 associates with newly synthesized COX2 and SCO2 in a COX20-dependent manner. Our data shows that by unbalancing the amount of TMEM177, newly synthesized COX2 accumulates in a COX20-associated state. We conclude that TMEM177 promotes assembly of COX2 at the level of CuA-site formation.
Verticillium species represent economically important phytopathogenic fungi with bacteria as natural rhizosphere antagonists. Growth inhibition patterns of Verticillium in different media were compared to saprophytic Aspergillus strains and were significantly more pronounced in various co-cultivations with different Pseudomonas strains. The Brassica napus rhizosphere bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens DSM8569 is able to inhibit growth of rapeseed (Verticillium longisporum) or tomato (Verticillium dahliae) pathogens without the potential for phenazine or 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (DAPG) mycotoxin biosynthesis. Bacterial inhibition of Verticillium growth remained even after the removal of pseudomonads from co-cultures. Fungal growth response in the presence of the bacterium is independent of the fungal control genes of secondary metabolism LAE1 and CSN5. The phenazine producer P. fluorescens 2-79 (P_phen) inhibits Verticillium growth especially on high glucose solid agar surfaces. Additional phenazine-independent mechanisms in the same strain are able to reduce fungal surface growth in the presence of pectin and amino acids. The DAPG-producing Pseudomonas protegens CHA0 (P_DAPG), which can also produce hydrogen cyanide or pyoluteorin, has an additional inhibitory potential on fungal growth, which is independent of these antifungal compounds, but which requires the bacterial GacA/GacS control system. This translational two-component system is present in many Gram-negative bacteria and coordinates the production of multiple secondary metabolites. Our data suggest that pseudomonads pursue different media-dependent strategies that inhibit fungal growth. Metabolites such as phenazines are able to completely inhibit fungal surface growth in the presence of glucose, whereas GacA/GacS controlled inhibitors provide the same fungal growth effect on pectin/amino acid agar.
We have previously reported the molecular signature of murine pathogenic TH17 cells that induce experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in animals. Here we show that human peripheral blood IFN-γ+IL-17+ (TH1/17) and IFN-γ-IL-17+ (TH17) CD4+ T cells display distinct transcriptional profiles in high-throughput transcription analyses. Compared to TH17 cells, TH1/17 cells have gene signatures with marked similarity to mouse pathogenic TH17 cells. Assessing 15 representative signature genes in patients with multiple sclerosis, we find that TH1/17 cells have elevated expression of CXCR3 and reduced expression of IFNG, CCL3, CLL4, GZMB, and IL10 compared to healthy controls. Moreover, higher expression of IL10 in TH17 cells is found in clinically stable vs. active patients. Our results define the molecular signature of human pro-inflammatory TH17 cells, which can be used to both identify pathogenic TH17 cells and to measure the effect of treatment on TH17 cells in human autoimmune diseases.
Cigarette smoke contains toxic and carcinogenic substances that contribute to the development of cancer and various diseases. Genetic variation might be important, because not all smokers develop smoking-related disease. The current study addressed the possible interactions among selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes related to systemic inflammation, smoking status, the levels of circulating immune response cells and plasma biomarkers of systemic inflammation. Sixty-four healthy blood donors were recruited, 31 of whom were current smokers and 33 were never-users of tobacco products, references. Compared to references, the smokers showed significantly increased levels of circulating total white blood cells, lymphocytes, monocytes, neutrophils, basophils and C-reactive protein (CRP). Smokers also more frequently exhibited circulating cell phenotypes that are associated with an immunocompromised state: CD8dim cells in the lymphocyte group, CD13+  CD11+ , CD13+  CD14+ , CD13+  CD56+ cells in the monocyte group and CD13+  CD11+ , CD13+  CD56+ cells in the neutrophil group. We observed an interaction among SNPs, smoking status and some of the studied biomarkers. The average plasma CRP level was significantly higher among the smokers, with the highest level found among those with the CRP rs1800947 CC genotype. Additionally, an increased CD8+  GZB+ cells in the CD8dim group were found among smokers with the GZB rs8192917 AA genotype. Thus, smoking appears to be associated with systemic inflammation and increased levels of circulating immunosuppressive cells. The extent of these effects was associated with SNPs among the smokers. This observation may contribute to a better understanding of the genetic susceptibility of smoking-related disease and the variations observed in clinical outcomes.
Cerebral malaria is a complex, acute, neurological disease characterised by a sudden onset of cerebral symptoms. This disease is manifested as initial arousable stage that is followed by an unarousable coma and eventually death. Parasite burden and CD8+ T cell count in the brain determines the disease outcome. Cytotoxic CD8+ T cell-derived Granzyme-b is required for the development of experimental cerebral malaria (ECM), but the mechanism of pathogenesis is not known. Here, we show that CD8+ T cells infiltrate in to the brain during ECM releasing Granzyme-b that is cytotoxic to neuronal cells. Granzyme-b kills neuronal cells through direct cytotoxicity and also by activating neuronal caspase-3 and calpain1 via cytoskeletal breakdown. Our results showed the increased expression of cell adhesion molecules and chemokine receptors in the brain and their associated infiltration of T cells during ECM.
BACKGROUND: CD8+ T cells and natural killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic cells that use granzyme B (GrB) and perforin. Defective cytotoxic function is known to play a role in dysregulated immune response as seen in chronic sinusitis, also referred to as chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS). However, to our knowledge, in the United States, neither GrB or perforin expression has been reported in patients with CRS.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate sinonasal cytotoxic cells, their mediators, and cell-specific distribution of these mediators in patients with CRS with nasal polyp (CRSwNP) and in patients with CRS without nasal polyp (CRSsNP).METHODS: Blood and sinus tissue samples were taken from patients with CRSsNP (n = 8) and CRSwNP (n = 8) at the time of surgery. Control subjects (n = 8) underwent surgery for cerebrospinal fluid leak repair or to remove non-hormone-secreting pituitary tumors. The cells were analyzed via flow cytometry by using CD8 expression to identify cytotoxic T cells and CD56 expression to identify NK cells. Intracellular GrB and perforin expression were analyzed with flow cytometry.RESULTS: We observed no significant differences in plasma or peripheral blood immune cell numbers or specific levels of GrB or perforin among the groups. In the sinonasal mucosa of the patients with CRSsNP and the patients with CRSwNP, there was a significant decrease in GrB and perforin levels (p < 0.05) despite similar or increased numbers of cytotoxic cells when compared with the controls. The overall decrease in GrB and perforin in the sinonasal mucosa of the patients with CRSsNP and the patients with CRSwNP was due to decreased T cell production. There was no difference in total NK cell count or expression of perforin or GrB among all the groups.CONCLUSION: Total levels of sinonasal GrB and perforin were decreased in the sinonasal mucosa of both the patients with CRSwNP and the patients with CRSsNP compared with the controls, whereas sinonasal CD8+ T cells, (but not NK cells,), intracellular stores of GrB and perforin were reduced in the patients with CRSwNP compared with the controls.
Zinc finger transcription factors of the Sp6-9 group are evolutionarily conserved in all metazoans and have important functions in, e.g., limb formation and heart development. The function of Sp6-9-related genes has been studied in a number of vertebrates and invertebrates, but data from chelicerates (spiders and allies) was lacking so far. We have isolated the ortholog of Sp6-9 from the common house spider Parasteatoda tepidariorum and the cellar spider Pholcus phalangioides. We show that the Sp6-9 gene in these spider species is expressed in the developing appendages thus suggesting a conserved role in limb formation. Indeed, RNAi with Sp6-9 in P. tepidariorum leads not only to strong limb defects, but also to the loss of body segments and head defects in more strongly affected animals. Together with a new expression domain in the early embryo, these data suggest that Sp6-9 has a dual role P. tepidariorum. The early role in head and body segment formation is not known from other arthropods, but the role in limb formation is evolutionarily highly conserved.
Serum albumin (SA) is the most abundant protein in plasma and is the main transporter of molecules in the circulatory system of all vertebrates, with applications in medicine, the pharmaceutical industry and molecular biology. It is known that albumins from different organisms vary in sequence; thus, it is important to know the impact of the amino-acid sequence on the three-dimensional structure and ligand-binding properties. Here, crystal structures of ovine (OSA) and caprine (CSA) serum albumins, isolated from sheep and goat blood, are described, as well those of their complexes with 3,5-diiodosalicylic acid (DIS): OSA-DIS (2.20 Å resolution) and CSA-DIS (1.78 Å resolution). The ligand-free OSA structure was determined in the trigonal space group P3221 at 2.30 Å resolution, while that of CSA in the orthorhombic space group P212121 was determined at 1.94 Å resolution. Both albumins are also capable of crystallizing in the triclinic space group P1, giving isostructural crystals that diffract to around 2.5 Å resolution. A comparison of OSA and CSA with the closely related bovine serum albumin (BSA) shows both similarities and differences in the distribution of DIS binding sites. The investigated serum albumins from domesticated ruminants in their complexes with DIS are also compared with the analogous structures of equine and human serum albumins (ESA-DIS and HSA-DIS). Surprisingly, despite 98% sequence similarity, OSA binds only two molecules of DIS, whereas CSA binds six molecules of this ligand. Moreover, the binding of DIS to OSA and CSA introduced changes in the overall architecture of the proteins, causing not only different conformations of the amino-acid side chains in the binding pockets, but also a significant shift of the whole helices, changing the volume of the binding cavities.
The F1F0-ATP synthase translates a proton flux across the inner mitochondrial membrane into a mechanical rotation, driving anhydride bond formation in the catalytic portion. The complex's membrane-embedded motor forms a proteinaceous channel at the interface between Atp9 ring and Atp6. To prevent unrestricted proton flow dissipating the H+-gradient, channel formation is a critical and tightly controlled step during ATP synthase assembly. Here we show that the INA complex (INAC) acts at this decisive step promoting Atp9-ring association with Atp6. INAC binds to newly synthesized mitochondrial-encoded Atp6 and Atp8 in complex with maturation factors. INAC association is retained until the F1-portion is built on Atp6/8 and loss of INAC causes accumulation of the free F1. An independent complex is formed between INAC and the Atp9 ring. We conclude that INAC maintains assembly intermediates of the F1 F0-ATP synthase in a primed state for the terminal assembly step-motor module formation.
Tregs hold great promise as a cellular therapy for multiple immunologically mediated diseases, given their ability to control immune responses. The success of such strategies depends on the expansion of healthy, suppressive Tregs ex vivo and in vivo following the transfer. In clinical studies, levels of transferred Tregs decline sharply in the blood within a few days of the transfer. Tregs have a high rate of apoptosis. Here, we describe a new mechanism of Treg self-inflicted damage. We show that granzymes A and -B (GrA and GrB), which are highly upregulated in human Tregs upon stimulation, leak out of cytotoxic granules to induce cleavage of cytoplasmic and nuclear substrates, precipitating apoptosis in target cells. GrA and GrB substrates were protected from cleavage by inhibiting granzyme activity in vitro. Additionally, we show - by using cytometry by time of flight (CYTOF) - an increase in GrB-expressing Tregs in the peripheral blood and renal allografts of transplant recipients undergoing rejection. These GrB-expressing Tregs showed an activated phenotype but were significantly more apoptotic than non-GrB expressing Tregs. This potentially novel finding improves our understanding of Treg survival and suggests that manipulating Gr expression or activity might be useful for designing more effective Treg therapies.
Comment in    Ann Lymphoma. 2018 Mar;2(3):
Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) is an aggressive T cell malignancy that occurs in HTLV-1 infected patients. Most ATL patients develop osteolytic lesions and hypercalcemia of malignancy, causing severe skeletal related complications and reduced overall survival. The HTLV-1 virus encodes 2 viral oncogenes, Tax and HBZ. Tax, a transcriptional activator, is critical to ATL development, and has been implicated in pathologic osteolysis. HBZ, HTLV-1 basic leucine zipper transcription factor, promotes tumor cell proliferation and disrupts Wnt pathway modulators; however, its role in ATL induced osteolytic bone loss is unknown. To determine if HBZ is sufficient for the development of bone loss, we established a transgenic Granzyme B HBZ (Gzmb-HBZ) mouse model. Lymphoproliferative disease including tumors, enlarged spleens and/or abnormal white cell counts developed in two-thirds of Gzmb-HBZ mice at 18 months. HBZ positive cells were detected in tumors, spleen and bone marrow. Importantly, pathologic bone loss and hypercalcemia were present at 18 months. Bone-acting factors were present in serum and RANKL, PTHrP and DKK1, key mediators of hypercalcemia and bone loss, were upregulated in Gzmb-HBZ T cells. These data demonstrate that Gzmb-HBZ mice model ATL bone disease and express factors that are current therapeutic targets for metastatic and bone resident tumors.
Small-angle X-ray scattering is an increasingly popular technique used to detect protein structures and ensembles in solution. However, the refinement of structures and ensembles against SAXS data is often ambiguous due to the low information content of SAXS data, unknown systematic errors, and unknown scattering contributions from the solvent. We offer a solution to such problems by combining Bayesian inference with all-atom molecular dynamics simulations and explicit-solvent SAXS calculations. The Bayesian formulation correctly weights the SAXS data versus prior physical knowledge, it quantifies the precision or ambiguity of fitted structures and ensembles, and it accounts for unknown systematic errors due to poor buffer matching. The method further provides a probabilistic criterion for identifying the number of states required to explain the SAXS data. The method is validated by refining ensembles of a periplasmic binding protein against calculated SAXS curves. Subsequently, we derive the solution ensembles of the eukaryotic chaperone heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) against experimental SAXS data. We find that the SAXS data of the apo state of Hsp90 is compatible with a single wide-open conformation, whereas the SAXS data of Hsp90 bound to ATP or to an ATP-analogue strongly suggest heterogenous ensembles of a closed and a wide-open state.
Cyanobacteria are among the most abundant photosynthetic organisms in the oceans; viruses infecting cyanobacteria (cyanophages) can alter cyanobacterial populations, and therefore affect the local food web and global biochemical cycles. These phages carry auxiliary metabolic genes (AMGs), which rewire various metabolic pathways in the infected host cell, resulting in increased phage fitness. Coping with stress resulting from photodamage appears to be a central necessity of cyanophages, yet the overall mechanism is poorly understood. Here we report a novel, widespread cyanophage AMG, encoding a fatty acid desaturase (FAD), found in two genotypes with distinct geographical distribution. FADs are capable of modulating the fluidity of the host's membrane, a fundamental stress response in living cells. We show that both viral FAD (vFAD) families are Δ9 lipid desaturases, catalyzing the desaturation at carbon 9 in C16 fatty acid chains. In addition, we present a comprehensive fatty acid profiling for marine cyanobacteria, which suggests a unique desaturation pathway of medium- to long-chain fatty acids no longer than C16, in accordance with the vFAD activity. Our findings suggest that cyanophages are capable of fiddling with the infected host's membranes, possibly leading to increased photoprotection and potentially enhancing viral-encoded photosynthetic proteins, resulting in a new viral metabolic network.
BACKGROUND: Previous studies in the Norwegian pig breeds Landrace and Duroc have revealed a QTL for levels of skatole located in the region 74.7-80.5 Mb on SSC7. Skatole is one of the main components causing boar taint, which gives an undesirable smell and taste to the pig meat when heated. Surgical castration of boars is a common practice to reduce the risk of boar taint, however, a selection for boars genetically predisposed for low levels of taint would help eliminating the need for castration and be advantageous for both economic and welfare reasons. In order to identify the causal mutation(s) for the QTL and/or identify genetic markers for selection purposes we performed a fine mapping of the SSC7 skatole QTL region.RESULTS: A dense set of markers on SSC7 was obtained by whole genome re-sequencing of 24 Norwegian Landrace and 23 Duroc boars. Subsets of 126 and 157 SNPs were used for association analyses in Landrace and Duroc, respectively. Significant single markers associated with skatole spanned a large 4.4 Mb region from 75.9-80.3 Mb in Landrace, with the highest test scores found in a region between the genes NOVA1 and TGM1 (p < 0.001). The same QTL was obtained in Duroc and, although less significant, with associated SNPs spanning a 1.2 Mb region from 78.9-80.1 Mb (p < 0.01). The highest test scores in Duroc were found in genes of the granzyme family (GZMB and GZMH-like) and STXBP6. Haplotypes associated with levels of skatole were identified in Landrace but not in Duroc, and a haplotype block was found to explain 2.3% of the phenotypic variation for skatole. The SNPs in this region were not associated with levels of sex steroids.CONCLUSIONS: Fine mapping of a QTL for skatole on SSC7 confirmed associations of this region with skatole levels in pigs. The QTL region was narrowed down to 4.4 Mb in Landrace and haplotypes explaining 2.3% of the phenotypic variance for skatole levels were identified. Results confirmed that sex steroids are not affected by this QTL region, making these markers attractive for selection against boar taint.
Sea buckthorn ( Hippophae rhamnoides L.) has multifarious medicinal properties including immunoregulatory effect. The total flavonoids of Hippophae rhamnoides L. (TFH) are the main active components isolated from berries of sea buckthorn. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of TFH on the cytotoxicity of NK92-MI cells and its possible mechanisms. NK92-MI cells were treated with TFH (2.5 or 5.0 mg/L) or phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for 24 h, the cytotoxicity against K562 was detected by measuring the release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), expression levels of NCRs (NKp30, NKp44, NKp46) and NKG2D were detected by flow cytometry, and expression levels of perforin and granzyme B were detected by western blot. Cytokine Antibody Arrays with 80 cytokine proteins were used to profile the effect of TFH on cytokines. Western blot was adopted to detect the effects of TFH on STAT1, STAT4, and STAT5 signal pathway. Compared with the normal control group, TFH could significantly enhance NK92-MI cell cytotoxicity against K562 cells, upregulate expressions of NKp44, NKp46, perforin, and granzyme B. TFH could upregulate expressions of IL-1α, IL-2, IL-7, IL-15, CSF-2, CSF-3, MCP-1, MIG, IFN-γ, TNF-α, and TNF-β and downregulate expressions of IL-16, MIP-1β, CX3CL-1, and MIF. TFH could increase expressions of phospho-STAT1 and phospho-STAT5. The results suggest that TFH stimulated NK92-MI cells to activate and enhance cytotoxicity of NK92-MI cells.
The Asc1 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a scaffold protein at the head region of ribosomal 40S that links mRNA translation to cellular signaling. In this study, proteins that colocalize with Asc1p were identified with proximity-dependent Biotin IDentification (BioID), an in vivo labeling technique described here for the first time for yeast. Biotinylated Asc1p-birA*-proximal proteins were identified and quantitatively verified against controls applying SILAC and mass spectrometry. The mRNA-binding proteins Sro9p and Gis2p appeared together with Scp160p, each providing ribosomes with nuclear transcripts. The cap-binding protein eIF4E (Cdc33p) and the eIF3/a-subunit (Rpg1p) were identified reflecting the encounter of proteins involved in the initiation of mRNA translation at the head region of ribosomal 40S. Unexpectedly, a protein involved in ribosome preservation (the clamping factor Stm1p), the deubiquitylation complex Ubp3p-Bre5p, the RNA polymerase II degradation factor 1 (Def1p), and transcription factors (Spt5p, Mbf1p) colocalize with Asc1p in exponentially growing cells. For Asc1R38D, K40Ep, a variant considered to be deficient in binding to ribosomes, BioID revealed its predominant ribosome localization. Glucose depletion replaced most of the Asc1p colocalizing proteins for additional ribosomal proteins, suggesting a ribosome aggregation process during early nutrient limitation, possibly concomitant with ribosomal subunit clamping. Overall, the characterization of the Asc1p microenvironment with BioID confirmed and substantiated our recent findings that the β-propeller broadly contributes to signal transduction influencing phosphorylation of colocalizing proteins (e.g. of Bre5p), and by that might affect nuclear gene transcription and the fate of ribosomes.
The factors and steps controlling postinfection CD8+ T cell terminal effector versus memory differentiation are incompletely understood. Whereas we found that naive TCF7 (alias "Tcf-1") expression is FOXO1 independent, early postinfection we report bimodal, FOXO1-dependent expression of the memory-essential transcription factor TCF7 in pathogen-specific CD8+ T cells. We determined the early postinfection TCF7high population is marked by low TIM3 expression and bears memory signature hallmarks before the appearance of established memory precursor marker CD127 (IL-7R). These cells exhibit diminished TBET, GZMB, mTOR signaling, and cell cycle progression. Day 5 postinfection, TCF7high cells express higher memory-associated BCL2 and EOMES, as well as increased accumulation potential and capacity to differentiate into memory phenotype cells. TCF7 retroviral transduction opposes GZMB expression and the formation of KLRG1pos phenotype cells, demonstrating an active role for TCF7 in extinguishing the effector program and forestalling terminal differentiation. Past the peak of the cellular immune response, we report a gradient of FOXO1 and TCF7 expression, which functions to oppose TBET and orchestrate a continuum of effector-to-memory phenotypes.
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Altered gene expression in intestinal mucosa is thought to contribute to inflammatory process in Crohn's disease (CD). The present study investigated changes in the expression of genes associated with gut inflammation in CD patients by RNA microarray to identify disease biomarkers.METHODS: Microarray analysis was carried out in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded intestinal tissue specimens from six CD patients who underwent surgery without prior treatment and from two healthy control subjects. Transcripts overexpressed in CD patients were validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using specimens from 46 CD patients and 60 healthy controls.RESULTS: Among the genes over-expressed with statistical significance, five genes including decay-accelerating factor, interleukin-1 receptor (IL1R) A, tumour necrosis factor receptor 2, (C-X-C motif) ligand (CXCL) 1, and granzyme (GZM) B proposed to have functional association with CD were selected to validate the expressed transcripts in serum. Serum concentration of IL1RA, CXCL1, and GZMB measured by ELISA were significantly higher in CD patients.CONCLUSIONS: We identified that IL1RA, CXCL1, and GZMB are overexpressed in CD patients. Serum IL1RA and GZMB levels were markedly increased in CD patients, suggesting that these markers can serve as biomarkers to identify gut inflammation. Further studies will be required to evaluate this possibility.
OBJECTIVES: Granzymes (Grs) are serine proteases that eliminate virally infected or tumour cells by inducing apoptosis. GrB has been shown to be associated to the pathophysiology of SLE, whereas the role of the other Grs in SLE remain unknown.METHODS: Gr levels were determined in the serum of SLE patients and controls and linked to SLE activity parameters, including the IFN signature. In addition, GrB expression was investigated in LN biopsies and correlated to kidney function parameters and disease severity.RESULTS: Serum GrK and GrM levels were not elevated in SLE and did not correlate with disease activity. In contrast, GrB was increased in SLE serum, which correlated to both the SLEDAI and IFN signature. GrB expression was detected in LN tissue biopsies. The number of GrB-positive cells in tissue correlated to several kidney function parameters (e.g. serum creatinine, proteinuria) and to the LN chronicity index.CONCLUSION: GrB, but not GrK and GrM, is increased in the serum and kidney of patients with SLE and correlates with measures of poor prognosis in LN. These data suggest that GrB may contribute to the pathogenesis of SLE/LN, which indicates the possibility that GrB might be used as a biomarker and/or a therapeutic target.
There is a dearth of knowledge about the pathogenesis of premalignant lung lesions, especially for atypical adenomatous hyperplasia (AAH), the only known precursor for the major lung cancer subtype adenocarcinoma (LUAD). In this study, we performed deep DNA and RNA sequencing analyses of a set of AAH, LUAD, and normal tissues. Somatic BRAF variants were found in AAHs from 5 of 22 (23%) patients, 4 of 5 of whom had matched LUAD with driver EGFR mutations. KRAS mutations were present in AAHs from 4 of 22 (18%) of patients. KRAS mutations in AAH were only found in ever-smokers and were exclusive to BRAF-mutant cases. Integrative analysis revealed profiles expressed in KRAS-mutant cases (UBE2C, REL) and BRAF-mutant cases (MAX) of AAH, or common to both sets of cases (suppressed AXL). Gene sets associated with suppressed antitumor (Th1; IL12A, GZMB) and elevated protumor (CCR2, CTLA-4) immune signaling were enriched in AAH development and progression. Our results reveal potentially divergent BRAF or KRAS pathways in AAH as well as immune dysregulation in the pathogenesis of this premalignant lung lesion. Cancer Res; 77(22); 6119-30. ©2017 AACR.
The cancer immune microenvironment is of importance for the effectiveness of immunotherapy; however, its dysregulation is poorly understood. The MUC1-C oncoprotein is aberrantly overexpressed in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and has been linked to the induction of PD-L1. The present work investigated the effects of targeting MUC1-C in an immuno-competent MUC1 transgenic (MUC1.Tg) mouse model. We show that Lewis Lung Carcinoma cells expressing MUC1-C (LLC/MUC1) exhibit upregulation of PD-L1 and suppression of interferon-γ (IFN-γ). In studies of LLC/MUC1 cells growing in vitro and as tumors in MUC1.Tg mice, treatment with the MUC1-C inhibitor, GO-203, was associated with the downregulation of PD-L1 and induction of IFN-γ. The results further demonstrate that targeting MUC1-C results in enhanced effector function of CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) as evidenced by increased expression of the activation marker CD69, the degranulation marker CD107α, and granzyme B. Notably, targeting MUC1-C was also associated with marked increases in TIL-mediated killing of LLC/MUC1 cells. Analysis of gene expression data sets further showed that overexpression of MUC1 in NSCLCs correlates negatively with CD8, IFNG and GZMB, and that decreases in CD8 and IFNG are associated with poor clinical outcomes. These findings in LLC/MUC1 tumors and in NSCLCs indicate that MUC1-C→PD-L1 signaling promotes the suppression of CD8+ T-cell activation and that MUC1-C is a potential target for reprogramming of the tumor microenvironment.
Human papilloma virus (HPV)-induced cervical cancer constitutively expresses viral E6/E7 oncoproteins and is an excellent target for T cell-based immunotherapy. However, not all tumor-infiltrating T cells confer equal benefit to patients, with epithelial T cells being superior to stromal T cells. To assess whether the epithelial T cell biomarker CD103 could specifically discriminate the beneficial antitumor T cells, association of CD103 with clinicopathological variables and outcome was analyzed in the TCGA cervical cancer data set (n = 304) and by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in an independent cohort (n = 460). Localization of CD103+ cells in the tumor was assessed by immunofluorescence. Furthermore, use of CD103 as a response biomarker was assessed in an in vivo E6/E7+ tumor model. Our results show that CD103 gene expression was strongly correlated with cytotoxic T cell markers (e.g. CD8/GZMB/PD1) in the TCGA series. In line with this, CD103+ cells in the IHC series co-expressed CD8 and were preferentially located in cervical tumor epithelium. High CD103+ cell infiltration was strongly associated with an improved prognosis in both series, and appeared to be a better predictor of outcome than CD8. Interestingly, the prognostic benefit of CD103 in both series seemed limited to patients receiving radiotherapy. In a preclinical mouse model, HPV E6/E7-targeted therapeutic vaccination in combination with radiotherapy increased the intratumoral number of CD103+ CD8+ T cells, providing a potential mechanistic basis for our results. In conclusion, CD103 is a promising marker for rapid assessment of tumor-reactive T cell infiltration of cervical cancers and a promising response biomarker for E6/E7-targeted immunotherapy.
The nuclear envelope, comprising the inner and the outer nuclear membrane, separates the nucleus from the cytoplasm and plays a key role in cellular functions. Nuclear pore complexes (NPCs), which are embedded in the nuclear envelope, control transport of macromolecules between the two compartments. Here, using dual-color metal-induced energy transfer (MIET), we determine the axial distance between Lap2β and Nup358 as markers for the inner nuclear membrane and the cytoplasmic side of the NPC, respectively. Using MIET imaging, we reconstruct the 3D profile of the nuclear envelope over the whole basal area, with an axial resolution of a few nanometers. This result demonstrates that optical microscopy can achieve nanometer axial resolution in biological samples and without recourse to complex interferometric approaches.
Cytotoxic T lymphocytes are effector CD8+ T cells that eradicate infected and malignant cells. Here we show that the transcription factor NFATc1 controls the cytotoxicity of mouse cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Activation of Nfatc1 -/- cytotoxic T lymphocytes showed a defective cytoskeleton organization and recruitment of cytosolic organelles to immunological synapses. These cells have reduced cytotoxicity against tumor cells, and mice with NFATc1-deficient T cells are defective in controlling Listeria infection. Transcriptome analysis shows diminished RNA levels of numerous genes in Nfatc1 -/- CD8+ T cells, including Tbx21, Gzmb and genes encoding cytokines and chemokines, and genes controlling glycolysis. Nfatc1 -/- , but not Nfatc2 -/- CD8+ T cells have an impaired metabolic switch to glycolysis, which can be restored by IL-2. Genome-wide ChIP-seq shows that NFATc1 binds many genes that control cytotoxic T lymphocyte activity. Together these data indicate that NFATc1 is an important regulator of cytotoxic T lymphocyte effector functions.NFAT nuclear translocation has been shown to be required for CD8+ T cell cytokine production in response to viral infection. Here the authors show NFATc1 controls the cytotoxicity and metabolic switching of activated CD8+ T cells required for optimal response to bacteria and tumor cells.
BACKGROUND: The NK-92/5.28.z cell line (also referred to as HER2.taNK) represents a stable, lentiviral-transduced clone of ErbB2 (HER2)-specific, second-generation CAR-expressing derivative of clinically applicable NK-92 cells. This study addresses manufacturing-related issues and aimed to develop a GMP-compliant protocol for the generation of NK-92/5.28.z therapeutic doses starting from a well-characterized GMP-compliant master cell bank.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Commercially available GMP-grade culture media and supplements (fresh frozen plasma, platelet lysate) were evaluated for their ability to support expansion of NK-92/5.28.z. Irradiation sensitivity and cytokine release were also investigated.RESULTS: NK-92/5.28.z cells can be grown to clinically applicable cell doses of 5 × 108 cells/L in a 5-day batch culture without loss of viability and potency. X-Vivo 10 containing recombinant transferrin supplemented with 5% FFP and 500 IU/mL IL-2 in VueLife 750-C1 bags showed the best results. Platelet lysate was less suited to support NK-92/5.28.z proliferation. Irradiation with 10 Gy completely abrogated NK-92/5.28.z proliferation and preserved viability and potency for at least 24 h. NK-92/5.28.z showed higher baseline cytokine release compared to NK-92, which was significantly increased upon encountering ErbB2(+) targets [GZMB (twofold), IFN-γ (fourfold), IL-8 (24-fold) and IL-10 (fivefold)]. IL-6 was not released by NK cells, but was observed in some stimulated targets. Irradiation resulted in upregulation of IL-8 and downregulation of sFasL, while other cytokines were not impacted.CONCLUSION: Our concept suggests NK-92/5.28.z maintenance culture from which therapeutic doses up to 5 × 109 cells can be expanded in 10 L within 5 days. This established process is feasible to analyze NK-92/5.28.z in phase I/II trials.
Events defining the progression to human type 1 diabetes (T1D) have remained elusive owing to the complex interaction between genetics, the immune system, and the environment. Type 1 interferons (T1-IFN) are known to be a constituent of the autoinflammatory milieu within the pancreas of patients with T1D. However, the capacity of IFNα/β to modulate human activated autoreactive CD8+ T-cell (cytotoxic T lymphocyte) responses within the islets of patients with T1D has not been investigated. Here, we engineer human β-cell-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes and demonstrate that T1-IFN augments cytotoxicity by inducing rapid phosphorylation of STAT4, resulting in direct binding at the granzyme B promoter within 2 h of exposure. The current findings provide novel insights concerning the regulation of effector function by T1-IFN in human antigen-experienced CD8+ T cells and provide a mechanism by which the presence of T1-IFN potentiates diabetogenicity within the autoimmune islet.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The immune dysfunction in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients is one of the major factors for growth and dissemination of tumor affecting disease-free survival.METHODS: The phenotypic and functional characteristics of Regulatory T (Treg ) CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ subsets in OSCC patients were assessed by multicolor flow cytometry and its effector component (TGF-β) by Western blot and qRT-PCR.RESULTS: An increased (P < 0.05) prevalence of Treg phenotypes (CD4+ CD25+ , CD4+ FoxP3+ , CD8+ FoxP3+ , CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ ) was observed in the peripheral circulation of OSCC patients that positively correlated with clinicopathological features. The increased frequency of CD4+ CD8+ CD25+ FoxP3+ , a unique T cell subset, CTLA-4+ , GITR+ , NrP1+ , HLA-DR+ , CD127+ , Tbet+ , TGF-β+ , and granzyme B+ (GzmB) Tregs also showed a significantly higher prevalence in OSCC patients. Functionally, CD4+ FoxP3+ Tregs showed skewed expression of IL-2, IL-10, and IL-35 in patients as compared with the normal controls. Further, enhanced expression of CCR5 and CCR7 on Tregs with up regulation of their ligands (CCL5, CCL19, and CCL21) in tumor cells indicates efficient recruitment and trafficking of Tregs to the tumor site.CONCLUSION: It seems reasonable to assume that modulation of functional dynamics of selective Treg subsets may be useful in developing immunotherapeutic strategy for OSCC patients.
Resistance towards VEGF-centered anti-angiogenic therapy still represents a substantial clinical challenge. We report here that mast cells alter the proliferative and organizational state of endothelial cells which reduces the efficacy of anti-angiogenic therapy. Consequently, absence of mast cells sensitizes tumor vessels for anti-angiogenic therapy in different tumor models. Mechanistically, anti-angiogenic therapy only initially reduces tumor vessel proliferation, however, this treatment effect was abrogated over time as a result of mast cell-mediated restimulation of angiogenesis. We show that mast cells secrete increased amounts of granzyme b upon therapy, which mobilizes pro-angiogenic laminin- and vitronectin-bound FGF-1 and GM-CSF from the tumor matrix. In addition, mast cells also diminish efficacy of anti-angiogenic therapy by secretion of FGF-2. These pro-angiogenic factors act beside the targeted VEGFA-VEGFR2-axis and reinduce endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis despite the presence of anti-angiogenic therapy. Importantly, inhibition of mast cell degranulation with cromolyn is able to improve efficacy of anti-angiogenic therapy. Thus, concomitant mast cell-targeting might lead to improved efficacy of anti-angiogenic therapy.Resistance towards VEGF-centered anti-angiogenic therapy is an important clinical challenge. Here, the authors show that mast cells mediate resistance to anti-angiogenetic inhibitors by altering the proliferative and organizational state of endothelial cells through mobilization of FGF-1 and GM-CSF from the tumor matrix and secretion of FGF-2.
Anterior patterning of animals is based on a set of highly conserved transcription factors but the interactions within the protostome anterior gene regulatory network (aGRN) remain enigmatic. Here, we identify the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum ortholog of foxQ2 (Tc-foxQ2) as a novel upstream component of the aGRN. It is required for the development of the labrum and higher order brain structures, namely the central complex and the mushroom bodies. We reveal Tc-foxQ2 interactions by RNAi and heat shock-mediated misexpression. Surprisingly, Tc-foxQ2 and Tc-six3 mutually activate each other, forming a novel regulatory module at the top of the aGRN. Comparisons of our results with those of sea urchins and cnidarians suggest that foxQ2 has acquired more upstream functions in the aGRN during protostome evolution. Our findings expand the knowledge on foxQ2 gene function to include essential roles in epidermal development and central brain patterning.
Antifungal resistance is an emerging problem and one of the reasons for treatment failure of invasive aspergillosis (IA). Voriconazole has become a standard therapeutic for the treatment of this often fatal infection. We studied the differentially expressed proteins as a response of Aspergillus fumigatus to voriconazole by employing the two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (DIGE) technique. Due to addition of drug, a total of 135 differentially synthesized proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF/TOF-mass spectrometry. In particular, the level of proteins involved in the general stress response and cell detoxification increased prominently. In contrast, cell metabolism and energy proteins were down-regulated, which suggests the cellular effort to maintain balance in energy utilization while trying to combat the cellular stress exerted by the drug. We detected several so-far uncharacterized proteins which may play a role in stress response and drug metabolism and which could be future targets for antifungal treatment. A mutant strain, which is deleted in the cross-pathway control gene cpcA, was treated with voriconazole to investigate the contribution of the general control of amino acid biosynthesis to drug resistance. We compared the mutant strain's protein expression profile with the wild-type strain. The absence of CpcA led to an increased resistance to voriconazole and a reduced activation of some general stress response proteins, while the transcript level of the triazole target gene erg11A (cyp51A) remained unchanged. In contrast, the sensitivity of strain ΔcpcA to terbinafine and amphotericin B was slightly increased. These findings imply a role of CpcA in the cellular stress response to azole drugs at the post transcriptional level.
BACKGROUND: The duplication of genes can occur through various mechanisms and is thought to make a major contribution to the evolutionary diversification of organisms. There is increasing evidence for a large-scale duplication of genes in some chelicerate lineages including two rounds of whole genome duplication (WGD) in horseshoe crabs. To investigate this further, we sequenced and analyzed the genome of the common house spider Parasteatoda tepidariorum.RESULTS: We found pervasive duplication of both coding and non-coding genes in this spider, including two clusters of Hox genes. Analysis of synteny conservation across the P. tepidariorum genome suggests that there has been an ancient WGD in spiders. Comparison with the genomes of other chelicerates, including that of the newly sequenced bark scorpion Centruroides sculpturatus, suggests that this event occurred in the common ancestor of spiders and scorpions, and is probably independent of the WGDs in horseshoe crabs. Furthermore, characterization of the sequence and expression of the Hox paralogs in P. tepidariorum suggests that many have been subject to neo-functionalization and/or sub-functionalization since their duplication.CONCLUSIONS: Our results reveal that spiders and scorpions are likely the descendants of a polyploid ancestor that lived more than 450 MYA. Given the extensive morphological diversity and ecological adaptations found among these animals, rivaling those of vertebrates, our study of the ancient WGD event in Arachnopulmonata provides a new comparative platform to explore common and divergent evolutionary outcomes of polyploidization events across eukaryotes.
BACKGROUND: Typhoid fever, caused by the intracellular pathogen Salmonella (S.) enterica serovar Typhi, remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Granzymes are serine proteases promoting cytotoxic lymphocytes mediated eradication of intracellular pathogens via the induction of cell death and which can also play a role in inflammation. We aimed to characterize the expression of extracellular and intracellular granzymes in patients with typhoid fever and whether the extracellular levels of granzyme correlated with IFN-γ release.METHODS AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We analyzed soluble protein levels of extracellular granzyme A and B in healthy volunteers and patients with confirmed S. Typhi infection on admission and day of discharge, and investigated whether this correlated with interferon (IFN)-γ release, a cytokine significantly expressed in typhoid fever. The intracellular expression of granzyme A, B and K in subsets of lymphocytic cells was determined using flow cytometry. Patients demonstrated a marked increase of extracellular granzyme A and B in acute phase plasma and a correlation of both granzymes with IFN-γ release. In patients, lower plasma levels of granzyme B, but not granzyme A, were found at day of discharge compared to admission, indicating an association of granzyme B with stage of disease. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells of typhoid fever patients had a higher percentage of lymphocytic cells expressing intracellular granzyme A and granzyme B, but not granzyme K, compared to controls.CONCLUSION: The marked increase observed in extra- and intracellular levels of granzyme expression in patients with typhoid fever, and the correlation with stage of disease, suggests a role for granzymes in the host response to this disease.
Adoptive transfer of T cells engineered to express a hepatitis B virus-specific (HBV-specific) T cell receptor (TCR) may supplement HBV-specific immune responses in chronic HBV patients and facilitate HBV control. However, the risk of triggering unrestrained proliferation of permanently engineered T cells raises safety concerns that have hampered testing of this approach in patients. The aim of the present study was to generate T cells that transiently express HBV-specific TCRs using mRNA electroporation and to assess their antiviral and pathogenetic activity in vitro and in HBV-infected human liver chimeric mice. We assessed virological and gene-expression changes using quantitative reverse-transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR), immunofluorescence, and Luminex technology. HBV-specific T cells lysed HBV-producing hepatoma cells in vitro. In vivo, 3 injections of HBV-specific T cells caused progressive viremia reduction within 12 days of treatment in animals reconstituted with haplotype-matched hepatocytes, whereas viremia remained stable in mice receiving irrelevant T cells redirected toward hepatitis C virus-specific TCRs. Notably, increases in alanine aminotransferase levels, apoptotic markers, and human inflammatory cytokines returned to pretreatment levels within 9 days after the last injection. T cell transfer did not trigger inflammation in uninfected mice. These data support the feasibility of using mRNA electroporation to engineer HBV TCR-redirected T cells in patients with chronic HBV infection.
BACKGROUND: Microalgae are promising alternate and renewable sources for producing valuable products such as biofuel and essential fatty acids. Although this is the case, there are still challenges impeding on the effective commercial production of microalgal products. For instance, their product yield is still too low. Therefore, this study was oriented towards enhancing triacylglycerol (TAG) accumulation in the diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum (strain Pt4). To achieve this, a type 2 acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase from yeast (ScDGA1) and the lipid droplet (LD) stabilizing oleosin protein 3 from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtOLEO3) were expressed in Pt4.RESULTS: The individual expression of ScDGA1 and AtOLEO3 in Pt4 resulted in a 2.3- and 1.4-fold increase in TAG levels, respectively, in comparison to the wild type. The co-expression of both, ScDGA1 and AtOLEO3, was accompanied by a 3.6-fold increase in TAG content. On the cellular level, the lines co-expressing ScDGA1 and AtOLEO3 showed the presence of the larger and increased numbers of lipid droplets when compared to transformants expressing single genes and an empty vector. Under nitrogen stress, TAG productivity was further increased twofold in comparison to nitrogen-replete conditions. While TAG accumulation was enhanced in the analyzed transformants, the fatty acid composition remained unchanged neither in the total lipid nor in the TAG profile.CONCLUSIONS: The co-expression of two genes was shown to be a more effective strategy for enhancing TAG accumulation in P. tricornutum strain Pt4 than a single gene strategy. For the first time in a diatom, a LD protein from a vascular plant, oleosin, was shown to have an impact on TAG accumulation and on LD organization.
The transcription factor Tcf1 is essential for the development of natural killer (NK) cells. However, its precise role has not been clarified. Our combined analysis of Tcf1-deficient and transgenic mice indicated that Tcf1 guides NK cells through three stages of development. Tcf1 expression directed bone marrow progenitors toward the NK cell lineage and ensured the survival of NK-committed cells, and its downregulation was needed for terminal maturation. Impaired survival of NK-committed cells was due to excessive expression of granzyme B (GzmB) and other granzyme family members, which induced NK cell self-destruction during maturation and following activation with cytokines or target cells. Mechanistically, Tcf1 binding reduced the activity of a Gzmb-associated regulatory element, and this accounted for the reduced Gzmb expression in Tcf1-expressing NK cells. These data identify an unexpected requirement to limit the expression of cytotoxic effector molecules for the normal expansion and function of NK cells.
DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) prevent cells from entering mitosis allowing cells to repair their genomic damage. Little is known about the response to DSBs once cells have already committed to mitosis. Here, we review the genome-protective role of the mitotic DNA damage response (DDR) and evidence suggesting that its untimely activation induces chromosome segregation errors and paradoxically undermines genomic integrity. In contrast to normal cells, cancer cells coopt this pathway to propagate structural and numerical chromosomal instabilities. Cells derived from genomically unstable tumors exhibit evidence for a partially activated DDR during mitosis, which leads to ongoing chromosome segregation errors. Thus, a thorough understanding of the consequences of mitotic DNA damage is key to our ability to devise novel anticancer therapeutic strategies.
For more than 20 years perforin and granzymes (GZMs) have been recognized as key cell death executors of cytotoxic T (Tc) and natural killer (NK) cells during cancer immunosurveillance. In immune surveillance, perforin and GZMB, the most potent cytotoxic molecules, act mainly as antitumoral and anti-infectious factors. However, when expressed by immune regulatory cells they may contribute to immune evasion of specific cancer types. By contrast, the other major granzyme, GZMA, seems not to play a major role in Tc/NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity, but acts as a proinflammatory cytokine that might contribute to cancer development. Members of the GZM family also regulate other biological processes unrelated to cell death, such as angiogenesis, vascular integrity, extracellular matrix remodeling, and barrier function, all of which contribute to cancer initiation and progression. Thus, a new paradigm is emerging in the field of oncoimmunology. Can GZMs act as protumoral factors under some circumstances? We review the diverse roles of GZMs in cancer progression, and new therapeutic opportunities emerging from targeting these protumoral roles.
BACKGROUND: Gene duplications provide genetic material for the evolution of new morphological and physiological features. One copy can preserve the original gene functions while the second copy may evolve new functions (neofunctionalisation). Gene duplications may thus provide new genes involved in evolutionary novelties.RESULTS: We have studied the duplicated homeobox gene homothorax (hth) in the spider species Parasteatoda tepidariorum and Pholcus phalangioides and have compared these data with previously published data from additional spider species. We show that the expression pattern of hth1 is highly conserved among spiders, consistent with the notion that this gene copy preserves the original hth functions. By contrast, hth2 has a markedly different expression profile especially in the prosomal appendages. The pattern in the pedipalps and legs consists of several segmental rings, suggesting a possible role of hth2 in limb joint development. Intriguingly, however, the hth2 pattern is much less conserved between the species than hth1 and shows a species specific pattern in each species investigated so far.CONCLUSIONS: We hypothesise that the hth2 gene has gained a new patterning function after gene duplication, but has then undergone a second phase of diversification of its new role in the spider clade. The evolution of hth2 may thus provide an interesting example for a duplicated gene that has not only contributed to genetic diversity through neofunctionalisation, but beyond that has been able to escape evolutionary conservation after neofunctionalisation thus forming the basis for further genetic diversification.
Understanding the mechanisms for mRNA production under normal conditions and in response to cytotoxic stresses has been subject of numerous studies for several decades. The shutdown of canonical mRNA transcription, export and translation is required to have enough free resources for the immediate production of heat shock proteins that act as chaperones to sustain cellular processes. In recent work we uncovered a simple mechanism, in which the export block of regular mRNAs and a fast export of heat shock mRNAs is achieved by deactivation of the nuclear mRNA quality control mediated by the guard proteins. In this point of view we combine long known data with recently gathered information that support this novel model, in which cells omit quality control of stress responsive transcripts to ensure survival.
The antigen-specific targeting of autoreactive B cells via their unique B cell receptors (BCRs) is a novel and promising alternative to the systemic suppression of humoral immunity. We generated and characterized cytolytic fusion proteins based on an existing immunotoxin comprising tetanus toxoid fragment C (TTC) as the targeting component and the modified Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A (ETA') as the cytotoxic component. The immunotoxin was reconfigured to replace ETA' with either the granzyme B mutant R201K or MAPTau as human effector domains. The novel cytolytic fusion proteins were characterized with a recombinant human lymphocytic cell line developed using Transpo-mAb™ technology. Genes encoding a chimeric TTC-reactive immunoglobulin G were successfully integrated into the genome of the precursor B cell line REH so that the cells could present TTC-reactive BCRs on their surface. These cells were used to investigate the specific cytotoxicity of GrB(R201K)-TTC and TTC-MAPTau, revealing that the serpin proteinase inhibitor 9-resistant granzyme B R201K mutant induced apoptosis specifically in the lymphocytic cell line. Our data confirm that antigen-based fusion proteins containing granzyme B (R201K) are suitable candidates for the depletion of autoreactive B cells.
AIM: Granzyme B could induce apoptosis of target cell in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and was identified as the target of miR-874-3p by searching the miRNA database. We aim to determine the levels of granzyme B and miR-874-3p as well as assay their correlations or predict powers in AMI.PATIENTS & METHODS: We measured levels of plasma granzyme B and miR-874-3p in 80 AMI patients or 40 healthy controls and assayed their correlations or predicted powers for AMI.RESULTS: Elevated levels of granzyme B (16.71 ± 7.23 ng/l vs 9.27 ± 3.90 ng/l) correlated with miR-874-3p downregulation (0.20- ± 0.17-fold vs 1.00- ± 0.79-fold) in AMI patients.CONCLUSION: Plasma miR-874-3p might target granzyme B and it might be an additional biomarker for AMI.
Escherichia (E.) coli is the most common causative pathogen in peritonitis, the second most common cause of sepsis. Granzymes (gzms) are serine proteases traditionally implicated in cytotoxicity and, more recently, in the inflammatory response. We here sought to investigate the role of gzms in the host response to E. coli-induced peritonitis and sepsis in vivo. For this purpose, we used a murine model of E. coli intraperitoneal infection, resembling the clinical condition commonly associated with septic peritonitis by this bacterium, in wild-type and gzmA-deficient (gzmA-/- ), gzmB-/- , and gzmAxB-/- mice. GzmA and gzmB were predominantly expressed by natural killer cells, and during abdominal sepsis, the percentage of these cells expressing gzms in peritoneal lavage fluid decreased, while the amount of expression in the gzm+ cells increased. Deficiency of gzmA and/or gzmB was associated with increased bacterial loads, especially in the case of gzmB at the primary site of infection at late stage sepsis. While gzm deficiency did not impact neutrophil recruitment into the abdominal cavity, it was accompanied by enhanced nucleosome release at the primary site of infection, earlier hepatic necrosis, and more renal dysfunction. These results suggest that gzms influence bacterial growth and the host inflammatory response during abdominal sepsis caused by E. coli.
While changes in the transcriptome and proteome of developing pollen have been investigated in tobacco and other species, the metabolic consequences remain rather unclear. Here, a broad range of metabolites was investigated in close succession of developmental stages. Thirteen stages of tobacco male gametophyte development were collected, ranging from tetrads to pollen tubes. Subsequently, the central metabolome and sterol composition were analyzed by GC-mass spectrometry (MS), monitoring 77 metabolites and 29 non-identified analytes. The overall results showed that development and tube growth could be divided into eight metabolic phases with the phase including mitosis I being most distinct. During maturation, compounds such as sucrose and proline accumulated. These were degraded after rehydration, while γ-aminobutyrate transiently increased, possibly deriving from proline breakdown. Sterol analysis revealed that tetrads harbor similar sterols as leaves, but throughout maturation unusual sterols increased. Lastly, two further sterols exclusively accumulated in pollen tubes. This study allows a deeper look into metabolic changes during the development of a quasi-single cell type. Metabolites accumulating during maturation might accelerate pollen germination and tube growth, protect from desiccation, and feed pollinators. Future studies of the underlying processes orchestrating the changes in metabolite levels might give valuable insights into cellular regulation of plant metabolism.
This study quantified the perforin and granzyme B in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) at the time of diagnosis. Protein quantification was performed by flow cytometry. NHL patients had a higher number of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) expressing perforin as well as a greater number of activated CTLs than the control group. However, intracellular perforin levels in natural killer cells were lower in the NHL patients compared to the control group. Quantitative real time PCR showed that patients had more expression of perforin and granzyme B transcripts compared to the control group. In addition, patients who had expression of both genes below the median found for the NHL group had lower survival rates. Considering this, we believe that perforin and granzyme B are potential prognostic markers in NHL and thus it is fundamental to pay attention to their expressions in these patients.
The splicing of eukaryotic precursor mRNAs requires the activity of at least three DEAD-box helicases, one Ski2-like helicase and four DEAH-box helicases. High resolution structures for five of these spliceosomal helicases were obtained by means of X-ray crystallography. Additional low resolution structural information could be derived from single particle cryo electron microscopy and small angle X-ray scattering. The functional characterization includes biochemical methods to measure the ATPase and helicase activities. This review gives an overview on the techniques used to gain insights in to the structure and function of spliceosomal helicases.
BACKGROUND: The cause of neurodegeneration in progressive forms of multiple sclerosis is unknown. We investigated the impact of specific neuroinflammatory markers on human neurons to identify potential therapeutic targets for neuroprotection against chronic inflammation.METHODS: Surface immunocytochemistry directly visualized protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR1) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptors on neurons in human postmortem cortex in patients with and without neuroinflammatory lesions. Viability of cultured neurons was determined after exposure to cerebrospinal fluid from patients with progressive multiple sclerosis or purified granzyme B and IL-1β. Inhibitors of PAR1 activation and of PAR1-associated second messenger signaling were used to elucidate a mechanism of neurotoxicity.RESULTS: Immunohistochemistry of human post-mortem brain tissue demonstrated cells expressing higher amounts of PAR1 near and within subcortical lesions in patients with multiple sclerosis compared to control tissue. Human cerebrospinal fluid samples containing granzyme B and IL-1β were toxic to human neuronal cultures. Granzyme B was neurotoxic through activation of PAR1 and subsequently the phospholipase Cβ-IP3 second messenger system. Inhibition of PAR1 or IP3 prevented granzyme B toxicity. IL-1β enhanced granzyme B-mediated neurotoxicity by increasing PAR1 expression.CONCLUSIONS: Neurons within the inflamed central nervous system are imperiled because they express more PAR1 and are exposed to a neurotoxic combination of both granzyme B and IL-1β. The effects of these inflammatory mediators may be a contributing factor in the progressive brain atrophy associated with neuroinflammatory diseases. Knowledge of how exposure to IL-1β and granzyme B act synergistically to cause neuronal death yields potential novel neuroprotective treatments for neuroinflammatory diseases.
Granzyme B (GzmB) is a component of cytolytic granules within NK cells and is involved in several pathologies. It has previously been reported that there are three non-synonymous coding SNPs (rs8192917; Q48R, rs11539752; P88A, and rs2236338; Y245H) in the GZMB gene and that the QPY/RAH allele was clustered together close to the C-terminal α-helix. However, it is unknown whether the function of GzmB produced from NK cells is influenced by QPY/RAH polymorphism. The authors investigated the distribution of QPY/RAH polymorphism of the GZMB gene in a Japanese population (n = 106), and the involvement of Q48R polymorphism in NK cell cytotoxicity, degranulation, and production of GzmB. A strong linkage disequilibrium was observed among these SNPs, and NK cell cytotoxicity was influenced by rs8192917 (Q48R). Moreover, it found that R48-GzmB is a stable protein that accumulates to similar levels in activated NK cells as Q48-GzmB. rs8192917 polymorphism may influence antitumor activity and the effect of antitumor cellular immunotherapy. The authors expect that these new informations about QPY/RAH polymorphism of the GZMB gene could help to assess the impact of NK cell cytotoxicity in several pathologies and aid their treatment.
Comment in    Cancer Discov. 2017 Oct;7(10 ):1062-1064.
Organ size and pattern results from the integration of two positional information systems. One global information system, encoded by the Hox genes, links organ type with position along the main body axis. Within specific organs, local information is conveyed by signaling molecules that regulate organ growth and pattern. The mesothoracic (T2) wing and the metathoracic (T3) haltere of Drosophila represent a paradigmatic example of this coordination. The Hox gene Ultrabithorax (Ubx), expressed in the developing T3, selects haltere identity by, among other processes, modulating the production and signaling efficiency of Dpp, a BMP2-like molecule that acts as a major regulator of size and pattern. However, the mechanisms of the Hox-signal integration in this well-studied system are incomplete. Here, we have investigated this issue by studying the expression and function of the Six3 transcription factor optix during Drosophila wing and haltere development. We find that in both organs, Dpp defines the expression domain of optix through repression, and that the specific position of this domain in wing and haltere seems to reflect the differential signaling profile among these organs. We show that optix expression in wing and haltere primordia is conserved beyond Drosophila in other higher diptera. In Drosophila, optix is necessary for the growth of wing and haltere. In the wing, optix is required for the growth of the most anterior/proximal region (the 'marginal cell') and for the correct formation of sensory structures along the proximal anterior wing margin; the halteres of optix mutants are also significantly reduced. In addition, in the haltere, optix is necessary for the suppression of sensory bristles.
Cellular immunity is important for protection against the serious complications of influenza in older adults. As it is unclear if newer influenza vaccines elicit greater cellular responses than standard vaccines, we compared responses to 2 standard and 2 newer licensed trivalent inactivated vaccines (TIVs) in a randomized trial in older adults. Non-frail adults ≥ 65 y old were randomly assigned to receive standard subunit, MF59-adjuvanted subunit, standard split-virus or intradermal split-virus TIV. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) harvested pre- and 3-weeks post-vaccination were stimulated with live A/H3N2 virus. PBMC supernatants were tested for interleukin 10 (IL-10) and interferon gamma (IFN-γ), and lysates for granzyme B (GrB). Flow cytometry identified CD4+ and CD8+ T- cells expressing intracellular IL-2, IL-10, IFN-γ, GrB, or perforin. Differences following immunization were assessed for paired subject samples and among vaccines. 120 seniors participated, 29-31 per group, which were well matched demographically. Virus-stimulated PBMCs were GrB-rich before and after vaccination, with minimal increases evident. Immunization did not increase secretion of IFN-γ or IL-10. However, cytolytic effector T-cells (CD8+GrB+perforin+) increased significantly in percentage post-vaccination in all groups, to similar mean values across groups. CD4+GrB+perforin+ T-cells also increased significantly after each vaccine, to similar mean values among vaccines. Vaccination did not increase the low baseline percentages of CD4+ or CD8+ T-cells expressing IFN-γ, IL-2 or IL-10 . In conclusion, participants had pre-existing cellular immunity to H3N2 virus. All 4 vaccines boosted cellular responses to a similar but limited extent, particularly cytolytic effector CD8+ T-cells associated with clinical protection against influenza.
Severe aplastic anemia (SAA) is an autoimmune disease caused mainly by activated T lymphocytes. Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is a member of TNF family, which can induce apoptosis and play a significant role in the pathogenesis of many autoimmune disorders. In this study, we sought to investigate the role of TRAIL in peripheral CD8+ T cells (CTLs) from SAA patients to clarify the autoimmune mechanisms of bone marrow failure in SAA. The expression of TRAIL and TRAIL-R2 in CTLs from SAA patients and normal controls were determined by flow cytometry, real-time PCR, and western blot. Expression of perforin and granzyme B and apoptosis in CTLs were evaluated by flow cytometry. The expression of TRAIL and TRAIL-R2 in SAA patients was significantly decreased compared with controls; however, there was no statistical difference in TRAIL mRNA expression between the two groups. TRAIL expression in CTLs was negatively correlated with the expression of perforin and granzyme B, and negatively correlated with CTLs apoptosis in SAA patients. The TRAIL pathway may be responsible for abnormal CTL activation in SAA patients. Further study of TRAIL and its receptors may elucidate the pathogenesis of SAA.
BACKGROUND: Lobosphaera incisa (L. incisa) is an oleaginous microalga that stores triacylglycerol (TAG) rich in arachidonic acid in lipid bodies (LBs). This organelle is gaining attention in algal research, since evidence is accumulating that proteins attached to its surface fulfill important functions in TAG storage and metabolism.RESULTS: Here, the composition of the LB proteome in L incisa was investigated by comparing different cell fractions in a semiquantitative proteomics approach. After applying stringent filters to the proteomics data in order to remove contaminating proteins from the list of possible LB proteins (LBPs), heterologous expression of candidate proteins in tobacco pollen tubes, allowed us to confirm 3 true LBPs: A member of the algal Major Lipid Droplet Protein family, a small protein of unknown function and a putative lipase. In addition, a TAG lipase that belongs to the SUGAR DEPENDENT 1 family of TAG lipases known from oilseed plants was identified. Its activity was verified by functional complementation of an Arabidopsis thaliana mutant lacking the major seed TAG lipases.CONCLUSIONS: Here we describe 3 LBPs as well as a TAG lipase from the oleaginous microalga L. incisa and discuss their possible involvement in LB metabolism. This study highlights the importance of filtering LB proteome datasets and verifying the subcellular localization one by one, so that contaminating proteins can be recognized as such. Our dataset can serve as a valuable resource in the identification of additional LBPs, shedding more light on the intriguing roles of LBs in microalgae.
All-trans retinoic acid (atRA), the main biologically active metabolite of vitamin A, has been implicated in immunoregulation and anti-cancer. A recent finding that vitamin A could decrease the risk of melanoma in humans indicates the beneficial role of atRA in melanoma. However, it remains unknown whether topical application of atRA could inhibit melanoma growth by influencing tumour immunity. We demonstrate topical application of tretinoin ointment (atRA as the active ingredient) effectively inhibited B16F10 melanoma growth. This is accompanied by markedly enhanced CD8+ T-cell responses, as evidenced by significantly increased proportions of effector CD8+ T cells expressing granzyme B, tumour necrosis factor-α, or interferon-γ, and Ki67+ proliferating CD8+ T cells in atRA-treated tumours compared with vaseline controls. Furthermore, topical atRA treatment promoted the differentiation of effector CD8+ T cells in draining lymph nodes (DLN) of tumour-bearing mice. Interestingly, atRA did not affect tumoral CD4+ T-cell response, and even inhibited the differentiation of interferon-γ-expressing T helper type 1 cells in DLN. Importantly, we demonstrated that the tumour-inhibitory effect of atRA was partly dependent on CD8+ T cells, as CD8+ T-cell depletion restored tumour volumes in atRA-treated mice, which, however, was still significantly smaller than those in vaseline-treated mice. Finally, we demonstrated that atRA up-regulated MHCI expression in B16F10 cells, and DLN cells from tumour-bearing mice had a significantly higher killing rate when culturing with atRA-treated B16F10 cells. Hence, our study demonstrates that topical atRA treatment effectively inhibits melanoma growth partly by promoting the differentiation and the cytotoxic function of effector CD8+ T cells.
BACKGROUND: Cultivation of recombinant Pichia pastoris (Komagataella sp.) under hypoxic conditions has a strong positive effect on specific productivity when the glycolytic GAP promoter is used for recombinant protein expression, mainly due to upregulation of glycolytic conditions. In addition, transcriptomic analyses of hypoxic P. pastoris pointed out important regulation of lipid metabolism and unfolded protein response (UPR). Notably, UPR that plays a role in the regulation of lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism and protein secretion, was found to be upregulated under hypoxia.RESULTS: To improve our understanding of the interplay between lipid metabolism, UPR and protein secretion, the lipidome of a P. pastoris strain producing an antibody fragment was studied under hypoxic conditions. Furthermore, lipid composition analyses were combined with previously available transcriptomic datasets to further understand the impact of hypoxia on lipid metabolism. Chemostat cultures operated under glucose-limiting conditions under normoxic and hypoxic conditions were analyzed in terms of intra/extracellular product distribution and lipid composition. Integrated analysis of lipidome and transcriptome datasets allowed us to demonstrate an important remodeling of the lipid metabolism under limited oxygen availability. Additionally, cells with reduced amounts of ergosterol through fluconazole treatment were also included in the study to observe the impact on protein secretion and its lipid composition.CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that cells adjust their membrane composition in response to oxygen limitation mainly by changing their sterol and sphingolipid composition. Although fluconazole treatment results a different lipidome profile than hypoxia, both conditions result in higher recombinant protein secretion levels.
The biological function of lipoxygenases depends on the regio and stereo specific formation of fatty acid-derived hydroperoxides and different concepts exist to explain the mechanism that directs dioxygen to a specific carbon atom within the substrate. Here, we report the 1.8 Å resolution crystal structure of a cyanobacterial lipoxygenase that produces bis-allylic hydroperoxides (CspLOX2). Site directed mutagenesis experiments combined with computational approaches reveal that residues around the active site direct dioxygen to a preferred carbon atom and stereo configuration in the substrate fatty acid. Modulating the cavity volume around the pentadiene system of linoleic acid shifted the product formation towards 9S-, 9R-, 13S- or 13R-hydroperoxides in correlation with the site of mutation, thus decreasing the amount of the bis-allylic 11R-hydroperoxide. Decreasing the channel size of a 9R-lipoxygenase (CspLOX1) on the other hand could in turn induce formation of the bis-allylic 11R-hydroperoxide. Together this study suggests that an active site clamp fixing the pentadiene system of the substrate together with steric shielding controls the stereo and regio specific positioning of dioxygen at all positions of the reacting pentadiene system of substrate fatty acids.
Mannose-6-phosphate receptor (M6PR) that facilitates cellular uptake of M6P-bearing proteins, including serine-protease granzyme-B (Gzm-B) has an important role in T-cell activation, migration and contraction. However, molecular mechanisms controlling M6PR expression in T cells remain poorly understood. Here, we show that M6PR expression on T cells is distinctively controlled by two common γ-chain cytokines interleukin-2 (IL-2) and IL-7, and the differential M6PR expression is not caused by an altered synthesis of M6PR protein, but is a result of distinct regulation of kinesin-3 motor-protein KIF13A that transport M6PR onto cell surfaces. Using signaling pathway-specific inhibitors, we determine that IL-2 and IL-7 distinctly regulate KIF13A and β1-adaptin and cell-surface M6PR by controlling a kinase mammalian target of rapamycin complex-1 (mTORC1). Inflammatory cytokine IL-2 and prosurvival cytokine IL-7 induce strong and weak activation of mTORC1, leading to up- and downregulation of motor-protein KIF13A and KIF13A-motorized M6PR on T cells, and formation of IL-2 and IL-7 effectors with M6PRhigh and M6PRlow cell-surface expression, respectively. Inhibition of mTORC1 by rapamycin reduces T-cell expression of KIF13A and cell-surface M6PR, and increases T-cell survival in Listeria monocytogenes-infected mice. Using regulatory T (Treg)-cell-enriched mouse tumor model, we determine that M6PRhigh IL-2 effectors but not M6PRlow IL-7 effectors adoptively transferred into tumors are vulnerable to Treg Gzm-B-mediated cell apoptosis. Inhibition of mTORC1 or small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of KIF13A or M6PR renders IL-2 effectors refractory to Treg Gzm-B lethal hit. Overall, our data offer novel mechanistic insights into T-cell M6PR regulation, and Treg-resistant/Treg-susceptible phenomenon. Furthermore, regulation of T-cell fate vis-à-vis Treg suppression via the mTORC1-KIF13A-M6PR axis provides a proof of concept for therapeutic strategies to target cancer, infectious and autoimmune diseases.
In East Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, chronic infection is the main cause of the development of hepatocellular carcinoma, an aggressive cancer with low survival rate. Cytotoxic T cell-based immunotherapy is a promising treatment strategy. Here, we investigated the possibility of using HBV-specific CD4+ cytotoxic T cells to eliminate tumor cells. The naturally occurring HBV-specific cytotoxic CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were identified by HBV peptide pool stimulation. We found that in HBV-induced hepatocellular carcinoma patients, the HBV-specific cytotoxic CD4+ T cells and cytotoxic CD8+ T cells were present at similar numbers. But compared to the CD8+ cytotoxic T cells, the CD4+ cytotoxic T cells secreted less cytolytic factors granzyme A (GzmA) and granzyme B (GzmB), and were less effective at eliminating tumor cells. In addition, despite being able to secrete cytolytic factors, CD4+ T cells suppressed the cytotoxicity mediated by CD8+ T cells, even when CD4+ CD25+ regulator T cells were absent. Interestingly, we found that interleukin 10 (IL-10)-secreting Tr1 cells were enriched in the cytotoxic CD4+ T cells. Neutralization of IL-10 abrogated the suppression of CD8+ T cells by CD4+ CD25- T cells. Neither the frequency nor the absolute number of HBV-specific CD4+ cytotoxic T cells were correlated with the clinical outcome of advanced stage hepatocellular carcinoma patients. Together, this study demonstrated that in HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma, CD4+ T cell-mediated cytotoxicity was present naturally in the host and had the potential to exert antitumor immunity, but its capacity was limited and was associated with immunoregulatory properties.
AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Among the beta-cell associated antigens, preproinsulin (PPI) has been shown to play a key role in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes (T1D). PPI-specific autoreactive CD8+ T cells emerge early during beta-cell destruction and persist in peripheral circulation during diabetes progression. However, the influence of insulin therapy on phenotype of autoreactive CD8+ T cells in T1D including, juvenile-onset T1D (JOT1D), and adult-onset T1D (AOT1D) is not yet known.METHODS: We followed the time course of PPI-specific CD8+ T cells in JOT1D and AOT1D subjects that achieved glycemic control after 1 year of insulin therapy, using major histocompatibility complex-I (MHC-I) dextramers by flow cytometry.RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: At follow-up, PPI-specific CD8+ T cells could be detected consistently in peripheral blood of all T1D subjects. Proportion of PPI-specific effector memory (TEM ) subsets decreased, while central memory T (TCM ) cells remained unchanged in both groups. Expression of granzyme-B and perforin in PPI-specific CD8+ T cells also remained unchanged. Further, on analysis of B-chain and signal peptide (SP) specific CD8+ T cell responses separately, we again observed decrease in TEM subset in both the groups, while increase in naive (TN ) subset was observed in B-chain specific CD8+ T cells only.CONCLUSION: Our study shows that PPI-specific CD8+ T cells can be detected in both JOT1D and AOT1D subjects over a period of time with reliable consistency in frequency but variable pathophysiological characteristics. Insulin therapy seems to reduce the PPI-specific TEM subsets; however, the PPI-specific TCM cells continue to persist as attractive targets for immunotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) is caused by Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis, which infects dermal macrophages and dendritic cells, causing an intense immune-mediated-tissue inflammation and a skin ulcer with elevated borders that can heal spontaneously or after antimonial therapy. The resolution of lesions depends on an adaptive immune response, and cytotoxic cells seem to have a fundamental role in this process. The aim of this study is to better understand the role of cytotoxicity mediated mechanisms that occur during the immune response in the CL lesion milieu, considering distinct cytotoxic-related CD107a+ cells, such as CD8+, CD4+, CD4neg CD8neg (double-negative, DN) and CD4+CD8+ (double-positive, DP) T lymphocytes, as well as NK and NKT cells.METHODS: Lesion derived cells were assessed for T cell subpopulations and NK cells, as well as CD107a expression by flow cytometry. In addition, cytometric bead array (CBA) was used to quantify cytokines and granzyme B concentrations in supernatants from macerated lesions.RESULTS: Flow cytometry analyses revealed that NKT cells are the major CD107a-expressing cell population committed to cytotoxicity in CL lesion, although we also observed high frequencies of CD4+ and DN T cells expressing CD107a. Analysing the pool of CD107a+-cell populations, we found a higher distribution of DN T cells (44%), followed by approximately 25% of NKT cells. Interestingly, NK and CD8+ T cells represented only 3 and 4% of the total-CD107a+-cell pool, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: The cytotoxicity activity that occurs in the lesion milieu of CL patients seems to be dominated by DN T and NKT cells. These findings suggest the need for a reevaluation of the role of classical-cytotoxic NK and CD8+ T cells in the pathogenesis of CL, implicating an important role for other T cell subpopulations.
Natural killer (NK) cells are one of the major components of innate immunity, with the ability to mediate antitumor activity. Understanding the role of NK-cell-mediated tumor killing in controlling of solid tumor growth is still in the developmental stage. We have shown recently that bitter melon extract (BME) modulates the regulatory T cell (Treg) population in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). However, the role of BME in NK-cell modulation against HNSCC remains unknown. In this study, we investigated whether BME can enhance the NK-cell killing activity against HNSCC cells. Our results indicated that treatment of human NK-cell line (NK3.3) with BME enhances ability to kill HNSCC cells. BME increases granzyme B accumulation and translocation/accumulation of CD107a/LAMP1 in NK3.3 cells exposed to BME. Furthermore, an increase in cell surface expression of CD16 and NKp30 in BME-treated NK3.3 cells was observed when cocultured with HNSCC cells. Collectively, our results demonstrated for the first time that BME augments NK-cell-mediated HNSCC killing activity, implicating an immunomodulatory role of BME. Cancer Prev Res; 10(6); 337-44. ©2017 AACR.
OBJECTIVES: A separate subset of Granzyme B (GrB) producing B-cells regulating T-cell mediated immunity has been identified. In the present study, we investigated the role of GrB+ B-cells in renal transplant patients (RTX).METHODS: 12 healthy controls (HC) and 26 RTX patients were enrolled. In addition, 19 healthy volunteers treated with cyclosporine A (CsA) were enrolled. GrB+ B-cells were determined via flow cytometry.RESULTS: RTX Patients showed a diminished fraction of GrB+ B-cells as compared to HC. CsA treatment of healthy volunteers had no impact on the development of GrB+ B-cells. RTX patients with a history of allograft rejection showed an increased frequency of GrB+ B-cells. RTX patients with at least one episode of CMV viremia tended to have lower GrB+ B-cells as compared to patients without viremic episodes.CONCLUSION: We demonstrate that treatment with CsA does not impair the development of GrB+ B-cells. GrB+ B-cells may have a dual role in renal transplantation as regulatory cells to maintain allospecific tolerance and as effector cells enhancing viral control.
Trichosanthin is a plant toxin belonging to the family of ribosome-inactivating proteins. It has various biological and pharmacological activities, including anti-tumor and immunoregulatory effects. In this study, we explored the potential medicinal applications of trichosanthin in cancer immunotherapy. We found that trichosanthin and cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor competitively bind to the Golgi-localized, γ-ear containing and Arf-binding proteins. It in turn promotes the translocation of cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor from the cytosol to the plasma membrane, which is a receptor of Granzyme B. The upregulation of this receptor on the tumor cell surface increased the cell permeability to Granzyme B, and the latter is one of the major factors of cytotoxic T lymphocyte-mediated tumor cell apoptosis. These results suggest a novel potential application of trichosanthin and shed light on its anti-tumor immunotherapy.
The use of targeted lipidomic approaches for the analysis of plant lipids has steadily increased during recent years. We review recent developments of these methods and suggest the introduction of discovery lipidomics as additional approach through a new workflow, lipid fingerprinting, that integrates the advantages of shotgun lipidomics (quantitative data) with LC-MS-based strategies (higher resolution and/or coverage). This article is part of a Special Issue entitled:BBALIP_Lipidomics Opinion Articles edited by Sepp Kohlwein.
The effects of chorionic gonadotropin, estriol (E3), leptin, ghrelin, and kisspeptin on the intracellular expression of perforin, granzyme A, and granzyme B was studied in separated NK cells. All studied hormones except E3 are could modulate the expression of cytotoxic enzymes in NK cells by suppression of the expression of the most active proapoptotic agents, resulting in increased expression of granzyme A, which is typical of the decidual subpopulation of these lymphocytes.
The second messenger cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) is essential in the Gram-positive model organism Bacillus subtilis and in related pathogenic bacteria. It controls the activity of the conserved ydaO riboswitch and of several proteins involved in potassium (K+) uptake. We found that the YdaO protein was conserved among several different bacteria and provide evidence that YdaO functions as a K+ transporter. Thus, we renamed the gene and protein KimA (K+ importer A). Reporter activity assays indicated that expression beyond the c-di-AMP-responsive riboswitch of the kimA upstream regulatory region occurred only in bacteria grown in medium containing low K+ concentrations. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analysis indicated that c-di-AMP accumulated in bacteria grown in the presence of high K+ concentrations but not in low concentrations. A bacterial strain lacking all genes encoding c-di-AMP-synthesizing enzymes was viable when grown in medium containing low K+ concentrations, but not at higher K+ concentrations unless it acquired suppressor mutations in the gene encoding the cation exporter NhaK. Thus, our results indicated that the control of potassium homeostasis is an essential function of c-di-AMP.
Despite emerging appreciation for the important role of immune checkpoint receptors in regulating the effector functions of T cells, it is unknown whether their expression is involved in determining the clinical outcome in response to cetuximab therapy. We examined the expression patterns of immune checkpoint receptors (including PD-1, CTLA-4, and TIM-3) and cytolytic molecules (including granzyme B and perforin) of CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) and compared them with those of peripheral blood T lymphocytes (PBL) in patients with head and neck cancer (HNSCC) during cetuximab therapy. The frequency of PD-1 and TIM-3 expression was significantly increased in CD8+ TILs compared with CD8+ PBLs (P = 0.008 and P = 0.02, respectively). This increased CD8+ TIL population coexpressed granzyme B/perforin and PD-1/TIM-3, which suggests a regulatory role for these immune checkpoint receptors in cetuximab-promoting cytolytic activities of CD8+ TILs. Indeed, the increased frequency of PD-1+ and TIM-3+ CD8+ TILs was inversely correlated with clinical outcome of cetuximab therapy. These findings support the use of PD-1 and TIM-3 as biomarkers to reflect immune status of CD8+ T cells in the tumor microenvironment during cetuximab therapy. Blockade of these immune checkpoint receptors might enhance cetuximab-based cancer immunotherapy to reverse CD8+ TIL dysfunction, thus potentially improving clinical outcomes of HNSCC patients. Cancer Immunol Res; 5(5); 408-16. ©2017 AACR.
BACKGROUND: Steroid avoidance in immunosuppression in kidney transplantation offers several metabolic advantages, however it is associated with higher early acute rejection rate. Cellular and molecular mechanisms of this phenomenon remain poorly understood.METHODS: In this single center observational study, low-risk kidney transplant recipients randomized into large multicenter prospective ADVANCE trial with steroid avoidance/early withdrawal and center standard of care treated patients were monitored for 12months. The expressions of 28 transcripts, associated with alloimmune response and operational tolerance, were evaluated in the peripheral blood using RT-qPCR at 0, 7, 14, 90 and 365 postoperative days (POD) and in the protocol graft biopsy at 3months while lymphocyte subpopulations were analyzed by flow-cytometry within the follow-up.RESULTS: Both steroid avoidance and withdrawal regimens were associated with significantly higher granzyme B (GZMB) transcript at POD 14 and perforin 1 (PRF1) transcript at POD 7. The higher interleukin 2 (IL-2) expression at POD 7 was detected only in the steroid avoidance group. Initial steroids decreased the expression SH2D1B transcript at POD14 and there were no further differences in other operational tolerance transcripts among groups. The statistically significant decrease in absolute numbers of peripheral NK cells in the first 14days was observed in the standard of care group only. There were no differences in analyzed intrarenal transcripts in 3-month biopsies among groups.CONCLUSIONS: The enhanced expression of some of Th1 associated transcripts and limited effects on NK cells of steroid avoidance immunosuppression suggest higher susceptibility for early acute rejection.
STUDY OBJECTIVE: The presence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in patients with cancer appears to be accompanied by poorer outcomes. However, the mechanisms underlying such association are unknown. Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), including CD8+ T cells, function as cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and mount immune responses to cancer by the release of cytolytic enzymes, including granzyme B (GzmB), perforin (Prf), and cytokines such as interferon (IFN)-γ.METHODS: Using established in vivo mouse models, we investigated CD8+ T cells and cancer stem cells (CSCs) in intermittent hypoxia (IH) and sleep fragmentation (SF) in the context of tumor environment.RESULTS: Both IH and SF promoted increased tumor growth and invasion toward adjacent tissues compared to controls. The number and frequency of GzmB-producing CD8+ T cells per milligram of tumor tissue was significantly reduced in IH-exposed mice with impaired cytolytic function in both the groups and correlated with tumor weight. We also found that Oct4+ and CD44+CD133+ expressing CSCs were considerably increased in IH and SF tumors, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Reductions in GzmB in intratumoral CD8+ T cells in combination with the changes in tumor microenvironment that maintain the ability of CSCs to self-renew and even confer this capability to the nonstem population are compatible with reduced immunosurveillance and adverse tumor outcomes in animal models of OSA.
We have found that granzyme B (GB)-induced apoptosis also requires reactive oxygen species resulting from the alteration of mitochondrial complex I. How GB, which does not possess a mitochondrial targeting sequence, enter this organelle is unknown. We show that GB enters the mitochondria independently of the translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane complex, but requires instead Sam50, the central subunit of the sorting and assembly machinery that integrates outer membrane β-barrel proteins. Moreover, GB breaches the inner membrane through Tim22, the metabolite carrier translocase pore, in a mitochondrial heat-shock protein 70 (mtHsp70)-dependent manner. Granzyme A (GA) and caspase-3 use a similar route to the mitochondria. Finally, preventing GB from entering the mitochondria either by mutating lysine 243 and arginine 244 or depleting Sam50 renders cells more resistant to GB-mediated reactive oxygen species and cell death. Similarly, Sam50 depletion protects cells from GA-, GM- and caspase-3-mediated cell death. Therefore, cytotoxic molecules enter the mitochondria to induce efficiently cell death through a noncanonical Sam50-, Tim22- and mtHsp70-dependent import pathway.
Comment in    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2017 Aug 15;196 (4):411-413.
Root-knot nematodes are soil-borne pathogens that invade and establish feeding sites in plant roots. They have an extremely broad host range, including most vascular plants. During infection of a susceptible host, root-knot nematodes secrete molecules called effectors that help them establish an intimate interaction with the plant and, at the same time, allow them to evade or suppress plant immune responses. Despite the fact that Meloidogyne hapla is a significant pest on several food crops, no effectors have been characterized from this root-knot nematode species thus far. Using the published genome and proteome from M. hapla, we have identified and characterized two genes, MhTTL2 and Mh265. MhTTL2 encodes a predicted secreted protein containing a transthyretin-like protein domain. The expression of MhTTL2 was up-regulated during parasitic life stages of the nematode, and in situ hybridization showed that MhTTL2 was expressed in the amphids, suggesting it has a role in the nematode nervous system during parasitism. We also studied the gene Mh265. The Mh265 transcript was localized to the subventral esophageal glands. An upregulation in Mh265 expression coincided with the pre- and early-parasitic life stages of the nematode. When Mh265 was constitutively expressed in plants, it enhanced their susceptibility to nematodes. These transgenic plants were also compromised in flg22-induced callose deposition, suggesting the Mh265 is modulating plant basal immune responses.
The porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) is a devastating viral disease affecting swine production, health and welfare throughout the world. A synergistic action of the innate and the adaptive immune system of the host is essential for mounting a durable protective immunity through vaccination. Therefore, the current study aimed to investigate the transcriptome profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to characterize the innate and the adaptive immune response to PRRS Virus (PRRSV) vaccination in Pietrain pigs. The Affymetrix gene chip porcine gene 1.0 ST array was used for the transcriptome profiling of PBMCs collected at immediately before (D0), at one (D1) and 28 days (D28) post PRRSV vaccination with three biological replications. With FDR <0.05 and log2 fold change ±1.5 as cutoff criteria, 295 and 115 transcripts were found to be differentially expressed in PBMCs during the stage of innate and adaptive response, respectively. The microarray expression results were technically validated by qRT-PCR. The gene ontology terms such as viral life cycle, regulation of lymphocyte activation, cytokine activity and inflammatory response were enriched during the innate immunity; cytolysis, T cell mediated cytotoxicity, immunoglobulin production were enriched during adaptive immunity to PRRSV vaccination. Significant enrichment of cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, signaling by interleukins, signaling by the B cell receptor (BCR), viral mRNA translation, IFN-gamma pathway and AP-1 transcription factor network pathways were indicating the involvement of altered genes in the antiviral defense. Network analysis revealed that four network modules were functionally involved with the transcriptional network of innate immunity, and five modules were linked to adaptive immunity in PBMCs. The innate immune transcriptional network was found to be regulated by LCK, STAT3, ATP5B, UBB and RSP17. While TGFß1, IL7R, RAD21, SP1 and GZMB are likely to be predictive for the adaptive immune transcriptional response to PRRSV vaccine in PBMCs. Results of the current immunogenomics study advances our understanding of PRRS in term of host-vaccine interaction, and thereby contribute to design a rationale for disease control strategy.
The aim of this study was to determine the clinical, histological and/or immunohistochemical features that enable differential diagnosis of regression of melanocytic naevi from regression of melanomas. All melanocytic neoplasms with histologically-confirmed regression diagnosed in our hospital between 2002 and 2009 were reviewed retrospectively. Lamellar and delicate fibrosis were associated with melanocytic naevi (p <0.0001 and p = 0.021, respectively). Compact fibrosis, high vessel density and higher number of granzyme B+ lymphocytes were associated with malignant melanoma (p = 0.011, p = 0.005 and p = 0.013, respectively). Density of inflammatory infiltrate (p = 0.016), vascular proliferation (p = 0.005), epidermal atrophy (p = 0.009), rate of apoptosis (p = 0.046) and granzyme B immunoreactivity (p = 0.013) was more common in severe-dysplastic naevi and melanomas than in the remaining melanocytic naevi. Logistic regression demonstrates that 5 variables (age, lamellar fibrosis, melanophages, vessel density, and granzyme B immunostaining) would serve to classify appropriately 87% of melanomas among melanocytic lesions with complete regression.
BACKGROUND: Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) cause not only mild symptoms but also blindness and encephalitis. It was previously shown that the immune response against HSV-1 occurs mainly in the trigeminal ganglia (TG) and that Toll-like receptors 2 and 9 (TLR2/9) are important in mediating this response. It was also demonstrated that iNOS (nitric oxide synthase) and interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β) play an essential role in the defense against HSV-1 infection. Importantly, the present work aimed to identify the primary cells responsible for iNOS and IL-1β production and search for other important molecules and cells that might or might not depend on TLR2/9 receptors to mediate the immune response against HSV-1.METHODS: C57BL/6 (wild type, WT) and TLR2/9-/- mice were infected by the intranasal route with HSV-1 (1 × 106 p.f.u.). Cells were obtained from the TG and spleen tissues and the profile of immune cells was determined by flow cytometry in infected and mock infected WT and knockout mice. The percentage of cells producing iNOS, IL-1β, granzyme B and perforin was also determined by flow cytometry. Chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP1) was measured by Cytometric Bead Array (CBA) in the TG, spleen and lung. Expression of type I interferons (IFNs), interleukins (IL) 5 and 10, IL-1β and granzyme B were quantified by real time PCR.RESULTS: The results indicate that dendritic cells (DCs) and monocytes/macrophages (Mo/Mϕ) were the main sources of IL-1β and iNOS, respectively, which, together with type I IFNs, were essential for the immune response against HSV-1. Additionally, we showed that granzyme B produced by CD8+ T and NK lymphocytes and MCP-1 were also important for this immune response. Moreover, our data indicate that the robust production of MCP-1 and granzyme B is either TLR-independent or down regulated by TLRs and occurs in the TG of TLR2/9-/- infected mice.CONCLUSION: Taken together, our data provide strong evidence that the responses mediated by DCs, Mo/Mϕ, NK and CD8+ T lymphocytes through IL-1β, iNOS and granzyme B production, respectively, together with the production of type I IFN early in the infection, are crucial to host defense against HSV-1.
Cbx3/HP1γ is a histone reader whose function in the immune system is not completely understood. Here, we demonstrate that in CD8+ T cells, Cbx3/HP1γ insufficiency leads to chromatin remodeling accompanied by enhanced Prf1, Gzmb and Ifng expression. In tumors obtained from Cbx3/HP1γ-insufficient mice or wild type mice treated with Cbx3/HP1γ-insufficient CD8+ T cells, there is an increase of CD8+ effector T cells expressing the stimulatory receptor Klrk1/NKG2D, a decrease in CD4+ CD25+ FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Treg cells) as well as CD25+ CD4+ T cells expressing the inhibitory receptor CTLA4. Together these changes in the tumor immune environment may have mitigated tumor burden in Cbx3/HP1γ-insufficient mice or wild type mice treated with Cbx3/HP1γ-insufficient CD8+ T cells. These findings suggest that targeting Cbx3/HP1γ can represent a rational therapeutic approach to control growth of solid tumors.
Behçet's disease (BD) is an autoinflammatory, chronic relapsing/remitting disease of unknown aetiology with both innate and acquired immune cells implicated in disease pathogenesis. Peripheral blood natural killer (NK) cells and their CD56Dim /CD56Bright subsets were surface phenotyped using CD27 and CD16 surface markers in 60 BD patients compared to 60 healthy controls (HCs). Functional potential was assessed by production of interferon (IFN)-γ, granzyme B, perforin and the expression of degranulation marker CD107a. The effects of disease activity (BDActive versus BDQuiet ) and BD medication on NK cells were also investigated. Peripheral blood NK cells (P < 0·0001) and their constituent CD56Dim (P < 0·0001) and CD56Bright (P = 0·0015) subsets were depleted significantly in BD patients compared to HCs, and especially in those with active disease (BDActive ) (P < 0·0001). BD patients taking azathioprine also had significantly depleted NK cells compared to HCs (P < 0·0001). A stepwise multivariate linear regression model confirmed BD activity and azathioprine therapy as significant independent predictor variables of peripheral blood NK percentage (P < 0·001). In general, CD56Dim cells produced more perforin (P < 0·0001) and granzyme B (P < 0·01) expressed higher CD16 levels (P < 0·0001) compared to CD56Bright cells, confirming their increased cytotoxic potential with overall higher NK cell CD107a expression in BD compared to HCs (P < 0·01). Interestingly, IFN-γ production and CD27 expression were not significantly different between CD56Dim /CD56Bright subsets. In conclusion, both BD activity and azathioprine therapy have significant independent depletive effects on the peripheral blood NK cell compartment.
The basidiospores of most Agaricomycetes are ballistospores. They are propelled off from their basidia at maturity when Buller's drop develops at high humidity at the hilar spore appendix and fuses with a liquid film formed on the adaxial side of the spore. Spores are catapulted into the free air space between hymenia and fall then out of the mushroom's cap by gravity. Here we show for 66 different species that ballistospores from mushrooms can be attracted against gravity to electrostatic charged plastic surfaces. Charges on basidiospores can influence this effect. We used this feature to selectively collect basidiospores in sterile plastic Petri-dish lids from mushrooms which were positioned upside-down onto wet paper tissues for spore release into the air. Bulks of 104 to >107 spores were obtained overnight in the plastic lids above the reversed fruiting bodies, between 104 and 106 spores already after 2-4 h incubation. In plating tests on agar medium, we rarely observed in the harvested spore solutions contaminations by other fungi (mostly none to up to in 10% of samples in different test series) and infrequently by bacteria (in between 0 and 22% of samples of test series) which could mostly be suppressed by bactericides. We thus show that it is possible to obtain clean basidiospore samples from wild mushrooms. The technique of spore collection through electrostatic attraction in plastic lids is applicable to fresh lamellate and poroid fruiting bodies from the wild, to short-lived deliquescent mushrooms, to older and dehydrating fleshy fruiting bodies, even to animal-infested mushrooms and also to dry specimens of long-lasting tough species such as Schizophyllum commune.
BACKGROUND: Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is associated with high mortality. Early diagnosis is essential to start treatment and to improve outcomes. Because of the inflammatory nature, we hypothesis that cytokine profile of patients with GVHD may serve as diagnostic markers. The present study was to evaluate the role of cytokine profile in the diagnosis of GVHD.METHODS: An immunoassay was used to detect 29 cytokines simultaneously in the serum; the measuring sensitivity of all cytokines was pg/mL. Healthy subjects undergoing annual routine physical examinations served as negative controls; 23 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who had undergone liver transplantation (the LT group) comprised the test subjects. A total of 22 kidney recipients with biopsy-confirmed GVHD (the RT group) were included for comparison. HCC patients with radical surgery (the HCC group, n=22) served as positive control. The liver contents of the three cytokines, IL-2, IL-18, and IFN-gamma, were detected with immunohistochemistry. Serum granzyme B and perforin were measured by flow cytometry.RESULTS: Of the 29 cytokines, the levels of IL-2 and IL-18 were increased significantly in liver recipients with GVHD compared with healthy controls (P<0.05). The serum levels of these three cytokines in the healthy, HCC, LT, and RT groups were IL-2: 0.90+/-0.02, 4.14+/-0.61, 5.10+/-0.89, and 1.48+/-0.09 pg/mL; IL-18: 80.61+/-9.35, 109.51+/-10.93, 230.11+/-12.92, and 61.98+/-7.88 pg/mL; IFN-gamma: 24.06+/-3.88, 24.84+/-3.21, 40.37+/-5.88, and 15.33+/-4.72 pg/mL, respectively. Immunohistochemistry showed that these 3 cytokines expressions in the liver were parallel to the serum cytokine. After standard anti-GVHD treatment, the expressions of IL-2, IL-18, and IFN-gamma were decreased in the liver (P<0.05). Serum granzyme B and perforin were significantly increased in GVHD patients (P<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: IL-2, IL-18 and IFN-gamma were from liver and might serve as biomarkers for monitoring GVHD development and the effects of anti-GVHD treatment. Granzyme B and perforin may play a role in increasing IL-2, IL-18, and IFN-gamma levels in GVHD patients.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Immunosuppression therapy following lung transplantation fails to prevent chronic rejection in many patients, which is associated with lack of suppression of cytotoxic mediators and pro-inflammatory cytokines in peripheral blood T and natural killer T (NKT)-like cells. Histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs) upregulate/downregulate pro-inflammatory gene expression, respectively; however, differences in the activity of these enzymes following lung transplant are unknown. We hypothesized decreased HDAC2 expression and increased HAT expression in pro-inflammatory lymphocytes following lung transplant.METHODS: Blood was collected from 18 stable lung transplant patients and 10 healthy age-matched controls. Intracellular pro-inflammatory cytokines and HAT/HDAC2 expression were determined in lymphocyte subsets following culture using flow cytometry.RESULTS: A loss of HDAC2 in cluster of differentiation (CD) 8+ T and NKT-like cells in transplant patients compared with controls was noted (CD8+ T: 28 ± 10 (45 ± 10), CD8+NKT-like: 30 ± 13 (54 ± 16) (mean ± SD transplant) (control)). Loss of HDAC2 was associated with an increased percentage of CD8+ T and NKT-like cells expressing perforin, granzyme b, interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and TNF-α (no change in HAT expression in any lymphocyte subset). There was a negative correlation between loss of HDAC2 expression by CD8+ T cells with cumulative dose of prednisolone and time post-transplant. Treatment with 10 mg/L theophylline + 1 µmol/L prednisolone or 2.5 ng/mL cyclosporine A synergistically upregulated HDAC2 and inhibited IFN-γ and TNF-α production by CD8+ T and NKT-like lymphocytes.CONCLUSION: HDAC2 is decreased in CD8+ T and NKT-like pro-inflammatory lymphocytes following lung transplant. Treatment options that increase HDAC2 may improve graft survival.
Cytolytic CD8 T cells play a crucial role in the control and elimination of virus-infected cells and are a major focus of HIV cure efforts. However, it has been shown that HIV-specific CD8 T cells are infrequently found within germinal centers (GCs), a predominant site of active and latent HIV infection. We demonstrate that HIV infection induces marked changes in the phenotype, frequency, and localization of CD8 T cells within the lymph node (LN). Significantly increased frequencies of CD8 T cells in the B cell follicles and GCs were found in LNs from treated and untreated HIV-infected individuals. This profile was associated with persistent local immune activation but did not appear to be directly related to local viral replication. Follicular CD8 (fCD8) T cells, despite compromised cytokine polyfunctionality, showed good cytolytic potential characterized by high ex vivo expression of granzyme B and perforin. We used an anti-HIV/anti-CD3 bispecific antibody in a redirected killing assay and found that fCD8 T cells had better killing activity than did non-fCD8 T cells. Our results indicate that CD8 T cells with potent cytolytic activity are recruited to GCs during HIV infection and, if appropriately redirected to kill HIV-infected cells, could be an effective component of an HIV cure strategy.
Acute Graft-versus-host-disease (aGVHD), the major complication and one of the main causes of poor outcomes of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Nowadays there are no widely accepted cell, plasma or another biomarker that can be used for aGVHD prediction. We hypothesized that a level of Granzyme B-positive T regulatory (GZMB-positive Treg) cells on day+30 after allo-HSCT could be the measure of immune response suppression and could predict aGVHD development after day +30. We applied a widespread and easy-to-perform method of multicolor flow cytometry to measure level of GZMB-positive Treg cells. Levels of GZMB-positive Tregs on day +30 after allo-HSCT were significantly higher in those patients who never developed aGVHD in comparison with the other group of patient with aGVHD after day +30 (p=0.0229). We conclude that the level of GZMB-positive Treg cells is a strong predictor of acute Graft-versus-host disease after day +30 after allo-HSCT.
The DEAH-box helicase Prp43 is a key player in pre-mRNA splicing as well as the maturation of rRNAs. The exact modus operandi of Prp43 and of all other spliceosomal DEAH-box RNA helicases is still elusive. Here, we report crystal structures of Prp43 complexes in different functional states and the analysis of structure-based mutants providing insights into the unwinding and loading mechanism of RNAs. The Prp43•ATP-analog•RNA complex shows the localization of the RNA inside a tunnel formed by the two RecA-like and C-terminal domains. In the ATP-bound state this tunnel can be transformed into a groove prone for RNA binding by large rearrangements of the C-terminal domains. Several conformational changes between the ATP- and ADP-bound states explain the coupling of ATP hydrolysis to RNA translocation, mainly mediated by a β-turn of the RecA1 domain containing the newly identified RF motif. This mechanism is clearly different to those of other RNA helicases.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells establish tolerance, prevent inflammation at mucosal surfaces, and regulate immunopathology during infectious responses. Recent studies have shown that Delta-like ligand 4 (Dll4) was upregulated on APC after respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection, and its inhibition leads to exaggerated immunopathology. In the present study, we outline the role of Dll4 in Treg cell differentiation, stability, and function in RSV infection. We found that Dll4 was expressed on CD11b+ pulmonary dendritic cells in the lung and draining lymph nodes in wild-type BALB/c mice after RSV infection. Dll4 neutralization exacerbated RSV-induced disease pathology, mucus production, group 2 innate lymphoid cell infiltration, IL-5 and IL-13 production, as well as IL-17A+ CD4 T cells. Dll4 inhibition decreased the abundance of CD62LhiCD44loFoxp3+ central Treg cells in draining lymph nodes. The RSV-induced disease was accompanied by an increase in Th17-like effector phenotype in Foxp3+ Treg cells and a decrease in granzyme B expression after Dll4 blockade. Finally, Dll4-exposed induced Treg cells maintained the CD62LhiCD44lo central Treg cell phenotype, had increased Foxp3 expression, became more suppressive, and were resistant to Th17 skewing in vitro. These results suggest that Dll4 activation during differentiation sustained Treg cell phenotype and function to control RSV infection.
OBJECTIVE: Effector CD8+ T cell function is impaired in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and is associated with a compromised ability to fight infections. Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family member 7 (SLAMF7) engagement has been shown to enhance natural killer cell degranulation. This study was undertaken to characterize the expression and function of SLAMF7 on CD8+ T cell subsets isolated from the peripheral blood of SLE patients and healthy subjects.METHODS: CD8+ T cell subset distribution, SLAMF7 expression, and expression of cytolytic enzymes (perforin, granzyme A [GzmA], and GzmB) on cells isolated from SLE patients and healthy controls were analyzed by flow cytometry. CD107a expression and interferon-γ (IFNγ) production in response to viral antigenic stimulation in the presence or absence of an anti-SLAMF7 antibody were assessed by flow cytometry. Antiviral cytotoxic activity in response to SLAMF7 engagement was determined using a flow cytometry-based assay.RESULTS: The distribution of CD8+ T cell subsets was altered in the peripheral blood of SLE patients, with a decreased effector cell subpopulation. Memory CD8+ T cells from SLE patients displayed decreased amounts of SLAMF7, a surface receptor that characterizes effector CD8+ T cells. Ligation of SLAMF7 increased CD8+ T cell degranulation capacity and the percentage of IFNγ-producing cells in response to antigen challenge in SLE patients and healthy controls. Moreover, SLAMF7 engagement promoted cytotoxic lysis of target cells in response to stimulation with viral antigens.CONCLUSION: CD8+ T cell activation in response to viral antigens is defective in SLE patients. Activation of SLAMF7 through a specific monoclonal antibody restores CD8+ T cell antiviral effector function to normal levels and thus represents a potential therapeutic option in SLE.
BACKGROUND: Photosynthetic microalgae are considered a viable and sustainable resource for biofuel feedstocks, because they can produce higher biomass per land area than plants and can be grown on non-arable land. Among many microalgae considered for biofuel production, Nannochloropsis oceanica (CCMP1779) is particularly promising, because following nutrient deprivation it produces very high amounts of triacylglycerols (TAG). The committed step in TAG synthesis is catalyzed by acyl-CoA:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT). Remarkably, a total of 13 putative DGAT-encoding genes have been previously identified in CCMP1779 but most have not yet been studied in detail.RESULTS: Based on their expression profile, six out of 12 type-2 DGAT-encoding genes (NoDGTT1-NoDGTT6) were chosen for their possible role in TAG biosynthesis and the respective cDNAs were expressed in a TAG synthesis-deficient mutant of yeast. Yeast expressing NoDGTT5 accumulated TAG to the highest level. Over-expression of NoDGTT5 in CCMP1779 grown in N-replete medium resulted in levels of TAG normally observed only after N deprivation. Reduced growth rates accompanied NoDGTT5 over-expression in CCMP1779. Constitutive expression of NoDGTT5 in Arabidopsis thaliana was accompanied by increased TAG content in seeds and leaves. A broad substrate specificity for NoDGTT5 was revealed, with preference for unsaturated acyl groups. Furthermore, NoDGTT5 was able to successfully rescue the Arabidopsis tag1-1 mutant by restoring the TAG content in seeds.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results identified NoDGTT5 as the most promising gene for the engineering of TAG synthesis in multiple hosts among the 13 DGAT-encoding genes of N. oceanica CCMP1779. Consequently, this study demonstrates the potential of NoDGTT5 as a tool for enhancing the energy density in biomass by increasing TAG content in transgenic crops used for biofuel production.
PCAF and ADA3 associate within the same macromolecular complexes to control the transcription of many genes, including some that regulate apoptosis. Here we show that PCAF and ADA3 regulate the expression of PACS1, whose protein product is a key component of the machinery that sorts proteins among the trans-Golgi network and the endosomal compartment. We describe a novel role for PACS1 as a regulator of the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis and mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization. Cells with decreased PACS1 expression were refractory to cell death mediated by a variety of stimuli that operate through the mitochondrial pathway, including human granzyme B, staurosporine, ultraviolet radiation and etoposide, but remained sensitive to TRAIL receptor ligation. The mitochondria of protected cells failed to release cytochrome c as a result of perturbed oligomerization of BAX and BAK. We conclude that PCAF and ADA3 transcriptionally regulate PACS1 and that PACS1 is a key regulator of BAX/BAK oligomerization and the intrinsic (mitochondrial) pathway to apoptosis.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are a unique subset of naturally occurring dendritic cells, which triggers the production of large amounts of type I interferons (IFNs) after viral infections through Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 and TLR9. Recent studies have demonstrated that the activation of pDCs kills melanoma cells. However, the role of activated pDCs in breast cancer remains to be determined. In the present study, we generated mouse models of breast cancer and demonstrated that activated pDCs can directly kill breast tumor cells through TRAIL and Granzyme B. Furthermore, we established that pDCs initiate the sequential activation of NK cells and CD8+ T cells, and ultimately inhibit breast tumor growth. Understanding the role of activated pDCs in breast cancer may help to develop new strategies for manipulating the function of pDCs and induce anti-tumor immunity in breast cancer.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) are prominent liver-resident antigen (cross-)presenting cells. LSEC cross-priming of naïve CD8 T cells does not require CD4 T cell help in contrast to priming by dendritic cells (DC) but leads to the formation of memory T cells that is preceded by transient Granzyme B (GzmB) expression. Here we provide evidence for a so far unrecognized CD4 T helper cell function in LSEC-induced CD8 T cell activation.METHODS: Naïve CD8 T cells and differentiated T helper 1 (Th1) cells were stimulated by antigen-presenting LSEC, and GzmB expression in CD8 T cells was determined by flow cytometry. To identify molecular pathways mediating this GzmB expression, mechanistic proof-of-concept experiments were conducted using stimulatory anti-CD3 antibody together with Hyper-IL-6.RESULTS: We demonstrate that LSECs simultaneously function in antigen co-presentation to CD8 and CD4 T cells. Such co-presentation revealed a function of Th1 cells to increase GzmB expression in CD8 T cells after LSEC but not DC cross-priming. IL-2 released from Th1 cells was required but not sufficient for rapid GzmB induction in CD8 T cells. T cell receptor together with IL-6 trans-signaling was necessary for IL-2 to mediate rapid GzmB induction.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that LSECs can serve as a platform to facilitate CD4-CD8 T cell crosstalk enhancing the immune function of LSECs to cross-prime CD8 T cells. IL-6 trans-signaling-mediated responsiveness for IL-2 inducing sustained GzmB expression in CD8 T cells reveals unique mechanisms of CD4 T cell help and CD8 T cell differentiation through liver-resident antigen-presenting cells.LAY SUMMARY: Our findings demonstrate that LSEC co-present antigen to CD8 and CD4 T cells and thereby enable CD4 T cell help for LSEC-priming of CD8 T cells. This CD4 T cell help selectively enhances the rapid upregulation of GzmB and effector function of LSEC-primed CD8 T cells thereby enhancing functional differentiation towards CD8 effector T cells.
Background: Host immune response may predict the course of colorectal cancer. We examined the survival of 468 colorectal cancer patients associated with two tumor-infiltrating immune biomarkers, the number of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), and the activated CTLs, as reflected by the number of cells expressing granzyme B (GZMB) in the prospective Iowa Women's Health Study.Methods: Using paraffin-embedded tissue samples, we constructed and immunostained tumor microarrays with CD8 (for CTL) and GZMB antibodies. We scored CTL and GZMB densities in tumor epithelial and stromal tissues and also created a composite score for each biomarker (sum of the scores across tissue compartments). Cox regression estimated the HR and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for all-cause and colorectal cancer-specific death associated with each composite score.Results: CTL and GZMB composite scores were positively correlated (r = 0.65) and each biomarker was inversely correlated with stage at diagnosis. Both composite scores were higher in proximal colon tumors and tumors characterized by MSI-high, CIMP-high, or BRAF mutation status. HRs (95% CI) were 0.53 (0.38-0.75; Ptrend = 0.0004) and 0.66 (0.51-0.86; Ptrend = 0.002) for all-cause death, respectively, and 0.30 (0.18-0.51; Ptrend < 0.0001) and 0.41 (0.27-0.63; Ptrend < 0.0001) for colorectal cancer-related death, respectively. Including CTL and GZMB scores simultaneously in the model significantly improved the predictive performance of the models for all-cause and colorectal cancer-related death.Conclusions: Higher tumor infiltration with CTL and GZMB cells is associated with improved all-cause and cancer-specific survival of colorectal cancer patients.Impact: Both the number of CTLs and GZMB appear to be useful prognostic factors in colorectal cancer, irrespective of stage. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev; 26(4); 622-31. ©2016 AACR.
Understanding cellular life requires a comprehensive knowledge of the essential cellular functions, the components involved, and their interactions. Minimized genomes are an important tool to gain this knowledge. We have constructed strains of the model bacterium, Bacillus subtilis, whose genomes have been reduced by ∼36%. These strains are fully viable, and their growth rates in complex medium are comparable to those of wild type strains. An in-depth multi-omics analysis of the genome reduced strains revealed how the deletions affect the transcription regulatory network of the cell, translation resource allocation, and metabolism. A comparison of gene counts and resource allocation demonstrates drastic differences in the two parameters, with 50% of the genes using as little as 10% of translation capacity, whereas the 6% essential genes require 57% of the translation resources. Taken together, the results are a valuable resource on gene dispensability in B. subtilis, and they suggest the roads to further genome reduction to approach the final aim of a minimal cell in which all functions are understood.
Nonresolving inflammation is involved in the initiation and progression process of tumorigenesis. Src homology 2 domain-containing tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP2) is known to inhibit acute inflammation but its role in chronic inflammation-associated cancer remains unclear. The role of SHP2 in T cells in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis and azoxymethane-DSS-induced colitis-associated carcinogenesis was examined using SHP2CD4-/- conditional knockout mice. SHP2 deficiency in T cells aggravated colitis with increased level of pro-inflammatory cytokines including IFN-γ and IL-17A. In contrast, the SHP2CD4-/- mice developed much fewer and smaller tumors than wild type mice with higher level of IFN-γ and enhanced cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells in the tumor and peritumoral areas. At the molecular level, STAT1 was hyper-phosphorylated in T cells lacking SHP2, which may account for the increased Th1 differentiation and IFN-γ secretion. IFN-γ neutralization or IFN-γ receptor knockout but not IL-17A neutralization, abrogated the anti-tumor effect of SHP2 knockout with lowered levels of perforin 1, FasL and granzyme B. Finally, the expression of granzyme B was negatively correlated with the malignancy of colon cancer in human patients. In conclusion, these findings suggest a new strategy to treat colitis-associated cancer via targeting SHP2.
Mdm2 is the key negative regulator of the tumour suppressor p53, making it an attractive target for anti-cancer drug design. We recently identified a new role of Mdm2 in gene repression through its direct interaction with several proteins of the polycomb group (PcG) family. PcG proteins form polycomb repressive complexes PRC1 and PRC2. PRC2 (via EZH2) mediates histone 3 lysine 27 (H3K27) trimethylation, and PRC1 (via RING1B) mediates histone 2A lysine 119 (H2AK119) monoubiquitination. Both PRCs mostly support a compact and transcriptionally silent chromatin structure. We found that Mdm2 regulates a gene expression profile similar to that of PRC2 independent of p53. Moreover, Mdm2 promotes the stemness of murine induced pluripotent stem cells and human mesenchymal stem cells, and supports the survival of tumour cells. Mdm2 is recruited to target gene promoters by the PRC2 member and histone methyltransferase EZH2, and enhances PRC-dependent repressive chromatin modifications, specifically H3K27me3 and H2AK119ub1. Mdm2 also cooperates in gene repression with the PRC1 protein RING1B, a H2AK119 ubiquitin ligase. Here we discuss the possible implications of these p53-independent functions of Mdm2 in chromatin dynamics and in the stem cell phenotype. We propose that the p53-independent functions of Mdm2 should be taken into account for cancer drug design. So far, the majority of clinically tested Mdm2 inhibitors target its binding to p53 but do not affect the new functions of Mdm2 described here. However, when targeting the E3 ligase activity of Mdm2, a broader spectrum of its oncogenic activities might become druggable.
The DEAH-box NTPase Prp43 disassembles spliceosomes in co-operation with the cofactors Ntr1/Spp382 and Ntr2, forming the NTR complex. How Prp43 is regulated by its cofactors to discard selectively only intron-lariat spliceosomes (ILS) and defective spliceosomes and to prevent disassembly of earlier and properly assembled/wild-type spliceosomes remains unclear. First, we show that Ntr1΄s G-patch motif (Ntr1GP) can be replaced by the GP motif of Pfa1/Sqs1, a Prp43΄s cofactor in ribosome biogenesis, demonstrating that the specific function of Ntr1GP is to activate Prp43 for spliceosome disassembly and not to guide Prp43 to its binding site in the spliceosome. Furthermore, we show that Ntr1΄s C-terminal domain (CTD) plays a safeguarding role by preventing Prp43 from disrupting wild-type spliceosomes other than the ILS. Ntr1 and Ntr2 can also discriminate between wild-type and defective spliceosomes. In both type of spliceosomes, Ntr1-CTD impedes Prp43-mediated disassembly while the Ntr1GP promotes disassembly. Intriguingly, Ntr2 plays a specific role in defective spliceosomes, likely by stabilizing Ntr1 and allowing Prp43 to enter a productive interaction with the GP motif of Ntr1. Our data indicate that Ntr1 and Ntr2 act as 'doorkeepers' and suggest that both cofactors inspect the RNP structure of spliceosomal complexes thereby targeting suboptimal spliceosomes for Prp43-mediated disassembly.
Jasmonic acid is a plant hormone that can be produced by the fungus Lasiodiplodia theobromae via submerged fermentation. From a biotechnological perspective jasmonic acid is a valuable feedstock as its derivatives serve as important ingredients in different cosmetic products and in the future it may be used for pharmaceutical applications. The objective of this work was to improve the production of jasmonic acid by L. theobromae strain 2334. We observed that jasmonic acid formation is dependent on the culture volume. Moreover, cultures grown in medium containing potassium nitrate as nitrogen source produced higher amounts of jasmonic acid than analogous cultures supplemented with ammonium nitrate. When cultivated under optimal conditions for jasmonic acid production, L. theobromae secreted several secondary metabolites known from plants into the medium. Among those we found 3-oxo-2-(pent-2-enyl)-cyclopentane-1-butanoic acid (OPC-4) and hydroxy-jasmonic acid derivatives, respectively, suggesting that fungal jasmonate metabolism may involve similar reaction steps as that of plants. To characterize fungal growth and jasmonic acid-formation, we established a mathematical model describing both processes. This model may form the basis of industrial upscaling attempts. Importantly, it showed that jasmonic acid-formation is not associated to fungal growth. Therefore, this finding suggests that jasmonic acid, despite its enormous amount being produced upon fungal development, serves merely as secondary metabolite.
We assessed cell subsets and expression of a set of genes related to the T-cell populations in peripheral blood mononuclear cells to elucidate whether immune status of stable hand transplant recipients (HTx) differs from stable kidney transplant recipients (KTx). The study was conducted on five HTx 4.8 ± 1.7 years after transplantation and 30 stable KTx 7.9 ± 2.4 years after transplantation as well as 18 healthy volunteers. The research involved PBMC gene expression analysis of CD4, CD8, CTLA4, GZMB, FOXP3, IL10, IL4, ILR2A, NOTCH, PDCD1, PRF1, TGF-B, and TNF-A genes on a custom-designed low-density array (TaqMan) as well as flow cytometry assessment of lymphocyte subpopulations. HTx presented significantly increased expression of immunomodulatory genes (TNF, IL10, GITR, and PDCD1) compared to KTx and controls. HTx revealed a proinflammatory molecular pattern with higher expression of NOTCH and CD8 compared to KTx and controls. KTx showed a reduced level of regulatory T cells compared to controls and HTx. Both HTx and KTx presented an increased number of CD8+ and CD8+ CD28- T cells compared to controls. Stable hand transplant recipients exhibit persistent immune activation with rejection-related gene expression pattern counterbalanced by secondary induction of regulatory mechanisms.
The recent spread of Zika virus (ZIKV) and its association with increased rates of Guillain Barre and other neurological disorders as well as congenital defects that include microcephaly has created an urgent need to develop animal models to examine the pathogenesis of the disease and explore the efficacy of potential therapeutics and vaccines. Recently developed infection models for ZIKV utilize mice defective in interferon responses. In this study we establish and characterize a new model of peripheral ZIKV infection using immunocompetent neonatal C57BL/6 mice and compare its clinical progression, virus distribution, immune response, and neuropathology with that of C57BL/6-IFNAR KO mice. We show that while ZIKV infected IFNAR KO mice develop bilateral hind limb paralysis and die 5-6 days post-infection (dpi), immunocompetent B6 WT mice develop signs of neurological disease including unsteady gait, kinetic tremors, severe ataxia and seizures by 13 dpi that subside gradually over 2 weeks. Immunohistochemistry show viral antigen predominantly in cerebellum at the peak of the disease in both models. However, whereas IFNAR KO mice showed infiltration by neutrophils and macrophages and higher expression of IL-1, IL-6 and Cox2, B6 WT mice show a cellular infiltration in the CNS composed predominantly of T cells, particularly CD8+ T cells, and increased mRNA expression levels of IFNg, GzmB and Prf1 at peak of disease. Lastly, the CNS of B6 WT mice shows evidence of neurodegeneration predominantly in the cerebellum that are less prominent in mice lacking the IFN response possibly due to the difference in cellular infiltrates and rapid progression of the disease in that model. The development of the B6 WT model of ZIKV infection will provide insight into the immunopathology of the virus and facilitate assessments of possible therapeutics and vaccines.
T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain 3(TIM3) is a negative regulator of cellular immunity and it is highly expressed on CD8+T cells in persistent viral infection and cancer setting as report. However, how TIM3 expressed on CD8+T cells in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), that is a malignant disorder, has not been clarified. Here, decreased CD8+T cells, less IFN-γ secretion in CD8+T cells and increased TIM3 on CD8+T cells had been seen. Increased TIM3+CD8+T cells with lower perforin and granzyme B expression and higher CD95 expression in MDS patients had been observed. These findings suggested that TIM3 might be related to CD8+T cells defect. Therefore, further explorations about mechanism of TIM3+CD8+T cells defect are needed, which might be helpful for adoptive T-cell therapy in MDS.
In all domains of life, selenocysteine (Sec) is delivered to the ribosome by selenocysteine-specific tRNA (tRNASec) with the help of a specialized translation factor, SelB in bacteria. Sec-tRNASec recodes a UGA stop codon next to a downstream mRNA stem-loop. Here we present the structures of six intermediates on the pathway of UGA recoding in Escherichia coli by single-particle cryo-electron microscopy. The structures explain the specificity of Sec-tRNASec binding by SelB and show large-scale rearrangements of Sec-tRNASec. Upon initial binding of SelB-Sec-tRNASec to the ribosome and codon reading, the 30S subunit adopts an open conformation with Sec-tRNASec covering the sarcin-ricin loop (SRL) on the 50S subunit. Subsequent codon recognition results in a local closure of the decoding site, which moves Sec-tRNASec away from the SRL and triggers a global closure of the 30S subunit shoulder domain. As a consequence, SelB docks on the SRL, activating the GTPase of SelB. These results reveal how codon recognition triggers GTPase activation in translational GTPases.
Erratum in    Cell Death Differ. 2019 Mar;26(4):780.
p53 induces cell death upon DNA damage, but this may not confer all of its tumor suppressor activity. We report that p53 activation enhances the processivity of DNA replication, as monitored by multi-label fiber assays, whereas removal of p53 reduces fork progression. This is observed in tumor-derived U2OS cells but also in murine embryonic fibroblasts with heterozygous or homozygous p53 deletion and in freshly isolated thymocytes from mice with differential p53 status. Mdm2, a p53-inducible gene product, similarly supports DNA replication even in p53-deficient cells, suggesting that sustained Mdm2-expression is at least one of the mechanisms allowing p53 to prevent replicative stress. Thus, p53 helps to protect the genome during S phase, by preventing the occurrence of stalled or collapsed replication forks. These results expand p53's tumor-suppressive functions, adding to the ex-post model (elimination of damaged cells) an ex-ante activity; i.e., the prevention of DNA damage during replication.
WD40 repeat proteins fold into characteristic β-propeller structures and control signaling circuits during cellular adaptation processes within eukaryotes. The RACK1 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Asc1p, consists exclusively of a single seven-bladed β-propeller that operates from the ribosomal base at the head region of the 40S subunit. Here we show that the R38D K40E ribosomal binding-compromised variant (Asc1DEp) is severely destabilized through mutation of phosphosite T143 to a dephosphorylation-mimicking alanine, probably through proteasomal degradation, leading to asc1- phenotypes. Phosphosite Y250 contributes to resistance to translational inhibitors but does not influence Asc1DEp stability. Beyond its own phosphorylation at T143, Y250, and other sites, Asc1p heavily influences the phosphorylation of as many as 90 proteins at 120 sites. Many of these proteins are regulators of fundamental processes ranging from mRNA translation to protein transport and turnover, cytoskeleton organization, and cellular signaling. Our data expose Asc1p/RACK1 as a key factor in phosphosignaling and manifest it as a control point at the head of the ribosomal 40S subunit itself regulated through posttranslational modification.
CD4+ T cells develop distinct and often contrasting helper, regulatory, or cytotoxic activities. Typically a property of CD8+ T cells, granzyme-mediated cytotoxic T cell (CTL) potential is also exerted by CD4+ T cells. However, the conditions that induce CD4+ CTLs are not entirely understood. Using single-cell transcriptional profiling, we uncover a unique signature of Granzyme B (GzmB)+ CD4+ CTLs, which distinguishes them from other CD4+ T helper (Th) cells, including Th1 cells, and strongly contrasts with the follicular helper T (Tfh) cell signature. The balance between CD4+ CTL and Tfh differentiation heavily depends on the class of infecting virus and is jointly regulated by the Tfh-related transcription factors Bcl6 and Tcf7 (encoding TCF-1) and by the expression of the inhibitory receptors PD-1 and LAG3. This unique profile of CD4+ CTLs offers targets for their study, and its antagonism by the Tfh program separates CD4+ T cells with either helper or killer functions.
Cancer-germline genes in both humans and mice have been shown to encode antigens susceptible to targeting by cytotoxic CD8 T effector cells (CTL). We analysed the ability of CTL to kill different tumour cell lines expressing the same cancer-germline gene P1A (Trap1a). We previously demonstrated that CTL expressing a T-cell receptor specific for the P1A35-43 peptide associated with H-2Ld , although able to induce regression of P1A-expressing P815 mastocytoma cells, were much less effective against P1A-expressing melanoma cells. Here, we analysed parameters of the in vitro interaction between P1A-specific CTL and mastocytoma or melanoma cells expressing similar levels of the P1A gene and of surface H-2Ld . The mastocytoma cells were more sensitive to cytolysis than the melanoma cells in vitro. Analysis by video-microscopy of early events required for target cell killing showed that similar patterns of increase in cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+ ]i) were induced by both types of P1A-expressing tumour cells. However, the use of CTL expressing a fluorescent granzyme B (GZMB-Tom) showed a delay in the migration of cytotoxic granules to the tumour interaction site, as well as a partially deficient GZMB-Tom exocytosis in response to the melanoma cells. Among surface molecules possibly affecting tumour-CTL interactions, the mastocytoma cells were found to express intercellular adhesion molecule-1, the ligand for LFA-1, which was not detected on the melanoma cells.
Functional cytotoxic-T-lymphocytes (CTL) with granzyme B play an important role in an effective immune response to tumor growth and infection progression. Tumor cells and platelets in peripheral whole blood smears of cancer patients have shown the presence of innate binding targets for GP1R, a fluorescent synthetic Granzyme B-like peptide. It is not known if similar GP1R-binding targets and specific binding patterns are detectable in peripheral blood of patients with viral infection. It is also not known if a specific binding pattern may be associated with an effective immune response to indicate a favorable prognosis. We reviewed the GP1R-binding patterns in the peripheral blood smears of 5 patients in remission at the time of sampling (3 with cancer and 2 with flu-like symptoms) and a negative control. We show with fluoroscopic images that there are: 1) fluorescent GP1R-binding targets mostly in the cytoplasmic areas of nucleated cells in patients with breast and lung cancer who have longer survival, 2) intense fluorescent deposits mostly in the nuclear areas of segmented neutrophils in patients recovered from severe to mild flu-like symptoms, 3) discernible fluorescent deposits in the cytoplasmic areas of small lymphocyte-like elements and overall intense fluorescent stain in large cells in the patient with advanced pancreatic cancer who had shorter survival, 4) GP1R-binding targets in numerous platelet-like elements in all 5 patients. The control sample did not show similar binding patterns. The potential association between specific GP1R-binding patterns in peripheral blood samples and prognostic significance, and its use as liquid biopsy are discussed.
Genetic rearrangements are a hallmark of several forms of leukemia and can lead to oncogenic fusion proteins. One example of an affected chromosomal region is the gene coding for Nup214, a nucleoporin that localizes to the cytoplasmic side of the nuclear pore complex (NPC). We investigated two such fusion proteins, SET-Nup214 and SQSTM1 (sequestosome)-Nup214, both containing C-terminal portions of Nup214. SET-Nup214 nuclear bodies containing the nuclear export receptor CRM1 were observed in the leukemia cell lines LOUCY and MEGAL. Overexpression of SET-Nup214 in HeLa cells leads to the formation of similar nuclear bodies that recruit CRM1, export cargo proteins, and certain nucleoporins and concomitantly affect nuclear protein and poly(A)+ RNA export. SQSTM1-Nup214, although mostly cytoplasmic, also forms nuclear bodies and inhibits nuclear protein but not poly(A)+ RNA export. The interaction of the fusion proteins with CRM1 is RanGTP-dependent, as shown in co-immunoprecipitation experiments and binding assays. Further analysis revealed that the Nup214 parts mediate the inhibition of nuclear export, whereas the SET or SQSTM1 part determines the localization of the fusion protein and therefore the extent of the effect. SET-Nup214 nuclear bodies are highly mobile structures, which are in equilibrium with the nucleoplasm in interphase and disassemble during mitosis or upon treatment of cells with the CRM1-inhibitor leptomycin B. Strikingly, we found that nucleoporins can be released from nuclear bodies and reintegrated into existing NPC. Our results point to nuclear bodies as a means of preventing the formation of potentially insoluble and harmful protein aggregates that also may serve as storage compartments for nuclear transport factors.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by the proliferation of immature myeloid lineage blasts. Due to its heterogeneity and to the high rate of acquired drug resistance and relapse, new treatment strategies are needed. Here, we demonstrate that IFNγ promotes AML blasts to act as effector cells within the context of antibody therapy. Treatment with IFNγ drove AML blasts toward a more differentiated state, wherein they showed increased expression of the M1-related markers HLA-DR and CD86, as well as of FcγRI, which mediates effector responses to therapeutic antibodies. Importantly, IFNγ was able to up-regulate CD38, the target of the therapeutic antibody daratumumab. Because the antigen (CD38) and effector receptor (FcγRI) were both simultaneously up-regulated on the AML blasts, we tested whether IFNγ treatment of the AML cell lines THP-1 and MV4-11 could stimulate them to target one another after the addition of daratumumab. Results showed that IFNγ significantly increased daratumumab-mediated cytotoxicity, as measured both by 51Cr release and lactate dehydrogenase release assays. We also found that the combination of IFNγ and activation of FcγR led to the release of granzyme B by AML cells. Finally, using a murine NSG model of subcutaneous AML, we found that treatment with IFNγ plus daratumumab significantly attenuated tumor growth. Taken together, these studies show a novel mechanism of daratumumab-mediated killing and a possible new therapeutic strategy for AML.
Granzyme B (GzmB) is a key cytotoxic molecule utilized by T cells to kill pathogen-infected cells or transformed tumor cells. Previous studies using allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) murine models showed that GzmB is required for CD8+ T cells to cause graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). However, our recent study demonstrated that GzmB-mediated damage of CD8+ T cells diminished their graft-versus-tumor (GVT) activity. In this study, we examined the role of GzmB in GVT effect mediated by conventional CD4+CD25- T cells (CD4+ Tcon). GzmB-/-CD4+ Tcon cells exhibited decreased GVT activity compared to wild-type (WT) CD4+ Tcon cells, suggesting that GzmB is required for the optimal GVT activity of CD4+ Tcon cells. On the other hand, GzmB-/- CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells were as suppressive as WT regulatory T cells in suppressing GVT activity, which is consistent with our previous report showing that GzmB is not required for regulatory T cell-mediated suppression of GVHD. These results demonstrate that GzmB causes opposite impacts on GVT effect mediated by CD4+CD25- versus CD8+ T cells. Interestingly, GzmB-/- total T cells exhibited GVT activity equivalent to that of WT total T cells, suggesting that the opposite impacts of GzmB on the GVT effect of CD4+CD25- versus CD8+ T cells may neutralize each other, which can only be observed when an individual T cell subset is examined. Importantly, these differential roles suggest that targeting GzmB in selective T cell subsets may have the potential to enhance the beneficial GVT effect.
Immune cell-derived cytotoxic pathways have been implicated in antitumor immune responses. The goal of this study is to characterize how these cytotoxic pathways influence ovarian cancer development. We have utilized the TgMISIIR-TAg transgenic mouse model which expresses the transforming SV40 TAg in the ovary, leading to spontaneous development of ovarian tumors that closely mimic human epithelial ovarian cancer. To test how perforin (Prf1), granzyme B (GzmB) and interferon-gamma (IFNg) impact tumor occurrence and progression, we bred the TgMISIIR-TAg transgene into Prf1-/-, GzmB-/-, and IFNgR1-/- mice. The transgenic females developed peritoneal tumors at 9-15 weeks and succumbed at 184 ± 37 days of age with 100% penetrance (n=41). Knockout of these cytotoxic genes does not affect tumor occurrence. However, loss of function in the IFNg signaling pathway significantly expedited tumor progression with all of the IFNg R1-/- TgMISIIR-TAg females succumbing to tumor outgrowth at 167 ± 27 days of age (p=0.0074, n=24). In contrast, loss of function of Prf1 or GzmB did not significantly impact tumor progression and host survival. Since tumor cells in the IFNg R1-/- TgMISIIR-TAg mice are IFNg R1 deficient, we used the implantable MOSEC (mouse ovarian surface epithelial cell) tumor line to validate that IFNg R signaling in host immune cells but not in tumor cells impacts tumor progression. Indeed, when the IFNg -responsive MOSEC cells were inoculated, IFNg R1-/- mice exhibited significantly higher tumor burden compared to WT mice. Furthermore, a MOSEC-splenocyte co-culture system confirmed that IFNg R1-/- immune cells were less effective than WT immune cells in controlling MOSEC tumor growth in vitro. Together, these results indicate that the IFNg R signaling pathway plays an important role in restraining murine ovarian tumor progression.
Most recent studies of spider embryonic development have focused on representatives of the species-rich group of entelegyne spiders (over 80 % of all extant species). Embryogenesis in the smaller spider groups, however, is less well studied. Here, we describe the development of the germ band in the spider species Pholcus phalangioides, a representative of the haplogyne spiders that are phylogenetically the sister group of the entelegyne spiders. We show that the transition from radially symmetric embryonic anlage to the bilaterally symmetric germ band involves the accumulation of cells in the centre of the embryonic anlage (primary thickening). These cells then disperse all across the embryonic anlage. A secondary thickening of cells then appears in the centre of the embryonic anlage, and this thickening expands and forms the segment addition zone. We also confirm that the major part of the opisthosoma initially develops as a tube shaped structure, and its segments are then sequentially folded down on the yolk during inversion. This special mode of opisthosoma formation has not been reported for entelegyne spiders, but a more comprehensive sampling of this diverse group is necessary to decide whether this peculiarity is indeed lacking in the entelegyne spiders.
Approximately 30% of patients treated with ipilimumab will develop gastrointestinal toxicity. The immunological drivers that underpin the clinical observations in human tissues are poorly understood. We report here on the immune consequences of ipilimumab treatment in the colorectal mucosa of patients with treatment-related colitis. Using immunohistochemistry, we evaluated the immune infiltrate by CD8+, FoxP3, and granzyme B (GzmB) in colonic biopsies from 20 patients with ipilimumab-related colitis. We assessed 10 cases with normal colon biopsies for comparison. In eight cases (four on steroids only, four on steroids and infliximab), we evaluated two sequential biopsies. We observed that CD8+, FoxP3+, and GzmB T cell counts were significantly higher in patients with ipilimumab-related colitis compared to normal colon (p < 0.0001). Patients who required infliximab for the resolution of their colitis had a significantly higher CD8+/FoxP3 ratio than those treated only with steroids and this correlated with clinical severity. The analysis of repeat samples revealed that resolution of the colitis was associated with a decrease in CD8+ and FoxP3+ cells both in patients treated with steroids and infliximab. Our data suggest that counts of cytotoxic T cells and Tregs in the colonic mucosa from patients with ipilimumab-related colitis correlate with clinical findings and may predict severity and guide management.
Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) migrating from the skin to the draining lymph node (dLN) have a strong immunosuppressive effect on the cutaneous immune response. However, the subpopulations responsible for their inhibitory function remain unclear. We investigated single-cell gene expression heterogeneity in Tregs from the dLN of inflamed skin in a contact hypersensitivity model. The immunosuppressive genes Ctla4 and Tgfb1 were expressed in the majority of Tregs. Although Il10-expressing Tregs were rare, unexpectedly, the majority of Il10-expressing Tregs co-expressed Gzmb and displayed Th1-skewing. Single-cell profiling revealed that CD43+ CCR5+ Tregs represented the main subset within the Il10/Gzmb-expressing cell population in the dLN. Moreover, CD43+ CCR5+ CXCR3- Tregs expressed skin-tropic chemokine receptors, were preferentially retained in inflamed skin and downregulated the cutaneous immune response. The identification of a rare Treg subset co-expressing multiple immunosuppressive molecules and having tissue-remaining capacity offers a novel strategy for the control of skin inflammatory responses.
BACKGROUND: The red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum is an emerging insect model organism representing the largest insect order, Coleoptera, which encompasses several serious agricultural and forest pests. Despite the ecological and economic importance of beetles, most insect olfaction studies have so far focused on dipteran, lepidopteran, or hymenopteran systems.RESULTS: Here, we present the first detailed morphological description of a coleopteran olfactory pathway in combination with genome-wide expression analysis of the relevant gene families involved in chemoreception. Our study revealed that besides the antennae, also the mouthparts are highly involved in olfaction and that their respective contribution is processed separately. In this beetle, olfactory sensory neurons from the mouthparts project to the lobus glomerulatus, a structure so far only characterized in hemimetabolous insects, as well as to a so far non-described unpaired glomerularly organized olfactory neuropil in the gnathal ganglion, which we term the gnathal olfactory center. The high number of functional odorant receptor genes expressed in the mouthparts also supports the importance of the maxillary and labial palps in olfaction of this beetle. Moreover, gustatory perception seems equally distributed between antenna and mouthparts, since the number of expressed gustatory receptors is similar for both organs.CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis of the T. castaneum chemosensory system confirms that olfactory and gustatory perception are not organotopically separated to the antennae and mouthparts, respectively. The identification of additional olfactory processing centers, the lobus glomerulatus and the gnathal olfactory center, is in contrast to the current picture that in holometabolous insects all olfactory inputs allegedly converge in the antennal lobe. These findings indicate that Holometabola have evolved a wider variety of solutions to chemoreception than previously assumed.
Plasmodesmata (PD) are microscopic pores connecting plant cells and enable cell-to-cell transport. Currently, little information is known about the molecular mechanisms regulating PD formation and development. To uncover components of PD development we made use of the 17 kDa movement protein (MP17) encoded by the Potato leafroll virus (PLRV). The protein is required for cell-to-cell movement of the virus and localises to complex PD. Forward genetic screening for Arabidopsis mutants with altered PD binding of MP17 revealed several mutant lines, while molecular genetics, biochemical and microscopic studies allowed further characterisation. Map-based cloning of one mutant revealed a point mutation in the choline transporter-like 1 (CHER1) protein, changing glycine247 into glutamate. Mutation in CHER1 resulted in a starch excess phenotype and stunted growth. Ultrastructure analysis of shoot apical meristems, developing and fully developed leaves showed reduced PD numbers and the absence of complex PD in fully developed leaves. This indicates that cher1 mutants are impaired in PD formation and development. Global lipid profiling revealed only slight modifications in the overall lipid composition, however, altered composition of PD-associated lipids cannot be ruled out. Thus, cher1 is devoid of complex PD in developed leaves and provides insights into the formation of complex PD at the molecular level.
Oleaginous microalgae are considered as a promising resource for the production of biofuels. Especially diatoms arouse interest as biofuel producers since they are most productive in carbon fixation and very flexible to environmental changes in the nature. Naturally, triacylglycerol (TAG) accumulation in algae only occurs under stress conditions like nitrogen-limitation. We focused on Phaeodactylum strain Pt4 (UTEX 646), because of its ability to grow in medium with low salinity and therefore being suited when saline water is less available or for wastewater cultivation strategies. Our data show an increase in neutral lipids during nitrogen-depletion and predominantly 16:0 and 16:1(n-7) accumulated in the TAG fraction. The molecular species composition of TAG suggests a remodeling primarily from the betaine lipid diacylglyceroltrimethylhomoserine (DGTS), but a contribution of the chloroplast galactolipid monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) cannot be excluded. Interestingly, the acyl-CoA pool is rich in 20:5(n-3) and 22:6(n-3) in all analyzed conditions, but these fatty acids are almost excluded from TAG. Other metabolites most obviously depleted under nitrogen-starvation were amino acids, lyso-phospholipids and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates, whereas sulfur-containing metabolites as dimethylsulfoniopropionate, dimethylsulfoniobutyrate and methylsulfate as well as short acyl chain carnitines, propanoyl-carnitine and butanoyl-carnitine increased upon nitrogen-starvation. Moreover, the Calvin cycle may be de-regulated since sedoheptulose accumulated after nitrogen-depletion. Together the data provide now the basis for new strategies to improve lipid production and storage in Phaeodactylum strain Pt4.
Proteolysis of autoantigens can alter normal MHC class II antigen processing and has been implicated in the induction of autoimmune diseases. Many autoantigens are substrates for the protease granzyme B (GrB), but the mechanistic significance of this association is unknown. Peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) is a frequent target of autoantibodies in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and a substrate for GrB. RA is strongly associated with specific MHC class II alleles, and elevated levels of GrB and PAD4 are found in the joints of RA patients, suggesting that GrB may alter the presentation of PAD4 by RA-associated class II alleles. In this study, complementary proteomic and immunologic approaches were utilized to define the effects of GrB cleavage on the structure, processing, and immunogenicity of PAD4. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange and a cell-free MHC class II antigen processing system revealed that proteolysis of PAD4 by GrB induced discrete structural changes in PAD4 that promoted enhanced presentation of several immunogenic peptides capable of stimulating PAD4-specific CD4+ T cells from patients with RA. This work demonstrates the existence of PAD4-specific T cells in patients with RA and supports a mechanistic role for GrB in enhancing the presentation of autoantigenic CD4+ T cell epitopes.
Protein arginine methyltransferase 3 (PRMT3) forms a stable complex with 40S ribosomal protein S2 (RPS2) and contributes to ribosome biogenesis. However, the molecular mechanism by which PRMT3 influences ribosome biogenesis and/or function still remains unclear. Using quantitative proteomics, we identified human programmed cell death 2-like (PDCD2L) as a novel PRMT3-associated protein. Our data suggest that RPS2 promotes the formation of a conserved extraribosomal complex with PRMT3 and PDCD2L. We also show that PDCD2L associates with 40S subunit precursors that contain a 3'-extended form of the 18S rRNA (18S-E pre-rRNA) and several pre-40S maturation factors. PDCD2L shuttles between the nucleus and the cytoplasm in a CRM1-dependent manner using a leucine-rich nuclear export signal that is sufficient to direct the export of a reporter protein. Although PDCD2L is not required for the biogenesis and export of 40S ribosomal subunits, we found that PDCD2L-null cells accumulate free 60S ribosomal subunits, which is indicative of a deficiency in 40S subunit availability. Our data also indicate that PDCD2L and its paralog, PDCD2, function redundantly in 40S ribosomal subunit production. Our findings uncover the existence of an extraribosomal complex consisting of PDCD2L, RPS2, and PRMT3 and support a role for PDCD2L in the late maturation of 40S ribosomal subunits.
We previously reported on a 26-year-old patient who presented early during a large and eventually fatal cerebral infarct. Microarray analysis of blood samples from this patient demonstrated initially up-regulated and subsequently down-regulated Granzyme B (GzmB) expression, along with progressive up-regulation of genes for S100 calcium binding protein A12 (S100A12) and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9). To confirm these findings, we investigated these parameters in patients with suspected stroke presenting within 6h of symptom onset to a single centre. Blood samples were taken at enrolment, then 1h, 3h and 24h post-enrolment for the examination of cellular, protein and genetic changes. Patients with subsequently confirmed ischaemic (n=18) or haemorrhagic stroke (n=11) showed increased intracellular concentrations of GzmB in all cell populations investigated (CD8+, CD8- and Natural Killer [NK] cells). Infarct patients, however, demonstrated significantly reduced GzmB gene expression and increased circulating MMP-9 and S100A12 levels in contrast to transient ischaemic attack (TIA) patients or healthy controls. Furthermore, a pronounced neutrophilia was noted in the infarct and haemorrhage groups, while TIA patients (n=9) reflected healthy controls (n=10). These findings suggest a spectrum of immune response during stroke. TIA showed few immunological changes in comparison to infarct and haemorrhage, which demonstrated inhibition of GzmB production and a rise in neutrophil numbers and neutrophil-associated mediators. This implies a greater role of the innate immune system. These markers may provide novel targets for inhibition and reduction of secondary injury.
Comment in    Cell. 2016 Oct 6;167(2):308-310.
BACKGROUND: Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a multifactorial inflammatory skin disease characterized by skin barrier dysfunction, allergic inflammation and intractable pruritus resistant to conventional antipruritic treatments, including H1-antihistamines. Granzymes (Gzms) are a family of serine proteases expressed by cytotoxic T lymphocytes and natural killer cells that have been shown to modulate inflammation. However, the relationship between Gzms and pathology in AD remains unclear.OBJECTIVE: This study assessed the correlation between plasma GzmB levels and severity of pruritus and dermatitis, in AD patients.METHODS: Plasma was collected from 46 patients with AD, 24 patients with psoriasis, and 30 healthy controls. AD severity was assessed with the scoring atopic dermatitis (SCORAD) index, psoriasis severity with the psoriasis area and severity index (PASI), and degree of pruritus by visual analogue scale (VAS) score. GzmA, GzmB and gastrin releasing peptide (GRP) levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays.RESULTS: Plasma GzmB concentrations were significantly higher in patients with AD and psoriasis than in healthy controls. Correlation analyses showed that plasma GzmB concentrations positively correlated with SCORAD and serum levels of severity markers such as thymus and activation-regulated chemokine, and lactate dehydrogenase in AD patients. Moreover, plasma levels of GRP, an itch-related peptide, were higher in patients with AD, positively correlating with VAS score and plasma GzmB level. In addition, plasma GzmB concentration was significantly lower in the treatment group than the untreated group with AD. Meanwhile, there were no correlations among GzmB levels, VAS score and PASI score in patients with psoriasis. In contrast to the results of plasma GzmB, plasma GzmA levels were unchanged among AD, psoriasis and healthy groups, and showed no correlations with VAS score and SCORAD index in patients with AD.CONCLUSION: Plasma GzmB levels may reflect the degree of pruritus and dermatitis in patients with AD.
F-box proteins share the F-box domain to connect substrates of E3 SCF ubiquitin RING ligases through the adaptor Skp1/A to Cul1/A scaffolds. F-box protein Fbx15 is part of the general stress response of the human pathogenic mold Aspergillus fumigatus. Oxidative stress induces a transient peak of fbx15 expression, resulting in 3x elevated Fbx15 protein levels. During non-stress conditions Fbx15 is phosphorylated and F-box mediated interaction with SkpA preferentially happens in smaller subpopulations in the cytoplasm. The F-box of Fbx15 is required for an appropriate oxidative stress response, which results in rapid dephosphorylation of Fbx15 and a shift of the cellular interaction with SkpA to the nucleus. Fbx15 binds SsnF/Ssn6 as part of the RcoA/Tup1-SsnF/Ssn6 co-repressor and is required for its correct nuclear localization. Dephosphorylated Fbx15 prevents SsnF/Ssn6 nuclear localization and results in the derepression of gliotoxin gene expression. fbx15 deletion mutants are unable to infect immunocompromised mice in a model for invasive aspergillosis. Fbx15 has a novel dual molecular function by controlling transcriptional repression and being part of SCF E3 ubiquitin ligases, which is essential for stress response, gliotoxin production and virulence in the opportunistic human pathogen A. fumigatus.
MicroRNAs constitute a major post-transcriptional mechanism for controlling protein expression, and are emerging as key regulators during T cell development and function. Recent reports of augmented CD8 T cell activation and effector differentiation, and aberrant migratory properties upon ablation of Dicer/miRNAs in naïve cells have established a regulatory role of miRNAs during priming. Whether miRNAs continue to exert similar functions or are dispensable during later stages of CD8 T cell expansion and memory differentiation remains unclear. Here, we report a critical role of Dicer/miRNAs in regulating the balance of long-lived memory and short-lived terminal effector fates during the post-priming stages when CD8 T cells undergo clonal expansion to generate a large cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) pool and subsequently differentiate into a quiescent memory state. Conditional ablation of Dicer/miRNAs in early effector CD8 T cells following optimal activation and expression of granzyme B, using unique dicerfl/fl gzmb-cre mice, led to a strikingly diminished peak effector size relative to wild-type antigen-specific cells in the same infectious milieu. Diminished expansion of Dicer-ablated CD8 T cells was associated with lack of sustained antigen-driven proliferation and reduced accumulation of short-lived effector cells. Additionally, Dicer-ablated CD8 T cells exhibited more pronounced contraction after pathogen clearance and comprised a significantly smaller proportion of the memory pool, despite significantly higher proportions of CD127Hi memory precursors at the effector peak. Combined with previous reports of dynamic changes in miRNA expression as CD8 T cells differentiate from naïve to effector and memory states, these findings support distinct stage-specific roles of miRNA-dependent gene regulation during CD8 T cell differentiation.
The most frequently encountered symbiont on tree roots is the ascomycete Cenococcum geophilum, the only mycorrhizal species within the largest fungal class Dothideomycetes, a class known for devastating plant pathogens. Here we show that the symbiotic genomic idiosyncrasies of ectomycorrhizal basidiomycetes are also present in C. geophilum with symbiosis-induced, taxon-specific genes of unknown function and reduced numbers of plant cell wall-degrading enzymes. C. geophilum still holds a significant set of genes in categories known to be involved in pathogenesis and shows an increased genome size due to transposable elements proliferation. Transcript profiling revealed a striking upregulation of membrane transporters, including aquaporin water channels and sugar transporters, and mycorrhiza-induced small secreted proteins (MiSSPs) in ectomycorrhiza compared with free-living mycelium. The frequency with which this symbiont is found on tree roots and its possible role in water and nutrient transport in symbiosis calls for further studies on mechanisms of host and environmental adaptation.
Despite the annual public health burden of seasonal influenza and the continuing threat of a global pandemic posed by the emergence of highly pathogenic/pandemic strains, conventional influenza vaccines do not provide universal protection, and exhibit suboptimal efficacy rates, even when they are well matched to circulating strains. To address the need for a highly effective universal influenza vaccine, we have developed a novel M2-deficient single replication vaccine virus (M2SR) that induces strong cross-protective immunity against multiple influenza strains in mice. M2SR is able to infect cells and expresses all viral proteins except M2, but is unable to generate progeny virus. M2SR generated from influenza A/Puerto Rico/8/34 (H1N1) protected mice against lethal challenge with influenza A/Puerto Rico/8/34 (H1N1, homosubtypic) and influenza A/Aichi/2/1968 (H3N2, heterosubtypic). The vaccine induced strong systemic and mucosal antibody responses of both IgA and IgG classes. Strong virus-specific T cell responses were also induced. Following heterologous challenge, significant numbers of IFN-γ-producing CD8 T cells, with effector or effector/memory phenotypes and specific for conserved viral epitopes, were observed in the lungs of vaccinated mice. A substantial proportion of the CD8 T cells expressed Granzyme B, suggesting that they were capable of killing virus-infected cells. Thus, our data suggest that M2-deficient influenza viruses represent a promising new approach for developing a universal influenza vaccine.
