Immune reconstitution after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a complex and extremely variable process. The Ikaros transcription factor plays an important role in hematopoiesis in several cell lines, especially in the lymphoid lineage. We hypothesized that Ikaros might influence immune reconstitution, and consequently, the risk of opportunistic infections, relapse, and graft versus host disease (GVHD). Samples were collected from the graft and from the peripheral blood (PB) of the recipients 3 weeks after neutrophil recovery. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to analyze the absolute and relative Ikaros expression. Patients were divided into two groups, according to Ikaros expression in the graft and in the recipients' PB based on the ROC curves for moderate/severe cGVHD. A cutoff of 1.48 was used for Ikaros expression in the graft, and a cutoff of 0.79 was used for Ikaros expression in the recipients' PB. Sixty-six patients were included in this study. Median age of patients was 52 years (range 16-80 years), 55% of them were male, and 58% of them had acute leukemia. Median follow-up period was 18 months (range 10-43 months). There was no association between Ikaros expression and the risk of acute GVHD, relapse, or mortality. However, a significant association was observed with the risk of chronic GVHD. Higher Ikaros expression in the graft was associated with a significantly higher cumulative incidence (CI) of moderate/severe chronic GVHD according to the National Institute of Health (NIH) classification at two years (54% vs. 15% for patients with lower expression, P = 0.03). A higher Ikaros expression in the recipients' PB 3 weeks after engraftment was also associated with a significantly higher risk of moderate/severe chronic GVHD (65% vs. 11%, respectively, P = 0.005). In conclusion, Ikaros expression in the graft and in the recipients' PB after transplantation was associated with a higher risk of moderate/severe chronic GVHD. Ikaros expression should be evaluated in larger prospective trials as a potential biomarker for chronic GVHD.
IKZF1 (IKAROS family Zinc Finger 1) alteration is an essential regulator of both T- and B-cell lineage specification with leukemogenic potential. IKZF1 deletion have been described in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with varying prevalence often influenced by underlying cytogenetics and also shown to have diverse prognostic significance. We aimed to evaluate the prevalence and prognostic significance of IKZF1 deletion among childhood ALL. Electronic databases of MEDLINE, EMBASE and SCOPUS were searched and 32 studies found eligible. Estimated prevalence of IKZF1 deletion among BCR::ABL1 negative and BCR::ABL1 positive ALL patients was 14% (95%CI:13-16%, I2 = 79%; 26 studies) and 63% (95%CI:59-68% I2 = 42%; 10 studies) respectively. Most common site of IKZF1 deletion was whole chromosome (exon1-8) deletion in 32.3% (95%CI: 23.8-40.7%) followed by exon 4-7 deletion in 28.6% (95%CI: 19.7-37.5%). A positive minimal residual disease at the end of induction was more common among patients with IKZF1 deletion, odds ratio: 3.09 (95%CI:2.3-4.16, I2 = 54%; 15 studies). Event-free survival and overall survival were significantly worse for IKZF1 deletion, hazard ratio (HR): 2.10 (95%CI:1.90-2.32, I2 = 28%; 31 studies) and HR: 2.38 (95%CI:1.93-2.93, I2 = 40; 15 studies) respectively. In summary, the current meta-analysis highlights the frequency of IKZF1 deletion and its negative impact on survival in childhood ALL. Further studies exploring the influence of IKZF1 deletion in the presence of classical cytogenetic and other copy number alterations would further help in characterising its prognostic role.
Targeted protein degradation is a promising therapeutic strategy, spearheaded by the anti-myeloma drugs lenalidomide and pomalidomide. These drugs stabilize very efficiently the complex between the E3 ligase Cereblon (CRBN) and several non-native client proteins (neo-substrates), including the transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos and the enzyme Caseine Kinase 1α (CK1α,), resulting in their degradation. Although the structures for these complexes have been determined, there are no evident interactions that can account for the high efficiency of formation of the ternary complex. We show that lenalidomide's stabilization of the CRBN-CK1α complex is largely due to hydrophobic shielding of intermolecular hydrogen bonds. We also find a quantitative relationship between hydrogen bond robustness and binding affinities of the ternary complexes. These results pave the way to further understand cooperativity effects in drug-induced protein-protein complexes and could help in the design of improved molecular glues and more efficient protein degraders.
Comment on    Editorial on the Research Topic The role of transcription factors in inborn errors of immunity.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the predominant cause of cancer-related mortality globally, although many clinical efforts have been developed to improve the outcomes. The Ikaros zing-finger family transcription factors (IKZFs) have been proved to play pivotal roles in lymphopoiesis and myeloma progression, but their roles in solid tumors development remain unclear. We performed integrative bioinformatical analysis to determine the dysregulation expression of IKZFs in multiple tumors and the correlation between IKZF4 and NSCLC tumor environment. We showed that IKZFs were dysregulated in multiple tumors and IKZF4 was significantly decreased in NSCLC tissues and cell lines due to promoter hypermethylation. We found that low IKZF4 expression obviously correlated with patients' poor clinical outcome. We revealed that IKZF4 overexpression inhibited NSCLC cell growth, migration and xenograft tumor growth, supporting the inhibitory role of IKZF4 in NSCLC tumorigenesis. Additionally, integrative bioinformatical analysis showed that IKZF4 was involved in NSCLC tumor microenvironment. Mechanically, RNA-seq results showed that IKZF4 forced-expression remarkably suppressed Notch signaling pathway in NSCLC, which was validated by qRT-PCR and immunoblot assays. Moreover, we screened several potential agonists for IKZF4.
BACKGROUND: IKZF1 gene deletion is an indicator of poor prognosis in childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). The AEIOP/BFM group proposed that the prognostic strength of IKZF1 deletion could be remarkably improved by taking into account additional genetic deletions and reported that among patients with an IKZF1 deletion those with deletions in CDKN2A/2B, PAX5, or PAR1 in the absence of ERG deletion, grouped as IKZF1plus , had the worst outcome.PROCEDURE: Between 1998 and 2008, 1636 patients under 18 years of age with previously untreated BCP-ALL were registered in the EORTC 58951 trial. Those with multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification data were included in this analysis. Unadjusted and adjusted Cox model was used to investigate the additional prognostic value of IKZF1plus .RESULTS: Among 1200 patients included in the analysis, 1039 (87%) had no IKZF1 deletion (IKZF1WT ), 87 (7%) had an IKZF1 deletion but not IKZF1plus (IKZF1del ) and 74 (6%) had IKZF1plus . In the unadjusted analysis, both patients with IKZF1del (hazard ratio [HR] = 2.10, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.34-3.31) and IKZF1plus (HR = 3.07, 95% CI: 2.01-4.67) had a shorter event-free survival compared with IKZF1WT . However, although the IKZF1plus status was associated with patients' characteristics indicating poor prognosis, the difference between IKZF1plus and IKZF1del was not statistically significant (HR = 1.46, 95% CI: 0.83-2.57, p = .19). The results of the adjusted analysis were similar to the unadjusted analysis.CONCLUSIONS: In patients with BCP-ALL from the EORTC 58951 trial, the improvement of the prognostic importance of IKZF1 by considering IKZF1plus was not statistically significant.
DOI: 10.3389/fped.2023.1155785PMCID: PMC10031127PMID: 36969275
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are heterogeneous innate immune cells which participate in host defense, mucosal repair and immunopathology by producing effector cytokines similarly to their adaptive immune cell counterparts. The development of ILC1, 2, and 3 subsets is controlled by core transcription factors: T-bet, GATA3, and RORγt, respectively. ILCs can undergo plasticity and transdifferentiate to other ILC subsets in response to invading pathogens and changes in local tissue environment. Accumulating evidence suggests that the plasticity and the maintenance of ILC identity is controlled by a balance between these and additional transcription factors such as STATs, Batf, Ikaros, Runx3, c-Maf, Bcl11b, and Zbtb46, activated in response to lineage-guiding cytokines. However, how interplay between these transcription factors leads to ILC plasticity and the maintenance of ILC identity remains hypothetical. In this review, we discuss recent advances in understanding transcriptional regulation of ILCs in homeostatic and inflammatory conditions.
Various studies have shown that single nucleotide polymorphisms in the AT-rich interaction domain 5B (ARID5B), IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1), phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase type 2 alpha (PIP4K2A), and GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3) genes may be associated with the susceptibility and prognosis of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The present study aimed to investigate the association of ARID5B rs10821936, IKZF1 rs4132601, PIP4K2A rs7088318, and GATA3 rs3824662 gene polymorphisms with the susceptibility and prognosis of childhood ALL in China. We found that the C allele of rs10821936 (ARID5B) and the A allele of rs3824662 (GATA3) were associated with an increased risk of childhood ALL in the Chinese population. There was no significant difference in frequencies of rs4132601 (IKZF1) and rs7088318 (PIP4K2A) genotypes and alleles between the childhood ALL and control groups. We observed that CC genotype of rs10821936 (ARID5B) was associated with increased rates of high-risk and moderate-risk childhood ALL. The rs10821936 (ARID5B) could serve as a potential biomarker for assessing the risk of childhood ALL in Chinese children.
In the past few years, immunotherapy of tumors has become an extensive research hotspot, and the value of IKZF family genes in the tumor microenvironment has also been increasingly recognized. However, the expression of the IKAROS family zinc finger 3 (IKZF3) gene in human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) and its prognostic value were not reported for the main subset until now. In the present study, we analyzed the relationship between IKZF3 gene expression and the survival of HNSCC patients. To evaluate the potential of IKZF3 as a prognostic biomarker for HNSCC comprehensively, multiple online analysis tools, including UALCAN, cBioPortal, GEPIA, WebGestalt, String, Genomic Data Commons, and TIMER databases were utilized in our study. We observed that the HNSCC patients with higher IKZF3 expression tended to exhibit longer overall survival. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses indicated that age and grade were independent prognostic indicators in HNSCC. Moreover, Gene Ontology and KEGG function enrichment analyses showed that several pathways in HNSCC might be pivotal pathways regulated by IKZF3, which revealed that IKZF3 was probably participating in the occurrence and development of HNSCC. Furthermore, the hypomethylation of the IKZF3 gene was closely associated with genes that observed mutation in HNSCC. IKZF3 was significantly correlated with several immune cells in HNSCC (e.g., CD8+ T cell, CD4+ cell, and dendritic cell). We explored the potential prognostic values and roles of the IKZF3 in HNSCC, revealing that IKZF3 was probably a novel and reliable prognostic biomarker for patients with HNSCC.
Immunomodulatory agents (IMiDs) are a cornerstone of treatment for patients with multiple myeloma. IMiDs are used in therapeutic combinations at all stages of disease and are approved as a single agent maintenance treatment after autologous stem cell transplantation. However patients will become resistant to ongoing therapy over time and inevitably relapse. It is only in the last decade that the mechanism of IMiD action has been elucidated; through binding to the cereblon component of the CRL4CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase a set of neosubstrates is designated for degradation by the proteosome. In myeloma cells this includes the zinc-finger B cell transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos which in turn leads to decreased levels of IFR4 and c-MYC and cell death. As our knowledge of IMiD mechanism of action has advanced, the ability to study resistance mechanisms has also developed. This review will explore the existing work on IMiD resistance and propose areas of future research that may advance our understanding and management of this common clinical condition.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a hematologic malignancy for which several epigenetic regulators have been identified as therapeutic targets. Here we report the development of cereblon-dependent degraders of IKZF2 and casein kinase 1α (CK1α), termed DEG-35 and DEG-77. We utilized a structure-guided approach to develop DEG-35 as a nanomolar degrader of IKZF2, a hematopoietic-specific transcription factor that contributes to myeloid leukemogenesis. DEG-35 possesses additional substrate specificity for the therapeutically relevant target CK1α, which was identified through unbiased proteomics and a PRISM screen assay. Degradation of IKZF2 and CK1α blocks cell growth and induces myeloid differentiation in AML cells through CK1α-p53- and IKZF2-dependent pathways. Target degradation by DEG-35 or a more soluble analog, DEG-77, delays leukemia progression in murine and human AML mouse models. Overall, we provide a strategy for multitargeted degradation of IKZF2 and CK1α to enhance efficacy against AML that may be expanded to additional targets and indications.
Comment in    Cell Chem Biol. 2023 Mar 16;30(3):231-233.
One key process that controls leukemogenesis is the regulation of oncogenic gene expression by transcription factors acting as tumor suppressors. Understanding this intricate mechanism is crucial to elucidating leukemia pathophysiology and discovering new targeted treatments. In this review, we make a brief overview of the physiological role of IKAROS and the molecular pathway that contributes to acute leukemia pathogenesis through IKZF1 gene lesions. IKAROS is a zinc finger transcription factor of the Krüppel family that acts as the main character during hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis. It can activate or repress tumor suppressors or oncogenes, regulating the survival and proliferation of leukemic cells. More than 70% of Ph+ and Ph-like cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia exhibit IKZF1 gene variants, which are linked to worse treatment outcomes in both childhood and adult B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In the last few years, much evidence supporting IKAROS involvement in myeloid differentiation has been reported, suggesting that loss of IKZF1 might also be a determinant of oncogenesis in acute myeloid leukemia. Considering the complicated "social" network that IKAROS manages in hematopoietic cells, we aim to focus on its involvement and the numerous alterations of molecular pathways it can support in acute leukemias.
Chromosomal rearrangements involving the KMT2A gene occur frequently in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). KMT2A-rearranged ALL (KMT2Ar ALL) has poor long-term survival rates and is the most common ALL subtype in infants less than 1 year of age. KMT2Ar ALL frequently occurs with additional chromosomal abnormalities including disruption of the IKZF1 gene, usually by exon deletion. Typically, KMT2Ar ALL in infants is accompanied by a limited number of cooperative le-sions. Here we report a case of aggressive infant KMT2Ar ALL harbouring additional rare IKZF1 gene fusions. Comprehensive genomic and transcriptomic analyses were performed on sequential samples. This report highlights the genomic complexity of this particular disease and describes the novel gene fusions IKZF1::TUT1 and KDM2A::IKZF1.
Recent genome-wide studies have demonstrated that a significant proportion of children with cancer carry predisposing germline variants, with varying incidence according to cancer type. In general, there is a lower incidence of underlying germline predisposing variants among patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) compared to other types of cancer, but higher rates may be found in patients with specific leukemia subtypes. Two categories of ALL-predisposing variants have been described: common polymorphisms, conferring low-penetrance ALL susceptibility, and rare variants, conferring high-penetrance ALL susceptibility. Variants in genes encoding hematopoietic transcription factors are an example of the latter, and include ETV6, IKZF1, PAX5 and RUNX1. Here, we present an overview of the germline variants detected in patients with B-ALL in these four genes and a summary of functional studies analyzing the impacts of these variants upon protein function, and hence their effects with regard to leukemia predisposition. Furthermore, we review specific clinical characteristics of patients with B-ALL, including specific features of the patient or family history and associated somatic genetic characteristics, which are suggestive of underlying germline alterations in one of these genes. This review may be of assistance in the interpretation of patient genetic germline findings, made even more challenging by the absence of a suggestive family history or by an unknown familial cancer history. Despite a low incidence of underlying germline alterations in ETV6, IKZF1, PAX5 and RUNX1 in patients with B-ALL, identification of an underlying ALL predisposition syndrome is relevant to the clinical management of patients and their relatives, as the latter are also at risk of developing cancer.
In the last two decades, microglia have emerged as key contributors to disease progression in many neurological disorders, not only by exerting their classical immunological functions but also as extremely dynamic cells with the ability to modulate synaptic and neural activity. This dynamic behavior, together with their heterogeneous roles and response to diverse perturbations in the brain parenchyma has raised the idea that microglia activation is more diverse than anticipated and that understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying microglial states is essential to unravel their role in health and disease from development to aging. The Ikzf1 (a.k.a. Ikaros) gene plays crucial roles in modulating the function and maturation of circulating monocytes and lymphocytes, but whether it regulates microglial functions and states is unknown. Using genetic tools, here we describe that Ikzf1 is specifically expressed in the adult microglia in brain regions such as cortex and hippocampus. By characterizing the Ikzf1 deficient mice, we observed that these mice displayed spatial learning deficits, impaired hippocampal CA3-CA1 long-term potentiation, and decreased spine density in pyramidal neurons of the CA1, which correlates with an increased expression of synaptic markers within microglia. Additionally, these Ikzf1 deficient microglia exhibited a severe abnormal morphology in the hippocampus, which is accompanied by astrogliosis, an aberrant composition of the inflammasome, and an altered expression of disease-associated microglia molecules. Interestingly, the lack of Ikzf1 induced changes on histone 3 acetylation and methylation levels in the hippocampus. Since the lack of Ikzf1 in mice appears to induce the internalization of synaptic markers within microglia, and severe gliosis we then analyzed hippocampal Ikzf1 levels in several models of neurological disorders. Ikzf1 levels were increased in the hippocampus of these neurological models, as well as in postmortem hippocampal samples from Alzheimer's disease patients. Finally, over-expressing Ikzf1 in cultured microglia made these cells hyporeactive upon treatment with lipopolysaccharide, and less phagocytic compared to control microglia. Altogether, these results suggest that altered Ikzf1 levels in the adult hippocampus are sufficient to induce synaptic plasticity and memory deficits via altering microglial state and function.
Cellular functions are regulated by signal transduction pathway networks consisting of protein-modifying enzymes that control the activity of many downstream proteins. Protein kinases and phosphatases regulate gene expression by reversible phosphorylation of transcriptional factors, which are their direct substrates. Casein kinase II (CK2) is a serine/threonine kinase that phosphorylates a large number of proteins that have critical roles in cellular proliferation, metabolism and survival. Altered function of CK2 has been associated with malignant transformation, immunological disorders and other types of diseases. Protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is a serine/threonine phosphatase, which regulates the phosphorylation status of many proteins that are essential for cellular functions. IKAROS is a DNA-binding protein, which functions as a regulator of gene transcription in hematopoietic cells. CK2 directly phosphorylates IKAROS at multiple phosphosites which determines IKAROS activity as a regulator of gene expression. PP1 binds to IKAROS via the PP1-consensus recognition site and dephosphorylates serine/threonine residues that are phosphorylated by CK2. Thus, the interplay between CK2 and PP1 signaling pathways have opposing effects on the phosphorylation status of their mutual substrate - IKAROS. This review summarizes the effects of CK2 and PP1 on IKAROS role in regulation of gene expression and its function as a tumor suppressor in leukemia.
Temporal identity factors regulate competence of neural progenitors to generate specific cell types in a time-dependent manner, but how they operate remains poorly defined. In the developing mouse retina, the Ikaros zinc-finger transcription factor Ikzf1 regulates production of early-born cell types, except cone photoreceptors. In this study we show that, during early stages of retinal development, another Ikaros family protein, Ikzf4, functions redundantly with Ikzf1 to regulate cone photoreceptor production. Using CUT&RUN and functional assays, we show that Ikzf4 binds and represses genes involved in late-born rod photoreceptor specification, hence favoring cone production. At late stages, when Ikzf1 is no longer expressed in progenitors, we show that Ikzf4 re-localizes to target genes involved in gliogenesis and is required for Müller glia production. We report that Ikzf4 regulates Notch signaling genes and is sufficient to activate the Hes1 promoter through two Ikzf GGAA-binding motifs, suggesting a mechanism by which Ikzf4 may influence gliogenesis. These results uncover a combinatorial role for Ikaros family members during nervous system development and provide mechanistic insights on how they temporally regulate cell fate output.
Neuroinflammation is a key mediator to the pathogenic cascades induced by cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. IKZF3, a key zinc finger transcription factor in the Ikaros family, has already been shown to modulate a wide range of cell functions and the production of inflammatory mediators. However, the effects of IKZF3 on inflammation and the potential mechanism after cerebral I/R injury remain unclear. In this study, we evaluated the effect of IKZF3 on HT-22 cells under oxygen-glucose deprivation and reoxygenation (OGD/R) in vitro and in mice with MACO in vivo. We found that IKZF3 expression peaked at 12 h after MCAO and OGD/R, and there was high expression of IKZF3 in brain tissues and HT-22 cells. IKZF3 knockdown exacerbated the damage by OGD-induced HT-22 cells injury and MCAO-induced brain injury in mice by regulating the production of inflammatory factors, which promoted the phosphorylation and nuclear transfer of NF-ĸB and may bind with NF-ĸB-p65 in vivo and in vitro. Our results suggested that IKZF3 may provide a new target in improve neurological recovery and reducing neuroinflammation after cerebral I/R injury.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2023 Jan;24(1):8-9.
IKAROS/IKZF1 plays a pivotal role in lymphocyte differentiation and development. Germline mutations in IKZF1, which have been shown to be associated with primary immunodeficiency, can be classified through four different mechanisms of action depending on the protein expression and its functional defects: haploinsufficiency, dimerization defective, dominant negative, and gain of function. These different mechanisms are associated with variable degrees of susceptibility to infectious diseases, autoimmune disorders, allergic diseases, and malignancies. To date, more than 30 heterozygous IKZF1 germline variants have been reported in patients with primary immunodeficiency. Here we review recent discoveries and clinical/immunological characterization of IKAROS-associated diseases that are linked to different mechanisms of action in IKAROS function.
Cereblon (CRBN) is a ubiquitin ligase (E3) substrate receptor protein co-opted by CRBN E3 ligase modulatory drug (CELMoD) agents that target therapeutically relevant proteins for degradation. Prior crystallographic studies defined the drug-binding site within CRBN's thalidomide-binding domain (TBD), but the allostery of drug-induced neosubstrate binding remains unclear. We performed cryo-electron microscopy analyses of the DNA damage-binding protein 1 (DDB1)-CRBN apo complex and compared these structures with DDB1-CRBN in the presence of CELMoD compounds alone and complexed with neosubstrates. Association of CELMoD compounds to the TBD is necessary and sufficient for triggering CRBN allosteric rearrangement from an open conformation to the canonical closed conformation. The neosubstrate Ikaros only stably associates with the closed CRBN conformation, illustrating the importance of allostery for CELMoD compound efficacy and informing structure-guided design strategies to improve therapeutic efficacy.
Artificial intelligence (AI) can identify actionable oncology biomarkers. This research integrates our previous analyses of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. We used gene expression and immunohistochemical data, focusing on the immune checkpoint, and added a new analysis of macrophages, including 3D rendering. The AI comprised machine learning (C5, Bayesian network, C&R, CHAID, discriminant analysis, KNN, logistic regression, LSVM, Quest, random forest, random trees, SVM, tree-AS, and XGBoost linear and tree) and artificial neural networks (multilayer perceptron and radial basis function). The series included chronic lymphocytic leukemia, mantle cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, Burkitt, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, and multiple myeloma, as well as acute myeloid leukemia and pan-cancer series. AI classified lymphoma subtypes and predicted overall survival accurately. Oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes were highlighted (MYC, BCL2, and TP53), along with immune microenvironment markers of tumor-associated macrophages (M2-like TAMs), T-cells and regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs) (CD68, CD163, MARCO, CSF1R, CSF1, PD-L1/CD274, SIRPA, CD85A/LILRB3, CD47, IL10, TNFRSF14/HVEM, TNFAIP8, IKAROS, STAT3, NFKB, MAPK, PD-1/PDCD1, BTLA, and FOXP3), apoptosis (BCL2, CASP3, CASP8, PARP, and pathway-related MDM2, E2F1, CDK6, MYB, and LMO2), and metabolism (ENO3, GGA3). In conclusion, AI with immuno-oncology markers is a powerful predictive tool. Additionally, a review of recent literature was made.
To investigate the potential relationship between Ikaros family genes and skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM), we undertook a pan-cancer analysis of the transcriptional signature and clinical data of melanoma through multiple databases. First, 10,327 transcriptomic samples from different cancers were included to determine the overall characteristics and clinical prognoses associated with Ikaros gene expression across cancer types. Second, differentially expressed genes analysis, prognostic evaluation, and gene set enrichment analysis were employed to investigate the role of Ikaros (IKZF) genes in SKCM. Third, we evaluated the relationship between Ikaros family genes and SKCM immune infiltrates and verified the findings using the GEO single-cell sequencing dataset. The results show that Ikaros genes were widely expressed among different cancer types with independently similar patterns as follows: 1. IKZF1 and IKZF3, and 2. IKZF2 and IKZF4-5. IKZF2 and IKZF5 were downregulated in the primary tumor, and IKZF1-3 expression decreased significantly as the T-stage or metastasis increased in SKCM. Moreover, high IKZF1-3 expression was associated with better overall survival, disease-specific survival, and progression-free interval. IKZF3 is an independent prognostic factor of SKCM. Among Ikaros genes, the expression of IKZF1 and IKZF3 positively correlated with the infiltration level of CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells, B cells, and Tregs in SKCM and negatively correlated with the infiltration level of M0 and M1 macrophages. Moreover, single-cell sequencing data analysis revealed that IKZF1 and IKZF3 were mainly expressed by immune cells. Correlation analysis shows the immune factors and drug responses associated with IKZF3 expression. In conclusion, the present study is the first, to our knowledge, to identify a pan-cancer genomic signature of the Ikaros gene family among different cancers. Expression of these family members, particularly high levels of IKZF3, indicate positive immunological status and beneficial clinical outcomes of SKCM. IKZF3 may therefore serve as potential targets for immunotherapy of melanoma.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2022 Nov;23(11):1509-1511.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major risk factor for several neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuroinflammation is a cause of later secondary cell death following TBI, has the potential to aggravate the initial impact, and provides a therapeutic target, albeit that has failed to translate into clinical trial success. Thalidomide-like compounds have neuroinflammation reduction properties across cellular and animal models of TBI and neurodegenerative disorders. They lower the generation of proinflammatory cytokines, particularly TNF-α which is pivotal in microglial cell activation. Unfortunately, thalidomide-like drugs possess adverse effects in humans before achieving anti-inflammatory drug levels. We developed F-3,6'-dithiopomalidomide (F-3,6'-DP) as a novel thalidomide-like compound to ameliorate inflammation. F-3,6'-DP binds to cereblon but does not efficiently trigger the degradation of the transcription factors (SALL4, Ikaros, and Aiolos) associated with the teratogenic and anti-proliferative responses of thalidomide-like drugs. We utilized a phenotypic drug discovery approach that employed cellular and animal models in the selection and development of F-3,6'-DP. F-3,6'-DP significantly mitigated LPS-induced inflammatory markers in RAW 264.7 cells, and lowered proinflammatory cytokine/chemokine levels in the plasma and brain of rats challenged with systemic LPS. We subsequently examined immunohistochemical, biochemical, and behavioral measures following controlled cortical impact (CCI) in mice, a model of moderate TBI known to induce inflammation. F-3,6'-DP decreased CCI-induced neuroinflammation, neuronal loss, and behavioral deficits when administered after TBI. F-3,6'-DP represents a novel class of thalidomide-like drugs that do not lower classical cereblon-associated transcription factors but retain anti-inflammatory actions and possess efficacy in the treatment of TBI and potentially longer-term neurodegenerative disorders.
The hematopoietic transcription factor Ikaros (IKZF1) regulates normal B cell development and functions as a tumor suppressor in precursor B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory RNAs that through post-transcriptional gene regulation play critical roles in intracellular processes including cell growth in cancer. However, the role of Ikaros in the regulation of miRNA expression in developing B cells is unknown. In this study, we examined the Ikaros-regulated miRNA targets using human IKZF1-mutated Ph+ B-ALL cell lines. Inducible expression of wild-type Ikaros (the Ik1 isoform) caused B-ALL growth arrest and exit from the cell cycle. Global miRNA expression analysis revealed a total of 31 miRNAs regulated by IK1, and ChIP-seq analysis showed that Ikaros bound to several Ik1-responsive miRNA genes. Examination of the prognostic significance of miRNA expression in B-ALL indicate that the IK1-regulated miRNAs hsa-miR-26b, hsa-miR-130b and hsa-miR-4649 are significantly associated with outcome in B-ALL. Our findings establish a potential regulatory circuit between the tumor-suppressor Ikaros and the oncogenic miRNA networks in IKZF1-mutated B-ALL. These results indicate that Ikaros regulates the expression of a subset of miRNAs, of which several may contribute to B-ALL growth.
Breast cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death in women, and although treatment outcome has substantially improved in the past decades, advanced or metastatic breast cancers still carry a poor prognosis. Gene amplification is one of the frequent genetic alterations in cancer, and oncogene amplification may be associated with cancer aggressiveness and oncogenicity. Targeting amplified genes such as HER2 has vastly improved disease outcome and survival, and anti-HER2 therapeutics have revolutionized the standard of care in HER2 breast cancer. Besides currently known druggable gene amplifications including ERBB2 and FGFR2, other frequently amplified genes are relatively less well known for function and clinical significance. By querying four large databases from TCGA and AACR-Genie, from a total of 11,890 patients with invasive ductal breast carcinoma, we discover IKZF3, CCND1, ERBB2 to be consistently amplified across different cohorts. We further identify IKZF3 as a frequently amplified gene in breast cancer with a prevalence of 12-15% amplification rate. Interestingly, IKZF3 amplification is frequently co-amplified with ERBB2/HER2, and is also associated with worse prognosis compared to IKZF3 non-amplified cancers. Analysis of HER2 breast cancer patients treated with trastuzumab revealed decrease in both ERBB2/HER2 and IKZF3 expression. Further investigation using the DepMap for gene dependency by genome-wide CRISPR screening revealed dependence on IKZF3 in HER2 breast cancer cell lines. Our study utilized an integrative analysis of large-scale patient genomics, transcriptomics and clinical data to reveal IKZF3 as a frequently amplified gene, and suggest a potential role of IKZF3 as a druggable target for HER2 breast cancer.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a malignant plasma cell (PC) neoplasm, which also displays pathological bone involvement. Clonal expansion of MM cells in the bone marrow causes a perturbation of bone homeostasis that culminates in MM-associated bone disease (MMABD). We previously demonstrated that the S/T kinase CK1α sustains MM cell survival through the activation of AKT and β-catenin signaling. CK1α is a negative regulator of the Wnt/β-catenin cascade, the activation of which promotes osteogenesis by directly stimulating the expression of RUNX2, the master gene regulator of osteoblastogenesis. In this study, we investigated the role of CK1α in the osteoblastogenic potential of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) and its involvement in MM-MSC cross-talk. We found that CK1α silencing in in vitro co-cultures of MMs and MSCs modulated RUNX2 expression differently in PCs and in MSCs, mainly through the regulation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling. Our findings suggest that the CK1α/RUNX2 axis could be a potential therapeutic target for constraining malignant PC expansion and supporting the osteoblastic transcriptional program of MSCs, with potential for ameliorating MMABD. Moreover, considering that Lenalidomide treatment leads to MM cell death through Ikaros, Aiolos and CK1α proteasomal degradation, we examined its effects on the osteoblastogenic potential of MSC compartments.
Genetic deletions of IKZF1 (IKZF1del) and IKZF1del plus other mutations (IKZF1plus) have been identified in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) with a poor prognosis. Herein, we investigated the combination of IKZF1del and CD20 immunotypes in adult patients with B-ALL in the PDT-ALL-2016 cohort. This study cohort consisted of 161 patients with B-ALL with detailed information on IKZF1del and CD20 expression. The independent cohort included 196 patients from the TARGET dataset. IKZF1del was detected in 36.0% of patients with 3-year event-free survival (EFS) of 37.1 ± 6.7% and overall survival (OS) of 51.5 ± 7.3%, compared to IKZF1 wild-type (IKZF1wt) with an EFS 55.3 ± 5.1% (P = 0.011) and OS 74.4 ± 4.5% (P = 0.013), respectively. CD20-positive (CD20+) was associated with inferior EFS compared to the CD20-negative (CD20-) group (P = 0.020). Furthermore, IKZF1del coupled with CD20+, IKZF1del/CD20+, comprised 12.4% of patients with a 3-year EFS of 25.0 ± 9.7%, compared with IKZF1wt/CD20- (P ≤ 0.001) and IKZF1del/CD20- (P = 0.047) groups. Multivariable analyses demonstrated the independence of IKZF1del/CD20+, with the highest predicted hazard ratio for EFS and OS. Furthermore, the prognostic panel of IKZF1del/CD20+ was confirmed in the TARGET cohort. Notably, neither the IKZF1del, CD20+, or IKZF1del/CD20+ groups were identified to have poor outcomes in the cohort of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (n = 81).Collectively, our data define IKZF1del/CD20+ as a very high-risk subtype in B-ALL, and allo-HSCT could abrogate the poor outcome of both IKZF1del and IKZF1del/CD20+ subsets.
Immunomodulatory imide drugs (IMiDs), such as thalidomide and its analogues, are some of the most commonly utilized E3 ligase ligands for the development of proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs). While the canonical neo-substrates of IMiDs (i.e., Ikaros and Aiolos) are often considered to be unwanted targets of PROTACs, maintaining the degradation of these neo-substrates also provides the opportunity to synergistically degrade multiple proteins with a single compound. Here, we report the development of ALV-07-082-03, a CDK4/CDK6/Helios triple degrader that consists of palbociclib, an FDA-approved CDK4/6 inhibitor, conjugated to DKY709, a novel IMiD-based Helios degrader. Pharmacological codegradation of CDK4/6 and Helios resulted in potent suppression of downstream signaling and proliferation in cancer cells, as well as enhanced derepression of IL-2 secretion. Thus, not only do we demonstrate the possibility of rationally redirecting the neo-substrate specificity of PROTACs by incorporating alternative molecular glue molecules as E3 ligase ligands but our findings also suggest that cotargeting CDK4/6 and Helios may have synergistic effects.
BACKGROUND: IKZF1 promotes the occurrence of lymphoma and is also related to the development of breast cancer, liver cancer, and ovarian cancer. It was hypothesized that IKZF1 influences tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) formation and development in the tumor immune microenvironment, and this effect of IKZF1 on the tumor immune microenvironment has not been explored. Using melanoma grafts as a model, we investigated the effect of IKZF1 on the immune microenvironment of melanoma.METHODS: The Cell Count Kit-8 (CCK8) assay was used to detect the effect IKZF1 overexpression in melanoma cells on cell proliferation. The IKZF1 overexpression vector was constructed by homologous recombination. After linearization, the overexpression vector was microinjected into the fertilized egg. Transgenic mice overexpressing IKZF1 were screened by tail identification. After melanoma B16 mouse cells were digested into single cells, the tumor was subcutaneously implanted in C57BL6/J-wild type (WT) mice and IKZF1 transgenic mice, and the tumor growth of the 2 groups was compared. The number of TLSs in the tumor tissues of mice was analyzed after hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining.RESULTS: Overexpression of IKZF1 in melanoma cells did not affect cell proliferation. The IKZF1 overexpression vector pcDNA3.1-CAG-IKAROS was successfully constructed. Viable fertilized eggs were obtained after microinjection. Transgenic mice stably expressing IKZF1 were identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Compared with WT mice, the tumor load of IKZF1 transgenic mice increased significantly. HE staining showed that the number of immature TLSs in melanomas of IKZF1 transgenic mice increased significantly.CONCLUSIONS: IKZF1 does not affect the proliferation of melanoma cells. Transgenic mice overexpressing IKZF1 were successfully constructed. IKZF1 is a key driver gene of the formation of immature TLS.
BACKGROUND: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is the most prevailing pediatric hematologic malignancy, and various factors such as environmental exposures and genetic variation affect ALL susceptibility and patients outcome. According to genome-wide association studies, several single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in IKZF1 (rs4132601) and CDKN2A (rs3731249 and rs3731217) genes are associated with ALL susceptibility. Hereupon, this study aimed to discover the association between these SNPs and the risk of childhood ALL among a sample of the Iranian population.METHODS: A total of fifty children with ALL were included in this case-control study, along with an additional fifty healthy children, matched for age and gender. High-resolution melting (HRM) analysis was employed to genotyping rs4132601, rs3731249, and rs3731217.RESULTS: In the patient group, the CT genotype and T allele frequency of rs3731249 were significantly greater than controls (p = 0.01 and p = 0.005, respectively). Moreover, the positive association of CT and dominant model (CT + TT) genotypes and T allele at rs3731249 with the risk of ALL was confirmed (OR = 9.56, OR = 10.76 and OR = 11.00, respectively). There was no significant relation between rs4132601 (IKZF1), rs3731217 (CDKN2A), and childhood ALL.CONCLUSION: The present study indicates that CT genotype and T allele at rs3731249 (CDKN2A) can significantly increase the risk of ALL among children.
Overexpression of nuclear receptor binding SET domain protein 2 (NSD2) is frequent in multiple myeloma (MM). However, existing NSD2 inhibitors are largely ineffective in suppressing MM cell proliferation. Here, we report the discovery of a first-in-class NSD2 proteolysis targeting chimera (PROTAC) degrader, 9 (MS159), and two structurally similar controls, 17 (MS159N1) and 18 (MS159N2), with diminished binding to the cereblon (CRBN) E3 ligase and NSD2, respectively. Compound 9, but not 17 and 18, effectively degraded NSD2 in a concentration-, time-, CRBN-, and proteasome-dependent manner. Compound 9 also effectively degraded CRBN neo-substrates IKZF1 and IKZF3, but not GSPT1. Importantly, compound 9 was much more effective in suppressing the growth in cancer cells than the parent NSD2 binder. Moreover, compound 9 was bioavailable in mice. Altogether, compound 9 and its two controls 17 and 18 are valuable chemical tools for exploring the roles of NSD2 in health and disease.
This article describes the ocular phenotype associated with the identified Casitas B-lineage lymphoma (CBL) gene mutation and reviews the current literature. This work also includes the longitudinal follow-up of five unrelated cases of unexplained fundus lesions with visual loss associated with a history of hepatosplenomegaly. Wide repeated workup was made to rule out infections, inflammatory diseases, and lysosomal diseases. No variants in genes associated with retinitis pigmentosa, cone-rod dystrophy, and inherited optic neuropathy were found. Molecular analysis was made using next-generation sequencing (NGS) and whole-exome sequencing (WES). The results included two cases sharing ophthalmological signs including chronic macular edema, vascular leakage, visual field narrowing, and electroretinography alteration. Two other cases showed damage to the optic nerve head and a fifth young patient exhibited bilateral complicated vitreoretinal traction and carried a heterozygous mutation in the CBL gene associated with a mutation in the IKAROS gene. Ruxolitinib as a treatment for RASopathy did not improve eye conditions, whereas systemic lesions were resolved in one patient. Mutations in the CBL gene were found in all five cases. In conclusion, a detailed description may pave the way for the CBL mutation ocular phenotype. Genetic analysis using whole-exome sequencing could be useful in the diagnosis of unusual clinical features.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells play an important role in immune tolerance and contribute to the prevention of autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The differentiation, function and stability of Treg cells is controlled by members of the Ikaros zinc finger transcription factor family. In this study, we aimed to reveal how the expression of Ikaros transcription factors is affected by disease activity in RA. Therefore, we analyzed the ex vivo expression of Ikaros, Helios, Aiolos and Eos in Treg cells, Th17 cells and Th1 cells from RA patients by flow cytometry. We found significantly reduced expression of Helios, Aiolos and Eos in Treg cells from RA patients as compared to healthy controls. Moreover, Helios and Aiolos levels correlated with disease activity, as assessed by DAS28-CRP. In addition, Ikaros, Helios and Aiolos were significantly downregulated in Th1 cells from RA patients, while no difference between healthy individuals and RA was observed in Th17 cells. In summary, Helios and Aiolos expression in Treg cells correlates with disease activity and the expression levels of Ikaros transcription factors are diminished in Treg cells from RA patients. This observation could explain the reduced stability of Treg cells in RA.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is potentially fatal blood cancer, but there is an unmet need to discover novel molecular biomarkers. The hypothesis of this study aimed to elucidate the relationship of HIF1α with the redox system, Krebs cycles, notch1, and other regulatory proteins to better understand the pathophysiology and clinical relevance in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients, as the molecular mechanism of this axis is still not clear. This study included CML patient samples (n = 60; 60: blood; 10: bone marrow tissues) and compared them with healthy controls (n = 20; blood). Clinical diagnosis confirmed on bone marrow aspiration, marrow trephine biopsy, and BCR/ABL1 translocation. Cases were subclassified into chronic, accelerated, and blast crises as per WHO guidelines. Molecular experiments included redox parameters, DNA fragmentation, Krebs cycle metabolites, and gene expression by RT-PCR/Western blot/LC-MS, PPI (STRING), Pearson correlation, and ROC curve analysis. Here, our findings show that p210/p190BCR/ABL1 translocation is common in all blast crisis phases of CML. Redox factor/Krebs oncometabolite concentrations were high, leading to upregulation and stabilization of HIF1α. HIF1α leads to the pathogenesis in CML cells by upregulating their downstream genes (Notch 2/4/Ikaros/SIRT1/Foxo-3a/p53, etc.). Whereas, downregulated ubiquitin proteasomal and apoptotic factors in CML pateints, can trigger degradation of HIF1α through proline hydroxylation. However, HIF1α showed a negative corelation with the notch1 pathway. Notch1 plays a tumor-suppressive role in CML and might have the potential to be used as a diagnostic marker along with other factors in CML patients. The outcome also revealed that oxidant treatment could not be effective in augmentation with conventional therapy because CML cells can enhance the levels of antioxidants for their survival. HIF1α might be a novel therapeutic target other than BCR/ABL1 translocation.
Comment on    N Engl J Med. 2022 Mar 17;386(11):1034-1045.
Author information:(1)Department of Chemical Biology, Tokyo Medical University.
BACKGROUND: The risk of recurrence after completion of curative-intent treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC) is hard to predict. Post-treatment assaying for circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is an encouraging approach for stratifying patients for therapy, but the prognostic value of this approach is less explored. This study aimed to determine if detection of methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 following completion of initial treatment identified patients with a poorer recurrence-free survival (RFS).METHODS: 142 CRC stage I-III cases with at least 2 years of follow up (unless recurrence was evident sooner) and a methylated BCAT1/IKZF1 test result between 2 weeks and 12 months after completion of initial treatment were eligible for study inclusion. The association between BCAT1/IKZF1 and RFS was assessed by the log-rank (Mantel-Cox) method. Cox proportional hazard regression analysis was used for multivariable survival analysis.RESULTS: Thirty-three (23.2%) had recurrence at a median 1.6y (interquartile range: 0.8-2.4). Methylated BCAT1/IKZF1 was detected in 19 of the 142 patients (13.4%) and was associated with a significant risk of recurrence (hazard ratio [HR] 5.7, 95%CI: 1.9-17.3, p = 0.002). Three-year RFS for patients with or without detectable methylated BCAT1/IKZF1 was 56.5% and 83.3%, respectively. Multivariable analysis showed that detection of methylated BCAT1/IKZF1 (HR = 2.6, p = 0.049) and site of the primary tumor (HR = 4.2, p = 0.002) were the only significant prognostic indicators of poor RFS.CONCLUSIONS: BCAT1/IKZF1 methylation testing after curative-intent treatment is an independent prognostic indicator for RFS and identifies a subgroup at high risk. Personalized surveillance is warranted for patients with these ctDNA biomarkers detectable after curative-intent treatment.
Blast crisis (BC) is an outcome that arises during the treatment process of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), which is possibly attained by the dysregulation of the Notch and Ikaros signaling pathways, BCR-ABL translocation, redox, and inflammatory factors. This study demonstrated that biotherapeutic agents target aberrant molecular axis in CML-BC cells. The HALOA complex was synthesized by simple mixing of apo α-lactalbumin with oleic acid, which manages to inhibit BCR-ABL (b3a2 in K562 cells) translocation. It elevates the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), reactive nitrogen species (RNS), and protein carbonyl, which induces DNA fragmentation in K562 cells but not in NIH cells. The complex manages to reduce the toxicity surrounding apoptotic cells by enhancing the production of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and the total antioxidant level. The HALOA complex increases leptin to maintain normoxic conditions, ultimately preventing angiogenesis. This complex downregulates the expression of IL-8 and MMP-9 and elevates the expression levels of Notch 4, Ikaros, and integrin alpha-D/CD-11d (tumor-suppressive), which conjointly prevents inflammation, metastasis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in CML cells. Meanwhile, the complex downregulates Notch 1 and 2 (oncogenic), consequently inducing anoikis in CML cells. Overall, the HALOA complex shows credibility by targeting the combined molecular factors responsible for the pathogenesis of the disease and will also help to overcome MDR conditions in leukemia.
Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is the most common symptomatic primary immunodeficiency (PID). CVID is a heterogenous condition and clinical manifestations may vary from increased susceptibility to infections to autoimmune manifestations, granulomatous disease, polyclonal lymphoproliferation, and increased risk of malignancy. Autoimmune manifestations may, at times, be the first and only clinical presentation of CVID, resulting in diagnostic dilemma for the treating physician. Autoimmune cytopenias (autoimmune haemolytic anaemia and/or thrombocytopenia) are the most common autoimmune complications seen in patients with CVID. Laboratory investigations such as antinuclear antibodies, direct Coomb's test and anti-platelet antibodies may not be useful in patients with CVID because of lack of specific antibody response. Moreover, presence of autoimmune cytopenias may pose a significant therapeutic challenge as use of immunosuppressive agents can be contentious in these circumstances. It has been suggested that serum immunoglobulins must be checked in all patients presenting with autoimmune cytopenia such as immune thrombocytopenia or autoimmune haemolytic anaemia. It has been observed that patients with CVID and autoimmune cytopenias have a different clinical and immunological profile as compared to patients with CVID who do not have an autoimmune footprint. Monogenic defects have been identified in 10-50% of all patients with CVID depending upon the population studied. Monogenic defects are more likely to be identified in patients with CVID with autoimmune complications. Common genetic defects that may lead to CVID with an autoimmune phenotype include nuclear factor kappa B subunit 1 (NF-kB1), Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-responsive beige-like anchor protein (LRBA), cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA4), Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), inducible T-cell costimulatory (ICOS), IKAROS and interferon regulatory factor-2 binding protein 2 (IRF2BP2). In this review, we update on recent advances in pathophysiology and management of CVID with autoimmune cytopenias.
Molecular glue degraders, such as lenalidomide and pomalidomide, bind to cereblon (CRBN) E3 ligase and subsequently recruit neosubstrate proteins, Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3), for the ubiquitination-proteasomal degradation process. In this study, we explored structure-activity relationship analysis for novel GSPT1 degraders utilizing a benzotriazinone scaffold previously discovered as a novel CRBN binder. In particular, we focused on the position of the ureido group on the benzotriazinone scaffold, substituent effect on the phenylureido group, and methyl substitution on the benzylic position of benzotriazinone. As a result, we identified 34f (TD-522), which exhibits strong anti-proliferative effects in both KG-1 (EC50 = 0.5 nM) and TMD-8 (EC50 = 5.2 nM) cell lines. Compound 34f effectively induced GSPT1 degradation with a DC50 of 0.269 nM and Dmax of >95 % at 10 nM concentration in KG-1 cells. An in vivo xenograft study showed that compound 34f effectively suppressed TMD8-driven tumor growth, suggesting a potential role in the development of novel GSPT1 degraders.
Author information:(1)Poliklinik, Funktionsbereich und Hiller-Forschungszentrum für Rheumatologie, Universitätsklinikum Düsseldorf, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, Moorenstr. 5, 40225, Düsseldorf, Deutschland. johanna.mucke@med.uni-duesseldorf.de.
There are different subsets of T regulatory cells (Tregs), orchestrating critical roles in the regulation of anti-tumor immunity in colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study, we report that a high frequency of circulating CD4+FoxP3+ Tregs was associated with poorer disease-free survival (DFS), while their higher frequencies in tumor-infiltrating CD4+ Tregs was associated with better DFS. We further investigated such associations with four Tregs/T cells expressing or lacking FoxP3 and Helios (FoxP3±Helios±). For the first time, we report that a high frequency of circulating CD4+FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs was associated with poorer DFS, while a high frequency of tumor-infiltrating CD4+FoxP3-Helios- T cells was associated with poorer DFS. In the four FoxP3±Helios± T cell subsets expressing any of the immune checkpoints (ICs) investigated, we found that a high frequency of CD4+FoxP3+Helios-PD-1+ Tregs in circulation was associated with worse DFS. We also found that high frequencies of FoxP3+Helios+CTLA-4+ Tregs, FoxP3+Helios-CTLA-4+ Tregs, and FoxP3-Helios+CTLA-4+ CD4+ T cells in circulation were associated with worse DFS. In contrast, high frequencies of CD4+TIM-3+ T cells, FoxP3+Helios+TIM-3+ Tregs, and FoxP3-Helios+TIM-3+ CD4+ T cells in circulation were associated with longer DFS. Our data show that certain CD4+ Treg/T cell subsets could serve as independent predictive biomarkers in CRC patients. Identification of the exact subpopulations contributing to clinical outcomes is critical for prognoses and therapeutic targeting.
Aging leads to alterations in the immune system that result in ineffective responsiveness against pathogens. Features of this process, collectively known as immunosenescence, accumulate in CD8+ T cells with age and have been ascribed to differentiation of these cells during the course of life. Here we aimed to identify novel markers in CD8+ T cells associated with immunosenescence. Furthermore, we assessed how these markers relate to the aging-related accumulation of highly differentiated CD27-CD28- cells. We found that co-expression of the transcription factor Helios and the aging-related marker TIGIT identifies CD8+ T cells that fail to proliferate and show impaired induction of activation markers CD69 and CD25 in response to stimulation in vitro. Despite this, in blood of older adults we found TIGIT+Helios+ T cells to become highly activated during an influenza-A virus infection, but these higher frequencies of activated TIGIT+Helios+ T cells associate with longer duration of coughing. Moreover, in healthy individuals, we found that TIGIT+Helios+ CD8+ T cells accumulate with age in the highly differentiated CD27-CD28- population. Interestingly, TIGIT+Helios+ CD8+ T cells also accumulate with age among the less differentiated CD27+CD28- T cells before their transit into the highly differentiated CD27-CD28- stage. This finding suggests that T cells with immunosenescent features become prominent at old age also within the earlier differentiation states of these cells. Our findings show that co-expression of TIGIT and Helios refines the definition of immunosenescent CD8+ T cells and challenge the current dogma of late differentiation stage as proxy for T-cell immunosenescence.
A major pharmacological strategy toward HIV cure aims to reverse latency in infected cells as a first step leading to their elimination. While the unbiased identification of molecular targets physically associated with the latent HIV-1 provirus would be highly valuable to unravel the molecular determinants of HIV-1 transcriptional repression and latency reversal, due to technical limitations, this has been challenging. Here we use a dCas9 targeted chromatin and histone enrichment strategy coupled to mass spectrometry (Catchet-MS) to probe the differential protein composition of the latent and activated HIV-1 5'LTR. Catchet-MS identified known and novel latent 5'LTR-associated host factors. Among these, IKZF1 is a novel HIV-1 transcriptional repressor, required for Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 recruitment to the LTR. We find the clinically advanced thalidomide analogue iberdomide, and the FDA approved analogues lenalidomide and pomalidomide, to be novel LRAs. We demonstrate that, by targeting IKZF1 for degradation, these compounds reverse HIV-1 latency in CD4+ T-cells isolated from virally suppressed people living with HIV-1 and that they are able to synergize with other known LRAs.
(1) Background: An important concomitant of stroke is neuroinflammation. Pomalidomide, a clinically available immunomodulatory imide drug (IMiD) used in cancer therapy, lowers TNF-α generation and thus has potent anti-inflammatory actions. Well-tolerated analogs may provide a stroke treatment and allow evaluation of the role of neuroinflammation in the ischemic brain. (2) Methods: Two novel pomalidomide derivatives, 3,6'-dithiopomalidomide (3,6'-DP) and 1,6'-dithiopomalidomide (1,6'-DP), were evaluated alongside pomalidomide in a rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) stroke model, and their anti-inflammatory actions were characterized. (3) Results: Post-MCAo administration of all drugs lowered pro-inflammatory TNF-α and IL1-β levels, and reduced stroke-induced postural asymmetry and infarct size. Whereas 3,6'- and 1,6'-DP, like pomalidomide, potently bound to cereblon in cellular studies, 3,6'-DP did not lower Ikaros, Aiolos or SALL4 levels-critical intermediates mediating the anticancer/teratogenic actions of pomalidomide and IMiDs. 3,6'-DP and 1,6'-DP lacked activity in mammalian chromosome aberration, AMES and hERG channel assays -critical FDA regulatory tests. Finally, 3,6'- and 1,6'-DP mitigated inflammation across rat primary dopaminergic neuron and microglia mixed cultures challenged with α-synuclein and mouse LPS-challenged RAW 264.7 cells. (4) Conclusion: Neuroinflammation mediated via TNF-α plays a key role in stroke outcome, and 3,6'-DP and 1,6'-DP may prove valuable as stroke therapies and thus warrant further preclinical development.
Comment on    Nat Cancer. 2022 May;3(5):595-613.
Pomalidomide is a potent immunomodulatory agent that is currently a standard of care backbone for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) patients in the relapsed/refractory setting after exposure to lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor. The present review addresses current knowledge regarding the clinical use of pomalidomide in relapsed myeloma patients. Pomalidomide has direct myeloma cell tumoricidal effects by activating proteasomal degradation of Ikaros and Aiolos transcription factors and also indirect effects by modulation of immune responses, interaction with bone marrow stromal cells, and inhibition of angiogenesis. It is approved by regulatory authorities as doublet combination with dexamethasone but four more triplets are also approved for this setting. Many ongoing trials are evaluating the pomalidomide-dexamethasone backbone with newer anti-myeloma class agents or in quadruplet combinations. Pomalidomide-dexamethasone is currently one of the powerful tools available for use in the relapsed/refractory MM setting. Insights into the synergistic immunomodulatory effects of pomalidomide and other anti-myeloma agents and the mechanisms that overcome clonal resistance will potentially allow targeted use of triplet combinations at each relapse.
PURPOSE: Cereblon (CRBN), a substrate receptor of the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex CRL4CRBN, is the target of the small molecules lenalidomide and avadomide. Upon binding of the drugs, Aiolos and Ikaros are recruited to the E3 ligase, ubiquitylated, and subsequently degraded. In diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells, Aiolos and Ikaros are direct transcriptional repressors of interferon-stimulated genes (ISG) and degradation of these substrates results in increased ISG protein levels resulting in decreased proliferation and apoptosis. Herein, we aimed to uncover the mechanism(s) Aiolos and Ikaros use to repress ISG transcription and provide a mechanistic rationale for a combination strategy to enhance cell autonomous activities of CRBN modulators (CELMoD).EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We conducted paired RNA sequencing with histone modification and Aiolos/Ikaros chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing to identify genes regulated by these transcription factors and to elucidate correlations to drug sensitivity. We confirmed Aiolos/Ikaros mediated transcriptional complex formation in DLBCL patient samples including those treated with avadomide.RESULTS: In DLBCL, the repression of ISG transcription is accomplished in part through recruitment of large transcriptional complexes such as the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase, which modify the chromatin landscape of these promoters. A rational combination approach of avadomide with a specific histone deacetylase inhibitor leads to a significant increase in ISG transcription compared with either single agent, and synergistic antiproliferative activity in DLBCL cell lines.CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide a novel role for lineage factors Aiolos and Ikaros in DLBCL as well as further insight into the mechanism(s) of Aiolos and Ikaros-mediated transcriptional repression and unique therapeutic combination strategies.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) comprises a group of diseases with heterogeneous clinical and immunological manifestations. Several mutations have been identified in genes encoding proteins essential for immune function. Our aim was to phenotypically and genotypically characterize a patient diagnosed with CVID and study his response to the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine.METHODS: We performed a next-generation sequencing analysis, a CMIA, and an ELISA to analyze the humoral and cellular response to the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, respectively. We also employed flow cytometry and immunoturbidimetry to assess the patient's global immune status.RESULTS: We found a low humoral but positive cellular response to the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. NGS screening revealed a transition from guanine to adenine at position c.485 of the IKZF1 gene in heterozygosity, giving rise to the R162Q variant, which was not present in his parents.CONCLUSIONS: The R162Q variant of the IKZF1 gene has been associated with CVID type 13, but always with an autosomal dominant inheritance with high penetrance. Therefore, we present for the first time a case of CVID associated with a de novo heterozygous R162Q variant in the IKZF1 gene in a patient with a low humoral immune response to the complete COVID-19 vaccination program.
LAMP2 regulates autophagy in the thymic epithelium and thymic stroma-dependent CD4 T cell development.
Comment in    Nat Cancer. 2022 May;3(5):528-529.
WD repeat domain 5 (WDR5), an integral component of the MLL/KMT2A lysine methyltransferase complex, is critically involved in oncogenesis and represents an attractive onco-target. Inhibitors targeting protein-protein interactions (PPIs) between WDR5 and its binding partners, however, do not inhibit all of WDR5-mediated oncogenic functions and exert rather limited antitumor effects. Here, we report a cereblon (CRBN)-recruiting proteolysis targeting chimera (PROTAC) of WDR5, MS40, which selectively degrades WDR5 and the well-established neo-substrates of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs):CRBN, the Ikaros zinc finger (IKZF) transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3. MS40-induced WDR5 degradation caused disassociation of the MLL/KMT2A complex off chromatin, resulting in decreased H3K4me2. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that targets of both WDR5 and IMiDs:CRBN were significantly repressed by treatment of MS40. In MLL-rearranged leukemias, which exhibit IKZF1 high expression and dependency, co-suppression of WDR5 and Ikaros by MS40 is superior in suppressing oncogenesis to the WDR5 PPI inhibitor, to MS40's non-PROTAC analog controls (MS40N1 and MS40N2, which do not bind CRBN and WDR5, respectively), and to a matched VHL-based WDR5 PROTAC (MS169, which degrades WDR5 but not Ikaros). MS40 suppressed the growth of primary leukemia patient cells in vitro and patient-derived xenografts in vivo. Thus, dual degradation of WDR5 and Ikaros is a promising anti-cancer strategy.
BACKGROUND: Graves' disease (GD) is one of the most common autoimmune diseases worldwide and develops in 20 to 50 cases per 100,000 persons annually. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are widely expressed in multiple human diseases and have pivotal functions in gene regulation. This study is aimed at determining the lncRNA profile in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from GD patients and investigating the role of ENST00000604491 in GD.METHODS: A total of 31 GD patients and 32 normal controls were enrolled in the study. Next-generation sequencing was performed to identify the dysregulated lncRNAs in the PBMCs from the 5 GD patients and 5 normal controls, and 26 GD patients and 27 controls were used to verify the selected lncRNAs. The relative expression of verified lncRNAs, forkhead box P1 (FOXP1), and IKAROS family zinc finger 3 (IKZF3) from these samples was detected by quantitative real-time PCR. The potential biomarker value was assessed by using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.RESULTS: A total of 37,683 dysregulated expressed lncRNAs were indicated, of which 5 lncRNAs were significantly upregulated and 83 lncRNAs were remarkably downregulated in the GD patients compared with healthy subjects. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses showed that abnormally expressed lncRNAs were mainly enriched in immune system-related signalling pathways. Among the selected lncRNAs, the relative expression of ENST00000604491 was significantly downregulated and negatively correlated with the serum levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibodies (TRAb) in GD patients. Further studies confirmed that decreased FOXP1 expression was inversely correlated with serum TRAb levels in GD patients. Moreover, there was a notably positive correlation between ENST00000604491 expression and FOXP1 transcript levels in GD. The area under the ROC curve of ENST00000604491 was up to 0.74 (95% confidence interval: 0.60-0.87, p < 0.01), and the sensitivity and specificity were 53.85% and 88.89%, respectively.CONCLUSION: The present study identifies ENST00000604491 as a significantly attenuated lncRNA in GD patients, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of GD by regulating FOXP1 and represent a potential biomarker for GD.
INTRODUCTION: Worldwide, the B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (BCP-ALL) treatment protocols are based on risk-adaptive therapy, that is on the search for biological markers for stratification by risk groups for optimal management. Depending on the treatment protocol, deletions and overexpression of non-functional IKZF1 isoforms act as relapse predictors in ALL. We investigated the IKZF1 gene aberrations as the substantive marker for predicting the development of relapse or adverse events when using risk stratification from ALL-MB-2002/2008 protocols.METHODS: We retrospectively analysed the bone marrow samples collected from 202 newly diagnosed patients with BCP-ALL harbouring IKZF1 aberrations.RESULTS: In patients of intermediate- and high-risk the presence of IKZF1 aberrations contributed to the delayed clearance of blast cells on the 15th and 36th day of induction therapy, but there was not a significant effect on relapse rate. The comparative analysis demonstrated that standard-risk patients with IKZF1 aberrations have a much higher 5-years cumulative incidence of relapse (66.7 ± 22.7% vs. 11.6 ± 2.9% in the group with normal gene status, p < 0.001) in contrast to intermediate- and high-risk groups. In the competing risk model of relapse, IKZF1 aberrations determine a high risk of relapse only in standard-risk patients (p = 0.025), and it was not significant for patients of other risk groups (p = 0.284 for intermediate, and 0.408 for high-risk groups).CONCLUSION: Our findings support that IKZF1 aberrations are a crucial relapse predictor in standard-risk patients with BCP-ALL, who practically have no significant markers to assess the prognosis during the primary diagnosis.
BACKGROUND: The tumour microenvironment reshapes the specific gene expression of regulatory T cells (Tregs). A better definition of Treg subpopulations in the non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) milieu is expected to clarify the identity and functional mode of Tregs and lead to the identification of better therapeutic targets.METHODS: A total of 53 peripheral blood (PB) samples from 36 NSCLC patients and 17 control subjects and 42 matched bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples from 31 NSCLC patients and 11 control subjects were obtained to examine the frequencies of Treg subgroups through flow cytometry. Fifteen PB samples from healthy individuals were collected to explore the differential functions of Treg subsets. The PB samples of 5 patients after chemotherapy were obtained to evaluate the effect of chemotherapy on Treg subsets. Serum CYFRA 21-1 levels in NSCLC patients were determined using an electrochemiluminescence immunoassay.RESULTS: The proportions of CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ Tregs in both PB and BALF were increased in NSCLC patients compared to controls. In BALF, the TIGIT+, Helios+, and TIGIT+Helios+ Treg subset levels were significantly elevated; the levels of the last two subsets were associated with NSCLC development, while the level of TIGIT-Helios- Tregs was decreased. The proportions of overall Tregs and TIGIT+, Helios+, and Helios+TIGIT+ Tregs were positively correlated with the serum CYFRA 21-1 levels in all patients. Functional differences were observed between Helios+TIGIT+ and Helios-TIGIT- Tregs. After chemotherapy, regardless of the reduction in serum CYFRA 21-1 levels, the proportions of Tregs and Treg subsets did not change.CONCLUSIONS: Elevated TIGIT+Helios+ and Helios+ Treg levels may play a role in NSCLC tumour progression, and targeting TIGIT and Helios on Tregs may be an effective treatment for NSCLC.
Here we describe a novel mutation in the IKZF gene encoding IKAROS, as the cause of common variable immunodeficiency (CVID). The identification of the same defect in the IKZF gene with manifestations of asymptomatic selective IgA deficiency and chronic ITP in the father and her younger brother, respectively, demonstrates the large variability of this genetic defect in one single family, while living in the same environment with a relatively similar genetic background. As discussed, clinical penetrance of the molecular defects identified by mutations in IKZF and other common gene defects in CVID in familial immune-related abnormalities makes genetic testing a necessary step for diagnosis, management, and counseling, as part of the routine immunological workup.
OBJECTIVES: Iberdomide is a high-affinity cereblon ligand that promotes proteasomal degradation of transcription factors Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3). Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of oral iberdomide were evaluated in a phase 2b study of patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).METHODS: Adults with autoantibody-positive SLE were randomised to placebo (n=83) or once daily iberdomide 0.15 mg (n=42), 0.3 mg (n=82) or 0.45 mg (n=81). Pharmacodynamic changes in whole blood leucocytes were measured by flow cytometry, regulatory T cells (Tregs) by epigenetic assay, plasma cytokines by ultrasensitive cytokine assay and gene expression by Modular Immune Profiling.RESULTS: Iberdomide exhibited linear pharmacokinetics and dose-dependently modulated leucocytes and cytokines. Compared with placebo at week 24, iberdomide 0.45 mg significantly (p<0.001) reduced B cells, including those expressing CD268 (TNFRSF13C) (-58.3%), and plasmacytoid dendritic cells (-73.9%), and increased Tregs (+104.9%) and interleukin 2 (IL-2) (+144.1%). Clinical efficacy was previously reported in patients with high IKZF3 expression and high type I interferon (IFN) signature at baseline and confirmed here in those with an especially high IFN signature. Iberdomide decreased the type I IFN gene signature only in patients with high expression at baseline (-81.5%; p<0.001) but decreased other gene signatures in all patients.CONCLUSION: Iberdomide significantly reduced activity of type I IFN and B cell pathways, and increased IL-2 and Tregs, suggesting a selective rebalancing of immune abnormalities in SLE. Clinical efficacy corresponded to reduction of the type I IFN gene signature.TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03161483.
AIOLOS is encoded by IKZF3 and is a member of the IKAROS zinc finger transcription factor family. Heterozygous missense variants in the second zinc finger of AIOLOS have recently been reported to be found in the families of patients with inborn errors of immunity. The AIOLOSG159R variant was identified in patients with B-lymphopenia and familial Epstein-Barr virus-associated lymphoma. Early B-cell progenitors were significantly reduced in the bone marrow of patients with AIOLOSG159R. Another variant, AIOLOSN160S was identified in the patients presented with hypogammaglobulinemia, susceptibility to Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Patients with AIOLOSN160S had mostly normal B cell counts but showed increased levels of CD21lo B cells, decreased CD23 expression, and abrogated CD40 response. Both variants were determined to be loss-of-function. Mouse models harboring the corresponding patient's variants recapitulated the phenotypes of the patients. AIOLOS is therefore a novel disease-causing gene in human adaptive immune deficiency.
Rationale: In multiple myeloma (MM), the activities of non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and homologous recombination repair (HR) are increased compared with healthy controls. Whether and how IKZF1 as an enhancer of MM participates in the DNA repair pathway of tumor cells remains elusive. Methods: We used an endonuclease AsiSI-based system and quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation assay (qChIP) analysis to test whether IKZF1 is involved in DNA repair. Immunopurification and mass spectrometric (MS) analysis were performed in MM1.S cells to elucidate the molecular mechanism that IKZF1 promotes DNA damage repair. The combination effect of lenalidomide or USP7 inhibitor with PARP inhibitor on cell proliferation was evaluated using MM cells in vitro and in vivo. Results: We demonstrate that IKZF1 specifically promotes homologous recombination DNA damage repair in MM cells, which is regulated by its interaction with CtIP and USP7. In this process, USP7 could regulate the stability of IKZF1 through its deubiquitinating activity. The N-terminal zinc finger domains of IKZF1 and the ubiquitin-like domain of USP7 are necessary for their interaction. Furthermore, targeted inhibition IKZF1 or USP7 could sensitize MM cells to PARP inhibitor treatment in vitro and in vivo. Conclusions: Our findings identify USP7 as a deubiquitinating enzyme for IKZF1 and uncover a new function of IKZF1 in DNA damage repair. In translational perspective, the combination inhibition of IKZF1 or USP7 with PARP inhibitor deserves further evaluation in clinical trials for the treatment of MM.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Guangzhou Twelfth People's Hospital, Guangzhou 510515, China.
IKZF1/IKAROS is a key transcription factor of lymphocyte development expressed throughout hematopoiesis. Heterozygous germline IKZF1 haploinsufficient (IKZF1HI) and dominant-negative (IKZF1DN) variants in humans cause B cell immune deficiency and combined immunodeficiency. Here, we identified previously unidentified heterozygous IKZF1 variants (R183C/H) located in the DNA binding domain in eight individuals with inflammatory, autoimmune, allergic symptoms, and abnormal plasma cell (PC) proliferation. Leukocytes of patients exhibited specific defects including impaired IL-2 production by T cells, T helper (TH) skewing toward TH2, low numbers of regulatory T cells (Treg), eosinophilia, and abnormal PC proliferation. In contrast to IKZF1HI and IKZF1DN, IKZF1R183H/C proteins showed increased DNA binding associated with increased gene expression of TH2 and PC differentiation, thus demonstrating that IKZF1R183H/C behave as gain-of-function (GOF) alleles. In vitro treatment with lenalidomide, known to degrade IKZF1, corrected TH2 and PC abnormalities caused by IKZF1R183H/C. These data extend the spectrum of pathological mechanisms associated with IKZF1 deficiencies and highlight the role of IKZF1 in late lymphoid differentiation stages.
Comment in    N Engl J Med. 2022 Mar 17;386(11):1085-1086.    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2022 Sep;18(9):499-500.
BACKGROUND: A blood assay measuring methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 can detect recurrent colorectal cancer (CRC) with high sensitivity but suboptimal specificity. This study aimed to establish an upper reference limit (URL) of these biomarkers in a reference population without CRC, apply that threshold to detecting clinical recurrence in patients who had undergone definitive therapy for CRC, and compare the performance of the biomarkers with carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA).METHODS: The level of methylation was reported as the aggregate methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 expressed as a percentage of total plasma DNA. A reference population of patients confirmed to have no colorectal neoplasia (n = 857) was used to determine the URL. Test accuracy for clinical recurrence was determined in a post-treatment surveillance population (n = 549; 77 recurrence cases).RESULTS: A methylation level of 0.07%, corresponding to the 98th percentile in the reference population, was set as the URL. In the surveillance population, 60 patients had methylation levels above 0.07%, and 81.7% of these had recurrence. In comparison with no minimum threshold being applied, assay sensitivity with a URL of 0.07% yielded similar sensitivity (63.6% [CI, 51.9%-74.3%] vs 64.9% [CI, 53.8%-74.7%]; P = .87) and higher specificity (97.7% [CI, 95.9%-98.8%] vs 91.3% [CI, 88.4%-93.5%]; P < .001). The BCAT1/IKZF1 test was 2.5-fold more sensitive than CEA for detecting recurrences considered amenable to surgery with curative intent (50.0% vs 20.8%; P = .016).CONCLUSIONS: Applying a threshold for positivity to the methylated BCAT1/IKZF1 blood assay improved the specificity for CRC recurrence without compromising sensitivity. Both the sensitivity and the specificity were superior to those of CEA.
BACKGROUND: Detection of circulating cell-free DNA (ccfDNA) methylated in BCAT1 and IKZF1 is sensitive for detection of colorectal cancer (CRC), but it is not known if these biomarkers are present in other common adenocarcinomas.OBJECTIVE: Compare methylation levels of BCAT1 and IKZF1 in tissue and plasma from breast, prostate, and colorectal cancer patients.METHODS: Blood was collected from 290 CRC, 32 breast and 101 prostate cancer patients, and 606 cancer-free controls. Tumor and matched normal tissues were collected at surgery: 26 breast, 9 prostate and 15 CRC. DNA methylation in BCAT1 and IKZF1 was measured in blood and tissues.RESULTS: Either biomarker was detected in blood from 175/290 (60.3%) of CRC patients. The detection rate was higher than that measured in controls (48/606 (8.1%), OR = 18.2, 95%CI: 11.1-29.0). The test positivity rates in breast and prostate cancer patients were 9.4% (3/32) and 6.9% (7/101), respectively, and not significantly different to that measured in gender-matched controls (8.0% (33/382) females (OR = 0.84, 95%CI: 0.23-3.1) and 7.6% (26/318) males (OR = 0.86, 95%CI: 0.65-2.1). In tumor and non-neoplastic tissues, 93.5% (14/15) of CRC tumors were methylated in BCAT1 and/or IKZF1 (p< 0.004). Only 11.5% (3/26) and 44.4% (4/9) (p= 0.083) of breast and prostate tumors were hypermethylated in these two genes.CONCLUSIONS: Detection of circulating DNA methylated in BCAT1 and IKZF1 is sensitive and specific for CRC but not breast or prostate cancer.
CRLF2 overexpression has been described as a biomarker of poor prognosis in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). In the present study, we aimed to unravel the genomic profile underlying CRLF2 overexpression (CRLF2-high) by analyzing RNA-seq, WES, and SNP-array data from 264 T-ALL patients and five cell lines deposited on the TARGET initiative, Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia and Gene Expression Omnibus. These data allowed us to delineate the genomic landscape of CRLF2-high in T-ALL, which was associated with PTEN, JAK3, PHF6, EZH2, and RUNX1 mutations. We also observed an enrichment of CRLF2-high in early T-precursor (ETP)-ALL (23.08% vs. 4.02%, P = 7.579e-06 ) and a very similar gene upregulation profile between these two entities. The inhibition of BET (iBET) proteins is a strategy previously demonstrated to reverse the gene upregulation pattern of ETP cells through restoration of polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) activity. While CRLF2 expression was rescued by using this strategy in LOUCY (untreated vs. iBET P = 0.0095, DMSO vs. iBET P = 0.0286), a classical ETP-ALL cell line, PRC2 loss was not sufficient to promote CRLF2 upregulation in JURKAT, a more mature T-ALL cell line. Considering the role of IKZF1 in CRLF2 regulation and in recruitment of PCR2, we evaluated IKZF1 status according to CRLF2-expression subgroups. We identified that IKZF1 transcripts with intron retention were upregulated in the CRLF2-high subgroup. Here, we delineated the gene expression profile of CRLF2-high T-ALL samples and unraveled the crucial role of PRC2 in CRLF2 regulation in ETP-ALL.
Marek's disease virus (MDV) is the causative agent for Marek's disease (MD), which is characterized by T-cell lymphomas in chickens. While the viral Meq oncogene is necessary for transformation, it is insufficient, as not every bird infected with virulent MDV goes on to develop a gross tumor. Thus, we postulated that the chicken genome contains cancer driver genes; i.e., ones with somatic mutations that promote tumors, as is the case for most human cancers. To test this hypothesis, MD tumors and matching control tissues were sequenced. Using a custom bioinformatics pipeline, 9 of the 22 tumors analyzed contained one or more somatic mutation in Ikaros (IKFZ1), a transcription factor that acts as the master regulator of lymphocyte development. The mutations found were in key Zn-finger DNA-binding domains that also commonly occur in human cancers such as B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). To validate that IKFZ1 was a cancer driver gene, recombinant MDVs that expressed either wild-type or a mutated Ikaros allele were used to infect chickens. As predicted, birds infected with MDV expressing the mutant Ikaros allele had high tumor incidences (~90%), while there were only a few minute tumors (~12%) produced in birds infected with the virus expressing wild-type Ikaros. Thus, in addition to Meq, key somatic mutations in Ikaros or other potential cancer driver genes in the chicken genome are necessary for MDV to induce lymphomas.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and efficacy of iberdomide in patients with SLE. Iberdomide is a high-affinity cereblon ligand that targets the hematopoietic transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos for proteasomal degradation.METHODS: A 12-week, multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation study in active SLE was followed by a 2-year, open-label active treatment extension phase (ATEP) (NCT02185040). In the dose-escalation phase, adults with active SLE were randomised to oral placebo or iberdomide (0.3 mg every other day, 0.3 mg once daily, 0.6 mg and 0.3 mg alternating once daily, or 0.6 mg once daily). Primary endpoints were safety and tolerability.RESULTS: The dose-escalation phase enrolled 42 patients, with 33 completing this phase and 17 patients enrolling into the ATEP. In the dose-escalation phase, the most common treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs; iberdomide/placebo groups) were nausea (20.6%/12.5%), diarrhoea (17.6%/12.5%) and upper respiratory tract infection (11.8%/12.5%). Most TEAEs were mild or moderate in severity and more common in the highest dose groups in both study phases. In the dose-escalation phase, Physician's Global Assessment and Cutaneous Lupus Erythematosus Disease Area and Severity Index (CLASI) activity scores improved relative to baseline and placebo in all iberdomide groups, with a trend toward continued score improvements in the ATEP. In the dose-escalation phase, iberdomide treatment resulted in dose-dependent reductions in total B cells and plasmacytoid dendritic cells in blood. Improvements in CLASI activity scores correlated with plasmacytoid dendritic cell depletion.CONCLUSIONS: These proof-of-concept findings suggest a favourable benefit/risk ratio in SLE for iberdomide, a drug with a novel immunomodulatory mechanism of action, supporting further clinical investigation.
"Molecular glue" (MG) is a term coined to describe the mechanism of action of the plant hormone auxin and subsequently used to characterize synthetic small molecule protein degraders exemplified by immune-modulatory imide drugs (IMiDs). Prospective development of MGs, however, has been hampered by its elusive definition and thermodynamic characteristics. Here, we report the crystal structure of a dual-nanobody cannabidiol-sensing system, in which the ligand promotes protein-protein interaction in a manner analogous to auxin. Through quantitative analyses, we draw close parallels among the dual-nanobody cannabidiol sensor, the auxin perception complex, and the IMiDs-bound CRL4CRBN E3, which can bind and ubiquitinate "neo-substrates". All three systems, including the recruitment of IKZF1 and CK1α to CRBN, are characterized by the lack of ligand binding activity in at least one protein partner and an under-appreciated preexisting low micromolar affinity between the two proteinaceous subunits that is enhanced by the ligand to reach the nanomolar range. These two unifying features define MGs as a special class of proximity inducers distinct from bifunctional compounds and can be used as criteria to guide target selection for future rational discovery of MGs.
The strongest predictors of outcome in pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) are minimal residual disease (MRD) and specific molecular abnormalities. One unfavorable prognostic factor is the presence of IKZF1 gene aberrations, particularly when co-occurring with high MRD level at the end of induction treatment. The present study determines the predictive value of a recently-defined IKZF1-plus (IKZF1plus ) microdeletion profile in 373 children with BCP-ALL treated according to the ALL-intercontinental Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster protocol 2009 protocol. IKZF1-wild type (IKZF1wt ) patients demonstrated lower leukemic burden parameters than those carrying IKZF1 deletion (IKZF1del [n = 26, 7.0%]) or IKZF1plus pattern (n = 34, 9.1%): (i) median blast percentage at diagnosis (78.0% vs. 86.9% vs. 86.0%; p = 0.021); (ii) median MRD level at day 15 of induction protocol (0.3% vs. 2.1% vs. 0.8%; p = 0.011); (iii) poor steroid response (7.6% vs. 26.5% vs. 12.5%; p = 0.010). Minimal residual disease level at day 33 (MRD33) exceeding 10-4 was more frequently observed in both the IKZF1del and IKZF1plus subgroups than in IKZF1wt patients (n = 9 [36.0%] vs. n = 13 [41.9%] vs. n = 70 [24.0%], p = 0.051). IKZF1plus individuals showed a tendency for a lower MRD reduction between day 15 and 33 compared to IKZF1del patients (p = 0.124). IKZF1del and IKZF1plus patients showed decreased relapse-free survival (HR [95%CI] for IKZF1wt as reference = 2.72 [1.21-6.11] and 2.00 [0.87-4.49], respectively, p = 0.023). Both genetic markers including IKZF1del and IKZF1plus microdeletion profile provide additional predictive value of treatment outcome in childhood BCP-ALL and may contribute to more efficient patient stratification; the same is true in MRD guided protocols, which are based on flow cytometric measurements on day 15 of induction protocol.
IKAROS and CTLA4 deficiencies are inborn errors of immunity and show similar clinical phenotypes, including hypogammaglobulinemia and autoimmune diseases (ADs). However, the differences in clinical features and pathogenesis of these are not fully understood. Therefore, we performed systematic literature reviews for IKAROS and CTLA4 deficiencies. The reviews suggested that patients with IKAROS deficiency develop AD earlier than hypogammaglobulinemia. However, no study assessed the detailed changes in clinical manifestations over time; this was likely due to the cross-sectional nature of the studies. Therefore, we conducted a retrospective longitudinal study on IKAROS and CTLA4 deficiencies in our cohort to evaluate the clinical course over time. In patients with IKAROS deficiency, AD and hypogammaglobulinemia often develop in that order, and AD often resolves before the onset of hypogammaglobulinemia; these observations were not found in patients with CTLA4 deficiency. Understanding this difference in the clinical course helps in the clinical management of both. Furthermore, our results suggest B- and T-cell-mediated ADs in patients with IKAROS and CTLA4 deficiencies, respectively.
Inborn errors of immunity (IEI) are genetic disorders characterized by a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from increased susceptibility to infections to significant immune dysregulation. Among these, primary immune regulatory disorders (PIRDs) are mainly presenting with autoimmune manifestations, and autoimmune cytopenias (AICs) can be the first clinical sign. Significantly, AICs in patients with IEI often fail to respond to first-line therapy. In pediatric patients, autoimmune cytopenias can be red flags for IEI. However, for these cases precise indicators or parameters useful to suspect and screen for a hidden congenital immune defect are lacking. Therefore, we focused on chronic/refractory AIC patients to perform an extensive clinical evaluation and multiparametric flow cytometry analysis to select patients in whom PIRD was strongly suspected as candidates for genetic analysis. Key IEI-associated alterations causative of STAT3 GOF disease, IKAROS haploinsufficiency, activated PI3Kδ syndrome (APDS), Kabuki syndrome and autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) were identified. In this scenario, a dysregulated immunophenotype acted as a potential screening tool for an early IEI diagnosis, pivotal for appropriate clinical management and for the identification of new therapeutic targets.
Treg therapies are being tested in clinical trials in transplantation and autoimmune diseases, however, the impact of inflammation on Tregs remains controversial. We challenged human Tregs ex-vivo with pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNFα and observed greatly enhanced proliferation stimulated by anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 (aCD3/28) beads or CD28 superagonist (CD28SA). The cytokine-exposed Tregs maintained high expression of FOXP3 and HELIOS, demethylated FOXP3 enhancer, and low IFNγ, IL-4, and IL-17 secretion. Blocking TNF receptor using etanercept or deletion of TNF receptor 2 using CRISPR/Cas9 blunted Treg proliferation and attenuated FOXP3 and HELIOS expression. These results prompted us to consider using CD28SA together with IL-6 and TNFα without aCD3/28 beads (beadless) as an alternative protocol for therapeutic Treg manufacturing. Metabolomics profiling revealed more active glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation, increased energy production, and higher antioxidant potential during beadless Treg expansion. Finally, beadless expanded Tregs maintained suppressive functions in vitro and in vivo. These results demonstrate that human Tregs positively respond to proinflammatory cytokines with enhanced proliferation without compromising their lineage identity or function. This property can be harnessed for therapeutic Treg manufacturing.
Failure of colorectal cancer (CRC) treatment is due to residual disease, and its timely identification is critical for patient survival. Detecting CRC-associated mutations in patient circulating cell-free DNA is confounded by tumor mutation heterogeneity, requiring primary tumor sequencing to identify relevant mutations. In this study, we assessed BCAT1 and IKZF1 methylation levels to quantify circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and investigated whether this method can be used to assess tumor burden and efficacy of therapy. In 175 patients with CRC who were ctDNA-positive pretreatment, ctDNA levels were higher with advancing stage (P < 0.05) and correlated with tumor diameter (r = 0.35, P < 0.001) and volume (r = 0.58, P < 0.01). After completion of treatment (median of 70 days [IQR 49-109] after surgery, +/- radiotherapy, +/- chemotherapy), ctDNA levels were reduced in 98% (47/48) and were undetectable in 88% (42/48) of patients tested. For those with incomplete adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery, roughly half remained ctDNA-positive (11/21, 52.4%). The presence of ctDNA after treatment was associated with disease progression (HR 9.7, 95%CI 2.5-37.6) compared to no ctDNA. Assaying blood for ctDNA methylated in BCAT1/IKZF1 has the potential for identifying residual disease due to treatment failure, informing a potential need for therapy adjustment in advanced disease.
Growth factor independence-1 (GFI1) is a transcriptional repressor and master regulator of normal and malignant hematopoiesis. Repression by GFI1 is attributable to recruitment of LSD1-containing protein complexes via its SNAG domain. However, the full complement of GFI1 partners in transcriptional control is not known. We show that in T-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells, GFI1 and IKAROS are transcriptional partners that co-occupy regulatory regions of hallmark T-cell development genes. Transcriptional profiling reveals a subset of genes directly transactivated through the GFI1-IKAROS partnership. Among these is NOTCH3, a key factor in T-ALL pathogenesis. Surprisingly, NOTCH3 expression by GFI1 and IKAROS requires the GFI1 SNAG domain but occurs independent of SNAG-LSD1 binding. GFI1 variants deficient in LSD1 binding fail to activate NOTCH3, but conversely, small molecules that disrupt the SNAG-LSD1 interaction while leaving the SNAG primary structure intact stimulate NOTCH3 expression. These results identify a noncanonical transcriptional control mechanism in T-ALL which supports GFI1-mediated transactivation in partnership with IKAROS and suggest competition between LSD1-containing repressive complexes and others favoring transactivation.IMPLICATIONS: Combinatorial diversity and cooperation between DNA binding proteins and complexes assembled by them can direct context-dependent transcriptional outputs to control cell fate and may offer new insights for therapeutic targeting in cancer.
Multiple myeloma is currently incurable, and the incidence rate is increasing year by year worldwide. Although in recent years the combined treatment plan based on proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs has greatly improved the treatment effect of multiple myeloma, most patients still relapse and become resistant to current treatments. To solve this problem, scientists are committed to developing drugs with higher specificity, such as iberdomide, which is highly specific to ikaros and aiolos. This review aims to focus on the small molecular agents that are being researched/clinically used for the treatment of multiple myeloma, including the target mechanism, structure-activity relationship and application prospects of small molecular agents.
BACKGROUND: IKZF1 gene deletions have been identified as a poor prognostic factor in pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), especially in the presence of co-occurring deletions (IKZF1plus profile). This study aimed to determine the frequency of IKZF1 deletions and deletions in other B-cell differentiation and cell cycle control genes, and their prognostic impact in Slovenian pediatric B-ALL patients.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied a cohort of 99 patients diagnosed with B-ALL from January 2012 to December 2020 and treated according to the ALL IC-BFM 2009 protocol. Eighty-eight bone marrow or peripheral blood samples were analysed for copy number variations (CNVs) using the SALSA MLPA P335 ALL-IKZF1 probemix.RESULTS: At least one CNV was detected in more than 65% of analysed samples. The most frequently altered genes were PAX5 and CDKN2A/B (30.7%, 26.1%, and 25.0%, respectively). Deletions in IKZF1 were present in 18.2% of analysed samples and were associated with an inferior 5-year event-free survival (EFS; 54.8% vs. 85.9%, p = 0.016). The IKZF1plus profile was identified in 12.5% of the analysed samples, and these patients had an inferior 5-year EFS than those with deletions in IKZF1 only and those without deletions (50.8% vs. 75.0% vs. 85.9%, respectively, p = 0.049). Overall survival (OS) was also worse in patients with the IKZF1plus profile than those with deletions in IKZF1 only and those without deletions (5-year OS 76.2% vs. 100% vs. 93.0%, respectively). However, the difference between the groups was not statistically significant.CONCLUSIONS: Our results are in concordance with the results obtained in larger cooperative clinical trials. Copy number variations analysis using the SALSA MLPA kit is a reliable tool for initial diagnostic approach in children with B-ALL, even in smaller institutions in low- and middle-income countries.
Ikaros is a zinc finger transcription factor (TF) of the Krüppel family member, which significantly regulates normal lymphopoiesis and tumorigenesis. Ikaros can directly initiate or suppress tumor suppressors or oncogenes, consequently regulating the survival and proliferation of cancer cells. Over recent decades, a series of studies have been devoted to exploring and clarifying the relationship between Ikaros and associated tumors. Therapeutic strategies targeting Ikaros have shown promising therapeutic effects in both pre-clinical and clinical trials. Nevertheless, the increasingly prominent problem of drug resistance targeted to Ikaros and its analog is gradually appearing in our field of vision. This article reviews the role of Ikaros in tumorigenesis, the mechanism of drug resistance, the progress of targeting Ikaros in both pre-clinical and clinical trials, and the potential use of associated therapy in cancer therapy.
Comment in    Blood. 2022 Mar 31;139(13):1932-1933.
Helios, encoded by IKZF2, is a member of the Ikaros family of transcription factors with pivotal roles in T-follicular helper, NK- and T-regulatory cell physiology. Somatic IKZF2 mutations are frequently found in lymphoid malignancies. Although germline mutations in IKZF1 and IKZF3 encoding Ikaros and Aiolos have recently been identified in patients with phenotypically similar immunodeficiency syndromes, the effect of germline mutations in IKZF2 on human hematopoiesis and immunity remains enigmatic. We identified germline IKZF2 mutations (one nonsense (p.R291X)- and 4 distinct missense variants) in six patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, immune thrombocytopenia or EBV-associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. Patients exhibited hypogammaglobulinemia, decreased number of T-follicular helper and NK cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing of PBMCs from the patient carrying the R291X variant revealed upregulation of proinflammatory genes associated with T-cell receptor activation and T-cell exhaustion. Functional assays revealed the inability of HeliosR291X to homodimerize and bind target DNA as dimers. Moreover, proteomic analysis by proximity-dependent Biotin Identification revealed aberrant interaction of 3/5 Helios mutants with core components of the NuRD complex conveying HELIOS-mediated epigenetic and transcriptional dysregulation.
Persons living with HIV (PLWH) are at higher risk of developing secondary illnesses than their uninfected counterparts, suggestive of a dysfunctional immune system in these individuals. Upon exposure to pathogens, monocytes undergo epigenetic remodeling that results in either a trained or a tolerant phenotype, characterized by hyper-responsiveness or hypo-responsiveness to secondary stimuli, respectively. We utilized CD14+ monocytes from virally suppressed PLWH and healthy controls for in vitro analysis following polarization of these cells toward a pro-inflammatory monocyte-derived macrophage (MDM) phenotype. We found that in PLWH-derived MDMs, pro-inflammatory signals (TNFA, IL6, IL1B, miR-155-5p, and IDO1) dominate over negative feedback signals (NCOR2, GSN, MSC, BIN1, and miR-146a-5p), favoring an abnormally trained phenotype. The mechanism of this reduction in negative feedback involves the attenuated expression of IKZF1, a transcription factor required for de novo synthesis of RELA during LPS-induced inflammatory responses. Furthermore, restoring IKZF1 expression in PLWH-MDMs partially reinstated expression of negative regulators of inflammation and lowered the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Overall, this mechanism may provide a link between dysfunctional immune responses and susceptibility to co-morbidities in PLWH with low or undetectable viral load.
Skeletal disorders, including both isolated and syndromic brachydactyly type E, derive from genetic defects affecting the fine tuning of the network of pathways involved in skeletogenesis and growth-plate development. Alterations of different genes of this network may result in overlapping phenotypes, as exemplified by disorders due to the impairment of the parathyroid hormone/parathyroid hormone-related protein pathway, and obtaining a correct diagnosis is sometimes challenging without a genetic confirmation. Five patients with Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy (AHO)-like skeletal malformations without a clear clinical diagnosis were analyzed by whole-exome sequencing (WES) and novel potentially pathogenic variants in parathyroid hormone like hormone (PTHLH) (BDE with short stature [BDE2]) and TRPS1 (tricho-rhino-phalangeal syndrome [TRPS]) were discovered. The pathogenic impact of these variants was confirmed by in vitro functional studies. This study expands the spectrum of genetic defects associated with BDE2 and TRPS and demonstrates the pathogenicity of TRPS1 missense variants located outside both the nuclear localization signal and the GATA ((A/T)GATA(A/G)-binding zinc-containing domain) and Ikaros-like binding domains. Unfortunately, we could not find distinctive phenotypic features that might have led to an earlier clinical diagnosis, further highlighting the high degree of overlap among skeletal syndromes associated with brachydactyly and AHO-like features, and the need for a close interdisciplinary workout in these rare patients. © 2021 The Authors. Journal of Bone and Mineral Research published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR).
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Although Ikaros (IKZF1) is a well-established transcriptional regulator in leukocyte lymphopoiesis and differentiation, its role in myeloid innate immune responses remains unclear. Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) is a histone/protein deacetylase involved in cellular senescence, inflammation, and stress resistance. Whether SIRT1 signaling is essential in myeloid cell activation remains uncertain, while the molecular communication between Ikaros and SIRT1, two major transcriptional regulators, has not been studied.METHODS: We undertook molecular and functional studies to interrogate the significance of the myeloid Ikaros-SIRT1 axis in innate immune activation and whether it may serve as a homeostatic sentinel in human liver transplant recipients (hepatic biopsies) and murine models of sterile hepatic inflammation (liver warm ischemia-reperfusion injury in wild-type, myeloid-specific Sirt1-knockout, and CD11b-DTR mice) as well as primary bone marrow-derived macrophage (BMM) cultures (Ikaros silencing vs. overexpression).RESULTS: In our clinical study, we identified increased post-reperfusion hepatic Ikaros levels, accompanied by augmented inflammasome signaling yet depressed SIRT1, as a mechanism of hepatocellular damage in liver transplant recipients. In our experimental studies, we identified infiltrating macrophages as the major source of Ikaros in IR-stressed mouse livers. Then, we demonstrated that Ikaros-regulated pyroptosis - induced by canonical inflammasome signaling in BMM cultures - was SIRT1 dependent. Consistent with the latter, myeloid-specific Ikaros signaling augmented hepatic pyroptosis to aggravate pro-inflammatory responses in vivo by negatively regulating SIRT1 in an AMPK-dependent manner. Finally, myeloid-specific SIRT1 was required to suppress pyroptosis, pro-inflammatory phenotype, and ultimately mitigate hepatocellular injury in ischemia-stressed murine livers.CONCLUSION: These findings identify the Ikaros-SIRT1 axis as a novel mechanistic biomarker of pyroptosis and a putative checkpoint regulator of homeostasis in response to acute hepatic stress/injury in mouse and human livers.LAY SUMMARY: This report describes how crosstalk between Ikaros and SIRT1, two major transcriptional regulators, influence acute hepatic inflammation in murine models of liver ischemia-reperfusion injury and liver transplant recipients. We show that the myeloid Ikaros-SIRT1 axis regulates inflammasome-pyroptotic cell death and hepatocellular damage in stressed livers. Thus, the Ikaros-SIRT1 axis may serve as a novel checkpoint regulator that is required for homeostasis in response to acute liver injury in mice and humans.
Thalidomide analogues (or immunomodulatory imide drugs, IMiDs) are cornerstones in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). These drugs bind Cereblon (CRBN), a receptor for the Cullin-ring 4 ubiquitin-ligase (CRL4) complex, to modify its substrate specificity. IMiDs mediate CRBN-dependent engagement and proteasomal degradation of 'neosubstrates', Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3), conveying concurrent antimyeloma activity and T-cell costimulation. There is now a greater understanding of physiological CRBN functions, including endogenous substrates and chaperone activity. CRISPR Cas9-based genome-wide screening has further elucidated the complex cellular machinery implicated in IMiD sensitivity, including IKZF1/3-independent mechanisms. New-generation IMiD derivatives with more potent anti-cancer properties-the CELMoDs (Cereblon E3 ligase modulators)-are now being evaluated. Rational drug design also allows 'hijacking' of CRL4CRBN utilising proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) to convey entirely distinct substrate repertoires. As all these chemotypes-thalidomide, IMiDs, CELMoDs and PROTACs-engage CRBN and modify its functions, we describe them here in aggregate as 'CRBN-interacting small molecules' (CISMs). In this review, we provide a contemporary summary of the biological consequences of CRBN modulation by CISMs. Detailed molecular insight into CRBN-CISM interactions now provides an opportunity to more effectively target previously elusive cancer dependencies, representing a new and powerful tool for the implementation of precision medicine.
Cytokine Receptor-Like Factor 2 (CRLF2) overexpression occurs in 5-15% of B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL). In ∼50% of these cases, the mechanisms underlying this dysregulation are unknown. IKAROS Family Zinc Finger 1 (IKZF1) is a possible candidate to play a role in this dysregulation since it binds to the CRLF2 promoter region and suppresses its expression. We hypothesised that IKZF1 loss of function, caused by deletions or its short isoforms expression, could be associated with CRLF2 overexpression in B-ALL. A total of 131 paediatric and adult patients and 7 B-ALL cell lines were analysed to investigate the presence of IKZF1 deletions and its splicing isoforms expression levels, the presence of CRLF2 rearrangements or mutations, CRLF2 expression and JAK2 mutations. Overall survival analyses were performed according to the CRLF2 and IKZF1 subgroups. Our analyses showed that 25.2% of patients exhibited CRLF2 overexpression (CRLF2-high). CRLF2-high was associated with the presence of IKZF1 deletions (IKZF1del, p = 0.001), particularly with those resulting in dominant-negative isoforms (p = 0.006). Moreover, CRLF2 expression was higher in paediatric samples with high loads of the short isoform IK4 (p = 0.011). It was also associated with the occurrence of the IKZF1 plus subgroup (p = 0.004). Furthermore, patients with CRLF2-high/IKZF1del had a poorer prognosis in the RELLA05 protocol (p = 0.067, 36.1 months, 95%CI 0.0-85.9) and adult cohort (p = 0.094, 29.7 months, 95%CI 11.8-47.5). In this study, we show that IKZF1 status is associated with CRLF2-high and dismal outcomes in B-ALL patients regardless of age.
The Ikaros family transcription factors regulate lymphocyte development. Loss-of-function variants in IKZF1 cause primary immunodeficiency, but Ikaros family members IKZF2 and IKZF3 have not yet been associated with immunodeficiency. Here, we describe a pedigree with a heterozygous truncating variant in IKZF2, encoding the transcriptional activator and repressor Helios, which is highly expressed in regulatory T cells and effector T cells, particularly of the CD8+ T cell lineage. Protein-protein interaction analysis revealed that the variant abolished heterodimerization of Helios with Ikaros and Aiolos and also prevented Helios binding to members of the Mi-2/NuRD chromatin remodeling complex. Patients carrying the IKZF2 variant presented with a combined immunodeficiency phenotype characterized by recurrent upper respiratory infections, thrush and mucosal ulcers, and chronic lymphadenopathy. With extensive immunophenotyping, functional assays, and transcriptional analysis, we show that reduced Helios expression was associated with chronic T cell activation and increased production of proinflammatory cytokines both in effector and regulatory T cells. Lymph node histology from patients indicated dysregulated germinal center reactions. Moreover, affected individuals displayed a profound reduction in circulating MAIT cell numbers. In summary, we show that this previously undescribed loss-of-function variant in Helios leads to an immunodeficiency with signs of immune overactivation.
Helios, a member of the Ikaros family of transcription factors, is predominantly expressed in developing thymocytes, activated T cells, and regulatory T cells (Tregs). Studies in mice have emphasized its role in maintenance of Treg immunosuppressive functions by stabilizing Foxp3 expression and silencing the Il2 locus. However, its contribution to human immune homeostasis and the precise mechanisms by which Helios regulates other T cell subsets remain unresolved. Here, we investigated a patient with recurrent respiratory infections and hypogammaglobulinemia and identified a germline homozygous missense mutation in IKZF2 encoding Helios (p.Ile325Val). We found that HeliosI325V retains DNA binding and dimerization properties but loses interaction with several partners, including epigenetic remodelers. Whereas patient Tregs showed increased IL-2 production, patient conventional T cells had decreased accessibility of the IL2 locus and consequently reduced IL-2 production. Reduced chromatin accessibility was not exclusive to the IL2 locus but involved a variety of genes associated with T cell activation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed gene expression signatures indicative of a shift toward a proinflammatory, effector-like status in patient CD8+ T cells. Moreover, patient CD4+ T cells exhibited a pronounced defect in proliferation with delayed expression of surface checkpoint inhibitors, suggesting an impaired onset of the T cell activation program. Collectively, we identified a previously uncharacterized, germline-encoded inborn error of immunity and uncovered a cell-specific defect in Helios-dependent epigenetic regulation. Binding of Helios with specific partners mediates this regulation, which is ultimately necessary for the transcriptional programs that enable T cell homeostasis in health and disease.
BACKGROUND: Philadelphia-like (Ph-like) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a subtype of pediatric leukemia with high risk factors and poor outcome. There are few reports of its prevalence in Latin America.AIM: This study evaluated the frequency and clinical and biological characteristics of Ph-like ALL in a pediatric cancer center in Colombia.METHODS: The Ph-like genetic profile was analyzed by a low-density array (LDA). Samples from patients with Ph-like ALL were analyzed by fluorescent in situ hybridization for cytokine receptor like factor 2 (CRLF2) and ABL proto-oncogene 1, non-receptor tyrosine kinase (ABL1) rearrangements. Copy number variations were assessed by multiplex ligation probe amplification.RESULTS: Data from 121 patients were analyzed. Fifteen patients (12.4%) had Ph-like ALL, and these patients had significantly higher leukocyte counts at diagnosis and higher levels of minimal residual disease on days 15 and 33 of induction than patients without the Ph-like subtype. There were no significant differences in sex, age, or response to prednisone at day 8 between the two groups. CRLF2 rearrangements were identified in eight patients, and ABL1 rearrangements were identified in two patients. Other genetic alterations alone or in combination were identified in 77% of patients, including deletions in cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 2 A/B (46.2%), IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (38.3%), and paired box 5 (30.8%).CONCLUSIONS: Ph-like ALL had a 12.4% prevalence in our cohort of patients with pediatric ALL. The identification of this group of patients has importance for risk stratification and future targeted therapy.
In the past two decades, several methylated DNA targets, including gene promoters and other intronic markers have been explored in tumors and benign lesions. Therefore, it can be expected that a panel of stool-based biomarkers will become a screening method for colorectal cancer (CRC) and adenoma with better sensitivity and specificity, aiming to decrease the incidence and mortality of CRC. In this study, the methylation of secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1), hyperplastic polyposis protein 1 (HPP1), α-internexin (INA), Wnt inhibitory factor 1 (WIF1), tissue factor pathway inhibitor 2 (TFPI2), ikaros family zinc finger protein 1 (IKZF1), and spastic paraplegia 20 (SPG20) were detected in stool samples from patients with CRC, adenoma, polyps, and healthy controls, respectively, and these biomarkers were used to establish a logistic regression model for classification. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were drawn to assess the importance of each biomarker. Subsequently, a biomarker or combination of biomarkers was analyzed for early screening of high-risk neoplasm. The data showed that when a single biomarker was used for CRC screening, the sensitivity ranged from 63.9% to 76.8%, the area under the curve (AUC) ranged from 0.821 to 0.875, and the accuracy ranged from 77.0% to 84.5%. Finally, the methylation of SFRP1, HPP1, TFPI2, and IKZF1 was selected using a backward stepwise method in the multivariate logistic analysis according to the Akaike Information Criterion. These findings indicate that stool DNA biomarkers have good diagnostic power in discriminating high-risk level of neoplasm from healthy population.
AIOLOS/IKZF3 is a member of the IKAROS family of transcription factors. IKAROS/IKZF1 mutations have been previously associated with different forms of primary immunodeficiency. Here we describe a novel combined immunodeficiency due to an IKZF3 mutation in a family presenting with T and B cell involvement, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, and/or chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Patients carrying the AIOLOS p.N160S heterozygous variant displayed impaired humoral responses, abnormal B cell development (high percentage of CD21low B cells and negative CD23 expression), and abrogated CD40 responses. Naive T cells were increased, T cell differentiation was abnormal, and CD40L expression was dysregulated. In vitro studies demonstrated that the mutant protein failed DNA binding and pericentromeric targeting. The mutant was fully penetrant and had a dominant-negative effect over WT AIOLOS but not WT IKAROS. The human immunophenotype was recapitulated in a murine model carrying the corresponding human mutation. As demonstrated here, AIOLOS plays a key role in T and B cell development in humans, and the particular gene variant described is strongly associated with immunodeficiency and likely malignancy.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has been successful in treating hematological malignancy, but solid tumors remain refractory. Here, we demonstrated that knocking out transcription factor IKZF3 in HER2-specific CAR T cells targeting breast cancer cells did not affect CAR expression or CAR T cell differentiation, but markedly enhanced killing of the cancer cells in vitro and in a xenograft model, which was associated with increased T cell activation and proliferation. Furthermore, IKZF3 KO had similar effects on the CD133-specific CAR T cells targeting glioblastoma cells. AlphaLISA and RNA-seq analyses indicate that IKZF3 KO increased the expression of genes involved in cytokine signaling, chemotaxis and cytotoxicity. Our results suggest a general strategy for enhancing CAR T efficacy on solid tumors.
Lenalidomide as well as other immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) have achieved clinical efficacies in certain sub-types of hematologic malignancies, such as multiple myeloma, lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) with a single deletion of chromosome 5q (del(5q)) and others. Despite superior clinical response to lenalidomide in hematologic malignancies, relapse and resistance remains a problem in IMiD-based therapy. The last ten years have witnessed the discovery of novel molecular mechanism of IMiD-based anti-tumor therapy. IMiDs bind human cereblon (CRBN), the substrate receptor of the CRL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Binding of CRBN with IMiDs leads to degradation of the Ikaros family zinc finger proteins 1 and 3 (IKZF1 and IKZF3) and casein kinase 1 alpha. We have found that lenalidomide-mediated degradation of IKZF1 leads to activation of the G protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68)/calcium/calpain pro-apoptotic pathway and inhibition of the regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1)/calcineurin pro-survival pathway in MDS and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Calcineurin inhibitor Cyclosporin-A potentiates the anti-leukemia activity of lenalidomide in MDS/AML with or without del(5q). These findings broaden the therapeutic potential of IMiDs. This review summarizes novel molecular mechanism of lenalidomide in myeloid malignancies, especially without del(5q), in the hope to highlight novel therapeutic targets.
Proteasome inhibitors and immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) are two major types of drugs for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Although different combination therapies for myeloma have been developed and achieved high responsive rate, these strategies frequently result in drug resistance. Therefore, it is necessary to explore new molecular mechanisms and therapeutic approaches to fulfill this unmet medical need. Here, we find that proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (Btz) causes cereblon (CRBN) cleavage and that caspase-8 (CASP-8) is responsible for this cleavage. Either inhibition or genetic depletion of CASP-8 decreased the CRBN cleavage upon Btz treatment, which could potentiate the antimyeloma activity of IMiD lenalidomide (Len). This work suggests that administration of CASP-8 inhibitors might enhance the overall effectiveness of Btz/Len-based therapeutic treatment of patients with myeloma. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Caspase-8 activation upon bortezomib treatment results in the cleavage of cereblon, a substrate receptor of the cullin-4 RING E3 ligase, which is responsible for the degradation of two transcription factors, Ikaros family zinc finger protein (IKZF) 1 and IKZF3, in the presence of immunomodulatory drugs including lenalidomide. The administration of caspase-8 inhibitor may enhance the antimyeloma activity of the combination therapy with bortezomib and lenalidomide.
To assess the prognostic effect of different levels of IKZF1 gene deletions in pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). IKZF1 Δ2-8/ALB deletions were quantified using multiplex real-time quantitative PCR in newly diagnosed pediatric BCP-ALL patients. Seventy-four patients with IKZF1 deletions ≥ 0.01% were included. Clinical characteristics, laboratory data, and treatment outcomes were analyzed. The patients were divided into two groups: IKZF1 deletions <1% (group A) and ≥1% (group B). Group B patients had a higher BCR-ABL1 positive rate than group A patients. The proportions of patients who had an age at onset ≥10 years old, and white blood cell count ≥50 × 109/L were significantly higher in group B than in group A. The 3-year overall survival (OS) and 3-year event-free survival (EFS) rates in group B were 79 ± 8.8% and 62.4 ± 9.7%, respectively, being significantly lower than those in group A (97.7 ± 2.2% and 83.2 ± 5.8%, respectively). The level of IKZF1 deletions ≥1% and the central nervous system leukemia were independent risk factors of EFS. Pediatric BCP-ALL patients with high levels of IKZF1 gene deletions have a poorer prognosis than those with low levels.
Over the past two decades, the improvement in our understanding of the biology of MM and the introduction of new drug classes, including immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), proteasome inhibitors (PI), and monoclonal antibodies (MoAb), have significantly improved outcomes. The first IMiD introduced to treat MM was thalidomide. The side effects observed during treatment with thalidomide initiated work on the synthesis of IMiD analogs. Subsequently, lenalidomide and pomalidomide were developed, both with different safety profiles, and they have better tolerability than thalidomide. In 2010, the cereblon (CRBN) protein was discovered as a direct target of IMiDs. By binding to CRBN, IMiDs change the substrate specificity of the CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, which results in the breakdown of internal Ikaros and Aiolos proteins. Most clinical trials conducted, both in newly diagnosed, post-transplant maintenance and relapsed/refractory MM, report a beneficial effect of IMiDs on the extension of progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with MM. Due to side effects, thalidomide is used less frequently. Currently, lenalidomide is used at every phase of MM treatment. Lenalidomide is used in conjunction with other agents such as PIs and MoAb as induction and relapsed therapy. Pomalidomide is currently used to treat relapsed/refractory MM, also with PIs and monoclonal antibodies. Current clinical trials are evaluating the efficacy of IMiD derivatives, the CRBN E3 ligase modulators (CELMoDs). This review focuses on the impact of IMiDs for the treatment of MM.
Treg therapy holds promise as a potentially curative approach to establish immune tolerance in transplantation and autoimmune disease. An outstanding question is whether therapeutic Tregs have the potential to transdifferentiate into effector T-cells and, thus, exacerbate rather than suppress immune responses. In mice, the transcription factor Helios is thought to promote Treg lineage stability in a range of inflammatory contexts. In humans, the role of Helios in Tregs is less clear, in part, due to the inability to enrich and study subsets of Helios-positive versus Helios-negative Tregs. Using an in vitro expansion system, we found that loss of high Helios expression and emergence of an intermediate Helios (Heliosmid )-expressing population correlated with Treg destabilization. We used CRISPR/Cas9 to genetically ablate Helios expression in human naive or memory Tregs and found that Helios-KO and unedited Tregs were equivalent in their suppressive function and stability in inflammation. Thus, high Helios expression is a marker, but not a driver, of human Treg stability in vitro. These data highlight the importance of monitoring Helios expression in therapeutic Treg manufacturing and provide new insight into the biological function of this transcription factor in human T-cells.
Dendritic cells (DC), the classic antigen-presenting cells of the immune system, switch from an adhesive, phagocytic phenotype in tissues, to a mature, nonadhesive phenotype that enables migration to lymph nodes to activate T cells and initiate antitumor responses. Monocyte-derived DCs are used in cancer immunotherapy, but their clinical efficacy is limited. Here, we show that cultured bone marrow-derived DCs (BM-DC) expressing dysfunctional β2-integrin adhesion receptors displayed enhanced tumor rejection capabilities in B16.OVA and B16-F10 melanoma models. This was associated with an increased CD8+ T-cell response. BM-DCs expressing dysfunctional β2-integrins or manipulated to disrupt integrin adhesion or integrin/actin/nuclear linkages displayed spontaneous maturation in ex vivo cultures (increased costimulatory marker expression, IL12 production, and 3D migration capabilities). This spontaneous maturation was associated with an altered DC epigenetic/transcriptional profile, including a global increase in chromatin accessibility and H3K4me3/H3K27me3 histone methylation. Genome-wide analyses showed that H3K4me3 methylation was increased on DC maturation genes, such as CD86, Il12, Ccr7, and Fscn1, and revealed a role for a transcription factor network involving Ikaros and RelA in the integrin-regulated phenotype of DCs. Manipulation of the integrin-regulated epigenetic landscape in wild-type ex vivo-cultured BM-DCs enhanced their functionality in tumor rejection in vivo. Thus, β2-integrin-mediated adhesion to the extracellular environment plays an important role in restricting DC maturation and antitumor responses through regulation of the cellular epigenetic and transcriptional landscape. Targeting β2-integrins could therefore be a new strategy to improve the performance of current DC-based cancer immunotherapies.
BACKGROUND: Patients with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia are at an increased risk of treatment-related mortality and relapse, which is influenced by unfavourable genetic aberrations (eg, IKZF1 deletion). We aimed to investigate the potential underlying effect of Down syndrome versus the effects of adverse cancer genetics on clinical outcome.METHOD: Patients (aged 1-23 years) with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia and matched non-Down syndrome patients with acute lymphocytic leukaemia (matched controls) from eight trials (DCOG ALL10 and ALL11, ANZCHOG ALL8, AIEOP-BFM ALL2009, UKALL2003, NOPHO ALL2008, CoALL 07-03, and CoALL 08-09) done between 2002 and 2018 across various countries (the Netherlands, the UK, Australia, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and Germany) were included. Participants were matched (1:3) for clinical risk factors and genetics, including IKZF1 deletion. The primary endpoint was the comparison of MRD levels (absolute MRD levels were categorised into two groups, low [<0·0001] and high [≥0·0001]) between patients with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia and matched controls, and the secondary outcomes were comparison of long-term outcomes (event-free survival, overall survival, relapse, and treatment-related mortality [TRM]) between patients with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia and matched controls. Two matched cohorts were formed: for MRD analyses and for long-term outcome analyses. For both cohorts, matching was based on induction regimen; for the long-term outcome cohort, matching also included MRD-guided treatment group. We used mixed-effect models, Cox models, and competing risk for statistical analyses.FINDINGS: Of 251 children and adolescents with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia, 136 were eligible for analyses and matched to 407 (of 8426) non-Down syndrome patients with acute lymphocytic leukaemia (matched controls). 113 patients with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia were excluded from matching in accordance with predefined rules, no match was available for two patients with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia. The proportion of patients with high MRD at the end of induction treatment was similar for patients with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia (52 [38%] of 136) and matched controls (157 [39%] of 403; OR 0·97 [95% CI 0·64-1·46]; p=0·88). Patients with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia had a higher relapse risk than did matched controls in the IKZF1 deleted group (relapse at 5 years 37·1% [17·1-57·2] vs 13·2% [6·1-23·1]; cause-specific hazard ratio [HRcs] 4·3 [1·6-11·0]; p=0·0028), but not in the IKZF1 wild-type group (relapse at 5 years 5·8% [2·1-12·2] vs 8·1% [5·1-12·0]; HRcs 1·0 [0·5-2·1]; p=0·99). In addition to increased induction deaths (15 [6%] of 251 vs 69 [0·8%] of 8426), Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia was associated with a higher risk of post-induction TRM compared with matched controls (TRM at 5 years 12·2% [7·0-18·9] vs 2·7% [1·3-4·9]; HRcs 5·0 [2·3-10·8]; p<0·0001).INTERPRETATION: Induction treatment is equivalently effective for patients with Down syndrome and acute lymphocytic leukaemia and for matched patients without Down syndrome. Down syndrome itself provides an additional risk in individuals with IKZF1 deletions, suggesting an interplay between the germline environment and this poor risk somatic aberration. Different treatment strategies are warranted considering both inherent risk of relapse and high risk of TRM.FUNDING: Stichting Kinder Oncologisch Centrum Rotterdam and the Princess Máxima Center Foundation, NHMRC Australia, The Cancer Council NSW, Tour de Cure, Blood Cancer UK, UK Medical Research Council, Children with Cancer, Swedish Society for Pediatric Cancer, Swedish Childhood Cancer Fund, Danish Cancer Society and the Danish Childhood Cancer Foundation.
PURPOSE: Despite the remarkable activity of BTK inhibitors (BTKi) in relapsed B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL), no clinically-relevant biomarker has been associated to these agents so far. The relevance of phosphoproteomic profiling for the early identification of BTKi responders remains underexplored.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A set of six clinical samples from an ongoing phase I trial dosing patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with TG-1701, a novel irreversible and highly specific BTKi, were characterized by phosphoproteomic and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. The activity of TG-1701 was evaluated in a panel of 11 B-NHL cell lines and mouse xenografts, including two NF-κB- and BTKC481S-driven BTKi-resistant models. Biomarker validation and signal transduction analysis were conducted through real-time PCR, Western blot analysis, immunostaining, and gene knockout (KO) experiments.RESULTS: A nonsupervised, phosphoproteomic-based clustering did match the early clinical outcomes of patients with CLL and separated a group of "early-responders" from a group of "late-responders." This clustering was based on a selected list of 96 phosphosites with Ikaros-pSer442/445 as a potential biomarker for TG-1701 efficacy. TG-1701 treatment was further shown to blunt Ikaros gene signature, including YES1 and MYC, in early-responder patients as well as in BTKi-sensitive B-NHL cell lines and xenografts. In contrast, Ikaros nuclear activity and signaling remained unaffected by the drug in vitro and in vivo in late-responder patients and in BTKC481S, BTKKO, and noncanonical NF-κB models.CONCLUSIONS: These data validate phosphoproteomic as a valuable tool for the early detection of response to BTK inhibition in the clinic, and for the determination of drug mechanism of action.
The repurposing of biomedical data is inhibited by its fragmented and multi-formatted nature that requires redundant investment of time and resources by data scientists. This is particularly true for Type 1 Diabetes (T1D), one of the most intensely studied common childhood diseases. Intense investigation of the contribution of pancreatic β-islet and T-lymphocytes in T1D has been made. However, genetic contributions from B-lymphocytes, which are known to play a role in a subset of T1D patients, remain relatively understudied. We have addressed this issue through the creation of Biomedical Data Commons (BMDC), a knowledge graph that integrates data from multiple sources into a single queryable format. This increases the speed of analysis by multiple orders of magnitude. We develop a pipeline using B-lymphocyte multi-dimensional epigenome and connectome data and deploy BMDC to assess genetic variants in the context of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D). Pipeline-identified variants are primarily common, non-coding, poorly conserved, and are of unknown clinical significance. While variants and their chromatin connectivity are cell-type specific, they are associated with well-studied disease genes in T-lymphocytes. Candidates include established variants in the HLA-DQB1 and HLA-DRB1 and IL2RA loci that have previously been demonstrated to protect against T1D in humans and mice providing validation for this method. Others are included in the well-established T1D GRS2 genetic risk scoring method. More intriguingly, other prioritized variants are completely novel and form the basis for future mechanistic and clinical validation studies The BMDC community-based platform can be expanded and repurposed to increase the accessibility, reproducibility, and productivity of biomedical information for diverse applications including the prioritization of cell type-specific disease alleles from complex phenotypes.
BACKGROUND: Standard therapy for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-mutant non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is lacking. The clinical benefits with pan-HER inhibitors (afatinib, neratinib, and dacomitinib), anti-HER2 antibody drug conjugate (ADC) trastuzumab emtansine, and an emerging irreversible tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) poziotinib were modest. Another new ADC trastuzumab deruxtecan showed encouraging outcomes, but only phase I study was completed. Pyrotinib, another emerging irreversible epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/HER2 dual TKI, has been approved in HER2-positive breast cancer in 2018 in China. It has shown promising antitumor activity against HER2-mutant NSCLC in phase II trials, but pyrotinib-related diarrhea remains an issue. The antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory drug thalidomide is a cereblon-based molecular glue that can induce the degradation of the IKAROS family transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3. The use of thalidomide can also decrease gastrointestinal toxicity induced by anti-cancer therapy.METHODS: This is an open-label, single-arm phase II trial. A total of 39 advanced NSCLC patients with HER2 exon 20 insertions and ≤ 2 lines of prior chemotherapy will be recruited, including treatment-naïve patients who refuse chemotherapy. Patients are allowed to have prior therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors and/or antiangiogenic agents. Those who have prior HER2-targeting therapy or other gene alterations with available targeted drugs are excluded. Eligible patients will receive oral pyrotinib 400 mg once daily and oral thalidomide 200 mg once daily until disease progression or intolerable toxicity. The primary endpoint is objective response rate.DISCUSSION: The addition of thalidomide to pyrotinib is expected to increase the clinical benefit in advanced NSCLC patients with HER2 exon 20 insertions, and reduce the incidence of pyrotinib-related diarrhea. We believe thalidomide is the stone that can hit two birds.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04382300 . Registered on May 11, 2020.
Mutations in splicing factor genes have a severe impact on the survival of cancer patients. Splicing factor 3b subunit 1 (SF3B1) is one of the most frequently mutated genes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL); patients carrying these mutations have a poor prognosis. Since the splicing machinery and the epigenome are closely interconnected, we investigated whether these alterations may affect the epigenomes of CLL patients. While an overall hypomethylation during CLL carcinogenesis has been observed, the interplay between the epigenetic stage of the originating B cells and SF3B1 mutations, and the subsequent effect of the mutations on methylation alterations in CLL, have not been investigated. We profiled the genome-wide DNA methylation patterns of 27 CLL patients with and without SF3B1 mutations and identified local decreases in methylation levels in SF3B1mut CLL patients at 67 genomic regions, mostly in proximity to telomeric regions. These differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were enriched in gene bodies of cancer-related signaling genes, e.g., NOTCH1, HTRA3, and BCL9L. In our study, SF3B1 mutations exclusively emerged in two out of three epigenetic stages of the originating B cells. However, not all the DMRs could be associated with the methylation programming of B cells during development, suggesting that mutations in SF3B1 cause additional epigenetic aberrations during carcinogenesis.
IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) alterations represent a diverse group of genetic lesions that are associated with an increased risk of relapse in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Due to the heterogeneity of concomitant lesions, it remains unclear how IKZF1 abnormalities directly affect cell function and therapy resistance, and whether their consideration as a prognostic indicator is valuable in improving outcome. CRISPR/Cas9 strategies were used to engineer multiple panels of isogeneic lymphoid leukemia cell lines with a spectrum of IKZF1 lesions to measure changes in chemosensitivity, gene expression, cell cycle, and in vivo engraftment that can be linked to loss of IKAROS protein. IKZF1 knockout and heterozygous null cells displayed relative resistance to a number of common therapies for B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, including dexamethasone, asparaginase, and daunorubicin. Transcription profiling revealed a stem/myeloid cell-like phenotype and JAK/STAT upregulation after IKAROS loss. A CRISPR homology-directed repair strategy was also used to knock-in the dominant-negative IK6 isoform into the endogenous locus, and a similar drug resistance profile, with the exception of retained dexamethasone sensitivity, was observed. Interestingly, IKZF1 knockout and IK6 knock-in cells both have significantly increased sensitivity to cytarabine, likely owing to marked downregulation of SAMHD1 after IKZF1 knockout. Both types of IKZF1 lesions decreased the survival time of xenograft mice, with higher numbers of circulating blasts and increased organ infiltration. Given these findings, exact specification of IKZF1 status in patients may be a beneficial addition to risk stratification and could inform therapy.
IKZF1 deletions (ΔIKZF1) are commonly detected in B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL; B-ALL) and are widely assumed to have a significant impact on outcome. We compared the ability of multiplex ligand-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect ΔIKZF1 and to determine the impact on event-free survival of patients with precursor B-ALL aged 23 to 65 years recruited to the completed trial UKALL14 (ISRCTN 66541317). From 655 recruits with BCR-ABL1+ and BCR-ABL1- B-ALL, all available diagnostic DNA samples (76% of the recruited population) were screened by multiplex end point PCR covering 4 deletions: dominant-negative (DN) Δ4-7 or the loss of function Δ2-7, Δ4-8, and Δ2-8 (n = 498), MLPA (n = 436), or by both (n = 420). Although patients with BCR-ABL1- ΔIKZF1 were more likely to have minimal residual disease at the end of induction, we did not find any impact of ΔIKZF1 (including subgroup analysis for DN or loss-of-function lesions) or the IKZF1plus genotype on event-free, overall survival, or relapse risk by univariable or multivariable analyses. Consistent with the technical approach, MLPA not only detected a wider range of deletions than PCR but also failed to detect some PCR-detected lesions. The main difference between our study and others reporting an association between ΔIKZF1 and outcome is the older age of participants in our population. The impact of ΔIKZF1 in ALL may be less marked in an older population of patients. Our study underscores the need for analyses in large, harmonized data sets. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT01085617.
Mammalian cochlear outer hair cells (OHCs) are essential for hearing. Severe hearing impairment follows OHC degeneration. Previous attempts at regenerating new OHCs from cochlear supporting cells (SCs) have been unsuccessful, notably lacking expression of the key OHC motor protein, Prestin. Thus, regeneration of Prestin+ OHCs represents a barrier to restore auditory function in vivo. Here, we reported the successful in vivo conversion of adult mouse cochlear SCs into Prestin+ OHC-like cells through the concurrent induction of two key transcriptional factors known to be necessary for OHC development: Atoh1 and Ikzf2. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed the upregulation of 729 OHC genes and downregulation of 331 SC genes in OHC-like cells. The resulting differentiation status of these OHC-like cells was much more advanced than previously achieved. This study thus established an efficient approach to induce the regeneration of Prestin+ OHCs, paving the way for in vivo cochlear repair via SC transdifferentiation.
BACKGROUND: Th cells (helper T cells) have multiple functions in Schistosoma japonicum (S. japonicum) infection. Inducible co-stimulator (ICOS) is induced and expressed in activated T lymphocytes, which enhances the development of B cells and antibody production through the ICOS/ICOSL pathway. It remains unclear about the role and possible regulating mechanism of ICOS+ Th cells in the spleen of S. japonicum-infected C57BL/6 mice.METHODS: C57BL/6 mice were infected with cercariae of S. japonicum through the abdomen. The expression of ICOS, activation markers, and the cytokine production on CD4+ ICOS+ Th cells were detected by flow cytometry (FCM) and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Moreover, the differentially expressed gene data of ICOS+ and ICOS- Th cells from the spleen of infected mice were obtained by mRNA sequencing. Besides, Western blot and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) were used to explore the role of Ikzf2 on ICOS expression.RESULTS: After S. japonicum infection, the expression of ICOS molecules gradually increased in splenic lymphocytes, especially in Th cells (P < 0.01). Compared with ICOS- Th cells, more ICOS+ Th cells expressed CD69, CD25, CXCR5, and CD40L (P < 0.05), while less of them expressed CD62L (P < 0.05). Also, ICOS+ Th cells expressed more cytokines, such as IFN-γ, IL-4, IL-10, IL-2, and IL-21 (P < 0.05). RNA sequencing results showed that many transcription factors were increased significantly in ICOS+ Th cells, especially Ikzf2 (P < 0.05). And then, the expression of Ikzf2 was verified to be significantly increased and mainly located in the nuclear of ICOS+ Th cells. Finally, ChIP experiments and dual-luciferase reporter assay confirmed that Ikzf2 could directly bind to the ICOS promoter in Th cells.CONCLUSION: In this study, ICOS+ Th cells were found to play an important role in S. japonicum infection to induce immune response in the spleen of C57BL/6 mice. Additionally, Ikzf2 was found to be one important transcription factor that could regulate the expression of ICOS in the spleen of S. japonicum-infected C57BL/6 mice.
Erratum in    AAPS J. 2022 Jan 14;24(1):29.
AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: We examined whether the non-HLA susceptibility locus ERBB3/IKZF4 influences progression of type 1 diabetes stage specifically according to sex.METHODS: SNPs of ERBB3 (rs2292239 T/G) and IKZF4 (rs1701704 G/T) were screened by allelic discrimination quantitative PCR assay in first-degree relatives of type 1 diabetes patients who had developed at least one circulating autoantibody. The effect of ERBB3/IKZF4 genotypes and sex, on the progression of single autoantibody positivity to multiple autoantibody positivity and from multiple autoantibody positivity to diabetes, was studied by Kaplan-Meier analysis and multivariate Cox regression.RESULTS: In the cohort of autoantibody-positive first-degree relatives, the risk allele frequencies for ERBB3 rs2292239 (T) and IKZF4 rs1701704 (G) were increased. There was a significant male excess at the stage of multiple autoantibody positivity (p = 0.021). In Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, progression from single to multiple antibody positivity was delayed in female participants with genotype ERBB3 GG (p = 0.018, vs ERBB3 TG+TT) or IKZF4 TT (p = 0.023, vs IKZF4 GT+GG), but not in male participants. In multivariate Cox regression models, the interaction effects between female sex and ERBB3 GG (p = 0.012; HR = 0.305 [95% CI 0.120, 0.773]) or between female sex and IKZF4 TT (p = 0.011; HR = 0.329 [95% CI 0.140, 0.777]) emerged as potential determinants of delayed progression to multiple autoantibodies. The progression from multiple autoantibody positivity to type 1 diabetes appeared not to be influenced by ERBB3/IKZF4.CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: In siblings and offspring of type 1 diabetes patients, polymorphism in region ERBB3/IKZF4 may affect disease progression at the level of epitope spreading in female individuals. Our findings suggest that interaction between sex and ERBB3/IKZF4 may contribute to the post-pubertal male excess in type 1 diabetes.
IMPORTANCE: Alterations in the IKZF1 gene drive B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) but are not routinely used to stratify patients by risk because of inconsistent associations with outcomes. We describe a novel deletion in 22q11.22 that was consistently associated with very poor outcomes in patients with B-ALL with IKZF1 alterations.OBJECTIVE: To determine whether focal deletions within the λ variable chain region in chromosome 22q11.22 were associated with patients with B-ALL with IKZF1 alterations with the highest risk of relapse and/or death.DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This cohort study included 1310 primarily high-risk pediatric patients with B-ALL who were taken from 6 independent clinical cohorts, consisting of 3 multicenter cohorts (AALL0232 [2004-2011], P9906 [2000-2003], and patients with Down syndrome who were pooled from national and international studies) and 3 single-institution cohorts (University of Utah [Salt Lake City], Children's Hospital of Philadelphia [Philadelphia, Pennsylvania], and St. Jude Children's Hospital [Memphis, Tennessee]). Data analysis began in 2011 using patients from the older studies first, and data analysis concluded in 2021.EXPOSURES: Focal 22q11.22 deletions.MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Event-free and overall survival was investigated. The hypothesis that 22q11.22 deletions stratified the prognostic effect of IKZF1 alterations was formulated while investigating nearby deletions in VPREB1 in 2 initial cohorts (n = 270). Four additional cohorts were then obtained to further study this association (n = 1040).RESULTS: This study of 1310 patients with B-ALL (717 male [56.1%] and 562 female patients [43.9%]) found that focal 22q11.22 deletions are frequent (518 of 1310 [39.5%]) in B-ALL and inconsistent with physiologic V(D)J recombination. A total of 299 of 1310 patients with B-ALL had IKZF1 alterations. Among patients with IKZF1 alterations, more than half shared concomitant focal 22q11.22 deletions (159 of 299 [53.0%]). Patients with combined IKZF1 alterations and 22q11.22 deletions had worse outcomes compared with patients with IKZF1 alterations and wild-type 22q11.22 alleles in every cohort examined (combined cohorts: 5-year event-free survival rates, 43.3% vs 68.5%; hazard ratio [HR], 2.18; 95% CI, 1.54-3.07; P < .001; 5-year overall survival rates, 66.9% vs 83.9%; HR, 2.05; 95% CI, 1.32-3.21; P = .001). While 22q11.22 deletions were not prognostic in patients with wild-type IKZF1 , concomitant 22q11.22 deletions in patients with IKZF1 alterations stratified outcomes across additional risk groups, including patients who met the IKZF1plus criteria, and maintained independent significance in multivariate analysis for event-free survival (HR, 2.05; 95% CI, 1.27-3.29; P = .003) and overall survival (HR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.01-3.34; P = .05).CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This cohort study suggests that 22q11.22 deletions identify patients with B-ALL and IKZF1 alterations who have very poor outcomes and may offer a new genetic biomarker to further refine B-ALL risk stratification and treatment strategies.
Molecular glues and proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) are promising new therapeutic modalities. However, the lack of specificity for molecular glue- or PROTAC-mediated proteolysis in cancer cells versus normal cells raises potential toxicity concerns that will likely limit their clinical applications. Here, we developed a general strategy to deliver immunomodulatory imide drug (IMiD)-based molecular glues and PROTACs to folate receptor α (FOLR1)-positive cancer cells. Specifically, we designed a folate-caged pomalidomide prodrug, FA-S2-POMA, by incorporating a folate group as a caging and guiding element and validated its degradation effect on its neo-substrates in FOLR1-positive cancer cells in a FOLR1-dependent manner. We also developed a folate-caged pomalidomide-based anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) PROTAC, FA-S2-MS4048, which effectively degraded ALK fusion proteins in cancer cells, again in a FOLR1-dependent manner. This novel approach provides a generalizable platform for the targeted delivery of IMiD-based molecular glues and PROTACs to FOLR1-expressing cancer cells with the potential to ameliorate toxicity.
The normal expression of Ikaros (IKZF1) is important for the proper functioning of both the human and murine immune systems. Whilst our understanding of IKZF1 in the immune system has been greatly enhanced by the study of mice carrying mutations in Ikzf1, analyses of human patients carrying germline IKZF1 mutations have been instrumental in understanding its biological role within the human immune system and its effect on human disease. A myriad of different mutations in IKZF1 have been identified, spanning across the entire gene causing differential clinical outcomes in patients including immunodeficiency, immune dysregulation, and cancer. The majority of mutations in humans leading to IKAROS-associated diseases are single amino acid heterozygous substitutions that affect the overall function of the protein. The majority of mutations studied in mice however, affect the expression of the protein rather than its function. Murine studies would suggest that the complete absence of IKZF1 expression leads to severe and sometimes catastrophic outcomes, yet these extreme phenotypes are not commonly observed in patients carrying IKZF1 heterozygous mutations. It is unknown whether this discrepancy is simply due to differences in zygosity, the role and regulation of IKZF1 in the murine and human immune systems, or simply due to a lack of similar controls across both groups. This review will focus its analysis on the current literature surrounding what is known about germline IKZF1 defects in both the human and the murine immune systems, and whether existing mice models are indeed accurate tools to study the effects of IKZF1-associated diseases.
Group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) manifest tissue heterogeneity and are crucial modulators of regional immune responses. The molecular mechanisms regulating tissue ILC2 properties remain elusive. Here, we interrogate the signatures of ILC2s from five tissues at the transcriptome and epigenetic level. We have found that tissue microenvironment strongly shapes ILC2 identities. The intestine induces Aiolos+ILC2s, whereas lung and pancreas enhance Galectin-1+ILC2s. Though being a faithful gut ILC2 feature under the steady state, Aiolos is induced in non-intestinal ILC2s by pro-inflammatory cytokines. Specifically, IL-33 stimulates Aiolos expression in both human and mouse non-intestinal ILC2s. Functionally, Aiolos facilitates eosinophil recruitment by supporting IL-5 production and proliferation of ST2+ILC2s through inhibiting PD-1. At the epigenetic level, ILC2 tissue characters are imprinted by open chromatin regions (OCRs) at non-promoters. Intestinal-specific transcription factor aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) binds to Ikzf3 (encoding Aiolos) locus, increases the accessibility of an intestinal ILC2-specific OCR, and promotes the Ikzf3 transcription by enhancing H3K27ac. Consequently, Ahr prevents ILC2s entering an "exhausted-like" state through sustaining Aiolos expression. Our work elucidates mechanism of ILC2 tissue adaptation and highlights Aiolos as a potential target of type 2 inflammation.
Expression of Ikaros family transcription factor IKZF3 (Aiolos) increases during murine eosinophil lineage commitment and maturation. Herein, we investigated Aiolos expression and function in mature human and murine eosinophils. Murine eosinophils deficient in Aiolos demonstrated gene expression changes in pathways associated with granulocyte-mediated immunity, chemotaxis, degranulation, ERK/MAPK signaling, and extracellular matrix organization; these genes had ATAC peaks within 1 kB of the TSS that were enriched for Aiolos-binding motifs. Global Aiolos deficiency reduced eosinophil frequency within peripheral tissues during homeostasis; a chimeric mouse model demonstrated dependence on intrinsic Aiolos expression by eosinophils. Aiolos deficiency reduced eosinophil CCR3 surface expression, intracellular ERK1/2 signaling, and CCL11-induced actin polymerization, emphasizing an impaired functional response. Aiolos-deficient eosinophils had reduced tissue accumulation in chemokine-, antigen-, and IL-13-driven inflammatory experimental models, all of which at least partially depend on CCR3 signaling. Human Aiolos expression was associated with active chromatin marks enriched for IKZF3, PU.1, and GATA-1-binding motifs within eosinophil-specific histone ChIP-seq peaks. Furthermore, treating the EOL-1 human eosinophilic cell line with lenalidomide yielded a dose-dependent decrease in Aiolos. These collective data indicate that eosinophil homing during homeostatic and inflammatory allergic states is Aiolos-dependent, identifying Aiolos as a potential therapeutic target for eosinophilic disease.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) exert a highly suppressive function in the immune system. Disturbances in their function predispose an individual to autoimmune dysregulation, with a predominance of the pro-inflammatory environment. Besides Foxp3, which is a master regulator of these cells, other genes (e.g., Il2ra, Ctla4, Tnfrsf18, Ikzf2, and Ikzf4) are also involved in Tregs development and function. Multidimensional Tregs suppression is determined by factors that are believed to be crucial in the action of Tregs-related genes. Among them, epigenetic changes, such as DNA methylation, tend to be widely studied over the past few years. DNA methylation acts as a repressive mark, leading to diminished gene expression. Given the role of increased CpG methylation upon Tregs imprinting and functional stability, alterations in the methylation pattern can cause an imbalance in the immune response. Due to the fact that epigenetic changes can be reversible, so-called epigenetic modifiers are broadly used in order to improve Tregs performance. In this review, we place emphasis on the role of DNA methylation of the genes that are key regulators of Tregs function. We also discuss disease settings that have an impact on the methylation status of Tregs and systematize the usefulness of epigenetic drugs as factors able to influence Tregs functions.
IKAROS is a pioneer protein of the IKZF family of transcription factors that plays an essential role in lymphocyte development. Recently, inborn errors of IKAROS have been identified in patients with B cell deficiency and hypogammaglobulinemia, and these patients often present with recurrent sinopulmonary infection. Autoimmunity and hematologic malignancies are other characteristic complications seen in the patients with IKAROS deficiency. Missense mutation involving asparagine at the 159th position results in combined immunodeficiency, often presenting with Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. Inborn errors of AIOLOS, HELIOS, and PEGASUS have also been reported in patients with B cell deficiency, Evans syndrome, and hereditary thrombocytopenia, respectively. Here, we briefly review the phenotype and genotype of IKZF mutations, especially IKAROS.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) expressing the Foxp3 transcription factor are indispensable for the maintenance of immune system homeostasis. Tregs may lose Foxp3 expression or be reprogrammed into cells that produce proinflammatory cytokines, for example, Th1-like Tregs, Th2-like Tregs, Th17-like Tregs, and Tfh-like Tregs. Accordingly, selective therapeutic molecules that manipulate Treg lineage stability and/or functional activity might have the potential to improve aberrant immune responses in human disorders. In particular, the transcription factor Helios has emerged as an important marker and modulator of Tregs. Therefore, the current review focuses on recent findings on the expression, function, and mechanisms of Helios, as well as the patterns of Foxp3+ Tregs coexpressing Helios in various human disorders, in order to explore the potential of Helios for the improvement of many immune-related diseases. The studies were selected from PubMed using the library of the Nanjing Medical University in this review. The findings of the included studies indicate that Helios expression stabilizes the phenotype and function of Foxp3+ Tregs in certain inflammatory environments. Further, Tregs coexpressing Helios and Foxp3 were identified as a specific phenotype of stronger suppressor immune cells in both humans and animal models. Importantly, there is ample evidence that Helios-expressing Foxp3+ Tregs are relevant to various human disorders, including connective tissue diseases, infectious diseases, solid organ transplantation-related immunity, and cancer. Thus, Helios+Foxp3+CD4+ Tregs could be a valuable target in human diseases, and their potential should be explored further in the clinical setting.
DNA-binding protein Ikaros is a major determinant of haematopoietic lineage, especially in the development, differentiation and proliferation of lymphocytes. In the present study, a Ikaros homologue (designed as CgIkaros-like) was identified and characterized as a vital determinant in the proliferation of haemocytes during haematopoiesis of Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas. The complete coding sequence of CgIkaros-like was of 1329 bp encoding a predicted polypeptide of 442 amino acids with four ZnF regions, locating at the C-terminus and N-terminus respectively. The highest expression level of CgIkaros-like mRNA was found in gills, followed by haemocytes and gonad. The mRNA transcripts of CgIkaros-like could be detected in all the haemocytes with higher abundance in semi-granulocytes and agranulocytes. CgIkaros-like protein was localized in both of cytoplasm and nucleus with higher abundance in nucleus of oyster haemocytes. The mRNA and protein expression levels of agranulocyte marker CgCD9, granulocyte marker CgAATase, cell cycle related gene CgCDK2, Notch receptor CgNotch and Notch target gene CgHes1 all increased significantly (p < 0.05) after CgIkaros-like was interfered by siRNAs, which were about 27.33-, 2.63-, 24.34-, 4.45- and 6.08-fold of that in the siRNA-NC control group, respectively. While the transcripts of CgGATA3 and CgRunx did not change significantly after CgIkaros-like was interfered. These results demonstrated that CgIkaros-like functioned as a transcription factor combined with Notch pathway to mediate CgCDK2 and regulate the proliferation of oyster haemocytes.
Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) represent a special lineage of CD4+ T cells. Analysis of Treg response during primary and secondary influenza virus infection clearly demonstrates a robust accumulation of Tregs into the infected lungs and the existence of a population of long-lived antigen-specific memory Tregs in the same tissues after resolution of the infection. However, it remains unknown whether these Tregs co-express Helios, a member of the Ikaros transcription factor family. In this study, Foxp3+ Helios+ and Foxp3+ Helios- Tregs in the lungs, mLNs and spleens of influenza virus-infected and uninfected control mice were tracked. The data show that while there is a co-existence of Foxp3+ Helios+ and Foxp3+ Helios- Tregs in the tissues, the accumulated Tregs in the lungs and lung-draining mediastinal lymph nodes (mLNs) of the infected mice are highly enriched for Foxp3+ Helios+ cells. It was further demonstrated that, after the clearance of primary infection, Foxp3+ Helios+ cells have the ability to persist in the tissues over their Helios- counterparts. More importantly, Foxp3+ Helios+ Tregs accumulated in an accelerated kinetics during recall response to reinfection. In vitro analysis of Treg suppressive function revealed that Foxp3+ Helios+ Tregs are more capable of suppressing influenza virus-specific CD8+ T cell activation, cytokine production and proliferation. Together, the data provide new insights into Treg responses during primary and secondary influenza virus infection and suggest that Foxp3+ Helios+ Tregs predominantly drive the Treg responses.
Philadelphia chromosome-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL) is a high-risk subtype of B-ALL often associated with genetic variants that alter cytokine receptor signaling, including mutations in the interleukin-7 receptor (IL7R). To investigate whether IL7R variants are leukemia-initiating, we built mouse models expressing activated Il7r (aIL7R). B-cell intrinsic aIL7R mice developed spontaneous B-ALL, demonstrating sufficiency of Il7r activating mutations in leukemogenesis. Concomitant introduction of a knock-out allele in the associated adapter protein Lnk (encoded by Sh2b3) or a dominant-negative variant of the transcription factor Ikaros (Ikzf1) increased disease penetrance. The resulting murine leukemias displayed monoclonality and recurrent somatic Kras mutations and efficiently engrafted into immunocompetent mice. Phosphoproteomic analyses of aIL7R leukemic cells revealed constitutive Stat5 signaling and B cell receptor (BCR)-like signaling despite the absence of surface pre-BCR. Finally, in vitro treatment of aIL7R leukemic B-cells with Jak, mTOR, or Syk inhibitors blocked growth, confirming that each pathway is active in this mouse model of IL7R-driven B-ALL.
PURPOSE: The efficacy of EZH2 inhibition has been modest in the initial clinical exploration of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), yet EZH2 inhibitors are well tolerated. Herein, we aimed to uncover genetic and pharmacologic opportunities to enhance the clinical efficacy of EZH2 inhibitors in DLBCL.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We conducted a genome-wide sensitizing CRISPR/Cas9 screen with tazemetostat, a catalytic inhibitor of EZH2. The sensitizing effect of IKZF1 loss of function was then validated and leveraged for combination treatment with lenalidomide. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing analyses were performed to elucidate transcriptomic and epigenetic changes underlying synergy.RESULTS: We identified IKZF1 knockout as the top candidate for sensitizing DLBCL cells to tazemetostat. Treating cells with tazemetostat and lenalidomide, an immunomodulatory drug that selectively degrades IKAROS and AIOLOS, phenocopied the effects of the CRISPR/Cas9 screen. The combined drug treatment triggered either cell-cycle arrest or apoptosis in a broad range of DLBCL cell lines, regardless of EZH2 mutational status. Cell-line-based xenografts also showed slower tumor growth and prolonged survival in the combination treatment group. RNA-seq analysis revealed strong upregulation of interferon signaling and antiviral immune response signatures. Gene expression of key immune response factors such as IRF7 and DDX58 were induced in cells treated with lenalidomide and tazemetostat, with a concomitant increase of H3K27 acetylation at their promoters. Furthermore, transcriptome analysis demonstrated derepression of endogenous retroviruses after combination treatment.CONCLUSIONS: Our data underscore the synergistic interplay between IKAROS degradation and EZH2 inhibition on modulating epigenetic changes and ultimately enhancing antitumor effects in DLBCL.
IKZF1 encodes Ikaros, a zinc finger-containing transcription factor crucial to the development of the hematopoietic system. Germline pathogenic variants in IKZF1 have been reported in patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia and immunodeficiency syndromes. Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA) is a rare inherited bone marrow failure syndrome characterized by erythroid hypoplasia, associated with a spectrum of congenital anomalies and an elevated risk of certain cancers. DBA is usually caused by heterozygous pathogenic variants in genes that function in ribosomal biogenesis; however, in many cases the genetic etiology is unknown. We identified a germline IKZF1 variant, rs757907717 C > T, in identical twins with DBA-like features and autoimmune gastrointestinal disease. rs757907717 C > T results in a p.R381C amino acid change in the IKZF1 Ik-x isoform (p.R423C on isoform Ik-1), which we show is associated with altered global gene expression and perturbation of transcriptional networks involved in hematopoietic system development. These data suggest that this missense substitution caused a DBA-like syndrome in this family because of alterations in hematopoiesis, including dysregulation of networks essential for normal erythropoiesis and the immune system.
In the present study, we report a human-inherited, impaired, adaptive immunity disorder, which predominantly manifested as a B cell differentiation defect, caused by a heterozygous IKZF3 missense variant, resulting in a glycine-to-arginine replacement within the DNA-binding domain of the encoded AIOLOS protein. Using mice that bear the corresponding variant and recapitulate the B and T cell phenotypes, we show that the mutant AIOLOS homodimers and AIOLOS-IKAROS heterodimers did not bind the canonical AIOLOS-IKAROS DNA sequence. In addition, homodimers and heterodimers containing one mutant AIOLOS bound to genomic regions lacking both canonical motifs. However, the removal of the dimerization capacity from mutant AIOLOS restored B cell development. Hence, the adaptive immunity defect is caused by the AIOLOS variant hijacking IKAROS function. Heterodimeric interference is a new mechanism of autosomal dominance that causes inborn errors of immunity by impairing protein function via the mutation of its heterodimeric partner.
Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) induction constitutes a valuable and validated approach to treat the symptoms of sickle cell disease (SCD). Here, we synthesized pomalidomide-nitric oxide (NO) donor derivatives (3a-f) and evaluated their suitability as novel HbF inducers. All compounds demonstrated different capacities of releasing NO, ranging 0.3-30.3%. Compound 3d was the most effective HbF inducer for CD34+ cells, exhibiting an effect similar to that of hydroxyurea. We investigated the mode of action of compound 3d for HbF induction by studying the in vitro alterations in the levels of transcription factors (BCL11A, IKAROS, and LRF), inhibition of histone deacetylase enzymes (HDAC-1 and HDAC-2), and measurement of cGMP levels. Additionally, compound 3d exhibited a potent anti-inflammatory effect similar to that of pomalidomide by reducing the TNF-α levels in human mononuclear cells treated with lipopolysaccharides up to 58.6%. Chemical hydrolysis studies revealed that compound 3d was stable at pH 7.4 up to 24 h. These results suggest that compound 3d is a novel HbF inducer prototype with the potential to treat SCD symptoms.
The long-term prognosis of Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph + ALL) is still unsatisfactory even after the emergence of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) against chimeric BCR-ABL, and this is associated with the high incidence of genetic alterations of Ikaros family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1), most frequently the hemi-allelic loss of exons 4-7 expressing a dominant-negative isoform Ik6. We found that lenalidomide (LEN), a representative of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), which have been long used for the treatment of multiple myeloma, specifically induced accumulation of Ik6 with the disappearance of functional isoforms within 24 h (i.e., abrupt and complete shut-down of the IKZF1 activity) in Ik6-positive Ph+ALL cells in a neddylation-dependent manner. The functional IKZF3 isoforms expression was also abruptly and markedly downregulated. The LEN treatment specifically suppressed proliferation of Ik6-positive-Ph+ALL cells by inducing cell cycle arrest via downregulation of cyclins D3 and E and CDK2, and of importance, markedly upregulated their apoptosis in synergy with the TKI imatinib (IM). Apoptosis of IM-resistant Ph+ALL cells with T315I mutation of BCR-ABL was also upregulated by LEN in the presence of the newly developed TKI ponatinib. Analyses of flow cytometry, western blot, and oligonucleotide array revealed that apoptosis was caspase-/p53-dependent and associated with upregulation of pro-apoptotic Bax/Bim, enhanced dephosphorylation of BCR-ABL/Akt, and downregulation of oncogenic helicase genes HILLS, CDC6, and MCMs4 and 8. Further, the synergism of LEN with IM was clearly documented as a significant prolongation of survival in the xenograft mice model. Because this synergism was further potentiated in vitro by dexamethasone, a key drug for ALL treatment, the strategy of repositioning IMiDs for the treatment of Ik6-positive Ph+ALL patients certainly shed new light on an outpatient-based treatment option for achieving their long-term durable remission and higher QOL, particularly for those who are not tolerable to intensified therapeutic approaches.
Author information:(1)Department of Emergency,Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center, Guangzhou 510623, Guangdong Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology,Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center, Guangzhou 510623, Guangdong Province, China.(3)Department of Hematology,Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center, Guangzhou 510623, Guangdong Province, China,E-mail: zichemama@126.com.
BACKGROUND: Adiponectin is an important immunomodulatory mediator in inflammatory conditions. While we previously showed that adiponectin receptor 1 (AdipoR1) is expressed in murine regulatory T cells (Tregs), its expression in human Tregs remain unknown. Here, we examined the expression of AdipoR1 in human Tregs and whether its ligand, globular adiponectin (gAd) affects the Treg ability to secrete IL-10 and the role of Type 2 (T2) inflammation in such process.METHODS: Human Tregs from peripheral blood were analyzed by flow cytometry for AdipoR1, Helios and IL-10 expression. CD4+ T cells enriched from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were cultured in the presence or the absence of gAd or the chemical adiponectin receptor agonist, AdipoRon, or in a T2 cytokine milieu. Flow cytometry was then used to assess intracellular IL-10, IL-10 secreting cells, FOXP3 and Helios expression, and phosphorylated p38 MAP kinase (MAPK). IL-10 levels in CD4+ T cell supernatants were quantified by ELISA.RESULTS: We found that a subset of human Tregs expressed AdipoR1. Importantly, more Helios- cells expressed AdipoR1 than Helios+ cells. Likewise, there was a higher frequency of IL-10+ cells within Helios- AdipoR1+ Tregs compared to Helios+ AdipoR1+ Tregs. In contrast, the IL-10 mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) was higher in Helios+ AdipoR1+ Tregs compared to Helios-AdipoR1+ Tregs. When human CD4+ T cells were treated with gAd or AdipoRon, a significant increase in IL-10 secretion, FOXP3 expression, and p38 MAPK phosphorylation was observed in Helios- AdipoR1+ Tregs. Interestingly, gAd under T2 cytokine milieu significantly increased the intracellular levels of IL-10, mainly in Helios+ AdipoR1+ Tregs, and IL-10 levels in supernatants of CD4+ T cells.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our findings suggest that adiponectin/AdipoR1 axis promotes IL-10 release by Tregs, mainly in Helios- Tregs, and the effect was amplified by T2 inflammation in Helios+ Tregs.
CD4 Tregs are involved in the regulation of various autoimmune diseases but believed to be highly heterogeneous. Studies have indicated that Helios controls a distinct subset of functional Tregs. However, the immunological changes in circulating Helios+ and Helios- Tregs are not fully explored in type 1 diabetes (T1D). Here, we elucidated the differences in maturation status and immune regulatory phenotypes of Helios+ and Helios- Tregs and their correlations with monocyte subsets in T1D individuals. As CD25-/low FOXP3+ Tregs also represent a subset of functional Tregs, we defined Tregs as FOXP3+CD127-/low and examined circulating Helios+ and Helios- Treg subpopulations in 68 autoantibody-positive T1D individuals and 68 age-matched healthy controls. We found that expression of both FOXP3 and CTLA4 diminished in Helios- Tregs, while the proportion of CD25-/low Tregs increased in Helios+ Tregs of T1D individuals. Although the frequencies of neither Helios+ nor Helios- Tregs were affected by investigated T1D genetic risk loci, Helios+ Tregs correlated with age at T1D diagnosis negatively and disease duration positively. Moreover, the negative correlation between central and effector memory proportions of Helios+ Tregs in healthy controls was disrupted in T1D individuals. Finally, regulatory non-classical and intermediate monocytes also decreased in T1D individuals, and positive correlations between these regulatory monocytes and Helios+/Helios- Treg subsets in healthy controls disappeared in T1D individuals. In conclusion, we demonstrated the alternations in maturation status and immune phenotypes in Helios+ and Helios- Treg subsets and revealed the missing association between these Treg subsets and monocyte subsets in T1D individuals, which might point out another option for elucidating T1D mechanisms.
Whereas the PROTAC approach to target protein degradation greatly benefits from rational design, the discovery of small-molecule degraders relies mostly on phenotypic screening and retrospective target identification efforts. Here, we describe the design, synthesis, and screening of a large diverse library of thalidomide analogues against a panel of patient-derived leukemia and medulloblastoma cell lines. These efforts led to the discovery of potent and novel GSPT1/2 degraders displaying selectivity over classical IMiD neosubstrates, such as IKZF1/3, and high oral bioavailability in mice. Taken together, this study offers compound 6 (SJ6986) as a valuable chemical probe for studying the role of GSPT1/2 in vitro and in vivo, and it supports the utility of a diverse library of CRBN binders in the pursuit of targeting undruggable oncoproteins.
The zinc-finger transcription factor Helios is critical for maintaining the identity, anergic phenotype and suppressive activity of regulatory T (Treg) cells. While it is an attractive target to enhance the efficacy of currently approved immunotherapies, no existing approaches can directly modulate Helios activity or abundance. Here, we report the structure-guided development of small molecules that recruit the E3 ubiquitin ligase substrate receptor cereblon to Helios, thereby promoting its degradation. Pharmacological Helios degradation destabilized the anergic phenotype and reduced the suppressive activity of Treg cells, establishing a route towards Helios-targeting therapeutics. More generally, this study provides a framework for the development of small-molecule degraders for previously unligandable targets by reprogramming E3 ligase substrate specificity.
CD4 and CD8 coreceptor double negative TCRαβ+ T (DNT) cells are increasingly being recognized for their critical and diverse roles in the immune system. However, their molecular and functional signatures remain poorly understood and controversial. Moreover, the majority of studies are descriptive because of the relative low frequency of cells and non-standardized definition of this lineage. In this study, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 28,835 single immune cells isolated from mixed splenocytes of male C57BL/6 mice using strict ﬂuorescence-activated cell sorting. The data was replicated in a subsequent study. Our analysis revealed five transcriptionally distinct naïve DNT cell clusters, which expressed unique sets of genes and primarily performed T helper, cytotoxic and innate immune functions. Anti-CD3/CD28 activation enhanced their T helper and cytotoxic functions. Moreover, in comparison with CD4+, CD8+ T cells and NK cells, Ikzf2 was highly expressed by both naïve and activated cytotoxic DNT cells. In conclusion, we provide a map of the heterogeneity in naïve and active DNT cells, addresses the controversy about DNT cells, and provides potential transcription signatures of DNT cells. The landscape approach herein will eventually become more feasible through newer high throughput methods and will enable clustering data to be fed into a systems analysis approach. Thus the approach should become the "backdrop" of similar studies in the myriad murine models of autoimmunity, potentially highlighting the importance of DNT cells and other minor lineage of cells in immune homeostasis. The clear characterization of functional DNT subsets into helper DNT, cytotoxic DNT and innate DNT will help to better understand the intrinsic roles of different functional DNT subsets in the development and progression of autoimmune diseases and transplant rejection, and thereby may facilitate diagnosis and therapy.
The GSDMB gene encodes gasdermin B from the family of gasdermin domain-containing proteins involved in various cellular processes related to tumor development and progression, such as differentiation, cell cycle control and apoptosis. Previously, we conducted GWAS on asthma in the Volga-Ural region of Russia and found SNPs associated with asthma with genome-wide significance (rs9303277, rs8067378, rs2290400, rs7216389, rs4795405) and located in the chromosomal region 17q12-q21, which contains IKZF3 (IKAROS family zinc finger 3), ZPBP2 (zona pellucida binding protein-like), GSDMB (gasdermin B), ORMDL3 (orosomucoid 1-like 3) and LRRC3C (leucine-rich repeat-containing 3C) genes. In the present study, we investigated the association of SNPs of the GSDMB gene with the development of various allergic diseases and their combined manifestations in individuals of Russian, Tatar and Bashkir ethnic origin. Our results revealed that polymorphic variants rs7216389, rs2290400 and rs2305480 are associated with the development of allergic diseases as well as with asthma and asthma combined with allergic rhinitis. We did not reveal the association of rs7216389 and rs2290400 with the development of allergic rhinitis and atopic dermatitis in the groups of patients without asthma symptoms. This may reflect a more important role of these SNPs in the development of asthma.
Destabilizing and reprogramming regulatory T (Treg) cells have become a potential strategy to treat tumor. Mounting evidence indicates that the transcription factor Helios is required for the stable differentiation of Treg lineage. Hence, we investigated whether Helios suppression could be a potential treatment option for pancreatic cancer patients. We found that Helios+ cells were predominantly in Foxp3+ Treg cells. By contrast, Foxp3+ Treg cells can be Helios+ or Helios-, but the level of Foxp3 expression was significantly higher in Helios+Foxp3+ Treg cells than in Helios-Foxp3+ Treg cells. Resected pancreatic tumors were highly enriched with both Helios+Foxp3+ Treg cells and Helios-Foxp3+ Treg cells. Also, the proportion of Helios+ cells in total Foxp3+ Treg cells was significantly higher in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients than in PBMCs of healthy controls and further increased in patient tumors. Using shRNA, we knocked down Helios expression without significant downregulation of Foxp3. After Helios knockdown, CD4+CD25+CD127- Treg cells presented significantly lower levels of TGF-β secretion, lower levels of IL-10 secretion, and higher levels of IFN-γ secretion. In addition, Helios shRNA-transfected CD4+CD25+CD127- Treg cells presented lower capacity to inhibit CD4+CD25-CD127+ T conventional cell proliferation than control shRNA-transfected CD4+CD25+CD127- Treg cells. Of note, CD4+CD25+CD127- Treg cells from pancreatic cancer patients demonstrated higher TGF-β expression and higher suppression capacity than the cells from healthy controls. Overall, these results suggest that in pancreatic cancer patients, Helios may serve as a candidate to suppress Treg function, which could be used as a target to treat pancreatic cancer.
BACKGROUND: IKZF1 deletions are associated with adverse outcomes in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). We assessed the prevalence and clinical impact of functional subtypes of IKZF1 deletions in pediatric BCR-ABL1-negative B-ALL.PATIENTS AND METHODS: This retrospective study of IKZF1 deletions was done in cases of pediatric BCR-ABL1-negative B-ALL. The genomic DNA of cases, over a 53-month period, was analyzed using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and multiplex fluorescent polymerase chain reaction. The deletions were divided into functional subgroups: (1) loss-of-function/haploinsufficiency, (2) dominant-negative, and (3) a combination of both types of deletion. The post-induction remission status, event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS) were noted.RESULTS: Out of 320 cases, 47 (14.7%) had IKZF1 deletions. Thirty-six of the 47 (77%) had loss-of-function deletions, 10 (21%) had dominant-negative deletions, and one (2%) had a combination of both types. The post-induction remission rates in cases with loss-of-function deletions (22/30, 73%; P = .060) and dominant-negative deletions (4/5, 80%; P = .517) were lower compared with those without deletions (215/248, 86.7%). These cases also had worse median EFS: 21.1 months (P = .006) for loss-of-function and 15.4 months (P = .156) for dominant-negative deletions, compared with 46.4 months in cases without IKZF1 deletions. They also had worse median OS: 23.4 months (P = .012) for loss-of-function deletions and 15.7 months (P = .233) for dominant-negative deletions, compared with median not reached in cases without IKZF1 deletions.CONCLUSION: The IKZF1 deletions were seen in 14.7% of BCR-ABL1-negative pediatric B-ALL. Most of these deletions (77%) were loss-of-function type. The cases with loss-of-function deletions had lower remission rates and poor EFS and OS compared with cases without IKZF1 deletions. A similar trend of poor outcome was seen in the few cases with dominant-negative IKZF1 deletions.
In addition to somatic mutations, germline genetic predisposition to hematologic malignancies is currently emerging as an area attracting high research interest. In this study, we investigated genetic alterations in Korean acute lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma (ALL) patients using targeted gene panel sequencing. To this end, a gene panel consisting of 81 genes that are known to be associated with 23 predisposition syndromes was investigated. In addition to sequence variants, gene-level copy number variations (CNVs) were investigated as well. We identified 197 somatic sequence variants and 223 somatic CNVs. The IKZF1 alteration was found to have an adverse effect on overall survival (OS) and relapse-free survival (RFS) in childhood ALL. We found recurrent somatic alterations in Korean ALL patients similar to previous studies on both prevalence and prognostic impact. Six patients were found to be carriers of variants in six genes associated with primary immunodeficiency disorder (PID). Of the 81 genes associated with 23 predisposition syndromes, this study found only one predisposition germline mutation (TP53) (1.1%). Altogether, our study demonstrated a low probability of germline mutation predisposition to ALL in Korean ALL patients.
The production of proinflammatory cytokines, particularly granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), by pathogenic CD4+ T cells is central for mediating tissue injury in inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. However, the factors regulating the T cell pathogenic gene expression program remain unclear. Here, we investigated how the Ikaros transcription factor regulates the global gene expression and chromatin accessibility changes in murine T cells during Th17 polarization and after activation via the T cell receptor (TCR) and CD28. We found that, in both conditions, Ikaros represses the expression of genes from the pathogenic signature, particularly Csf2, which encodes GM-CSF. We show that, in TCR/CD28-activated T cells, Ikaros binds a critical enhancer downstream of Csf2 and is required to regulate chromatin accessibility at multiple regions across this locus. Genome-wide Ikaros binding is associated with more compact chromatin, notably at multiple sites containing NFκB or STAT5 target motifs, and STAT5 or NFκB inhibition prevents GM-CSF production in Ikaros-deficient cells. Importantly, Ikaros also limits GM-CSF production in TCR/CD28-activated human T cells. Our data therefore highlight a critical conserved transcriptional mechanism that antagonizes GM-CSF expression in T cells.
The gene fusions BCR-ABL1, TCF3-PBX1, and ETV6-RUNX1 are recurrent in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and are found with low frequency in coexistence with CRLF2 (cytokine receptor-like factor 2) rearrangements and overexpression. There is limited information regarding the CRLF2 abnormalities and dominant-negative IKZF1 isoforms associated with surrogate markers of Jak2, ABL, and Ras signaling pathways. To assess this, we evaluated 24 Mexican children with B-ALL positive for recurrent gene fusions at diagnosis. We found CRLF2 rearrangements and/or overexpression, dominant-negative IKZF1 isoforms, and surrogate phosphorylated markers of signaling pathways coexisting with recurrent gene fusions. All the BCR-ABL1 patients expressed CRLF2 and were positive for pCrkl (ABL); most of them were also positive for pStat5 (Jak2/Stat5) and negative for pErk (Ras). TCF3-PBX1 patients with CRLF2 abnormalities were positive for pStat5, most of them were also positive for pCrkl, and two patients were also positive for pErk. One patient with ETV6-RUNX1 and intracellular CRLF2 protein expressed pCrkl. In some cases, the activated signaling pathways were reverted in vitro by specific inhibitors. We further analyzed a TCF3-PBX1 patient at relapse, identifying a clone with the recurrent gene fusion, P2RY8-CRLF2, rearrangement, and phosphorylation of the three surrogate markers that we studied. These results agree with the previous reports regarding resistance to treatment observed in patients with recurrent gene fusions and coexisting CRLF2 gene abnormalities. A marker phosphorylation signature was identified in BCR-ABL1 and TCF3-PBX1 patients. To obtain useful information for the assessment of treatment in B-ALL patients with recurrent gene fusions, we suggest that they should be evaluated at diagnosis for CRLF2 gene abnormalities and dominant-negative IKZF1 isoforms, in addition to the analyses of activation and inhibition of signaling pathways.
We previously showed that the interaction of programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) on multiple myeloma (MM) cells with PD-1 not only inhibits tumor-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocyte activity via the PD-1 signaling pathway but also induces drug resistance via PD-L1-mediated reverse signals. We here examined the regulation of PD-L1 expression by immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) and antimyeloma effects of the anti-PD-L1 antibody durvalumab in combination with IMiDs. IMiDs induced PD-L1 expression on IMiD-insensitive MM cells and plasma cells from patients newly diagnosed with MM. Gene-expression profiling analysis demonstrated that not only PD-L1, but also a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL), was enhanced by IMiDs. PD-L1 induction by IMiDs was suppressed by using the APRIL inhibitor recombinant B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-Ig, the antibody against BCMA, or an MEK/ERK inhibitor in in vitro and in vivo assays. In addition, its induction was abrogated in cereblon (CRBN)-knockdown MM cells, whereas PD-L1 expression was increased and strongly induced by IMiDs in Ikaros-knockdown cells. These results demonstrated that PD-L1 upregulation by IMiDs on IMiD-insensitive MM cells was induced by (i) the BCMA-APRIL pathway via IMiD-mediated induction of APRIL and (ii) Ikaros degradation mediated by CRBN, which plays a role in inhibiting PD-L1 expression. Furthermore, T-cell inhibition induced by PD-L1-upregulated cells was effectively recovered after combination treatment with durvalumab and IMiDs. PD-L1 upregulation by IMiDs on MM cells might promote aggressive myeloma behaviors and immune escape in the bone marrow microenvironment.
INTRODUCTION: (Ph-like) ALL is a subset of leukemia which has a gene expression profile similar to Ph+disease, but without the presence of BCR-ABL1 translocation.CASE DESCRIPTION: We reported an exceptional case of a child with relapsed Ph-like ALL with IKZF1 gene deletion treated with high-dose ruxolitinib as monotherapy, after multi-agent chemotherapy. He remains in continued MRD-negative leukemia remission with full donor chimerism at 12 months post-HSCT.DISCUSSION: The circumstance that makes our case featured is the usage of ruxolitinib as monotherapy. This report, we believe, is a pioneering report for a frequent disease with a high risk of failure for the outcome.
PURPOSE: IKAROS, encoded by IKZF1, is a member of the IKAROS family of zinc-finger transcription factors playing critical roles in lymphocyte development, differentiation, and tumor suppression. Several studies demonstrated that IKZF1 mutations affecting DNA binding or homo-/hetero-dimerization are mostly associated with common variable immunodeficiency, combined immunodeficiency, or hematologic manifestations. Herein we report a likely de novo, nonsense IKZF1 mutation (p.C182*) in a baby with low T cell receptor excision circles (TREC) identified by newborn screening testing for severe combined immunodeficiency. The patient also presented a profound B cell deficiency at birth.METHODS: Genetic, functional, immunologic, and clinical outcome data associated with this patient and her mutation were evaluated.RESULTS: Mutant p.C182* was detected in the cytoplasm of the patient's primary cells, in contrast to wild type (WT) IKAROS protein, only detected in the nucleus. Functional in vitro assessments revealed that p.C182* was less stable than WT IKAROS protein and failed to bind to its target DNA binding sequence and dimerize with WT IKAROS protein, resulting in impaired pericentromeric targeting and transcriptional repression by means of haploinsufficiency. During follow-up, while a spontaneous recovery of TREC and T cells was observed, B cells improved but not to sustained normal ranges.CONCLUSIONS: Patients with IKAROS-associated diseases can present with SCID-like TREC values through newborn screening testing. IKZF1 mutations should be added to the low TREC differential, although spontaneous recovery has to be considered.
Protein Kinase CK2 (Casein Kinase 2 or CK2) is a constitutively active serine-threonine kinase overactive in human malignancies. Increased expression and activity of CK2 in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is associated with a poor outcome. CK2 promotes AML cell survival by impinging on multiple oncogenic signaling pathways. The selective small-molecule CK2 inhibitor CX-4945 has shown in vitro cytotoxicity in AML. Here, we report that CX-4945 has a strong in vivo therapeutic effect in preclinical models of AML. The analysis of genome-wide DNA-binding and gene expression in CX-4945 treated AML cells shows that one mechanism, by which CK2 inhibition exerts a therapeutic effect in AML, involves the revival of IKAROS tumor suppressor function. CK2 phosphorylates IKAROS and disrupts IKAROS' transcriptional activity by impairing DNA-binding and association with chromatin modifiers. Here, we demonstrate that CK2 inhibition decreases IKAROS phosphorylation and restores IKAROS binding to DNA. Further functional experiments show that IKAROS negatively regulates the transcription of anti-apoptotic genes, including BCL-XL (B cell Lymphoma like-2 like 1, BCL2L1). CX-4945 restitutes the IKAROS-mediated repression of BCL-XL in vivo and sensitizes AML cells to apoptosis. Using CX-4945, alongside the cytotoxic chemotherapeutic drug daunorubicin, augments BCL-XL suppression and AML cell apoptosis. Overall, these results establish the in vivo therapeutic efficacy of CX-4945 in AML preclinical models and determine the role of CK2 and IKAROS in regulating apoptosis in AML. Furthermore, our study provides functional and mechanistic bases for the addition of CK2 inhibitors to AML therapy.
Interferon regulatory factor-4 (IRF4) and IRF8 regulate differentiation, growth and functions of lymphoid and myeloid cells. Targeted deletion of irf8 in T cells (CD4-IRF8KO) has been shown to exacerbate colitis and experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU), a mouse model of human uveitis. We therefore generated mice lacking irf4 in T cells (CD4-IRF4KO) and investigated whether expression of IRF4 by T cells is also required for regulating T cells that suppress autoimmune diseases. Surprisingly, we found that CD4-IRF4KO mice are resistant to EAU. Suppression of EAU derived in part from inhibiting pathogenic responses of Th17 cells while inducing expansion of regulatory lymphocytes that secrete IL-10 and/or IL-35 in the eye and peripheral lymphoid tissues. Furthermore, CD4-IRF4KO T cells exhibit alterations in cell metabolism and are defective in the expression of two Ikaros zinc-finger (IKZF) transcription factors (Ikaros, Aiolos) that are required for lymphocyte differentiation, metabolism and cell-fate decisions. Thus, synergistic effects of IRF4 and IkZFs might induce metabolic reprogramming of differentiating lymphocytes and thereby dynamically regulate relative abundance of T and B lymphocyte subsets that mediate immunopathogenic mechanisms during uveitis. Moreover, the diametrically opposite effects of IRF4 and IRF8 during EAU suggests that intrinsic function of IRF4 in T cells might be activating proinflammatory responses while IRF8 promotes expansion of immune-suppressive mechanisms.
Author information:(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Hebei Yanda Ludaopei Hospital, Langfang 065201, China.(2)Beijing Ludaopei Institute of Hematology, Beijing 100176, China.(3)Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, Beijing Ludaopei Hospital, Beijing 100176, China.
The tumor suppressor IKAROS binds and represses multiple NOTCH target genes. For their induction upon NOTCH signaling, IKAROS is removed and replaced by NOTCH Intracellular Domain (NICD)-associated proteins. However, IKAROS remains associated to other NOTCH activated genes upon signaling and induction. Whether IKAROS could participate to the induction of this second group of NOTCH activated genes is unknown. We analyzed the combined effect of IKAROS abrogation and NOTCH signaling on the expression of NOTCH activated genes in erythroid cells. In IKAROS-deleted cells, we observed that many of these genes were either overexpressed or no longer responsive to NOTCH signaling. IKAROS is then required for the organization of bivalent chromatin and poised transcription of NOTCH activated genes belonging to either of the aforementioned groups. Furthermore, we show that IKAROS-dependent poised organization of the NOTCH target Cdkn1a is also required for its adequate induction upon genotoxic insults. These results highlight the critical role played by IKAROS in establishing bivalent chromatin and transcriptional poised state at target genes for their activation by NOTCH or other stress signals.
AIM: In this study, we evaluated the association of rs6964823 of the Ikaros Family Zinc Finger 1 (IKZF1) gene with the risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) within the population of Jammu and Kashmir (J and K).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The variant rs6964823 of the IKZF1 gene was genotyped using the TaqMan allele discrimination assay for 578 individuals (182 CRC cases and 396 healthy controls). The association of single-nucleotide polymorphisms with the disease was evaluated using logistic regression.RESULTS: It was observed that the variant rs6964823 (IKZF1) showed a significant association with an adjusted allelic odds ratio (OR) of 1.74 (1.34-2.27) at 95% confidence interval (CI), P ≤ 0.05. The dominant model (AA + AG vs. GG) was also applied, where the adjusted OR was 3.096 (2.011-4.76) at 95% CI, P > 0.05.CONCLUSIONS: It was found that the variant rs6964823 of the IKZF1 gene is associated with a higher risk of CRC within the population of J and K.
Introduction: The transcription factor IKAROS and IKAROS family members are critical for the development of lymphocyte and other blood cell lineages. Germline heterozygous IKZF1 mutations have been described in primary immunodeficiency as well as in human hematologic malignancies, affecting both B and T cells. Depending on the allelic variants of IKZF1 mutations (haploinsufficiency and dominant negative) clinical phenotypes vary from bacterial, viral, or fungal infection to autoimmune disease and malignancy.Areas covered: In this review, the authors provide an overview of genotype-phenotype correlation and clinical manifestations in patients with IKZF1 mutations. The importance of accurate diagnosis and monitoring immunological changes is also discussed for the management of these complex and rare diseases. IKZF1/IKAROS, immunodeficiency, and CVID were used as the search terms in PubMed and Google Scholar.Expert opinion: Over the past 5 years both genetic and molecular studies have unveiled surprisingly diverse roles of IKZF1 mutations in primary immunodeficiency. While an increasing number of novel IKZF1 variants are being reported, limited, and complex laboratory testing is necessary to verify the mutation's pathogenicity. Therefore, the combination of understanding mechanistic concepts and clinical and immunological follow-up is necessary to increase our knowledge of IKAROS-associated diseases.
Exploitation of naturally occurring genetic mutations could empower the discovery of novel aspects of established cancer genes. We report here that TRPS1, a gene linked to the tricho-rhino-phalangeal syndrome (TRPS) and recently identified as a potential breast cancer driver, promotes breast carcinogenesis through regulating replication. Epigenomic decomposition of TRPS1 landscape reveals nearly half of H3K9me3-marked heterochromatic origins are occupied by TRPS1, where it encourages the chromatin loading of APC/C, resulting in uncontrolled origin refiring. TRPS1 binds to the genome through its atypical H3K9me3 reading via GATA and IKAROS domains, while TRPS-related mutations affect its chromatin binding, replication boosting, and tumorigenicity. Concordantly, overexpression of wild-type but not TRPS-associated mutants of TRPS1 is sufficient to drive cancer genome amplifications, which experience an extrachromosomal route and dynamically evolve to confer therapeutic resistance. Together, these results uncover a critical function of TRPS1 in driving heterochromatin origin firing and breast cancer genome evolution.
Hotspot mutation of IKZF3 (IKZF3-L162R) has been identified as a putative driver of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), but its function remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate its driving role in CLL through a B cell-restricted conditional knockin mouse model. Mutant Ikzf3 alters DNA binding specificity and target selection, leading to hyperactivation of B cell receptor (BCR) signaling, overexpression of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) target genes, and development of CLL-like disease in elderly mice with a penetrance of ~40%. Human CLL carrying either IKZF3 mutation or high IKZF3 expression was associated with overexpression of BCR/NF-κB pathway members and reduced sensitivity to BCR signaling inhibition by ibrutinib. Our results thus highlight IKZF3 oncogenic function in CLL via transcriptional dysregulation and demonstrate that this pro-survival function can be achieved by either somatic mutation or overexpression of this CLL driver. This emphasizes the need for combinatorial approaches to overcome IKZF3-mediated BCR inhibitor resistance.
A functional adaptive immune system must generate enormously diverse antigen receptor (AgR) repertoires from a limited number of AgR genes, using a common mechanism, V(D)J recombination. The AgR loci are among the largest in the genome, and individual genes must overcome huge spatial and temporal challenges to co-localize with optimum variability. Our understanding of the complex mechanisms involved has increased enormously, due in part to new technologies for high resolution mapping of AgR structure and dynamic movement, underpinning mechanisms, and resulting repertoires. This review will examine these advances using the paradigm of the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain (Igh) locus. We will discuss the key regulatory elements implicated in Igh locus structure. Recent next generation repertoire sequencing methods have shown that local chromatin state at V genes contribute to recombination efficiency. Next on the multidimensional scale, we will describe imaging studies that provided the first picture of the large-scale dynamic looping and contraction the Igh locus undergoes during recombination. We will discuss chromosome conformation capture (3C)-based technologies that have provided higher resolution pictures of Igh locus structure, including the different models that have evolved. We will consider the key transcription factors (PAX5, YY1, E2A, Ikaros), and architectural factors, CTCF and cohesin, that regulate these processes. Lastly, we will discuss a plethora of recent exciting mechanistic findings. These include Rag recombinase scanning for convergent RSS sequences within DNA loops; identification of Igh loop extrusion, and its putative role in Rag scanning; the roles of CTCF, cohesin and cohesin loading factor, WAPL therein; a new phase separation model for Igh locus compartmentalization. We will draw these together and conclude with some horizon-scanning and unresolved questions.
The discovery of effective therapeutic treatments for cancer via cell differentiation instead of antiproliferation remains a great challenge. Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) inactivation, which overcomes the differentiation arrest of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells, may be a promising method for AML treatment. However, there is no available selective CDK2 inhibitor. More importantly, the inhibition of only the enzymatic function of CDK2 would be insufficient to promote notable AML differentiation. To further validate the role and druggability of CDK2 involved in AML differentiation, a suitable chemical tool is needed. Therefore, we developed first-in-class CDK2-targeted proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs), which promoted rapid and potent CDK2 degradation in different cell lines without comparable degradation of other targets, and induced remarkable differentiation of AML cell lines and primary patient cells. These data clearly demonstrated the practicality and importance of PROTACs as alternative tools for verifying CDK2 protein functions.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common complex disease in women with a strong genetic component and downstream consequences for reproductive, metabolic and psychological health. There are currently 19 known PCOS risk loci, primarily identified in women of Han Chinese or European ancestry, and 14 of these risk loci were identified or replicated in a genome-wide association study of PCOS performed in up to 10,074 cases and 103,164 controls of European descent. However, for most of these loci the gene responsible for the association is unknown. We therefore use a Bayesian colocalization approach (Coloc) to highlight genes in PCOS-associated regions that may have a role in mediating the disease risk. We evaluated the posterior probabilities of evidence consistent with shared causal variants between 14 PCOS genetic risk loci and intermediate cellular phenotypes in one protein (N = 3301) and two expression quantitative trait locus datasets (N = 31,684 and N = 80-491). Through these analyses, we identified seven proteins or genes with evidence of a possibly shared causal variant for almost 30% of known PCOS signals, including follicle stimulating hormone and ERBB3, IKZF4, RPS26, SUOX, ZFP36L2, and C8orf49. Several of these potential effector proteins and genes have been implicated in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal signalling pathway and provide an avenue for functional follow-up in order to demonstrate a causal role in PCOS pathophysiology.
BACKGROUND: Many studies have shown that IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) rs4132601 polymorphism is strongly linked to acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in children, but their conclusions have been inconsistent.OBJECTIVE: This meta-analysis is set out to investigate the association between IKZF1 rs4132601 polymorphism and its susceptibility to childhood ALL.DATA AND METHODS: On the basis of inclusion criteria, PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, CNKI, China Wanfang, VIP, and other databases were searched from the time of the establishment of the library database to December 2019 for all case-control studies. Stata 15.0 was applied for meta-analysis to calculate the combined odds ratio (OR) value and 95% confidence interval (CI) of each genotype at IKZF1 rs4132601. Subgroup analysis done by ethnicity, sensitivity analysis, and publication bias assessment was further performed.RESULTS: Nine pieces of literature was included in this meta-analysis, including 2281 children with ALL and 2923 controls. There were significant differences in the allelic model (T vs. G: combined OR=0.75, 95% CI: 0.68-0.82, P<0.05) in both Asian and Caucasian children. In addition to this, there were statistically significant differences in the dominant, homozygous and heterozygous genetic model in both Asian and Caucasian children. The difference was significant in the recessive genetic model (TT vs. TG+GG: combined OR=0.75, 95% CI: 0.67-0.84) in Caucasian children, but not in Asian children (combined OR=0.85, 95% CI: 0.70-1.04, P>0.05).CONCLUSION: There is a strong correlation between IKZF1 rs4132601 polymorphism and ALL in children. Compared with the G allele, T alleles can lower the risk of childhood ALL, and TT, TT+TG and TG genotypes can also reduce the risk of ALL in children.
IKZF1 (IKAROS) is essential for normal lymphopoiesis in both humans and mice. Previous Ikzf1 mouse models have demonstrated the dual role for IKZF1 in both B and T cell development and have indicated differential requirements of each zinc finger. Furthermore, mutations in IKZF1 are known to cause common variable immunodeficiency in patients characterized by a loss of B cells and reduced Ab production. Through N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis, we have discovered a novel Ikzf1 mutant mouse with a missense mutation (L132P) in zinc finger 1 (ZF1) located in the DNA binding domain. Unlike other previously reported murine Ikzf1 mutations, this L132P point mutation (Ikzf1L132P ) conserves overall protein expression and has a B cell-specific phenotype with no effect on T cell development, indicating that ZF1 is not required for T cells. Mice have reduced Ab responses to immunization and show a progressive loss of serum Igs compared with wild-type littermates. IKZF1L132P overexpressed in NIH3T3 or HEK293T cells failed to localize to pericentromeric heterochromatin and bind target DNA sequences. Coexpression of wild-type and mutant IKZF1, however, allows for localization to pericentromeric heterochromatin and binding to DNA indicating a haploinsufficient mechanism of action for IKZF1L132P Furthermore, Ikzf1+/L132P mice have late onset defective Ig production, similar to what is observed in common variable immunodeficiency patients. RNA sequencing revealed a total loss of Hsf1 expression in follicular B cells, suggesting a possible functional link for the humoral immune response defects observed in Ikzf1L132P/L132P mice.
Comment on    Cancer Immunol Res. 2021 Mar;9(3):265-278.
Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) is a transcriptional regulator of immune system development and function. Here, we investigated the role of IRF4 in controlling responsiveness to B-cell receptor (BCR) stimulation in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We modulated IRF4 levels by transfecting CLL cells with an IRF4 vector or by silencing using small-interfering RNAs. Higher IRF4 levels attenuated BCR signaling by reducing AKT and ERK phosphorylation and calcium release. Conversely, IRF4 reduction improved the strength of the intracellular cascade activated by BCR engagement. Our results also indicated that IRF4 negatively regulates the expression of the spleen tyrosine kinase SYK, a crucial protein for propagation of BCR signaling, and the zinc finger DNA-binding protein IKAROS. We modulated IKAROS protein levels both by genetic manipulation and pharmacologically by treating CLL cells with lenalidomide and avadomide (IMIDs). IKAROS promoted BCR signaling by reducing the expression of inositol 5-phosphatase SHIP1. Lastly, IMIDs induced IRF4 expression, while down-regulating IKAROS and interfered with survival advantage mediated by BCR triggering, also in combination with ibrutinib. Overall, our findings elucidate the mechanism by which IRF4 tunes BCR signaling in CLL cells. Low IRF4 levels allow an efficient transmission of BCR signal throughout the accumulation of SYK and IKAROS.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and psoriatic arthritis (PsA) are two distinct autoimmune diseases that manifest with chronic synovial inflammation. Here, we show that CD4+ T cells from patients with RA and PsA have increased expression of the pore-forming calcium channel component ORAI3, thereby increasing the activity of the arachidonic acid-regulated calcium-selective (ARC) channel and making T cells sensitive to arachidonic acid. A similar increase does not occur in T cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Increased ORAI3 transcription in RA and PsA T cells is caused by reduced IKAROS expression, a transcriptional repressor of the ORAI3 promoter. Stimulation of the ARC channel with arachidonic acid induces not only a calcium influx, but also the phosphorylation of components of the T cell receptor signaling cascade. In a human synovium chimeric mouse model, silencing ORAI3 expression in adoptively transferred T cells from patients with RA attenuates tissue inflammation, while adoptive transfer of T cells from healthy individuals with reduced expression of IKAROS induces synovitis. We propose that increased ARC activity due to reduced IKAROS expression makes T cells more responsive and contributes to chronic inflammation in RA and PsA.
Comment in    Cancer Immunol Res. 2021 Mar;9(3):254.
Most intracellular proteins lack hydrophobic pockets suitable for altering their function with drug-like small molecules. Recent studies indicate that some undruggable proteins can be targeted by compounds that can degrade them. For example, thalidomide-like drugs (IMiDs) degrade the critical multiple myeloma transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3 by recruiting them to the cereblon E3 ubiquitin ligase. Current loss of signal ("down") assays for identifying degraders often exhibit poor signal-to-noise ratios, narrow dynamic ranges, and false positives from compounds that nonspecifically suppress transcription or translation. Here, we describe a gain of signal ("up") assay for degraders. In arrayed chemical screens, we identified novel IMiD-like IKZF1 degraders and Spautin-1, which, unlike the IMiDs, degrades IKZF1 in a cereblon-independent manner. In a pooled CRISPR-Cas9-based screen, we found that CDK2 regulates the abundance of the ASCL1 oncogenic transcription factor. This methodology should facilitate the identification of drugs that directly or indirectly degrade undruggable proteins.
The combination of bortezomib (Velcade, PS-341) and lenalidomide (Revlimid) for the treatment of multiple myeloma was proved by USA Food and Drug Administration in 2006. Lenalidomide prevents the proliferation of multiple myeloma cells through binding to cereblon and promoting the ubiquitinational degradation of IKZF1 (Ikaros)/IKZF3 (Aiolos). However, the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib would inhibit the ubiquitinational degradation of IKZF1/IKZF3. How bortezomib could not block the antiproliferative effect of lenalidomide on multiple myeloma cells, which is the paradoxical pharmacological mechanisms in multiple myeloma. In this review, we summarized recent advances in molecular mechanisms underlying the combination of bortezomib and lenalidomide for the treatment multiple myeloma, discussed the paradoxical pharmacological mechanisms of lenalidomide and bortezomib in the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Children of Hispanic/Latino ancestry have increased incidence of high-risk B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (HR B-ALL) with poor prognosis. This leukemia is characterized by a single-copy deletion of the IKZF1 (IKAROS) tumor suppressor and increased activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. This identifies mTOR as an attractive therapeutic target in HR B-ALL. Here, we report that IKAROS represses MTOR transcription and IKAROS' ability to repress MTOR in leukemia is impaired by oncogenic CK2 kinase. Treatment with the CK2 inhibitor, CX-4945, enhances IKAROS activity as a repressor of MTOR, resulting in reduced expression of MTOR in HR B-ALL. Thus, we designed a novel therapeutic approach that implements dual targeting of mTOR: direct inhibition of the mTOR protein (with rapamycin), in combination with IKAROS-mediated transcriptional repression of the MTOR gene (using the CK2 inhibitor, CX-4945). Combination treatment with rapamycin and CX-4945 shows synergistic therapeutic effects in vitro and in patient-derived xenografts from Hispanic/Latino children with HR B-ALL. These data suggest that such therapy has the potential to reduce the health disparity in HR B-ALL among Hispanic/Latino children. The dual targeting of oncogene transcription, combined with inhibition of the corresponding oncoprotein provides a paradigm for a novel precision medicine approach for treating hematological malignancies.
DOI: 10.1038/s41375-021-01133-4PMCID: PMC8324481PMID: 33531655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
BACKGROUND: IKZF1deletion is an unfavorable factor in Philadelphia negative (Ph -) B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. However, the effects of IKZF1 deletions co-existing genetic alterations in Ph (-) ALL have not been extensively studied.METHODS: Bone marrow samples from 368 children with Ph (-) ALL were analyzed by using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification kit for detection of gene deletions and Sanger sequencing for mutational analysis of RAS pathway genes. The outcome was analyzed on 215 patients treated with Taiwan Pediatric Oncology Group-ALL-2002 protocol.RESULTS: IKZF1 deletions were present in 12.8% and IKZF1plus in 6.3% of patients. Mutations of RAS pathway genes were detected in 25.0% of IKZF1-deleted patients. The 10-year event-free survival (EFS) of IKZF1-undeleted patients was significantly better compared with IKZF1-deleted patients (80.0% vs. 47.8%, p = 0.001). Compared with outcome of patients harboring IKZF1 deletion alone, no difference in EFS was observed in patients with IKZF1plus , whereas three patients carried both IKZF1 and ERG deletions had a superior 10-year EFS (100%). The 10-year EFS of patients with any gene mutation of RAS pathway was worse than that of patients with wild-type genes (79.1% vs. 61.6%, p = 0.033). In multivariate analysis, RAS pathway mutations and IKZF1 deletion were independent predictors of inferior EFS. Co-existence of IKZF1 deletion with RAS pathway mutations had a worst 10-year EFS (11.1 ± 10.5%) and 10-year OS (53.3 ± 17.6%).CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed that RAS pathway mutation is an added-value biomarker in pediatric IKZF1-deleted Ph (-) ALL patients.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0242211.].
BACKGROUND: DNA methylated in BCAT1 and IKZF1 are promising circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) biomarkers for colorectal cancer detection. This study tested for variables that might be associated with their detection in patients without colonoscopically evident colorectal cancer so-called false positives.METHODS: A retrospective review of demographic and clinical variables was conducted on patients who were assayed for these biomarkers prior to a colonoscopy for any indication. Potential relationships between detection of these biomarkers and patient variables in patients without colorectal cancer were identified by logistic regression. An age- and sex-matched case-control study was undertaken to identify additional associations.RESULTS: A total of 196 of 1,593 patients undergoing colonoscopy were positive for BCAT1 and/or IKZF1 methylation; 70 (35.7%) had confirmed diagnosis of colorectal cancer. Of the 126 false positives, biomarker levels were significantly lower than in those with colorectal cancer (P < 0.05), with the total cell-free circulating DNA concentration associated with biomarker detection (OR, 1.16; 95% CI, 1.10-1.22), and 83 (65.9%) of the non-colorectal cancer cases positive for methylated BCAT1 only. Age ≥70 years was the only demographic variable associated with biomarker detection (OR, 4.31; 95% CI, 1.50-12.41). No significant associations were seen with medications or comorbidities (P > 0.05). Four cases without colonoscopically evident colorectal cancer but with biomarker levels above the median for patients with colorectal cancer were diagnosed with metastatic adenocarcinoma within 1 year.CONCLUSIONS: False-positive results were most commonly associated with detection of methylated BCAT1 only, as well as age ≥70 years.IMPACT: In the absence of colonoscopically evident colorectal cancer, a high level of circulating methylated DNA warrants investigations for cancers at other sites.
The Ikaros zing-finger family transcription factors (IKZF TFs) are important regulators of lymphocyte development and differentiation and are also highly expressed in B cell malignancies, including Multiple Myeloma (MM), where they are required for cancer cell growth and survival. Moreover, IKZF TFs negatively control the functional properties of many immune cells. Thus, the targeting of these proteins has relevant therapeutic implications in cancer. Indeed, accumulating evidence demonstrated that downregulation of Ikaros and Aiolos, two members of the IKZF family, in malignant plasma cells as well as in adaptative and innate lymphocytes, is key for the anti-myeloma activity of Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs). This review is focused on IKZF TF-related pathways in MM. In particular, we will address how the depletion of IKZF TFs exerts cytotoxic effects on MM cells, by reducing their survival and proliferation, and concomitantly potentiates the antitumor immune response, thus contributing to therapeutic efficacy of IMiDs, a cornerstone in the treatment of this neoplasia.
Regulatory T lymphocytes are important targets for the treatment of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). IL-35 is a newly identified IL-12 cytokine family member that plays an important protective role in a variety of immune system diseases by regulating Treg cell differentiation; however, the role of IL-35 in the pathogenesis of ARDS is still unclear. Here, we found that IL-35 was significantly elevated in adult patients with ARDS compared to controls. Additionally, IL-35 was positively and significantly correlated with IL-6, IL-10 and the oxygenation index (PaO2/FiO2 ratio) but negatively correlated with TNF-α, IL-1β and APACHE II score during ARDS. Moreover, the proportion of Treg/CD4+ cells in the peripheral blood of ARDS patients and the expression of NF-κB in PMBCs were significantly higher than in healthy individuals. Recombinant IL-35 improved survival in a murine model of CLP-induced ARDS. Additionally, IL-35 administration decreased the inflammatory response, as reflected by lower levels of cytokines (including IL-2, TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6) and less lung damage in CLP-induced ARDS. Furthermore, recombinant IL-35 reduced the apoptosis of lung tissue and the expression of NF-κB signalling in a CLP-induced ARDS model and increased the proportion of Treg cells in spleen and peripheral blood. In vitro experiments revealed that IL-35 can affect the phosphorylation of STAT5 during differentiation of naïve CD4+ T lymphocytes into Foxp3+Helios+ Tregs. Our findings suggest that IL-35 attenuates ARDS by promoting the differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into Foxp3+Helios+ Tregs, thereby providing a novel tool for anti-ARDS therapy.
Philadelphia-like (Ph-like) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a subgroup of B-cell precursor ALL (BCP-ALL) with a gene expression profile analogous to Philadelphia-positive ALL and recurrent IKAROS Family Zinc Finger 1 (IKZF1) gene deletion despite lacking BCR-ABL1 (Breakpoint cluster region-ABL protooncogene) translocation. Although recognized to occur at all ages, the proportion of cases among BCP-ALL varies (< 10% in children and up to 30% in adolescents). In all age groups, males are more commonly affected. Generally, Ph-like ALL is associated with adverse clinical features and an increased risk of treatment failure with conventional approaches. Genetic alterations such as aberrant expression, point mutations, or fusion translocations lead to activation of cytokine receptors and signaling kinases, which affect the ABL1 (ABL class fusion) or Janus Kinase (JAK) signaling pathways. Several clinical trials are being conducted to understand whether specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy can improve cure rates. This review summarizes the current literature available about this entity.
The majority of cases of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) contain chromosomal abnormalities that drive overexpression of oncogenic transcription factors. However, whether these initiating oncogenes are required for leukemia maintenance is poorly understood. To address this, we developed a tetracycline-regulated mouse model of T-ALL driven by the oncogenic transcription factor Lmo2. This revealed that whilst thymus-resident pre-Leukemic Stem Cells (pre-LSCs) required continuous Lmo2 expression, the majority of leukemias relapsed despite Lmo2 withdrawal. Relapse was associated with a mature phenotype and frequent mutation or loss of tumor suppressor genes including Ikzf1 (Ikaros), with targeted deletion Ikzf1 being sufficient to transform Lmo2-dependent leukemias to Lmo2-independence. Moreover, we found that the related transcription factor TAL1 was dispensable in several human T-ALL cell lines that contain SIL-TAL1 chromosomal deletions driving its overexpression, indicating that evolution to oncogene independence can also occur in human T-ALL. Together these results indicate an evolution of oncogene addiction in murine and human T-ALL and show that loss of Ikaros is a mechanism that can promote self-renewal of T-ALL lymphoblasts in the absence of an initiating oncogenic transcription factor.
IKAROS, encoded by the IKZF1 gene, is a DNA-binding protein that functions as a tumor suppressor in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Recent studies have identified IKAROS's novel function in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression in T-ALL and uncovered many genes that are likely to be directly regulated by IKAROS. Here, we report the transcriptional regulation of two genes, phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit delta (PIK3CD) and phosphoinositide kinase, FYVE-type zinc finger containing (PIKFYVE), by IKAROS in T-ALL. PIK3CD encodes the protein p110δ subunit of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). The PI3K/AKT pathway is frequently dysregulated in cancers, including T-ALL. IKAROS binds to the promoter regions of PIK3CD and PIKFYVE and reduces their transcription in primary T-ALL. Functional analysis demonstrates that IKAROS functions as a transcriptional repressor of both PIK3CD and PIKFYVE. Protein kinase CK2 (CK2) is a pro-oncogenic kinase that is overexpressed in T-ALL. CK2 phosphorylates IKAROS, impairs IKAROS's DNA-binding ability, and functions as a repressor of PIK3CD and PIKFYVE. CK2 inhibition results in increased IKAROS binding to the promoters of PIK3CD and PIKFYVE and the transcriptional repression of both these genes. Overall, the presented data demonstrate for the first time that in T-ALL, CK2 hyperactivity contributes to PI3K signaling pathway upregulation, at least in part, through impaired IKAROS transcriptional regulation of PIK3CD and PIKFYVE. Targeting CK2 restores IKAROS's regulatory effects on the PI3K oncogenic signaling pathway.
BACKGROUND: IKZF1 is a relevant gene associated with the pathogenesis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and the rs4132601 (T>G) and rs11978267 (A>G) polymorphisms have been associated with the development of this disease in several populations. The aim of this study was to determine the allelic and genotypic frequencies of the rs4132601 and rs11978267 polymorphisms in two indigenous Mexican groups (Cora and Huichol) and Mestizo populations from Nayarit, Mexico, and compare them with the frequencies of both polymorphisms in other populations of the world.METHODS: One hundred, 116, and 100 subjects from the Mestizo, Huichol, and Cora populations, respectively, all of them residents of the state of Nayarit, Mexico, were analyzed. The frequencies of rs4132601 and rs11978267 were determined by allelic discrimination using TaqMan assays.RESULTS: The allelic frequencies of rs4132601 were as follows: Mestizo group T = 0.74, G = 0.26; Cora T = 0.745, G = 0.255; and Huichol T = 0.47, G = 0.53. In the case of the rs11978267 polymorphism, the allelic frequencies were Mestizo A = 0.745, G = 0.255; Cora A = 0.735, G = 0.265; and Huichol A = 0.457, G = 0.543. For each population, both polymorphisms were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.CONCLUSION: The Huichol population from Nayarit presented the highest frequencies of the risk allele reported to date in the whole world for both rs4132601 and rs11978267 polymorphisms.
Haematopoiesis relies on tightly controlled gene expression patterns as development proceeds through a series of progenitors. While the regulation of hematopoietic development has been well studied, the role of noncoding elements in this critical process is a developing field. In particular, the discovery of new regulators of lymphopoiesis could have important implications for our understanding of the adaptive immune system and disease. Here we elucidate how a noncoding element is capable of regulating a broadly expressed transcription factor, Ikaros, in a lymphoid lineage-specific manner, such that it imbues Ikaros with the ability to specify the lymphoid lineage over alternate fates. Deletion of the Daedalus locus, which is proximal to Ikaros, led to a severe reduction in early lymphoid progenitors, exerting control over the earliest fate decisions during lymphoid lineage commitment. Daedalus locus deletion led to alterations in Ikaros isoform expression and a significant reduction in Ikaros protein. The Daedalus locus may function through direct DNA interaction as Hi-C analysis demonstrated an interaction between the two loci. Finally, we identify an Ikaros-regulated erythroid-lymphoid checkpoint that is governed by Daedalus in a lymphoid-lineage-specific manner. Daedalus appears to act as a gatekeeper of Ikaros's broad lineage-specifying functions, selectively stabilizing Ikaros activity in the lymphoid lineage and permitting diversion to the erythroid fate in its absence. These findings represent a key illustration of how a transcription factor with broad lineage expression must work in concert with noncoding elements to orchestrate hematopoietic lineage commitment.
The stability of Ikaros family zinc finger protein 1 (Ikaros), a critical hematopoietic transcription factor, can be regulated by cereblon (CRBN) ubiquitin ligase stimulated by immunomodulatory drugs in multiple myeloma. However, other stabilization mechanisms of Ikaros have yet to be elucidated. In this study, we show that the pharmacologic inhibition or knockdown of Hsp90 downregulates Ikaros in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells. Proteasome inhibitor MG132 but not autophagy inhibitor chloroquine could suppress the Hsp90 inhibitor STA-9090-induced reduction of Ikaros, which is accompanied with the increased ubiquitination of Ikaros. Moreover, Ikaros interacts with E3 ubiquitin-ligase C terminal Hsc70 binding protein (CHIP), which mediates the STA-9090-induced ubiquitination of Ikaros. In addition, the knockdown of Ikaros effectively inhibits the proliferation of leukemia cells, but this phenomenon could be rescued by Ikaros overexpression. Collectively, our findings indicate that the interplay between HSP90 and CHIP regulates the stability of Ikaros in AML cells, which provides a novel strategy for AML treatment through targeting the HSP90/Ikaros/CHIP axis.
Children with Down syndrome have an approximately 10-fold increased risk of developing acute lymphoblastic leukemia and this risk is influenced by inherited genetic variation. Genome-wide association studies have identified IKZF1 as a strong acute lymphoblastic leukemia susceptibility locus in children both with and without Down syndrome, with association signals reported at rs4132601 in non-Down syndrome and rs58923657 in individuals with Down syndrome (r2 = 0.98 for these two loci). Expression quantitative trait locus analysis in non-Down syndrome lymphoblastoid cell lines has demonstrated an association between the rs4132601 risk allele and decreased IKZF1 mRNA levels. In this study, we provide further mechanistic evidence linking the region encompassing IKZF1-associated polymorphisms to pro-leukemogenic effects in both human lymphoblastoid cell lines and murine hematopoietic stem cells. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of the region encompassing the rs17133807 major allele (r2 with rs58923657 = 0.97) resulted in significant reduction of IKZF1 mRNA levels in lymphoblastoid cell lines, with a greater effect in Down syndrome versus non-Down syndrome cells. Since rs17133807 is highly conserved in mammals, we also evaluated the orthologous murine locus at rs263378223, in hematopoietic stem cells from the Dp16(1)Yey mouse model of Down syndrome as well as non-Down syndrome control mice. Homozygous deletion of the region encompassing rs263378223 resulted in significantly reduced Ikzf1 mRNA, confirming that this polymorphism maps to a strong murine Ikzf1 enhancer, and resulted in increased B-lymphoid colony growth and decreased B-lineage differentiation. Our results suggest that both the region encompassing rs17133807 and its conserved orthologous mouse locus have functional effects that may mediate increased leukemia susceptibility in both the Down syndrome and non-Down syndrome genetic backgrounds.
OBJECTIVE: One of the main challenges in liver cell therapy is the replacement of damaged cells and the induction of a tolerogenic microenvironment to promote graft acceptance by the recipient. Adult-derived human liver stem/progenitor cells (ADHLSCs) are currently evaluated at the clinical levels as a promising pro-regenerative and immune-modulatory tool. The expression profile of several immunological molecules may influence the local immune-inflammatory response and, therefore, modulate the tissue healing process. To increase the quality and safety of ADHLSCs before transplantation requires an appropriate analysis and characterization of their pattern expression of immune-inflammatory-associated molecules.METHODS: The expression of 27 molecules belonging to T-cell co-stimulatory pathway, CD47 partners, Ikaros family, CD300 family and TNF family were analyzed using flow cytometry. We compared their expression profiles to PBMCs, hepatocytes and ADHLSCs in both expansion and after hepatogenic differentiation culture conditions.RESULTS: This original immuno-comparative screening revealed that liver cell populations do not constitutively present significant immunological pattern compared to PBMCs. Moreover, our findings highlight that neither the expansion nor the hepatogenic differentiation induces the expression of immune-inflammatory molecules. The detailed expression characteristics (percentage of positive cells and median fluorescence intensity) of each molecule were analyzed and presented.CONCLUSION: By analyzing 27 relevant molecules, our immuno-comparative screening demonstrates that ADHLSCs keep a non-immunogenic profile independent of their expansion or hepatogenic differentiation state. Accordingly, the immunological profile of ADHLSCs seems to support their safe and efficient use in liver tissue therapeutic repair strategy.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are the progenitor cells that give rise to the diverse repertoire of all immune cells. As they differentiate, HSCs yield a series of cell states that undergo gradual commitment to become mature blood cells. Studies of hematopoiesis in murine models have provided critical insights about the lineage relationships among stem cells, progenitors, and mature cells, and these have guided investigations of the molecular basis for these distinct developmental stages. Primary immune deficiencies are caused by inborn errors of immunity that result in immune dysfunction and subsequent susceptibility to severe and recurrent infection(s). Over the last decade there has been a dramatic increase in the number and depth of the molecular, cellular, and clinical characterization of such genetically defined causes of immune dysfunction. Patients harboring inborn errors of immunity thus represent a unique resource to improve our understanding of the multilayered and complex mechanisms underlying lymphocyte development in humans. These breakthrough discoveries not only enable significant advances in the diagnosis of such rare and complex conditions but also provide substantial improvement in the development of personalized treatments. Here, we will discuss the clinical, cellular, and molecular phenotypes, and treatments of selected inborn errors of immunity that impede, either intrinsically or extrinsically, the development of B- or T-cells at different stages.
Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) is a rare and aggressive hematological malignancy with poor outcome. Four children with BPDCN treated at our hospital were enrolled. All the four cases presented with cutaneous lesions. Bone marrow and central nervous system was involved in 50% and 25% of patients, respectively. The whole exome sequencing analysis revealed that KMT2 family genes were the most frequently mutated (4/4, 100%), followed by IKZF2 (2/4, 50%). The point mutation p.D348N was found in three patients and one patient had p.C394Y mutation in the KMT2C gene. Translocation of KMT2A-MLLT3 was found in Case 2. Case 1 had complex karyotype, who was induced by acute myeloid leukemia-like regimens. Although he received allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation twice as well as CD123 chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy, the disease still progressed and he died 37 months after diagnosis. The other three patients were treated with Interfant-99 protocol. They tolerated the therapy well without significant toxicities and now in complete remission so far with a median follow up time of 9 months. More studies are needed to address the question whether the complex karyotype and KMT2 family genes are the causes of the relapse and refractory in BPDCN.
IKAROS, encoded by IKZF1, is a zinc finger transcription factor and a critical regulator of hematopoiesis. Mutations in IKZF1 have been implicated in immune deficiency, autoimmunity, and malignancy in humans. Somatic IKZF1 loss-of-function mutations and deletions have been shown to increase predisposition to the development of B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and associated with poor prognosis. In the last 4 years, germline heterozygous IKZF1 mutations have been reported in primary immune deficiency/inborn errors of immunity. These allelic variants, acting by either haploinsufficiency or dominant negative mechanisms affecting particular functions of IKAROS, are associated with common variable immunodeficiency, combined immunodeficiency, or primarily hematologic phenotypes in affected patients. In this review, we provide an overview of genetic, clinical, and immunological manifestations in patients with IKZF1 mutations, and the molecular and cellular mechanisms that contribute to their disease as a consequence of IKAROS dysfunction.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the functional consequences of the single-nucleotide polymorphism rs4648889 in a putative enhancer upstream of the RUNX3 promoter associated with susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis (AS).METHODS: Using nuclear extracts from Jurkat cells and primary human CD8+ T cells, the effects of rs4648889 on allele-specific transcription factor (TF) binding were investigated by DNA pull-down assay and quantitative mass spectrometry (qMS), with validation by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), Western blotting of the pulled-down eluates, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis. Further functional effects were tested by small interfering RNA knockdown of the gene for interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), followed by reverse transcription-qPCR (RT-qPCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure the levels of IFNγ messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein, respectively.RESULTS: In nuclear extracts from CD8+ T cells, results of qMS showed that relative TF binding to the AS-risk A allele of rs4648889 was increased 3.7-fold (P < 0.03) for Ikaros family zinc-finger protein 3 (IKZF3; Aiolos) and components of the NuRD complex, including chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 4 (CHD4) (3.6-fold increase; P < 0.05) and retinoblastoma binding protein 4 (RBBP4) (4.1-fold increase; P < 0.03). In contrast, IRF5 bound significantly more to the AS-protective G allele compared to the AS-risk A allele (fold change 8.2; P = 0.003). Validation with Western blotting, EMSA, and ChIP-qPCR confirmed the differential allelic binding of IKZF3, CHD4, RBBP4, and IRF5. Silencing of IRF5 in CD8+ T cells increased the levels of IFNγ mRNA as measured by RT-qPCR (P = 0.03) and IFNγ protein as measured by ELISA (P = 0.02).CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the association of rs4648889 with AS reflects allele-specific binding of this enhancer-like region to certain TFs, including IRF5, IKZF3, and members of the NuRD complex. IRF5 may have crucial influences on the functions of CD8+ lymphocytes, a finding that could reveal new therapeutic targets for the management of AS.
BACKGROUND Immune-related genes (IRGs) are closely related to the incidence and progression of tumors, potentially indicating that IRGs play an important role in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC). MATERIAL AND METHODS An RNA sequencing dataset containing 123 samples was collected from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Based on immune-related differentially expressed genes (IRDEGs), a potential molecular mechanism of LSCC was explored through analysis of information in the Gene Ontology (GO) resource and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and protein-protein interactions (PPIs). A regulatory network of transcriptional regulators and IRDEGs was constructed to explore the underlying molecular mechanism of LSCC at the upstream level. Candidates from IRDEGs for signature were screened via univariate Cox analysis and using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) technique. The IRDEG signature of LSCC was constructed by using a multivariate Cox proportional hazards model. RESULTS GO and KEGG analysis showed that IRDEGs may participate in the progression of LSCC through immune-related reactions. PPI analysis demonstrated that, among the IRDEGs in LSCC, the Kininogen 1; C-X-X motif chemokine ligand 10; elastase, neutrophil expressed; and LYZ genes are hub genes in the development of LSCC. At the upstream level, SPI1, SP140, signal transducer and activator of transcription 4, zinc finger E-box binding homeobox, and Ikaros family zinc finger 2 are the hub transcriptional regulators of IRDEGs. The risk score based on the IRDEG signature was able to distinguish prognosis in patients with LSCC and represents an independent prognostic risk factor for LSCC. CONCLUSIONS From the perspective of IRGs, we first constructed an IRDEG signature related to the prognosis of LSCC, which can be used as a novel marker to predict prognosis in patients with LSCC.
The chromatin protein positive coactivator 4 (PC4) has multiple functions, including chromatin compaction. However, its role in immune cells is largely unknown. We show that PC4 orchestrates chromatin structure and gene expression in mature B cells. B-cell-specific PC4-deficient mice show impaired production of antibody upon antigen stimulation. The PC4 complex purified from B cells contains the transcription factors (TFs) IKAROS and IRF4. IKAROS protein is reduced in PC4-deficient mature B cells, resulting in de-repression of their target genes in part by diminished interactions with gene-silencing components. Upon activation, the amount of IRF4 protein is not increased in PC4-deficient B cells, resulting in reduction of plasma cells. Importantly, IRF4 reciprocally induces PC4 expression via a super-enhancer. PC4 knockdown in human B cell lymphoma and myeloma cells reduces IKAROS protein as an anticancer drug, lenalidomide. Our findings establish PC4 as a chromatin regulator of B cells and a possible therapeutic target adjoining IKAROS in B cell malignancies.
Erratum in    Cell Chem Biol. 2021 Apr 15;28(4):583.
C/EBPα is required for formation of granulocyte-monocyte progenitors (GMP) and also participates in B lymphopoiesis. The common lymphoid progenitor (CLP) and preproB populations but not proB cells express Cebpa, and pan-hematopoietic deletion of the +37 kb Cebpa enhancer using Mx1-Cre leads not only to reduced GMP but also to 2-fold reduced marrow preproB and >15-fold reduced proB and preB cells. We now show that IL7Rα-Cre-mediated deletion of the +37 kb Cebpa enhancer, which occurs in 89% of Ly6D+ and 65% of upstream Ly6D- CLP, leads to a 2-fold reduction of both preproB and proB cells, and a 3-fold reduction in preB cells, with no impact on GMP numbers. These data support a direct role for C/EBPα during B lineage development, with reduced enhancer deletion in Ly6D- CLP mediated by IL7Rα-Cre diminishing the effect on B lymphopoiesis compared to that seen with Mx1-Cre. Amongst mRNAs encoding key transcriptional regulators that initiate B lymphoid specification (PU.1, E2A, IKAROS, EBF1, FOXO1, and BACH2), only Ebf1 levels are altered in CLP upon Mx1-Cre-mediated Cebpa enhancer deletion, with Ebf1 reduced ~40-fold in Flt3+Sca-1intc-kitintIL7Rα+ CLP. In addition, Cebpa and Ebf1 RNAs were 4- and 14-fold higher in hCD4+ versus hCD4- CLP from Cebpa-hCD4 transgenic mice. Histone modification ChIP-Seq data for CLP indicate the presence of active, intronic Ebf1 enhancers located 270 and 280 kb upstream of the transcription start sites. We identified a cis element in this region that strongly binds C/EBPα using the electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Mutation of this C/EBPα-binding site in an Ebf1 enhancer-TK-luciferase reporter leads to a 4-fold reduction in C/EBPα-mediated trans-activation. These findings support a model of B lymphopoiesis in which induction of Ebf1 by C/EBPα in a subset of CLP contributes to initiation of B lymphopoiesis.
Ikaros zinc finger transcription factors are important regulators of the gene programs underlying the development of hematopoietic cell lineages. The family consists of five members: Ikaros, Helios, Aiolos, Eos, and Pegasus, which engage in both homo- and heterotypic intrafamilial interactions to exert diverse functional effects. Pioneering studies focused on the role of these factors in early lymphoid development, as their absence resulted in severe defects in lymphocyte populations. More recent work has now begun to define nuanced, stage-specific roles for Ikaros family members in the differentiation and function of mature T, B, and innate lymphoid cell populations including natural killer (NK) cells. The precise transcriptional mechanisms by which these factors function, both independently and collaboratively, is an area of active investigation. However, several key themes appear to be emerging regarding the pathways influenced by Ikaros family members, including the end-to-end regulation of cytokine signaling. Here, we review roles for Ikaros factors in lymphoid cell development, differentiation, and function, including a discussion of the current understanding of the transcriptional mechanisms they employ and considerations for the future study of this important transcription factor family.
The thymus is present in all gnathostome vertebrates and is an essential organ for the adaptive immune system via the generation of functional mature T-cells. Over the life span of mammals, the thymus undergoes morphological and functional alterations, including an age-related involution, which in humans starts in early life. Life history tradeoffs have been suggested as possible reasons for thymus involution. While in teleost fish, only a few studies have investigated alterations of thymus structure and function over different life stages, resulting in a fragmented database. Here, we investigated the thymus growth of zebrafish (Danio rerio) from early life, throughout puberty and reproductive stage, up to 1-year-old. We assessed thymus growth by histological and morphometric analyses and thymocyte numbers. Thymus function was assessed by measuring the transcripts of the thymocyte marker genes, ikaros, tcrα, and tcrδ. Additionally, we analyzed gonad maturity and tail homogenate vitellogenin concentrations to align thymus status with the status of the reproductive system. Our results showed that the zebrafish thymus, in contrast to the human thymus, grew strongly during early life and puberty but started to undergo involution when the fish reached the reproductive age. The involution was characterized by reduced thymus area and thymocyte number, altered histoarchitecture, and decreasing thymocyte marker gene transcript levels. Our findings suggest that age-related changes of the zebrafish thymus do exist and could be partly explained in terms of resource tradeoffs, but also in terms of the ontogenetically late development of a functional adaptive immune system in teleosts.
The search for biomarkers based on the mechanism of drug action has not been thoroughly addressed in the therapeutic approaches to multiple myeloma (MM), mainly because of the difficulty in analyzing proteins obtained from purified plasma cells. Here, we investigated the prognostic impact of the expression of 12 proteins involved in the mechanism of action of bortezomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (VRD), quantified by capillary nanoimmunoassay, in CD138-purified samples from 174 patients with newly diagnosed MM treated according to the PETHEMA/GEM2012 study. A high level of expression of 3 out of 5 proteasome components tested (PSMD1, PSMD4, and PSMD10) negatively influenced survival. The 5 analyzed proteins involved in lenalidomide's mode of action were associated with time to progression (TTP); low levels of cereblon and IRF4 protein and high levels of Ikaros, AGO2, and Aiolos were significantly associated with shorter TTP. Although the glucocorticoid receptor (GCR) level by itself had no significant impact on MM prognosis, a high XPO1 (exportin 1)/GCR ratio was associated with shorter TTP and progression-free survival (PFS). The multivariate Cox model identified high levels of PSMD10 (hazard ratio [HR] TTP, 3.49; P = .036; HR PFS, 5.33; P = .004) and Ikaros (HR TTP, 3.01, P = .014; HR PFS, 2.57; P = .028), and low levels of IRF4 protein expression (HR TTP, 0.33; P = .004; HR PFS, 0.35; P = .004) along with high-risk cytogenetics (HR TTP, 3.13; P < .001; HR PFS, 2.69; P = .002), as independently associated with shorter TTP and PFS. These results highlight the value of assessing proteins related to the mechanism of action of drugs used in MM for predicting treatment outcome.
A high dose of folic acid during pregnancy may increase the risk of asthma, wheezing, and respiratory disease in childhood. Folate acid can modify inflammation and immune susceptibility of offspring with some epigenetic differentiation, including DNA methylation. This study evaluated associations between maternal folate levels during pregnancy and childhood wheezing; furthermore, the study assessed whether maternal folate-modified DNA methylation is related to asthma. Methods Participants in the current study were 6651 mother-child pairs who had complete data on characteristics and who had completed at least one of the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood questionnaires when the child was 1, 2, 4, and 7 years of age. Moreover, a case-control study to assess DNA methylation at 7 years of age was conducted among 136 children who experienced wheezing and a control group of 139 children with no history of allergies. Results The median of maternal serum was 16.76 nmol/L, assayed by chemiluminescent immunoassay. We found significantly increased adjusted odds ratios of childhood wheezing at 2 years age according to maternal folate levels, compared with the lowest folate quartile (odds ratio [95% confidence interval] = highest; 1.27 [1.03, 1.56], and second, 1.27 [1.05, 1.55]); however, no changes were observed at 1, 4, and 7 years of age. In a case-control study, no association of maternal folate levels with DNA methylation was observed. Conclusion Our results suggest that maternal folate did not affect persistent wheezing in school-aged children, or DNA methylation of gasdermin B, orosomucoid-like 3, and Ikaros family zinc finger 3 at 7 years of age.
The presence of IKZF1 gene mutations is associated with poor prognosis of B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). The goal of this retrospective study was to evaluate outcome of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) in this population. Ninety-five patients transplanted in first (n = 75) or second (n = 20) complete remission (CR) from either HLA-matched sibling (n = 32), unrelated (n = 47) or haploidentical (n = 16) donor were included in the analysis. The probabilities of the overall survival (OS) and leukemia-free survival (LFS) at 2 years were 55% and 47%, respectively. Relapse incidence (RI) was 32% while non-relapse mortality (NRM), 21%. The incidence of grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and chronic GVHD was 34% and 30%, respectively. The probability of GVHD and relapse-free survival (GRFS) was 35%. In a multivariate analysis positive minimal residual disease (MRD) status was associated with decreased chance of LFS (HR = 3.15, p = 0.004) and OS (HR = 2.37, p = 0.049) as well as increased risk of relapse (HR = 5.87, p = 0.003). Disease stage (CR2 vs. CR1) affected all, LFS, OS, GRFS, RI, and NRM. Results of allo-HCT for patients with BCP-ALL and IKZF1 mutations are generally improving, however, individuals with detectable MRD have poor prognosis and require additional intervention prior to transplantation.
Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE, 2), a natural compound from propolis, is a well-documented antitumor agent with nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) inhibitory activity. Key transcription factors regulated by NF-κB, namely, interferon regulatory factor-4 (IRF4) and octameric binding protein-2 (OCT2), are implicated in the tumorigenesis of multiple myeloma (MM), an incurable bone marrow cancer. Adverse effects and resistance to current chemotherapeutics pose a great challenge for MM treatment. Hence, the structure-activity relationships of CAPE (2) and 21 of its analogues were evaluated for their antimyeloma potential. Preclinical evaluation revealed that CAPE (2) and the 3-phenylpropyl (4), 2,5-dihydroxycinnamic acid 3-phenylpropyl ester (17), and 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic ether (22) analogues inhibited human myeloma cell growth. Analogue 4 surpassed CAPE (2) and lenalidomide in showing strong apoptotic effects with a remarkable decrease in IRF4 levels. The analogue 17 exhibited the most potent anti-MM activity. The downregulation of specificity protein 1 (Sp1) and the IKZF1-IRF4-MYC axis by CAPE (2) analogues 4 and 17 revealed their novel mechanism of action. The analogues showed no adverse cytotoxic effects on normal human cells and exhibited appropriate in silico pharmacokinetic properties and drug-likeness. These findings suggest the promising application of CAPE (2) analogues to target Ikaros (IKZF1)/IRF4 addiction, the so-called Achilles heel of myeloma, for better treatment outcomes.
Accumulation of CD103+CD8+ resident memory T (TRM) cells in human lung tumors has been associated with a favorable prognosis. However, the contribution of TRM to anti-tumor immunity and to the response to immune checkpoint blockade has not been clearly established. Using quantitative multiplex immunofluorescence on cohorts of non-small cell lung cancer patients treated with anti-PD-(L)1, we show that an increased density of CD103+CD8+ lymphocytes in immunotherapy-naive tumors is associated with greatly improved outcomes. The density of CD103+CD8+ cells increases during immunotherapy in most responder, but not in non-responder, patients. CD103+CD8+ cells co-express CD49a and CD69 and display a molecular profile characterized by the expression of PD-1 and CD39. CD103+CD8+ tumor TRM, but not CD103-CD8+ tumor-infiltrating counterparts, express Aiolos, phosphorylated STAT-3, and IL-17; demonstrate enhanced proliferation and cytotoxicity toward autologous cancer cells; and frequently display oligoclonal expansion of TCR-β clonotypes. These results explain why CD103+CD8+ TRM are associated with better outcomes in anti-PD-(L)1-treated patients.
The immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide are approved drugs for the treatment of multiple myeloma. IMiDs induce cereblon (CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of Ikaros transcription factors Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3), which are essential for multiple myeloma. However, because of a single amino acid substitution of valine to isoleucine in mouse CRBN at position 391, mice are not susceptible to IMiD-induced degradation of neosubstrates. Here, we report that expression of human CRBN or the CrbnI391V mutant enables IMiD-induced degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 in murine MOPC.315.BM.Luc.eGFP and 5T33MM multiple myeloma cells. Accordingly, lenalidomide and pomalidomide decreased cell viability in a dose-dependent fashion in murine multiple myeloma cells expressing CrbnI391V in vitro. The sensitivity of murine cells expressing CrbnI391V to IMiDs highly correlated with their dependence on IKZF1. After transplantation, MOPC.315.BM.Luc.eGFP cells expressing murine CrbnI391V induced multiple myeloma in mice, and treatment with lenalidomide and pomalidomide significantly delayed tumor growth. This straightforward model provides a proof-of-concept for studying the effects of IMiDs in multiple myeloma in mice, which allows for in vivo testing of IMiDs and other CRBN E3 ligase modulators.
Background: Prioritizing tag-SNPs carried on extended risk haplotypes at susceptibility loci for common disease is a challenge. Methods: We utilized trans-ancestral exclusion mapping to reduce risk haplotypes at IKZF1 and IKZF3 identified in multiple ancestries from SLE GWAS and ImmunoChip datasets. We characterized functional annotation data across each risk haplotype from publicly available datasets including ENCODE, RoadMap Consortium, PC Hi-C data from 3D genome browser, NESDR NTR conditional eQTL database, GeneCards Genehancers and TF (transcription factor) binding sites from Haploregv4. Results: We refined the 60 kb associated haplotype upstream of IKZF1 to just 12 tag-SNPs tagging a 47.7 kb core risk haplotype. There was preferential enrichment of DNAse I hypersensitivity and H3K27ac modification across the 3' end of the risk haplotype, with four tag-SNPs sharing allele-specific TF binding sites with promoter variants, which are eQTLs for IKZF1 in whole blood. At IKZF3, we refined a core risk haplotype of 101 kb (27 tag-SNPs) from an initial extended haplotype of 194 kb (282 tag-SNPs), which had widespread DNAse I hypersensitivity, H3K27ac modification and multiple allele-specific TF binding sites. Dimerization of Fox family TFs bound at the 3' and promoter of IKZF3 may stabilize chromatin looping across the locus. Conclusions: We combined trans-ancestral exclusion mapping and epigenetic annotation to identify variants at both IKZF1 and IKZF3 with the highest likelihood of biological relevance. The approach will be of strong interest to other complex trait geneticists seeking to attribute biological relevance to risk alleles on extended risk haplotypes in their disease of interest.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2021 Jan 29;16(1):e0246570.
Protein kinase CK2, formally known as casein kinase II, is ubiquitously expressed and highly conserved serine/threonine or tyrosine kinase enzyme that regulates diverse signaling pathways responsible for cellular processes (i.e., cell proliferation and apoptosis) via interactions with over 500 known substrates. The enzyme's physiological interactions and cellular functions have been widely studied, most notably in the blood and solid malignancies. CK2 has intrinsic role in carcinogenesis as overexpression of CK2 subunits (α, α`, and β) and deregulation of its activity have been linked to various forms of cancers. CK2 also has extrinsic role in cancer stroma or in the tumor microenvironment (TME) including the immune cells. However, very few research studies have focused on extrinsic role of CK2 in regulating immune responses as a therapeutic alternative for cancer. The following review discusses CK2's regulation of key signaling events [Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), Janus kinase/signal transducer and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT), Hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1α), Cyclooygenase-2 (COX-2), Extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK/MAPK), Notch, Protein kinase B/AKT, Ikaros and Wnt] that can influence the development and function of immune cells in cancer. Potential clinical trials using potent CK2 inhibitors will facilitate and improve the treatment of human malignancies.
Ginseng polysaccharide (GPS) is known for its efficacy in cancer therapy; however, its regulatory mechanism in breast cancer (BC) remains unclear. To analyze the effect of GPS on BC cell proliferation, cell proliferation rate calculations, western blotting, plasmid transfections, electrophoretic mobility shift assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were performed. GPS treatment in the culture cell medium inhibited cell proliferation in the BC cell line MDA-MB-231. In addition, the E-cadherin level was enhanced while the vimentin level was suppressed following GPS treatment (both P<0.05). Furthermore, the levels of apoptotic markers, including cleaved-Caspase-3 and p53, and inflammatory response markers, including plasminogen activator inhibitor and TNF-α, were induced by GPS treatment in MDA-MB-231 cells (all P<0.05). These results indicated that GPS supplementation activated the inflammatory response and apoptosis in BC cells. GPS treatment activated the phosphorylation levels of c-Jun N-terminal kinase, Akt and NF-κB. In MDA-MB-231 cells, GPS resulted in the accumulation of the NF-κB components p65, p50 and Ikaros family zing finger protein 1 (IKZF1; all, P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation and electrophoretic mobility shift assays indicated that p65 bound to the IKZF1 promoter. The overexpression of IKZF1 or p65 inhibited MDA-MB-231 cell proliferation (P<0.05), indicating that GPS treatment may inhibit BC cell proliferation by the activation of IKZF1. Taken together, these results suggested that GPS significantly inhibited BC cell proliferation via the control of the biological processes, including the activation of p65-IKZF1 signaling and apoptosis. The data indicated a novel mechanism for further understanding of cancer cell proliferation.
Microdeletions of 7p12.1 encompassing the IKZF1 gene locus are rare, with few cases reported. The common phenotype includes intellectual disability, overgrowth, and facial dysmorphism accompanied, albeit rarely, by congenital anomalies. Haploinsufficiency of IKZF1 predisposes individuals to childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In this study, we comprehensively analyzed the frequency of 7p12.1 deletions among 4581 Polish individuals who underwent chromosomal microarray testing for unexplained developmental delay, intellectual disability, and/or congenital anomalies. Two unrelated individuals (0.04%) with a de novo interstitial 7p12.1 microdeletion encompassing IKZF1 were identified. One developed ALL. Analysis of the incidence and the phenotype of constitutional 7p12.1 microdeletion, which based on the previously annotated patients data in public databases and literature reports, revealed 21 cases including five patients diagnosed with ALL.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) is an important regulator of the cell cycle. Together with CDK4, it phosphorylates and inactivates retinoblastoma (Rb) protein. In tumour cells, CDK6 is frequently upregulated and CDK4/6 kinase inhibitors like palbociclib possess high activity in breast cancer and other malignancies. Besides its crucial catalytic function, kinase-independent roles of CDK6 have been described. Therefore, targeted degradation of CDK6 may be advantageous over kinase inhibition. Proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) structurally based on the cereblon (CRBN) ligand thalidomide have recently been described to degrade the targets CDK4/6. However, CRBN-based PROTACs have several limitations including the remaining activity of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) on Ikaros transcription factors as well as CRBN inactivation as a resistance mechanism in cancer. Here, we systematically explored the chemical space of CDK4/6 PROTACs by addressing different E3 ligases and connecting their respective small-molecule binders via various linkers to palbociclib. The spectrum of CDK6-specific PROTACs was extended to von Hippel Lindau (VHL) and cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein 1 (cIAP1) that are essential for most cancer cells and therefore less likely to be inactivated. Our VHL-based PROTAC series included compounds that were either specific for CDK6 or exhibited dual activity against CDK4 and CDK6. IAP-based PROTACs caused a combined degradation of CDK4/6 and IAPs resulting in synergistic effects on cancer cell growth. Our new degraders showed potent and long-lasting degrading activity in human and mouse cells and inhibited proliferation of several leukemia, myeloma and breast cancer cell lines. In conclusion, we show that VHL- and IAP-based PROTACs are an attractive approach for targeted degradation of CDK4/6 in cancer.
OBJECTIVE: Mutations in IKZF1, which encodes Ikaros family zinc finger 1 (IKAROS) transcription factor, are associated with recurrent infections, cytopenia, autoimmune diseases, and hematologic malignancies. Diverse clinical phenotypes resulting from IKZF1 mutations include pulmonary fungal infections, cytopenia, autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), and malignancies. In this study, we aimed to assess the DNA-binding ability and pericentromeric (PC) localization of a variant of IKZF discovered in a patient.MATERIALS AND METHODS: DNA-binding ability of a pathogenic IKZF variant was tested using electrophoretic mobility shift assay and PC localization of the variant was assessed by immunofluorescent microscopy in NIH3T3 cells.RESULTS: Clinical features of a 3-month-old male infant who underwent hematopoietic stem cell transplantation because of an IKZF1 mutation-associated common variable immunodeficiency, AIHA, and pancytopenia are described. DNA studies revealed a heterozygous missense variant (IKZF1 NM_006060 c.427C>T; p.R143W). Cotransfection studies revealed that mutant R143W has a partial dominant-negative effect over PC targeting and DNA binding.CONCLUSIONS: IKZF1 mutation must be kept in mind if neonatal AIHA, common variable immunodeficiency, and pancytopenia are observed.
IKZF1 belongs to the IKAROS family of transcription factors, and its deletion/mutation frequently affects acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In acute myeloid leukemia, IKZF1 deletion has been demonstrated recurrent, but whether IKZF1 mutation also exists in AML remained largely unknown. Herein, we analyzed the IKZF1 mutation in AML. In our cohort, the frequency of IKZF1 mutation was 2.6% (5/193), and 5 frameshift/nonsense mutations as well as 2 missense mutations were identified in total. Molecularly, IKZF1 mutation was absent in fusion gene-positive AML, but it was demonstrated as the significant concomitant genetic alteration with SF3B1 or bi-allele CEBPA mutation in AML. Clinically, two IKZF1, PTPN11 and SF3B1-mutated AML patients exhibited one aggressive clinical course and showed primary resistant to chemotherapy. Furthermore, we confirmed the recurrent IKZF1 mutation in AML with cBioPortal tool from OHSU, TCGA and TARGET studies. Interestingly, OHSU study also showed that SF3B1 mutation was the significant concomitant genetic alteration with IKZF1 mutation, indicating their strong synergy in leukemogenesis. In conclusion, IKZF1 mutation recurrently affected AML.
The alpheid genus Salmoneus Holthuis, 1955 is reported from Kuwait for the first time, with two species. One species, Salmoneus ikaros sp. nov., is described based on a single specimen from Failaka Island, extracted from the burrow of the callianassid ghost-shrimp Balsscallichirus masoomi (Tirmizi, 1970), together with the host. The new species is characterised by its peculiar eyes, which together with other characters separate it from all previously described species of Salmoneus. The second species, Salmoneus gracilipes Miya, 1972, is reported from Kuwait based on three specimens from two different localities and different habitats. Two specimens were found under coral rocks at a depth of about 7 m off Kubbar Island, whereas the third specimen was extracted from the burrow of the echiuran worm, Listriolobus cf. brevirostris Chen Yeh, 1958, at the type locality of S. ikaros sp. nov. at Failaka Island. Material identified as S. gracilipes from across its wide distribution range appears to be morphologically heterogeneous, possibly containing more than one species, and thus will need further studies.
This study aimed to investigate the combined impact of IKZF1 deletions/high expression of CRLF2 on the prognosis of pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). IKZF1 deletions and CRLF2 expression were assessed in bone marrow samples from 117 children with newly diagnosed BCP-ALL. Sixteen (13.7%) patients were found to harbor IKZF1 deletions, which was associated with inferior outcomes. The event-free survival (EFS) for patients with high -CRLF2 expression was significantly worse than that for low -CRLF2 expression. Moreover, combined modeling of IKZF1+ /CRLF2high identified 7.8% of cases as the highest risk subgroup (7-year EFS 33.3 ± 15.7%). In a multivariate analysis, IKZF1+ /CRLF2high remained a strong independent prognostic factor for EFS (HR: 14.263, p = 0.019). IKZF1 deletions and high -CRLF2 expression were associated with inferior outcomes, and the coexistence of IKZF1+ /CRLF2high had a significant impact on an integrated prognostic model for high-risk BCP-ALL.
Ikaros family zinc finger 1(IKZF1) encodes a lymphoid-restricted zinc finger transcription factor named Ikaros that regulates lymphocyte differentiation and proliferation as well as self-tolerance. Increasing evidence indicates that IKZF1 could contribute to the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Recent research has provided evidence that IKZF1 might correlate with Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), but no clear definition has been made yet. In this study, we focus on the relationship between IKZF1 polymorphisms and SLE susceptibility, cytokine levels, and clinical characteristics in the Chinese Han population.One thousand seventy-six subjects, including 400 SLE patients and 676 healthy controls, were included in this study. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms within IKZF1 containing rs4917014, rs11980379, and rs4132601 were genotyped in all subjects by an improved multiplex ligation detection reaction technique. 143 subjects from SLE patients were randomly selected for testing the levels of serum cytokines. The clinical characteristics of SLE patients were gathered and collated from medical records. The data were analyzed mainly using SPSS20.0 (SPSS lnc., Chicago, IL).Significant relationships were observed between rs4132601 and SLE susceptibility, CD40 ligand, and malar rash (P < .001, P = .04, and P = .01, respectively). In addition, significant relationships were observed between rs4917014 and susceptibility, granzyme B level, and hematological disorder in SLE (P = .005, P = .03 and P = .005, respectively).The results further support that IKZF1 may have an important role in the development and pathogenesis of SLE. Allele G of rs4132601 and rs4917014 is related to a decreased risk of SLE occurrence and associated with clinical features in SLE patients, including CD40 ligand level, granzyme B level, malar rash, and hematological disorder, which play important roles in disease progression.
The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) episome is known to interact with the three-dimensional structure of the human genome in infected cells. However, the exact locations of these interactions and their potential functional consequences remain unclear. Recently, high-resolution chromatin conformation capture (Hi-C) assays in lymphoblastoid cells have become available, enabling us to precisely map the contacts between the EBV episome(s) and the human host genome. Using available Hi-C data at a 10-kb resolution, we have identified 15,000 reproducible contacts between EBV episome(s) and the human genome. These contacts are highly enriched in chromatin regions denoted by typical or super enhancers and active markers, including histone H3K27ac and H3K4me1. Additionally, these contacts are highly enriched at loci bound by host transcription factors that regulate B cell growth (e.g., IKZF1 and RUNX3), factors that enhance cell proliferation (e.g., HDGF), or factors that promote viral replication (e.g., NBS1 and NFIC). EBV contacts show nearly 2-fold enrichment in host regions bound by EBV nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA2) and EBNA3 transcription factors. Circular chromosome conformation capture followed by sequencing (4C-seq) using the EBV origin of plasmid replication (oriP) as a "bait" in lymphoblastoid cells further confirmed contacts with active chromatin regions. Collectively, our analysis supports interactions between EBV episome(s) and active regions of the human genome in lymphoblastoid cells.IMPORTANCE EBV is associated with ∼200,000 cancers each year. In vitro, EBV can transform primary human B lymphocytes into immortalized cell lines. EBV-encoded proteins, along with noncoding RNAs and microRNAs, hijack cellular proteins and pathways to control cell growth. EBV nuclear proteins usurp normal transcriptional programs to activate the expression of key oncogenes, including MYC, to provide a proliferation signal. EBV nuclear antigens also repress CDKN2A to suppress senescence. EBV membrane protein activates NF-κB to provide survival signals. EBV genomes are maintained by EBNA1, which tethers EBV episomes to the host chromosomes during mitosis. However, little is known about where EBV episomes are located in interphase cells. In interphase cells, EBV promoters drive the expression of latency genes, while oriP functions as an enhancer for these promoters. In this study, integrative analyses of published lymphoblastoid cell line (LCL) Hi-C data and our 4C-seq experiments position EBV episomes to host genomes with active epigenetic marks. These contact points were significantly enriched for super enhancers. The close proximity of EBV episomes and the super enhancers that are enriched for transcription cofactors or mediators in lymphoblasts may benefit EBV gene expression, suggesting a novel mechanism of transcriptional activation.
The immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide is used for the treatment of certain hematologic malignancies, including myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Lenalidomide interacts with cereblon (CRBN), a component of the CRL4CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, leading to ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of substrates, such as transcription factor Ikaros (Ikaros family zinc finger 1, IKZF1). With a genome loss of function screen, we recently identified two novel pathways mediated by lenalidomide in MDS. In this review, we summarized the major findings of these two pathways and their clinical implications. Depletion of G protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68) or an endogenous calcineurin (CaN) inhibitor, regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1), reversed the inhibitory effect of lenalidomide on MDSL cells, an MDS cell line. Intriguingly, both GPR68 and RCAN1 expression levels were upregulated in MDSL cells after treatment with lenalidomide that was dependent on diminishment of IKZF1, indicating that IKZF1 functioned as a transcription repressor for GPR68 and RCAN1. Mechanistic studies revealed that upregulation or activation of GPR68 induced a Ca2+/calpain pro-apoptotic pathway, while upregulation of RCAN1 inhibited the CaN pro-survival pathway in MDSL cells. Notably, the pharmacological CaN inhibitor, cyclosporine, enhanced the sensitivity to lenalidomide in MDS as well as acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Surprisingly, pretreatment with lenalidomide reversed the immunosuppressive effects of cyclosporine on T lymphocytes. Our studies suggest that lenalidomide mediates degradation of IKZF1, leading to derepression of GPR68 and RCAN1 that activates the Ca2+/calpain pro- apoptotic pathway and inhibits the CaN pro-survival pathway, respectively. Our studies implicate that cyclosporine extends the therapeutic potential of lenalidomide to myeloid malignancies without compromising immune function.
The discovery that the immunomodulatory imide drugs (IMiDs) possess antitumor properties revolutionized the treatment of specific types of hematological cancers. Since then, much progress has been made in understanding why the IMiDs are so efficient in targeting the malignant clones in difficult-to-treat diseases. Despite their efficacy, IMiD resistance arises eventually. Herein we summarize the mechanisms of sensitivity and resistance to lenalidomide in del(5q) myelodysplastic syndrome and multiple myeloma, two diseases in which these drugs are at the therapeutic frontline. Understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying IMiD efficacy and resistance may allow development of specific strategies to eliminate the malignant clone in otherwise incurable diseases.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell immunotherapy still faces many challenges in the treatment of solid tumors, one of which is T-cell dysfunction or exhaustion. Immunomodulator lenalidomide may improve CAR T-cell function. In this study, the effects of lenalidomide on CAR T-cell functions (cytotoxicity, cytokine secretion, and cell proliferation) were investigated. Two different CAR T cells (CD133-specific CAR and HER2-specific CAR) were prepared, and the corresponding target cells including human glioma cell line U251 CD133-OE that overexpress CD133 and human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-453 were used for functional assay. We found that lenalidomide promoted the killing of U251 CD133-OE by CD133-CAR T cells, the cytokine secretion, and the proliferation of CD133-CAR T cells. Lenalidomide also enhanced the cytotoxicity against MDA-MB-453 and the cytokine secretion of HER2-CAR T cells but did not affect their proliferation significantly. Furthermore, lenalidomide may regulate the function of CAR T cells by inducing the degradation of transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos.
BACKGROUND: Most recurrences of early-stage colorectal cancer detected with current surveillance measures are widespread and incurable. Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) may facilitate earlier diagnosis of recurrent colorectal cancer and improve cancer-related outcomes.METHODS: Plasma from patients undergoing standard surveillance after definitive treatment for stage II/III colorectal cancer was assayed with COLVERA and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) at a single time point. Results were correlated with radiographic imaging. Assay performance, including sensitivity and specificity for recurrence, were compared. Impact of potentially confounding variables was also explored.RESULTS: 322 patients were included in the final analysis, and 27 recurrences were documented over a median follow-up period of 15 months. Sensitivity for recurrence was 63% [confidence interval (CI), 42.4-80.6] and 48% (CI, 28.7-68.1) for COLVERA and CEA (≥5 ng/mL), respectively (P = 0.046), while specificity was 91.5% (CI, 87.7-94.4) and 96.3% (CI, 93.4-98.1), respectively (P = 0.016). Smoking and age were independent predictors of CEA but not COLVERA positivity.CONCLUSIONS: COLVERA was more sensitive but less specific than CEA in detecting recurrent colorectal cancer. Short median follow-up may have been responsible for apparent false positives in COLVERA. Studies with serial sampling and longer follow-up are needed to assess whether earlier detection of colorectal cancer recurrence translates into clinical benefit.IMPACT: This prospective study showed that COLVERA (a two-gene ctDNA assay) was more sensitive for detection of recurrence in a cohort of patients undergoing surveillance after definitive therapy for stages II and III colorectal cancer.
Enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2), the catalytic subunit of polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), regulates genes involved in cell lineage and differentiation through methylating lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3). Recurrent gain-of-function mutations of EZH2 have been identified in various cancer types, in particular, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), through large-scale genome-wide association studies and EZH2 depletion or pharmacological inhibition has been shown to exert an antiproliferative effect on cancer cells, both in vitro and in vivo. In the current study, a combination of pomalidomide and GSK126 synergistically inhibited the growth of EZH2 gain-of-function mutant Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells. Furthermore, this synergistic effect appeared to be dependent on cereblon (CRBN), a cellular receptor of pomalidomide, but not degradation of IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) or IKAROS family zinc finger 3 (IKZF3). RNA sequencing analyses revealed that co-treatment with GSK126 and pomalidomide induced specific gene sets involved in B-cell differentiation and apoptosis. Synergistic growth inhibition and B-cell differentiation were further validated in xenograft mouse models. Our collective results provide a molecular basis for the mechanisms underlying the combined therapeutic effects of PRC2 inhibitors and pomalidomide on EZH2-mutated DLBCL.
IKAROS is a transcription factor forming homo- and heterodimers and regulating lymphocyte development and function. Germline mutations affecting the IKAROS N-terminal DNA binding domain, acting in a haploinsufficient or dominant-negative manner, cause immunodeficiency. Herein, we describe 4 germline heterozygous IKAROS variants affecting its C-terminal dimerization domain, via haploinsufficiency, in 4 unrelated families. Index patients presented with hematologic disease consisting of cytopenias (thrombocytopenia, anemia, neutropenia)/Evans syndrome and malignancies (T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, Burkitt lymphoma). These dimerization defective mutants disrupt homo- and heterodimerization in a complete or partial manner, but they do not affect the wild-type allele function. Moreover, they alter key mechanisms of IKAROS gene regulation, including sumoylation, protein stability, and the recruitment of the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase complex; none affected in N-terminal DNA binding defects. These C-terminal dimerization mutations are largely associated with hematologic disorders, display dimerization haploinsufficiency and incomplete clinical penetrance, and differ from previously reported allelic variants in their mechanism of action. Dimerization mutants contribute to the growing spectrum of IKAROS-associated diseases displaying a genotype-phenotype correlation.
Previous studies showed that the activation of Wnt signaling reduced high glucose (HG)-mediated fibroblast damage, but the molecular basis for this phenomenon remains elusive. This study aimed to analyze the level of phosphorylation of GSK3β Ser9 (pGSK3β Ser9) during HG damage. Moreover, the phosphomimic form of pGSK3β Ser9 was expressed to analyze its effect on cell migration via the phosphorylation of Ikaros. The results revealed that HG treatment significantly reduced the pGSK3β Ser9 level. The overexpression of GSK3β Ser9D and GSK3β Ser9A accelerated and inhibited fibroblast cell migration, respectively. P110α knockdown or treatment with SP600125, an inhibitor of JNK, also reduced the pGSK3β Ser9 level under HG condition. Treatment with SP600125 inhibited the migration of fibroblasts, but not in GSK3β Ser9D-expressing cells. Further, yeast two-hybrid screening and biochemical analysis identified that GSK3β interacted and phosphorylated Ikaros at Ser391. Besides, GSK3β Ser9D, but not GSK3β Ser9A, activated Ikaros Ser391 phosphorylation. Expressing Ikaros or β-catenin significantly promoted cell migration, suggesting that GSK3β modulated cell migration partially via the activation of Ikaros besides β-catenin signaling under HG condition. The expression of the phosphomimic form of Ikaros Ser391D resulted in a significant increase in the extent of cell migration compared with Ikaros under HG condition. Moreover, the Ikaros Ser391D DNA-binding affinity toward the ANXA4 promoter increased, and ANXA4 suppression promoted cell migration. In conclusion, the results of this study provided a new regulatory mechanism by which GSK3β negatively regulated human skin fibroblast cell migration.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to assess the expression of the Ikaros transcription factor (IKZF1) in lung adenocarcinoma and investigate whether expression levels of Ikaros are correlated with lung adenocarcinoma progression.METHODS: We conducted a retrospective study of 325 cases of resected stage I pulmonary adenocarcinoma, in which histological subtyping was performed according to the 2015 World Health Organization classification. We performed immunohistochemical examinations to assess expression of Ikaros in pulmonary adenocarcinomas and evaluated the correlation between Ikaros expression and cancer progression.RESULTS: Immunohistochemical staining was heterogeneous, with the majority of well-differentiated and moderately differentiated lung adenocarcinomas being weakly positive and the majority of the poorly differentiated lung adenocarcinomas exhibiting strong positive staining. Higher expression of Ikaros was associated with tumor recurrence or metastasis.CONCLUSIONS: Ikaros is heterogeneously expressed in different subtypes of lung adenocarcinoma; higher expression of Ikaros was found to be associated with cancer progression.
Blast-phase chronic myeloid leukemia (BP-CML) is associated with additional chromosomal aberrations, RUNX1 mutations being one of the most common. Tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy has only limited efficacy in BP-CML, and characterization of more defined molecular subtypes is warranted in order to design better treatment modalities for this poor prognosis patient group. Using whole-exome and RNA sequencing we demonstrate that PHF6 and BCORL1 mutations, IKZF1 deletions, and AID/RAG-mediated rearrangements are enriched in RUNX1mut BP-CML leading to typical mutational signature. On transcriptional level interferon and TNF signaling were deregulated in primary RUNX1mut CML cells and stem cell and B-lymphoid factors upregulated giving a rise to distinct phenotype. This was accompanied with the sensitivity of RUNX1mut blasts to CD19-CAR T cells in ex vivo assays. High-throughput drug sensitivity and resistance testing revealed leukemia cells from RUNX1mut patients to be highly responsive for mTOR-, BCL2-, and VEGFR inhibitors and glucocorticoids. These findings were further investigated and confirmed in CRISPR/Cas9-edited homozygous RUNX1-/- and heterozygous RUNX1-/mut BCR-ABL positive cell lines. Overall, our study provides insights into the pathogenic role of RUNX1 mutations and highlights personalized targeted therapy and CAR T-cell immunotherapy as potentially promising strategies for treating RUNX1mut BP-CML patients.
(IKZF1) rs4132601 and rs11978267 are common gene polymorphisms and have been associated with the risk of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. However, these associations are less evident in races and/or ethnicities other than European and Hispanic. Therefore, we investigated the association between these single-nucleotide polymorphisms and acute lymphoblastic leukemia susceptibility and disease outcome. Real-time polymerase chain reaction typing was performed for IKZF1 rs4132601 and rs11978267 for 128 pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (pALL), 45 adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (aALL), and 436 healthy controls. The G allele-containing and G-containing genotypes (GG+GT) of rs4132601 were significantly higher in pALL (P=0.003, odds ratio [OR]=1.65, 0.009, OR=1.42, respectively) and aALL (P=0.016, OR=1.81 and 0.011, OR=1.61, respectively). However, the GG haplotype was associated with the risk of pALL (P=0.044), the GA haplotype was associated with the risk of aALL (P=0.007). In aALL, the GG genotype of rs4132601 was associated with absence of remission and poor overall survival (P=0.003 and 0.041, respectively). The IKZF1 rs4132601 single-nucleotide polymorphism can be considered a susceptibility risk factor for the development of pALL and aALL in the studied cohort of Egyptian patients. The GG genotype of IKZF1 rs4132601 may be a risk factor for poor outcome in aALL patients.
Author information:(1)Division of Stem Cell Regulation, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical University.
An algorithm Probabilistic Identification of Causal SNPs, identified 434 causal variants for multiple sclerosis (MS) including IL2RA rs2104286, IFI30 rs11554159 and IKZF3 rs12946510. Analysis of individual and combined effects of these variants in the Serbian population identified that Il2RA rs2104286 G allele carriers had a lower risk for developing MS (gender adjusted OR = 0.63, p = .003). With regard to the IFI30 rs11554159 recessive genetic model, among HLA-DRB1*15:01 positive patients, the AA homozygote had a significantly higher MSSS compared to the G allele carriers (p = .003). This study confirms role of IL2RA rs2104286 in MS and suggest the role of IFI30 rs11554159 in disease severity, which needs validation.
Aim: As tumor causes atrophy in the thymus to target effector-T cells, this study is aimed to decipher the efficacy of neem leaf glycoprotein (NLGP) in tumor- and age-associated thymic atrophy. Materials & methods: Different thymus parameters were studied using flow cytometry, reverse transcriptase PCR and immunocyto-/histochemistry in murine melanoma and sarcoma models. Results: Longitudinal NLGP therapy in tumor hosts show tumor-reduction along with significant normalization of thymic alterations. NLGP downregulates intrathymic IL-10, which eventually promotes Notch1 to rescue blockade in CD25+CD44+c-Kit+DN2 to CD25+CD44-c-Kit-DN3 transition in T cell maturation and suppress Ikaros/IRF8/Pu.1 to prevent DN2-T to DC differentiation in tumor hosts. The CD5intTCRαβhigh DP3 population was also increased to endorse CD8+ T cell generation. Conclusion: NLGP rescues tumor-induced altered thymic events to generate more effector T cells to restrain tumor.
The zinc finger protein 36-like 2, ZFP36L2, is a member of a small family of RNA-binding proteins composed by ZFP36 (also known as tristetraprolin, TTP), ZFP36L1 and ZFP36L2 in humans, with corresponding murine orthologs. These proteins bind to adenine uridine-rich element (ARE) in the 3'untranslated region of target messenger RNA and stimulate target degradation. ZFP36 functions as an anti-inflammatory modulator in murine models of inflammatory diseases by down-regulating the production of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α. However, how ZFP36L1 and ZFP36L2 alter the function of CD4+ T cells is not completely understood. We addressed this issue by searching for the target genes of ZFP36L2 by comprehensive transcriptome analysis. We observed that ZFP36L2 is highly expressed in naïve CD4+ T cells; however, when CD4+ T cells are stimulated through their T cell receptors, ZFP36L2 expression is rapidly reduced in both humans and mice. Among CD4+ T cell populations, the expression levels of ZFP36L2 in regulatory T cells (Tregs) were significantly lower than those in naïve or effector CD4+ T cells. RNA-sequence analysis revealed that the forced expression of ZFP36L2 decreased Ikzf2 (encoding Helios) expression in Foxp3+ Tregs and inhibited the ability of induced Tregs (iTregs). ZFP36L2 directly bound to and destabilized the 3'untranslated region of Ikzf2 mRNA, which contains AU-rich elements. These results indicate that ZFP36L2 reduces the expression of Ikzf2 and suppresses iTreg function, raising the interesting possibility that the inhibition of ZFP36L2 in iTregs could be a therapeutic strategy for autoimmune diseases.
Ikaros zinc finger 1 (IKZF1 or Ikaros) is a hematopoietic zinc finger DNA-binding transcription factor that acts as a critical regulator of lymphocyte and myeloid differentiation. Loss-of-function germline heterozygous mutations in IKZF1 affecting DNA-binding were described as causative of 2 distinct primary immunodeficiency (PID)/inborn error of immunity diseases. Mutations acting by haploinsufficiency present with a common variable immune deficiency-like phenotype mainly characterized by increased susceptibility to infections. Mutations acting in a dominant negative fashion present with a combined immunodeficiency phenotype with high prevalence of Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. Pathophysiology and manifestations of IKAROS-associated diseases in patients with PID are reviewed here.
This study aimed to address the clinical impact of recombination-activating gene (RAG1) expression and tumor suppressor IKZF1 gene deletions in Philadelphia negative B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) patients. Fifty newly diagnosed pediatric Philadelphia negative B-ALL patients were included in this study. Using Bone Marrow samples, RAG1 expression was assessed by real time PCR and IKZF1 deletions were determined by multiplex real-time quantitative PCR. The expression of RAG1 was significantly higher in B-ALL patients as compared to the controls (p < .001). The B-ALL patients with RAG1 high expression (≥median) had lower response to induction of remission, shorter DFS, shorter overall survival, higher blast cells, and white cell counts in the peripheral blood as compared to those with low RAG1 expression levels (p < .01 for all). Likewise, there was significant association between IKZF1 deletion and high RAG1 expression. Based on our findings RAG1 high expression and IKZF1 deletions were associated with adverse prognosis in Philadelphia negative B-ALL. RAG1 could be used as therapeutic target in the treatment of B-ALL.
Small molecules targeting the cereblon-containing E3 ubiquitin ligase including thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide modulate turnover of downstream client proteins and demonstrate pre-clinical and clinical anti-myeloma activity. Different drugs that engage with cereblon hold the potential of unique phenotypic effects, and we therefore studied the novel protein homeostatic modulator (PHM™) BTX306 with a unique thiophene-fused scaffold bearing a substituted phenylurea and glutarimide. This agent much more potently reduced human-derived myeloma cell line viability, with median inhibitory concentrations in the single nanomolar range versus micromolar values for lenalidomide or pomalidomide, and more potently activated caspases 3/8/9. While lenalidomide and pomalidomide induced greater degradation of Ikaros and Aiolos in myeloma cells, BTX306 more potently reduced levels of GSPT1, eRF1, CK1α, MCL-1, and c-MYC. Suppression of cereblon or overexpression of Aiolos or Ikaros induced relative resistance to BTX306, and this agent did not impact viability of murine hematopoietic cells in an in vivo model, demonstrating its specificity for human cereblon. Interestingly, BTX306 did show some reduced activity in lenalidomide-resistant cell line models but nonetheless retained its nanomolar potency in vitro, overcame bortezomib resistance, and was equipotent against otherwise isogenic cell line models with either wild-type or knockout TP53. Finally, BTX306 demonstrated strong activity against primary CD138-positive plasma cells, showed enhanced anti-proliferative activity in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone, and was effective in an in vivo systemic model of multiple myeloma. Taken together, the data support further translational studies of BTX306 and its derivatives to the clinic for patients with relapsed and/or refractory myeloma. KEY MESSAGES: BTX306 has a unique thiophene-fused scaffold bearing phenylurea and glutarimide. BTX306 is more potent against myeloma cells than lenalidomide or pomalidomide. BTX306 overcomes myeloma cell resistance to lenalidomide or bortezomib in vitro. BTX306 is active against primary myeloma cells, and shows efficacy in vivo.
Lenalidomide is an immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) used to treat multiple myeloma (MM) patients. Lenalidomide destroys MM cells by inducing ubiquitination and the consequent degradation of Ikaros family zinc finger proteins 1 and 3 (IKZF1 and IKZF3). High expression of IKZF1 and IKZF3 in MM results in less sensitivity to lenalidomide treatment and possible cytotoxic effect. Therefore, detecting the expression of IKZF1 and IKZF3 proteins is of utmost importance in the treatment of MM. Here, we report the fabrication of a novel label-free electrochemical immunosensor for the rapid detection and quantification of IKZF1 and IKZF3 using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). Gold electrodes were used to fabricate the immunosensors by immobilizing IKZF1 and IKZF3 specific antibodies using cysteamine and PDITC crosslinkers. The immunosensors were able to detect IKZF1 and IKZF3 protein levels with respective low detection limits of 0.68 and 0.97 pg/ml (11.8 and 16.7 fM). Furthermore, the immunosensors' successful application in human serum and their high selectivity and sensitivity enables their possible application in other biofluids as simple point-of-care devices for monitoring multiple myeloma patients treated with lenalidomide, to prevent the drug's cytotoxicity and minimize its side effects.
Tumor progression in the host leads to severe impairment of intrathymic T-cell differentiation/maturation, leading to the paralysis of cellular anti-tumor immunity. Such suppression manifests the erosion of CD4+CD8+ double-positive (DP) immature thymocytes and a gradual increase in CD4-CD8- double negative (DN) early T-cell progenitors. The impact of such changes on the T-cell progenitor pool in the context of cancer remains poorly investigated. Here, we show that tumor progression blocks the transition of Lin-Thy1.2+CD25+CD44+c-KitlowDN2b to Lin-Thy1.2+CD25+CD44-c-Kit-DN3 in T-cell maturation, instead leading to DN2-T-cell differentiation into dendritic cells (DC). We observed that thymic IL-10 expression is upregulated, particularly at cortico-medullary junctions (CMJ), under conditions of progressive disease, resulting in the termination of IL-10Rhigh DN2-T-cell maturation due to dysregulated expression of Notch1 and its target, CCR7 (thus restricting these cells to the CMJ). Intrathymic differentiation of T-cell precursors in IL-10-/- mice and in vitro fetal thymic organ cultures revealed that IL-10 promotes the interaction between thymic stromal cells and Notch1low DN2-T cells, thus facilitating these DN2-T cells to differentiate toward CD45+CD11c+MHC-II+ thymic DCs as a consequence of activating the Ikaros/IRF8 signaling axis. We conclude that a novel function of thymically-expressed IL-10 in the tumor-bearing host diverts T-cell differentiation toward a DC pathway, thus limiting the protective adaptive immune repertoire.
Multiple Myeloma (MM) is a hematological malignancy of plasma cells. Although advanced therapies have elevated MM survival rate, MM eventually relapses. Relapsed/refractory MM (R/R MM) cells gain resistance to previously used drugs, which reduces treatment options. In this study, we propose a newly synthesized HDAC6-selective inhibitor, A452, as a strategy to overcome resistance to immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), the principal MM therapeutic drugs. Here, we identified that A452 alone reduces the viability and growth of IMiDs-resistant cells as well as synergistically reduces viability when combined with IMiDs. We confirmed that this anticancer activity occurrs by inducing apoptosis. To determine if A452 overcomes IMiDs resistance, we checked the change in the protein level of IMiDs direct/indirect targets. As a result, the combination of A452 and IMiDs slightly increased CRBN and decreased Aiolos and Ikaros, the targets of CRBN. Moreover, A452 decreased c-Myc and IRF-4 when combined with IMiDs. These data suggest that A452 helps to overcome the resistance of IMiDs. Finally, significant synergy of anticancer activity was detected when using triple combinations of A452, IMiDs, and dexamethasone. In conclusion, the novel HDAC6-selective inhibitor A452 would be beneficial to combination therapy, including IMiDs in R/R MM as a strategy for overcoming IMiDs resistance.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2020 Jun 25;15(6):e0235578.
Our previous study revealed that expression of G protein-coupled receptor 68 (GPR68) was upregulated in MDSL cells, a cell line representing myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), in response to lenalidomide (LEN), and mediated a calcium/calpain proapoptotic pathway. Isx, a GPR68 agonist, enhanced the sensitivity to LEN in MDSL cells. The fact that Isx is not a U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved drug prompts us to look for alternative candidates that could enhance the sensitivity of LEN in MDS as well as other hematologic malignancies, such as acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In the study described here, we found that regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1), an endogenous inhibitor of calcineurin (CaN), was upregulated in MDSL cells in response to LEN, possibly through degradation of IKZF1. Consistently, cyclosporin (Cys), a pharmacological inhibitor of CaN, inhibited the activity of CaN and induced apoptosis in MDSL cells, indicating that CaN provided a prosurvival signal in MDSL cells. In addition, Cys enhanced the cytotoxic effect of LEN in MDS/AML cell lines as well as primary bone marrow cells from MDS patients and AML patient-derived xenograft models. Intriguingly, pretreatment with LEN reversed the suppressive effect of Cys on T-cell activation. Our study suggests a novel mechanism of action of LEN in mediating cytotoxicity in MDS/AML via upregulation of RCAN1, thus inhibiting the CaN prosurvival pathway. Our study also suggests that Cys enhances the sensitivity to LEN in MDS/AML cells without compromising T-cell activation.
Heterozygous variants in the IKZF5 gene, encoding transcription factor Pegasus, were recently discovered to be causal of inherited thrombocytopenia (IT). We screened 90 patients suspected of inherited thrombocytopenia for variants in 101 genes associated with inherited bleeding disorders and report the clinical presentation of two Danish families with novel variants in IKZF5. Platelet ultrastructure and cytoskeleton were evaluated by immunofluorescent microscopy (IF) and found to be highly abnormal, demonstrating severe disturbances of distribution and expression of non-muscular myosin, filamin, β-tubulin and α tubulin. Number of alpha granules were reduced, and platelets elongated when evaluated by TEM. In both families a child carrying a rare IKZF5 variant was affected by developmental delay. The proband of family A presented with recurrent infections and was examined for an immunodeficiency. The concentration of naive B-cells was found moderately reduced by leucocyte subpopulation examination, indicating an impaired cellular immunity. T-cells were marginally low with reduced share and concentration of CD45RApos, CD31pos, CD4pos recent thymic immigrants as signs of reduced thymic output. The novel IKZF5 variants co-segregated with thrombocytopenia in both families and both probands had significant bleeding tendency. Through comprehensive characterizations of the platelet morphology and function linked to the specific phenotypes we add novel insight to IKZF5-associated thrombocytopenia, which may help to identify and classify more cases with IKZF5 associated IT.
Thalidomide was sold worldwide as a sedative over 60 years ago, but it was quickly withdrawn from the market due to its teratogenic effects. Thalidomide was later found to have therapeutic effects in several diseases, although the molecular mechanisms remained unclear. The discovery of cereblon (CRBN), the direct target of thalidomide, a decade ago greatly improved our understanding of its mechanism of action. Accumulating evidence has shown that CRBN functions as a substrate of Cullin RING E3 ligase (CRL4CRBN), whose specificity is controlled by ligands such as thalidomide. For example, lenalidomide and pomalidomide, well-known thalidomide derivatives, degrade the neosubstrates Ikaros and Aiolos, resulting in anti-proliferative effects in multiple myeloma. Recently, novel CRBN-binding drugs have been developed. However, for the safe handling of thalidomide and its derivatives, a greater understanding of the mechanisms of its adverse effects is required. The teratogenic effects of thalidomide occur in multiple tissues in the developing fetus and vary in phenotype, making it difficult to clarify this issue. Recently, several CRBN neosubstrates (e.g., SALL4 (Spalt Like Transcription Factor 4) and p63 (Tumor Protein P63)) have been identified as candidate mediators of thalidomide teratogenicity. In this review, we describe the current understanding of molecular mechanisms of thalidomide, particularly in the context of its teratogenicity.
Immunomodulatory drugs, such as thalidomide and related compounds, potentiate T-cell effector functions. Cereblon (CRBN), a substrate receptor of the DDB1-cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, is the only molecular target for this drug class, where drug-induced, ubiquitin-dependent degradation of known "neosubstrates," such as IKAROS, AIOLOS, and CK1α, accounts for their biological activity. Far less clear is whether these CRBN E3 ligase-modulating compounds disrupt the endogenous functions of CRBN. We report that CRBN functions in a feedback loop that harnesses antigen-specific CD8+ T-cell effector responses. Specifically, Crbn deficiency in murine CD8+ T cells augments their central metabolism manifested as elevated bioenergetics, with supraphysiological levels of polyamines, secondary to enhanced glucose and amino acid transport, and with increased expression of metabolic enzymes, including the polyamine biosynthetic enzyme ornithine decarboxylase. Treatment with CRBN-modulating compounds similarly augments central metabolism of human CD8+ T cells. Notably, the metabolic control of CD8+ T cells by modulating compounds or Crbn deficiency is linked to increased and sustained expression of the master metabolic regulator MYC. Finally, Crbn-deficient T cells have augmented antigen-specific cytolytic activity vs melanoma tumor cells, ex vivo and in vivo, and drive accelerated and highly aggressive graft-versus-host disease. Therefore, CRBN functions to harness the activation of CD8+ T cells, and this phenotype can be exploited by treatment with drugs.
High-risk B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is an aggressive disease, often characterized by resistance to chemotherapy. A frequent feature of high-risk B-ALL is loss of function of the IKAROS (encoded by the IKZF1 gene) tumor suppressor. Here, we report that IKAROS regulates expression of the BCL2L1 gene (encodes the BCL-XL protein) in human B-ALL. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments demonstrate that IKAROS binds to the BCL2L1 promoter, recruits histone deacetylase HDAC1, and represses BCL2L1 expression via chromatin remodeling. In leukemia, IKAROS' function is impaired by oncogenic casein kinase II (CK2), which is overexpressed in B-ALL. Phosphorylation by CK2 reduces IKAROS binding and recruitment of HDAC1 to the BCL2L1 promoter. This results in a loss of IKAROS-mediated repression of BCL2L1 and increased expression of BCL-XL. Increased expression of BCL-XL and/or CK2, as well as reduced IKAROS expression, are associated with resistance to doxorubicin treatment. Molecular and pharmacological inhibition of CK2 with a specific inhibitor CX-4945, increases binding of IKAROS to the BCL2L1 promoter and enhances IKAROS-mediated repression of BCL2L1 in B-ALL. Treatment with CX-4945 increases sensitivity to doxorubicin in B-ALL, and reverses resistance to doxorubicin in multidrug-resistant B-ALL. Combination treatment with CX-4945 and doxorubicin show synergistic therapeutic effects in vitro and in preclinical models of high-risk B-ALL. Results reveal a novel signaling network that regulates chemoresistance in leukemia. These data lay the groundwork for clinical testing of a rationally designed, targeted therapy that combines the CK2 inhibitor, CX-4945, with doxorubicin for the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies.
The IKZF1 gene encodes for Ikaros, a transcriptional factor in B-cell development. Deletions in this gene have been associated with a worse prognosis in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). We evaluated the presence of these alterations in all Costa Rican pediatric patients diagnosed with B-ALL between 2011 and 2014, treated with a modified Berlin-Frankfurt-Münster therapeutic protocol. Multiplex polymerase chain reaction with 2 detection methods (agarose gel and gene scanning) was used to detect intragenic deletions and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification for whole-gene deletions. Differences between groups (normal vs. deleted IKZF1) were analyzed by the χ test, the Kaplan-Meier test was used to calculate relapse-free survival and overall survival, and Cox regression was performed for multivariant analysis. Minimum follow-up was 4.5 years. Incidence of IKZF1 deletions was 12.9% (n=20), with an equal amount of intragenic and complete gene deletions. Adverse karyotype (P=0.048), high-risk category (P=0.030), occurrence of relapse (P=0.021), and medullar relapse (P=0.011) were statistically associated with the presence of deletions in IKZF1. Relapse-free survival at 54 months was lower in patients harboring an IKZF1 deletion than that in patients with IKZF1-wt (40.0% vs. 66.7%; P=0.014). Patients with B-ALL and IKZF1 deletions, showed a poorer relapse-free survival, in comparison with patients with IKZF1-wt, suggesting that IKZF1 status is an independent prognostic factor for pediatric patients with B-ALL.
The expression of anti-inflammatory IL-10 by CD4+ T cells is indispensable for immune homeostasis, as it allows T cells to moderate their effector function. We previously showed that TNF-α blockade during T cell stimulation in CD4+ T cell/monocyte cocultures resulted in maintenance of IL-10-producing T cells and identified IKZF3 as a putative regulator of IL-10. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that IKZF3 is a transcriptional regulator of IL-10 using a human CD4+ T cell-only culture system. IL-10+ CD4+ T cells expressed the highest levels of IKZF3 both ex vivo and after activation compared with IL-10-CD4+ T cells. Pharmacological targeting of IKZF3 with the drug lenalidomide showed that IKZF3 is required for anti-CD3/CD28 mAb-mediated induction of IL-10 but is dispensable for ex vivo IL-10 expression. However, overexpression of IKZF3 was unable to upregulate IL-10 at the mRNA or protein level in CD4+ T cells and did not drive the transcription of the IL10 promoter or putative local enhancer constructs. Collectively, these data indicate that IKZF3 is associated with but not sufficient for IL-10 expression in CD4+ T cells.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Yinzhou People's Hospital, Ningbo 315040, Zhejiang Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Yinzhou People's Hospital, Ningbo 315040, Zhejiang Province, China,E-mail: peirz@163.com.(3)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou 215006, Jiangsu Province, China.
In recent years, a subgroup of B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP ALL) without an established abnormality ("B-other") has been shown to be characterized by rearrangements of ABL1, ABL2, CSF1R, or PDGFRB (a.k.a. ABL-class genes). Using FISH with probes for these genes, we screened 55 pediatric and 50 adult B-other cases. Three (6%) of the adult but none of the childhood B-other cases were positive for ABL-class aberrations. RT-PCR and sequencing confirmed a rare SFPQ-ABL1 fusion in one adult B-other case with t(1;9)(p34;q34). Only six SFPQ-ABL1-positive BCP ALLs have been reported, present case included. A review of these shows that all harbored fusions between exon 9 of SFPQ and exon 4 of ABL1, that the fusion is typically found in adolescents/younger adults without hyperleukocytosis, and that IKZF1 deletions are recurrent. The few patients not treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and/or allogeneic stem cell transplantation relapsed, strengthening the notion that TKI should be added to the therapy of SFPQ-ABL1-positive BCP ALL.
OBJECTIVES: Parkinson disease (PD), a neurodegenerative disease, has also some immunologic basis in which several regulatory factors, like Helios and Neuropilin-1 (NRP-1) may show some roles in its pathogenesis. We aimed to evaluate the circulatory frequency of T regulatory cells (Tregs) expressing Helios and NRP-1 in PD.PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this case-control study, 83 patients with PD and 83 healthy controls were enrolled. The diagnosis of PD was accomplished in accordance with clinical diagnostic criteria of the UK Parkinson Disease Society Brain Bank. The modified Hoehn and Yahr (H and Y) were used to measure the severity of PD. Flow cytometry was used to evaluate the circulatory frequency of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+Tregs expressing and Helios and NRP-1 in all participants. Also, correlation of H and Y with such frequencies was evaluated.RESULTS: Our findings showed that frequency of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+Tregs expressing NRP-1 (P = 0.04) and Helios (P = 0.01) in patients with PD was significantly higher than those in healthy subjects. The frequency of Tregs expressing Helios and NRP-1 showed a negative correlation with H and Y criteria and disease duration. Multiple linear regression analysis indicated that the severity of PD is the only effective factor on the frequency of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+NRP-1+Tregs (P = 0.012) and CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ Helios + Tregs (P = 0.038).CONCLUSION: Our study showed that the increased frequency of Tregs expressing Helios and NRP-1 is associated with the severity of PD.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are a subset of immune cells that suppress the immune response. Treg therapy for inflammatory diseases is being tested in the clinic, with moderate success. However, it is difficult to isolate and expand Tregs to sufficient numbers. Engineered Tregs (eTregs) can be generated in larger quantities by genetically manipulating conventional T cells to express FOXP3. These eTregs can suppress in vitro and in vivo but not as effectively as endogenous Tregs. We hypothesized that ectopic expression of the transcription factor Helios along with FOXP3 is required for optimal eTreg immunosuppression. To test this theory, we generated eTregs by retrovirally transducing total human T cells (CD4+ and CD8+) with FOXP3 alone or with each of the 2 predominant isoforms of Helios. Expression of both FOXP3 and the full-length isoform of Helios was required for eTreg-mediated disease delay in a xenogeneic graft-versus-host disease model. In vitro, this corresponded with superior suppressive function of FOXP3 and full-length Helios-expressing CD4+ and CD8+ eTregs. RNA sequencing showed that the addition of full-length Helios changed gene expression in cellular pathways and the Treg signature compared with FOXP3 alone or the other major Helios isoform. Together, these results show that functional human CD4+ and CD8+ eTregs can be generated from total human T cells by coexpressing FOXP3 and full-length Helios.
Thalidomide-dependent degradation of the embryonic transcription factor SALL4 by the CRL4CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase is a plausible major driver of thalidomide teratogenicity. The structure of the second zinc finger of SALL4 in complex with pomalidomide, cereblon and DDB1 reveals the molecular details of recruitment. Sequence differences and a shifted binding position relative to Ikaros offer a path to the rational design of cereblon-binding drugs with reduced teratogenic risk.
Advances in genomics have deepened our understanding of the biology of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), defined novel molecular leukemia subtypes, discovered new prognostic biomarkers and paved the way to emerging molecularly targeted therapeutic avenues. Since its discovery, IKZF1 has generated significant interest within the leukemia scientific community.IKZF1 plays a critical role in lymphoid development and its alterations cooperate to mediate leukemogenesis. IKZF1 alterations are present in approximately 15% of childhood ALL, rise in prevalence among adults with ALL and become highly enriched within kinase-driven ALL. A cumulating body of literature has highlighted the adverse prognostic impact of IKZF1 alterations in both Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-negative and Ph-driven ALL. IKZF1 alterations thus emerge as an important prognostic biomarker in ALL. This article aims to provide a state-of-the-art review focusing on the prognostic clinical relevance of IKZF1 alterations in ALL, as well as current and future therapeutic strategies targeting IKZF1-altered ALL.
Ikaros is a DNA-binding protein that regulates gene expression and functions as a tumor suppressor in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). The full cohort of Ikaros target genes have yet to be identified. Here, we demonstrate that Ikaros directly regulates expression of the small GTPase, Rab20. Using ChIP-seq and qChIP we assessed Ikaros binding and the epigenetic signature at the RAB20 promoter. Expression of Ikaros, CK2, and RAB20 was determined by qRT-PCR. Overexpression of Ikaros was achieved by retroviral transduction, whereas shRNA was used to knockdown Ikaros and CK2. Regulation of transcription from the RAB20 promoter was analyzed by luciferase reporter assay. The results showed that Ikaros binds the RAB20 promoter in B-ALL. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments demonstrated that Ikaros represses RAB20 transcription via chromatin remodeling. Phosphorylation by CK2 kinase reduces Ikaros' affinity toward the RAB20 promoter and abolishes its ability to repress RAB20 transcription. Dephosphorylation by PP1 phosphatase enhances both Ikaros' DNA-binding affinity toward the RAB20 promoter and RAB20 repression. In conclusion, the results demonstrated opposing effects of CK2 and PP1 on expression of Rab20 via control of Ikaros' activity as a transcriptional regulator. A novel regulatory signaling network in B-cell leukemia that involves CK2, PP1, Ikaros, and Rab20 is identified.
By hijacking endogenous E3 ligase to degrade protein targets via the ubiquitin-proteasome system, PROTACs (PRoteolysis TArgeting Chimeras) provide a new strategy to inhibit protein targets that were regarded as undruggable before. However, the catalytic nature of PROTAC potentially leads to uncontrolled degradation that causes systemic toxicity issues, limiting the application of PROTAC in the clinic. Here, we introduce a light-inducible switch on PROTACs, thereafter termed as opto-PROTAC, to enable the degradation of protein targets in a spatiotemporal manner. By adding a photolabile caging group on pomalidomide as a parental compound and two additional PROTACs, dBET1 and dALK, we demonstrated light-inducible protein degradation. These opto-PROTACs display no activities in the dark, while the restricted degradation can be induced at a specific time and rate by ultraviolet A irradiation. Our approach provides a generalizable platform for the development of light-controlled PROTACs and enables PROTAC to be a precision medicine.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic and relapsing inflammatory disease that affects 1%-20% of people worldwide. Despite affecting many people, AD current treatments, such as corticosteroids and calcineurin inhibitors, have not only harmful secondary effects but are also often ineffective. Therefore, natural nontoxic compounds are on high demand for developing new effective AD treatments. Panax ginseng Meyer has been used traditionally for its promising healing and restorative properties to treat many diseases including skin disorders, reason why in this review we want to explore the research performed with AD and P. ginseng as well as determining its potential for new drug development. Previous researches have shown that P. ginseng has positive effects in AD patients such as lower eczema area and severity index, transepidermal water loss, and immunoglobulin E levels and better quality of sleep. In vivo animal models, as well, have shown positive results to P. ginseng and derived ginsenosides, such as the decrease of transepidermal water loss, immunoglobulin E levels in serum, allergy-related cytokines, and downregulation of NF-κB, MAPK, and Ikaros pathways. All of these previous data suggest that P. ginseng and its derived ginsenosides are undoubtedly a nontoxic effective option to treat AD.
Regulation of oncogenic gene expression by transcription factors that function as tumor suppressors is one of the major mechanisms that regulate leukemogenesis. Understanding this complex process is essential for explaining the pathogenesis of leukemia as well as developing targeted therapies. Here, we provide an overview of the role of Ikaros tumor suppressor and its role in regulation of gene transcription in acute leukemia. Ikaros (IKZF1) is a DNA-binding protein that functions as a master regulator of hematopoiesis and the immune system, as well as a tumor suppressor in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Genetic alteration or functional inactivation of Ikaros results in the development of high-risk leukemia. Ikaros binds to the specific consensus binding motif at upstream regulatory elements of its target genes, recruits chromatin-remodeling complexes and activates or represses transcription via chromatin remodeling. Over the last twenty years, a large number of Ikaros target genes have been identified, and the role of Ikaros in the regulation of their expression provided insight into the mechanisms of Ikaros tumor suppressor function in leukemia. Here we summarize the role of Ikaros in the regulation of the expression of the genes whose function is critical for cellular proliferation, development, and progression of acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
In this study, we conduct a comparison of three most recent statistical methods for joint variable selection and covariance estimation with application of detecting expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) and gene network estimation, and introduce a new hierarchical Bayesian method to be included in the comparison. Unlike the traditional univariate regression approach in eQTL, all four methods correlate phenotypes and genotypes by multivariate regression models that incorporate the dependence information among phenotypes, and use Bayesian multiplicity adjustment to avoid multiple testing burdens raised by traditional multiple testing correction methods. We presented the performance of three methods (MSSL - Multivariate Spike and Slab Lasso, SSUR - Sparse Seemingly Unrelated Bayesian Regression, and OBFBF - Objective Bayes Fractional Bayes Factor), along with the proposed, JDAG (Joint estimation via a Gaussian Directed Acyclic Graph model) method through simulation experiments, and publicly available HapMap real data, taking asthma as an example. Compared with existing methods, JDAG identified networks with higher sensitivity and specificity under row-wise sparse settings. JDAG requires less execution in small-to-moderate dimensions, but is not currently applicable to high dimensional data. The eQTL analysis in asthma data showed a number of known gene regulations such as STARD3, IKZF3 and PGAP3, all reported in asthma studies. The code of the proposed method is freely available at GitHub (https://github.com/xuan-cao/Joint-estimation-for-eQTL).
Risk-adapted therapy has significantly contributed to improved survival rates in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and reliable detection of chromosomal aberrations is mandatory for risk group stratification. This study evaluated the applicability of panel-based RNA sequencing and array CGH within the diagnostic workflow of the German study group of the international AIEOP-BFM ALL 2017 trial. In a consecutive cohort of 117 children with B cell precursor (BCP) ALL, array analysis identified twelve cases with an IKZF1plus profile of gene deletions and one case of masked hypodiploidy. Genetic markers BCR-ABL1 (n = 1), ETV6-RUNX1 (n = 25), and rearrangements involving KMT2A (n = 3) or TCF3 (n = 3) were assessed by established conventional techniques such as karyotyping, FISH, and RT-PCR. Comparison of these results with RNA sequencing analysis revealed overall consistency in n=115/117 cases, albeit with one undetected AFF1-KMT2A fusion in RNA sequencing and one undetected ETV6-RUNX1 fusion in conventional analyses. The combined application of RNA sequencing, FISH, and CGH+SNP array reliably detected all genetic markers necessary for risk stratification and will be used as the diagnostic standard workflow for BCP-ALL patients enrolled in the AIEOP-BFM ALL 2017 study. Prospectively, consistent collection of genome-wide CGH+SNP array as well as RNA sequencing data will be a valuable source to elucidate new prognostic lesions beyond established markers of pediatric ALL. In this respect, RNA sequencing identified various gene fusions in up to half of the IKZF1plus (n = 6/12) and B-other (n = 19/36) cases but not in cases with hyperdiploid karyotypes (n = 35). Among these fusions, this study reports several previously undescribed in frame PAX5 fusions, including PAX5-MYO1G and PAX5-NCOA6.
During development, neural progenitors change their competence states over time to sequentially generate different types of neurons and glia. Several cascades of temporal transcription factors (tTFs) have been discovered in Drosophila to control the temporal identity of neuroblasts, but the temporal regulation mechanism is poorly understood in vertebrates. Mammalian retinal progenitor cells (RPCs) give rise to several types of neuronal and glial cells following a sequential yet overlapping temporal order. Here, by temporal cluster analysis, RNA-sequencing analysis, and loss-of-function and gain-of-function studies, we show that the Fox domain TF Foxn4 functions as a tTF during retinogenesis to confer RPCs with the competence to generate the mid/late-early cell types: amacrine, horizontal, cone, and rod cells, while suppressing the competence of generating the immediate-early cell type: retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). In early embryonic retinas, Foxn4 inactivation causes down-regulation of photoreceptor marker genes and decreased photoreceptor generation but increased RGC production, whereas its overexpression has the opposite effect. Just as in Drosophila, Foxn4 appears to positively regulate its downstream tTF Casz1 while negatively regulating its upstream tTF Ikzf1. Moreover, retina-specific ablation of Foxn4 reveals that it may be indirectly involved in the synaptogenesis, establishment of laminar structure, visual signal transmission, and long-term maintenance of the retina. Together, our data provide evidence that Foxn4 acts as a tTF to bias RPCs toward the mid/late-early cell fates and identify a missing member of the tTF cascade that controls RPC temporal identities to ensure the generation of proper neuronal diversity in the retina.
Cereblon (CRBN) is a target for immunomodulatory drugs. This study investigated the prognostic value of the expression of CRBN-pathway genes on the clinical relevance of lenalidomide (Len) treatment and evaluated the levels of CRBN-binding proteins and mutations in these genes after Len treatment. Forty-eight primary multiple myeloma cells were collected prior to treatment with Len and dexamethasone (Ld) and 25 paired samples were obtained post-Ld therapy. These tumor cells were used to determine the expression and mutated forms of the CRBN-pathway genes. Following normalization with CRBN levels, there was a significantly reduced IKZF1/CRBN ratio in samples that responded poorly to Ld therapy. Moreover, patients with low ratios of IKZF1/CRBN showed a significantly shorter progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) than those with higher ratios. However, patients with high ratios of KPNA2/CRBN showed a significantly shorter PFS and OS than patients with lower ratios. Of the 25 paired samples analyzed, most samples showed a reduction in the expression of CRBN and an increase in IKZF1 gene expression. No mutations were observed in CRBN, IKZF1, or CUL4A genes in the post-Ld samples. In conclusion, a decreased expression of IKZF1 and increased expression of KPNA2 compared to that of CRBN mRNA predicts poor outcomes of Ld therapy.
Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is the most common childhood malignancy with the majority of patients being classified as B-cell lineage (B-ALL). The sub-classification of B-ALL is based on genomic architecture. Recent studies have demonstrated the capability of SNP-microarrays to detect genomic changes in B-ALL which cannot be observed by conventional cytogenetic methods. In current clinical trials, B-ALL patients at high risk of relapse are mainly identified by adverse cancer genomics and/or poor response to early therapy. To test the hypothesis that inclusion of SNP-microarrays in frontline diagnostics could more efficiently and accurately identify adverse genomic factors than conventional techniques, we evaluated the Australian high-risk B-ALL cohort enrolled on AIEOP-BFM ALL 2009 study (n = 33). SNP-microarray analysis identified additional aberrations in 97% of patients (32/33) compared to conventional techniques. This changed the genomic risk category of 24% (8/33) of patients. Additionally, 27% (9/33) of patients exhibited a 'hyperdiploid' genome, which is generally associated with a good genomic risk and favourable outcomes. An enrichment of IKZF1 deletions was observed with one third of the cohort affected. Our findings suggest the current classification system could be improved and highlights the need to use more sensitive techniques such as SNP-microarray for cytogenomic risk stratification in B-ALL.
Background: Loss of immune homeostasis to enteric pathogens is considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis (UC), and regulatory T cells (Tregs) are key for this immune homeostasis. Helios exhibits an important effect on regulating the suppressive function of Tregs. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is more commonly detected in UC. However, whether there is an association between EBV infection and Helios+Tregs and its impact on disease activity of UC remain unclear. We aimed to explore the clinical significance of Helios+Tregs and their potential association with EBV infection in UC. Methods: Seventy-six UC patients and 38 controls were consecutively enrolled. Helios+FoxP3+Tregs were analyzed using flow cytometry and compared among groups. Eight active UC patients treated with 5-aminosalicylic acid were followed up. Correlation analyses were conducted between Helios+FoxP3+Tregs and disease activity indicators. In addition, EBV viral loads in the mucosal lesion were quantified in active UC by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and were comprehensively analyzed in subgroups of different disease severity, and their associations with Helios+FoxP3+Tregs were also analyzed. Results: Helios+FoxP3+Tregs were significantly decreased in active UC and were inversely correlated with serum C-reactive protein and Mayo score. Moreover, we observed the recovery of Helios+FoxP3+Tregs in followed-up active UC achieving remission after treatment. EBV loads were higher in active UC, and levels of Helios+FoxP3+Tregs in the EBV-positive subgroup were lower than the EBV-negative subgroup in moderate and severe active patients. Most importantly, we found that Helios+FoxP3+Tregs were significantly negatively correlated with EBV viral loads. Conclusion: Helios+FoxP3+Tregs are likely to play a pivotal role in disease activity of UC and may be influenced by EBV infection.
Protein ubiquitylation is involved in a plethora of cellular processes. While antibodies directed at ubiquitin remnants (K-ɛ-GG) have improved the ability to monitor ubiquitylation using mass spectrometry, methods for highly multiplexed measurement of ubiquitylation in tissues and primary cells using sub-milligram amounts of sample remains a challenge. Here, we present a highly sensitive, rapid and multiplexed protocol termed UbiFast for quantifying ~10,000 ubiquitylation sites from as little as 500 μg peptide per sample from cells or tissue in a TMT10plex in ca. 5 h. High-field Asymmetric Waveform Ion Mobility Spectrometry (FAIMS) is used to improve quantitative accuracy for posttranslational modification analysis. We use the approach to rediscover substrates of the E3 ligase targeting drug lenalidomide and to identify proteins modulated by ubiquitylation in models of basal and luminal human breast cancer. The sensitivity and speed of the UbiFast method makes it suitable for large-scale studies in primary tissue samples.
Multiple myeloma had been successfully treated by combining lenalidomide and bortezomib with reports suggesting benefits of such a combination even in relapsed/refractory cases. Recently, it was demonstrated that Ikaros degradation by lenalidomide happens via proteasome-dependent pathway and this process is critical for the eradication of myeloma cells. On the basis of this, an antagonistic effect should be observed if a combination of both these agents were used, which however is not the observation seen in the clinical setting. Our study demonstrates that when these agents are combined they exhibit a synergistic activity against myeloma cells and degradation of Ikaros happens by a proteasome-independent calcium-induced calpain pathway. Our study identifies the crucial role of calcium-induced calpain pathway in inducing apoptosis of myeloma cells when this combination or lenalidomide and bortezomib is used. We also report that this combination enhanced the expression of CD38 compared with lenalidomide alone. Thus, data from our study would establish the rationale for the addition of daratumumab along with this combination to further enhance therapeutic activity against multiple myeloma. IMPLICATIONS: Lenalidomide and bortezomib combination degrades IKZF1 in multiple myeloma through a calcium-dependent calpain and caspase pathway. VISUAL OVERVIEW: http://mcr.aacrjournals.org/content/molcanres/18/4/529/F1.large.jpg.
BACKGROUND: The sensitive detection of recurrent colorectal cancer (CRC) by the measurement of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) might improve the chance of a cure. This study compared a quantitative methylated ctDNA test with carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in the setting of surveillance for recurrence.METHODS: Blood samples collected either during surveillance or within 12 months of the confirmation of recurrence were assayed for ctDNA (methylated branched-chain amino acid transaminase 1 [BCAT1]/Ikaros family zinc-finger 1 protein [IKZF1]) and CEA. The optimal ctDNA threshold was determined by receiver operating characteristic analysis, and the test performance for the detection of recurrence was compared with CEA (5 ng/mL threshold).RESULTS: The study cohort comprised 144 eligible patients and included 50 recurrence events. The sensitivity of the methylated ctDNA test for recurrence was 66.0% (95% confidence interval [CI], 57.1%-69.3%), which was significantly higher than the sensitivity of CEA (31.9%; 95% CI, 22.8%-36.6%; P < .001). The sensitivity for resectable recurrence (n = 20) was also higher (ctDNA, 60.0%; CEA, 20.0%; P = .01). The specificity did not differ between the tests (ctDNA, 97.9%; 95% CI, 93.2%-99.6%; CEA, 96.4%; 95% CI, 91.4%-99.0%). When adjustments were made for other predictors of the presence of recurrence, a positive ctDNA test was an independent predictor (odds ratio, 155.7; 95% CI, 17.9-1360.6; P < .001), whereas CEA was not (odds ratio, 2.5; 95% CI, 0.3-20.6; P = .407).CONCLUSIONS: The quantitative ctDNA test showed superior sensitivity in comparison with CEA without a difference in the specificity for detecting recurrent CRC. Longitudinal studies are warranted to further assess the utility (specifically the survival benefit) of methylated BCAT1/IKZF1 ctDNA in the surveillance of patients with CRC.
An immunosuppressive microenvironment promoting leukemia cell immune escape plays an important role in the pathogenesis of AML. Through its interaction with cereblon, a substrate receptor for the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, pomalidomide leads to selective ubiquitination of transcription factors Aiolos and Ikaros thereby promoting immune modulation. In this phase I trial, 51 newly diagnosed non-favorable risk AML and high-risk MDS patients were enrolled and treated with AcDVP16 (cytarabine 667 mg/m2/day IV continuous infusion days 1-3, daunorubicin 45 mg/m2 IV days 1-3, etoposide 400 mg/m2 IV days 8-10) induction therapy followed by dose- and duration-escalation pomalidomide beginning at early lymphocyte recovery. Forty-three patients (AML: n = 39, MDS: n = 4) received pomalidomide. The maximum tolerated dose of pomalidomide was 4 mg for 21 consecutive days. The overall complete remission (CR + CRi) rate, median overall survival, and disease-free survival were 75%, 27.1 and 20.6 months, respectively. Subset analyses revealed 86% CR/CRi rate in AML patients with unfavorable-risk karyotype treated with pomalidomide. Pomalidomide significantly decreased Aiolos expression in both CD4+ and CD8+ peripheral blood and bone marrow T cells, promoted T cell differentiation, proliferation, and heightened their cytokine production. Finally, pomalidomide induced distinct gene expression changes in immune function-related ontologies in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.
BACKGROUND: Since bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) facilitates the transcription of genes important for neoplastic cells in a cancer-type specific manner, BRD4-regulated molecules may also include therapeutic targets for mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), a treatment-refractory subtype of malignant lymphoma.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In order to uncover direct BRD4-regulated targets in MCL, we performed integrated analysis using the pathway database and the results of both gene-expression profiling and chromatin immunoprecipitation with parallel sequencing for BRD4.RESULTS: Treatment with BRD4 inhibitor I-BET151 exerted a dose-dependent inhibitory effect on cell proliferation in MCL cell lines. BRD4 was found to directly regulate series of genes involved in the B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling pathway, including B-cell linker (BLNK), paired box 5 (PAX5), and IKAROS family zinc finger 3 (IKZF3), and several oncogenes, such as MYB. Indeed, the combinatory inhibition of BCR pathway and IKZF showed an additive antitumor effect.CONCLUSION: Concomitant targeting multiple BRD4-regulated molecules may constitute a rational therapeutic strategy for MCL.
Proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) are an emerging strategy for promoting targeted protein degradation by inducing the proximity between targeted proteins and E3 ubiquitin ligases. Although successful degradation of numerous proteins by PROTACs has been demonstrated, the elements that determine the degradability of PROTAC-targeted proteins have not yet been explored. In this study, we developed von Hippel-Lindau-Cereblon (VHL-CRBN) heterodimerizing PROTACs that induce the degradation of CRBN, but not VHL. A quantitative proteomic analysis further revealed that VHL-CRBN heterodimerizing PROTACs induced the degradation of CRBN, but not the well-known immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) neo-substrates, IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) and -3 (IZKF3). Moreover, truncation of disordered regions of CRBN and the androgen receptor (AR) attenuated their PROTAC-induced degradation, and attachment of the disordered region to stable CRBN or AR facilitated PROTAC-induced degradation. Thus, these results suggest that the intrinsically disordered region of targeted proteins is essential for efficient proteolysis, providing a novel criterion for choosing degradable protein targets.
BACKGROUND: EOS plays an important role in maintaining the suppressive function of regulatory T cells (Tregs), and induces a regulated transformation of Tregs into T helper-like cells, which are capable of secreting proinflammatory cytokines in response to specific inflammatory signals. Meanwhile, significant reduction in Treg activity along with production of proinflammatory cytokines has been reported in patients with HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP).METHODS: In this study, to examine whether there is an alteration in EOS expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) derived from HTLV-1-infected individuals especially HAM/TSP, we investigated the expression of HTLV-1 tax genotype, proviral load (PVL), and the mRNA expression of tax, HBZ and EOS in HTLV-1 infected individuals including adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL), HAM/TSP, or asymptomatic carriers. The expression levels of EOS mRNA and protein in various HTLV-1-infected or uninfected human T-cell lines were also investigated.RESULTS: EOS was highly expressed at the protein level in most HTLV-1 infected T-cell lines, and was augmented after the HTLV-1 regulatory factor Tax was induced in a Tax-inducible JPX-9 cell line. Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated a physical interaction between EOS and the viral regulatory protein Tax, but not HBZ. Meanwhile, there was a significant decrease in EOS mRNA levels in PBMCs of HTLV-1 infected individuals irrespective of their clinical statuses. We found an inverse correlation between EOS mRNA levels and HTLV-1 PVL in ATL patients, and positive correlations between both EOS mRNA load and PVL, and EOS and HBZ mRNA load in HAM/TSP patients, whereas this correlation was not observed in other clinical statuses.CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that both Tax and HBZ can alter the expression of EOS through undetermined mechanisms, and dysregulated expression of EOS in PBMCs of HTLV-1 infected individuals may contribute to the pathological progression of HTLV-1-associated diseases, such as ATL and HAM/TSP.
Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) is a rare and highly aggressive hematological malignancy with a poorly understood pathobiology and no effective therapeutic options. Despite a few recurrent genetic defects (eg, single nucleotide changes, indels, large chromosomal aberrations) have been identified in BPDCN, none are disease-specific, and more importantly, none explain its genesis or clinical behavior. In this study, we performed the first high resolution whole-genome analysis of BPDCN with a special focus on structural genomic alterations by using whole-genome sequencing and RNA sequencing. Our study, the first to characterize the landscape of genomic rearrangements and copy number alterations of BPDCN at nucleotide-level resolution, revealed that IKZF1, a gene encoding a transcription factor required for the differentiation of plasmacytoid dendritic cell precursors, is focally inactivated through recurrent structural alterations in this neoplasm. In concordance with the genomic data, transcriptome analysis revealed that conserved IKZF1 target genes display a loss-of-IKZF1 expression pattern. Furthermore, up-regulation of cellular processes responsible for cell-cell and cell-ECM interactions, which is a hallmark of IKZF1 deficiency, was prominent in BPDCN. Our findings suggest that IKZF1 inactivation plays a central role in the pathobiology of the disease, and consequently, therapeutic approaches directed at reestablishing the function of this gene might be beneficial for patients.
Secondary diversification of the Ig repertoire occurs through somatic hypermutation (SHM), gene conversion (GCV), and class switch recombination (CSR)-three processes that are initiated by activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID). AID targets Ig genes at orders of magnitude higher than the rest of the genome, but the basis for this specificity is poorly understood. We have previously demonstrated that enhancers and enhancer-like sequences from Ig genes are capable of stimulating SHM of neighboring genes in a capacity distinct from their roles in increasing transcription. Here, we use an in vitro proteomics approach to identify E-box, MEF2, Ets, and Ikaros transcription factor family members as potential binders of these enhancers. ChIP assays in the hypermutating Ramos B cell line confirmed that many of these factors bound the endogenous Igλ enhancer and/or the IgH intronic enhancer (Eμ) in vivo. Further investigation using SHM reporter assays identified binding sites for E2A and MEF2B in Eμ and demonstrated an association between loss of factor binding and decreases in the SHM stimulating activity of Eμ mutants. Our results provide novel insights into trans-acting factors that dictate SHM targeting and link their activity to specific DNA binding sites within Ig enhancers.
Improved personalized adjustment of primary therapy to the perceived risk of relapse by using new prognostic markers for treatment stratification may be beneficial to patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Here, we review the advances that have shed light on the role of IKZF1 aberration as prognostic factor in pediatric ALL and summarize emerging concepts in this field. Continued research on the interplay of disease biology with exposure and response to treatment will be key to further improve treatment strategies.
Members of the GATA family of transcription factors play key roles in the differentiation of specific cell lineages by regulating the expression of target genes. Three GATA factors play distinct roles in hematopoietic differentiation. In order to better understand how these GATA factors function to regulate genes throughout the genome, we are studying the epigenomic and transcriptional landscapes of hematopoietic cells in a model-driven, integrative fashion. We have formed the collaborative multi-lab VISION project to conduct ValIdated Systematic IntegratiON of epigenomic data in mouse and human hematopoiesis. The epigenomic data included nuclease accessibility in chromatin, CTCF occupancy, and histone H3 modifications for 20 cell types covering hematopoietic stem cells, multilineage progenitor cells, and mature cells across the blood cell lineages of mouse. The analysis used the Integrative and Discriminative Epigenome Annotation System (IDEAS), which learns all common combinations of features (epigenetic states) simultaneously in two dimensions-along chromosomes and across cell types. The result is a segmentation that effectively paints the regulatory landscape in readily interpretable views, revealing constitutively active or silent loci as well as the loci specifically induced or repressed in each stage and lineage. Nuclease accessible DNA segments in active chromatin states were designated candidate cis-regulatory elements in each cell type, providing one of the most comprehensive registries of candidate hematopoietic regulatory elements to date. Applications of VISION resources are illustrated for the regulation of genes encoding GATA1, GATA2, GATA3, and Ikaros. VISION resources are freely available from our website http://usevision.org.
T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation and cytokine cues drive the differentiation of CD4+ naïve T cells into effector T cell populations with distinct proinflammatory or regulatory functions. Unlike adult naïve T cells, human fetal naïve CD4+ T cells preferentially differentiate into FOXP3+ regulatory T (Treg) cells upon TCR activation independent of exogenous cytokine signaling. This cell-intrinsic predisposition for Treg differentiation is implicated in the generation of tolerance in utero; however, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we identify epigenetic and transcriptional programs shared between fetal naïve T and committed Treg cells that are inactive in adult naïve T cells and show that fetal-derived induced Treg (iTreg) cells retain this transcriptional program. We show that a subset of Treg-specific enhancers is accessible in fetal naïve T cells, including two active superenhancers at Helios Helios is expressed in fetal naïve T cells but not in adult naïve T cells, and fetal iTreg cells maintain Helios expression. CRISPR-Cas9 ablation of Helios in fetal naïve T cells impaired their differentiation into iTreg cells upon TCR stimulation, reduced expression of immunosuppressive genes in fetal iTreg cells such as IL10, and increased expression of proinflammatory genes including IFNG Consequently, Helios knockout fetal iTreg cells had reduced IL-10 and increased IFN-γ cytokine production. Together, our results reveal important roles for Helios in enhancing preferential fetal Treg differentiation and fine-tuning eventual Treg function. The Treg-biased programs identified within fetal naïve T cells could potentially be used to engineer enhanced iTreg populations for adoptive cellular therapies.
BACKGROUND: Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) is a complicated condition of patients with advanced tumors. Further dissecting the microenvironment of infiltrated immune cells and malignant cells are warranted to understand the immune-evasion mechanisms of tumor development and progression.METHODS: The possible involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in malignant pleural fluid was investigated using small RNA sequencing. Regulatory T cell (Treg) markers (CD4, CD25, forkhead box P3), and Helios (also known as IKAROS Family Zinc Finger 2 [IKZF2]) were detected using flow cytometry. The expression levels of IKZF2 and miR-4772-3p were measured using quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. The interaction between miR-4772-3p and Helios was determined using dual-luciferase reporter assays. The effects of miR-4772-3p on Helios expression were evaluated using an in vitro system. Correlation assays between miR-4772-3p and functional molecules of Tregs were performed.RESULTS: Compared with non-malignant controls, patients with non-small cell lung cancer had an increased Tregs frequency with Helios expression in the MPE and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The verified downregulation of miR-4772-3p was inversely related to the Helios Tregs frequency and Helios expression in the MPE. Overexpression of miR-4772-3p could inhibit Helios expression in in vitro experiments. However, ectopic expression of Helios in induced Tregs reversed the effects induced by miR-4772-3p overexpression. Additionally, miR-4772-3p could regulate Helios expression by directly targeting IKZF2 mRNA.CONCLUSION: Downregulation of miR-4772-3p, by targeting Helios, contributes to enhanced Tregs activities in the MPE microenvironment.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) establishes lifelong latent infection in humans and is associated with several lymphoid and epithelial cancers. In nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), EBV expresses few viral proteins but elevated levels of Bam-HI A rightward transcripts (BARTs) RNA, which includes viral microRNAs and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). BART lncRNAs localize within the nucleus of EBV-infected cells and knockdown of BART lncRNAs significantly affects the expression of genes associated with cell adhesion, oxidoreductase activity, inflammation, and immunity. Notably, downregulation of IKAROS family zinc finger 3 (IKZF3/Aiolos), which plays a role in lymphocyte development and cell attachment, occurred in NPC C666-1 cells following BART lncRNA-knockdown. Since Aiolos expression is normally restricted to lymphoid cells and rarely observed in epithelial cells, induction of Aiolos by BART lncRNA was confirmed by expressing the major BART lncRNA isoform, RPMS1, in EBV-positive and -negative cells. BART lncRNA associated with the CBP/p300 complex and RNA polymerase II (Pol II) in the nucleus, suggesting that BART lncRNAs may mediate epigenetic regulation of gene expression through interaction with the chromatin remodeling machinery. This contention is further supported by evidence that BART lncRNA appears to stall Pol II at the promoter region and may regulate IFNB1 and CXCL8 expression by inhibiting transcription by Pol II in NPC. We hypothesize that EBV BART lncRNA expression modulates host gene expression and maintains EBV latency by interfering with histone methylation and acetylation processes. Aberrant expression of affected host genes mediated by BART lncRNA may lead to immune evasion, progression, and metastasis of NPC.
Rapid advances in single-cell assays have outpaced methods for analysis of those data types. Different single-cell assays show extensive variation in sensitivity and signal to noise levels. In particular, scATAC-seq generates extremely sparse and noisy datasets. Existing methods developed to analyze this data require cells amenable to pseudo-time analysis or require datasets with drastically different cell-types. We describe a novel approach using self-organizing maps (SOM) to link scATAC-seq regions with scRNA-seq genes that overcomes these challenges and can generate draft regulatory networks. Our SOMatic package generates chromatin and gene expression SOMs separately and combines them using a linking function. We applied SOMatic on a mouse pre-B cell differentiation time-course using controlled Ikaros over-expression to recover gene ontology enrichments, identify motifs in genomic regions showing similar single-cell profiles, and generate a gene regulatory network that both recovers known interactions and predicts new Ikaros targets during the differentiation process. The ability of linked SOMs to detect emergent properties from multiple types of highly-dimensional genomic data with very different signal properties opens new avenues for integrative analysis of heterogeneous data.
Trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type I (TRPSI) is a rare disorder that causes distinctive ectodermal, facial, and skeletal features affecting the hair (tricho-), nose (rhino-), and fingers and toes (phalangeal) and is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. TRPSI is caused by loss of function variants in TRPS1, involved in the regulation of chondrocyte and perichondrium development. Pathogenic variants in TRPS1 include missense mutations and deletions with variable breakpoints, with only a single instance of an intragenic duplication reported to date. Here we report an affected individual presenting with a classic TRPSI phenotype who is heterozygous for a de novo intragenic ∼36.3-kbp duplication affecting exons 2-4 of TRPS1 Molecular analysis revealed the duplication to be in direct tandem orientation affecting the splicing of TRPS1 The aberrant transcripts are predicted to produce a truncated TRPS1 missing the nuclear localization signal and the GATA and IKAROS-like zinc-finger domains resulting in functional TRPS1 haploinsufficiency. Our study identifies a novel intragenic tandem duplication of TRPS1 and highlights the importance of molecular characterization of intragenic duplications.
Alterations in normal regulation of gene expression is one of the key features of hematopoietic malignancies. In order to gain insight into the mechanisms that regulate gene expression in these diseases, we dissected the role of the Ikaros protein in leukemia. Ikaros is a DNA-binding, zinc finger protein that functions as a transcriptional regulator and a tumor suppressor in leukemia. The use of ChIP-seq, RNA-seq, and ATAC-seq-coupled with functional experiments-revealed that Ikaros regulates both the global epigenomic landscape and epigenetic signature at promoter regions of its target genes. Casein kinase II (CK2), an oncogenic kinase that is overexpressed in leukemia, directly phosphorylates Ikaros at multiple, evolutionarily-conserved residues. Phosphorylation of Ikaros impairs the protein's ability to regulate both the transcription of its target genes and global epigenetic landscape in leukemia. Treatment of leukemia cells with a specific inhibitor of CK2 restores Ikaros function, resulting in cytotoxicity of leukemia cells. Here, we review the mechanisms through which the CK2-Ikaros signaling axis regulates the global epigenomic landscape and expression of genes that control cellular proliferation in leukemia.
An 11-year-old male patient with the deletion of IKZF1 (Ikaros family zinc finger 1) and positive Breakpoint Cluster Region-C-Abelson oncogene 1(BCR-ABL1) acute lymphoblastic leukemia developed mucositis, gastrointestinal toxicity, hepatotoxicity, myelosuppression, and severe dermatologic toxicity during the first and second courses of high-dose methotrexate. The patient recovered completely after therapy. However, intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) occurred following oral methotrexate at a dose of 25 mg/m2 in maintenance treatment, and he had neurological sequelae including hemiplegic paralysis.
BACKGROUND: Associations between IKZF1 gene variants and Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) was recently reported. We examined whether the common IKZF1 polymorphisms rs4132601 T/G and rs111978267 A/G are associated with ALL among a Tunisian pediatric cohort.METHODS: This case-control study involved 170 patients with ALL and 150 control subjects. SNP genotyping was performed by TaqMan® SNP Genotyping Assay.RESULTS: The minor allele G of IKZF1 gene polymorphism rs4132601 T/G was significantly higher in ALL cases than in control subjects (P = 0.029), with 1.54-fold increased risk of ALL. The association of rs4132601 with ALL was seen under co-dominant (P = 0.009), recessive (P = 0.006), and additive (P = 0.027) genetic models, of which the co-dominant (P = 0.027) and recessive (P = 0.027) association remained significant after adjusting for covariates, and False Discovery Rate correction. In contrast, no association was noted for rs111978267 variant. Two-locus (rs4132601-rs11978267) IKZF1 haplotype analysis demonstrated association of GA (P = 0.053), with increased ALL risk [OR (95% CI) = 1.58 (1.00-2.51)], which remained significant after controlling for key covariates [aP = 0.046; aOR (95% CI) = 1.61 (1.01-2.57)].CONCLUSION: We demonstrated the association of IKZF1 polymorphism rs4132601 T/G with increased risk of ALL among Tunisian pediatric cohort, with altered phenotypic changes among ALL patients.
Author information:(1)Department of Nanoparticle Translational Research, Tokyo Medical University.(2)PRESTO, JST.
The establishment of a diverse B cell antigen receptor (BCR) repertoire by V(D)J recombination also generates autoreactive B cells. Anergy is one tolerance mechanism; it renders autoreactive B cells insensitive to stimulation by self-antigen, whereas Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling can reactivate anergic B cells. Here, we describe a critical role of the transcription factor Ikaros in controlling BCR anergy and TLR signaling. Mice with specific deletion of Ikaros in mature B cells developed systemic autoimmunity. Ikaros regulated many anergy-associated genes, including Zfp318, which is implicated in the attenuation of BCR responsiveness by promoting immunoglobulin D expression in anergic B cells. TLR signaling was hyperactive in Ikaros-deficient B cells, which failed to upregulate feedback inhibitors of the MyD88-nuclear factor κB signaling pathway. Systemic inflammation was lost on expression of a non-self-reactive BCR or loss of MyD88 in Ikaros-deficient B cells. Thus, Ikaros acts as a guardian preventing autoimmunity by promoting BCR anergy and restraining TLR signaling.
The mechanisms that determine the commitment of thymic epithelial precursors to the two major thymic epithelial cell lineages, cTECs and mTECs, remain unknown. Here we show that FoxN1 nu mutation, which abolishes thymic epithelium differentiation, results in the formation of a tubular branched structure according to a typical branching morphogenesis and tubulogenesis developmental pattern. In the presence of FoxN1, in alymphoid NSG and fetal Ikaros-/- thymi, there is no lumen formation and only partial apical differentiation. This initiates cortex-medulla differentiation inducing expression of medullary genes in the apically differentiating cells and of cortical genes in the non-apically differentiating cells, which will definitely differentiate in wt and postnatal Ikaros-/- mice. Therefore, the thymus development is based on a branching morphogenesis and tubulogenesis developmental pattern: FoxN1 expression in the thymic primordium inhibits tubulogenesis and induces the expression of genes involved in TEC differentiation, which culminates with the expression of functional cell markers, i.e., MHCII, CD80, Aire in both postnatal Ikaros-/- and WT thymi after arrival of lymphoid progenitor cells.
India is the second largest fish producing country in the world with production of 12.6 million tonnes (mt) in 2017-18, and Indian major carps (IMCs) contribute bulk of this fish production. Catla, Catla catla is the fastest growing species among IMCs. However, the survival rate of catla during larval rearing is normally lower than the other IMCs i.e rohu Labeo rohita, and mrigal Cirrhinus mrigala. Continuous efforts are devoted for the identification of nutritional and environmental requirements of fish larvae in order to reduce hatchery mortalities. However, very little information is available regarding physiology of the immune system, especially during the late larval and juvenile stages. Hence, understanding the ontogenetic development of immune-relevant genes in the larval stages of catla will serve as the markers for the development of immune competence and thereby, will be beneficial in developing effective immune intervention strategies. In the present study, expression profiles of some of the important innate (IL-1β, IL-10, iNOS and C3) and adaptive immune (RAG-1, Ikaros, IgM and IgZ) genes during ontogenetic developmental stages and in different tissues of catla were investigated using quantitative real-time PCR. The results revealed that immune genes IL-1β, C3, IgM and IgZ were detected in the unfertilized eggs indicating their maternal inheritance. Immune genes, IL-1β, IL-10 and iNOS were expressed significantly during initial larval developmental stages whereas C3, RAG-1, Ikaros, IgM and IgZ showed significant expression during advanced stages of larval development in catla i.e. from 23 days post hatch (dph). Study of tissue distribution pattern of the genes indicated that innate immune genes were ubiquitously expressed in different tissues with varying degree of expression, whereas adaptive immune genes were predominantly expressed in lymphoid organs of catla. The information thus generated will improve knowledge on the maturation of the immune system in catla and will aid in deciding the appropriate age for vaccination in this teleost species.
HIV-1 infection expands large populations of late-stage differentiated CD8 T cells that may persist long after viral escape from TCR recognition. In this study, we investigated whether such CD8 T cell populations can perform unconventional innate-like antiviral effector functions. Chronic untreated HIV-1 infection was associated with elevated numbers of CD45RA+CD57+ terminal effector CD8 T cells expressing FcγRIIIA (CD16). The FcγRIIIA+ CD8 T cells displayed a distinctive transcriptional profile between conventional CD8 T cells and NK cells, characterized by high levels of IKZF2 and low expression of IL7R This transcriptional profile translated into a distinct NKp80+ IL-7Rα- surface phenotype with high expression of the Helios transcription factor. Interestingly, the FcγRIIIA+ CD8 T cells mediated HIV-specific Ab-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) activity at levels comparable with NK cells on a per cell basis. The FcγRIIIA+ CD8 T cells were highly activated in a manner that correlated positively with expansion of the CD8 T cell compartment and with plasma levels of soluble mediators of antiviral immunity and inflammation such as IP-10, TNF, IL-6, and TNFRII. The frequency of FcγRIIIA+ CD8 T cells persisted as patients initiated suppressive antiretroviral therapy, although their activation levels declined. These data indicate that terminally differentiated effector CD8 T cells acquire enhanced innate cell-like characteristics during chronic viral infection and suggest that HIV-specific ADCC is a function CD8 T cells use to target HIV-infected cells. Furthermore, as the FcγRIIIA+ CD8 T cells persist in treatment, they contribute significantly to the ADCC-capable effector cell pool in patients on antiretroviral therapy.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells are a subset of CD4+ T cells that are critical for the maintenance of self-tolerance. The forkhead box transcription factor Foxp3 is a master regulator for the Treg phenotype and function and its expression is essential in Treg cells, as the loss of Foxp3 results in lethal autoimmunity. Two major subsets of Treg cells have been described in vivo; thymus-derived Treg (tTreg) cells that develop in the thymus and peripherally induced Treg (pTreg) cells that are derived from conventional CD4+  Foxp3- T cells and are converted in peripheral tissues to cells that express Foxp3 and acquire suppressive ability. The transcription factor Helios, a member of the Ikaros transcription factor family, is expressed in 60-70% of Treg cells in both mouse and man, and is believed to be a marker of tTreg cells. In this review, we discuss the role and function of Helios in Treg cells, the controversy surrounding the use of Helios as a marker of tTreg cells, and how Helios controls specific aspects of the Treg cell program.
Ikzf1 is a Krüppel-like zinc-finger transcription factor that plays indispensable roles in T and B cell development. Although the function of Ikzf1 has been studied extensively, the molecular mechanism underlying T lymphopoiesis remains incompletely defined during the embryonic stage. Here we report that the genetic ablation of ikzf1 in mutant zebrafish resulted in abrogated embryonic T lymphopoiesis. This was ascribed to impaired thymic migration, proliferation, and differentiation of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs). Ccr9a and Irf4a, two indispensable factors in T lymphopoiesis, were the direct targets of Ikzf1 and were absent in the ikzf1 mutants. Genetic deletion of either ccr9a or irf4a in the corresponding mutant embryos led to obvious T cell development deficiency, which was mainly caused by disrupted thymic migration of HSPCs. Restoration of ccr9a in ikzf1 mutants obviously promoted HSPC thymus homing. However, the HSPCs then failed to differentiate into T cells. Additional replenishment of irf4a efficiently induced HSPC proliferation and T cell differentiation. Our findings further demonstrate that Ikzf1 regulates embryonic T lymphopoiesis via Ccr9 and Irf4 and provide new insight into the genetic network of T lymphocyte development.
One of the most frequently mutated proteins in human B-lineage leukemia is the transcription factor PAX5. These mutations often result in partial rather than complete loss of function of the transcription factor. While the functional dose of PAX5 has a clear connection to human malignancy, there is limited evidence for that heterozygote loss of PAX5 have a dramatic effect on the development and function of B-cell progenitors. One possible explanation comes from the finding that PAX5 mutated B-ALL often display complex karyotypes and additional mutations. Thus, PAX5 might be one component of a larger transcription factor network targeted in B-ALL. To investigate the functional network associated with PAX5 we used BioID technology to isolate proteins associated with this transcription factor in the living cell. This identified 239 proteins out of which several could be found mutated in human B-ALL. Most prominently we identified the commonly mutated IKZF1 and RUNX1, involved in the formation of ETV6-AML1 fusion protein, among the interaction partners. ChIP- as well as PLAC-seq analysis supported the idea that these factors share a multitude of target genes in human B-ALL cells. Gene expression analysis of mouse models and primary human leukemia suggested that reduced function of PAX5 increased the ability of an oncogenic form of IKZF1 or ETV6-AML to modulate gene expression. Our data reveals that PAX5 belong to a regulatory network frequently targeted by multiple mutations in B-ALL shedding light on the molecular interplay in leukemia cells.
SLAMF7 is expressed mainly on multiple myeloma (MM) cells and considered an ideal target for immunotherapeutic approaches. Indeed, elotuzumab, an anti-SLAMF7 antibody, is used for the treatment of MM in combination with immunomodulatory drugs. SLAMF7 is cleaved via unknown mechanisms and detected as a soluble form (sSLAMF7) exclusively in the serum of MM patients; however, little is known about the role of sSLAMF7 in MM biology. In this study, we found that sSLAMF7 enhanced the growth of MM cells via homophilic interaction with surface SLAMF7 and subsequent activation of the SHP-2 and ERK signaling pathways. Elotuzumab suppressed sSLAMF7-induced MM cell growth both in vitro and in vivo. Promoter analyses identified IKZF1 (Ikaros) as a pivotal transcriptional activator of the SLAMF7 gene. Pharmacological targeting of Ikaros by lenalidomide and its analog pomalidomide downregulated SLAMF7 expression and ameliorated the response of MM cells to sSLAMF7. Elotuzumab blocked the growth-promoting function of sSLAMF7 when combined with lenalidomide in a murine xenograft model. Neutralization of sSLAMF7 is a novel antimyeloma mechanism of elotuzumab, which is enhanced by immunomodulatory drugs via downregulation of surface SLAMF7 expression on MM cells. These findings may provide important information for the optimal use of elotuzumab in MM treatment.
Comment in    Blood. 2019 Oct 10;134(15):1199-1200.
Minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment is an essential tool in contemporary acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) protocols, being used for therapeutic decisions such as hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in high-risk patients. However, a significant proportion of adult ALL patients with negative MRD still relapse suggesting that other factors (ie, molecular alterations) must be considered in order to identify those patients with high risk of disease progression. We have identified partial IKZF1 gene deletions and CDKN2A/B deletions as markers of disease recurrence and poor survival in a series of uniformly treated adolescent and adult Philadelphia chromosome-negative B-cell progenitor ALL patients treated according to the Programa Español de Tratamientos en Hematología protocols. Importantly, CDKN2A/B deletions showed independent significance of MRD at the end of induction, which points out the need for treatment intensification in these patients despite being MRD-negative after induction therapy.
The recombination mediated by recombination activating gene (RAG) is not only the dominant mutational process but also the predominant driver of oncogenic genomic rearrangement in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). It is further responsible for leukemic clonal evolution. In this study, significant RAG1 increase is observed in the subsets of B-ALL patients, and high expression of RAG1 is observed to be correlated with high proliferation markers. IKZF1-encoded protein, IKAROS, directly binds to the RAG1 promoter and regulates RAG1 expression in leukemic cells. CK2 inhibitor by increasing IKAROS activity significantly suppresses RAG1 expression in ALL in an IKAROS-dependent manner. Patients with IKZF1 deletion have significantly higher expression of RAG1 compared to that without IKZF1 deletion. CK2 inhibitor treatment also results in an increase in IKZF1 binding to the RAG1 promoter and suppression of RAG1 expression in primary ALL cells. Taken together, these results demonstrate that RAG1 high expression is associated with high proliferation markers in B-ALL. Our data for the first time proved that RAG1 expression is directly suppressed by IKAROS. Our results also reveal drive oncogenesis of B-ALL is driven by high expression of RAG1 with IKAROS dysfunction together, which have significance in an integrated prognostic model for adult ALL.
Erratum for    Front Immunol. 2019 Apr 16;10:568.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology, Fujian Institute of Hematology, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou 350001, China. 1354113723@qq.com.
BACKGROUND: Ikaros family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) is a transcription factor with an important role in controlling hematopoietic proliferation and function, particularly lymphoid cell differentiation. It was previously shown that various mechanisms and expression patterns of Ikaros are linked to a variety of cancers. We hypothesized that aberrant methylation (hypomethylation) of the IKZF1 promoter region might be one of the causes of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). In B-ALL patients, an increased expression of this gene is a potential cause of B-cell differentiation arrest and proliferation induction. Therefore, as more than 90% of patients with ALL are <15 years old, we investigated the methylation pattern of the IKZF1 promoter in childhood B-ALL.METHODS: Twenty-five newly diagnosed B-ALL cases were included (all younger than 15 yr). In addition, we selected 25 healthy age- and sex-matched children as the control group. We collected the blood samples in EDTA-containing tubes and isolated lymphocytes from whole blood using Ficoll 1.077 Lymphosep. Next, we extracted genomic DNA with the phenol/chloroform method. Two microgram of DNA per sample was treated with sodium bisulfite using the EpiTect Bisulfite Kit, followed by an assessment of DNA methylation by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of the bisulfite-modified genomic DNA.RESULTS: Our data highlighted a hypomethylated status of the IKZF1 promoter in the ALL cases (96% of the cases were unmethylated). In contrast, the control group samples were partially methylated (68%).CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated a hypomethylated pattern of the IKZF1 promoter region in childhood B-ALL, which might underlie the aberrant Ikaros expression patterns that were previously linked to this malignancy.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a chronic form of leukemia that originates from an abnormal expansion of CD5+ B-1 cells. Deregulation in the BCR signaling is associated with B-cell transformation. Contrariwise to B-2 cells, BCR engagement in B-1 cells results in low proliferation rate and increased apoptosis population, whereas overactivation may be associated with lymphoproliferative disorders. It has been demonstrated that several transcription factors that are involved in the B cell development play a role in the regulation of BCR function. Among them, Ikaros is considered an essential regulator of lymphoid differentiation and activation. Several reports suggest that Ikaros expression is deregulated in different forms of leukemia. Herein, we demonstrated that CLL cells show decreased Ikaros expression and abnormal cytoplasmic cell localization. These alterations were also observed in radioresistant B-1 cells, which present high proliferative activity, suggesting that abnormal localization of Ikaros could determine its loss of function. Furthermore, Ikaros knockdown increased the expression of BCR pathway components in murine B-1 cells, such as Lyn, Blnk, and CD19. Additionally, in the absence of Ikaros, B-1 cells become responsive to BCR stimulus, increasing cell proliferation even in the absence of antigen stimulation. These results suggested that Ikaros is an important controller of B-1 cell proliferation by interfering with the BCR activity. Therefore, altered Ikaros expression in CLL or radioresistant B-1 cells could determine a responsive status of BCR to self-antigens, which would culminate in the clonal expansion of B-1 cells.
Erratum in    J Autoimmun. 2020 Nov;114:102544.
The NuRD complex contains both chromatin remodeling and histone deacetylase activities. Mice lacking the MTA2 subunit of NuRD show developmental defects in pro-B, pre-B, immature B, and marginal zone B cells, and abnormal germinal center B cell differentiation during immune responses. Mta2 inactivation also causes a derepression of Igll1 and VpreB1 genes in pre-B cells. Furthermore, MTA2/NuRD interacts directly with AIOLOS/IKAROS and shows a striking overlap with AIOLOS/IKAROS target genes in human pre-B cells, suggesting a functional inter-dependence between MTA2/NuRD and AIOLOS. Mechanistically, MTA2 deficiency in mice leads to increased H3K27 acetylation at both Igll1 and VpreB1 promoters. Gene profiling analyses also identify distinct MTA2-dependent transcription programs in pro-B and pre-B cells. In addition, we find a strong synergy between MTA2 and OCA-B in repressing Igll1 and VpreB1 at the pre-B cell stage, and in regulating both the pre-B to immature B transition and splenic B cell development.
We derived a mouse model in which a mutant form of Nbn/Nbs1mid8 (hereafter Nbnmid8) exhibits severely impaired binding to the Mre11-Rad50 core of the Mre11 complex. The Nbnmid8 allele was expressed exclusively in hematopoietic lineages (in Nbn-/mid8vav mice). Unlike Nbnflox/floxvav mice with Nbn deficiency in the bone marrow, Nbn-/mid8vav mice were viable. Nbn-/mid8vav mice hematopoiesis was profoundly defective, exhibiting reduced cellularity of thymus and bone marrow, and stage-specific blockage of B cell development. Within 6 mo, Nbn-/mid8 mice developed highly penetrant T cell leukemias. Nbn-/mid8vav leukemias recapitulated mutational features of human T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), containing mutations in NOTCH1, TP53, BCL6, BCOR, and IKZF1, suggesting that Nbnmid8 mice may provide a venue to examine the relationship between the Mre11 complex and oncogene activation in the hematopoietic compartment. Genomic analysis of Nbn-/mid8vav malignancies showed focal amplification of 9qA2, causing overexpression of MRE11 and CHK1 We propose that overexpression of MRE11 compensates for the metastable Mre11-Nbnmid8 interaction, and that selective pressure for overexpression reflects the essential role of Nbn in promoting assembly and activity of the Mre11 complex.
Author information:(1)Department of Child Health and Development, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University.(2)Laboratory of Lymphocyte Activation and Susceptibility to EBV infection, Institut National de la Sante et de la Recherche Medicale UMR 1163.
Nonselective histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have therapeutic effects, but exhibit dose‑limiting toxicities in patients with multiple myeloma (MM). The present study investigated the interaction between the HDAC6 inhibitor, A452, and immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) on dexamethasone (Dex)‑sensitive and ‑resistant MM cells compared with the current clinically tested HDAC6 inhibitor, ACY‑1215. It was shown that the combination of the HDAC6‑selective inhibitor, A452, with either of the IMiDs tested (lenalidomide or pomalidomide) led to the synergistic inhibition of cell growth, a decrease in the viability of MM cells and in an increase in the levels of apoptosis. Furthermore, enhanced cell death was associated with the inactivation of AKT and extracellular signal‑regulated kinase (ERK)1/2. Of note, A452 in combination with IMiDs induced synergistic MM cytotoxicity without altering the expression of cereblon and thereby, the synergistic downregulation of IKAROS family zinc finger (IKZF)1/3, c‑Myc and interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4). Furthermore, combined treatment with A452 and IMiDs induced the synergistic upregulation of PD‑L1. More importantly, this combination treatment was effective in the Dex‑resistant MM cells. Overall, the findings of this study indicate that A452 is more effective as an anticancer agent than ACY‑1215. Taken together, these findings suggest that a combination of the HDAC6‑selective inhibitor, A452, and IMiDs may prove to be beneficial in the treatment of patients with MM.
Aiolos is a transcription factor of the Ikaros family. It is expressed in lymphocytes and plays a vital role in the development of lymphatic system. Recently, Aiolos has been found to be ectopically expressed in lung cancer cells and promotes cancer metastasis through repression of p66Shc expression. Blocking DNA-binding activity of Aiolos may benefit cancer patients by preventing further metastasis. However, it is not clear which sequence is essential for its DNA binding. In this study, we found that N160 is a key amino acid to determine the DNA-binding activity of Aiolos. Mutation of N160A resulted in loss of peripheral heterochromatin localization and dissociation with its target gene. Accordingly, Aiolos with N160A could not change the expression of its target genes. Thus, we identified the amino acid (N160) that is essential for Aiolos binding to DNA. Anat Rec, 302:2014-2019, 2019. © 2019 American Association for Anatomy.
Targeted protein degradation via cereblon (CRBN), a substrate receptor of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, is an increasingly important strategy in various clinical settings, in which the substrate specificity of CRBN is altered via the binding of small-molecule effectors. To date, such effectors are derived from thalidomide and confer a broad substrate spectrum that is far from being fully characterized. Here, we employed a rational and modular approach to design novel and minimalistic CRBN effectors. In this approach, we took advantage of the binding modes of hydrolyzed metabolites of several thalidomide-derived effectors, which we elucidated via crystallography. These yielded key insights for the optimization of the minimal core binding moiety and its linkage to a chemical moiety that imparts substrate specificity. Based on this scaffold, we present a first active de-novo CRBN effector that is able to degrade the neo-substrate IKZF3 in the cell culture.
CD4+ T helper cells are capable of differentiating into a number of effector subsets that perform diverse functions during adaptive immune responses. The differentiation of each of these subsets is governed, in large part, by environmental cytokine signals and the subsequent activation of downstream, cell-intrinsic transcription factor networks. Ikaros zinc finger (IkZF) transcription factors are known regulators of immune cell development, including that of CD4+ T cell subsets. Over the past decade, members of the IkZF family have also been implicated in the differentiation and function of individual T helper cell subsets, including T helper 1 (TH1), TH2, TH17, T follicular (TFH), and T regulatory (TREG) cells. Now, an increasing body of literature suggests that the distinct cell-specific cytokine environments responsible for the development of each subset result in differential expression of IkZF factors across T helper populations. Intriguingly, recent studies suggest that IkZF members influence T helper subset differentiation in a feed-forward fashion through the regulation of these same cytokine-signaling pathways. Here, we review the increasingly prominent role for IkZF transcription factors in the differentiation of effector CD4+ T helper cell subsets.
We compared clinical validity of two non-invasive prenatal screening (NIPS) methods for fetal trisomies 13, 18, 21, and monosomy X. We recruited prospectively 2203 women at high risk of fetal aneuploidy and 1807 at baseline risk. Three-hundred and twenty-nine euploid samples were randomly removed. The remaining 1933 high risk and 1660 baseline-risk plasma aliquots were assigned randomly between four laboratories and tested with two index NIPS tests, blind to maternal variables and pregnancy outcomes. The two index tests used massively parallel shotgun sequencing (semiconductor-based and optical-based). The reference standard for all fetuses was invasive cytogenetic analysis or clinical examination at birth and postnatal follow-up. For each chromosome of interest, chromosomal ratios were calculated (number of reads for chromosome/total number of reads). Euploid samples' mean chromosomal ratio coefficients of variation were 0.48 (T21), 0.34 (T18), and 0.31 (T13). According to the reference standard, there were 155 cases of T21, 49 T18, 8 T13 and 22 45,X. Using a fetal fraction ≥4% to call results and a chromosomal ratio z-score of ≥3 to report a positive result, detection rates (DR), and false positive rates (FPR) were not statistically different between platforms: mean DR 99% (T21), 100%(T18, T13); 79%(45,X); FPR < 0.3% for T21, T18, T13, and <0.6% for 45,X. Both methods' negative predictive values in high-risk pregnancies were >99.8%, except for 45,X(>99.6%). Threshold analysis in high-risk pregnancies with different fetal fractions and z-score cut-offs suggested that a z-score cutoff to 3.5 for positive results improved test accuracy. Both sequencing platforms showed equivalent and excellent clinical validity.
Comment in    Blood. 2019 Dec 5;134(23):2000-2002.
Erratum in    Nat Immunol. 2019 Aug 6;:
Thalidomide, well known for its potent teratogenicity, has been re-evaluated as a clinically effective drug for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Although the direct target of thalidomide had been unclear until recently, we identified cereblon (CRBN) as a primary direct target of this drug by affinity purification using ferrite glycidyl methacrylate (FG) beads in 2010. CRBN functions as a unique substrate receptor of cullin-RING ligase 4 (CRL4). Various ligands including thalidomide bind to CRBN and alter substrate specificity depending on compound shape, resulting in multiple beneficial effects and/or teratogenicity. Lenalidomide, a thalidomide derivative approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), induces the degradation of onco-proteins such as Ikaros and casein kinase 1 alpha (CK1α), resulting in anti-cancer effects. Recently, novel CRBN-binding compounds have been developed and their mechanisms of action have been analyzed, including identification of CRBN-related ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2s). Moreover, the 3D structure of several CRBN-ligand-substrate complexes has been determined. Ligands were shown to work as a molecular glue between CRBN and its neosubstrate. In addition, investigators have been recently developing CRBN-based proteolysis-targeting chimeras to achieve degradation of proteins of interest. In this review, the molecular mechanisms of classical and new CRBN-based drugs are described, and recent advances in this field are discussed.
Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) is considered as a high risk of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are tailored drug for Ph+ ALL, but Ik6 is associated with TKI resistance and poor outcome of Ph+ ALL. In the present study, we investigated the potential benefit of combination therapy with imatinib and Huaier extract, a traditional Chinese medicine, in Ik6+ Ph+ ALL. The Ik6+ Ph+ -ALL cell lines Sup-B15 or BV173 were treated with Huaier extract, imatinib or the combination of the two. Analysis of cell proliferation showed that the combined treatment of imatinib and Huaier extract exhibited a greater effect on cell inhibition. Using flow cytometry and Western blot, enhanced effects on the induction of cell apoptosis were observed. The combination of the two drugs also exhibited a significant effect in decreasing the protein and enzymatic activity levels of BCR-ABL. The molecular mechanisms may be involved in BCR-ABL related pathways, including the inactivation of p-AKT, p-STAT5, p-mTOR and p-Lyn. Consistent with the in vitro results, the combination of Huaier extract and imatinib inhibit the growth and infiltration of xenografted tumors. Taken together, our findings show that Huaier extract enhances the anticancer efficacy of imatinib in Ik6+ Ph+ ALL Further, it also provides a potential clinical application in the treatment of refractory Ph+ ALL.
Targeted protein degradation has become an exciting new paradigm in drug discovery with the potential to target new protein families for therapeutic intervention. In 2010, Hiroshi Handa and colleagues discovered that the drug thalidomide binds to the protein cereblon, a component of the CRL4CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase. In contrast to the heterobifunctional small molecule degraders reported in the literature, thalidomide is of very low molecular weight (∼258Da) with molecular properties (solubility, metabolic stability, permeability etc) that readily support pharmaceutical dosing. It was subsequently shown that thalidomide and the analogues lenalidomide and pomalidomide are able to degrade the transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos. CK1α and GSPT1 were subsequently identified as substrates for specific ligands, indicating that this molecular class could be tuned for selective protein degradation. Structural studies showed that the thalidomide analogues bind to a shallow hydrophobic pocket on the surface of cereblon, and scaffold a protein-protein interaction with target proteins. Target proteins do not need any affinity for the cereblon modulators, and as such undruggable, or even unligandable, proteins can be targeted for degradation. A similar mechanism of action was subsequently identified for the clinical molecule indisulam, indicating that low molecular weight degraders are not unique to cereblon. The groundbreaking work on cereblon represents a case study for the discovery and characterization of low molecular weight protein degraders for other ligases.
The prognosis of multiple myeloma was quite poor in the last century, but it has significantly improved with the incorporation of novel agents, immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) and proteasome inhibitors. Thalidomide was first developed as a sedative in 1950s, but it was withdrawn from the market because of teratogenicity. In 1990s, however, thalidomide received attention due to the discovery of its anticancer potential derived from antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory activities, and its therapeutic effect on myeloma. In 2006, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the use of thalidomide under strict control for the treatment of multiple myeloma. After that, two new IMiDs, lenalidomide and pomalidomide, were developed for the sake of more antitumor activity and less adverse events than thalidomide. The molecular mechanism of action of IMiDs remained unclear for a long time until 2010 when the protein cereblon (CRBN) was identified as a primary direct target. IMiDs binds to CRBN and alters the substrate specificity of the CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, resulting in breakdown of intrinsic downstream proteins such as IKZF1 (Ikaros) and IKZF3 (Aiolos). There are many clinical trials of multiple myeloma using IMiDs under various conditions, and most of them show the efficacy of IMiDs. Nowadays lenalidomide plays a central role in both newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory settings, mainly in combination with other novel agents such as proteasome inhibitors and monoclonal antibodies. This review presents an overview of recent advances in immunomodulatory drugs in the treatment of multiple myeloma.
The immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) thalidomide and its analogs, lenalidomide and pomalidomide, all FDA approved drugs for the treatment of multiple myeloma, induce ubiquitination and degradation of the lymphoid transcription factors Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3) via the cereblon (CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase for proteasomal degradation. IMiDs have recently been utilized for the generation of bifunctional proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) to target other proteins for ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation by the CRBN E3 ligase. We designed and synthesized pomalidomide-based homobifunctional PROTACs and analyzed their ability to induce self-directed ubiquitination and degradation of CRBN. Here, CRBN serves as both, the E3 ubiquitin ligase and the target at the same time. The homo-PROTAC compound 8 degrades CRBN with a high potency with only minimal remaining effects on IKZF1 and IKZF3. CRBN inactivation by compound 8 had no effect on cell viability and proliferation of different multiple myeloma cell lines. This homo-PROTAC abrogates the effects of IMiDs in multiple myeloma cells. Therefore, our homodimeric pomalidomide-based compounds may help to identify CRBN's endogenous substrates and physiological functions and investigate the molecular mechanism of IMiDs.
The Ikaros family of transcription factors (TFs) are important regulators of lymphocyte function. However, their roles in human innate lymphoid cell (ILC) function remain unclear. Here, we found that Ikaros (IKZF1) is expressed by all ILC subsets, including NK cells, in blood, tonsil, and gut, while Helios (IKZF2) is preferentially expressed by ILC3 in tonsil and gut. Aiolos (IKZF3) followed the expression pattern of T-bet and Eomes, being predominantly expressed by ILC1 and NK cells. Differentiation of IFN-γ-producing ILC1 and NK cells from ILC3 by IL-1β plus IL-12-stimulation was associated with upregulation of T-bet and Aiolos. Selective degradation of Aiolos and Ikaros by lenalidomide suppressed ILC1 and NK cell differentiation and expression of ILC1 and NK cell-related transcripts (LEF1, PRF1, GRZB, CD244, NCR3, and IRF8). In line with reduced ILC1/NK cell differentiation, we observed an increase in the expression of the ILC3-related TF Helios, as well as ILC3 transcripts (TNFSF13B, IL22, NRP1, and RORC) and in the frequency of IL-22 producing ILC3 in cultures with IL-1β and IL-23. These data suggest that suppression of Aiolos and Ikaros expression inhibits ILC1 and NK cell differentiation while ILC3 function is maintained. Hence, our results open up for new possibilities in targeting Ikaros family TFs for modulation of type 1/3 immunity in inflammation and cancer.
Coordinated induction, but also repression, of genes are key to normal differentiation. Although the role of lineage-specific transcription regulators has been studied extensively, their functional integration with chromatin remodelers, one of the key enzymatic machineries that control chromatin accessibility, remains ill-defined. Here we investigate the role of Mi-2β, a SNF-2-like nucleosome remodeler and key component of the nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase (NuRD) complex in early B cells. Inactivation of Mi-2β arrested differentiation at the large pre-B-cell stage and caused derepression of cell adhesion and cell migration signaling factors by increasing chromatin access at poised enhancers and chromosome architectural elements. Mi-2β also supported IL-7R signaling, survival, and proliferation by repressing negative effectors of this pathway. Importantly, overexpression of Bcl2, a mitochondrial prosurvival gene and target of IL-7R signaling, partly rescued the differentiation block caused by Mi-2β loss. Mi-2β stably associated with chromatin sites that harbor binding motifs for IKAROS and EBF1 and physically associated with these transcription factors both on and off chromatin. Notably, Mi-2β shared loss-of-function cellular and molecular phenotypes with IKAROS and EBF1, albeit in a distinct fashion. Thus, the nucleosome remodeler Mi-2β promotes pre-B-cell differentiation by providing repression capabilities to distinct lineage-specific transcription factor-based regulatory networks.
BACKGROUND: Helios is important for functional and phenotype stability of regulatory T cells (Tregs). However, the role of Helios in autoimmune diseases and its regulation remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of Helios+ Tregs in myasthenia gravis (MG) and glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor (GITR) and its ligand (GITRL) in the modulation of Helios.METHOD: Multicolor flow cytometry was performed to analyze Helios+ Tregs in peripheral blood from MG patients and healthy donors (HDs). Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to determine the levels of soluble GITRL/GITR in plasma. Tregs were isolated via magnetic separation and treated with recombinant GITRL and GITR-Fc. Membrane GITRL on Tregs and expression of Helios and other markers (FOXP3, CD25, CD39, CTLA-4, PD-L1 and IL-10) involved in immunosuppressive activity were determined by flow cytometry.RESULT: Both Helios+ Tregs and soluble GITR were decreased in generalized MG (GMG) patients (n = 14), compared with HDs (n = 14) and ocular MG (OMG) patients (n = 16). Helios+ Tregs possessed greater immunosuppressive capacity compared to Helios- Tregs. Further analysis indicates soluble GITR was negatively correlated with quantitative MG score and promoted Helios expression and enhanced function of Tregs independently of membrane GITRL.CONCLUSION: This work demonstrates abnormal changes in Helios+ Tregs and soluble GITR in MG, as well as direct regulation of Helios by GITR in the context of Tregs. This work provides new insight into the role of GITR in the regulatory pathway of Helios and pathogenesis of MG.
Author information:(1)Sechenov Institute of Evolutionary Physiology and Biochemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, 194223 Russia.(2)Peter the Great St. Petersburg Polytechnic University, St. Petersburg, 195251 Russia.(3)ekmyasnikova@yandex.ru.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is the most common type of childhood cancer worldwide. Mexico City has one of the highest incidences and mortality rates of this cancer. It has previously been recognized that chromosomal translocations are important in cancer etiology. Specific fusion genes have been considered as important treatment targets in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The present research aimed at the identification and characterization of novel fusion genes with potential clinical implications in Mexican children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The RNA-sequencing approach was used. Four fusion genes not previously reported were identified: CREBBP-SRGAP2B, DNAH14-IKZF1, ETV6-SNUPN, ETV6-NUFIP1. Although a fusion gene is not sufficient to cause leukemia, it could be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. Notably, these new translocations were found in genes encoding for hematopoietic transcription factors which are known to play an important role in leukemogenesis and disease prognosis such as IKZF1, CREBBP, and ETV6. In addition, they may have an impact on the prognosis of Mexican pediatric patients with ALL, with the potential to be included in the current risk stratification schemes or used as therapeutic targets.
Ikaros encodes a transcription factor that functions as a tumor suppressor in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). The mechanisms through which Ikaros regulates gene expression and cellular proliferation in T-ALL are unknown. Re-introduction of Ikaros into Ikaros-null T-ALL cells resulted in cessation of cellular proliferation and induction of T-cell differentiation. We performed dynamic, global, epigenomic, and gene expression analyses to determine the mechanisms of Ikaros tumor suppressor activity. Our results identified novel Ikaros functions in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression: Ikaros directly regulates de novo formation and depletion of enhancers, de novo formation of active enhancers and activation of poised enhancers; Ikaros directly induces the formation of super-enhancers; and Ikaros demonstrates pioneering activity by directly regulating chromatin accessibility. Dynamic analyses demonstrate the long-lasting effects of Ikaros DNA binding on enhancer activation, de novo formation of enhancers and super-enhancers, and chromatin accessibility. Our results establish that Ikaros' tumor suppressor function occurs via global regulation of the enhancer and super-enhancer landscape and through pioneering activity. Expression analysis identified a large number of novel signaling pathways that are directly regulated by Ikaros and Ikaros-induced enhancers, and that are responsible for the cessation of proliferation and induction of T-cell differentiation in T-ALL cells.
We report a novel variant in IKZF1 associated with IKAROS haploinsufficiency in a patient with familial immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). IKAROS, encoded by the IKZF1 gene, is a hematopoietic zinc-finger transcription factor that can directly bind to DNA. We show that the identified IKZF1 variant (p.His195Arg) alters a completely conserved histidine residue required for the folding of the third zinc-finger of IKAROS protein, leading to a loss of characteristic immunofluorescence nuclear staining pattern. In our case, genetic testing was essential for the diagnosis of IKAROS haploinsufficiency, of which known presentations include infections, aberrant hematopoiesis, leukemia, and age-related decrease in humoral immunity. Our family study underscores that, after infections, ITP is the second most common clinical manifestation of IKAROS haploinsufficiency.
Erratum in    Front Immunol. 2019 Jun 28;10:1490.
Multiple myeloma is a malignancy of antibody-secreting plasma cells. Most patients benefit from current therapies, however, 20% of patients relapse or die within two years and are deemed high risk. Here we analyze structural variants from 795 newly-diagnosed patients as part of the CoMMpass study. We report translocations involving the immunoglobulin lambda (IgL) locus are present in 10% of patients, and indicative of poor prognosis. This is particularly true for IgL-MYC translocations, which coincide with focal amplifications of enhancers at both loci. Importantly, 78% of IgL-MYC translocations co-occur with hyperdiploid disease, a marker of standard risk, suggesting that IgL-MYC-translocated myeloma is being misclassified. Patients with IgL-translocations fail to benefit from IMiDs, which target IKZF1, a transcription factor that binds the IgL enhancer at some of the highest levels in the myeloma epigenome. These data implicate IgL translocation as a driver of poor prognosis which may be due to IMiD resistance.
Monitoring tumour burden and therapeutic response through analyses of circulating cell-free tumour DNA (ctDNA) and extracellular RNA (exRNA) in multiple myeloma (MM) patients were performed in a Phase Ib trial of 24 relapsed/refractory patients receiving oral azacitidine in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone. Mutational characterisation of paired BM and PL samples at study entry identified that patients with a higher number of mutations or a higher mutational fractional abundance in PL had significantly shorter overall survival (OS) (p = 0.005 and p = 0.018, respectively). A decrease in ctDNA levels at day 5 of cycle 1 of treatment (C1D5) correlated with superior progression-free survival (PFS) (p = 0.017). Evaluation of exRNA transcripts of candidate biomarkers indicated that high CRBN levels coupled with low levels of SPARC at baseline were associated with shorter OS (p = 0.000003). IKZF1 fold-change <0.05 at C1D5 was associated with shorter PFS (p = 0.0051) and OS (p = 0.0001). Furthermore, patients with high baseline CRBN coupled with low fold-change at C1D5 were at the highest risk of progression (p = 0.0001). In conclusion, this exploratory analysis has provided the first demonstration in MM of ctDNA for predicting disease outcome and of the utility of exRNA as a biomarker of therapeutic response.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a progressive, chronic, even disabling systemic autoimmune disease. Imbalance between pathogenic immune cells and immunosuppressive cells is associated with the pathogenesis and development of RA and other autoimmune diseases. As Foxp3 is also expressed on activated CD4+ cells in the presence of inflammation, the identification of Treg cells in patients with RA remains a challenge.METHODS: Comprehensive analyses were carried out by Flow cytometry. Expression of Helios, CD226, T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains clinical samples and healthy controls.RESULTS: We have systemically examined three potential markers, Helios, CD226 and TIGIT, that are possibly related to Treg identification, and found that Helios expression on CD4+Foxp3+cells was decreased and negatively correlated with the disease activity of RA patients, while CD226 and TIGIT both showed elevated expression levels in CD4+Foxp3+cells in RA patients and they were not associated with disease activity of RA patients.CONCLUSION: Taken together, our findings indicate that CD4+CD25hiCD127low/-Foxp3+Helios+ may represent the real Treg cell population in patients with RA.
The differentiation of self-renewing progenitor cells requires not only the regulation of lineage- and developmental stage-specific genes but also the coordinated adaptation of housekeeping functions from a metabolically active, proliferative state toward quiescence. How metabolic and cell-cycle states are coordinated with the regulation of cell type-specific genes is an important question, because dissociation between differentiation, cell cycle, and metabolic states is a hallmark of cancer. Here, we use a model system to systematically identify key transcriptional regulators of Ikaros-dependent B cell-progenitor differentiation. We find that the coordinated regulation of housekeeping functions and tissue-specific gene expression requires a feedforward circuit whereby Ikaros down-regulates the expression of Myc. Our findings show how coordination between differentiation and housekeeping states can be achieved by interconnected regulators. Similar principles likely coordinate differentiation and housekeeping functions during progenitor cell differentiation in other cell lineages.
© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Insertional mutagenesis is a powerful means of identifying cancer drivers in animal models. We used the Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposon/transposase system to identify activated oncogenes in hematologic cancers in wild-type mice and mice that express a stabilized cyclin E protein (termed cyclin ET74AT393A). Cyclin E governs cell division and is misregulated in human cancers. Cyclin ET74AT393A mice develop ineffective erythropoiesis that resembles early-stage human myelodysplastic syndrome, and we sought to identify oncogenes that might cooperate with cyclin E hyperactivity in leukemogenesis. SB activation in hematopoietic precursors caused T-cell leukemia/lymphomas (T-ALL) and pure red blood cell erythroleukemias (EL). Analysis of >12,000 SB integration sites revealed markedly different oncogene activations in EL and T-ALL: Notch1 and Ikaros were most common in T-ALL, whereas ETS transcription factors (Erg and Ets1) were targeted in most ELs. Cyclin E status did not impact leukemogenesis or oncogene activations. Whereas most SB insertions were lost during culture of EL cell lines, Erg insertions were retained, indicating Erg's key role in these neoplasms. Surprisingly, cyclin ET74AT393A conferred growth factor independence and altered Erg-dependent differentiation in EL cell lines. These studies provide new molecular insights into erythroid leukemia and suggest potential therapeutic targets for human leukemia.
Primary chest wall lymphoma is rare and typically associated with chronic pleural inflammation. Double-hit lymphoma (DHL), which is defined as aggressive mature B-cell lymphoma with MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 rearrangements, is a highly aggressive malignancy that tends to have extranodal involvement and is resistant to standard immunochemotherapy. We herein report a 55-year-old man with no history of chronic pleural inflammation, diagnosed with primary chest wall DHL with MYC/BCL6 rearrangement, and harboring a unique BCL6 translocation, t (3;7) (q27;p12). After six courses of intensive chemotherapy, he has achieved complete remission. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of primary chest wall DHL.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Ningbo Yinzhou People's Hospital, Ningbo 315040, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Ningbo Medical Center Lihuili Eastern Hospital, Ningbo 315040, China.(3)Department of Hematology, Ningbo No.2 Hospital, Ningbo 315010, China.(4)Department of Hematology, Ningbo Yinzhou No.2 Hospital, Ningbo 315192, China.
Pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) is associated with a high frequency of copy number alterations (CNAs) in IKZF1, EBF1, PAX5, CDKN2A/B, RB1, BTG1, ETV6, and/or the PAR1 region (henceforth: B-cell development genes). We aimed to gain insight in the association between CNAs in these genes, clinical outcome parameters, and cellular drug resistance. 71% of newly diagnosed pediatric BCP-ALL cases harbored one or more CNAs in these B-cell development genes. The distribution and clinical relevance of these CNAs was highly subtype-dependent. In the DCOG-ALL10 cohort, only loss of IKZF1 associated as single marker with unfavorable outcome parameters and cellular drug resistance. Prednisolone resistance was observed in IKZF1-deleted primary high hyperdiploid cells (~1500-fold), while thiopurine resistance was detected in IKZF1-deleted primary BCR-ABL1-like and non-BCR-ABL1-like B-other cells (~2.7-fold). The previously described risk stratification classifiers, i.e. IKZF1plus and integrated cytogenetic and CNA classification, both predicted unfavorable outcome in the DCOG-ALL10 cohort, and associated with ex vivo drug cellular resistance to thiopurines, or L-asparaginase and thiopurines, respectively. This resistance could be attributed to overrepresentation of BCR-ABL1-like cases in these risk groups. Taken together, our data indicate that the prognostic value of CNAs in B-cell development genes is linked to subtype-related drug responses.
Comment in    Dig Dis Sci. 2019 Oct;64(10):3024-3026.
Erratum in    Sci Rep. 2020 Jan 23;10(1):1309.
BACKGROUND: Leukemia is a heterogeneous disorder, characterized by elevated proliferation of white blood cells. Various genetic studies have assessed the contributory roles of several single nucleotide polymorphisms with the development of leukemia. The role of genetic variation in the ARID5B and IKZF1 genes has previously been identified in various population groups; however, the role of these variants in the north Indian populations of Jammu and Kashmir is unknown.AIM: In this study, we explored the association of the newly identified genetic variants, rs10740055 of ARID5B and rs6964823 of IKZF1, with leukemic patients from Jammu and Kashmir of northern India.METHODS: The variants were genotyped using TaqMan allele discrimination assays for 616 individuals (210 leukemic cases and 406 healthy controls). The association of each SNP with the disease was evaluated using logistic regression.RESULTS: It was observed that the variants rs6964823 (IKZF1) and rs10740055 (ARID5B) showed significant associations with odds ratio (OR) and p-values of 1.5 (1.0-2.3 at 95% confidence interval [CI]) and 0.04; and 2.5 (1.5-4.1 at 95% CI) and 0.0002, respectively. We also evaluated the cumulative effect for both the variants by combining the risk genotypes and obtained and OR of 4.9.DISCUSSION: It was found that the variants rs10740055 of ARID5B and rs6964823 of IKZF1 act individually and additively as risk factors in the development of leukemia in the populations of Jammu and Kashmir in Northern India.
BACKGROUND: The zinc finger protein IKAROS (IKZF1) is an essential transcription factor in haematopoiesis that is involved primarily in lymphoid tissue differentiation. Many studies have indicated that IKZF1 alterations may be associated with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, but the results remain controversial.OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the association of the rs4132601 T/G and rs10272724 T/C IKZF1 gene polymorphisms with the risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and to determine whether these genetic variants affect the clinical parameters and the iron profiles of these children cohort.METHODS: This case control study was conducted on 170 Egyptian children comprising of two groups: group (I) included 90 children diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and group (II) comprised of 80 ages and sex-matched healthy control children. The studied polymorphisms were genotyped using PCR restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP).RESULTS: A higher frequency of the mutant GG genotype and G allele of rs4132601 was found in the patient group than in the control group. The results also showed a significant difference among the rs10272724 genotypes, with a higher frequency of the mutant CC genotype and C allele in the patients than in controls. The mutant GG genotype of rs4132601 and the mutant CC genotype of rs10272724 were associated with a higher serum ferritin level and transferrin saturation and an older age at diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia than the other genotypes.CONCLUSION: IKZF1 rs4132601 and rs10272724 could be considered significant risk contributors to childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and may impact the iron profiles in these children.
Cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4/6) are key regulators of the cell cycle, and there are FDA-approved CDK4/6 inhibitors for treating patients with metastatic breast cancer. However, due to conservation of their ATP-binding sites, development of selective agents has remained elusive. Here, we report imide-based degrader molecules capable of degrading both CDK4/6, or selectively degrading either CDK4 or CDK6. We were also able to tune the activity of these molecules against Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3), which are well-established targets of imide-based degraders. We found that in mantle cell lymphoma cell lines, combined IKZF1/3 degradation with dual CDK4/6 degradation produced enhanced anti-proliferative effects compared to CDK4/6 inhibition, CDK4/6 degradation, or IKZF1/3 degradation. In summary, we report here the first compounds capable of inducing selective degradation of CDK4 and CDK6 as tools to pharmacologically dissect their distinct biological functions.
Ikaros family zinc finger protein 1 and 3 (IKZF1 and IKZF3) are transcription factors that promote multiple myeloma (MM) proliferation. The immunomodulatory imide drug (IMiD) lenalidomide promotes myeloma cell death via Cereblon (CRBN)-dependent ubiquitylation and proteasome-dependent degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3. Although IMiDs have been used as first-line drugs for MM, the overall survival of refractory MM patients remains poor and demands the identification of novel agents to potentiate the therapeutic effect of IMiDs. Using an unbiased screen based on mass spectrometry, we identified the Runt-related transcription factor 1 and 3 (RUNX1 and RUNX3) as interactors of IKZF1 and IKZF3. Interaction with RUNX1 and RUNX3 inhibits CRBN-dependent binding, ubiquitylation, and degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 upon lenalidomide treatment. Inhibition of RUNXs, via genetic ablation or a small molecule (AI-10-104), results in sensitization of myeloma cell lines and primary tumors to lenalidomide. Thus, RUNX inhibition represents a valuable therapeutic opportunity to potentiate IMiDs therapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Author information:(1)Medical School of Nanchang University,Nanchang 330006,Jiangxi Province,China.Jiangxi Provincial Children's Hospital,Nanchang 330006,Jiangxi Province,China.(2)Jiangxi Provincial Children's Hospital,Nanchang 330006,Jiangxi Province,China.(3)Medical School of Nanchang University,Nanchang 330006,Jiangxi Province,China.E-mail：3092931971@qq.com.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a critical role in the maintenance of a pregnancy. While the kinetics of the number of peripheral blood Tregs has been satisfactorily described in mouse models, analysis of these cell populations in human pregnancy is complicated by high variability in the quantity of Tregs and inconsistencies in the markers used for detecting different types of Treg. In the light of this, we set out to investigate the kinetics of various types of Treg, including CD45RA, GARP and PD-1(+) Tregs, in the peripheral blood of pregnant women in the first, second and third trimester, and at the time of delivery. Tregs, defined as a CD4(+)CD25(++)CD127(dim)Foxp3(+) population of leucocytes, were detected using flow cytometry. Natural thymus-derived Tregs and induced Tregs in the peripheral blood were distinguished by the expression or absence of a Helios marker, respectively. Our results showed that during normal pregnancy the sizes of various Treg subpopulations varied across women and also in an individual woman did not remain constant but varied significantly, most notable being the decrease observed at the time of delivery. Helios(-) cells were significantly less frequent in the peripheral blood of healthy pregnant women than Helios(+) cells, and the majority of Tregs were Helios(+)PD-1(+) Tregs.
Most chronic viruses evade T-cell and natural killer (NK) immunity through downregulation of immune surface markers. Previously we showed that Pomalidomide (Pom) increases surface expression of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) in Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus-infected latent and lytic cells and restores ICAM-1 and B7-2 in latent cells. We explored the ability of Pom to increase immune surface marker expression in cells infected by other chronic viruses, including human T-cell leukemia virus type-1 (HTLV-1), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), human papilloma virus (HPV), Merkel cell polyoma virus (MCV), and human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1). Pom increased MHC-1, ICAM-1, and B7-2/CD86 in immortalized T-cell lines productively infected with HTLV-1 and also significantly increased their susceptibility to NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Pom enhancement of MHC-I and ICAM-1 in primary cells infected with HTLV-1 was abrogated by knockout of HTLV-1 orf-1. Pom increased expression of ICAM-1, B7-2 and MHC class I polypeptide related sequence A (MICA) surface expression in the EBV-infected Daudi cells and increased their T-cell activation and susceptibility to NK cells. Moreover, Pom increased expression of certain of these surface markers on Akata, Raji, and EBV lymphoblastic cell lines. The increased expression of immune surface markers in these virus-infected lines was generally associated with a decrease in IRF4 expression. By contrast, Pom treatment of HPV, MCV and HIV-1 infected cells did not increase these immune surface markers. Pom and related drugs may be clinically beneficial for the treatment of HTLV-1 and EBV-induced tumors by rendering infected cells more susceptible to both innate and adaptive host immune responses.
Immunomodulatory drugs (IMIDs) are very effective in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). The description of their cereblon-mediated mechanism of action was a hallmark in MM research. Although the importance of IMID-induced degradation of cereblon-binding proteins is well described in vitro, the prognostic value of their expression levels in MM cells is less clear. Based on recently published data showing somewhat conflicting RNA levels, we analyzed the association between the levels of the Ikaros family zinc finger protein 1 (IKZF1), IKZF3, and karyopherin subunit alpha 2 (KPNA2) proteins measured by flow cytometry and prognostic parameters in 214 newly diagnosed MM patients who were randomized in the GMMG HD6 trial. No statistically significant associations between the expression levels and age, gender, light chain type, International Staging System (ISS) stage or cytogenetic high- and normal risk groups could be identified. Hyperdiploid MM cells expressed significantly higher levels of IKZF1, IKZF3 and KPNA2 than nonhyperdiploid cells. In contrast, translocation t(11;14) was associated with significantly lower expression levels. In conclusion, the observed overexpression of cereblon-binding proteins in MM cells with gain of chromosomes 5, 9, 11, 15, and 19 is consistent with the previously proposed positive regulation of MYC by IKZF1 and IKZF3, as well as MYC activation in hyperdiploid MM cells.
Current systems for modulating the abundance of proteins of interest in living cells are powerful tools for studying protein function but differ in terms of their complexity and ease of use. Moreover, no one system is ideal for all applications, and the best system for a given protein of interest must often be determined empirically. The thalidomide-like molecules (collectively called the IMiDs) bind to the ubiquitously expressed cereblon ubiquitin ligase complex and alter its substrate specificity such that it targets the IKZF1 and IKZF3 lymphocyte transcription factors for destruction. Here, we mapped the minimal IMiD-responsive IKZF3 degron and show that this peptidic degron can be used to target heterologous proteins for destruction with IMiDs in a time- and dose-dependent manner in cultured cells grown ex vivo or in vivo.
Unveiling the mechanism of the relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the key to improve the prognosis of ALL and remains a huge challenge. Glycan-based interactions play a vital role in immune surveillance, cell-cell adhesion and cell-matrix interaction, contributing to treatment failure in tumor. However, the glycan essential for leukemia development and its upstream regulatory mechanism by oncogenic drivers were rarely reported. Here, we demonstrated that LeX, a well-characterized cancer-related glycan epitope, strengthened the cell-matrix interaction via glycosylating α5β1 integrin under the control of the driver oncogenic Ikaros isoform (IK6) in ALL. By analyzing the expression profile of Ikaros and the level of FUT4/LeX in clinical samples, we found that FUT4/LeX was positively correlated with dysfunctional Ikaros isoforms. IK1 (Full length Ikaros) regulates the level of FUT4 as a transcription repressor, while IK6 abolished the wild-type Ikaros mediated transcriptional repression and resulted in higher level of FUT4 expression. Moreover, we demonstrated that FUT4 could activate α5β1-mediated sequential signal transduction and accelerate adhesion and invasion between integrin α5β1 in leukemia cells and fibronectin in extracellular matrix (ECM) via increasing glycosylation. Together, our study provides a new insight into the mechanisms by which Ikaros mutation induced ALL cells invasion and a potential strategy for drug-resistance ALL by blocking LeX in combination with common chemotherapy.
CD4 Th cells are organizers of the immune response, directing other immune cells to initiate and maintain effective humoral and cellular immunity. CD4 T cells differentiate into distinct Th effector or regulatory subsets in response to signals delivered to them during the course of infection. Ikaros is a transcription factor that is expressed in blood cells from the level of the hematopoietic stem cell. It is required for normal thymic T cell development and serves as a tumor suppressor, as lack of Ikaros in developing lymphoid cells results in leukemia. To study the role of Ikaros in CD4 T cell differentiation and function, an Ikaros conditional knockout mouse was developed such that Ikaros expression was deleted specifically in mature T cells, thus avoiding defects observed in germline Ikaros mutant mice. Using this model system, we have shown that in the absence of Ikaros, CD4 T cells are able to attain Th1, Th2, and Th17, but not inducible regulatory T, cell fates. However, they show enhanced expression of a cohort of proinflammatory cytokines, resulting in differentiation of Th17 cells with a phenotype that has been associated with autoimmunity and pathological inflammation. In addition, we define Ikaros as a repressor of the gene program associated with the response to type I IFNs, another key pathway whose deregulation is linked to autoimmunity. Taken together, these data definitively define Ikaros as a critical regulator at the center of the inflammatory response in T cells and highlight a potential role in suppressing autoimmunity.
Comment on    Cell Stem Cell. 2019 Jan 3;24(1):153-165.e7.
Proteolysis targeting chimeric molecule ARV 825 causes ubiquitination of bromodomains resulting in their efficient degradation by proteasome activity. Bromodomain degradation down-regulates MYC transcription contributing to growth inhibition of various human cancers. We examined the therapeutic potential of ARV 825 against multiple myeloma (MM) cells both in vitro and in vivo In a dose-dependent manner, ARV 825 inhibited proliferation of 13 human MM cell lines and three fresh patient samples, and was associated with cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. ARV 825 rapidly and efficiently degraded BRD 2 and BRD 4. Sensitivity of MM cells to ARV 825 was positively correlated with cereblon levels. RNA sequencing analysis showed important genes such as CCR1, RGS, MYB and MYC were down-regulated by ARV 825. A total of 170 small molecule inhibitors were screened for synergy with ARV 825. Combination of ARV 825 with inhibitor of either dual PI3K/mTOR, CRM1, VEGFR, PDGFRα/b, FLT3, IGF-1R, protein kinase C, CBP-EP300 or JAK1/2 showed synergistic activity. Importantly, ARV 825 significantly inhibited the growth of MM xenografts and improved mice survival. Taken together, our results, in conjunction with recently published findings, provide a rationale for investigating the efficacy of ARV 825 for MM, use of cereblon as a biomarker for therapy of MM patients, and the combination of ARV 825 with small molecule inhibitors to improve the outcome of MM patients.
INTRODUCTION: Poverty is a well-known risk factor for a child's health and development. This paper aimed to establish whether poverty negatively affected both intra-uterine growth and early childhood growth, i.e., whether children facing poverty were at a double disadvantage.METHODS: For this study, we made use of routinely collected data on child development throughout early childhood from the 2006-2009 birth cohorts in Kind & Gezin's Ikaros database collected during 2,605,975 consultations with 273,935 children from birth to 730 days old. Indicators for child development at birth were gestational age and height-at-birth. A standardized height-for-age indicator captured height development throughout early childhood. A multidimensional indicator measured the risk of poverty. For the analysis of development at birth, we used linear and logistic regression; for the analysis of height development during early childhood, we estimated linear and logistic growth curve models.RESULTS: The risk of poverty negatively affected both gestational age and height-at-birth. Throughout early childhood, we observed a negative relation between the risk of poverty and height-for-age indicators. However, the effect varied throughout childhood. Children at risk of poverty (over)compensated for their smaller stature at birth, and between ages 6 and 18 months, approximately, the negative effects of risk of poverty decreased substantially or disappeared. However, towards the end of the period studied, children born in households at risk of poverty started to lag again in height development.CONCLUSION: This study found that the risk of poverty indeed negatively affected a child's growth, both in utero and in early childhood. However, the results suggest that developmental lags later in childhood were not merely an extension of such lags at birth.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive hematopoietic malignancy with few molecular alterations showing a consensual prognostic value. CRLF2 overexpression was recently identified in high-risk T-ALL patients. For these cases, no genomic abnormality was found to be associated with CRLF2 overexpression. IKZF1 has been recently shown to be a direct transcriptional regulator of CRLF2 expression. Moreover, it is known that NOTCH1 antagonizes IKZF1 in T-ALL. In light of these pieces of evidence, we reasoned that IKZF1 binding perturbation and CRLF2 upregulation could be associated in T-ALL. We evaluated two independent series of pediatric T-ALL cases (PHOP, n = 57 and TARGET, n = 264) for the presence of common T-ALL molecular abnormalities, such as NOTCH1/FBXW7 mutations. We also assessed CRLF2 and IKZF1 gene expression. CRLF2 overexpression was observed in 14% (PHOP) and 16% (TARGET) of T-ALL patients. No correlation was found between mRNA expression of CRLF2 and IKZF1 in both cohorts. Interestingly, we show that patients with mutations affecting NOTCH1-PEST domain and/or FBXW7 had higher CRLF2 expression (P = .04). In summary, we demonstrate for the first time that only mutations resulting in ICN1 (intracellular domain of NOTCH1) stabilization are associated with CRLF2 overexpression.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to establish the association of two polymorphisms of the β-defensin 1 gene (DEFB1, OMIM#602056) with the risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in a group of Mexican patients.METHODS: The 5'UTR -20 G/A, and -44 C/G polymorphisms of DEFB1 gene were genotyped by 5' exonuclease TaqMan assays in a group of 252 patients with T2DM and 522 healthy control.RESULTS: Under dominant and additive models adjusted for the risk factors, the C allele of the -44 C/G polymorphism was associated with increased risk of T2DM (OR = 1.63, 95% CI = 1.07-2.48, pCdom  = 0.021 and OR = 1.42, 95% CI = 1.05-1.91, pCadd  = 0.023, respectively). In addition, the linkage disequilibrium analysis showed that AC haplotype was associated with an increased risk of developing T2DM (OR = 4.39, p = 0.04). The in-silico analysis showed that the -44 C allele produces a binding site for the transcription factor Ikaros (IK).CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that the C allele of -44 C/G polymorphism, as well as haplotype AC are associated with the presence of T2DM in the Mexican population. The variation in this polymorphism of the DEFB1 gene could increase the migration of the macrophages to pancreatic islets accelerate the β-cell dysfunction in T2DM.
Expression of Rag1 and Rag2 is tightly regulated in developing T cells to mediate TCR gene assembly. Here we have investigated the molecular mechanisms governing the assembly and disassembly of a transcriptionally active RAG locus chromatin hub in CD4+CD8+ thymocytes. Rag1 and Rag2 gene expression in CD4+CD8+ thymocytes depends on Rag1 and Rag2 promoter activation by a distant antisilencer element (ASE). We identify GATA3 and E2A as critical regulators of the ASE, and Runx1 and E2A as critical regulators of the Rag1 promoter. We reveal hierarchical assembly of a transcriptionally active chromatin hub containing the ASE and RAG promoters, with Rag2 recruitment and expression dependent on assembly of a functional ASE-Rag1 framework. Finally, we show that signal-dependent down-regulation of RAG gene expression in CD4+CD8+ thymocytes depends on Ikaros and occurs with disassembly of the RAG locus chromatin hub. Our results provide important new insights into the molecular mechanisms that orchestrate RAG gene expression in developing T cells.
Comment in    Blood. 2019 Feb 28;133(9):888-889.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a rare disease in children. Different from that in adults, childhood CML involves transformative events occurring over a short time period. CML transformation to lymphoid blast phase (BP) is associated with copy number abnormalities, characteristic of BCR-ABL1 positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia, but not of CML in the chronic phase. Here, we present an unusual case of CML progressing to BP in a 1.6-year-old child, harboring IKZF1, PAX5, CDKN2A, and ETV6 deletions at diagnosis. It remains to be addressed whether distinct mechanisms might account for CML pathogenesis in early childhood.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Innate lymphoid cells [ILC] have been suggested to play a role in inflammatory bowel disease [IBD]. Here, we investigated the ILC compartment in intestinal biopsies and blood from distinct patient groups with Crohn's disease [CD] and ulcerative colitis [UC], either newly diagnosed or with disease established for at least 1 year. This approach allowed us to simultaneously investigate temporal, disease-specific, and tissue-specific changes in ILC composition in IBD.METHODS: ILC subset frequencies, phenotype, and transcription factor profile in blood and intestinal biopsies were investigated by multi-parameter flow cytometry analysis. Endoscopic disease severity was judged using the ulcerative colitis endoscopic index of severity and the simple endoscopic score for Crohn's disease.RESULTS: The frequency of NKp44+ILC3 was decreased in inflamed tissue, both in patients with CD and those with UC, already at the time of diagnosis, and correlated with disease severity. Simultaneously, the frequency of ILC1 was increased in patients with CD, whereas the frequency of ILC2 was increased in patients with UC. However, in patients with established UC or CD, both ILC1 and ILC2 were increased. In contrast to the ILC composition in inflamed tissue, ILC in non-inflamed tissue or blood were unchanged compared with non-IBD controls. Finally, in patients undergoing treatment with an anti-α4β7 antibody the frequencies of ILC in peripheral blood remained unchanged.CONCLUSIONS: We report both shared and distinct changes in ILC composition depending on diagnosis and disease duration. The alterations in ILC composition in IBD occur selectively at inflamed sites in the gut.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are acute inflammatory vesiculobullous reactions of the mucosa of the ocular surface, oral cavity, and genitals, and of the skin. Severe ocular complications (SOC) are present in about half of SJS/TEN patients diagnosed by dermatologists. We review our group's findings on the genetic predisposition for and the etiology of SJS/TEN with SOC. We suspected that abnormal innate mucosal immunity, resulting in an anomalous response to commensal bacteria that usually do not elicit such a response, contributes to the ocular surface inflammation seen in SJS/TEN with SOC. We found that cold medicines, including multi-ingredient cold medications and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, were the main causative drugs especially in patients with SJS/TEN with SOC. Cold medicine-related SJS/TEN (CM-SJS/TEN) with SOC was strongly associated with HLA-A*02:06 in the Japanese populations, and significantly associated with HLA-B*44:03 in the Japanese and in Indian and Brazilian populations. Single nucleotide polymorphism association analysis showed that the Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), prostaglandin-E receptor 3 (PTGER3), and IKZF1 gene were significantly associated with CM-SJS/TEN with SOC and that they could regulate mucocutaneous inflammation including that of the ocular surface. As we found several HLA-SNP sets with a high odds ratio, we postulated that they may help to predict the possible development of SJS/TEN with SOC. From our findings we suggest that besides microbial infection and cold medicines, a combination of multiple gene polymorphisms and their interactions contribute strongly to the onset of CM-SJS/TEN with SOC.
Cereblon (CRBN), a substrate receptor of the cullin-4 RING E3 ligase (CRL4), has been utilized for the targeted protein degradation via small molecular weight CRBN modulators. However, it is unclear whether and how proteins that interact with CRBN at different domains are affected by these modulators. Here, we use CRBN and its four binding partners, c-Jun, chloride channel protein CLC-1, transcription factor IKZF1, and MEIS2, as model proteins to investigate the effect of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) including thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide, on their stability, ubiquitination, and interaction with CRBN. Together with previous discoveries, domain mapping experiment shows that these four proteins interact with CRBN at three distinct regions. Immunoblotting analyses reveal that the protein level of CRBN-binding partners could be enhanced, attenuated, or not affected by IMiDs. Interaction analyses and ubiquitination assay demonstrate that IMiDs modulate the interaction between CRBN and its binding partners in three distinct ways and thus differentially regulate their ubiquitination. This work suggests that the binding domain in CRBN is a critical factor which influences the regulation of IMiDs on the ubiquitination and stability of these CRBN-interacting partners.
Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) mediate signal transduction in cells. Small molecules that regulate PPIs are important tools for biology and biomedicine. Dynamic imaging of small molecule induced PPIs characterizes and verifies these molecules in living cells. It is thus important to develop cellular assays for dynamic visualization of small molecule induced protein-protein association and dissociation in living cells. Here we have applied a fluorophore phase transition based principle and designed a PPI assay named SPPIER (separation of phases-based protein interaction reporter). SPPIER utilizes the green fluorescent protein (GFP) and is thus genetically encoded. Upon small molecule induced PPI, SPPIER rapidly forms highly fluorescent GFP droplets in living cells. SPPIER detects immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) induced PPI between cereblon and the transcription factor Ikaros. It also detects IMiD analogue (e.g., CC-885) induced PPI between cereblon and GSPT1. Furthermore, SPPIER can visualize bifunctional molecules (e.g. PROTAC)-induced PPI between an E3 ubiquitin ligase and a target protein. Lastly, SPPIER can be modified to image small molecule induced protein-protein dissociation, such as nutlin-induced dissociation between HDM2 and p53. The intense brightness and rapid kinetics of SPPIER enable robust and dynamic visualization of PPIs in living cells.
Mutations and single nucleotide polymorphisms of AT-rich interactive domain-containing protein 5B (ARID5B) are involved in the oncogenesis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and treatment outcomes. However, ARID5B expression and clinical significance in ALL remain unclear. We found ARID5B is significantly down-regulated in ALL compared to healthy bone marrow controls. ARID5B also interacts with PHD finger protein 2 (PHF2). Low expression of ARID5B (ARID5Blow) or ARID5B and PHF2 (ARID5BlowPHF2low) is correlated with the markers of cell proliferation and poor prognosis in ALL patients. Ikaros directly regulates ARID5B expression in ALL. Restoring Ikaros function by Casein Kinase II inhibition also promotes ARID5B expression through recruitment of trimethylation of lysine 4 on histone H3 (H3K4me3) at its promoter region. In summary, our data show that aberrant expression of ARID5B and PHF2 is related to leukemic cell proliferation and several poor prognostic markers. Our data indicate ARID5Blow expression, particularly ARID5BlowPHF2low expression, is linked to Ikaros dysfunction and involved in the oncogenic effect of high-risk ALL, which may represent a high-risk subgroup of ALL.
Comment in    Biochemistry. 2019 Feb 19;58(7):861-864.
Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), including thalidomide derivatives such as lenalidomide and pomalidomide, offer therapeutic benefit in several hematopoietic malignancies and autoimmune/inflammatory diseases. However, it is difficult to study the IMiD mechanism of action in murine disease models because murine cereblon (CRBN), the substrate receptor for IMiD action, is resistant to some of IMiDs therapeutic effects. To overcome this difficulty, we generated humanized cereblon (CRBNI391V) mice thereby providing an animal model to unravel complex mechanisms of action in a murine physiological setup. In our current study, we investigated the degradative effect toward IKZF1 and CK-1α, a target substrate of IMiDs. Unlike WT mice which were resistant to lenalidomide and pomalidomide, T lymphocytes from CRBNI391V mice responded with a higher degree of IKZF1 and CK-1α protein degradation. Furthermore, IMiDs resulted in an increase in IL-2 among CRBNI391V mice but not in the WT group. We have also tested a thalidomide derivative, FPFT-2216, which showed an inhibitory effect toward IKZF1 protein level. As opposed to pomalidomide, FPFT-2216 and lenalidomide degrades CK-1α. Additionally, we assessed the potential therapeutic effects of IMiDs in dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis. In both WT and humanized mice, lenalidomide showed a significant therapeutic effect in the DSS model of colitis, while the effect of pomalidomide was less pronounced. Thus, while IMiDs' degradative effect on IKZF1 and CK-1α, and up-regulation of IL-2, is dependent on CRBN, the therapeutic benefit of IMiDs in a mouse model of inflammatory bowel disease occurs through a CRBN-IMiD binding region independent pathway.
Philadelphia (Ph)-like or BCR-ABL like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is defined on the basis of a gene expression profile that is similar to Ph-positive ALL. It comprises a wide spectrum of genetic lesions affecting primarily the cytokine receptor and/or kinase signalling genes. It accounts for approximately 10-15% of pediatric ALL, and is more common in patients who are high-risk according to the National Cancer Institute criteria. Presence of Ph-like mutations is an independent predictor of poor outcome. However, there is vast potential to utilize targeted therapy to improve survival in this group. The sizeable range of genetic lesions varying from translocations, fusions, point mutations and deletions make the diagnosis challenging. Hence, a practical and cost effective approach is required to enable identification in resource constrained settings. Patients with recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities such as ETV6-RUNX1, high hyperdiploidy, TCF3-PBX1, BCR-ABL1 and KMT2A (MLL) rearrangement need not be tested, as these are mutually exclusive with BCR-ABL like mutations. Detection of CRLF2 overexpression, which is the commonest abnormality, is employed as the first step. In patients lacking overexpression, testing for tyrosine kinase fusions can be performed. However, the goal should be to employ a combination of molecular diagnostic techniques such as reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (PCR), real time quantitative PCR, fluorescence in situ hybridization and Sanger sequencing to detect genetic lesions that are amenable to targeted therapy.
Regulatory T cells are central mediators of immune regulation and play an essential role in the maintenance of immune homeostasis in the steady state and under pathophysiological conditions. Disruption of CD8 Treg-dependent recognition of Qa-1-restricted self-antigens can result in dysregulated immune responses, tissue damage, autoimmune disease and cancer. Recent progress in studies on regulatory T cells of the CD8 lineage has provided new biological insight into this specialized regulatory T cell subpopulation. Identification of the Helios transcription factor as an essential control element for the differentiation and function of CD8 regulatory T cells has led to a better understanding of the unique genetic program of these cells. Recent analyses of T-cell receptor usage and antigen recognition by Qa-1-restricted CD8 Treg have provided additional insight into the unusual biological function of this regulatory CD8 lineage. Here we summarize recent advances in our understanding of CD8 regulatory T cells with emphasis on lineage commitment, differentiation and stability.
Precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is associated with recurrent mutations that occur in cancer-initiating cells. There is a need to understand how driver mutations influence clonal evolution of leukemia. The E26-transformation-specific (ETS) transcription factors PU.1 and Spi-B (encoded by Spi1 and Spib) execute a critical role in B-cell development and serve as complementary tumor suppressors. Here, we used a mouse model to conditionally delete Spi1 and Spib genes in developing B cells. These mice developed B-ALL with a median time to euthanasia of 18 weeks. We performed RNA and whole-exome sequencing (WES) on leukemias isolated from Mb1-CreΔPB mice and identified single nucleotide variants (SNVs) in Jak1, Jak3, and Ikzf3 genes, resulting in amino acid sequence changes. Jak3 mutations resulted in amino acid substitutions located in the pseudo-kinase (R653H, V670A) and in the kinase (T844M) domains. Introduction of Jak3 T844M into Spi1/Spib-deficient precursor B cells was sufficient to promote proliferation in response to low IL-7 concentrations in culture, and to promote proliferation and leukemia-like disease in transplanted mice. We conclude that mutations in Janus kinases represent secondary drivers of leukemogenesis that cooperate with Spi1/Spib deletion. This mouse model represents a useful tool to study clonal evolution in B-ALL.
Ikaros, encoded by IKZF1 (Ikaros family zinc finger 1), is an important transcription factor in the control of lymphocyte specification and differentiation. Multiple functions of Ikaros have been exerted in almost all hematopoietic cell types, from stem cells to mature lymphoid and myeloid cells. Moreover, nonhematopoietic cells are also functional targets of Ikaros. Ikaros is essential for normal hematopoiesis, autoimmune and tumor suppression. Ikaros mutations were associated with lymphoblastic cells deficiency, autoimmunity and malignancies development, including hematological malignancies (leukemia) and solid tumors. This review focus on discuss the role of Ikaros in hematological malignancies, solid tumors and autoimmune diseases, and highlight the importance of Ikaros in cancer and immune diseases therapy.
We recently showed that the outcome of multiple myeloma (MM) patients treated in the REPEAT study (evaluation of lenalidomide combined with low-dose cyclophosphamide and prednisone (REP) in lenalidomide-refractory MM) was markedly better than what has been described with cyclophosphamide-prednisone alone. The outcome with REP was not associated with plasma cell Cereblon expression levels, suggesting that the effect of REP treatment may involve mechanisms independent of plasma cell Cereblon-mediated direct anti-tumor activity. We therefore hypothesized that immunomodulatory effects contribute to the anti-MM activity of REP treatment, rather than plasma cell Cereblon-mediated effects. Consequently, we now characterized the effect of REP treatment on immune cell subsets in peripheral blood samples collected on day 1 and 14 of cycle 1, as well as on day 1 of cycle 2. We observed a significant mid-cycle decrease in the Cereblon substrate proteins Ikaros and Aiolos in diverse lymphocyte subsets, which was paralleled by an increase in T-cell activation. These effects were restored to baseline at day one of the second cycle, one week after lenalidomide interruption. In vitro, lenalidomide enhanced peripheral blood mononuclear cell-mediated killing of both lenalidomide-sensitive and lenalidomide-resistant MM cells in a co-culture system. These results indicate that the Cereblon-mediated immunomodulatory properties of lenalidomide are maintained in lenalidomide-refractory MM patients and may contribute to immune-mediated killing of MM cells. Therefore, combining lenalidomide with other drugs can have potent effects through immunomodulation, even in patients considered to be lenalidomide-refractory.
Despite major improvements in the treatment landscape, most multiple myeloma (MM) patients eventually succumb to the underlying malignancy. Immunotherapy represents an attractive strategy to achieve durable remissions due to its specificity and capacity for long term memory. Activation of immune cells is controlled by a balance of agonistic and inhibitory signals via surface and intracellular receptors. Blockade of such inhibitory immune receptors (termed as "immune checkpoints") including PD-1/PD-L1 has led to impressive tumor regressions in several cancers. Preclinical studies suggest that these immune checkpoints may also play a role in regulating tumor immunity in MM. Indeed, myeloma was among the first tumors wherein therapeutic efficacy of blockade of PD-1 axis was demonstrated in preclinical models. Expression of PD-L1 on tumor and immune cells also correlates with the risk of malignant transformation. However, early clinical studies of single agent PD-1 blockade have not led to meaningful tumor regressions. Immune modulatory drugs (IMiDs) are now the mainstay of most MM therapies. Interestingly, the mechanism of immune activation by IMiDs also involves release of inhibitory checkpoints, such as Ikaros-mediated suppression of IL-2. Combination of PD-1 targeted agents with IMiDs led to promising clinical activity, including objective responses in some patients refractory to IMiD therapy. However, some of these studies were transiently halted in 2017 due to concern for a possible safety signal with IMiD-PD1 combination. The capacity of the immune system to control MM has been further reinforced by recent success of adoptive cell therapies, such as T cells redirected by chimeric-antigen receptors (CAR-Ts). There remains an unmet need to better understand the immunologic effects of checkpoint blockade, delineate mechanisms of resistance to these therapies and identify optimal combination of agonistic signaling, checkpoint inhibitors as well as other therapies including CAR-Ts, to realize the potential of the immune system to control and prevent MM.
Comment in    J Invest Dermatol. 2019 Mar;139(3):514-517.
Multiple myeloma remains an incurable disease, and continued efforts are required to develop novel agents and novel drug combinations with more effective anti-myeloma activity. Here, we show that the pan-PIM kinase inhibitors SGI1776 and CX6258 exhibit significant anti-myeloma activity and that combining a pan-PIM kinase inhibitor with the immunomodulatory agent lenalidomide in an in vivo myeloma xenograft mouse model resulted in synergistic myeloma cell killing without additional hematologic or hepatic toxicities. Further investigations indicated that treatment with a pan-PIM kinase inhibitor promoted increased ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3, two transcription factors crucial for survival of myeloma cells. Combining a pan-PIM kinase inhibitor with lenalidomide led to more effective degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 in multiple myeloma cell lines as well as xenografts of myeloma tumors. We also demonstrated that treatment with a pan-PIM kinase inhibitor resulted in increased expression of cereblon, and that knockdown of cereblon via a shRNA lentivirus abolished the effects of PIM kinase inhibition on the degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 and myeloma cell apoptosis, demonstrating a central role of cereblon in pan-PIM kinase inhibitor-mediated down-regulation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 and myeloma cell killing. These data elucidate the mechanism of pan-PIM kinase inhibitor mediated anti-myeloma effect and the rationale for the synergy observed with lenalidomide co-treatment, and provide justification for a clinical trial of the combination of pan-PIM kinase inhibitors and lenalidomide for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
To date there has not been a study directly comparing relative Igκ rearrangement frequencies obtained from genomic DNA (gDNA) and cDNA and since each approach has potential biases, this is an important issue to clarify. Here we used deep sequencing to compare the unbiased gDNA and RNA Igκ repertoire from the same pre-B cell pool. We find that ~20% of Vκ genes have rearrangement frequencies ≥2-fold up or down in RNA vs. DNA libraries, including many members of the Vκ3, Vκ4, and Vκ6 families. Regression analysis indicates Ikaros and E2A binding are associated with strong promoters. Within the pre-B cell repertoire, we observed that individual Vκ genes rearranged at very different frequencies, and also displayed very different Jκ usage. Regression analysis revealed that the greatly unequal Vκ gene rearrangement frequencies are best predicted by epigenetic marks of enhancers. In particular, the levels of newly arising H3K4me1 peaks associated with many Vκ genes in pre-B cells are most predictive of rearrangement levels. Since H3K4me1 is associated with long range chromatin interactions which are created during locus contraction, our data provides mechanistic insight into unequal rearrangement levels. Comparison of Igκ rearrangements occurring in pro-B cells and pre-B cells from the same mice reveal a pro-B cell bias toward usage of Jκ-distal Vκ genes, particularly Vκ10-96 and Vκ1-135. Regression analysis indicates that PU.1 binding is the highest predictor of Vκ gene rearrangement frequency in pro-B cells. Lastly, the repertoires of iEκ-/- pre-B cells reveal that iEκ actively influences Vκ gene usage, particularly Vκ3 family genes, overlapping with a zone of iEκ-regulated germline transcription. These represent new roles for iEκ in addition to its critical function in promoting overall Igκ rearrangement. Together, this study provides insight into many aspects of Igκ repertoire formation.
The cereblon modulating agents (CMs) including lenalidomide, pomalidomide and CC-220 repurpose the Cul4-RBX1-DDB1-CRBN (CRL4CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex to induce the degradation of specific neomorphic substrates via polyubiquitination in conjunction with E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes, which have until now remained elusive. Here we show that the ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes UBE2G1 and UBE2D3 cooperatively promote the K48-linked polyubiquitination of CRL4CRBN neomorphic substrates via a sequential ubiquitination mechanism. Blockade of UBE2G1 diminishes the ubiquitination and degradation of neomorphic substrates, and consequent antitumor activities elicited by all tested CMs. For example, UBE2G1 inactivation significantly attenuated the degradation of myeloma survival factors IKZF1 and IKZF3 induced by lenalidomide and pomalidomide, hence conferring drug resistance. UBE2G1-deficient myeloma cells, however, remained sensitive to a more potent IKZF1/3 degrader CC-220. Collectively, it will be of fundamental interest to explore if loss of UBE2G1 activity is linked to clinical resistance to drugs that hijack the CRL4CRBN to eliminate disease-driving proteins.
Recent studies have demonstrated that the immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) lead to the degradation of the transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos. However, why their loss subsequently leads to multiple myeloma (MM) cell death remains unclear. Using CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing, we have deleted IKZF1/Ikaros and IKZF3/Aiolos in human MM cell lines to gain further insight into their downstream gene regulatory networks. Inactivation of either factor alone recapitulates the cell intrinsic action of the IMiDs, resulting in cell cycle arrest and induction of apoptosis. Furthermore, evaluation of the transcriptional changes resulting from their loss demonstrates striking overlap with lenalidomide treatment. This was not dependent on reduction of the IRF4-MYC "axis," as neither protein was consistently downregulated, despite cell death occurring, and overexpression of either factor failed to rescue for Ikaros loss. Importantly, Ikaros and Aiolos repress the expression of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), including CD38, and their loss led to the activation of an interferon-like response, contributing to MM cell death. Ikaros/Aiolos repressed CD38 expression through interaction with the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase complex in MM. IMiD-induced loss of Ikaros or treatment with interferon resulted in an upregulation of CD38 surface expression on MM cells, priming for daratumumab-induced NK cell-mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. These results give further insight into the mechanism of action of the IMiDs and provide mechanistic rationale for combination with anti-CD38 monoclonal antibodies.
Author information:(1)Division of Stem Cell Regulation, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical University.
The immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide, all approved for the treatment of multiple myeloma, induce targeted ubiquitination and degradation of Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3) via the cereblon (CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase. IMiD-based proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) can efficiently recruit CRBN to a protein of interest, leading to its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. By linking two pomalidomide molecules, we designed homobifunctional, so-called homo-PROTACs and investigated their ability to induce self-directed ubiquitination and degradation. The homodimerized compound 15a was characterized as a highly potent and efficient CRBN degrader with only minimal effects on IKZF1 and IKZF3. The cellular selectivity of 15a for CRBN degradation was confirmed at the proteome level by quantitative mass spectrometry. Inactivation by compound 15a did not affect proliferation of different cell lines, prevented pomalidomide-induced degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3, and antagonized the effects of pomalidomide on multiple myeloma cells. Homobifunctional CRBN degraders will be useful tools for future biomedical investigations of CRBN-related signaling and may help to further elucidate the molecular mechanism of thalidomide analogues.
Clinical application of Ag-specific T regulatory cells (Tregs) offers promise for the treatment of undesirable immune diseases. To achieve this goal, long-term expansion of Tregs is required to obtain sufficient numbers of cells. However, human Tregs are not stable ex vivo. Therefore, we previously developed an innovative Treg expansion protocol using 25mer-phosphorothioated random oligonucleotides (ODNps25). The addition of ODNps25 successfully resulted in the stabilization of engineered Ag-specific Tregs; however, the mechanism is not fully characterized. We first identified sterile α motif histidine-aspartate-domain containing protein 1 (SAMHD1) as an ODNps25-binding protein using a UV-cross-linking pull-down strategy. SAMHD1 physically interacted with the 3' untranslated region of Foxp3 mRNA and was translocated from nucleus to cytoplasm after ODNps25 treatment. Importantly, addition of ODNps25 enhanced the interaction of SAMHD1 and Foxp3 mRNA significantly, and this interaction was increased by TCR stimulation. Because ODNps25 binds to the nuclease (HD) domain of SAMHD1, we then established that overexpression of a dNTPase-deficient mutant (D137N) in Tregs significantly stabilized the expression level of the Foxp3 protein. Furthermore, we found that TCR stimulation upregulates phosphorylation of the threonine residue (Thr592), which is a regulatory site to control SAMHD1 activity, and phosphorylation of Thr592 is critical to control SAMHD1 activity to stabilize the expression of Foxp3 and Helios in Tregs. Taken together, we suggest that the interaction of ODNPs25 in HD or phosphorylation of Thr592 by TCR stimulation interferes with nuclease activity of SAMHD1, thereby stabilizing 3' untranslated region of Foxp3 and Helios mRNAs in long-term culture.
BACKGROUND: Prenatal infection is a substantial risk factor for neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism in offspring. We have previously reported that influenza vaccination (VAC) during early pregnancy contributes to neurogenesis and behavioral function in offspring.RESULTS: Here, we probe the efficacy of VAC pretreatment on autism-like behaviors in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced maternal immune activation (MIA) mouse model. We show that VAC improves abnormal fetal brain cytoarchitecture and lamination, an effect associated with promotion of intermediate progenitor cell differentiation in MIA fetal brain. These beneficial effects are sufficient to prevent social deficits in adult MIA offspring. Furthermore, whole-genome analysis suggests a strong interaction between Ikzf1 (IKAROS family zinc-finger 1) and neuronal differentiation. Intriguingly, VAC rescues excessive microglial Ikzf1 expression and attenuates microglial inflammatory responses in the MIA fetal brain.CONCLUSIONS: Our study implies that a preprocessed influenza vaccination prevents maternal bacterial infection from causing neocortical lamination impairments and autism-related behaviors in offspring.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a pivotal role in the pathological development of hypertension. Helios, a transcription factor from the Ikaros family, was recently reported to be a bona fide marker for natural Tregs or activated Tregs with suppression function, however, little has been known about its role in hypertension. This study was aimed to find whether Helios+ Tregs really play a vital role in hypertension. A total of 60 hypertension patients, and 46 normotension subjects were enrolled in this study. Frequencies of different Tregs subsets in peripheral blood were measured by flow cytometry. Plasma cytokine level was determined by ELISA. The mRNA expression of Foxp3 and Helios in purified CD4+ T cells was detected by RT-PCR. Proportion of CD4+Foxp3+Helios+ Tregs was decreased significantly in patients with hypertension (62.52%±1.18% vs. 71.89%±1.03%, P<0.01), and it was correlated with plasma level of IL-10 positively (a=0.505, P<0.05) and plasma level of IFN-gamma negatively (r=-0.551, P<0.05). The mRNA expression of Foxp3 (7.23±1.00 vs. 10.58±0.54, P<0.05) and Helios (8.47±0.95 vs. 15.52±2.0, P<0.05) was decreased in CD4+ T cells from patients with hypertension. Helios+ Tregs were decreased in patients with hypertension and may play a protective role in hypertension progression.
Comment in    Blood. 2018 Oct 4;132(14):1470-1471.
Purpose Although IKZF1 deletion ( IKZF1del) confers a higher risk of relapse in childhood B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), it is uncertain whether treatment intensification will reverse this risk and improve outcomes. The Malaysia-Singapore ALL 2010 study (MS2010) prospectively upgraded the risk assignment of patients with IKZF1del to the next highest level and added imatinib to the treatment of all patients with BCR- ABL1 fusion. Patients and Methods In total, 823 patients with B-ALL treated in the Malyasia-Singapore ALL 2003 study (MS2003; n = 507) and MS2010 (n = 316) were screened for IKZF1del using the multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification assay. The impact of IKZF1del on the 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) was compared between the two studies. Results Patient characteristics were similar in both cohorts, including IKZF1del frequencies (59 of 410 [14.4%] v 50 of 275 [18.2%]; P = .2). In MS2003, where IKZF1del was not used in risk assignment, IKZF1del conferred a significantly higher 5-year CIR (30.4% v 8.1%; P = 8.7 × 10-7), particularly in the intermediate-risk group who lacked high-risk features (25.0% v 7.5%; P = .01). For patients with BCR-ABL1-negative disease, IKZF1del conferred a higher 5-year CIR (20.5% v 8.0%; P = .01). In MS2010, the 5-year CIR of patients with IKZF1del significantly decreased to 13.5% ( P = .05) and no longer showed a significant difference in patients with BCR-ABL1-negative disease (11.4% v 4.4%; P = .09). The 5-year overall survival for patients with IKZF1del improved from 69.6% in MS2003 to 91.6% in MS2010 ( P = .007). Conclusion Intensifying therapy for childhood B-ALL with IKZF1del significantly reduced the risk of relapse and improved overall survival. Incorporating IKZF1del screening significantly improved treatment outcomes in contemporary ALL therapy.
Comment in    Blood. 2018 Sep 20;132(12):1219-1220.
Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) including lenalidomide and pomalidomide bind cereblon (CRBN) and activate the CRL4CRBN ubiquitin ligase to trigger proteasomal degradation of the essential transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3 and multiple myeloma (MM) cytotoxicity. We have shown that CRBN is also targeted for degradation by SCFFbxo7 ubiquitin ligase. In the current study, we explored the mechanisms underlying sensitivity of MM cells to IMiDs using genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening. We validate that CSN9 signalosome complex, a deactivator of Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase, inhibits SCFFbxo7 E3 ligase-mediated CRBN degradation, thereby conferring sensitivity to IMiDs; conversely, loss of function of CSN9 signalosome activates SCFFbxo7 complex, thereby enhancing degradation of CRBN and conferring IMiD resistance. Finally, we show that pretreatment with either proteasome inhibitors or NEDD8 activating enzyme (NAE) inhibitors can abrogate degradation and maintain levels of CRBN, thereby enhancing sensitivity to IMiDs. These studies therefore demonstrate that CSN9 signalosome complex regulates sensitivity to IMiDs by modulating CRBN expression.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Hunan Children's Hospital, Changsha 410007, China. mincui@sina.com.
Plasmacytoid and conventional dendritic cells (pDCs and cDCs) arise from monocyte and dendritic progenitors (MDPs) and common dendritic progenitors (CDPs) through gene expression changes that remain partially understood. Here we show that the Ikaros transcription factor is required for DC development at multiple stages. Ikaros cooperates with Notch pathway activation to maintain the homeostasis of MDPs and CDPs. Ikaros then antagonizes TGFβ function to promote pDC differentiation from CDPs. Strikingly, Ikaros-deficient CDPs and pDCs express a cDC-like transcriptional signature that is correlated with TGFβ activation, suggesting that Ikaros is an upstream negative regulator of the TGFβ pathway and a repressor of cDC-lineage genes in pDCs. Almost all of these phenotypes can be rescued by short-term in vitro treatment with γ-secretase inhibitors, which affects both TGFβ-dependent and -independent pathways, but is Notch-independent. We conclude that Ikaros is a crucial differentiation factor in early dendritic progenitors that is required for pDC identity.
PURPOSE: Methylation in IKZF1 and BCAT1 are common events in colorectal cancer (CRC). They are often detected in blood as circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) at diagnosis and disappear after surgery in most CRC patients. A prospective study was conducted to determine the relationship between detection of these markers following surgery and risk for residual disease and for recurrence.METHODS: ctDNA status with methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 was determined within 12 months of surgical resection of CRC, and was related to presence of or risk for residual disease (margins involved, metastases present or nature of node involvement), and to recurrence-free survival.RESULTS: Blood was collected from 172 CRC patients after surgery and 28 (16%) were ctDNA positive. Recurrence was diagnosed in 23 of the 138 with clinical follow-up after surgery (median follow-up 23.3 months, IQR 14.3-29.5). Multivariate modeling indicated that features suggestive of residual disease were an independent predictor of post-surgery ctDNA status: cases with any of three features (close resection margins, apical node involved, or distant metastases) were 5.3 times (95% CI 1.5-18.4, p = 0.008) more likely to be ctDNA positive. Multivariate analysis showed that post-surgery ctDNA positivity was independently associated with an increased risk of recurrence (HR 3.8, 1.5-9.5, p = 0.004).CONCLUSIONS: CRC cases positive for methylated ctDNA after surgery are at increased risk of residual disease and subsequently recurrence. This could have implications for guiding recommendations for adjuvant therapy and surveillance strategies. Randomized studies are now indicated to determine if monitoring cases with these biomarkers leads to survival benefit.
Immunotherapies are some of the most promising emergent treatments for several cancers, yet there remains a majority of patients who do not benefit from them due to immune-resistant tumors. One avenue for enhancing treatment for these patients is by converting these tumors to an immunoreactive state, thereby restoring treatment efficacy. By leveraging regulatory networks we previously characterized in autoimmunity, here we show that overexpression of the master regulator IKZF1 leads to enhanced immune infiltrate recruitment and tumor sensitivity to PD1 and CTLA4 inhibitors in several tumors that normally lack IKZF1 expression. This work provides proof of concept that tumors can be rendered susceptible by hijacking immune cell recruitment signals through molecular master regulators. On a broader scale, this work also demonstrates the feasibility of using computational approaches to drive the discovery of novel molecular mechanisms toward treatment.
Intragenic deletion of IKZF1 is a recurrent genomic alteration in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The deletions are mediated by illegitimate variable(diversity)joining recombination via cryptic recombination signal sequences (RSSs). We developed a fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probe set that can detect any type of IKZF1 deletion, including the commonly deleted exon 4 to 7 region. The probe set consists of a designed probe for the commonly deleted region (Cy3; red) and a bacterial artificial chromosomes clone probe for detecting the 3' flanking region (Spectrum Green). Intact IKZF1 showed a fusion signal, and the deleted allele showed loss of the red signal (0R1G1F). The FISH probes worked correctly for human leukemic cell lines and clinical samples. One case showed an atypical break-apart signal (1R1G1F). Inverse PCR of the case revealed rearrangement of the excised IKZF1 fragment into a legitimate RSS site at Ig κ on chromosome 2, suggesting a pathogenic role of this recombination-activating gene 1/2-mediated event. In this study, we established FISH probe detecting IKZF1 deletion in a quick, quantitative, and cost-effective manner, and the results provided a novel insight into B-cell receptor editing by rearrangement of a cryptic RSS-mediated genomic fragment in acute lymphoblastic leukemia pathology.
BACKGROUND: Fusion genes are good candidates of molecular targets for cancer therapy. However, there is insufficient research on the clinical implications and functional characteristics of fusion genes in colorectal cancer (CRC).METHODS: In this study, we analysed RNA sequencing data of CRC patients (147 tumour and 47 matched normal tissues) to identify oncogenic fusion genes and evaluated their role in CRC.RESULTS: We validated 24 fusion genes, including novel fusions, by three algorithms and Sanger sequencing. Fusions from most patients were mutually exclusive CRC oncogenes and included tumour suppressor gene mutations. Eleven fusion genes from 13 patients (8.8%) were determined as oncogenic fusion genes by analysing their gene expression and function. To investigate their oncogenic impact, we performed proliferation and migration assays of CRC cell lines expressing fusion genes of GTF3A-CDK8, NAGLU- IKZF3, RNF121- FOLR2, and STRN-ALK. Overexpression of these fusion genes increased cell proliferation except GTF3A-CDK8. In addition, overexpression of NAGLU-IKZF3 enhanced migration of CRC cells. We demonstrated that NAGLU-IKZF3, RNF121-FOLR2, and STRN-ALK had tumourigenic effects in CRC.CONCLUSION: In summary, we identified and characterised oncogenic fusion genes and their function in CRC, and implicated NAGLU-IKZF3 and RNF121-FOLR2 as novel molecular targets for personalised medicine development.
The immunomodulatory drugs, lenalidomide and pomalidomide yield high response rates in multiple myeloma patients, but are associated with a high rate of thrombocytopenia and increased risk of secondary hematologic malignancies. Here, we demonstrate that the immunomodulatory drugs induce self-renewal of hematopoietic progenitors and upregulate megakaryocytic colonies by inhibiting apoptosis and increasing proliferation of early megakaryocytic progenitors via down-regulation of IKZF1. In this process, the immunomodulatory drugs degrade IKZF1 and subsequently down-regulate its binding partner, GATA1. This results in the decrease of GATA1 targets such as ZFPM1 and NFE2, leading to expansion of megakaryocytic progenitors with concomitant inhibition of maturation of megakaryocytes. The down-regulation of GATA1 further decreases CCND1 and increases CDKN2A expression. Overexpression of GATA1 abrogated the effects of the immunomodulatory drugs and restored maturation of megakaryocytic progenitors. Our data not only provide the mechanism for the immunomodulatory drugs induced thrombocytopenia but also help to explain the higher risk of secondary malignancies and long-term cytopenia induced by enhanced cell cycling and subsequent exhaustion of the stem cell pool.
Primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) is an aggressive cancer with few treatment options. The immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) lenalidomide and pomalidomide have recently been shown to kill PEL cell lines, and lenalidomide is in clinical trials against PEL. IMiDs bind to the CRL4CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, leading to the acquisition of the Ikaros family zinc finger proteins 1 and 3 (IKZF1 and IKZF3), casein kinase 1 α (CK1α), and zinc finger protein 91 (ZFP91) as neosubstrates. IMiDs are effective against multiple myeloma because of degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 and the consequent loss of interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) and MYC expression. Lenalidomide is also effective in chromosome 5q deletion-associated myelodysplastic syndrome as a result of degradation of CK1α. An essential IKZF1-IRF4-MYC axis has recently been proposed to underlie the toxicity of IMiDs in PEL. Here, we further investigate IMiD effectors in PEL cell lines, based on genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screens for essential human genes. These screens and extensive validation experiments show that, of the 4 neosubstrates, only CK1α is essential for the survival of PEL cell lines. In contrast, IKZF1 and IKZF3 are dispensable, individually or in combination. IRF4 was critical in all 8 PEL cell lines tested, and surprisingly, IMiDs triggered downregulation of IRF4 expression independently of both IKZF1 and IKZF3. Reexpression of CK1α and/or IRF4 partially rescued PEL cell lines from IMiD-mediated toxicity. In conclusion, IMiD toxicity in PEL cell lines is independent of IKZF1 and IKZF3 but proceeds through degradation of the neosubstrate CK1α and downregulation of IRF4.
OBJECTIVES: IKZF1 and IKZF3 (encoding transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos) are susceptibility loci for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The pharmacology of iberdomide (CC-220), a cereblon (CRBN) modulator targeting Ikaros and Aiolos, was studied in SLE patient cells and in a phase 1 healthy volunteer study.METHODS: CRBN, IKZF1 and IKZF3 gene expression was measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from patients with SLE and healthy volunteers. Ikaros and Aiolos protein levels were measured by Western blot and flow cytometry. Anti-dsDNA and anti-phospholipid autoantibodies were measured in SLE PBMC cultures treated for 7 days with iberdomide. Fifty-six healthy volunteers were randomised to a single dose of iberdomide (0.03-6 mg, n=6 across seven cohorts) or placebo (n=2/cohort). CD19+ B cells, CD3+ T cells and intracellular Aiolos were measured by flow cytometry. Interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-1β production was stimulated with anti-CD3 and lipopolysaccharide, respectively, in an ex vivo whole blood assay.RESULTS: SLE patient PBMCs expressed significantly higher CRBN (1.5-fold), IKZF1 (2.1-fold) and IKZF3 (4.1-fold) mRNA levels compared with healthy volunteers. Iberdomide significantly reduced Ikaros and Aiolos protein levels in B cells, T cells and monocytes. In SLE PBMC cultures, iberdomide inhibited anti-dsDNA and anti-phospholipid autoantibody production (IC50 ≈10 nM). Single doses of iberdomide (0.3-6 mg) in healthy volunteers decreased intracellular Aiolos (minimum mean per cent of baseline: ≈12%-28% (B cells); ≈0%-33% (T cells)), decreased absolute CD19+ B cells, increased IL-2 and decreased IL-1β production ex vivo.CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate pharmacodynamic activity of iberdomide and support its further clinical development for the treatment of SLE.TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT01733875; Results.
To investigate the prognosis of patients with adult B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) with Ikaros family zinc-finger 1 (IKZF1) mutation and determine the role of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) in improving the clinical outcome, we detected the IKZF1 mutation and BCR-ABL fusion gene at diagnosis in the bone marrow of 164 adult patients with B-ALL, and analyzed the clinical data of these patients retrospectively. Our analysis showed that grade III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease and IKZF1 mutation in the transplantation group and age and IKZF1 mutation in the non-transplantation group were independent factors for poor prognosis by univariate and multivariate analyses.The 3-year overall survival (OS) and leukemia-free survival (LFS) rates were much lower in the IKZF1+/BCR-ABL+ subgroup than in the IKZF1+/BCR-ABL- and IKZF1-/BCR-ABL- subgroups in both the transplantation and non-transplantation groups. The 3-year OS and LFS rates were significantly higher in the transplantation group than in the non-transplantation group with IKZF1 mutation.The study demonstrated that IKZF1 mutation was an independent factor indicating the poor prognosis of adult B-ALL and much worse prognosis in the BCR-ABL+ subgroup in both non-transplantation and transplantation groups. However, allo-HSCT significantly improved the OS and LFS of patients and also their clinical outcomes.
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI) ALL Consortium Protocol 05-001 tested a new risk stratification system in children and adolescents with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). At study entry, B-ALL patients were classified as standard risk (SR) or high risk (HR) based on age, white blood cell (WBC) count, and central nervous system status. After achieving complete remission (CR), patients with high end-induction minimal residual disease (MRD) (≥10-3 by polymerase chain reaction analysis of patient-specific antigen receptor rearrangements) and/or adverse cytogenetics (KMT2A rearrangement or hypodiploidy) were reclassified as very high risk (VHR) and received intensified therapy. IKZF1 deletion status was retrospectively evaluated by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. Between 2005 and 2011, 678 Philadelphia chromosome-negative B-ALL patients aged 1 to 18 years enrolled; 651 achieved CR and 648 received a final risk group. Among all 678 patients, 5-year event-free survival (EFS) was 87% (95% confidence interval [CI], 84-89) and overall survival 93% (95% CI, 90-94). Five-year disease-free survival of SR patients (N = 407) was 94% (95% CI, 91-96), HR (N = 176) was 84% (95% CI, 77-88), and VHR (N = 65) was 79% (95% CI, 67-87). IKZF1 deletion was present in 62 of 385 (16%) assessed patients and was associated with inferior 5-year EFS (63%; 95% CI, 49%-74% vs 88%; 95% CI, 84%-91%; P < .001), and higher 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse, including among those with low MRD (24% vs 8%, P = .001). In multivariable analysis, age ≥15 years, WBC ≥50 × 109/L, IKZF1 deletion, and MRD ≥10-4 was each associated with inferior outcome. In conclusion, risk-stratified therapy on DFCI 05-001 resulted in favorable outcomes for B-ALL patients, including those with VHR features. IKZF1 deletion was an independent predictor of inferior outcome. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00400946.
Differentiation of blood cells is one of the most complex processes in the body. It is regulated by the action of transcription factors in time and space which creates a specific signaling network. In the hematopoietic signaling system, Notch is one of the main regulators of lymphocyte development. The aim of this study was to get insight into the regulation of Notch signalization and the influence of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) activity on this process in three leukemia cell lines obtained from B and T cells. PARP1 is an enzyme involved in posttranslational protein modification and chromatin structure changes. B and T leukemia cells were treated with Notch and PARP inhibitors, alone or in combination, for a prolonged period. The cells did not show cell proliferation arrest or apoptosis. Analysis of gene and protein expression set involved in Notch and PARP pathways revealed increase in JAGGED1 expression after PARP1 inhibition in B cell lines and changes in Ikaros family members in both B and T cell lines after &gamma;-secretase inhibition. These data indicate that Notch and PARP inhibition, although not inducing differentiation in leukemia cells, induce changes in signaling circuits and chromatin modelling factors.
We prospectively examined whether surface expression of Cytokine Receptor-Like Factor 2 (CRLF2) on leukemic blasts is associated with survival and induction treatment response in pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) patients. Flow cytometric analysis of bone marrow-derived leukemia cells revealed that 7.51% (29/286) of 386 pediatric BCP-ALL patients were CRLF2-positive (CRLF2pos) at diagnosis. The median minimal residual disease (MRD) was lower in CRLF2pos than CRLF2-negative (CRLF2neg) patients on day 15 (MRD15) after induction therapy [0.01% (0.001-0.42%) vs. 0.45% (0.05-3.50%); p=0.001]. By contrast, the MRD15 was higher in Ikaros family Zinc Finger Protein 1 (IKZF1)-deleted BCP-ALL patients than in BCP-ALL patients without IKZF1 deletions [1.18% (0.06-12.0%) vs 0.33% (0.03-2.6%); p=0.003]. Subgroup analysis showed that MRD15 levels were lower in IKZF1Δ/CRLF2pos patients than in IKZF1Δ/CRLF2neg patients [0.1% (0.02-5.06%) vs. 2.9% (0.25-12%); p=0.005]. Furthermore, MRD15 levels were higher in IKZF1WT/CRLF2neg patients than in IKZF1WT/CRLF2pos patients [0.40% (0.04-2.7%) vs. 0.001% (0.001-0.01%)]. Despite the low MRD15 levels, IKZF1Δ/CRLF2pos patients showed poorer relapse-free survival (RFS) than other patient groups (p=0.003). These findings demonstrate that surface CRLF2 expression is associated with increased risk of relapse in pediatric BCP-ALL patients harboring IKZF1 deletions.
Macrophage activation by bacterial LPS leads to induction of a complex inflammatory gene program dependent on numerous transcription factor families. The transcription factor Ikaros has been shown to play a critical role in lymphoid cell development and differentiation; however, its function in myeloid cells and innate immune responses is less appreciated. Using comprehensive genomic analysis of Ikaros-dependent transcription, DNA binding, and chromatin accessibility, we describe unexpected dual repressor and activator functions for Ikaros in the LPS response of murine macrophages. Consistent with the described function of Ikaros as transcriptional repressor, Ikzf1-/- macrophages showed enhanced induction for select responses. In contrast, we observed a dramatic defect in expression of many delayed LPS response genes, and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing analyses support a key role for Ikaros in sustained NF-κB chromatin binding. Decreased Ikaros expression in Ikzf1+/- mice and human cells dampens these Ikaros-enhanced inflammatory responses, highlighting the importance of quantitative control of Ikaros protein level for its activator function. In the absence of Ikaros, a constitutively open chromatin state was coincident with dysregulation of LPS-induced chromatin remodeling, gene expression, and cytokine responses. Together, our data suggest a central role for Ikaros in coordinating the complex macrophage transcriptional program in response to pathogen challenge.
BACKGROUND: Co-inhibitory receptors (IR), such as TIGIT and FCRL3, provide a checkpoint against highly destructive immune responses. Co-expression of TIGIT and FCRL3, in particular, has been linked to the HELIOS+ subset of regulatory CD4+FOXP3+T-cells. Of these, CD4+FOXP3-exon(E)2+ cells have higher expression of IR and exhibit strongest suppressive properties. Nevertheless, how the expression of TIGIT, FCRL3, HELIOS, and FOXP3E2 is regulated in chronic autoimmune thyroiditis (AT), is not known.METHODS: Thirty patients with AT [encompassing spontaneously euthyroid (euAT), hypothyroid-untreated and L-thyroxine-treated cases)] and 10 healthy controls (HC) were recruited. FCRL3, TIGIT, HELIOS and FOXP3E2 mRNA expression levels in peripheral blood (PB) T cells were measured via quantitative real-time PCR and compared to clinicopathological factors.RESULTS: The TIGIT and FCRL3 expression levels from T cells of AT cases were inversely related to the thyroid volume, and were significantly increased in hypothyroid patients (on+off L-thyroxine), but not euAT cases. The FCRL3 expression in PB T cells positively correlated with thyroid-peroxidase autoantibody levels; by contrast, T cells from aged AT patients and combined samples (AT+HC) accumulated more TIGIT mRNA. The patients with higher TIGIT mRNA levels had a greater prevalence of hypothyroidism, showing higher peak thyrotropin levels at diagnosis or at follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: Multiple IR, namely FCRL3 and TIGIT, but not the transcription factors HELIOS and FOXP3E2, showed increased mRNA levels in PB T cells from end-stage, long-standing and/or more aggressive AT, in proportion to disease severity. A relation with major clinical subphenotypes was observed, thereby identifying IR as potentially important players in AT.
Ikaros/IKZF1 is an essential transcription factor expressed throughout hematopoiesis. IKZF1 is implicated in lymphocyte and myeloid differentiation and negative regulation of cell proliferation. In humans, somatic mutations in IKZF1 have been linked to the development of B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in children and adults. Recently, heterozygous germline IKZF1 mutations have been identified in patients with a B cell immune deficiency mimicking common variable immunodeficiency. These mutations demonstrated incomplete penetrance and led to haploinsufficiency. Herein, we report 7 unrelated patients with a novel early-onset combined immunodeficiency associated with de novo germline IKZF1 heterozygous mutations affecting amino acid N159 located in the DNA-binding domain of IKZF1. Different bacterial and viral infections were diagnosed, but Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia was reported in all patients. One patient developed a T cell ALL. This immunodeficiency was characterized by innate and adaptive immune defects, including low numbers of B cells, neutrophils, eosinophils, and myeloid dendritic cells, as well as T cell and monocyte dysfunctions. Notably, most T cells exhibited a naive phenotype and were unable to evolve into effector memory cells. Functional studies indicated these mutations act as dominant negative. This defect expands the clinical spectrum of human IKZF1-associated diseases from somatic to germline, from haploinsufficient to dominant negative.
BACKGROUND: The control of auto-reactive cells is defective in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Regulatory T (Treg) cells which play a key role in the modulation of immune responses have an impaired function in RA. Foxp3 is a master regulator of Treg cells which its expression is under the tight control of epigenetic mechanisms. In the current study, we analyzed the epigenetic modulation of the Foxp3 Treg-specific demethylated region (TSDR) and Helios gene expression to determine Treg cells alteration in RA patients.METHODS: We have recruited 20 newly diagnosed patients with RA and 41 healthy controls in our study. The measurement of Foxp3 and Helios gene expression was performed by the real-time PCR technique and the methylation level of TSDR was analyzed by bisulfite treatment and quantitative methylation-specific PCR (Q-MSP).RESULTS: We found that RA patients had significantly lower level of Foxp3 gene expression and TSDR demethylation compared to healthy subjects (P < 0.001 and P = 0.006, respectively). Inversely, the Helios gene expression was elevated significantly in RA patients group (P = 0.048). We also observed a significant correlation between Foxp3 and Helios gene expression (P = 0.016) as well as a significant correlation between FoxP3 expression and demethylation rate of TSDR (P = 0.010).CONCLUSION: Our results suggested that both epigenetic modifications and Helios gene expression may have important roles in the pathogenesis of RA through their effects on Foxp3 gene expression.
Integrin alpha4/beta7 on circulating lymphocytes identifies them as gut-tropic, and can be targeted by the humanized antibody vedolizumab to treat inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). We found lymphocytes expressing alpha4/beta7 were significantly more responsive to the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, IL-7, and IL-21, and less responsive to the regulatory T cell (Treg)-supporting cytokine IL-2. Alpha4/beta7 was expressed by a smaller percent of FOXP3 + Helios+ thymically-derived Tregs (tTregs) than FOXP3 + Helios- peripherally-derived Tregs (pTregs) or FOXP3- effector T cells. Integrin alpha4/beta7+ CD4 T cells were also rare among cells expressing the Th2 marker CRTh2, but enriched in cells bearing the circulating T follicular helper cell marker CXCR5. Thus the effect of this anti-integrin therapy on the mucosal immune system may be more qualitative than quantitative, and selectively replace pro-inflammatory effector cells with Tregs and Th2 cells to facilitate immune tolerance in the mucosa without globally depleting lymphocytes from the intestinal mucosa.
BACKGROUND: Cell-free circulating tumour-derived DNA (ctDNA) can be detected by testing for methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 DNA, which has proven sensitivity for colorectal cancer (CRC). A prospective correlative biomarker study between presence of methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 in tissue and blood was conducted in cases with CRC to explore how detection of such ctDNA biomarkers relates to cancer characteristics, methylation in tissue and surgical resection of the primary cancer.METHODS: Enrolled patients with invasive CRC had blood collected at diagnosis, prior to any treatment or surgery (peri-diagnostic sample). A subgroup of patients also had cancer and adjacent non-neoplastic tissue collected at surgical resection, as well as a second blood sample collected within 12 months of surgery (post-surgery sample). DNA was extracted from all samples and assayed for methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 to determine the degree of methylation in tissue and the presence of ctDNA in blood.RESULTS: Of 187 cases providing peri-diagnostic blood samples, tissue was available in 91, and 93 provided at least one post-surgery blood sample for marker analysis. Significant methylation of either BCAT1 or IKZF1 was seen in 86/91 (94.5%) cancer tissues, with levels independent of stage and higher than that observed in adjacent non-neoplastic specimens (P < 0.001). ctDNA methylated in BCAT1 or IKZF1 was detected in 116 (62.0%) cases at diagnosis and was significantly more likely to be detected with later stage (P < 0.001) and distal tumour location (P = 0.004). Of the 91 patients who provided pre-and post-surgery blood samples, 47 patients were ctDNA-positive at diagnosis and 35 (74.5%) became negative after tumour resection.CONCLUSION: This study has shown that BCAT1 and IKZF1 methylation are common events in CRC with almost all cancer tissues showing significant levels of methylation in the two genes. The presence of ctDNA in blood is stage-related and show rapid reversion to negative following surgical resection. Monitoring methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 levels could therefore inform adequacy of surgical resection.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry number 12611000318987. Registered 25 March 2011.
T- and NK-cell lymphomas (TCL) are a heterogenous group of lymphoid malignancies with poor prognosis. In contrast to B-cell and myeloid malignancies, there are few preclinical models of TCLs, which has hampered the development of effective therapeutics. Here we establish and characterize preclinical models of TCL. We identify multiple vulnerabilities that are targetable with currently available agents (e.g., inhibitors of JAK2 or IKZF1) and demonstrate proof-of-principle for biomarker-driven therapies using patient-derived xenografts (PDXs). We show that MDM2 and MDMX are targetable vulnerabilities within TP53-wild-type TCLs. ALRN-6924, a stapled peptide that blocks interactions between p53 and both MDM2 and MDMX has potent in vitro activity and superior in vivo activity across 8 different PDX models compared to the standard-of-care agent romidepsin. ALRN-6924 induced a complete remission in a patient with TP53-wild-type angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma, demonstrating the potential for rapid translation of discoveries from subtype-specific preclinical models.
Thalidomide and its derivatives (lenalidomide, pomalidomide, avadomide, iberdomide hydrochoride, CC-885 and CC-90009) form the family of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs). Lenalidomide (CC5013, Revlimid®) was approved by the US FDA and the EMA for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) patients, low or intermediate-1 risk transfusion-dependent myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with chromosome 5q deletion [del(5q)] and relapsed and/or refractory mantle cell lymphoma following bortezomib. Lenalidomide has also been studied in clinical trials and has shown promising activity in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). Lenalidomide has anti-inflammatory effects and inhibits angiogenesis. Pomalidomide (CC4047, Imnovid® [EU], Pomalyst® [USA]) was approved for advanced MM insensitive to bortezomib and lenalidomide. Other IMiDs are in phases 1 and 2 of clinical trials. Cereblon (CRBN) seems to have an important role in IMiDs action in both lymphoid and myeloid hematological malignancies. Cereblon acts as the substrate receptor of a cullin-4 really interesting new gene (RING) E3 ubiquitin ligase CRL4CRBN. This E3 ubiquitin ligase in the absence of lenalidomide ubiquitinates CRBN itself and the other components of CRL4CRBN complex. Presence of lenalidomide changes specificity of CRL4CRBN which ubiquitinates two transcription factors, IKZF1 (Ikaros) and IKZF3 (Aiolos), and casein kinase 1α (CK1α) and marks them for degradation in proteasomes. Both these transcription factors (IKZF1 and IKZF3) stimulate proliferation of MM cells and inhibit T cells. Low CRBN level was connected with insensitivity of MM cells to lenalidomide. Lenalidomide decreases expression of protein argonaute-2, which binds to cereblon. Argonaute-2 seems to be an important drug target against IMiDs resistance in MM cells. Lenalidomide decreases also basigin and monocarboxylate transporter 1 in MM cells. MM cells with low expression of Ikaros, Aiolos and basigin are more sensitive to lenalidomide treatment. The CK1α gene (CSNK1A1) is located on 5q32 in commonly deleted region (CDR) in del(5q) MDS. Inhibition of CK1α sensitizes del(5q) MDS cells to lenalidomide. CK1α mediates also survival of malignant plasma cells in MM. Though, inhibition of CK1α is a potential novel therapy not only in del(5q) MDS but also in MM. High level of full length CRBN mRNA in mononuclear cells of bone marrow and of peripheral blood seems to be necessary for successful therapy of del(5q) MDS with lenalidomide. While transfusion independence (TI) after lenalidomide treatment is more than 60% in MDS patients with del(5q), only 25% TI and substantially shorter duration of response with occurrence of neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were achieved in lower risk MDS patients with normal karyotype treated with lenalidomide. Shortage of the biomarkers for lenalidomide response in these MDS patients is the main problem up to now.
In this study, we performed genetic analysis of 83 B cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) cell lines. First, we performed multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification analysis to identify copy number abnormalities (CNAs) in eight genes associated with B-ALL according to genetic subtype. In Ph+ B-ALL cell lines, the frequencies of IKZF1, CDKN2A/2B, BTG1, and PAX5 deletion were significantly higher than those in Ph- B-ALL cell lines. The frequency of CDKN2A/2B deletion in KMT2A rearranged cell lines was significantly lower than that in non-KMT2A rearranged cell lines. These findings suggest that CNAs are correlated with genetic subtype in B-ALL cell lines. In addition, we determined that three B-other ALL cell lines had IKZF1 deletions (YCUB-5, KOPN49, and KOPN75); we therefore performed comprehensive genetic analysis of these cell lines. YCUB-5, KOPN49, and KOPN75 had P2RY8-CRLF2, IgH-CRLF2, and PAX5-ETV6 fusions, respectively. Moreover, targeted capture sequencing revealed that YCUB-5 had JAK2 R683I and KRAS G12D, and KOPN49 had JAK2 R683G and KRAS G13D mutations. These data may contribute to progress in the field of leukemia research.
Comment on    Cancer Cell. 2018 May 14;33(5):937-948.e8.
In recent years, it has been recognized that regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a critical role in maintaining immune tolerance. Moreover, the expression of two markers named Helios and neurophilin-1 (NRP-1) has been highlighted in such cells. Helios, an intracellular transcription marker, largely differentiates twomost operative sub group of Tregs, namely naturally occurring (nTreg) and induced (iTreg) Tregs, and NRP-1 is reckoned as a membranous activity marker of Tregs. We aimed to count peripheral mononuclear cells expressing such markers in a group of type 1 diabetes patients to elucidate the possible role of Tregs in the pathogenesis of such disease and its complications. Blood samples from 61 adult patients with type 1 diabetes and 61 sex and age-matched healthy controls were tested to count two types of Tregs, namely naturally occurring and inducible types, according to the expression of cell surface markers of CD4/CD25/CD47-FITC/PE/APC and intracellular markers of FoxP3/Helios-PE-CY5/eFlour450 by flow cytometry, respectively.We also investigated the relation between expression of such markers with HbA1c, urine albumin/creatinine ratio (UACR), and common carotid intima thickness (CIMT). The circulatory frequency of both Helios+ and Helios- T-cells were significantly decreased in patients compared to those in healthy controls (p<0.001). There was also a significant decrease in circulatory frequency of Helios+ NRP-1+ and Helios- NRP-1+ cells in the patients compared to controls (p=0.029). According to expression of Helios and NRP-1 markers, the number and function of both Tregs were decreased in diabetic patients. Moreover, the neurophilin expression was inversely associated with complications of type 1 diabetes.
Somatic cells acquire stem cell-like properties during cancerous transformation; however, mechanisms through which committed cells develop stemness and malignancy remain largely unknown. Here we uncovered upregulated stem cell program in leukaemic lymphoblasts of patients with IKZF1 alterations by analysing the archived gene-expression profiling datasets. We then used a frequent IKZF1 deletion, IK6, as a model via transduction into human primitive haematopoietic cells, followed by xenotransplantation in mice. Immunophenotypically defined stem, pro-B, and immature/mature (IM/M)-B cells were collected from primary recipients for functional assay and transcriptome profiling. Successful reconstitution in secondary recipient mice revealed the stemness of IK6+ pro-B and IM/M-B cells. Upregulated stemness and malignancy programs in IK6+ cells confirmed IK6 effects. Interestingly, these programs corresponded to distinct canonical pathways. Remarkably, the pathway profile mapped in the modelled cells well mirrored that in patients' leukaemic cells; therefore, our study provides a seminal insight into the cancerous reprogramming of somatic cells.
BACKGROUND Baicalein can suppress the growth of multiple tumors, including multiple myeloma (MM), but the exact mechanisms remains elusive. Here, we investigated the exact mechanisms of the anti-myeloma activity of baicalein. MATERIAL AND METHODS Proliferation and rates of apoptosis of myeloma U266 cells exposed to baicalein were detected. Microarray, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, and Western blot analysis were applied to evaluate the mRNA and protein levels of associated molecules. Survival analysis of IKZF1 and IKZF3 was conducted as well. RESULTS Baicalein suppressed the growth and stimulated apoptosis of myeloma U266 cells in a dose- and time-dependent way. Baicalein increased mRNA level of CRBN, and further studies suggested that baicalein downregulated IKZF1 and IKZF3 on a post-transcriptional level. Although the differences did not reach statistical significance, IKZF1 and IKZF3 were associated with poor overall survival. CONCLUSIONS Our results suggest that baicalein suppresses the growth and promotes apoptosis of myeloma U266 cells through downregulating IKZF1 and IKZF3. Baicalein increased the expression of CRBN, which might exert a reversion effect on resistance of IMiDs. MM patients in IKZF1 and IKZF3 low-expression groups had better overall survival than those in IKZF1 and IKZF3 high-expression groups. Thus, the present results indicate that baicalein might be a therapeutic choice for targeting IKZF1 and IKZF3.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia is a hematopoietic malignant disease, which arises from a genetic defect in the T-cell maturation signaling pathway. As a result, it is necessary to identify the molecules that impact T-cell development and control lymphoid-lineage malignancy. The present study utilized Jurkat T lymphoblastic cells as a well-established approach for the investigation into the function of the non-canonical alternative splice variant of Helios for the in vitro study of T-cell differentiation and leukemogenesis. In the present study, the Jurkat T-cell lines with stable overexpression of the wild-type (Helios-1) or the non-canonical short isoform (Helios-Δ326-1431), were established. RNA microarray, reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and flow cytometry were used to assess changes in the gene expression profiles and to monitor the cell surface markers during T-cell differentiation. Multiple genes associated with T-cell differentiation and leukemogenesis were identified as being either activated or suppressed. In addition, the results indicated that the stable overexpression of the Helios isoforms stimulated the differentiation pathway of the T-lineage lymphoblastic cells. Therefore, these results suggest that full-length Helios-1 has a tumor suppressor-like and immunomodulatory role, in contrast to the oncogenic function of the non-canonical short isoform Helios-Δ326-1431.
The immunomodulatory drug thalidomide, and its analogs, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide (IMiDs), have become essential components of the standard treatment for multiple myeloma (MM), and have led to significant improvement of survival in patients with this devastating disease. Cereblon (CRBN), the direct target of IMiDs, has been proposed as a predictive biomarker of response to IMiDs. Using standard immunohistochemistry in formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) bone marrow samples of 23 patients treated with a lenalidomide-containing regimen, we found that the malignant plasma cells of all the patients stained positive for CRBN, IKZF1, and IKZF3, regardless of sensitivity to IMiDs. Moreover, we detected no mutations in CRBN, IKZF1, IKZF3, CUL4A, or IRF4, but found expanded TP53-mutated clones in two out of seven sequential samples. Thus, our data argue against the use of CRBN and its downstream targets as predictive biomarkers of IMiD response in MM and confirm clonal evolution patterns during lenalidomide resistance.
IKAROS (encoded by IKZF1) is an important hematopoietic transcription factor critical for early B cell differentiation, with major defects known to lead to low B cell numbers and hypogammaglobulinemia. More perplexing is the link between IKZF1 variants and autoimmunity, including polymorphisms associated with susceptibility to SLE, and recently, rare variants driving monogenic autoimmunity. We identified a novel p.L188V mutation in IKZF1 in the index patient and her father and found this mutation to lead to loss of DNA binding. Peripheral B cells lacking a full complement of IKAROS function show upregulation of molecules accentuating B cell activation, while CD22, a key negative feedback circuit, is suppressed. The resulting hyperresponsiveness of peripheral B cells, in combination with elevated follicular helper T cell (Tfh) numbers, provides a putative mechanistic explanation for the association of IKZF1 variants with the emergence of autoimmune manifestations in this kindred.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder in which immunological imbalance has been suggested to be a major etiological component. Helios, a transcription factor, has been studied extensively in the context of human T cell regulation in health and disease, yet the role of Helios signaling has not been examined in children with ASD. In the present study, we investigated the production of Helios in CD4+, CD8+, and TIM-3+, CXCR3+ cells in typically developing (TD) controls and children with ASD and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). We assayed the production of IFN-γ+Helios+, IL-21+Helios+, T-bet+Helios+, and Foxp3+Helios+ cells, and determined Helios mRNA and protein expression levels in PBMCs, in TD controls and children with ASD. Our results revealed that children with ASD had lower numbers of CD4+Helios+ CD8+Helios+, TIM-3+Helios+, and CXCR3+Helios+ cells as compared to TD controls. Our results also showed that children with ASD had decreased IFN-γ+Helios+, IL-21+Helios+, T-bet+Helios+, and Helios+Foxp3+ production compared to that in TD controls. Moreover, our results indicated that children with ASD had lower Helios mRNA and protein expression levels compared to those in TD controls. These results suggest that the Helios transcription factor may be critical to immune alterations in children with ASD. Therefore, our results suggest that targeting Helios signaling might offer a strategy for developing ASD therapies.
Comment in    Cancer Cell. 2018 May 14;33(5):798-800.
The transcription factor (TF) interferon regulatory factor-4 (IRF4) promotes both germinal center (GC) reactions and plasma cell (PC) differentiation by binding to alternative DNA motifs including AP-1-IRF composite elements, Ets-IRF composite elements (EICEs), and interferon sequence response elements (ISREs). Although all of these motifs mediate transcriptional activation by IRF4, it is still unknown how some of the IRF4 target genes are downregulated upon PC differentiation. Here, we revealed a molecular mechanism of IRF4-mediated gene downregulation during PC differentiation. By combining IRF4 chromatin immunoprecipitation sequence and gene expression analysis, we identified zinc finger-IRF composite elements (ZICEs) in IRF4 binding regions aligned with genes whose expression was downregulated in PCs. The zinc finger TFs Ikaros and Aiolos were identified as IRF4 binding partners in PCs, and Ikaros but not Aiolos was essential for IRF4 binding to the ZICE sequence and for PC differentiation. The Ebf1 gene, which positively controls B-cell activation and GC reactions, was identified as one of the Ikaros/IRF4 target genes. Importantly, while the ZICE embeds the ISRE motif, IRF4 bound the ZICE motif as heterodimers with Ikaros for repression of target genes, which include Ebf1 In contrast, if the zinc finger motif is juxtaposed to the EICE motif, the Ikaros/PU.1/IRF4 complex functioned to activate target gene expression. Our findings revealed a novel mode of IRF4 activity upon PC differentiation where upon forming an Ikaros/IRF4 DNA-bound complex, a subset of genes is repressed.
Ikaros family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) is a haematopoietic transcription factor required for mammalian B-cell development. IKZF1 deficiency also reduces plasmacytoid dendritic cell (pDC) numbers in mice, but its effects on human DC development are unknown. Here we show that heterozygous mutation of IKZF1 in human decreases pDC numbers and expands conventional DC1 (cDC1). Lenalidomide, a drug that induces proteosomal degradation of IKZF1, also decreases pDC numbers in vivo, and reduces the ratio of pDC/cDC1 differentiated from progenitor cells in vitro in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, non-classical monocytes are reduced by IKZF1 deficiency in vivo. DC and monocytes from patients with IKZF1 deficiency or lenalidomide-treated cultures secrete less IFN-α, TNF and IL-12. These results indicate that human DC development and function are regulated by IKZF1, providing further insights into the consequences of IKZF1 mutation on immune function and the mechanism of immunomodulation by lenalidomide.
INTRODUCTION: Recent clinical outcomes of pediatric Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ALL) vastly improved owing to tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). However, the genetic status would be different in each case with ABL1 gene mutation or copy number variants (CNVs) such as IKZF1 deletion. In particular, the TKI resistant clone with ABL1 kinase mutation remains problematic. The comprehensive assessment of genetic status including mutation, insertion and deletion (indel) and CNVs is necessary.METHODS: We evaluated a next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based customized HaloPlex target enrichment system panel to simultaneously detect coding mutations, indel and CNVs. We analysed approximately 160 known genes associated with hematological disorders in 5 pediatric Ph+ALL patients.RESULTS: Mono-allelic IKZF1 deletions were found in 4 patients at diagnosis. Furthermore, the mono-allelic deletions were found in exons of RB1, EBF1, PAX5 and ETV6 genes. Bi-allelic deletions were detected in CDKN2A and CDKN2B genes in 1 patient. ABL1 mutation was also detected in 1 patient at relapse. These results were almost comparable with the results of the multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) method or Sanger sequence.CONCLUSION: Next-generation sequencing-based custom HaloPlex target enrichment system panel allows us to detect the coding mutations, indel, and CNVs in pediatric Ph+ALL simultaneously, and its results seem comparable with those of other methods.
The multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) method was used to detect the copy number alterations (CNAs) of IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1), paired box 5 (PAX5), ETS variant 6 (ETV6), RB transcriptional corepressor 1 (RB1), BTG anti-proliferation factor 1 (BTG1), early B-cell factor 1 (EBF1), cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 2A/2B (CDKN2A/2B) and cytokine receptor like factor 2 (CRLF2) genes in 87 adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in China. The effects of CNAs on prognosis were analyzed. Gene deletions were detected in 58/87 (66.7%) ALL patients. The most common deletions were observed in the following genes: IKZF1 (40.6%), CDKN2A (31.9%), CDKN2B (29%), PAX5 (21.7%), RB1 (14.5%) and BTG1 (10.1%). B cell-ALL (B-ALL) patients with CDKN2A/2B deletions exhibited poor 2-year overall survival (OS; P=0.055) and relapse-free survival (RFS; P=0.054) rates. CDKN2A/2B deletions were associated with poor 2-year OS (P=0.045) and RFS (P=0.071) rates in Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) B-ALL patients, as well as in the high risk (HR) B-ALL group (P=0.037 and P=0.047, respectively). Patients with PAX5 deletions displayed poor 2-year OS (P=0.004) and RFS (P=0.016) rates in Philadelphia chromosome negative (Ph-) B-ALL patients. Patients with ≥3 gene deletions exhibited a poorer prognosis than other patients (OS, P=0.001; RFS, 0.002).
B cell activation during normal immune responses and oncogenic transformation impose increased metabolic demands on B cells and their ability to retain redox homeostasis. While the serine/threonine-protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) was identified as a tumor suppressor in multiple types of cancer, our genetic studies revealed an essential role of PP2A in B cell tumors. Thereby, PP2A redirects glucose carbon utilization from glycolysis to the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) to salvage oxidative stress. This unique vulnerability reflects constitutively low PPP activity in B cells and transcriptional repression of G6PD and other key PPP enzymes by the B cell transcription factors PAX5 and IKZF1. Reflecting B-cell-specific transcriptional PPP-repression, glucose carbon utilization in B cells is heavily skewed in favor of glycolysis resulting in lack of PPP-dependent antioxidant protection. These findings reveal a gatekeeper function of the PPP in a broad range of B cell malignancies that can be efficiently targeted by small molecule inhibition of PP2A and G6PD.
Protein analysis in bone marrow samples from patients with multiple myeloma has been limited by the low concentration of proteins obtained after CD138+ cell selection. A novel approach based on capillary nano-immunoassay could make it possible to quantify dozens of proteins from each myeloma sample in an automated manner. Here we present a method for the accurate and robust quantification of the expression of multiple proteins extracted from CD138-purified multiple myeloma samples frozen in RLT Plus buffer, which is commonly used for nucleic acid preservation and isolation. Additionally, the biological and clinical value of this analysis for a panel of 12 proteins essential to the pathogenesis of multiple myeloma was evaluated in 63 patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. The analysis of the prognostic impact of CRBN/Cereblon and IKZF1/Ikaros mRNA/protein showed that only the protein levels were able to predict progression-free survival of patients; mRNA levels were not associated with prognosis. Interestingly, high levels of Cereblon and Ikaros proteins were associated with longer progression-free survival only in patients who received immunomodulatory drugs and not in those treated with other drugs. In conclusion, the capillary nano-immunoassay platform provides a novel opportunity for automated quantification of the expression of more than 20 proteins in CD138+ primary multiple myeloma samples.
Transcription factor IKZF1 (IKAROS) acts as a critical regulator of lymphoid differentiation and is frequently deleted or mutated in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia. IKZF1 gene defects are associated with inferior treatment outcome in both childhood and adult B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia and occur in more than 70% of BCR-ABL1-positive and BCR-ABL1-like cases of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Over the past few years, much has been learned about the tumor suppressive function of IKZF1 during leukemia development and the molecular pathways that relate to its impact on treatment outcome. In this review, we provide a concise overview on the role of IKZF1 during normal lymphopoiesis and the pathways that contribute to leukemia pathogenesis as a consequence of altered IKZF1 function. Furthermore, we discuss different mechanisms by which IKZF1 alterations impose therapy resistance on leukemic cells, including enhanced cell adhesion and modulation of glucocorticoid response.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: The IKZF3 gene encodes a zinc-finger protein that plays an important role in the proliferation and differentiation of B lymphocytes. Autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs), mainly include Graves' disease (GD) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), are probably caused by the aberrant proliferation of B cells. The objective of this study was to explore the association between IKZF3 polymorphisms and AITDs.METHODS: We examined 915 AITD patients (604 GD and 311 HT) and 814 healthy controls. IKZF3 variants (rs2941522, rs907091, rs1453559, rs12150079 and rs2872507) were tested by PCR-ligase detection reaction.RESULTS: It was manifested that that the minor alleles of the five loci increased susceptibility to GD (p<0.05 for rs2941522, and p<0.01 for rs907091, rs1453559, rs12150079 and rs2872507) but in HT patients, these loci showed no significant difference compared with controls. Similarly, the genotype distributions of GD patients manifested obvious differences in all these loci compared with the control group, whereas no statistical differences were observed between HT patients and controls. Furthermore, bioinformatics tools were used to analyze rs1453559, rs12150079 and rs907091. These variants were believed to be the transcription regulator.CONCLUSION: It is the first time we reported the association between the IKZF3 polymorphisms and GD, indicating that IKZF3 gene tends to bean important risk factor for the development of GD.
Recurrent chromosomal rearrangements carry prognostic significance in pediatric B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Recent genome-wide analyses identified a high-risk B-ALL subtype characterized by a diverse spectrum of genetic alterations activating kinases and cytokine receptor genes. This subtype is associated with a poor prognosis when treated with conventional chemotherapy but has demonstrated sensitivity to the relevant tyrosine kinase inhibitors. We sought to determine the frequency of kinase-activating fusions among National Cancer Institute (NCI) high-risk, Ph-negative, B-ALL patients enrolled on Dana-Farber Cancer Institute ALL Consortium Protocol 05-001 and to describe their associated clinical characteristics and outcomes. Among the 105 patients screened, 16 (15%) harbored an ABL-class fusion (ETV6-ABL1: n = 1; FOXP1-ABL1: n = 1; SFPQ-ABL1: n = 1; ZC3HAV1-ABL2: n = 1) or a fusion activating the JAK-STAT pathway (P2RY8-CRLF2: n = 8; PAX5-JAK2: n = 4). Sixty-nine percent of patients with an identified fusion had a concomitant IKZF1 deletion (n = 11). In univariate analysis, fusion-positivity and IKZF1 deletion were each associated with inferior event-free survival; IKZF1 deletion retained statistical significance in multivariable analysis (hazard ratio, 2.64; P = .019). Our findings support therapy intensification for IKZF1-altered patients, irrespective of the presence of a kinase-activating fusion.
Purpose Somatic deletions that affect the lymphoid transcription factor-coding gene IKZF1 have previously been reported as independently associated with a poor prognosis in pediatric B-cell precursor (BCP) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We have now refined the prognostic strength of IKZF1 deletions by analyzing the effect of co-occurring deletions. Patients and Methods The analysis involved 991 patients with BCP ALL treated in the Associazione Italiana Ematologia ed Oncologia Pediatrica-Berlin-Frankfurt-Muenster (AIEOP-BFM) ALL 2000 trial with complete information for copy number alterations of IKZF1, PAX5, ETV6, RB1, BTG1, EBF1, CDKN2A, CDKN2B, Xp22.33/Yp11.31 (PAR1 region; CRLF2, CSF2RA, and IL3RA), and ERG; replication of findings involved 417 patients from the same trial. Results IKZF1 deletions that co-occurred with deletions in CDKN2A, CDKN2B, PAX5, or PAR1 in the absence of ERG deletion conferred the worst outcome and, consequently, were grouped as IKZF1plus. The IKZF1plus group comprised 6% of patients with BCP ALL, with a 5-year event-free survival of 53 ± 6% compared with 79 ± 5% in patients with IKZF1 deletion who did not fulfill the IKZF1plus definition and 87 ± 1% in patients who lacked an IKZF1 deletion ( P ≤ .001). Respective 5-year cumulative relapse incidence rates were 44 ± 6%, 11 ± 4%, and 10 ± 1% ( P ≤ .001). Results were confirmed in the replication cohort, and multivariable analyses demonstrated independence of IKZF1plus. The IKZF1plus prognostic effect differed dramatically in analyses stratified by minimal residual disease (MRD) levels after induction treatment: 5-year event-free survival for MRD standard-risk IKZF1plus patients was 94 ± 5% versus 40 ± 10% in MRD intermediate- and 30 ± 14% in high-risk IKZF1plus patients ( P ≤ .001). Corresponding 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse rates were 6 ± 6%, 60 ± 10%, and 60 ± 17% ( P ≤ .001). Conclusion IKZF1plus describes a new MRD-dependent very-poor prognostic profile in BCP ALL. Because current AIEOP-BFM treatment is largely ineffective for MRD-positive IKZF1plus patients, new experimental treatment approaches will be evaluated in our upcoming trial AIEOP-BFM ALL 2017.
We have previously shown that immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) compounds induce a shift into immature myeloid precursors with a maturational arrest and subsequent neutropenia. The mechanism of action is unknown. Here we found that IMiD compounds cause selective ubiquitination and degradation of the transcription factor IKZF1 in CD34+ cells by the Cereblon (CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase. Loss of IKZF1 is associated with a decrease of the IKZF1-dependent transcription factor PU.1, critical for the development and maturation of neutrophils. Using a thalidomide analog bead pull-down assay, we showed that IMiD compounds directly bind CRBN in CD34+ cells. Knockdown of CRBN in CD34+ cells resulted in resistance to POM-induced IKZF1 downregulation and reversed the POM-induced lineage shift in colony-formation assays, suggesting that the POM-induced degradation of IKZF1 in CD34+ cells requires CRBN. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that IKZF1 binds to the promoter region of PU.1, suggesting that PU.1 is a direct downstream target of IKZF1 in CD34+ cells. POM failed to induce IKZF1 degradation in IKZF1-Q146H-OE CD34+ cells, indicating that CRBN binding to IKZF1 and subsequent IKZF1 ubiquitination is critical in this process. Using the NOD/SCID/γ-c KO mouse model, we confirmed the induction of myeloid progenitor cells by IMiD compounds at the expense of common lymphoid progenitors. These results demonstrate a novel mechanism of action of IMiD compounds in hematopoietic progenitor cells, leading to selective degradation of transcription factors critical for myeloid maturation, and explain the occurrence of neutropenia associated with treatment by IMiD compounds.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) characterized by the transcription factor forkhead box P3 (FoxP3) are crucial for maintaining immune tolerance and preventing autoimmunity. However, FoxP3 does not function alone and Helios is considered a potential candidate for defining Treg subsets. In this study, we investigated the expression and function of Helios for identifying Tregs in childhood precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (pre-B ALL). Our results demonstrated that patients with pre-B ALL had a higher percentage of Helios+ FoxP3+ CD4+ Tregs. And there was a positive correlation between the expression of Helios and the suppressive function of Tregs, the risk gradation of ALL. Helios in combination with CD4 and FoxP3 may be an effective way to detect functional Tregs in pre-B ALL by promoting the secretion of transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1. Furthermore, Helios+ Tregs could regulate angiogenesis in the BM niche of pre-B ALL via the VEGFA/VEGFR2 pathway. We also found Helios+ Tregs decreased apoptosis rate of nalm-6 cells by up-regulating the expression of anti-apoptosis protein Bcl-2. In summary, these data strongly imply the physiological importance of Helios expression in Tregs, and suggest that the manipulation of Helios may serve as a novel strategy for cancer immunotherapy.
E14a3 breakpoint cluster region (BCR)/ABL proto-oncogene 1, non-receptor tyrosine kinase (ABL) fusion transcript is rare in Philadelphia chromosome positive disease, particularly in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Recently an e14a3 fusion transcript was detected by multiple laboratory examinations, and the patient was suffering from ALL. Except for the BCR/ABL fusion gene, in the present study the patient additionally had an IKAROS family zinc finger 1 deletion which, has been confirmed as a significant adverse prognosis factor. Following 2 rounds of chemotherapy, the patient presented cytological remission; however, the patient then relapsed 2 months later. They then received chimeric antigen receptor modified (CAR-modified) T-cell therapy and achieved complete remission. CAR-modified T-cell therapy is a powerful novel therapy which, exhibited great potential for treating refractory ALL, regardless of the existence and form of the BCR/ABL fusion transcript.
Human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) elite controllers (ELCs) represent a unique population that control viral replication in the absence of antiretroviral therapy (cART). It is well established that expression of multiple inhibitory receptors on CD8+ T cells is associated with HIV-1 disease progression. However, whether reduced co-expression of inhibitory receptors on CD4+ T cells is linked to natural viral control and slow HIV-1 disease progression remains undefined. Here, we report on the expression pattern of numerous measurable inhibitory receptors, associated with T cell exhaustion (programmed cell death-1, CTLA-4, and TIGIT), on different CD4+ T cell memory populations in ELCs and HIV-infected subjects with or without long-term cART. We found that the co-expression pattern of inhibitory receptors was significantly reduced in ELCs compared with HIV-1 cART-treated and viremic subjects, and similar to healthy controls. Markers associated with T cell exhaustion varied among different memory CD4+ T cell subsets and highest levels were found mainly on transitional memory T cells. CD4+ T cells co-expressing all inhibitory markers were positively correlated to T cell activation (CD38+ HLA-DR+) as well as the transcription factors Helios and FoxP3. Finally, clinical parameters such as CD4 count, HIV-1 viral load, and the CD4/CD8 ratio all showed significant associations with CD4+ T cell exhaustion. We demonstrate that ELCs are able to maintain lower levels of CD4+ T cell exhaustion despite years of ongoing viral replication compared with successfully cART-treated subjects. Our findings suggest that ELCs harbor a "healthy" state of inhibitory receptor expression on CD4+ T cells that might play part in maintenance of their control status.
Human embryonic stem cell-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hE-MSCs) have greater proliferative capacity than other human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs), suggesting that they may have wider applications in regenerative cellular therapy. In this study, to uncover the anti-senescence mechanism in hE-MSCs, we compared hE-MSCs with adult bone marrow (hBM-MSCs) and found that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) was more abundantly expressed in hE-MSCs than in hBM-MSCs and that it induced the transcription of RAD51 and facilitated its SUMOylation at K70. RAD51 induction/modification by HGF not only increased telomere length but also increased mtDNA replication, leading to increased ATP generation. Moreover, HGF-treated hBM-MSCs showed significantly better therapeutic efficacy than naive hBM-MSCs. Together, the data suggest that the RAD51-mediated effects of HGF prevent hMSC senescence by promoting telomere lengthening and inducing mtDNA replication and function, which opens the prospect of developing novel therapies for liver disease.
Multiple myeloma (MM) cells acquire dormancy and drug resistance via interaction with bone marrow stroma cells (BMSC) in a hypoxic microenvironment. Elucidating the mechanisms underlying the regrowth of dormant clones may contribute to further improvement of the prognosis of MM patients. In this study, we find that the CD180/MD-1 complex, a noncanonical lipopolysaccharide (LPS) receptor, is expressed on MM cells but not on normal counterparts, and its abundance is markedly upregulated under adherent and hypoxic conditions. Bacterial LPS and anti-CD180 antibody, but not other Toll-like receptor ligands, enhanced the growth of MM cells via activation of MAP kinases ERK and JNK in positive correlation with expression levels of CD180. Administration of LPS significantly increased the number of CD180/CD138 double-positive cells in a murine xenograft model when MM cells were inoculated with direct attachment to BMSC. Knockdown of CD180 canceled the LPS response in vitro and in vivo Promoter analyses identified IKZF1 (Ikaros) as a pivotal transcriptional activator of the CD180 gene. Both cell adhesion and hypoxia activated transcription of the CD180 gene by increasing Ikaros expression and its binding to the promoter region. Pharmacological targeting of Ikaros by the immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide ameliorated the response of MM cells to LPS in a CD180-dependent manner in vitro and in vivo Thus, the CD180/MD-1 pathway may represent a novel mechanism of growth regulation of MM cells in a BM milieu and may be a therapeutic target of preventing the regrowth of dormant MM cells.Significance: This study describes a novel mechanism by which myeloma cells are regulated in the bone marrow, where drug resistance and dormancy can evolve after treatment, with potential therapeutic implications for treating this often untreatable blood cancer. Cancer Res; 78(7); 1766-78. ©2018 AACR.
Although B cells reactive with islet autoantigens are silenced by tolerance mechanisms in healthy individuals, they can become activated and contribute to the development of type 1 diabetes. We previously demonstrated that high-affinity insulin-binding B cells (IBCs) occur exclusively in the anergic (BND) compartment in peripheral blood of healthy subjects. Consistent with their activation early in disease development, high-affinity IBCs are absent from the BND compartment of some first-degree relatives (FDRs) as well as all patients with autoantibody-positive prediabetes and new-onset type 1 diabetes, a time when they are found in pancreatic islets. Loss of BND IBCs is associated with a loss of the entire BND B-cell compartment consistent with provocation by an environmental trigger or predisposing genetic factors. To investigate potential mechanisms operative in subversion of B-cell tolerance, we explored associations between HLA and non-HLA type 1 diabetes-associated risk allele genotypes and loss of BNDs in FDRs. We found that high-risk HLA alleles and a subset of non-HLA risk alleles (i.e., PTPN2 [rs1893217], INS [rs689], and IKZF3 [rs2872507]), relevant to B- and T-cell development and function are associated with loss of anergy. Hence, the results suggest a role for risk-conferring alleles in perturbation of B-cell anergy during development of type 1 diabetes.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) performed mostly in populations of European and Hispanic ancestry have confirmed an inherited genetic basis for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but these associations are less clear in other races/ethnicities. DNA samples from ALL patients (aged 0-19 years) previously enrolled onto a Tokyo Children's Cancer Study Group trial were collected during 2013-2015, and underwent single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarray genotyping resulting in 527 B-cell ALL for analysis. Cases and control data for 3,882 samples from the Nagahama Study Group and Aichi Cancer Center Study were combined, and association analyses across 10 previous GWAS-identified regions were performed after targeted SNP imputation. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) patterns in Japanese and other populations were evaluated using the varLD score based on 1000 Genomes data. Risk associations for ARID5B (rs10821936, OR = 1.84, P = 6 × 10-17) and PIP4K2A (rs7088318, OR = 0.76, P = 2 × 10-4) directly transferred to Japanese, and the IKZF1 association was detected by an alternate SNP (rs1451367, OR = 1.52, P = 2 × 10-6). Marked regional LD differences between Japanese and Europeans was observed for most of the remaining loci for which associations did not transfer, including CEBPE, CDKN2A, CDKN2B, and ELK3. This study represents a first step towards characterizing the role of genetic susceptibility in childhood ALL risk in Japanese.
New therapies for Philadelphia chromosome-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL) patients are urgently needed. The genetic landscape of Ph-like ALL is characterized by a diverse array of kinase-activating alterations (including rearrangements, sequence mutations, and copy number alterations), suggesting that patients with Ph-like ALL are candidates for targeted therapy, similar to BCR-ABL1 ALL. We sought to investigate the functional role and targetability of the spectrum of kinase-activating alterations identified in Ph-like ALL. We demonstrate cytokine-independent growth and activation of JAK-STAT signaling pathways in Ba/F3 cells by all alterations tested. The development of murine Arf-/- pre-B ALL expressing RCSD1-ABL2 or SSBP2-CSF1R was accelerated with the presence of IK6, a dominant negative isoform of Ikaros common in Ph-like ALL, providing evidence that these fusions are leukemogenic. In vitro screening using a panel of tyrosine kinase inhibitors against 14 different kinase alterations identified the ABL1-inhibitor, dasatinib, as a potent inhibitor of ABL-class fusions (ABL1, ABL2, CSF1R, PDGFRB), whereas the JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor ruxolitinib, was most effective against JAK-STAT-activating alterations (JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, IL7R, IL2RB), but not TYK2. Evaluation of dasatinib or ruxolitinib against patient-derived xenograft models demonstrated superior antileukemic efficacy when combined with dexamethasone compared with either agent alone. These data provide the foundation for rationally designed clinical trials that assess the efficacy of targeted therapy in patients with Ph-like ALL.
Since two genome-wide association studies identified the same susceptible region at ARID5B and IKZF1 for acute leukemia in Caucasians in the same time, several research groups have confirmed the similar results in different ethnicities and of different acute leukemia subtypes (ALL and AML). However, the causal variants of these two genes were not identified. In this study, we systematically screened 6 potentially functional SNPs in ARID5B and IKZF1 genes, and conducted a case-control study including 660 AML cases and 1034 cancer-free controls to investigate the associations between these SNPs and AML risk. We found that the variant alleles of rs4509706 and rs11761922 could significantly increase the risk of AML (rs4509706: OR=1.35, 95%CI=1.12-1.62 in additive model; rs11761922: OR=1.29, 95%CI=1.02-1.62 in recessive model). Luciferase reporter assay showed that both rs11761922-G and rs4509706-C significantly increased the luciferase levels as compared with rs11761922-C and rs4509706-T in K562 cells (P<0.05 for rs11761922 and P<0.001 for rs4509706). Our results indicated that rs4509706 and rs11761922 may play important roles in AML development in Chinese population.
It is now clear that previously polarized T cells possess the ability to change their phenotype and repolarize towards different fates. This intrinsic flexibility is commonly referred to as plasticity and is influenced by the cytokine milieu, microbial products and products of metabolism which, in turn, regulate transcription factors and epigenetic machinery in the intestinal lamina propria. The intestinal immune system faces a particularly difficult challenge. It serves to protect the largest mucosal surface against infection and injury while maintaining a state of tolerance towards dietary antigens and the largest population of commensal organisms in the body. This requires a delicate balance between regulatory and effector T cells; loss of this balance is thought to lead to the development of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), collectively referred to as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). These unique immune-mediated inflammatory diseases are directed not at self-antigens but rather at the commensal microorganisms which reside within the gut lumen. However, it is thought that owing to persistence of these microbial antigens, intestinal damage and systemic inflammation ensue. New data from mouse models of IBD suggest that T cell plasticity, particularly along the Th1-Th17 and Th17-Treg axes, plays an important role in the regulation of intestinal immune responses. Furthermore, patients with IBD demonstrate increased numbers of "transdifferentiated" T cell populations suggestive of heightened plasticity. This review will consider the mechanisms and roles of Th17 plasticity in the pathogenesis of IBD.
BACKGROUND: Sequential stages of B-cell development is stringently coordinated by transcription factors (TFs) network that include B-lineage commitment TFs (Ikaros, Runx1/Cbfb, E2A, and FOXO1), B-lineage maintenance TFs (EBF1 and PAX5) and stage specific set of TFs (IRF4, IRF8, BCL6, BLIMP1). Deregulation of TFs expression and activity is often occurs in malignant B cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate TFs expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells taking into consideration CD150 cell surface expression. From other side we attempted to regulate TFs expression via CD150 and CD180 cell surface receptors.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Studies were performed on normal peripheral blood B-cell subpopulations and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells isolated from peripheral blood of 67 primary untreated patients with CLL. Evaluation of TFs expression was performed on mRNA level using qRT-PCR and on protein level by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Median of PAX5 and EBF1 mRNA expression was higher in cell surface CD150 positive (csCD150+) compared to csCD150- CLL cases or normal CD19+ and CD19+CD5+ B-cell subsets. Differences in mRNA expression of IRF8, IRF4 and BLIMP1 between studied groups of CLL and normal B cells were not revealed. All CLL cases were characterized by downregulated expression of PU.1 and BCL6 mRNAs in comparison to normal B cells. At the same time elevated SPIB mRNA expression level was restricted to CLL cells. Protein expression of IRF4, IRF8 and BCL6 was uniformly distributed between csCD150- and csCD150+ CLL cases. PU.1 protein and CD20 that is direct PU.1 target gene positively correlated with CD150 cell surface expression on CLL cells. Ligation of CD150 and CD180 alone or in combination upregulated IRF8 and PU.1 while downregulated the IRF4 mRNA expression. Signaling via CD150 or CD180 alone elevated the level of BCL6 mRNA. Strong downregulation of IRF4 mRNA was observed after CD150, CD180 or CD150 andCD180 coligation on CLL cells. We found that in CLL cells CD150 is a negative regulator of SPIB while CD180 is involved in upregulation of EBF1 expression level. Moreover, CD180 ligation on CLL cells caused increase of CD150 mRNA level that is a one of the EBF1 target genes.CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of TFs expression profile revealed upregulated SPIB mRNA level and downregulated PU.1 in CLL cells. CD150 and CD180 receptors may modulate transcriptional program in CLL cells by regulating the TFs expression levels.
The IKZF family of transcription factors are essential regulators of lymphopoiesis. Ikaros, Helios, Aiolos and Eos function as transcriptional repressors and activators during T and B cell differentiation and in mature cell function, depending on the stage of development and/or cell type. Their potential mechanisms of action are varied. Ikaros family proteins partner with multiple complexes, including NuRD, PRC2 and transcription elongation factors, to modulate gene expression and the chromatin state. In humans, mutations in the IKZF genes are associated with B cell deficiency, leukemias and autoimmunity. In this review, we focus on the function of Ikaros family proteins in early T and B lymphocyte development, and discuss the molecular and physiological activities of this family.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) play an essential role in acute coronary syndrome (ACS). However, there is debate about which Treg subsets are truly critical to ACS. Helios, a transcription factor, was recently reported to be a bona fide marker for natural Tregs or activated Tregs with a suppression function, but little is known about its role in ACS. We therefore examined Helios+ Tregs in patients with ACS, patients with stable angina, and control subjects. 73 patients with ACS, 30 patients with stable angina, and 48 control subjects were enrolled. The frequencies and estimated absolute numbers of different Treg subsets in peripheral blood were measured by flow cytometry. Plasma cytokine level was measured by ELISA. The mRNA expression of Foxp3 and Helios in purified CD4+ T cells was determined by RT-PCR. Helios+ Tregs was decreased significantly in patients with ACS. The frequency and estimated absolute numbers of CD4+Foxp3+Helios+ Tregs were negatively correlated with IL-6 and positively correlated with circulating level of TGF-beta1 and HDL-C. The mRNA expression of Foxp3 and Helios was decreased in CD4+ T cells from patients with ACS. In summary, Helios+ Tregs was downregulated in patients with ACS and may play a role in ACS.
We retrospectively analyzed the samples collected from 66 patients with Ph+ALL enrolled on ChiCTR-TNRC-09000309 clinical trial. CR rate was 95.5%, and estimated 2-year OS and DFS were 51.7 ± 11.7% and 26.9 ± 11.6%, 3-year OS and DFS were 31.6 ± 12.0% and 23.4 ± 11.6%. By combining IKZF1 deletion and early molecular responses, we redefined the patients as low, intermediate, and high risk 3 groups separately. Patients with double negative in IKZF1 and early molecular response experienced significant superior survival, while patients with double positive would have the worst outcome, and patients who were one or the other with IKZF1 deletion or MRD status had intermediate outcome. Significant differences were found among 3 groups in regard to both OS (p < .001) and DFS (p < .001). Our findings suggest that Ph+ALL is a heterogeneous group of diseases with significantly different prognosis. Combination of IKZF1 deletion and MRD status enable better risk stratification of patients for assignment to optimal therapeutic strategies.
Latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is a major oncogene encoded by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and is essential for immortalization of B cells by the virus. Previous studies suggested that several transcription factors, such as PU.1, RBP-Jκ, NFκB, EBF1, AP-2 and STAT, are involved in LMP1 induction; however, the means by which the oncogene is negatively regulated remains unclear. Here, we introduced short mutations into the proximal LMP1 promoter that includes recognition sites for the E-box and Ikaros transcription factors in the context of EBV-bacterial artificial chromosome. Upon infection, the mutant exhibited increased LMP1 expression and EBV-mediated immortalization of B cells. However, single mutations of either the E-box or Ikaros sites had limited effects on LMP1 expression and transformation. Our results suggest that this region contains a suppressive cis-regulatory element, but other transcriptional repressors (apart from the E-box and Ikaros transcription factors) may remain to be discovered.
V(D)J recombination is essential for the generation of diverse antigen receptor (AgR) repertoires. In B cells, immunoglobulin kappa (Igκ) light chain recombination follows immunoglobulin heavy chain (Igh) recombination. We recently developed the DNA-based VDJ-seq assay for the unbiased quantitation of Igh VH and DH repertoires. Integration of VDJ-seq data with genome-wide datasets revealed that two chromatin states at the recombination signal sequence (RSS) of VH genes are highly predictive of recombination in mouse pro-B cells. It is unknown whether local chromatin states contribute to Vκ gene choice during Igκ recombination. Here we adapt VDJ-seq to profile the Igκ VκJκ repertoire and present a comprehensive readout in mouse pre-B cells, revealing highly variable Vκ gene usage. Integration with genome-wide datasets for histone modifications, DNase hypersensitivity, transcription factor binding and germline transcription identified PU.1 binding at the RSS, which was unimportant for Igh, as highly predictive of whether a Vκ gene will recombine or not, suggesting that it plays a binary, all-or-nothing role, priming genes for recombination. Thereafter, the frequency with which these genes recombine was shaped both by the presence and level of enrichment of several other chromatin features, including H3K4 methylation and IKAROS binding. Moreover, in contrast to the Igh locus, the chromatin landscape of the promoter, as well as of the RSS, contributes to Vκ gene recombination. Thus, multiple facets of local chromatin features explain much of the variation in Vκ gene usage. Together, these findings reveal shared and divergent roles for epigenetic features and transcription factors in AgR V(D)J recombination and provide avenues for further investigation of chromatin signatures that may underpin V(D)J-mediated chromosomal translocations.
Resveratrol generated enormous interest as it improved functions of multiple organs and could delay aging in animal models. However, basic mechanism of action was not understood and due to poor bioavailability, it has failed to enter the market. A highly active nano-formulation of resveratrol (XAR™) with enhanced bioavailability is now available. Present study was undertaken to evaluate its effects on stem cells biology in the human peripheral blood. Twelve healthy participants were enrolled of which five received XAR™, five were age-matched placebo controls and two were 76 and 85 years old. Peripheral blood was processed to study serum profile to monitor cardiac and pancreatic functions and subjected to density gradient centrifugation to enrich pluripotent (VSELs) and adult stem cells that get enriched along with red blood cells and in the Buffy coat respectively on Day 2 and Day 15 after XAR™ treatment. The XAR™ treatment resulted in an increased expression of pluripotency transcripts specific for VSELs (Oct-4A, Nanog and Sox2) on D2; specific transcripts for differentiation in the progenitors including Oct-4, Ikaros, CD14, CD90 on D15, and anti-ageing and tumor suppressor transcripts NAD, SIRT1, SIRT6 and p53 in both stem cells and progenitors. An improvement of cardiac and pancreatic markers in serum profile was also observed on D15. The decline in VSELs numbers with age and beneficial effects of the XAR™ treatment were evident by up-regulation of specific transcripts and on serum profile. XAR™ is a promising molecule that has the potential to activate pluripotent VSELs and tissue committed adult stem cells 'progenitors' resulting in the rejuvenation of various body tissues and for improved, cancer-free health with advanced age.
Gender plays an important role in the incidence of hematological malignancies and recently hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) were found to proliferate more in females that gets further augmented during pregnancy. It was suggested that since basal numbers of HSCs remain the same in both sexes, possibly HSCs in females undergo increased self-renewal and apoptosis. Then how is self-renewal of stem cells regulated in males? More important, do HSCs undergo asymmetric cell divisions (ACD) or a more primitive population of pluripotent, very small embryonic-like stem cells (VSELs) undergo ACD to self-renew and specify into HSCs? Lot more clarity is required on the bone marrow stem cells biology. Present study was undertaken to evaluate whether similar dimorphism reported for HSCs also exists among VSELs. Bone marrow VSELs and HSCs were studied in bilaterally ovariectomized and castrated mice by flow cytometry after treating with gonadotropin (FSH) and sex steroid (estrogen & progesterone) hormones and during pregnancy. Differential expression of pluripotent (Oct-4A, Sox2, Nanog) and differentiation (Oct-4, Sca1, c-Kit, Ikaros) specific transcripts was studied. Basal BrdU uptake was more in both VSELs (p < 0.01) and HSCs (p < 0.05) in female bone marrow. FSH exerted a more profound effect compared to estradiol in both the sexes. Flow cytometry results showed ten-fold increase in spleen VSELs by mid-gestation associated with approximately two-fold increase in HSCs. These results point to a novel yet unreported role of spleen VSELs during pregnancy. Furthermore, VSELs underwent ACD to self-renew and give rise to slightly bigger HSCs based on unequal expression of NUMB, CD45 and OCT-4.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are known to control immune responses by suppressing the antigen-presenting and effector T cells. Some mechanisms adopted by Tregs in combating Mycobacterium infections have been proposed. Nevertheless, in M. leprae infection, also known as leprosy or Hansen's disease, the role of Tregs has not been completely elucidated. Using multicolor flow cytometry, we evaluated the expression of different cell surface and intracellular molecules present in Tregs from peripheral blood samples of leprosy patients. Before initiating treatment, thirteen new cases of leprosy were grouped according to the Ridley-Jopling classification in to the paucibacilary (PB) or multibacilary (MB) group. Fifteen non-infected individuals (NI) were included as control subjects. Tregs were higher in the MB group than in the NI group. Tregs also co-expressed high amounts of PD1 and PDL-1, indicating that these cells could induce apoptosis of effector cells and simultaneously prevent their own apoptosis. Our data showed that compared to the NI group, Tregs from the PB group expressed higher levels of CD95L, which may be associated with other apoptotic pathways that may decrease Tregs in these patients. Correlation analysis reinforced that PD1 and CD95L are efficient apoptosis' pathway that decreased levels of Tregs in the NI and PB groups. We also observed significant differences in cytokine expression of Tregs from the PB and MB groups. Compared to the NI group, Tregs from the MB group showed higher IL-17 expression; however, compared to the PB group, the expression of IL-10 in Tregs from the MB group was lower, suggesting inefficient control of inflammation. Therefore, we concluded that different pathways were involved in Treg-induced suppression of leprosy. Moreover, Treg-mediated regulation of inflammation via IL-10 and IL-17 expression in leprosy patients was inefficient. Thus, we propose that during M. leprae infection, Tregs may impair the immune responses elicited against this bacillus, favor bacterial replication, and aid in persistence of a disseminated multibacillary disease.
Ikaros is a broad transcription factor pointed as a critical regulator of lymphocyte development. Recent reports have emphasized that distinct isoforms of Ikaros control the dichotomy of the hematopoietic system into lymphoid and myeloid lineages. In addition, expression of dominant-negative isoforms of Ikaros is linked to abnormal hematopoiesis, which could culminate in hematological disorders due to loss of function of the protein. B-1 cells are an intriguing subtype of B-lymphocytes that preserves some myeloid characteristics. These cells are able to differentiate into phagocytes (B-1CDP - B-1 cell derived phagocytes) in vitro and in vivo. During such process, reprogramming of gene expression occurs: lymphoid genes are turned off, while expression of myeloid genes is increased. This study aims to investigate whether Ikaros could be related to the control of B-1 cell plasticity. Interestingly, Ikaros expression by B-1CDP cells was found to be relatively low, and the protein is abnormally localized in the cytoplasm. Moreover, the isoforms expressed by B-1 cells are different from those expressed by other lymphocytes, with expression of active isoforms being almost absent in B-1CDP. Based on these findings, Ikaros could be an important factor driving the differentiation and proliferation of B-1 cells.
Philadelphia chromosome-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL) is a recently described subtype of B-cell precursor ALL with a gene expression profile similar to Ph-positive ALL and a high frequency of IKZF1 alterations. The prevalence of Ph-like ALL increases with age, ranging from 10-15% of children to over 25% of young adults with ALL. It occurs more frequently in males and is associated with adverse clinical features including elevated minimal residual disease levels and poor survival in both children and adults. The genomic landscape of Ph-like ALL is characterized by a diverse range of genetic alterations that dysregulate cytokine receptor and kinase signaling pathways, including rearrangement of CRLF2 and other tyrosine kinases (predominantly ABL-class and Janus kinases). Compelling preclinical data suggest patients harboring ABL-class rearrangements are candidates for ABL1-inhibitors, whilst alterations activating the JAK-STAT pathway may be amenable to treatment with JAK inhibitors. The success of combinatorial treatment of tyrosine kinase inhibitors with chemotherapy in Ph-positive ALL provides a framework for testing this approach in Ph-like ALL. Ongoing prospective studies will determine if incorporation of targeted therapy with intensive chemotherapy regimens will improve the outcome of patients with Ph-like ALL.
The clinical significance of the dominant-negative Ikaros 6 (DN-IK6) in the treatment of patients with Philadelphia-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+-ALL) with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) remains elusive. In the present study, it was demonstrated that DN-IK6 was overexpressed in B-cell (B)-ALL cases compared with T cell-ALL cases at the mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, nucleotide sequencing revealed that DN-IK6 was due to the deletion of IKAROS family zinc finger 1 exons 4-7. The outcome of patients with Ph+-B-ALL with DN-IK6, and treated with TKIs and hyper-cyclophosphamide/vincristine/doxorubicin/dexamethasone regimen were restrospectively evaluated in a 2 year follow-up. The results demonstrated that those with the DN isoform exhibited significantly lower incidences of remission, shorter median cumulative incidence of relapse times (P<0.05) and shorter median overall survival times (P<0.05) compared with those without the DN isoform. In conclusion, the results of the present study demonstrated that DN-IK6 is overexpressed in the majority of patients with Ph+-ALL, and is significantly associated with resistance to TKI therapy.
AIM: Clinical significance of plant homeodomain finger 2 (PHF2) expressions is explored in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients.METHODS: mRNA level was examined by qPCR. The retroviral gene expression, shRNA knockdown and chromatin-immunoprecipitation are used to observe IKAROS regulation on PHF2 transcription.RESULTS: PHF2 expression is significantly reduced in subsets of ALL patients, and PHF2 low expression correlates with leukemia cell proliferation and an elevation of several poor prognostic markers in B-cell ALL. IKAROS directly promotes PHF2 expression and patients with IKAROS deletion have significantly lower PHF2 expression. Casein kinase II (CK2) inhibitor significantly promotes PHF2 expression in an IKAROS-dependent manner, and casein kinase II inhibitor treatment also results in an increase of PHF2 expression and enrichment of IKAROS and H3K4me3 at PHF2 promoter in primary cells.CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that the IKAROS promotes PHF2 expression, and suggest that PHF2 low expression works with the IKAROS gene deletion to drive oncogenesis of ALL.
PROBLEM: The mechanisms underlying the regulation of decidual natural killer cells (dNKs) at the maternal-fetal interface are unclear.METHOD OF STUDY: Primary trophoblasts (TROs), decidual stromal cells (DSCs), and dNKs were cocultured, and responses to LAIR-2 (LAIR-1 inhibitor) and P4H shRNA (collagen inhibitor) were studied.RESULTS: Coculture of dNKs with primary TROs/DSCs resulted in downregulation of Th1 cytokine production by dNKs. These effects were abrogated by LAIR-2 and P4H shRNA. LAIR-1 binds to SHP-1, which in turn binds to JAK1 and JAK2. Further, the phosphorylation of STAT1/STAT4 and the expression of the downstream transcription factors T-bet and Helios in dNKs were decreased by collagen treatment and primary TROs/DSCs coculture.CONCLUSION: The JAK-STAT pathway and its downstream transcription factors T-bet and Helios are involved in the regulation of dNK function by collagen/LAIR-1 interaction, and this signaling mechanism may contribute to the maintenance of immune tolerance at the maternal-fetal interface.
SNPs in IKZF1 are associated with inherited susceptibility to B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). Besides, somatic copy number abnormalities (CNA) in genes related to lymphopoiesis (e.g., IKZF1, CDKN2A/B, BTG1) impact patient's outcome. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate an association between germline susceptibility and CNAs in BCP-ALL. The IKZF1 SNPs (rs11978267 and rs4132601) were genotyped in 276 cases and 467 controls. Bone marrow samples were used to determine the presence of somatic abnormalities. The IKZF1 transcript levels were quantified and associated with the SNPs and CNAs. Categorical variables were compared by χ2 test. ORs were estimated with unconditional logistic regression with 95% confidence interval (CI). The variant allele of IKZF1 rs4132601 conferred increased risk of BCP-ALL (OR, 2.09; 95% CI, 1.16-3.74). Individuals with either rs11978267 or rs4132601 had an increased risk for harboring IKZF1 deletion (OR, 2.80; 95% CI, 1.25-6.23 and OR, 2.88; 95% CI, 1.24-6.69, respectively). Increased risks were observed for individuals harboring both IKZF1 and BTG1 deletions (OR, 4.90; 95% CI, 1.65-14.55, rs11978267 and OR, 5.80; 95% CI, 1.94-17.41, rs4132601). Germline genetic variation increases the risk for childhood ALL in general, but also acts as a susceptibility factor bound for risk of specific somatic alterations. These findings provide new insight into the development of childhood ALL regarding causal variants and the biological basis of the risk association, offering the opportunity for future tailored research. Cancer Prev Res; 10(12); 738-44. ©2017 AACR.
Erratum in    Sci Rep. 2017 Dec 15;7(1):17940.
DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2017.08.019PMCID: PMC6588539PMID: 28927821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
The clinical outcome of children with high-risk relapsed B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) is poor. The present study assessed the utility and prognostic value of selected microRNA (miRNA/miR) in BCP-ALL. The changes in the expression levels of these miRNAs regarding known gene lesions affecting lymphoid development [early B-cell factor 1 (EBF1), ETS variant 6 (ETV6), IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1), paired box 5 (PAX5), cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor (CDKN) 2A/CDKN2B, retinoblastoma 1 (RB1), pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1), B-cell translocation gene 1 protein (BTG1)] were analyzed. The following miRNAs were analyzed: miR-24, miR-31, miR-128, miR-542, and miR-708. The present study focused on patients with deletions of the IKAROS transcriptional factor gene IKZF1, which is currently considered to be an independent negative prognostic factor for ALL outcome. It was demonstrated that the expression level of miR-128 was significantly lower in patients with IKZF1 deletion compared with patients without IKZF1 deletion. Additionally, low expression of miR-542 was associated with CDKN2A/B and miR-31deletions, and low expression of miR-24 was associated with miR-31 deletion. Low expression of miR-31, miR-24, miR-708 and miR-128 was associated with PAX5 deletion, high expression of miR-24 and miR-542 was associated with PAR1 deletion and high expression of miR-708 was associated with ETV6 deletion. The expression of the selected miRNAs was not associated with deletions of BTG1, EBF1 and RB1. These data, by emphasizing the association of miRNAs expression level with microdeletions, may assist to elucidate ALL biology and contribute to future studies on the possible applications of the miRNA profile for diagnosis.
The mechanism of the anti-myeloma effect of the immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide relies upon the binding of lenalidomide or an analogue to cereblon (CRBN) ubiquitin ligase, which inhibits it and results in the degradation of Ikaros-family zinc finger proteins 1 and 3 (IKZF1 and IKZF3). To determine whether the traditional Chinese medicine arsenic trioxide, could potentiate sensitivity of multiple myeloma (MM) cells to lenalidomide and identify the mechanism by which this happens, the present study investigated how arsenic trioxide affected CRBN on MM cell lines and examined the anti-myeloma effect and mechanism in the combination of arsenic trioxide and lenalidomide. The present study revealed that arsenic trioxide upregulates the transcription and protein levels of CRBN, the anti-myeloma target of lenalidomide, thus potentiating the sensitivity of multiple myeloma cells to lenalidomide and enhancing the lenalidomide-dependent degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3. The results of the present study indicate that clinical trials of this combination therapy could take place within the near future, with the aim of improving MM patient outcome.
Previous studies have established the common and critical involvement of the zinc finger protein Ikaros in lymphoid and pituitary cell development and expansion. Key to the assembly of several transcriptional networks, we have demonstrated up-regulation of Ikaros and its interacting partner the C-terminal Binding Protein (CtBP) in response to hypoxia. This prompted us to explore common transcriptional targets using a chromatin immunoprecipitate (ChIP) screen of DNA from pituitary corticotroph cells. This strategy yielded a finite list of targets common to both transcription factors that included the metalloprotease ADAMTS10. In this report, we focus on validation of a second candidate target, the retrotransposon gag domain containing protein Rgag4. We identified the ability of Ikaros to bind the Rgag4 promoter, influence its transcriptional activity, and induce endogenous gene expression. Robust expression of Rgag4 was noted in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland which was diminished in Ikaros knockout mice. Down-regulation of Rgag4 resulted in profound reduction of hormone gene expression with diminished ACTH secretion, recapitulating the effect of Ikaros deficiency in knockout mice. The results introduce Rgag4 to the repertoire of effectors serving to couple the chromatin remodeler Ikaros with the hormonal stress response.
BACKGROUND: Our genomewide association study documented an association between cold medicine-related Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (CM-SJS/TEN) and Ikaros Family Zinc Finger 1 (IKZF1). Few studies examined biological and pathological functions of IKZF1 in mucosal immunity. We hypothesized that IKZF1 contributes to the mucocutaneous inflammation.METHODS: Human skin and conjunctival tissues were obtained for immunohistological studies. Primary human conjunctival epithelial cells (PHCjECs) and adult human epidermal keratinocytes (HEKa) also used for gene expression analysis. We also generated K5-Ikzf1-EGFP transgenic mice (Ikzf1 Tg) by introducing the Ik1 isoform into cells expressing keratin 5, which is expressed in epithelial tissues such as the epidermis and conjunctiva, and then examined them histologically and investigated gene expression of the epidermis. Moreover, Ikzf1 Tg were induced allergic contact dermatitis.RESULTS: We found that human epidermis and conjunctival epithelium expressed IKZF1, and in PHCjECs and HEKa, the expression of IKZF1 mRNA was upregulated by stimulation with polyI:C, a TLR3 ligand. In Ikzf1 Tg, we observed dermatitis and mucosal inflammation including the ocular surface. In contact dermatitis model, inflammatory infiltrates in the skin of Ikzf1 Tg were significantly increased compared with wild type. Microarray analysis showed that Lcn2, Adh7, Epgn, Ifi202b, Cdo1, Gpr37, Duoxa1, Tnfrsf4, and Enpp5 genes were significantly upregulated in the epidermis of Ikzf1 Tg compared with wild type.CONCLUSION: Our findings support the hypothesis that Ikaros might participate in mucocutaneous inflammation.
Activated B-cell diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (ABC-DLBCL) is associated with a poor prognosis compared with other DLBCL types and therefore represents a top priority for developing novel therapies. Lenalidomide, an immunomodulatory drug in trials for treatment of ABC-DLBCL, targets the transcription factor IKAROS for degradation by the cereblon E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. In this study, we investigated whether the gene encoding the transcription factor SPI-B is a target of IKAROS. Using cultured ABC-DLBCL cell lines, we found that high levels of SPI-B expression conferred resistance to lenalidomide. Lenalidomide treatment of ABC-DLBCL cells resulted in downregulation of SPIB at the level of transcription. SPIB was regulated directly by IKAROS through a binding site located in the first intron of the gene. Inhibition of IKAROS binding using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated transcriptional repression downregulated endogenous SPIB transcription. Finally, ectopic expression of IKAROS protected SPIB from downregulation. These results show that the mechanism of action of lenalidomide in ABC-DLBCL cells involves downregulation of SPIB transcription by cereblon-induced degradation of IKAROS. These results have implications for the design of synthetic lethal therapy for the treatment of ABC-DLBCL.
The use of Lenalidomide (LEN), to reverse tumor-mediated immune suppression and amplify multiple myeloma-specific immunity is currently being explored. Particularly, LEN effects on dendritic cells (DCs) are still unclear. In this study, we investigated the potential effect of LEN on DC differentiation and activity. DCs were differentiated either from CD14+ cells obtained from patients with multiple myeloma or from a human monocytic cell line. LEN, at the concentration range reached in vivo, significantly increased the median intensity expression of HLA-DR, CD86 and CD209 by DCs derived from both bone marrow and peripheral myeloma monocytes and enhanced the production of Interleukin-8, C-C motif chemokine ligand (CCL) 2, CCL5 and tumor necrosis factor-α. Consistently, LEN pre-treated DCs showed an increased ability to stimulate autologous CD3+ cell proliferation. LEN effect on dendritic differentiation was associated with the degradation of the Cereblon-related factors Ikaros and Aiolos. Moreover, we showed that LEN also blunted mesenchymal stromal cell inhibitory effect on dendritic differentiation, inhibiting Casein Kinase-1α levels. Finally, in vitro data were confirmed in ex vivo cultures obtained from relapsed myeloma patients treated with LEN, showing a significant increase of DC differentiation from peripheral blood monocytes. In conclusion, LEN increased the expression of mature dendritic markers both directly and indirectly and enhanced DC ability to stimulate T cell proliferation and to release chemokines. This suggests a new possible mechanism by which LEN could exert its anti-myeloma activity.
IKZF1 encodes a transcription factor involved in B-cell maturation and differentiation. We genotyped 218 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients and 715 unrelated controls using a TaqMan allelic discrimination assay. No statistical difference was observed in the genotype distribution of the IKZF1 rs4132601 polymorphism between DLBCL patients and controls. However, the 2-year PFS rate of patients with the IKZF1 TT genotype was 54.3% compared to 68.6% in those with the IKZF1 G+ genotypes. Moreover, the IKZF1 rs4132601 polymorphism retained its independent prognostic impact on PFS. A more pronounced effect of the IKZF1 TT genotype on PFS was detected in patients with low/intermediate low IPI-risk group. When analysis was restricted to patients with GCB-type pattern, those with the IKZF1 TT genotype achieved a lower 5-year OS rate than the patients with the IKZF1 G+ genotypes (19.6 vs. 56%). This study provides the first evidence for the association of IKZF1 variants with DLBCL outcome.
BAFF is a B cell survival and maturation factor implicated in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In this in vitro study, we describe that soluble BAFF in combination with IL-2 and IL-21 is a T cell contact-independent inducer of human B cell proliferation, plasmablast differentiation, and IgG secretion from circulating CD27+ memory and memory-like CD27-IgD- double-negative (DN) B cells, but not CD27-IgD+ naive B cells. In contrast, soluble CD40L in combination with IL-2 and IL-21 induces these activities in both memory and naive B cells. Blood from healthy donors and SLE patients have similar circulating levels of IL-2, whereas SLE patients exhibit elevated BAFF and DN B cells and reduced IL-21. B cell differentiation transcription factors in memory, DN, and naive B cells in SLE show elevated levels of Aiolos, whereas Ikaros levels are unchanged. Treatment with CC-220, a modulator of the cullin ring ligase 4-cereblon E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, reduces Aiolos and Ikaros protein levels and BAFF- and CD40L-induced proliferation, plasmablast differentiation, and IgG secretion. The observation that the soluble factors BAFF, IL-2, and IL-21 induce memory and DN B cell activation and differentiation has implications for extrafollicular plasmablast development within inflamed tissue. Inhibition of B cell plasmablast differentiation by reduction of Aiolos and Ikaros may have utility in the treatment of SLE, where elevated levels of BAFF and Aiolos may prime CD27+ memory and DN memory-like B cells to become Ab-producing plasmablasts in the presence of BAFF and proinflammatory cytokines.
B cell lymphoma-6 (Bcl-6) is a transcriptional repressor that is required for the differentiation of T follicular helper (TFH) cell populations. Currently, the molecular mechanisms underlying the transcriptional regulation of Bcl-6 expression are unclear. In this study, we have identified the Ikaros zinc finger transcription factors Aiolos and Ikaros as novel regulators of Bcl-6. We found that increased expression of Bcl-6 in CD4+ Th cell populations correlated with enhanced enrichment of Aiolos and Ikaros at the Bcl6 promoter. Furthermore, overexpression of Aiolos or Ikaros, but not the related family member Eos, was sufficient to induce Bcl6 promoter activity. Intriguingly, STAT3, a known Bcl-6 transcriptional regulator, physically interacted with Aiolos to form a transcription factor complex capable of inducing the expression of Bcl6 and the TFH-associated cytokine receptor Il6ra Importantly, in vivo studies revealed that the expression of Aiolos was elevated in Ag-specific TFH cells compared with that observed in non-TFH effector Th cells generated in response to influenza infection. Collectively, these data describe a novel regulatory mechanism through which STAT3 and the Ikaros zinc finger transcription factors Aiolos and Ikaros cooperate to regulate Bcl-6 expression.
BACKGROUND: Hyperactive B cells and a continuous interferon (IFN)-α production by plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) play a key role in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We asked whether the interaction between B cells and pDCs stimulated with RNA-containing immune complexes affects peripheral B cell subsets.METHODS: B cells and pDCs were isolated from blood of healthy individuals and stimulated with immune complexes consisting of SLE-IgG and U1snRNP (RNA-IC). Expression of cell surface molecules as well as IL-6 and IL-10 production were determined by flow cytometry and immunoassays. Gene expression profiles were determined by a NanoString nCounter expression array.RESULTS: We found a remarkable increase of double negative CD27-IgD- B cells, from 7% within fresh CD19+ B cells to 37% in the RNA-IC-stimulated co-cultures of B cells and pDCs, comparable to the frequency of double negative B cells in SLE patients. Gene expression analysis of the double negative CD27-IgD- and the CD27+IgD- memory B cells revealed that twenty-one genes were differentially expressed between the two B cell subsets (≥ 2-fold, p<0.001). The, IL21R, IL4R, CCL4, CCL3, CD83 and the IKAROS Family Zinc Finger 2 (IKZ2) showed higher expression in the double negative CD27-IgD- B cells.CONCLUSION: The interactions between B cells and pDCs together with RNA-containing IC led to an expansion of B cells with similar phenotype as seen in SLE, suggesting that the pDC-B cell crosstalk contributes to the autoimmune feed-forward loop in SLE.
Philadelphia chromosome-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-like ALL) is a recently described B-cell precursor ALL with a gene expression profile and a high frequency of IKZF1 gene alteration similar to that of Ph-positive ALL. Its prevalence is approximately 12% in children, 21% in adolescents (16-20 years of age), and 20% to 24% in adults older than 40 years, with a peak (27%) in young adults 21 to 39 years old. It occurs more often in male individuals and patients with Down syndrome. Ph-like ALL is overrepresented in those with Hispanic ethnicity and is associated with inherited genetic variants in GATA3 (rs3824662). It is a clinically and biologically heterogeneous subtype of B-ALL. Although most patients with Ph-like ALL have positive minimal residual disease after remission induction and poor event-free survival, approximately 40% of pediatric patients responded well to chemotherapy and can be cured with relatively low intensity of treatment. The treatment outcome correlated negatively with increasing age at presentation. Ph-like ALL is characterized by a wide range of genetic alterations that dysregulate several cytokine receptor and kinase signaling pathways, including CRLF2 rearrangement in half of the cases and translocation of nonreceptor tyrosine kinases (predominantly ABL-class and Janus kinases). Patients with ABL-class fusions respond clinically to ABL1 tyrosine kinase inhibitors, whereas mutations activating the JAK-STAT pathway are amendable to treatment with JAK inhibitors in vitro or in preclinical models. Prospective studies are needed to determine if incorporation of tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting kinase alterations into intensive chemotherapy regimens will improve outcome of patients with Ph-like ALL.
Author information:(1)Department of Oncology, Shanghai 9th People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 201900, China.(2)Department of Oncology, Shanghai 9th People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 201900, China. E-mail:fenghougao@163.com.
OBJECTIVE: The role of plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDCs) and type I interferons (IFNs) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remains a subject of controversy. This study was undertaken to explore the contribution of PDCs and type I IFNs to RA pathogenesis using various animal models of PDC depletion and to monitor the effect of localized PDC recruitment and activation on joint inflammation and bone damage.METHODS: Mice with K/BxN serum-induced arthritis, collagen-induced arthritis, and human tumor necrosis factor transgene insertion were studied. Symptoms were evaluated by visual scoring, quantification of paw swelling, determination of cytokine levels by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and histologic analysis. Imiquimod-dependent therapeutic effects were monitored by transcriptome analysis (using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction) and flow cytometric analysis of the periarticular tissue.RESULTS: PDC-deficient mice showed exacerbation of inflammatory and arthritis symptoms after arthritogenic serum transfer. In contrast, enhancing PDC recruitment and activation to arthritic joints by topical application of the Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR-7) agonist imiquimod significantly ameliorated arthritis in various mouse models. Imiquimod induced an IFN signature and led to reduced infiltration of inflammatory cells.CONCLUSION: The therapeutic effects of imiquimod on joint inflammation and bone destruction are dependent on TLR-7 sensing by PDCs and type I IFN signaling. Our findings indicate that local recruitment and activation of PDCs represents an attractive therapeutic opportunity for RA patients.
BACKGROUND: Genome-wide and candidate gene association studies have previously revealed links between a predisposition to acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and genetic polymorphisms in the following genes: IKZF1 (7p12.2; ID: 10320), DDC (7p12.2; ID: 1644), CDKN2A (9p21.3; ID: 1029), CEBPE (14q11.2; ID: 1053), and LMO1 (11p15; ID: 4004). In this study, we aimed to conduct an investigation into the possible association between polymorphisms in these genes and ALL within a sample of Yemeni children of Arab-Asian descent.METHODS: Seven single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in IKZF1, three SNPs in DDC, two SNPs in CDKN2A, two SNPs in CEBPE, and three SNPs in LMO1 were genotyped in 289 Yemeni children (136 cases and 153 controls), using the nanofluidic Dynamic Array (Fluidigm 192.24 Dynamic Array). Logistic regression analyses were used to estimate ALL risk, and the strength of association was expressed as odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals.RESULTS: We found that the IKZF1 SNP rs10235796 C allele (p = 0.002), the IKZF1 rs6964969 A>G polymorphism (p = 0.048, GG vs. AA), the CDKN2A rs3731246 G>C polymorphism (p = 0.047, GC+CC vs. GG), and the CDKN2A SNP rs3731246 C allele (p = 0.007) were significantly associated with ALL in Yemenis of Arab-Asian descent. In addition, a borderline association was found between IKZF1 rs4132601 T>G variant and ALL risk. No associations were found between the IKZF1 SNPs (rs11978267; rs7789635), DDC SNPs (rs3779084; rs880028; rs7809758), CDKN2A SNP (rs3731217), the CEBPE SNPs (rs2239633; rs12434881) and LMO1 SNPs (rs442264; rs3794012; rs4237770) with ALL in Yemeni children.CONCLUSION: The IKZF1 SNPs, rs10235796 and rs6964969, and the CDKN2A SNP rs3731246 (previously unreported) could serve as risk markers for ALL susceptibility in Yemeni children.
The outcome of relapsed adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) remains dismal despite new therapeutic approaches. Previous studies analyzing relapse samples have shown a high degree of heterogeneity regarding gene alterations without an evident relapse signature. Bone marrow or peripheral blood samples from 31 adult B-cell precursor ALL patients at first relapse, and 21 paired diagnostic samples were analyzed by multiplex ligation probe-dependent amplification (MLPA). Nineteen paired diagnostic and relapse samples of these 21 patients were also analyzed by SNP arrays. A trend to acquire homozygous CDKN2A/B deletions and a significant increase in the number of copy number alterations (CNA) was observed from diagnosis to first relapse. Evolution from an ancestral clone was the main pattern of clonal evolution. Relapse samples were extremely heterogeneous regarding CNA frequencies. However, CDKN2A/B, PAX5, ETV6, ATM, IKZF1, VPREB1, and TP53 deletions and duplications of 1q, 8q, 17q, 21, X/Y PAR1, and Xp were frequently detected at relapse. Duplications of genes involved in cell proliferation, drug resistance and stem cell homeostasis regulation, as well as deletions of KDM6A and STAG2 genes emerged as specific alterations at relapse. Genomics of relapsed adult B-cell precursor ALL is highly heterogeneous, although some recurrent lesions involved in essential pathways deregulation were frequently observed. Selective and simultaneous targeting of these deregulated pathways may improve the results of current salvage therapies.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells are a subset of immune cells that maintain homeostasis by promoting immune tolerance and suppressing the immune response via a variety of mechanisms such as secreting cytokines, killing reactive immune cells, and inducing anergy. Dysfunction of Treg cells has been implicated in inflammatory diseases such as autoimmunity and transplant rejection. Conversely, too many or hyperresponsive Treg cells has been observed in cancer and chronic infections. Treg cells have proven to be difficult to study as there are no definitive Treg surface markers. Additionally, Tregs can gain pro-inflammatory phenotype depending on stimuli. In this commentary, we discuss the expression and function of members of the Ikaros family of transcription factors during Treg cell development and activation.
Genetic alterations of the transcription factor IKZF1 ("IKAROS") are detected in around 15-30% of cases of BCR-ABL-negative B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Different types of intragenic deletions have been observed, resulting in a functionally inactivated allele ("loss-of-function") or in "dominant-negative" isoforms. The prognostic impact of these alterations especially in adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia is not well defined. We analyzed 482 well-characterized cases of adult BCR-ABL-negative B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia uniformly treated in the framework of the GMALL studies and detected IKZF1 alterations in 128 cases (27%). In 20%, the IKZF1 alteration was present in a large fraction of leukemic cells ("high deletion load") while in 7% it was detected only in small subclones ("low deletion load"). Some patients showed more than one IKZF1 alteration (8%). Patients exhibiting a loss-of-function isoform with high deletion load had a shorter overall survival (OS at 5 years 28% vs. 59%; P<0.0001), also significant in a subgroup analysis of standard risk patients according to GMALL classification (OS at 5 years 37% vs. 68%; P=0.0002). Low deletion load or dominant-negative IKZF1 alterations had no prognostic impact. The results thus suggest that there is a clear distinction between loss-of-function and dominant-negative IKZF1 deletions. Affected patients should thus be monitored for minimal residual disease carefully to detect incipient relapses at an early stage and they are potential candidates for alternative or intensified treatment regimes. (clinicaltrials.gov identifiers: 00199056 and 00198991).
Most patients with multiple myeloma treated with current therapies, including immunomodulatory drugs, eventually develop relapsed/refractory disease. Clinical activity of lenalidomide relies on degradation of Ikaros and the consequent reduction in IRF4 expression, both required for myeloma cell survival and involved in the regulation of MYC transcription. Thus, we sought to determine the combinational effect of an MYC-interfering therapy with lenalidomide/dexamethasone. We analyzed the potential therapeutic effect of the combination of the BET bromodomain inhibitor CPI203 with the lenalidomide/dexamethasone regimen in myeloma cell lines. CPI203 exerted a dose-dependent cell growth inhibition in cell lines, indeed in lenalidomide/dexamethasone-resistant cells (median response at 0.5 μM: 65.4%), characterized by G1 cell cycle blockade and a concomitant inhibition of MYC and Ikaros signaling. These effects were potentiated by the addition of lenalidomide/dexamethasone. Results were validated in primary plasma cells from patients with multiple myeloma co-cultured with the mesenchymal stromal cell line stromaNKtert. Consistently, the drug combination evoked a 50% reduction in cell proliferation and correlated with basal Ikaros mRNA expression levels (P=0.04). Finally, in a SCID mouse xenotransplant model of myeloma, addition of CPI203 to lenalidomide/dexamethasone decreased tumor burden, evidenced by a lower glucose uptake and increase in the growth arrest marker GADD45B, with simultaneous downregulation of key transcription factors such as MYC, Ikaros and IRF4. Taken together, our data show that the combination of a BET bromodomain inhibitor with a lenalidomide-based regimen may represent a therapeutic approach to improve the response in relapsed/refractory patients with multiple myeloma, even in cases with suboptimal prior response to immunomodulatory drugs.
Identification of alterations in the cellular composition of the human immune system is key to understanding the autoimmune process. Recently, a subset of FOXP3+ cells with low CD25 expression was found to be increased in peripheral blood from systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients, although its functional significance remains controversial. Here we find in comparisons with healthy donors that the frequency of FOXP3+ cells within CD127lowCD25low CD4+ T cells (here defined as CD25lowFOXP3+ T cells) is increased in patients affected by autoimmune disease of varying severity, from combined immunodeficiency with active autoimmunity, SLE to type 1 diabetes. We show that CD25lowFOXP3+ T cells share phenotypic features resembling conventional CD127lowCD25highFOXP3+ Tregs, including demethylation of the Treg-specific epigenetic control region in FOXP3, HELIOS expression, and lack of IL-2 production. As compared to conventional Tregs, more CD25lowFOXP3+HELIOS+ T cells are in cell cycle (33.0% vs 20.7% Ki-67+; P = 1.3 × 10-9) and express the late-stage inhibitory receptor PD-1 (67.2% vs 35.5%; P = 4.0 × 10-18), while having reduced expression of the early-stage inhibitory receptor CTLA-4, as well as other Treg markers, such as FOXP3 and CD15s. The number of CD25lowFOXP3+ T cells is correlated (P = 3.1 × 10-7) with the proportion of CD25highFOXP3+ T cells in cell cycle (Ki-67+). These findings suggest that CD25lowFOXP3+ T cells represent a subset of Tregs that are derived from CD25highFOXP3+ T cells, and are a peripheral marker of recent Treg expansion in response to an autoimmune reaction in tissues.
Genetic mutations involving oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes are relatively uncommon in human sporadic pituitary tumors. Instead, increasing evidence has highlighted frequent epigenetic alterations including DNA methylation, histone modifications, and enhanced miRNA expression. This review covers some of this evidence as it illuminates mechanisms of tumorigenesis and highlights therapeutic opportunities.
Author information:(1)HMR Research Center, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.(2)Blokhin Russian Cancer Research Center, Moscow, 115478 Russia.(3)labmedchem@mail.ru.(4)Proteomic Platform CHU de Quebec Research Center, Quebec, QC, Canada.(5)Proteomic Platform, IRIC University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.(6)Department of Medicine University of Montreal, Montreal, QC Canada.
Erratum in    Circ Res. 2021 Jan 8;128(1):e25.
Ikaros is a transcription factor that regulates lymphocyte development from the level of the haematopoietic stem cell. Lack of Ikaros reduces the ability of progenitor cells to commit to the T-cell lineage, resulting in reduced numbers of early thymic T-cell progenitors and mature T cells. Mature CD4 T cells that lack Ikaros have defects in proliferation, T helper cell differentiation, cytokine expression and the ability to become anergic. A role for Ikaros in the naive T cell has not yet been identified. The receptors interleukin-7 receptor α (IL-7Rα) and l-selectin are important for ensuring survival and proper homing of naive T cells, respectively. Here we show that lack of Ikaros leads to reduced expression of these receptors in naive T cells, which impacts their ability to home and survive in response to IL-7. We define the mechanism underlying this phenotype as a requirement for Ikaros in maintenance of expression of Foxo1, a transcriptional regulator that is required for their expression. We also demonstrate that CD4 T cells lacking Ikaros are significantly crippled in their ability to become induced regulatory T cells, a phenotype also linked to reduced Foxo1 expression. Finally, we show that restoring Ikaros function to Ikaros-deficient CD4 T cells increases levels of Foxo1 message. Together, these studies define, for the first time, a role for Ikaros in naive T cells and establish it as the first transcriptional regulator required for maintaining levels of Foxo1 gene expression in these cells.
The occurrence and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are affected by complicated signal transduction factors. Our previous study identified Ikaros as a novel reactivated therapeutic target that acts as a transcriptional repressor and reactivates anticancer mechanisms in HCC therapy. Annexin A4 (ANXA4) is a member of the Annexin family that plays an essential role in several cancers, but it has not been investigated in HCC proliferation. Using cDNA microarrays, ANXA4 was shown to be associated with Ikaros in Ikaros-overexpressing cells. The aim of this work was to characterize the relationship between Ikaros and ANXA4 and the role of ANXA4 in HCC. The effect of Ikaros on ANXA4 was analyzed in HCC cell lines and HCC patient samples, and functional recovery experiments were performed between Ikaros and ANXA4. Furthermore, the effect of ANXA4 on cell proliferation in vitro was analyzed by MTT and colony formation assays in HCC cells. We used a subcutaneous xenograft model to elucidate the role of ANXA4 in vivo. We found that ANXA4 overexpression promotes HCC cell proliferation, but Ikaros can inhibit ANXA4 expression by repressing its promoter activity. Moreover, we demonstrated that downregulated expression of ANXA4 inhibited HCC cell proliferation and tumorigenesis in vitro and in vivo. Our findings indicate that ANXA4 may be a critical factor in HCC tumorigenesis. Ikaros is an attractive inhibitor of ANXA4 and may function as an anticancer agent in HCC.
B-lineage and myeloid leukemia cells are often transformed by the same oncogenes, but have different biological and clinical characteristics. Although B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) cells are characterized by a state of chronic energy deficit, myeloid leukemia cells show abundant energy reserve. Interestingly, fasting has been demonstrated to inhibit selectively the development of B-ALL but not myeloid leukemia, further suggesting that lineage identity may be linked to divergent metabolic states in hematopoietic malignancies. The B-lymphoid transcription factors IKZF1, EBF1, and PAX5 are essential for early B-cell development and commitment to B-cell identity. However, in >80% of human pre-B-ALL cases, the leukemic clones harbor genetic lesions of these transcription factors. The significance of these defects has only recently been investigated. Here, we discuss the unexpected function of a B-lymphoid transcriptional program as a metabolic barrier against malignant transformation of B-cell precursor cells. The metabolic gatekeeper function of B-lymphoid transcription factors may force silent preleukemic clones carrying potentially oncogenic lesions to remain in a latent state. In addition, this program sets the threshold for responses to glucocorticoids in pre-B-ALL. Finally, the link between the tumor-suppressor and metabolic functions of B-lymphoid transcription factors is matched by observations in clinical trials: obesity and hyperglycemia are associated with poor clinical outcome in patients with pre-B-ALL.
Lenalidomide (LEN) acts directly on multiple myeloma (MM) cells by inducing cereblon-mediated degradation of interferon regulatory factor 4, Ikaros (IKZF)1 and IKZF3, transcription factors that are essential for MM cell survival. The mucin 1 (MUC1) C-terminal transmembrane subunit (MUC1-C) oncoprotein is aberrantly expressed by MM cells and protects against reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated MM cell death. The present studies demonstrate that targeting MUC1-C with GO-203, a cell-penetrating peptide inhibitor of MUC1-C homodimerization, is more than additive with LEN in downregulating the WNT/β-catenin pathway, suppressing MYC, and inducing late apoptosis/necrosis. We show that the GO-203/LEN combination acts by synergistically increasing ROS and, in turn, suppressing β-catenin. LEN resistance has been linked to activation of the WNT/β-catenin→CD44 pathway. In this regard, our results further demonstrate that targeting MUC1-C is effective against LEN-resistant MM cells. Moreover, GO-203 resensitized LEN-resistant MM cells to LEN treatment in association with suppression of β-catenin and CD44. Targeting MUC1-C also resulted in downregulation of CD44 on the surface of primary MM cells. These findings, and the demonstration that expression of MUC1 and CD44 significantly correlate in microarrays from primary MM cells, provide support for combining GO-203 with LEN in the treatment of MM and in LEN-resistance.
Signaling networks that regulate cellular proliferation often involve complex interactions between several signaling pathways. In this manuscript we review the crosstalk between the Casein Kinase II (CK2) and Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3 (GSK-3) pathways that plays a critical role in the regulation of cellular proliferation in leukemia. Both CK2 and GSK-3 are potential targets for anti-leukemia treatment. Previously published data suggest that CK2 and GSK-3 act synergistically to promote the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K) pathway via phosphorylation of PTEN. More recent data demonstrate another mechanism through which CK2 promotes the PI3K pathway - via transcriptional regulation of PI3K pathway genes by the newly-discovered CK2-Ikaros axis. Together, these data suggest that the CK2 and GSK-3 pathways regulate AKT/PI3K signaling in leukemia via two complementary mechanisms: a) direct phosphorylation of PTEN and b) transcriptional regulation of PI3K-promoting genes. Functional interactions between CK2, Ikaros and GSK3 define a novel signaling network that regulates proliferation of leukemia cells. This regulatory network involves both direct posttranslational modifications (by CK and GSK-3) and transcriptional regulation (via CK2-mediated phosphorylation of Ikaros). This information provides a basis for the development of targeted therapy for leukemia.
OBJECTIVE: The relationship between patterns of islet autoantibodies at diagnosis and specificity of the first islet autoantibody at the initiation of autoimmunity was analyzed with the aim of identifying patterns informative of the primary autoantibodies.METHODS: Information about a single first autoantibody at seroconversion and autoantibody data at diagnosis were available for 128 children participating in the follow-up cohort of the Finnish Type 1 Diabetes Prediction and Prevention (DIPP) study. Autoantibody data at diagnosis and genotyping results were also obtained from children in the Finnish Pediatric Diabetes Register (FPDR).RESULTS: Insulin autoantibodies (IAA) were the most common primary antibodies (N = 68), followed by those for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GADA; N = 38), IA-2 antigen (IA-2A; N = 13), and zinc transporter 8 (ZnT8A; N = 9), whereas at diagnosis, IA-2A were most frequent (N = 103), followed by IAA (N = 78), ZnT8A (N = 73), and GADA (N = 71). Accordingly, the presence of many specific autoantibodies at diagnosis was due to the secondary antibodies appearing after primary antibodies, and in some cases, the primary autoantibody, most often IAA, had already disappeared at the time of diagnosis. Many of the autoantibody combinations present at diagnosis could be assembled into groups associated with either IAA or GADA as first autoantibodies. These combinations, in children diagnosed below the age of 10 years in the FPDR, were found to be strongly associated with risk genotypes in either INS (IAA first) or IKZF4-ERBB3 (GADA first) genes.CONCLUSIONS: Autoantibody patterns at diagnosis may be informative on primary autoantibodies initiating autoimmunity in young children developing type 1 diabetes.
A derepression mode of cell-fate specification involving the transcriptional repressors Tbr1, Fezf2, Satb2, and Ctip2 operates in neocortical projection neurons to specify six layer identities in sequence. Less well understood is how laminar fate transitions are regulated in cortical progenitors. The proneural genes Neurog2 and Ascl1 cooperate in progenitors to control the temporal switch from neurogenesis to gliogenesis. Here we asked whether these proneural genes also regulate laminar fate transitions. Several defects were observed in the derepression circuit in Neurog2-/-;Ascl1-/- mutants: an inability to repress expression of Tbr1 (a deep layer VI marker) during upper-layer neurogenesis, a loss of Fezf2+/Ctip2+ layer V neurons, and precocious differentiation of normally late-born, Satb2+ layer II-IV neurons. Conversely, in stable gain-of-function transgenics, Neurog2 promoted differentiative divisions and extended the period of Tbr1+/Ctip2+ deep-layer neurogenesis while reducing Satb2+ upper-layer neurogenesis. Similarly, acute misexpression of Neurog2 in early cortical progenitors promoted Tbr1 expression, whereas both Neurog2 and Ascl1 induced Ctip2. However, Neurog2 was unable to influence the derepression circuit when misexpressed in late cortical progenitors, and Ascl1 repressed only Satb2. Nevertheless, neurons derived from late misexpression of Neurog2 and, to a lesser extent, Ascl1, extended aberrant subcortical axon projections characteristic of early-born neurons. Finally, Neurog2 and Ascl1 altered the expression of Ikaros and Foxg1, known temporal regulators. Proneural genes thus act in a context-dependent fashion as early determinants, promoting deep-layer neurogenesis in early cortical progenitors via input into the derepression circuit while also influencing other temporal regulators.
The role of AP-1 transcription factors in early B cell development and function is still incompletely characterized. Here we address the role of Fra-2 in B cell differentiation. Deletion of Fra-2 leads to impaired B cell proliferation in the bone marrow. In addition, IL-7-stimulated pro-B cell cultures revealed a reduced differentiation from large pre-B cells to small B cells and immature B cells. Gene profiling and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing analyses unraveled a transcriptional reduction of the transcription factors Foxo1, Irf4, Ikaros, and Aiolos in Fra-2-deficient B cells. Moreover, expression of IL7Rα and Rag 1/2, downstream targets of Irf4 and Foxo1, were also reduced in the absence of Fra-2. Pro-B cell proliferation and small pre-B cell differentiation were fully rescued by expression of Foxo1 and Irf4 in Fra-2-deficient pro-B cells. Hence, Fra-2 is a key upstream regulator of Foxo1 and Irf4 expression and influences proliferation and differentiation of B cells at multiple stages.
The chimeric fusion oncogene early B-cell factor 1-platelet-derived growth factor receptor-β (EBF1-PDGFRB) is a recurrent lesion observed in Philadelphia-like B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and is associated with particularly poor prognosis. While it is understood that this fusion activates tyrosine kinase signaling, the mechanisms of transformation and importance of perturbation of EBF1 activity remain unknown. EBF1 is a nuclear transcription factor required for normal B-lineage specification, commitment and development. Conversely, PDGFRB is a receptor tyrosine kinase that is normally repressed in lymphocytes, yet PDGFRB remains a common fusion partner in leukemias. Here, we demonstrate that the EBF1-PDGFRB fusion results in loss of EBF1 function, multimerization and autophosphorylation of the fusion protein, activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) signaling and gain of interleukin-7 (IL-7)-independent cell proliferation. Deregulation and loss of EBF1 function is critically dependent on the nuclear export activity of the transmembrane (TM) domain of PDGFRB. Deletion of the TM domain partially rescues EBF1 function and restores IL-7 dependence, without requiring kinase inhibition. Moreover, we demonstrate that EBF1-PDGFRB synergizes with loss of IKAROS function in a fully penetrant B-ALL in vivo. Thus, we establish that EBF1-PDGFRB is sufficient to drive leukemogenesis through TM-dependent loss of transcription factor function, increased proliferation and synergy with additional genetic insults including loss of IKAROS function.
Primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) is a systematic autoimmune disease with evidence of genetic predisposition. The IKZF1 (IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (Ikaros)) gene is located at 7p12.2, encodes a transcription factor related to chromatin remodeling, regulates lymphocyte differentiation, and has been reported to be associated with some autoimmune diseases. However, there have been no reports of an association between IKZF1 and pSS. To investigate the possibility of an association between the IKZF1 locus and pSS, we selected two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the IKZF1 locus, rs4917129 and rs4917014, based on a detailed analysis of genome-wide association study (GWAS) data and performed genotyping in 665 Han Chinese pSS patients and 863 healthy controls. The results of an association test showed significant association signals (rs4917129: P-value = 5.5e-4, OR (odds ratio) = 0.72, 95% CI (confidence interval) = 0.60-0.87; rs4917014: P-value = 1.2e-3, OR = 0.76, 95% CI = 0.64-0.89). A meta-analysis that combined the above results with data from previous GWAS, further confirmed these associations (rs4917129: Pmeta = 4.24e-8, ORmeta = 0.70, 95% CI = 0.61-0.79; rs4917014: Pmeta = 6.0e-8, ORmeta = 0.72, 95% CI = 0.64-0.81). A bioinformatics analysis indicated that both SNPs were located in a putative enhancer area in immune-related cell lines and tissues. A protein-protein interaction analysis found that IKZF1, together with GTF2I (an SS susceptibility gene newly identified through GWAS), could interact with histone deacetylase family proteins. In summary, this is the first study to report an association between IKZF1 and SS in Han Chinese.
Background: Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4)/multiple myeloma oncogene-1 (MUM1) is a member of the interferon regulatory factor family of transcriptional factors. Although IRF4/MUM1 expression is associated with aggressiveness of B-cell lymphoma and multiple myeloma, the prognostic value of IRF4/MUM1 expression in peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) is unclear. Methods: We analyzed a tissue array from 69 patients diagnosed with PTCL. The expression levels of IRF4/MUM1 and associated proteins such as MYC and Ikaros were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Samples were classified by IRF4/MUM1 expression into a negative group (less than 5% of all tumor cells staining positive) or a positive group (≥ 5% of all tumor cells staining positive). Results: IRF4/MUM1 expression was observed in 33% of all patients (23/69), most frequently in patients with anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL, 78%, 7/9). Patients with PTCL, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS) and angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) showed expression rates of 33% (9/28) and 50% (4/8), respectively, whereas only 3 patients with extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma (12%, 3/24) showed positive staining. The percentage of IRF4-positive tumor cells was significantly associated with the percentage of MYC-positive tumor cells (R: 0.410, P=0.013). Comparison of survival outcomes revealed that the IRF4/MUM1-positive group exhibited worse survival than the IRF4/MUM1-negative group; moreover, IRF4/MUM1-positive patients with a high level of MYC expression had the worst survival of all patients with nodal PTCL (PTCL-NOS, AITL, and ALCL; n=45) (P < 0.05).Conclusions: IRF4/MUM1 expression was associated with poor survival outcomes in PTCL, implying that this gene is a potential therapeutic target.
MDIG is known to be overexpressed in many types of human cancers and has demonstrated predictive power in the prognosis of cancer, although the functions and mechanisms of MDIG in liver cancer, especially in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), are still unknown. In this study, we report that MDIG and MYC were negatively regulated by IKZF1. MDIG overexpression substantially promoted HCC cell proliferation, cell migration and spreading, whereas knockdown of MDIG would reverse above-mentioned effect. MDIG effects on tumour cell growth were further demonstrated in a tumour xenograft model. Moreover, MDIG had effects on the level of p21(CIP1/WAF1) via H3K9me3 expression in HCC. MDIG was also found to be closely related to the sorafenib resistance of HCC cells in vitro. Clinically, we found that MDIG was frequently overexpressed in human HCCs (69.7%; n=155) and was significantly associated with histological grade and hepatitis B virus infection. Our findings indicate that MDIG plays an important role in HCC progression via MDIG/H3K9me3/p21(CIP1/WAF1) signalling and serves as a potential therapeutic target.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Loss of IKAROS in committed B cell precursors causes a block in differentiation while at the same time augments aberrant cellular properties, such as bone marrow stromal adhesion, self-renewal and resistance to glucocorticoid-mediated cell death. B cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemias originating from these early stages of B cell differentiation and associated with IKAROS mutations share a high-risk cellular phenotype suggesting that deregulation of IKAROS-based mechanisms cause a highly malignant disease process.RECENT STUDIES: Recent studies show that IKAROS is critical for the activity of super-enhancers at genes required for pre-B cell receptor (BCR) signalling and differentiation, working either downstream of or in parallel with B cell master regulators such as EBF1 and PAX5. IKAROS also directly represses a cryptic regulatory network of transcription factors prevalent in mesenchymal and epithelial precursors that includes YAP1, TEAD1/2, LHX2 and LMO2, and their targets, which are not normally expressed in lymphocytes. IKAROS prevents not only expression of these 'extra-lineage' transcription factors but also their cooperation with endogenous B cell master regulators, such as EBF1 and PAX5, leading to the formation of a de novo for lymphocytes super-enhancer network. IKAROS coordinates with the Polycomb repression complex (PRC2) to provide stable repression of associated genes during B cell development. However, induction of regulatory factors normally repressed by IKAROS starts a feed-forward loop that activates de-novo enhancers and elevates them to super-enhancer status, thereby diminishing PRC2 repression and awakening aberrant epithelial-like cell properties in B cell precursors.SUMMARY: Insight into IKAROS-based transcriptional circuits not only sets new paradigms for cell differentiation but also provides new approaches for classifying and treating high-risk human B-ALL that originates from these early stages of B cell differentiation.
The drugs lenalidomide and pomalidomide bind to the protein cereblon, directing the CRL4-CRBN E3 ligase toward the transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos to cause their ubiquitination and degradation. Here we describe CC-220 (compound 6), a cereblon modulator in clinical development for systemic lupus erythematosis and relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Compound 6 binds cereblon with a higher affinity than lenalidomide or pomalidomide. Consistent with this, the cellular degradation of Ikaros and Aiolos is more potent and the extent of substrate depletion is greater. The crystal structure of cereblon in complex with DDB1 and compound 6 reveals that the increase in potency correlates with increased contacts between compound 6 and cereblon away from the modeled binding site for Ikaros/Aiolos. These results describe a new cereblon modulator which achieves greater substrate degradation via tighter binding to the cereblon E3 ligase and provides an example of the effect of E3 ligase binding affinity with relevance to other drug discovery efforts in targeted protein degradation.
Genes related to key cellular pathways are frequently altered in B cell ALL and are associated with poor survival especially in high-risk (HR) subgroups. We examined gene copy number abnormalities (CNA) in 101 Indian HR B cell ALL patients and their correlation with clinicopathological features by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. Overall, CNA were detected in 59 (59%) cases, with 26, 10 and 23% of cases harboring 1, 2 or +3 CNA. CNA were more prevalent in BCR-ABL1 (60%), pediatric (64%) and high WCC (WBC count) (63%) patients. Frequent genes deletions included CDNK2A/B (26%), IKZF1 (25%), PAX5 (14%), JAK2 (7%), BTG1 (6%), RB1 (5%), EBF1 (4%), ETV6 (4%), while PAR1 region genes were predominantly duplicated (20%). EBF1 deletions selectively associated with adults, IKZF1 deletions occurred frequently in high WCC and BCR-ABL1 cases, while PAR1 region gains significantly associated with MLL-AF4 cases. IKZF1 haploinsufficiency group was predominant, especially in adults (65%), high WCC (60%) patients and BCR-ABL1-negative (78%) patients. Most cases harbored multiple concurrent CNA, with IKZF1 concomitantly occurring with CDNK2A/B, PAX5 and BTG1, while JAK2 occurred with CDNK2A/B and PAX5. Mutually exclusive CNA included ETV6 and IKZF1/RB1, and EBF1 and JAK2. Our results corroborate with global reports, aggregating molecular markers in Indian HR B-ALL cases. Integration of CNA data from rapid methods like MLPA, onto background of existing gold-standard methods detecting significant chromosomal abnormalities, provides a comprehensive genetic profile in B-ALL.
Lymphocyte differentiation is set to produce myriad immune effector cells with the ability to respond to multitudinous foreign substances. The uniqueness of this developmental system lies in not only the great diversity of cellular functions that it can generate but also the ability of its differentiation intermediates and mature effector cells to expand upon demand, thereby providing lifelong immunity. Surprisingly, the goals of this developmental system are met by a relatively small group of DNA-binding transcription factors that work in concert to control the timing and magnitude of gene expression and fulfill the demands for cellular specialization, expansion, and maintenance. The cellular and molecular mechanisms through which these lineage-promoting transcription factors operate have been a focus of basic research in immunology. The mechanisms of development discerned in this effort are guiding clinical research on disorders with an immune cell base. Here, I focus on IKAROS, one of the earliest regulators of lymphoid lineage identity and a guardian of lymphocyte homeostasis.
The zinc-finger transcription factor PRDM1 (PR domain containing 1) plays key roles in the development of malignant lymphoma, leukaemia and some non-haematopoietic cancers, including breast cancer, colorectal cancer and glioma. However, little is known regarding the function of PRDM1 in the progression of lung cancer. Here, we found that PRDM1 is expressed in normal human lung epithelium but is downregulated in lung cancer cells. Decreased expression of PRDM1 correlates with poor prognosis in lung cancer. Depletion of PRDM1 in lung cancer cells promotes cellular invasion and anoikis resistance in vitro and lung metastasis in vivo. PRDM1 is silenced by an ectopically expressed lymphocyte-specific transcription factor Aiolos. The transcription of these two genes is negatively correlated in 206 lung epithelial cell lines. Our results indicate that PRDM1 functions as a tumour suppressor in lung cancer.
The Ikaros family of transcription factors includes five highly homologous members that can homodimerize or heterodimerize in any combination. Dimerization is essential for their ability to bind DNA and function as transcription factors. Previous studies showed that eliminating the function of the entire family blocks lymphocyte development while deletion of individual family members has relatively minor defects. These data indicate that multiple family members function during T cell development, so we examined the changes in expression of each family member as thymocytes progressed from the CD4-CD8- double negative (DN) to the CD4+CD8+ double positive (DP) developmental stage. Further, we compared the expression of each family member in murine and human thymocytes. In both species, Ikaros and Aiolos mRNA levels increased as thymocytes progressed through the DN to DP transition, but the corresponding increases in protein levels were only observed in mice. Further, Ikaros and Aiolos underwent extensive alternative splicing in mice, whereas only Ikaros was extensively spliced in humans. Helios mRNA and protein levels decreased during murine T cell development, but increased during human T cell development. These differences in the expression and splicing of Ikaros family members between human and murine thymocytes strongly suggest that the Ikaros family of transcription factors regulates murine and human T cell development differently, although the similarities across Ikaros family members may allow different proteins to fulfill similar functions.
BACKGROUND: A high-level expression of the CRLF2 gene is frequent in precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (pB-ALL) and can be caused by different genetic aberrations. The presence of the most frequent alteration, the P2RY8/CRLF2 fusion, was shown to be associated with a high relapse incidence in children treated according to ALL-Berlin-Frankfurt-Münster (BFM) protocols, which is poorly understood. Moreover, the frequency of other alterations has not been systematically analyzed yet.PROCEDURE: CRLF2 mRNA expression and potential genetic aberrations causing a CRLF2 high expression were prospectively assessed in 1,105 patients treated according to the Associazione Italiana Ematologia Oncologia Pediatrica (AIEOP)-BFM ALL 2009 protocol. Additionally, we determined copy number alterations in selected B-cell differentiation genes for all CRLF2 high-expressing pB-ALL cases, as well as JAK2 and CRLF2 mutations.RESULTS: A CRLF2 high expression was detected in 26/178 (15%) T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cases, 21 of them (81%) had been stratified as high-risk patients by treatment response. In pB-ALL, a CRLF2 high expression was determined in 91/927 (10%) cases; the P2RY8/CRLF2 rearrangement in 44/91 (48%) of them, supernumerary copies of CRLF2 in 18/91 (20%), and, notably, the IGH/CRLF2 translocation was detected in 16/91 (18%). Remarkably, 7 of 16 (44%) patients with IGH/CRLF2 translocation had already relapsed. P2RY8/CRLF2- and IGH/CRLF2-positive samples (70 and 94%, respectively) were characterized by a high frequency of additional deletions in B-cell differentiation genes such as IKZF1 or PAX5.CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that this high frequency of genetic aberrations in the context of a high CRLF2 expression could contribute to the high risk of relapse in P2RY8/CRLF2- and IGH/CRLF2-positive ALL.
Comment in    Cell Death Differ. 2017 Jun;24(6):953-954.    Nat Immunol. 2017 May 18;18(6):597-598.
We previously disclosed the identification of cereblon modulator 3 (CC-885), with potent antitumor activity mediated through the degradation of GSPT1. We describe herein the structure-activity relationships for analogs of 3 with exploration of the structurally related dioxoisoindoline class. The observed activity of protein degradation could in part be rationalized through docking into the previously disclosed 3-CRBN-GSPT1 cocrystal ternary complex. For SAR that could not be rationalized through the cocrystal complex, we sought to predict SAR through a QSAR model developed in house. Through these analyses, selective protein degradation could be achieved between the two proteins of interest, GSPT1 and Aiolos.
Comment in    Blood. 2017 May 18;129(20):2713-2714.
Glutamine synthetase (GS) plays an essential role in metabolism by catalyzing the synthesis of glutamine from glutamate and ammonia. Our recent study showed that CRBN, a direct protein target for the teratogenic and antitumor activities of immunomodulatory drugs such as thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide, recognizes an acetyl degron of GS, resulting in ubiquitylation and degradation of GS in response to glutamine. Here, we report that valosin-containing protein (VCP)/p97 promotes the degradation of ubiquitylated GS, resulting in its accumulation in cells with compromised p97 function. Notably, p97 is also required for the degradation of all four known CRBN neo-substrates [Ikaros family zinc finger proteins 1 (IKZF1) and 3 (IKZF3), casein kinase 1α (CK1α), and the translation termination factor GSPT1] whose ubiquitylation is induced by immunomodulatory drugs. Together, these data point to an unexpectedly intimate relationship between the E3 ubiquitin ligase CRL4CRBN and p97 pathways.
Turning genes on and off is essential for development and homeostasis, yet little is known about the sequence and causal role of chromatin state changes during the repression of active genes. This is surprising, as defective gene silencing underlies developmental abnormalities and disease. Here we delineate the sequence and functional contribution of transcriptional repression mechanisms at high temporal resolution. Inducible entry of the NuRD-interacting transcriptional regulator Ikaros into mouse pre-B cell nuclei triggered immediate binding to target gene promoters. Rapid RNAP2 eviction, transcriptional shutdown, nucleosome invasion, and reduced transcriptional activator binding required chromatin remodeling by NuRD-associated Mi2beta/CHD4, but were independent of HDAC activity. Histone deacetylation occurred after transcriptional repression. Nevertheless, HDAC activity contributed to stable gene silencing. Hence, high resolution mapping of transcriptional repression reveals complex and interdependent mechanisms that underpin rapid transitions between transcriptional states, and elucidates the temporal order, functional role and mechanistic separation of NuRD-associated enzymatic activities.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2017 May 31;12 (5):e0179069.
Retinoic-acid-orphan-receptor-C (RORC) is a master regulator of Th17 cells, which are pathogenic in several autoimmune diseases. Genetic Rorc deficiency in mice, while preventing autoimmunity, causes early lethality due to metastatic thymic T cell lymphomas. We sought to determine whether pharmacological RORC inhibition could be an effective and safe therapy for autoimmune diseases by evaluating its effects on Th17 cell functions and intrathymic T cell development. RORC inhibitors effectively inhibited Th17 differentiation and IL-17A production, and delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions. In vitro, RORC inhibitors induced apoptosis, as well as Bcl2l1 and BCL2L1 mRNA downregulation, in mouse and nonhuman primate thymocytes, respectively. Chronic, 13-week RORC inhibitor treatment in rats caused progressive thymic alterations in all analyzed rats similar to those in Rorc-deficient mice prior to T cell lymphoma development. One rat developed thymic cortical hyperplasia with preneoplastic features, including increased mitosis and reduced IKAROS expression, albeit without skewed T cell clonality. In summary, pharmacological inhibition of RORC not only blocks Th17 cell development and related cytokine production, but also recapitulates thymic aberrations seen in Rorc-deficient mice. While RORC inhibition may offer an effective therapeutic principle for Th17-mediated diseases, T cell lymphoma with chronic therapy remains an apparent risk.
Here, we unravel the mechanism of action of the Ikaros family zinc finger protein Helios (He) during the development of striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs). He regulates the second wave of striatal neurogenesis involved in the generation of striatopallidal neurons, which express dopamine 2 receptor and enkephalin. To exert this effect, He is expressed in neural progenitor cells (NPCs) keeping them in the G1/G0 phase of the cell cycle. Thus, a lack of He results in an increase of S-phase entry and S-phase length of NPCs, which in turn impairs striatal neurogenesis and produces an accumulation of the number of cycling NPCs in the germinal zone (GZ), which end up dying at postnatal stages. Therefore, He-/- mice show a reduction in the number of dorso-medial striatal MSNs in the adult that produces deficits in motor skills acquisition. In addition, overexpression of He in NPCs induces misexpression of DARPP-32 when transplanted in mouse striatum. These findings demonstrate that He is involved in the correct development of a subset of striatopallidal MSNs and reveal new cellular mechanisms for neuronal development.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive hematologic malignancy, and T-ALL patients are prone to early disease relapse and suffer from poor outcomes. The PTEN, PI3K/AKT and Notch pathways are frequently altered in T-ALL. PTEN is a tumor suppressor that inactivates the PI3K pathway. We profiled miRNAs in Pten-deficient mouse T-ALL and identified miR-26b as a potentially dysregulated gene. We validated decreased expression levels of miR-26b in mouse and human T-ALL cells. In addition, expression of exogenous miR-26b reduced proliferation and promoted apoptosis of T-ALL cells in vitro, and hindered progression of T-ALL in vivo. Furthermore, miR-26b inhibited the PI3K/AKT pathway by directly targeting PIK3CD, the gene encoding PI3Kδ, in human T-ALL cell lines. ShRNA for PIK3CD and CAL-101, a PIK3CD inhibitor, reduced the growth and increased apoptosis of T-ALL cells. Finally, we showed that PTEN induced miR-26b expression by regulating the differential expression of Ikaros isoforms that are transcriptional regulators of miR-26b. These results suggest that miR-26b functions as a tumor suppressor in the development of T-ALL. Further characterization of targets and regulators of miR-26b may be promising for the development of novel therapies.
Chromosomal region 17q12-q21 is associated with asthma and harbors regulatory polymorphisms that influence expression levels of all five protein-coding genes in the region: IKAROS family zinc finger 3 (Aiolos) (IKZF3), zona pellucida binding protein 2 (ZPBP2), ORMDL sphingolipid biosynthesis regulator 3 (ORMDL3), and gasdermins A and B (GSDMA, GSDMB). Furthermore, DNA methylation in this region has been implicated as a potential modifier of the genetic risk of asthma development. To further characterize the effect of DNA methylation, we examined the impact of treatment with DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC) that causes DNA demethylation, on expression and promoter methylation of the five 17q12-q21 genes in the human airway epithelium cell line NuLi-1, embryonic kidney epithelium cell line 293T and human adenocarcinoma cell line MCF-7. 5-aza-dC treatment led to upregulation of expression of GSDMA in all three cell lines. ZPBP2 was upregulated in NuLi-1, but remained repressed in 293T and MCF-7 cells, whereas ORMDL3 was upregulated in 293T and MCF-7 cells, but not NuLi-1. Upregulation of ZPBP2 and GSDMA was accompanied by a decrease in promoter methylation. Moreover, 5-aza-dC treatment modified allelic expression of ZPBP2 and ORMDL3 suggesting that different alleles may respond differently to treatment. We also identified a polymorphic CTCF-binding site in intron 1 of ORMDL3 carrying a CG SNP rs4065275 and determined its methylation level. The site's methylation was unaffected by 5-aza-dC treatment in NuLi-1 cells. We conclude that modest changes (8-13%) in promoter methylation levels of ZPBP2 and GSDMA may cause substantial changes in RNA levels and that allelic expression of ZPBP2 and ORMDL3 is mediated by DNA methylation.
We present a comprehensive comparison of PAX5,IKZF1, and CDKN2A/B abnormalities in 21 B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) patients studied by aCGH and gene-specific FISH assays. In our cohort of B-ALL patients, alterations of IKZF1, PAX5, and CDKN2A/B were detected by aCGH analysis in 43, 52, and 57% of samples, respectively. Deletions of IKZF1 were present in 9 samples, including 5 cases positive for both PAX5 and IKZF1 deletions, implying digenic impairment. Furthermore, all cases with IKZF1 deletions also had additional genomic alterations, including BCR-ABL1 gene fusions, PAX5 deletions, CDKN2A/B deletions, and FLT3 amplification. Deletions of CDKN2A/B represented the most frequent abnormalities in our group of patients. Our study demonstrates the high incidence of PAX5, IKZF1, and CDKN2A/B alterations in B-ALL detected by aCGH analysis. Due to the small size and variability in the deletion breakpoints, FISH studies showed false-negative results in 10, 40, and 28% of the samples tested for the IKZF1,PAX5, and CDKN2A/B gene deletions, respectively. The PAX5 and IKZF1 abnormalities are highly specific to B-ALL and can be used as diagnostic markers. Moreover, IKZF1 alterations frequently coexist with a BCR-ABL gene fusion. Our study revealed multiple additional B-ALL-specific genomic alterations and showed that aCGH is a more sensitive method than FISH, allowing whole genome profiling and identification of aberrations of diagnostic and prognostic significance in patients with B-ALL.
Erratum in    Nature. 2018 Jun;558(7711):E5.
Two distinct forms of neoplasms derived from plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDC) exist: mature PDC proliferations associated with myeloid neoplasms and blastic PDC neoplasms (BPDCN). Ten cases of PDC proliferations and neoplasms in the bone marrow have been submitted to the bone marrow workshop held at the 18th EAHP meeting. Based on observations from the submitted cases, scattered PDC (≤1% of cells) and PDC aggregates (≤10 PDC/HPF) reflect the normal bone marrow composition, while in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), there is a propensity for larger/more PDC aggregates (1-5% and 35 PDC/HPF). A shared PTPN11 mutation between a mature PDC proliferation and an accompanying MDS provides evidence of clonal relationship in such instances and shows that PDC are a part of the malignant clone. CD123 and CD303 should be considered backbone markers to histopathologically establish the diagnosis of BPDCN, since they are detectable in almost all cases and properly well on biopsies subjected to different fixations. Expression of some T-cell markers (e.g., CD2 and CD7 but not CD3), B-cell markers (e.g., CD79a but not CD19 and CD20), and myeloid markers (e.g., CD33 and CD117 but not myeloperoxidase) can be observed in BPDCN. Genetical data of the summarized cases corroborate the important role of chromosomal losses in BPDCN. Together with five previously reported instances, one additional workshop case with MYC rearrangement proposes that translocations of MYC may be recurrent. The frequent nature of deleterious mutations of IKZF3 and deletions of IKZF1 suggests a role for the Ikaros family proteins in BPDCN.
Inactivation of the tumor suppressor gene encoding the transcriptional regulator Ikaros (IKZF1) is a hallmark of BCR-ABL1+ precursor B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (pre-B ALL). However, the mechanisms by which Ikaros functions as a tumor suppressor in pre-B ALL remain poorly understood. Here, we analyzed a mouse model of BCR-ABL1+ pre-B ALL together with a new model of inducible expression of wild-type Ikaros in IKZF1 mutant human BCR-ABL1+ pre-B ALL. We performed integrated genome-wide chromatin and expression analyses and identified Ikaros target genes in mouse and human BCR-ABL1+ pre-B ALL, revealing novel conserved gene pathways associated with Ikaros tumor suppressor function. Notably, genetic depletion of different Ikaros targets, including CTNND1 and the early hematopoietic cell surface marker CD34, resulted in reduced leukemic growth. Our results suggest that Ikaros mediates tumor suppressor function by enforcing proper developmental stage-specific expression of multiple genes through chromatin compaction at its target genes.
Comment in    Schjerven et al.
Author information:(1)Secretaría de Salud, Instituto Nacional de Pediatría, Unidad de Investigación en Inmunodeficiencias. Ciudad de México, México. lberronruiz@yahoo.com.mx.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) evades immune destruction by favoring the development of regulatory T cells (Tregs) that inhibit effector T cells. The transcription factor Ikaros is critical for lymphocyte development, especially T cells. We have previously shown that downregulation of Ikaros occurs as a result of its protein degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome system in our Panc02 tumor-bearing (TB) mouse model. Mechanistically, we observed a deregulation in the balance between Casein Kinase II (CK2) and protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), which suggested that increased CK2 activity is responsible for regulating Ikaros' stability in our model. We also showed that this loss of Ikaros expression is associated with a significant decrease in CD4+ and CD8+ T cell percentages but increased CD4+CD25+ Tregs in TB mice. In this study, we evaluated the effects of the dietary flavonoid apigenin (API), on Ikaros expression and T cell immune responses. Treatment of splenocytes from naïve mice with (API) stabilized Ikaros expression and prevented Ikaros downregulation in the presence of murine Panc02 cells in vitro, similar to the proteasome inhibitor MG132. In vivo treatment of TB mice with apigenin (TB-API) improved survival, reduced tumor weights and prevented splenomegaly. API treatment also restored protein expression of some Ikaros isoforms, which may be attributed to its moderate inhibition of CK2 activity from splenocytes of TB-API mice. This partial restoration of Ikaros expression was accompanied by a significant increase in CD4+ and CD8+ T cell percentages and a reduction in Treg percentages in TB-API mice. In addition, CD8+ T cells from TB-API mice produced more IFN-γ and their splenocytes were better able to prime allogeneic CD8+ T cell responses compared to TB mice. These results provide further evidence that Ikaros is regulated by CK2 in our pancreatic cancer model. More importantly, our findings suggest that API may be a possible therapeutic agent for stabilizing Ikaros expression and function to maintain T cell homeostasis in murine PC.
Regulatory T (Treg) cells play a central role in immune tolerance and prevention of aberrant immune responses. Several studies have suggested that the risk of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) can be ameliorated by increasing Tregs. We have developed an approach of in vivo expansion of Tregs with RGI-2001, a novel liposomal formulation of a synthetic derivative of alpha-galactosylceramide, a naturally occurring ligand that binds to CD1 and activates and expands invariant natural killer cells. In preclinical studies, a single intravenous infusion of RGI-2001 expanded Treg and could ameliorate GVHD in a mouse model of allogeneic HCT. To explore the role of RGI-2001 in clinical HCT, we initiated a phase 2A clinical trial (n = 29), testing 2 different doses of RGI-2001 administered as a single infusion on day 0 of allogeneic HCT. RGI-2001 was well tolerated and without infusion reactions or cytokine release syndrome. A subset of patients (8 of 29, 28%) responded to RGI-2001 by inducing a markedly increased number of cells with a Treg phenotype. The Treg had a high Ki-67 index and were almost exclusively Helios+ and Foxp3+, indicating that their accumulation was due to expansion of natural Treg. Notably, the incidence of grade 2 to 4 GVHD in the 8 patients who responded to RGI-2001 was 12.5%, compared with 52.4% in the 21 patients who did not respond. No grade 3 or 4 GVHD was observed in the responder group, compared with a 9.5% incidence among nonresponders. Immunosuppression with sirolimus was also associated with a low incidence of GVHD, suggesting that RGI-2001 may have synergized with sirolimus to promote Treg expansion.
Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) are a cornerstone in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM), but specific markers to predict outcome are still missing. Recent work pointed to a prognostic role for IMiD target genes (e.g. CRBN). Moreover, indirect activity of IMiDs on immune cells correlated with outcome, raising the possibility that cell populations in the bone marrow (BM) microenvironment could serve as biomarkers. We therefore analysed gene expression levels of six IMiD target genes in whole BM samples of 44 myeloma patients treated with lenalidomide-dexamethasone. Expression of CRBN (R = 0.30, P = .05), IKZF1 (R = 0.31, P = .04), IRF4 (R = 0.38, P = .01), MCT-1 (R = 0.30, P = .05), and CD147 (R = 0.38, P = .01), but not IKZF3 (R = -0.15, P = .34), was significantly associated with response. Interestingly, IKZF1 expression was elevated in BM environmental cells and thus selected for further investigation by multicolor flow cytometry. High IKAROS protein levels in total BM mononuclear cells (median OS 83.4 vs. 32.2 months, P = .02), CD19+ B cells (median OS 71.1 vs. 32.2 months, P = .05), CD3+ CD8+ T cells (median OS 83.4 vs 19.0 months, P = .008) as well as monocytes (median OS 53.9 vs 18.0 months, P = .009) were associated with superior overall survival (OS). In contrast, IKAROS protein expression in MM cells was not predictive for OS. Our data therefore corroborate the central role of immune cells for the clinical activity of IMiDs and built the groundwork for prospective analysis of IKAROS protein levels in distinct cell populations as a potential biomarker for IMiD based therapies.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is characterized by an increase in interleukin-22 and Fas, and a decrease in FOXP3, among other factors. In this study, we examined patients with MS and healthy control subjects and used the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) animal model to identify the effects of IL-22 on oligodendrocytes and T cells in MS development. In MS, the expression of Fas in oligodendrocytes and IL-22 in CD4+CCR4+CCR6+CCR10+ T cells was enhanced. Ikaros and FOXP3 were both decreased in T cells. Depending on exogenous IL-22, Fas increased the phosphorylation of mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase 1 and activated the nuclear factor-κB pathway in oligodendrocytes, leading to an increase in Fas and oligodendrocyte apoptosis. IL-22 decreased FOXP3 expression by activating NF-κB, and it further inhibited PTEN and Ikaros expression. Tregs reversed the functions of IL-22. Taken together, these findings help to elucidate the mechanisms of IL-22 in MS development.
B-Cell CLL/Lymphoma 6 (BCL6) is a proto-oncogene that is highly expressed in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). BTB and CNC Homology 1 Basic Leucine Zipper Transcription Factor 2 (BACH2) is a suppressor of transcription. The BACH2-BCL6 balance controls selection at the pre-B cell receptor checkpoint by regulating p53 expression. However, the underlying mechanism and the clinical relevance of the BCL6/BACH2 axis are unknown. Here, we found that Ikaros, a tumor suppressor encoded by IKZF1, directly binds to both the BCL6 and BACH2 promoters where it suppresses BCL6 and promotes BACH2 expression in B-cell ALL (B-ALL) cells. Casein kinase 2 (CK2) inhibitors increase Ikaros function thereby inhibiting BCL6 and promoting BACH2 expression in an Ikaros-dependent manner. We also found that the expression of BCL6 is higher while BACH2 expression is lower in patients with B-ALL than normal bone marrow control. High BCL6 and low BACH2 expression is associated with high leukemic cell proliferation, unfavorable clinical and laboratory features, and inferior outcomes. Moreover, IKZF1 deletion is associated with high BCL6 and low BACH2 expression in B-ALL patients. CK2 inhibitors increase Ikaros binding to the promoter of BCL6 and BACH2 and suppress BCL6 while promoting BACH2 expression in the primary B-ALL cells. Our data indicates that Ikaros regulates expression of the BCL6/BACH2 axis in B-ALL. High BCL6 and low BACH2 expression are associated with Ikaros dysregulation and have a potential effect on the development of B-ALL.
Comment in    Blood. 2017 Feb 23;129(8):923-925.
Lenalidomide is an immunomodulatory compound with high clinical activity in multiple myeloma. Lenalidomide binding to the Cereblon (CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase results in targeted ubiquitination and degradation of the lymphoid transcription factors Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3) leading to growth inhibition of multiple myeloma cells. Recently, Basigin (BSG) was identified as another protein regulated by CRBN that is involved in the activity of lenalidomide. Here, we analyzed the prognostic value of IKZF1, IKZF3, CRBN and BSG mRNA expression levels in pretreatment plasma cells from 60 patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma uniformly treated with lenalidomide in combination with intensive chemotherapy within a clinical trial. We found that IKZF1 mRNA expression levels are significantly associated with progression-free survival (PFS). Patients in the lowest quartile (Q1) of IKZF1 expression had a superior PFS compared with patients in the remaining quartiles (Q2-Q4; 3-year PFS of 86 vs 51%, P=0.01). This translated into a significant better overall survival (100 vs 74%, P=0.03). Subgroup analysis revealed a significant impact of IKZF1, IKZF3 and BSG expression levels on PFS in cytogenetically defined standard-risk but not high-risk patients. Our data suggest a prognostic role of IKZF1, IKZF3 and BSG expression levels in lenalidomide-treated multiple myeloma.
The B-cell activating factor (BAFF) is a member of tumour necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily that specifically regulates B lymphocyte proliferation and survival. Excess BAFF leads to overproduction of antibodies for secretion, anti-dsDNA antibodies and a lupus-like syndrome in mice. To investigate whether transgenic overexpression of the zebrafish BAFF leads to immunoglobulin changes and/or early maturing of the immune system, a Tol2-GFP-2A-BAFF/His recombinant plasmid was constructed by inserting a 2A peptide between the green fluorescent protein (GFP) and BAFF sequences. Functional GFP and BAFF proteins were expressed separately and confirmed in HeLa cells. The relative expression of immune-related genes (IgLC-1, IgLC-2, IgLC-3, IgD, IgM and IL-4), early lymphoid markers (Ikaros, Rag-1 and TCRAC), and the protooncogene Bcl-2 were evaluated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in F0 founder of transgenic zebrafish juveniles and adults. Ectopic expression of BAFF in adults was confirmed using Western blots and was shown to upregulate IgLC-1, IgLC-2, IgD, IgM, IgZ/T, Ikaros, Rag-1, TCRAC, IL-4 and Bcl-2 expression in juveniles on day 21 and IgLC-1, IgLC-2, IgD, IgM,IgZ/T, Rag-1, TCRAC and Bcl-2 expression in zebrafish three months postfertilization. The relative titers of specific IgM against Edwardsiella tarda WED were assessed using modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with the whole body homogenate of zebrafish and demonstrated a significant increase in BAFF-transgenic group. Therefore, our findings provided novel insight into further exploration of modulating adaptive immunity and studying autoimmune diseases caused by regulating BAFF.
Increasing evidence has shown that zinc-alpha2-glycoprotein (AZGP1) is associated with the progression and prognosis of several tumor types. However, little is known regarding the underlying molecular mechanisms of AZGP1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In this study, we report that transcription factor Ikaros bound to the AZGP1 promoter and increased its expression in HCC cells. The downregulation of AZGP1 was associated with histone deacetylation in HCC. In addition, the positive feedback regulation via acetylation of histone H4-mediated transactivation of the Ikaros promoter and the Ikaros-mediated transactivation of the acetylation of histone H4 were crucial for regulating AZGP1 expression in HCC cells. Moreover, low serum AZGP1 level in HCC patients was associated with poor prognosis. The ectopic overexpression of AZGP1 or recombinant AZGP1 protein inhibited HCC cell proliferation, migration and invasion in vitro and in vivo, whereas silencing AZGP1 expression resulted in increased cell proliferation, migration and invasion in vitro. In addition, we found that AZGP1 inhibited cell migration and invasion through the regulation of the PTEN/Akt and CD44s pathways. Collectively, our findings revealed the molecular mechanism of AZGP1 expression in HCC, providing new insights into the mechanisms underlying tumor progression.
Deletions and mutations affecting lymphoid transcription factor IKZF1 (IKAROS) are associated with an increased relapse risk and poor outcome in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia. However, additional genetic events may either enhance or negate the effects of IKZF1 deletions on prognosis. In a large discovery cohort of 533 childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients, we observed that single-copy losses of BTG1 were significantly enriched in IKZF1-deleted B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (P=0.007). While BTG1 deletions alone had no impact on prognosis, the combined presence of BTG1 and IKZF1 deletions was associated with a significantly lower 5-year event-free survival (P=0.0003) and a higher 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse (P=0.005), when compared with IKZF1-deleted cases without BTG1 aberrations. In contrast, other copy number losses commonly observed in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia, such as CDKN2A/B, PAX5, EBF1 or RB1, did not affect the outcome of IKZF1-deleted acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients. To establish whether the combined loss of IKZF1 and BTG1 function cooperate in leukemogenesis, Btg1-deficient mice were crossed onto an Ikzf1 heterozygous background. We observed that loss of Btg1 increased the tumor incidence of Ikzf1+/- mice in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, murine B cells deficient for Btg1 and Ikzf1+/- displayed increased resistance to glucocorticoids, but not to other chemotherapeutic drugs. Together, our results identify BTG1 as a tumor suppressor in leukemia that, when deleted, strongly enhances the risk of relapse in IKZF1-deleted B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and augments the glucocorticoid resistance phenotype mediated by the loss of IKZF1 function.
Regulatory CD4+ T cells (Tregs) are pivotal for prevention of autoimmunity. The use of Tregs is therefore of increasing interest in in vitro drug screening assays as well as for a cytotherapy per se against autoimmune disorders. For both purposes, in vitro expansion of peripheral blood Tregs is necessary and there is an increasing need to identify novel markers that can discriminate natural thymic-derived Tregs (tTregs) from other T cell subsets, and ideally, such markers should be stably expressed during in vitro expansion procedures. We screened for novel miRNAs differentially expressed in tTregs and identified miR-146a and 142-3p as possible candidates. We analysed freshly isolated naïve and activated tTregs and non-Treg subsets after or prior to in vitro expansion. We observed a tTreg-specific profile of these miRNAs together with FOXP3 and Helios in freshly isolated tTregs, but observed a decline in the same markers in activated tTregs as opposed to naïve tTregs. In vitro-expanded Tregs could be identified based on FOXP3 expression, but with loss of a discriminate profile for miRNA candidates and a decline in FOXP3 when activated tTregs were expanded. Our data demonstrate miR-146a and 142-3p as potential miRNA markers for discrimination between non-Treg cells and tTregs, but these miRNAs are not stable markers for in vitro-expanded Treg cells. In addition, the loss of FOXP3 in expansion of activated tTregs has implication for in vitro use of this cell subset in immunopharmacological assays and cytotherapy as FOXP3 is pivotal for suppressive function.
BACKGROUND: Ikaros, which is encoded by IKZF1, is a transcriptional factor that play a critical role in hematopoiesis. Somatic IKZF1 alterations are known to be involved in the pathogenesis of leukemia in human subjects. Recently, immunodeficiency caused by germline IKZF1 mutation has been described.OBJECTIVE: We sought to describe the clinical and immunologic phenotypes of Japanese patients with heterozygous IKZF1 mutations.METHODS: We performed whole-exome sequencing in patients from a dysgammaglobulinemia or autoimmune disease cohort and used a candidate gene approach in 4 patients. Functional and laboratory studies, including detailed lymphopoiesis/hematopoiesis analysis in the bone marrow, were performed.RESULTS: Nine patients from 6 unrelated families were identified to have heterozygous germline mutations in IKZF1. Age of onset was 0 to 20 years (mean, 7.4 years). Eight of 9 patients presented with dysgammaglobulinemia accompanied by B-cell deficiency. Four of 9 patients had autoimmune disease, including immune thrombocytopenic purpura, IgA vasculitis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Nonautoimmune pancytopenia was observed in 1 patient. All of the mutant Ikaros protein demonstrated impaired DNA binding to the target sequence and abnormal diffuse nuclear localization. Flow cytometric analysis of bone marrow revealed reduced levels of common lymphoid progenitors and normal development of pro-B to pre-B cells.CONCLUSIONS: Germline heterozygous IKZF1 mutations cause dysgammaglobulinemia; hematologic abnormalities, including B-cell defect; and autoimmune diseases.
Children with P2RY8-CRLF2-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia have an increased relapse risk. Their mutational and transcriptional landscape, as well as the respective patterns at relapse remain largely elusive. We, therefore, performed an integrated analysis of whole-exome and RNA sequencing in 41 major clone fusion-positive cases including 19 matched diagnosis/relapse pairs. We detected a variety of frequently subclonal and highly instable JAK/STAT but also RTK/Ras pathway-activating mutations in 76% of cases at diagnosis and virtually all relapses. Unlike P2RY8-CRLF2 that was lost in 32% of relapses, all other genomic alterations affecting lymphoid development (58%) and cell cycle (39%) remained stable. Only IKZF1 alterations predominated in relapsing cases (P=0.001) and increased from initially 36 to 58% in matched cases. IKZF1's critical role is further corroborated by its specific transcriptional signature comprising stem cell features with signs of impaired lymphoid differentiation, enhanced focal adhesion, activated hypoxia pathway, deregulated cell cycle and increased drug resistance. Our findings support the notion that P2RY8-CRLF2 is dispensable for relapse development and instead highlight the prominent rank of IKZF1 for relapse development by mediating self-renewal and homing to the bone marrow niche. Consequently, reverting aberrant IKAROS signaling or its disparate programs emerges as an attractive potential treatment option in these leukemias.
Approximately 15% of pediatric B cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) is characterized by gene expression similar to that of BCR-ABL1-positive disease and unfavorable prognosis. This BCR-ABL1-like subtype shows a high frequency of B-cell development gene aberrations and tyrosine kinase-activating lesions. To evaluate the clinical significance of tyrosine kinase gene fusions in children with BCP-ALL, we studied the frequency of recently identified tyrosine kinase fusions, associated genetic features, and prognosis in a representative Dutch/German cohort. We identified 14 tyrosine kinase fusions among 77 BCR-ABL1-like cases (18%) and none among 76 non-BCR-ABL1-like B-other cases. Novel exon fusions were identified for RCSD1-ABL2 and TERF2-JAK2. JAK2 mutation was mutually exclusive with tyrosine kinase fusions and only occurred in cases with high CRLF2 expression. The non/late response rate and levels of minimal residual disease in the fusion-positive BCR-ABL1-like group were higher than in the non-BCR-ABL1-like B-others (p<0.01), and also higher, albeit not statistically significant, compared with the fusion-negative BCR-ABL1-like group. The 8-year cumulative incidence of relapse in the fusion-positive BCR-ABL1-like group (35%) was comparable with that in the fusion-negative BCR-ABL1-like group (35%), and worse than in the non-BCR-ABL1-like B-other group (17%, p=0.07). IKZF1 deletions, predominantly other than the dominant-negative isoform and full deletion, co-occurred with tyrosine kinase fusions. This study shows that tyrosine kinase fusion-positive cases are a high-risk subtype of BCP-ALL, which warrants further studies with specific kinase inhibitors to improve outcome.
Inhibition of the bromodomain and extra-terminal (BET) proteins is a promising therapeutic strategy for various hematologic cancers. Previous studies suggest that BET inhibitors constrain tumor cell proliferation and survival mainly through the suppression of MYC transcription and activity. However, suppression of the transcription of additional genes also contributes to the antitumor activity of BET inhibitors but is less well understood. Here we examined the therapeutic potential of CPI-0610, a potent BET inhibitor currently undergoing phase I clinical testing, in multiple myeloma (MM). CPI-0610 displays potent cytotoxicity against MM cell lines and patient-derived MM cells through G1 cell cycle arrest and caspase-dependent apoptosis. CPI-0610-mediated BET inhibition overcomes the protective effects conferred by cytokines and bone marrow stromal cells. We also confirmed the in vivo efficacy of CPI-0610 in a MM xenograft mouse model. Our study found IKZF1 and IRF4 to be among the primary targets of CPI-0610, along with MYC. Given that immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) stabilize cereblon and facilitate Ikaros degradation in MM cells, we combined it with CPI-0610. Combination studies of CPI-0610 with IMiDs show in vitro synergism, in part due to concomitant suppression of IKZF1, IRF4 and MYC, providing a rationale for clinical testing of this drug combination in MM patients.
Erratum in    Sci Rep. 2017 Jan 11;7:40457.
The aim of this study is to assess nucleoprotein expression of IKZF1/3 in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM) who received lenalidomide-based therapy and correlated them with their clinical outcomes. A total of 50 patients diagnosed with MM were entered in the study with the median follow-up of 86.4 months. By immunohistochemistry (IHC), IKZF1 and IKZF3 were expressed in 72 and 58% of the cases, respectively. IKZF1 and IKZF3 expressions were associated with longer median progression free survival (P = 0.0029 and P < 0.0001) and overall survival (P = 0.0014 and P < 0.0001). IKZF3 expression also appears predicted a favorable response to the lenalidomide-based therapy.
Genetic alterations of IKZF1 encoding the lymphoid transcription factor IKAROS are a hallmark of high-risk B-progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), such as BCR-ABL1-positive (Ph+) and Ph-like ALL, and are associated with poor outcome even in the era of contemporary chemotherapy incorporating tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Recent experimental mouse modeling of B-progenitor ALL has shown that IKZF1 alterations have multiple effects, including arresting differentiation, skewing lineage of leukemia from myeloid to lymphoid, and, in Ph+ leukemia, conferring resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy without abrogating ABL1 inhibition. These effects are in part mediated by acquisition of an aberrant hematopoietic stem cell-like program accompanied by induction of cell surface expression of stem cell and adhesion molecules that mediate extravascular invasion and residence in the niche and activation of integrin signaling pathways. These effects can be exploited therapeutically using several approaches. IKZF1 alterations also result in upregulation of RXRA that encodes part of the heterodimeric retinoic acid X receptor. Rexinoids, a synthetic class of retinoids that bind specifically to retinoid "X" receptors such as bexarotene potently reverse aberrant adhesion and niche mislocalization in vivo and induce differentiation and cell cycle arrest. Focal adhesion kinase inhibitors block the downstream integrin-mediated signaling, reverse adhesion, and niche mislocalization. Both agents act synergistically with TKIs to prolong survival of Ph+ ALL in mouse and human xenograft model, with long-term remission induced by focal adhesion kinase inhibitors. Therefore, these findings provide important new conceptual insights into the mechanisms by which IKZF1 alterations result in drug resistance and indicate that therapeutic strategies directed against the pathways deregulated by mutation, rather than attempting to restore IKZF1 expression directly, represent promising therapeutic approaches in this disease.
BACKGROUND: Pediatric T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is a highly heterogeneous disease in which the cells share phenotypic characteristics with normal human thymocytes. The Ikaros family of transcription factors includes five members that are required for normal T cell development and are implicated in leukemogenesis. The goal of this work was to correlate the pattern of expression of Ikaros family members with the phenotype of the T-ALL cells.METHODS: We obtained twenty-four samples from pediatric T-ALL patients and used multi-parameter flow cytometry to characterize each sample, comparing the phenotype of the leukemic cells with normal human thymocytes. Then, we defined the expression levels of each Ikaros family member to determine whether the mRNA levels or splicing or protein levels were similar to the normal patterns seen during human T cell development.RESULTS: Multi-parameter analysis of the phenotype of T-ALL cells revealed that each patient's cells were unique and could not be readily correlated with stages of T cell development. Similarly, the pattern of Ikaros expression varied among patients. In most patients, Ikaros mRNA was the dominant family member expressed, but some patients' cells contained mostly Helios, Aiolos, or Eos mRNA. Despite that most patients had elevated mRNA levels of Ikaros family members and unique patterns of mRNA splicing, most patients had significantly reduced protein levels of Ikaros and Aiolos.CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis of the cell phenotype and Ikaros expression levels in T-ALL cells revealed the extent of heterogeneity among patients. While it is rarely possible to trace leukemic cells to their developmental origin, we found distinct patterns of Ikaros family mRNA levels in groups of patients. Further, mRNA and protein levels of Ikaros and Aiolos did not correlate, indicating that mRNA and protein levels are regulated via distinct mechanisms.
Ikaros represents a zinc-finger protein family important for lymphocyte development and certain other physiological processes. The number of family members is large, with alternative splicing producing various additional isoforms from each of the five homologous genes in the family. The functional forms of Ikaros proteins could be even more diverse due to protein-protein interactions readily established between family members. Emerging evidence suggests that targeting Ikaros proteins is feasible and effective in therapeutic applications, although the exact roles of Ikaros proteins remain elusive within the intricate regulatory networks in which they are involved. In this review we collect existing knowledge as to the functions, regulatory pathways, and molecular mechanisms of this family of proteins in an attempt to gain a better understanding through the comparison of activities and interactions among family members.
The IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) gene is frequently altered in adults with B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Although many studies have indicated that IKZF1 alterations might be associated with poor outcomes in adults with ALL, the results remain controversial. A previous meta-analysis demonstrated the negative prognostic significance of IKZF1 deletion in ALL. However, most of the included studies (14 out of 15) were conducted in pediatric patients with ALL, and age was identified as a significant source of heterogeneity. Thus, performing the present meta-analysis provides valuable information to further elucidate the prognostic value of IKZF1 deletion in adults with ALL. Eight studies were identified that had been published prior to August 1, 2016. The studies included a total of 1008 patients. Hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS)/relapse-free survival (RFS)/progression-free survival (PFS)/event-free survival (EFS) were pooled to estimate the prognostic power of IKZF1 deletion. Pooled HRs suggested that IKZF1 deletion had a negative impact on both OS (HR = 1.40, 95% CI 1.13-1.73) and DFS/RFS/PFS/EFS (HR = 1.67, 95% CI 1.28-2.17) in the overall population. Subgroup analyses indicated that IKZF1 deletion could independently predict unfavorable OS (HR = 1.60, 95% CI 1.25-2.06) and DFS/RFS/PFS/EFS (HR = 1.67, 95% CI 1.28-2.17) in BCR-ABL1-negative but not in BCR-ABL1-positive B cell ALL patients. Our meta-analysis suggests that IKZF1 deletion is a poor prognostic factor for adults with B cell ALL and may be more valuable in BCR-ABL1-negative B cell ALL patients.
We have previously described the expression and up-regulation of the C-terminal Binding Protein (CtBP) in response to pituitary hypoxia. This co-repressor interacts with the hematopoietic factor Ikaros to target several components implicated in cellular growth and apoptotic pathways. To identify common transcriptional pituitary targets we performed promoter arrays using Ikaros and CtBP chromatin immunoprecipitated (ChIP) DNA from pituitary AtT20 cells. This approach yielded a finite list of gene targets common to both transcription factors. Of these, the metalloprotease ADAMTS10 emerged as a validated target. We show the ability of Ikaros to bind the ADAMTS10 promoter, influence its transfected activity, and induce endogenous gene expression. ADAMTS10 is expressed in primary pituitary cells and is down-regulated in Ikaros null mice. Further, knockdown of ADAMTS10 in AtT20 cells recapitulates the impact of Ikaros deficiency on POMC/ACTH hormone expression. These results uncover a novel role for the metalloprotease ADAMTS10 in the pituitary. Additionally, they position this metalloprotease as a potential functional integrator of the Ikaros-CtBP chromatin remodeling network.
The Ikaros family of transcription factors is essential for normal T-cell development, but their expression pattern in human thymocytes remains poorly defined. Our goal is to determine how protein levels of Ikaros, Helios and Aiolos change as human thymocytes progress through the positive selection and lineage commitment stages. To accomplish this goal, we used multi-parameter flow cytometry to define the populations in which positive selection and lineage commitment are most likely to occur. After human thymocytes express CD3 and receive positive selection signals, the cells down-regulate expression of CD4 to become transitional single-positive (TSP) CD8+ thymocytes. At this stage, there was a transient increase in the Ikaros, Helios and Aiolos protein levels. After the TSP CD8+ developmental stage, some thymocytes re-express CD4 and become CD3hi double-positive thymocytes before down-regulating CD8 to become mature single-positive CD4+ thymocytes. Except for regulatory T cells, Helios protein levels declined and Aiolos protein levels transiently increased during CD4+ T-cell maturation. For thymocytes progressing toward the CD8+ T-cell lineage, TSP CD8+ thymocytes increase their expression of CD3 and maintain high levels of Aiolos protein as the cells complete their maturation. In summary, we defined the TSP CD8+ developmental stage in human T-cell development and propose that this stage is where CD4/CD8 lineage commitment occurs. Ikaros, Helios and Aiolos each undergo a transient increase in protein levels at the TSP stage before diverging in their expression patterns at later stages.
Vδ2Vγ9 T cells are the dominant γδ T-cell subset in human peripheral blood. Vδ2 T cells recognize pyrophosphate molecules derived from microbes or tumor cells; hence, they play a role in antimicrobial and antitumor immunity. TGF-β, together with IL-15, induces a regulatory phenotype in Vδ2 T cells, characterized by forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3) expression and suppressive activity on CD4 T-cell activation. We performed a genome-wide transcriptome analysis and found that the same conditions (TGF-β plus IL-15) strongly enhanced the expression of additional genes in Vδ2 T cells, including IKAROS family zinc finger 4 (IKZF4; Eos), integrin subunit alpha E (ITGAE; CD103/αEβ7), and IL9 This up-regulation was associated with potent IL-9 production as revealed by flow cytometry and multiplex analysis of cell culture supernatants. In contrast to CD4 and CD8 αβ T cells, γδ T cells did not require IL-4 for induction of intracellular IL-9 expression. Upon antigen restimulation of Vδ2 T cells expanded in vitro in the presence of TGF-β and IL-15, IL-9 was the most abundant among 16 analyzed cytokines and chemokines. IL-9 is a pleiotropic cytokine involved in various (patho)physiological conditions, including allergy and tumor defense, where it can promote antitumor immunity. Given the conspicuous sensitivity of many different tumors to Vδ2 T-cell-mediated killing, the conditions defined here for strong induction of IL-9 might be relevant for the development of Vδ2 T-cell-based immunotherapy.
INTRODUCTION: The monitoring of minimal residual disease (MRD) approach in patients diagnosed with B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) allows an early detection of residual clones inducing relapses and therefore appropriate therapy strategy. The molecular markers may identify and quantify the residual blasts in B-ALL with normal cytology. In this study, we aimed to use combined IKZF1, IGH and IGK immunoglobulin genes for diagnosis and MRD monitoring in B-ALL sample using MLPA, multiplex PCR and real-time quantitative PCR.MATERIAL: We showed that multiplex PCR and MLPA are necessary and complementary to detect IKZF1 deletions.RESULTS: We have identified at the diagnosis clonal IGH rearrangement (VH3-JH5) and IKZF1 deletion (Δ4-7), which we have used it for MRD evaluation after induction chemotherapy. Despite the absence of chromosome abnormality, the patient may be classified in high-risk group with a relapse rate of residual blasts>10-4 and sensitivity up to 10-5. This molecular approach enabled the patient's stratification, which was overlooked by classical methods.CONCLUSION: The combined IKZF1 and immunoglobulin genes will be used as appropriate molecular tools for diagnosis and MRD assessment of B-lineage leukemias and introduced as a routine tests in Tunisian clinical laboratories. They will be useful to stratify patients into risk groups leading to better treatment strategy.
DOI: 10.1016/j.jid.2016.08.016PMCID: PMC5358509PMID: 27592800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
BACKGROUND: Casein kinase II (CK2) is a pro-oncogenic protein, which is emerging as a promising therapeutic target in cancer. Recent studies have revealed an important role for CK2 in tumorigenesis. High levels of CK2 are noted in many malignancies including leukemia. Use of CK2 inhibitors in various malignancies including breast, prostate, and lung cancer are being tested. Although many CK2 inhibitors exist, only a few have emerged as selective inhibitors that are potent and effective. CX-4945 is a selective, orallybioavailable small molecule inhibitor, which has shown encouraging results in pre-clinical models of leukemia.METHODS: In this review we will elaborate on the structure and physiological function of the CK2 protein as well as its role in cancer. We will review, in depth, the role of CK2 in leukemia and its mechanisms of tumorigenesis via phosphorylation of the tumor suppressor protein Ikaros. We will discuss both the importance of Ikaros in leukemia suppression and the restoration of Ikaros' tumor suppressor function after CK2 inhibition by CX-4945 (a CK2-specific inhibitor).RESULTS: CK2 is an oncogene that is overexpressed in hematological malignancies. In high risk Pre-B ALL, CK2 phosphorylates Ikaros tumor suppressor and promotes leukemogenesis. Inhibition of CK2 using CX4945 restores Ikaros function and leads to anti leukemic effects in vitro and in pre-clinical leukemia models.CONCLUSION: CK2 is an attractive target in treatment of various cancers. Currently only a few specific CK2 inhibitors are available. Preclinical studies using CK2 inhibitor, CX4945 in high risk pediatric leukemias have shown promising results and warrants further testing in other types of leukemia.
Ikaros isoform 6 (Ik6) is associated with a poor prognosis for children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Our previous study demonstrated that overexpression of Ik6 enhances proliferation and chemoresistance of leukemia cells, with a possible underlying mechanism that involves antiapoptosis. In the present study, we investigated whether Ik6 protects against apoptosis by regulating the Akt-FoxO1 pathway. Bone marrow samples from children with ALL were collected and evaluated. In Ik6+ patients, the Akt-FoxO1 pathway was activated such that expression of phosphorylated Akt and FoxO1 was significantly increased, but that of Bim and p27 decreased. In vitro experiments in this study were performed by using human ALL Nalm-6 cells that were stably transfected with Ik6 (Nalm-6/Ik6) or Sup-B15 and Ik6 shRNA (Sup-B15/Ik6 shRNA). Upon treatment with daunorubicin, Nalm-6/Ik6 cells exhibited a statistically significant reduction in apoptosis, with increased expression of p-Akt and p-FoxO1. In contrast, an increase in apoptosis with decreased expression of p-Akt and p-FoxO1 was observed in Sup-B15/Ik6 shRNA cells. This protection was dependent on activation of caspase-3 cleavage. By using an activator and an inhibitor of Akt or FoxO1, we demonstrated that Akt or FoxO1 activation had no effect on Ik6 expression. In conclusion, Ik6, the upstream factor of Akt-FoxO1 pathway, can protect ALL cells against daunorubicin-induced apoptosis and can potentially be explored as a therapeutic target in the treatment of patients with ALL.
A Thai mother and her two daughters were affected with tricho-rhino-phalangeal syndrome type I. The daughters had 15 and 18 supernumerary teeth, respectively. The mother had normal dentition. Mutation analysis of TRPS1 showed a novel heterozygous c.3809_3811delACTinsCATGTTGTG mutation in all. This mutation is predicted to cause amino acid changes in the Ikaros-like zinc finger domain near the C-terminal end of TRPS1, which is important for repressive protein function. The results of our study and the comprehensive review of the literature show that pathways of forming supernumerary teeth appear to involve APC and RUNX2, the genes responsible for familial adenomatous polyposis syndrome and cleidocranial dysplasia, respectively. The final pathway resulting in supernumerary teeth seems to involve Wnt, a morphogen active during many stages of development. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
OBJECTIVES: Polymorphisms of IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) have been found to be associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) by genome-wide association studies (GWAS). The aim of the current study was to investigate the association between IKZF1 functional variants and lupus nephritis (LN) in a northern Han Chinese population and analyse their relationship with clinical and pathological phenotypes in LN.METHOD: The association between IKZF1 functional variants and LN was analysed for the lead variant rs1456896 with both GWAS and expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) top hits in 500 LN patients and 500 healthy controls. Replication was conducted in an independent cohort comprising 798 LN patients and 704 healthy controls. Using the ENCODE (Encyclopedia of DNA Elements) databases, functional annotations and differential gene expression data were evaluated.RESULTS: A significant association between the single nuclear polymorphism (SNP) rs1456896 and susceptibility to LN was observed in the two different cohorts (p = 9.32 × 10-3 and p = 3.00 × 10-2) and reinforced in combination (p = 1.36 × 10-3). In silico analysis indicates that rs1456896 is a regulatory variant and lower mRNA expressions of IKZF1 were observed in both peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and renal biopsies from SLE patients compared to normal controls. Although patients with the protective genotype AA of rs1456896 seemed to have more pronounced clinical manifestations and a lower ratio of histological classes III and IV, no significant associations between rs1456896 genotypes and sub-phenotypes of LN were detected.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the rs1456896 A allele is associated with protective susceptibility to LN. However, this association did not seem to be implicated in the disease and histopathological severity of LN in the current population.
The ability to accurately predict the DNA targets and interacting cofactors of transcriptional regulators from genome-wide data can significantly advance our understanding of gene regulatory networks. NKX2-5 is a homeodomain transcription factor that sits high in the cardiac gene regulatory network and is essential for normal heart development. We previously identified genomic targets for NKX2-5 in mouse HL-1 atrial cardiomyocytes using DNA-adenine methyltransferase identification (DamID). Here, we apply machine learning algorithms and propose a knowledge-based feature selection method for predicting NKX2-5 protein : protein interactions based on motif grammar in genome-wide DNA-binding data. We assessed model performance using leave-one-out cross-validation and a completely independent DamID experiment performed with replicates. In addition to identifying previously described NKX2-5-interacting proteins, including GATA, HAND and TBX family members, a number of novel interactors were identified, with direct protein : protein interactions between NKX2-5 and retinoid X receptor (RXR), paired-related homeobox (PRRX) and Ikaros zinc fingers (IKZF) validated using the yeast two-hybrid assay. We also found that the interaction of RXRα with NKX2-5 mutations found in congenital heart disease (Q187H, R189G and R190H) was altered. These findings highlight an intuitive approach to accessing protein-protein interaction information of transcription factors in DNA-binding experiments.
The molecular defects which lead to multistep incidences of human T-cell leukemia have yet to be identified. The DNA-binding protein Helios (known as IKZF2), a member of the Ikaros family of Krüppel-like zinc-finger proteins, functions pivotally in T-cell differentiation and activation. In this study, we identify three novel short Helios splice variants which are T-cell leukemic specific, and demonstrate their dominant-negative function. We then test the cellular localization of distinct Helios isoforms, as well as their capability to form heterodimer with Ikaros, and the association with complexes comprising histone deacetylase (HDAC). In addition, the ectopic expression of T-cell leukemic Helios isoforms interferes with T-cell proliferation and apoptosis. The gene expression profiling and pathway analysis indicated the enrichment of signaling pathways essential for gene expression, translation, cell cycle checkpoint, and response to DNA damage stimulus. These data indicate the molecular function of Helios to be involved in the leukemogenesis and phenotype of T-cell leukemia, and also reveal Helios deregulation as a novel marker for T-cell leukemia.
The IKZF1 gene encodes the Ikaros protein, a zinc finger transcriptional factor that acts as a master regulator of hematopoiesis and a tumor suppressor in leukemia. Impaired activity of Ikaros is associated with the development of high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with a poor prognosis. The molecular mechanisms that regulate Ikaros' function as a tumor suppressor and regulator of cellular proliferation are not well understood. We demonstrated that Ikaros is a substrate for Casein Kinase II (CK2), an oncogenic kinase that is overexpressed in ALL. Phosphorylation of Ikaros by CK2 impairs Ikaros' DNA-binding ability, as well as Ikaros' ability to regulate gene expression and function as a tumor suppressor in leukemia. Targeting CK2 with specific inhibitors restores Ikaros' function as a transcriptional regulator and tumor suppressor resulting in a therapeutic, anti-leukemia effect in a preclinical model of ALL. Here, we review the genes and pathways that are regulated by Ikaros and the molecular mechanisms through which Ikaros and CK2 regulate cellular proliferation in leukemia.
Recent comprehensive genetic studies revealed numerous genetic aberrations underlying a group of high-risk leukemias that share a specific activated kinase gene expression pattern. These ALLs were first recognized by the expression profile similar to that of Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL and currently can be sub-classified by the main aberrantly activated kinase in the leukemic cells. We herein review the biological mechanisms and diagnostic and clinical challenges presented by these leukemias.
IKAROS is required for the differentiation of highly proliferative pre-B-cell precursors, and loss of IKAROS function indicates poor prognosis in precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Here we show that IKAROS regulates this developmental stage by positive and negative regulation of superenhancers with distinct lineage affiliations. IKAROS defines superenhancers at pre-B-cell differentiation genes together with B-cell master regulators such as PAX5, EBF1, and IRF4 but is required for a highly permissive chromatin environment, a function that cannot be compensated for by the other transcription factors. IKAROS is also highly enriched at inactive enhancers of genes normally expressed in stem-epithelial cells. Upon IKAROS loss, expression of pre-B-cell differentiation genes is attenuated, while a group of extralineage transcription factors that are directly repressed by IKAROS and depend on EBF1 relocalization at their enhancers for expression is induced. LHX2, LMO2, and TEAD-YAP1, normally kept separate from native B-cell transcription regulators by IKAROS, now cooperate directly with them in a de novo superenhancer network with its own feed-forward transcriptional reinforcement. Induction of de novo superenhancers antagonizes Polycomb repression and superimposes aberrant stem-epithelial cell properties in a B-cell precursor. This dual mechanism of IKAROS regulation promotes differentiation while safeguarding against a hybrid stem-epithelial-B-cell phenotype that underlies high-risk B-ALL.
BACKGROUND: Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a heterogeneous genetic disease and its etiology remains poorly understood. Recent genome wide association and replication studies have highlighted specic polymorphisms contributing to childhood ALL predispositions mostly in European populations. It is unclear if these observations generalize to other populations with a lower incidence of ALL. The current case-control study evaluated variants in ARID5B (rs7089424, rs10821936), IKZF1 (rs4132601) and CEBPE (rs2239633) genes, which appear most significantly associated with risk of developing childhood B-lineage ALL.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using TaqMan assays, genotyping was conducted for 162 de novo B-lineage ALL cases and 150 unrelated healthy controls in India. Appropriate statistical methods were applied.RESULTS: Genotypic and allelic frequencies differed significantly between cases and controls at IKZF1-rs4132601 (p=0.039, p=0.015) and ARID5B-rs10821936 (p=0.028, p=0.026). Both rs10821936 (p=0.019; OR 0.67; 95% CI=0.47-0.94) and rs4132601 (p=0.018; OR 0.67; 95%CI 0.48-0.94) were associated with reduced disease risk. Moreover, gender- analysis revealed male-specific risk associations for rs10821936 (p=0.041 CT+CC) and rs4132601 (p=0.005 G allele). Further, ARID5B-rs7089424 and CEBPE-rs2239633 showed a trend towards decreased disease risk but without significance (p=0.073; p=0.73).CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide the rst evidence that SNPs ARID5B- rs10821936 and IKZF1-rs4132601 are associated with decreased B-lineage ALL susceptibility in Indian children. Understanding the effects of these variants in different ethnic groups is crucial as they may confer different risk of ALL within different populations.
Transcription factors of the nuclear factor of activated T cell (NFAT) family are essential for antigen-specific T cell activation and differentiation. Their cooperative DNA binding with other transcription factors, such as AP1 proteins (FOS, JUN, and JUNB), FOXP3, IRFs, and EGR1, dictates the gene regulatory action of NFATs. To identify as yet unknown interaction partners of NFAT, we purified biotin-tagged NFATc1/αA, NFATc1/βC, and NFATc2/C protein complexes and analyzed their components by stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture-based mass spectrometry. We revealed more than 170 NFAT-associated proteins, half of which are involved in transcriptional regulation. Among them are many hitherto unknown interaction partners of NFATc1 and NFATc2 in T cells, such as Raptor, CHEK1, CREB1, RUNX1, SATB1, Ikaros, and Helios. The association of NFATc2 with several other transcription factors is DNA-dependent, indicating cooperative DNA binding. Moreover, our computational analysis discovered that binding motifs for RUNX and CREB1 are found preferentially in the direct vicinity of NFAT-binding motifs and in a distinct orientation to them. Furthermore, we provide evidence that mTOR and CHEK1 kinase activity influence NFAT's transcriptional potency. Finally, our dataset of NFAT-associated proteins provides a good basis to further study NFAT's diverse functions and how these are modulated due to the interplay of multiple interaction partners.
Young children (<5 years of age but especially those <2-year old) exhibit high rates of morbidity and frequently require hospitalizations due to complications from respiratory viral infections. This is also a population for which we understand less about how their unique level of immunological maturation affects their antiviral immune responses. However, we do know from prior studies that their T cells appear to apoptose in the lungs owing to limited interferon (IFN)γ autocrine signaling during infection. To begin to further understand additional limits, we utilized an infant/toddler murine model infected with influenza virus with an adult comparator. In our model, young mice exhibited lower interleukin (IL)-10+IFNγ+ co-producing CD4 T cells infiltrating the lungs that paralleled with a failed switch from an innate to adaptive immune response at the mid infection stage. Specifically, limited co-IL-10 production correlated with a lack of influenza-specific antibodies and subsequent complement receptor signaling (complement receptor type-1 related gene Y (CCRY)/p65) to the lung infiltrating CD4 T cells therefore limiting their IKAROs upregulation. Thus, limited IL-10 production appeared to diminish signaling to lung macrophages to stop accumulating late into infection. Taken together, our results suggest a novel role for complement mediated signaling in CD4 T cells with respect to IL-10 co-production. Furthermore, a subsequent failure to shift from the unfocused innate immune response to the specific adaptive responses may be a principle cause in the enhanced morbidity common in respiratory viral infection of young children.
BACKGROUND: In B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, one of the most frequent cytogenetic alterations is the presence of the Philadelphia chromosome. Recently, newly identified genetic alterations have been studied, among them the IKZF1 deletion. IKZF1 encodes IKAROS, a zinc finger protein that plays an important role in hematopoiesis involving the regulation process of adhesion, cellular migration, and as a tumor suppressor.OBJECTIVE: We aimed to study the impact of IKAROS deletion in the evolution and prognosis of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.MATERIALS AND METHODS: At a single center we prospectively studied patients diagnosed with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and screened for IKZF1 deletion using the multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification method. We did a descriptive analysis of patients positive for the IKZF1 deletion to determine its impact on the evolution of the disease and survival rate.RESULTS: Between 2010 and 2015, 16 Mexican mestizo patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia were prospectively screened for IKZF1 deletion; seven (43%) were positive and were included for further analysis. The age range of patients was 13-60 years; six were males and one female. All cases had type B acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Of the seven patients, two died, three were lost to follow-up, and two continue in complete remission with treatment. Results are worse than those in a group of patients with non-mutated IKAROS B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia previously studied in our center.CONCLUSIONS: Although this is a small sample, the presence of IKAROS deletion in acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients could represent a poor-prognosis marker and was probably related to therapy failure. It is also possible that this variant of leukemia may be more prevalent in Mexico. More studies are needed to define the role of IKZF1 deletion in acute lymphoblastic leukemia and the real prevalence of the disease in different populations.
Aberrant stem cell-like gene regulatory networks are a feature of leukaemogenesis. The ETS-related gene (ERG), an important regulator of normal haematopoiesis, is also highly expressed in T-ALL and acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). However, the transcriptional regulation of ERG in leukaemic cells remains poorly understood. In order to discover transcriptional regulators of ERG, we employed a quantitative mass spectrometry-based method to identify factors binding the 321 bp ERG +85 stem cell enhancer region in MOLT-4 T-ALL and KG-1 AML cells. Using this approach, we identified a number of known binders of the +85 enhancer in leukaemic cells along with previously unknown binders, including ETV6 and IKZF1. We confirmed that ETV6 and IKZF1 were also bound at the +85 enhancer in both leukaemic cells and in healthy human CD34+ haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Knockdown experiments confirmed that ETV6 and IKZF1 are transcriptional regulators not just of ERG, but also of a number of genes regulated by a densely interconnected network of seven transcription factors. At last, we show that ETV6 and IKZF1 expression levels are positively correlated with expression of a number of heptad genes in AML and high expression of all nine genes confers poorer overall prognosis.
Ikaros and Foxp1 are transcription factors that play key roles in normal lymphopoiesis and lymphoid malignancies. We describe a novel physical and functional interaction between the proteins, which requires the central zinc finger domain of Ikaros. The Ikaros-Foxp1 interaction is abolished by deletion of this region, which corresponds to the IK6 isoform that is commonly associated with high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We also identify the Gpr132 gene, which encodes the orphan G protein-coupled receptor G2A, as a novel target for Foxp1. Increased expression of Foxp1 enhanced Gpr132 transcription and caused cell cycle changes, including G2 arrest. Co-expression of wild-type Ikaros, but not IK6, displaced Foxp1 binding from the Gpr132 gene, reversed the increase in Gpr132 expression and inhibited G2 arrest. Analysis of primary ALL samples revealed a significant increase in GPR132 expression in IKZF1-deleted BCR-ABL negative patients, suggesting that levels of wild-type Ikaros may influence the regulation of G2A in B-ALL. Our results reveal a novel effect of Ikaros haploinsufficiency on Foxp1 functioning, and identify G2A as a potential modulator of the cell cycle in Ikaros-deleted B-ALL.
BACKGROUND: The motif ACTAYRNNNCCCR (Y being C or T, R being A or G, and N any nucleotide), called M4, was discovered as a putative cis-regulatory element, present 520 times in human promoter regions. Of these, 317 (61 %) are conserved within promoter sequences of four related organisms: human, mouse, rat, and dog. Recent genome-wide studies have described M4 as a transcription factor (TF) binding site for THAP11 that does often overlap with SBS (STAF Binding Site) a second core-promoter associated TF binding module, which associates with the TFs STAF/ZNF143 and RBP-J. Human M4-promoter genes show enhanced expression in cells of hematopoietic origin, especially in B lymphoblasts and peripheral blood B and T cells. Apart from RBP-J that is well known to recruit ICN1 (the intracellular transcriptional mediator of activated Notch1), the functional role of the hyperconserved M4 cis-element in the context of transcriptional regulation of M4-genes in lymphoid cells remains poorly defined.RESULTS: Here, we present a quantitative proteomic investigation of the M4 motif TF binding landscape in lymphoid cell lines that is further validated by ChIP experiments and functional assays. Our data strongly suggest that THAP11 and Ikaros interact directly, while NFKB1 (NF-kappa B p50) and HCF-1 are binding indirectly to M4-promoters in vitro and in living cells. Further analysis reveals that M4 is a bipartite composite cis-element, which is recognized by THAP11 via binding to the ACTAYR sequence module, thereby promoting ternary complex formation with HCF-1. Similarly, Ikaros binds to the CCCR module of the M4 motif and this interaction is crucial for recruiting NFKB1 to M4 harboring genes. Transient reporter assays in HEK293 and loss-of-function experiments in Molt4 T cells unequivocally demonstrate that binding of Ikaros and/or THAP11 to M4 bearing promoters is functionally important and therefore biologically relevant. Accordingly, this study validates our SILAC-based DNA protein interaction screening methodology as a valuable surrogate for a bona fide reverse ChIP technology.CONCLUSIONS: The M4 motif (ACTAYRNNNCCCR) is a functional regulatory bipartite cis-element, which engages a THAP11/HCF-1 complex via binding to the ACTAYR module, while the CCCRRNRNRC subsequence part constitutes a binding platform for Ikaros and NFKB1.
PURPOSE: Helios belongs to Ikaros family, which plays an important role in the cell-fate decision and control cell proliferation; abnormal expressions in leukemia are associated with poor prognosis. In this study, we investigated the Helios expression between Helicobacter pylori infection and prognosis in gastric cancer patients.METHODS: A total of 67 gastric cancer patients who received partial or full gastrectomies were enrolled. Helios expression by immunohistochemistry and mRNA was investigated with the clinical stage, Helicobacter pylori infection, CD4 expression, FoxP3 expression and prognosis.RESULTS: From the immunohistochemistry stain, we found that the Helios was expressed in both cancer cell and tumor-infiltrated lymphocytes. The high expression of Helios in gastric tumor cells had a better median overall survival rate in gastric cancer patients (50.7 ± 3.2 vs. 34.1 ± 4.9 months; P = 0.015), Helicobacter pylori-infected patients (51.1 ± 3.5 vs. 30.4 ± 5.1 months; P = 0.007) and advanced gastric cancer patients (42.1 ± 5.5 vs. 23.2 ± 4.8 months; P = 0.043). From multivariate analysis, the Helios expression in gastric tumor cells was an independent factor to predict better survival in all gastric cancers (HR = 2.78; 95 % confidence interval [CI], 1.09-7.09; P = 0.032) and advanced gastric cancer patients (HR = 2.85; 95 % confidence interval [CI], 1.00-8.13; P = 0.03).CONCLUSIONS: Higher expression of Helios in gastric tumor cells predicts better survival in gastric cancer patients, especially for Helicobacter pylori-infected and advanced-stage gastric cancer patients.
OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to investigate the expression of regulatory T cells in primary Sjögren's Syndrome (pSS) and to evaluate the clinical role of CD4 + Helios+ FoxP3+ cells in pSS patients.METHODS: CD4 + FoxP3+ T cells in the peripheral blood of 39 pSS patients and 30 healthy controls were measured by flow cytometry and CD25 and Helios expression were also analyzed. The repression ability of CD4 + CD25hi cells was tested in vitro. Clinical information of pSS patients was retrospectively collected and their correlations with circulating Treg cells were analyzed. Cytokine levels in plasma were measured by ELISA and correlations with Helios+ FoxP3+ cells were also detected.RESULTS: Circulating FoxP3+ and Helios+ FoxP3+ cells were elevated in pSS patients compared with controls. The suppression function of CD4 + CD25hi cells is not different between two groups. There are inverse correlations between Helios+ FoxP3+ percentage and ESR, IgG, IgM and ESSDAI. Anti-SSB- patients possess higher level of Helios+ FoxP3+ cells than anti-SSB+ patients. IL-6, IFNγ and IFNα levels were increased in pSS plasma and there were positive correlations between the levels of IFNγ/IFNα and percentage of Helios+ FoxP3+ cells.CONCLUSION: Circulating Helios + FoxP3+ cells were elevated in pSS patients and may contribute to suppressing autoimmunity in pSS patients.
While the majority of children and adolescents with newly diagnosed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) will be cured, as many as 20 % of patients will experience relapse. On current treatment regimens, the intensity of upfront treatment is stratified based upon prognostic factors with the aim of improving cure rates (for those at the highest risk of relapse) and minimizing treatment-related morbidity (for lower-risk patients). Here we review advances in the understanding of prognostic factors and their application. We also highlight novel treatment approaches aimed at improving outcomes in childhood ALL.
Thalidomide was sold in the 1950s as a sedative and was also used by pregnant women to treat morning sickness. It became notorious for causing severe birth defects and was removed from the market. More than four decades later, thalidomide had a renaissance in the treatment of cancer. Thalidomide and its more potent analogs, lenalidomide and pomalidomide, are nowadays approved treatments for multiple myeloma and myelodysplastic syndrome with deletion of chromosome 5q. In addition, thalidomide and its analogs inhibit release of tumor necrosis factor-α and increase interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-γ release from T cells. The underlying molecular mechanisms for these pleiotropic effects remained obscure until the identification of the cereblon (CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase as the primary target of thalidomide and its analogs in 2010. Binding of thalidomide or lenalidomide increases the affinity of CRBN to the transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3 and casein kinase 1α (CK1α). Ubiquitination and degradation of these neo-substrates results in IL-2 release and growth arrest of multiple myeloma and MDS cells. The discovery of this previously undescribed mechanism for an approved drug provides a proof-of-concept for the development of new therapeutics that exploit ubiquitin ligases for specific degradation of disease-associated proteins.
Thalidomide was first developed as a sedative around 60 years ago, but exhibited teratogenicity, leading to serious defects such as limb deformities. Nevertheless, thalidomide is now recognized as a therapeutic drug for the treatment of Hansen's disease and myeloma. Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), a new class of anti-cancer drug derived from thalidomide, have also been developed and exert potent anti-cancer effects. Although the molecular mechanism of thalidomide and IMiDs remained unclear for a long time, cereblon, a substrate receptor of the CRL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase was identified as a primary direct target by a new affinity technique. A growing body of evidence suggests that the effect of IMiDs on myeloma and other cancer cells is mediated by CRBN. Each IMiD binds to CRBN and alters the substrate specificity of the CRBN E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, resulting in breakdown of intrinsic downstream proteins such as Ikaros and Aiolos. Here we give an overview of the current understanding of mechanism of action of IMiDs via CRBN and prospects for the development of new drugs that degrade protein of interest.
Author information:(1)Key Laboratory of Public Health Safety, Ministry of Education-Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China; Institute of Immunological Prevention, Ningbo Prefecture Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Ningbo 315010, China.(2)Key Laboratory of Public Health Safety, Ministry of Education-Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
The correlation between Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and dominant-negative Ikaros isoform 6 (IK6) is unclear. Firstly, we detected that IK6 existed in 20 of 42 (47.6%) adult BCR-ABL1-positive B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCR-ABL1-positive B-ALL) by using reverse transcribed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and nucleotide sequencing. IK6-positive patients had an unfavorable outcome compared with IK6-negative ones. Further study showed that the level of HO-1 expression was higher in IK6-positive patients' samples than that in IK6-negative ones. And there was a strong correlation between the expression of IK6 and HO-1. The growth of primary CD34+ leukemic cells derived from our IK6-positive patients' pool was prohibited by silencing HO-1, further promoting their apoptosis. Furthermore, primary CD34+ leukemic cells derived from IK6-positive patients shown poor responses to imatinib in comparison with wild-type (IK1) patients, suggesting that the expression of IK6 resisted to imatinib in adult BCR-ABL1-positive B-ALL. Importantly, inhibition of HO-1 also increased their sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Finally, we found that IK6 activated downstream STAT5, and HO-1 was one of the downstream target genes of STAT5. In conclusion, HO-1 is an essential survival factor in BCR-ABL1-positive B-ALL with IK6, and targeting HO-1 can attenuate the negative impact of IK6.
Ikaros is an important transcription factor involved in the development and differentiation of hematopoietic cells. However, its role in the treatment of hematopoietic malignancies such as leukemia is less well understood. In the present study, it was observed by data mining of the Oncomine database that high expression levels of full-length Ikaros (IK1) is correlated with increased sensitivity of cancer cells to treatments with chemotherapeutic drugs, including doxorubicin (DOX). To examine the functional significance of this observation, the expression of IK1 in a leukemia cell line was altered, and the response of leukemic cells to DOX treatment was analyzed. It was observed that overexpression of IK1 could enhance DOX-induced apoptosis, while knockdown of IK1 attenuated DOX-induced apoptosis in leukemic cells. Further experiments demonstrated that IK1 sensitized leukemic cells to DOX-induced apoptosis, probably through upregulation of caspase-9. These data suggest that high expression levels of IK1 may be a potential biomarker to predict responses of leukemia patients to treatment with chemotherapy.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0157767.].
Group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s) expressing the transcription factor (TF) RORγt are important for the defense and homeostasis of host intestinal tissues. The zinc finger TF Ikaros, encoded by Ikzf1, is essential for the development of RORγt(+) fetal lymphoid tissue inducer (LTi) cells and lymphoid organogenesis, but its role in postnatal ILC3s is unknown. Here, we show that small-intestinal ILC3s had lower Ikaros expression than ILC precursors and other ILC subsets. Ikaros inhibited ILC3s in a cell-intrinsic manner through zinc-finger-dependent inhibition of transcriptional activity of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, a key regulator of ILC3 maintenance and function. Ablation of Ikzf1 in RORγt(+) ILC3s resulted in increased expansion and cytokine production of intestinal ILC3s and protection against infection and colitis. Therefore, in contrast to being required for LTi development, Ikaros inhibits postnatal ILC3 development and function to regulate gut immune responses at steady state and in disease.
IKZF1 deletion (ΔIKZF1) is an important predictor of relapse in childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Because of its clinical importance, we previously mapped breakpoints of intragenic deletions and developed a multiplex PCR assay to detect recurrent intragenic ΔIKZF1. Since the multiplex PCR was not able to detect complete deletions (IKZF1 Δ1-8), which account for ~30% of all ΔIKZF1, we aimed at investigating the genomic scenery of IKZF1 Δ1-8. Six samples of cases with IKZF1 Δ1-8 were analyzed by microarray assay, which identified monosomy 7, isochromosome 7q, and large interstitial deletions presenting breakpoints within COBL gene. Then, we established a multiplex ligation-probe amplification (MLPA) assay and screened copy number alterations within chromosome 7 in 43 diagnostic samples with IKZF1 Δ1-8. Our results revealed that monosomy and large interstitial deletions within chromosome 7 are the main causes of IKZF1 Δ1-8. Detailed analysis using long distance inverse PCR showed that six patients (16%) had large interstitial deletions starting within intronic regions of COBL at diagnosis, which is ~611 Kb downstream of IKZF1, suggesting that COBL is a hotspot for ΔIKZF1. We also investigated a series of 25 intragenic deletions (Δ2-8, Δ3-8 or Δ4-8) and 24 relapsed samples, and found one IKZF1-COBL tail-to-tail fusion, thus supporting that COBL is a novel hotspot for ΔIKZF1. Finally, using RIC score methodology, we show that breakpoint sequences of IKZF1 Δ1-8 are not analog to RAG-recognition sites, suggesting a different mechanism of error promotion than that suggested for intragenic ΔIKZF1.
Overexpression of cytokine receptor-like factor 2 (CRLF2) due to chromosomal rearrangement has been observed in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and reported to contribute to oncogenesis and unfavorable outcome in ALL. We studied B-ALL and T-ALL patients without CRLF2 rearrangement and observed that CRLF2 is significantly increased in a subset of these patients. Our study shows that high CRLF2expression correlates with high-risk ALL markers, as well as poor survival. We found that the IKZF1-encoded protein, Ikaros, directly binds to the CRLF2 promoter and regulates CRLF2 expression in leukemia cells. CK2 inhibitor, which can increase Ikaros activity, significantly increases Ikaros binding in ALL cells and suppresses CRLF2 expression in an Ikaros-dependent manner. CRLF2 expression is significantly higher in patients with IKZF1 deletion as compared to patients without IKZF1 deletion. Treatment with CK2 inhibitor also results in an increase in IKZF1 binding to the CRLF2 promoter and suppression of CRLF2 expression in primary ALL cells. We further observed that CK2 inhibitor induces increased H3K9me3 histone modifications in the CRLF2 promoter in ALL cell lines and primary cells. Taken together, our results demonstrate that high expression of CRLF2 correlates with high-risk ALL and short survival in patients without CRLF2 rearrangement. Our results are the first to demonstrate that the IKZF1-encoded Ikaros protein directly suppresses CRLF2 expression through enrichment of H3K9me3 in its promoter region. Our data also suggest that high CRLF2 expression works with the IKZF1 deletion to drive oncogenesis of ALL and has significance in an integrated prognostic model for adult high-risk ALL.
Comment in    Cancer Cell. 2016 Jul 11;30(1):11-3.
Immunomodulatory drugs bind to cereblon (CRBN) to confer differentiated substrate specificity on the CRL4(CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase. Here we report the identification of a new cereblon modulator, CC-885, with potent anti-tumour activity. The anti-tumour activity of CC-885 is mediated through the cereblon-dependent ubiquitination and degradation of the translation termination factor GSPT1. Patient-derived acute myeloid leukaemia tumour cells exhibit high sensitivity to CC-885, indicating the clinical potential of this mechanism. Crystallographic studies of the CRBN-DDB1-CC-885-GSPT1 complex reveal that GSPT1 binds to cereblon through a surface turn containing a glycine residue at a key position, interacting with both CC-885 and a 'hotspot' on the cereblon surface. Although GSPT1 possesses no obvious structural, sequence or functional homology to previously known cereblon substrates, mutational analysis and modelling indicate that the cereblon substrate Ikaros uses a similar structural feature to bind cereblon, suggesting a common motif for substrate recruitment. These findings define a structural degron underlying cereblon 'neosubstrate' selectivity, and identify an anti-tumour target rendered druggable by cereblon modulation.
Acute rejection is commonly encountered for long-term survival in liver transplant (LT) recipients and may impact their long-term survival if rejection is severe or recurrent. The aim of this study is to examine the therapeutic potential of transforming growth factor (TGF-β)-overexpressing mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in inducing a local immunosuppression in liver grafts after transplantation. MSCs were transduced with a lentiviral vector expressing the human TGF-β1 gene; TGF-β1-overexpressing MSCs (designated as TGF/MSCs) were then transfused into the liver grafts via the portal vein of a rat LT model of acute rejection. Rejection severity was assessed by clinical and histologic analysis. The immunity suppression effects and mechanism of TGF/MSCs were tested, focusing on their ability to induce generation of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the liver grafts. Our findings demonstrate that transfusion of TGF/MSCs prevented rejection, reduced mortality, and improved survival of rats after LT. The therapeutic effects were associated with the immunosuppressive effects of MSCs and TGF-β1. Their reciprocal effects on Tregs induction and function resulted in more CD4 + Foxp3 + Helios- induced Tregs, fewer Th17 cells, and improved immunosuppressive effects in local liver grafts. Thus, TGF/MSCs can induce a local immunosuppressive effect in liver grafts after transplantation. The immunomodulatory activity of TGF-β1 modified MSCs may be a gateway to new therapeutic approaches to prevent organ rejection in clinical transplantation. Stem Cells 2016;34:2681-2692.
The gene coding cereblon (CRBN) was originally identified in genetic linkage analysis of mild autosomal recessive nonsyndromic intellectual disability. CRBN has broad localization in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. However, the significance of nuclear CRBN remains unknown. In the present study, we aimed to elucidate the role of CRBN in the nucleus. First, we generated a series of CRBN deletion mutants and determined the regions responsible for the nuclear localization. Only CRBN protein lacking the N-terminal region was localized outside of the nucleus, suggesting that the N-terminal region is important for its nuclear localization. CRBN was also identified as a thalidomide-binding protein and component of the cullin-4-containing E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Thalidomide has been reported to be involved in the regulation of the transcription factor Ikaros by CRBN-mediated degradation. To investigate the nuclear functions of CRBN, we performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments and evaluated the binding of CRBN to Ikaros. As a result, we found that CRBN was associated with Ikaros protein, and the N-terminal region of CRBN was required for Ikaros binding. In luciferase reporter gene experiments, CRBN modulated transcriptional activity of Ikaros. Furthermore, we found that CRBN modulated Ikaros-mediated transcriptional repression of the proenkephalin gene by binding to its promoter region. These results suggest that CRBN binds to Ikaros via its N-terminal region and regulates transcriptional activities of Ikaros and its downstream target, enkephalin.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) remains the leading cause of cancer-related death in children and young adults. Compared to ALL in children, adult ALL has a much lower cure rate. Therefore, it is important to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying high-risk ALL and to develop therapeutic strategies that specifically target genes or pathways in ALL. Here, we explored the IL7R and SH2B3 expression in adult ALL and found that IL7R is significantly higher and Sh2B3 lower expressed in B-ALL compared to normal bone marrow control, and the IL7RhighSH2B3low is associated with high-risk factors, and with high relapse rate and low disease-free survival rate in the patients. We also found that Ikaros deletion was associated with the IL7RhighSH2B3low expression pattern and Ikaros directly binds the IL7R and SH2B3 promoter, and suppresses IL7R and promotes SH2B3 expression. On the other hand, casein kinase inhibitor, which increases Ikaros function, inhibits IL7R and stimulates SH2B3 expression in an Ikaros dependent manner. Our data indicate that IL7RhighSH2B3low expression distinguishes a novel subset of high-risk B-ALL associated with Ikaros dysfunction, and also suggest the therapeutic potential for treatment that combines casein kinase inhibitor, as an Ikaros activator, with drugs that target the IL7R signaling pathway.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2016;11(7):e0160134.
PURPOSE: Lenalidomide, thalidomide, and pomalidomide (LTP) are immunomodulatory agents approved for use in multiple myeloma, but in some settings, especially with alkylating agents, an increase in Hodgkin lymphoma and other secondary primary malignancies (SPM) has been noted. Some of these malignancies have been linked to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), raising the possibility that immunomodulatory drugs disrupt latent EBV infection.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We studied the ability of LTP to reactivate latently infected EBV-positive cell lines in vitro and in vivo, and evaluated the EBV viral load in archived serum samples from patients who received a lenalidomide, thalidomide, and dexamethasone (LTD) combination.RESULTS: Treatment of EBV-infected B-cell lines with LTP at physiologically relevant concentrations induced the immediate early gene BZLF1, the early gene BMRF1, and the late proteins VCA and BCFR1. This occurred in the potency order pomalidomide > lenalidomide > thalidomide, and the nucleoside analogue ganciclovir enhanced the cytotoxic effects of lenalidomide and pomalidomide in Burkitt lymphoma cells in vitro and in vivo EBV reactivation was related to PI3K stimulation and Ikaros suppression, and blocked by the PI3Kδ inhibitor idelalisib. Combinations of lenalidomide with dexamethasone or rituximab increased EBV reactivation compared with lenalidomide alone and, importantly, lenalidomide with melphalan produced even greater reactivation.CONCLUSIONS: We conclude LTP may reactivate EBV-positive resting memory B cells thereby enhancing EBV lytic cycle and host immune suppression. Clin Cancer Res; 22(19); 4901-12. ©2016 AACR.
BACKGROUND: Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are a cornerstone of graft acceptance. High numbers of Tregs are associated with better long-term graft survival. Recently, Vitamin D was suggested as an immunomodulator, in addition to its classical role in calcium metabolism. Vitamin D modulates Tregs and might, thereby, promote graft acceptance and long-term graft survival.METHODS: One hundred twenty-three renal allograft recipients attending either Heidelberg nephrology or Giessen internal medicine clinic were enrolled in this cross- sectional study. Sixteen healthy controls were studied in addition. Sixty-nine patients were receiving no vitamin D, 38 calcitriol, and 16 cholecalciferol supplementations. We evaluated whether there was a difference in the absolute numbers of Helios(+), Helios(-), CTLA-4(+), IFNg(+), and total Tregs among the patient groups.RESULTS: Cholecalciferol supplementation was associated with higher absolute numbers of Helios(+), CTLA-4(+), and total Tregs than calcitriol (p < 0.001, p = 0.004, p = 0.001 respectively). Helios(+) Tregs were also higher in cholecalciferol than no vitamin D supplementation patients (p = 0.001), whereas CTLA-4(+) and total Tregs were similar in both groups (p = NS). Helios(+), Helios(-), CTLA-4(+), IFNg(+), and total Tregs were similar in the cholecalciferol and healthy control groups (p = NS).CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that cholecalciferol, even when administered at low dosages, has a stabilizing effect on Tregs (particularly the Helios + subset), in contrast to calcitriol which showed neither a stabilizing nor a proliferation-inducing effect on the same cell population.
Erratum in    BMC Bioinformatics. 2016;17:290.
Comment in    Nat Med. 2016 Jul 7;22(7):706-7.
Author information:(1)Department of Nanoparticle Translational Research, Tokyo Medical University.
Although the chemotactic cytokine CXCL3 is thought to play an important role in tumor initiation and invasion, little is known about its function in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In our previous study, we found that Ikaros inhibited CD133 expression via the MAPK pathway in HCC. Here, we showed that Ikaros may indirectly down-regulate CXCL3 expression in HCC cells, which leads to better outcomes in patients with CD133(+) cancer stem cell (CSC) populations. CD133 overexpression induced CXCL3 expression, and silencing of CD133 down-regulated CXCL3 in HCC cells. Knockdown of CXCL3 inhibited CD133(+) HCC CSCs' self-renewal and tumorigenesis. The serum CXCL3 level was higher in HCC patients' samples than that in healthy individual. HCC patients with higher CXCL3 expression displayed a poor prognosis, and a high level of CXCL3 was significantly associated with vascular invasion and tumor capsule formation. Exogenous CXCL3 induced Erk1/2 and ETS1 phosphorylation and promoted CD133 expression, indicating a positive feedback loop between CXCL3 and CD133 gene expression in HCC cells via Erk1/2 activation. Together, our findings indicated that CXCL3 might be a potent therapeutic target for HCC.
Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is a primary antibody deficiency characterised by hypogammaglobulinaemia, impaired production of specific antibodies after immunisation and increased susceptibility to infections. CVID shows a considerable phenotypical and genetic heterogeneity. In contrast to many other primary immunodeficiencies, monogenic forms count for only 2-10% of patients with CVID. Genes that have been implicated in monogenic CVID include ICOS, TNFRSF13B (TACI), TNFRSF13C (BAFF-R), TNFSF12 (TWEAK), CD19, CD81, CR2 (CD21), MS4A1 (CD20), TNFRSF7 (CD27), IL21, IL21R, LRBA, CTLA4, PRKCD, PLCG2, NFKB1, NFKB2, PIK3CD, PIK3R1, VAV1, RAC2, BLK, IKZF1 (IKAROS) and IRF2BP2 With the increasing number of disease genes identified in CVID, it has become clear that CVID is an umbrella diagnosis and that many of these genetic defects cause distinct disease entities. Moreover, there is accumulating evidence that at least a subgroup of patients with CVID has a complex rather than a monogenic inheritance. This review aims to discuss current knowledge regarding the molecular genetic basis of CVID with an emphasis on the relationship with the clinical and immunological phenotype.
Breakpoint cluster region-Abelson murine leukaemia viral oncogene homologue 1 (BCR-ABL1), encoded by the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome, is the characteristic of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) and a subset of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). We demonstrated that expression of the Ik6 transcript, which lacked exons 3-6, was observed exclusively in BCR-ABL1(+) B ALL and lymphoid blast crisis CML (BC-CML) patients harbouring the IKZF1 Δ3-6 deletion. To confirm the hypothesis that illegitimate recombination activating gene protein (RAG)-mediated recombination events are involved in IKZF1 Δ3-6 deletion in BCR-ABL1 lymphoblastic leukaemia, we first demonstrated that the expression rates of RAG1 and RAG2, collectively called RAG, were higher in ALL and BC-CML (lymphoid). Notably, analysis of relationships among RAG, BCR-ABL1 and Ikaros 6 (Ik6) showed that Ik6 can be generated only if RAG and BCR-ABL1 are co-existing. The sequencing data showed that the deleted segments of introns 2 and 6 contained cryptic recombination signal sequences (cRSSs) and frequently had non-template nucleotides inserted between breakpoints. Furthermore, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) technology and demonstrated that the sequences directly flanking IKZF1 Δ3-6 deletion breakpoints have significantly higher levels of histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) modifications. Overall, RAG expression, good-quality cRSS and a specific chromatin modification, H3K4me3, satisfy the conditions of RAG's off-target effects on IKZF1. Our work provides evidence for RAG-mediated IKZF1 Δ3-6 deletion. Our results raise the prospect that RAG is a valuable biomarker in disease surveillance. Dissecting the contribution of RAG should not only provide valuable mechanistic insights, but will also lead to a new therapeutic direction.
Comment on    Leukemia. 2016 Jul;30(7):1599-603.
INTRODUCTION: Perinatal asphyxia is a major cause for neonatal mortality and morbidity around the world. The reduction of O2 results in the generation of reactive oxygen species which interact with nucleic acid and make alteration in the structure and functioning of the genome. We studied the effect of therapeutic hypothermia on chromosomes with karyotyping.SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Babies in the hypothermia group were cooled for the first 72 h, using gel packs. Rectal temperature of 33-34°C was maintained. Blood sample was collected after completion of therapeutic hypothermia for Chromosomal analysis. It was done with IKAROS Karyotyping system, Metasystems, based on recommendations of International system of human cytogenetic nomenclature.RESULTS: The median chromosomal aberration was lower in hypothermia [2(0-5)] than control group [4(1-7)] and chromatid breakage was commonest aberration seen. Chromosomal aberration was significantly higher in severe encephalopathy group than moderate encephalopathy group.CONCLUSION: We conclude that the TH significantly reduces DNA damage in perinatal asphyxia.
Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) focusing on pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), the most common malignancy in children younger than 15 years old, have found evidence that single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in IKZF1 (7p12.2), ARID5B (10q21.2), CDKN2A (9p21.3), and CEBPE (14q11.2) are strongly associated to the risk of developing pediatric ALL. These studies have been conducted in European and Thai populations, and it is unclear whether these observations generalize to other populations with a lower incidence of pediatric ALL. In order to explore the impact of these variants on pediatric ALL risk in the Tunisian population, we genotyped 58 cases of pediatric ALL and 150 controls for SNPs rs4132601 (7p12.2), rs7089424 (10q21.2), rs3731217 (9p21.3), and rs2239633 (14q11.2). Our results, which are consistent with findings in European populations, show that 3 SNPs, i.e., rs4132601 (P = .00116, odds ratio [OR] = 2.78, 95% confidence interval [CI] = [1.42, 5.87]), rs7089424 (P = .0022, OR = 0.49, 95% CI = [0.31, 0.79]), and rs2239633 (P = .0010, OR = 0.47, 95% CI = [0.29, 0.75]) are significantly associated with a higher risk of developing pediatric ALL (P < .05). Furthermore, we show differences in allele frequencies in SNPs between Tunisian and Caucasian and/or Thai populations (e.g., CEBPE, rs2239633; population attributable risk [PAR] ∼15-fold the PAR of Thai population). These differences, combined with differences in linkage disequilibrium structure between populations and differences in size between populations, may contribute to racial differences in pediatric ALL incidence.
Recent studies revealed that a substantial proportion of patients with high-risk B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) harbor fusions involving tyrosine kinase and cytokine receptors, such as ABL1, PDGFRB, JAK2 and CRLF2, which are targeted by tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). In the present study, transcriptome analysis or multiplex reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis of 373 BCP-ALL patients without recurrent genetic abnormalities identified 29 patients with kinase fusions. Clinically, male predominance (male/female: 22/7), older age at onset (mean age at onset: 8.8 years) and a high white blood cell count at diagnosis (mean: 94 200/μl) reflected the predominance of National Cancer Institute high-risk (NCI-HR) patients (NCI-standard risk/HR: 8/21). Genetic analysis identified three patients with ABL1 rearrangements, eight with PDGFRB rearrangements, two with JAK2 rearrangements, three with IgH-EPOR and one with NCOR1-LYN. Of the 14 patients with CRLF2 rearrangements, two harbored IgH-EPOR and PDGFRB rearrangements. IKZF1 deletion was present in 16 of the 22 patients. The 5-year event-free and overall survival rates were 48.6±9.7% and 73.5±8.6%, respectively. The outcome was not satisfactory without sophisticated minimal residual disease-based stratification. Furthermore, the efficacy of TKIs combined with conventional chemotherapy without allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in this cohort should be determined.
The purpose of this study was to screen the key genes and pathways of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and lay the foundation for its diagnosis and therapy. Microarray data of normal subjects and RCC patients at different stages of disease were used to screen differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Based on the DEGs in the four disease stages, four co-expression networks were constructed using the Empirical Bayes method and hub genes were obtained by centrality analysis. The enriched pathways of the DEGs and the mutual hub genes in the cluster of each disease stage were investigated. The mutual hub genes of the four disease stages in RCC tissue were validated using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blot analysis. A total of 432 DEGs were screened, including 233 upregulated and 199 downregulated genes, by statistical analysis. Centrality analysis of co-expression networks in different disease stages suggested that PLXDC1, IKZF1, RUNX2, and RNF125 were mutual hub genes. Pathway analysis showed that the DEGs were significantly enriched in seven terms. The hub modules in stage I disease were significantly enriched in the complement coagulation cascade pathway and the hub modules of the other three disease stages were enriched in natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity. The expression levels of PLXDC1, IKZF1, RUNX2, and RNF125 were significantly different between normal subjects and RCC patients by RT-PCR and western blot. Our study revealed four hub genes (PLXDC1, IKZF1, RUNX2, and RNF125) and two biological pathways that might be underlying biomarkers involved in RCC.
Even though breastfeeding is typically considered the preferred feeding method for infants worldwide, in Belgium, breastfeeding rates remain low across native and migrant groups while the underlying determinants are unclear. Furthermore, research examining contextual effects, especially regarding gender (in)equality and ideology, has not been conducted. We hypothesized that greater gender equality scores in the country of origin will result in higher breastfeeding chances. Because gender equality does not operate only at the contextual level but can be mediated through individual level resources, we hypothesized the following for maternal education: higher maternal education will be an important positive predictor for exclusive breastfeeding chances in Belgium, but its effects will differ over subsequent origin countries. Based on IKAROS data (GeÏntegreerd Kind Activiteiten en Regio Ondersteunings Systeem), we perform multilevel analyses on 27 936 newborns. Feeding method is indicated by exclusive breastfeeding 3 months after childbirth. We measure gender (in)equality using Global Gender Gap scores from the mother's origin country. Maternal education is a metric variable based on International Standard Classification of Education indicators. Results show that 3.6% of the variation in breastfeeding can be explained by differences between the migrant mother's country of origin. However, the effect of gender (in)equality appears to be non-significant. After adding maternal education, the effect for origin countries scoring low on gender equality turns significant. Maternal education on its own shows strong positive association with exclusive breastfeeding and, furthermore, has different effects for different origin countries. Possible explanations are discussed in-depth setting direction for further research regarding the different pathways gender (in)equality and maternal education affect breastfeeding. © 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) is a common hematological malignancy in children, with a prognosis much worse in adults. The molecular characterization of ALL and its correlated prognostic significance are largely unknown. In this study, we analyzed the frequency of IKZF1 deletions, IK6 isoform, and CRLF2 overexpression in 118 Chinese adult B-cell precursor ALL (B-ALL) patients to explore their associations with clinical prognosis. Our data showed that IKZF1 deletions and IK6 isoform were highly detected in adult patients, and both of them were related with worse prognosis in Ph- B-ALL, HR group of Ph- B-ALL, and/or B-ALL patients. Though the frequency of CRLF2 overexpression was similar to children, it had an independent prognostic significance for standard-risk and Ph- adult patients. Our study provided insights into the prognostic significance of certain genetic features in B-ALL patients. Further therapeutic strategies targeting these abnormalities potentially improving the prognosis of B-ALL are warranted.
BACKGROUND: Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), such as lenalidomide, are therapeutically active compounds that bind and modulate the E3 ubiquitin ligase substrate recruiter cereblon, thereby affect steady-state levels of cereblon and cereblon binding partners, such as ikaros and aiolos, and induce many cellular responses, including cytotoxicity to multiple myeloma (MM) cells. Nevertheless, it takes many days for MM cells to die after IMiD induced depletion of ikaros and aiolos and thus we searched for other cereblon binding partners that participate in IMiD cytotoxicity.METHODS: Cereblon binding partners were identified from a MM cell line expressing histidine-tagged cereblon by pulling down cereblon and its binding partners and verified by co-immunoprecipitation. IMiD effects were determined by western blot analysis, cell viability assay, microRNA array and apoptosis analysis.RESULTS: We identified argonaute 2 (AGO2) as a cereblon binding partner and found that the steady-state levels of AGO2 were regulated by cereblon. Upon treatment of IMiD-sensitive MM cells with lenalidomide, the steady-state levels of cereblon were significantly increased, whereas levels of AGO2 were significantly decreased. It has been reported that AGO2 plays a pivotal role in microRNA maturation and function. Interestingly, upon treatment of MM cells with lenalidomide, the steady-state levels of microRNAs were significantly altered. In addition, silencing of AGO2 in MM cells, regardless of sensitivity to IMiDs, significantly decreased the levels of AGO2 and microRNAs and massively induced cell death.CONCLUSION: These results support the notion that the cereblon binding partner AGO2 plays an important role in regulating MM cell growth and survival and AGO2 could be considered as a novel drug target for overcoming IMiD resistance in MM cells.
Tumor immunotherapy based on the use of chimeric antigen receptor modified T cells (CAR T cells) is a promising approach for the treatment of refractory hematological malignancies. However, a robust response mediated by CAR T cells is observed only in a minority of patients and the expansion and persistence of CAR T cells in vivo is mostly unpredictable.Lenalidomide (LEN) is an immunomodulatory drug currently approved for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) and mantle cell lymphoma, while it is clinically tested in the therapy of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma of activated B cell immunophenotype. LEN was shown to increase antitumor immune responses at least partially by modulating the activity of E3 ubiquitin ligase Cereblon, which leads to increased ubiquitinylation of Ikaros and Aiolos transcription factors, which in turn results in changed expression of various receptors on the surface of tumor cells. In order to enhance the effectiveness of CAR-based immunotherapy, we assessed the anti-lymphoma efficacy of LEN in combination with CAR19 T cells or CAR20 T cells in vitro and in vivo using various murine models of aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (B-NHL).Immunodeficient NSG mice were transplanted with various human B-NHL cells followed by treatment with CAR19 or CAR20 T cells with or without LEN. Next, CAR19 T cells were subjected to series of tests in vitro to evaluate their response and signaling capacity following recognition of B cell in the presence or absence of LEN.Our data shows that LEN significantly enhances antitumor functions of CAR19 and CAR20 T cells in vivo. Additionally, it enhances production of interferon gamma by CAR19 T cells and augments cell signaling via CAR19 protein in T cells in vitro. Our data further suggests that LEN works through direct effects on T cells but not on B-NHL cells. The biochemical events underlying this costimulatory effect of LEN are currently being investigated. In summary, our data supports the use of LEN for augmentation of CAR-based immunotherapy in the clinical grounds.
BCR-ABL1+ B progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ B-ALL) is an aggressive disease that frequently responds poorly to currently available therapies. Alterations in IKZF1, which encodes the lymphoid transcription factor Ikaros, are present in over 80% of Ph+ ALL and are associated with a stem cell-like phenotype, aberrant adhesion molecule expression and signaling, leukemic cell adhesion to the bone marrow stem cell niche, and poor outcome. Here, we show that FAK1 is upregulated in Ph+ B-ALL with further overexpression in IKZF1-altered cells and that the FAK inhibitor VS-4718 potently inhibits aberrant FAK signaling and leukemic cell adhesion, potentiating responsiveness to tyrosine kinase inhibitors, inducing cure in vivo. Thus, targeting FAK with VS-4718 is an attractive approach to overcome the deleterious effects of FAK overexpression in Ph+ B-ALL, particularly in abrogating the adhesive phenotype induced by Ikaros alterations, and warrants evaluation in clinical trials for Ph+ B-ALL, regardless of IKZF1 status.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a possible risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The association of COPD with the pathogenicity of infection with Chlamydia pneumoniae and Mycoplasma pneumoniae is controversial. We conducted a cross-sectional study to clarify the association between atypical pneumoniae seropositivity and COPD in a general population. We also investigated genetic polymorphisms conferring susceptibility to a pneumonia titer. The study included 9040 Japanese subjects (54 ± 13 years). COPD was defined as a ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 second to forced vital capacity of less than 70%. Serum levels of IgA and IgG antibodies to C pneumoniae were determined using an enzyme-linked immunoassay, and M pneumoniae seropositivity was assessed by a particle agglutination test. Subjects seropositive for C pneumoniae (26.1%) had a higher prevalence of COPD (seropositive, 5.8%; seronegative, 3.1%; P < 0.001) after adjustment for age, sex, height, weight, and smoking status. The association between M pneumoniae seropositivity (20.4%) and COPD was also significant in covariate-adjusted analysis (P < 0.001). A genome-wide association analysis of the C pneumoniae IgA index identified a susceptible genotype (rs17634369) near the IKZF1 gene, and the seropositive rate of C pneumoniae significantly differed among genotypes (AA, 22.5; AG, 25.3; GG, 29.7%, P < 0.001). On multiple regression analysis, seropositivity for both C pneumoniae (odds ratio = 1.41, P = 0.004) and M pneumoniae (odds ratio = 1.60, P = 0.002) was an independent determinant for COPD, while no direct association was found with the rs17634369 genotype. Seropositivity for both C pneumoniae and M pneumoniae is an independent risk factor for COPD in the general population.
BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis is a chronic inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. Recent genome-wide studies have revealed more than 110 single nucleotide polymorphisms as associated with susceptibility to multiple sclerosis, but their functional contribution to disease development is mostly unknown.RESULTS: Consistent allelic imbalance was observed for rs907091 in IKZF3 and rs11609 in IQGAP1, which are in strong linkage disequilibrium with the multiple sclerosis associated single nucleotide polymorphisms rs12946510 and rs8042861, respectively. Using multiple sclerosis patients and healthy controls heterozygous for rs907091 and rs11609, we showed that the multiple sclerosis risk alleles at IKZF3 and IQGAP1 are expressed at higher levels as compared to the protective allele. Furthermore, individuals homozygous for the multiple sclerosis risk allele at IQGAP1 had a significantly higher total expression of IQGAP1 compared to individuals homozygous for the protective allele.CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate a possible regulatory role for the multiple sclerosis-associated IKZF3 and IQGAP1 variants. We suggest that such cis-acting mechanisms may contribute to the multiple sclerosis association of single nucleotide polymorphisms at IKZF3 and IQGAP1.
BACKGROUND: Interrogate the impact of IKZF1 deletion on therapy-outcomes of adults with common B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.METHODS: One hundred sixty-five consecutive adults with common B-cell ALL were tested for IKZF1 deletion and for BCR/ABL. Deletions in IKZF1 were detected using multiplex RQ-PCR, multiplex fluorescent PCR, sequence analysis and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA). BCR/ABL was detected using RQ-PCR. All subjects received chemotherapy and some also received an allotransplant and tyrosine kinase-inhibitors. Multivariate analyses were done to identify associations between IKZF1 deletion and other variables on non-relapse mortality (NRM), cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR), leukemia-free survival (LFS) and survival.RESULTS: Amongst subjects achieving complete remission those with IKZF1 deletion had similar 5-year non-relapse mortality (NRM) (11% [2-20%] vs. 16% [4-28%]; P = 0.736), a higher 5-year cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) (55% [35-76%] vs. 25% [12-38%]; P = 0.004), and worse 5-year leukemia-free survival (LFS) (33% [16-52%] vs. 59% [42-73%]; P = 0.012) and survival (48% [33-62%] vs. 75% [57-86%]; P = 0.002). In multivariate analyses IKZF1 deletion was associated with an increased relapse (relative risk [RR] =2.7, [1.4-5.2]; P = 0.002), a higher risk of treatment-failure (inverse of LFS; RR = 2.1, [1.2-3.6]; P = 0.007) and a higher risk of death (RR = 2.8, [1.5-5.5]; P = 0.002). The adverse impact of IKZF1 deletion on outcomes was stronger in subjects without vs. with BCR-ABL1 and in subjects receiving chemotherapy-only vs. an allotransplant.CONCLUSIONS: IKZF1 deletion was independently-associated with a higher relapse risk and worse LFS and survival in adults with common B-cell ALL after adjusting for other prognostic variables and differences in therapies. These data suggest IKZF1 deletion may be a useful prognostic variable in adults with common B-cell ALL, especially in persons without BCR-ABL1 and those receiving chemotherapy-only. Transplants appear to overcome the adverse impact of IKZF1 deletion on therapy-outcomes but confirmation in a randomized study is needed. The trial was registered in 2007 with the Beijing Municipal Government (Beijing Municipal Health Bureau Registration N: 2007-1007).
Thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide have greatly improved the outcome of patients with multiple myeloma. However, their effects on plasma cells, the healthy counterpart of myeloma cells, are unknown. Here, we investigated lenalidomide effects on normal human plasma cell generation using an in vitro model. Lenalidomide inhibited the generation of pre-plasmablasts and early plasma cells, while it moderately affected plasmablast production. It also reduced the expression level of Ikaros, Aiolos, and IRF4 transcription factors, in plasmablasts and early plasma cells. This suggests that their differential sensitivity to lenalidomide is not due to a difference in Ikaros or Aiolos degradation. Lenalidomide also inhibited long-lived plasma cell generation, but did not impair their long-term survival once generated. This last observation is in agreement with the finding that lenalidomide treatment for 3-18 months did not affect the bone marrow healthy plasma cell count in allografted patients with multiple myeloma. Our findings should prompt to investigate whether lenalidomide resistance in patients with multiple myeloma could be associated with the emergence of malignant plasmablasts or long-lived plasma cells that are less sensitive to lenalidomide.
PURPOSE: To determine how low-dose ionizing radiation (LDIR) regulates B lympho-proliferation and its molecular mechanism related with Ikaros, transcription factor.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Splenocytes and IM-9 cells were uniformly irradiated with various doses of a (137)Cs γ-source, and cell proliferation was analyzed. To determine the LDIR-specific phosphorylation of Ikaros, immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis were performed. To investigate the physiologic function of LDIR-mediatied Ikaros phosphorylation, Ikaros mutants at phosphorylation sites were generated, and cell cycle analysis was performed.RESULTS: First, we found that LDIR enhances B lymphoblast proliferation in an Ikaros-dependent manner. Moreover, we found that LDIR elevates the phosphorylation level of Ikaros protein. Interestingly, we showed that CK2 and AKT are involved in LDIR-induced Ikaros phosphorylation and capable of regulating DNA binding activity of Ikaros via specific phosphorylation. Finally, we identified LDIR-specific Ikaros phosphorylation sites at S391/S393 and showed that the Ikaros phosphorylations at these sites control Ikaros's ability to regulate G1/S cell cycle progression.CONCLUSION: Low-dose ionizing radiation specifically phosphorylates Ikaros protein at Ser 391/393 residues to regulate cell cycle progression in B lymphoblast.
Comprehensive next-generation sequencing (NGS) applications have recently identified various recurrent kinase and cytokine receptor rearrangements in Ph-like B-cell precursor (BCP) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) amenable to tyrosin kinase inhibitor treatment. For rapid diagnostics of kinase pathway aberrations in minimal residual disease (MRD) high-risk BCP-ALL, we developed a PCR-independent NGS custom enrichment capture panel targeting recurrent genomic alterations, which allows for the identification of unknown 5' fusion partner genes and precise mapping of variable genomic breakpoints. Using a standardized bioinformatics algorithm, we identified kinase and cytokine receptor rearrangements in the majority of ALL patients with high burden of postinduction MRD and enrichment of IKZF1 mutation or deletion (IKZF1(del) ).
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are functionally suppressive CD4 T cells, critical for establishing peripheral tolerance and controlling inflammatory responses. Previous reports of Tregs during chronic HIV disease have conflicting results with higher or lower levels compared with controls. Identifying true Tregs with suppressive activity proves challenging during HIV infection, as traditional Treg markers, CD25 and FOXP3, may transiently upregulate expression as a result of immune activation (IA). Helios is an Ikaros family transcription factor that marks natural Tregs with suppressive activity and does not upregulate expression after activation. Coexpression of FOXP3 and Helios has been suggested as a highly specific marker of "bona fide" Tregs. We evaluated Treg subsets by FOXP3 coexpressed with either CD25 or Helios and their association with HIV disease progression in perinatally infected HIV-positive children. Identifying Tregs by FOXP3 coexpression with Helios rather than CD25 revealed markedly higher Treg frequencies, particularly in HIV+ children. Regardless of antiretroviral therapy, HIV-infected children had a selective expansion of memory FOXP3+Helios+ Tregs. The rise in memory Tregs correlated with declining HIV clinical status, indicated by falling CD4 percentages and CD4:CD8 ratios and increasing HIV plasma viremia and IA. In addition, untreated HIV+ children exhibited an imbalance between the levels of Tregs and activated T cells. Finally, memory Tregs expressed IA markers CD38 and Ki67 and exhaustion marker, PD-1, that tightly correlated with a similar phenotype in memory CD4 T cells. Overall, HIV-infected children had significant disruptions of memory Tregs that associated with advancing HIV disease.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) occurs with high frequency in childhood and is associated with high mortality in adults. Recent technical advances in next-generation sequencing have shed light on genetic abnormalities in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells as the precursor to ALL pathogenesis. Based on these genetic abnormalities, ALL is now being reclassified into newly identified subtypes. Philadelphia chromosome-like B-lineage ALL is one of the new high-risk subtypes characterized by genetic alterations that activate various signaling pathways, including those involving cytokine receptors, tyrosine kinases, and epigenetic modifiers. Philadelphia chromosome-like ALL is essentially heterogeneous; however, deletion mutations in the IKZF1 gene encoding the transcription factor IKAROS underlie many cases as a key factor inducing aggressive phenotypes and poor treatment responses. Whole-genome sequencing studies of ALL patients and ethnically matched controls also identified inherited genetic variations in lymphoid neoplasm-related genes, which are likely to increase ALL susceptibility. These findings are directly relevant to clinical hematology, and further studies on this aspect could contribute to accurate diagnosis, effective monitoring of residual disease, and patient-oriented therapies.
BACKGROUND: Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is characterized by late-onset hypogammaglobulinemia in the absence of predisposing factors. The genetic cause is unknown in the majority of cases, and less than 10% of patients have a family history of the disease. Most patients have normal numbers of B cells but lack plasma cells.METHODS: We used whole-exome sequencing and array-based comparative genomic hybridization to evaluate a subset of patients with CVID and low B-cell numbers. Mutant proteins were analyzed for DNA binding with the use of an electrophoretic mobility-shift assay (EMSA) and confocal microscopy. Flow cytometry was used to analyze peripheral-blood lymphocytes and bone marrow aspirates.RESULTS: Six different heterozygous mutations in IKZF1, the gene encoding the transcription factor IKAROS, were identified in 29 persons from six families. In two families, the mutation was a de novo event in the proband. All the mutations, four amino acid substitutions, an intragenic deletion, and a 4.7-Mb multigene deletion involved the DNA-binding domain of IKAROS. The proteins bearing missense mutations failed to bind target DNA sequences on EMSA and confocal microscopy; however, they did not inhibit the binding of wild-type IKAROS. Studies in family members showed progressive loss of B cells and serum immunoglobulins. Bone marrow aspirates in two patients had markedly decreased early B-cell precursors, but plasma cells were present. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia developed in 2 of the 29 patients.CONCLUSIONS: Heterozygous mutations in the transcription factor IKAROS caused an autosomal dominant form of CVID that is associated with a striking decrease in B-cell numbers. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and others.).
The Ets family transcription factor PU.1 and the interferon regulatory factor (IRF)4 and IRF8 regulate gene expression by binding to composite DNA sequences known as Ets/interferon consensus elements. Although all three factors are expressed from the onset of B-cell development, single deficiency of these factors in B-cell progenitors only mildly impacts on bone marrow B lymphopoiesis. Here we tested whether PU.1 cooperates with IRF factors in regulating early B-cell development. Lack of PU.1 and IRF4 resulted in a partial block in development the pre-B-cell stage. The combined deletion of PU.1 and IRF8 reduced recirculating B-cell numbers. Strikingly, all PU.1/IRF4 and ~50% of PU.1/IRF8 double deficient mice developed pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) associated with reduced expression of the established B-lineage tumor suppressor genes, Ikaros and Spi-B. These genes are directly regulated by PU.1/IRF4/IRF8, and restoration of Ikaros or Spi-B expression inhibited leukemic cell growth. In summary, we demonstrate that PU.1, IRF4 and IRF8 cooperate to regulate early B-cell development and to prevent pre-B-ALL formation.
Protein signaling and regulation of gene expression are the two major mechanisms that regulate cellular proliferation in leukemia. Discerning the function of these processes is essential for understanding the pathogenesis of leukemia and for developing the targeted therapies. Here, we provide an overview of one of the mechanisms that regulates gene transcription in leukemia. This mechanism involves the direct interaction between Casein Kinase II (CK2) and the Ikaros transcription factor. Ikaros (IKZF1) functions as a master regulator of hematopoiesis and a tumor suppressor in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Impaired Ikaros function results in the development of high-risk leukemia. Ikaros binds to the upstream regulatory elements of its target genes and regulates their transcription via chromatin remodeling. In vivo, Ikaros is a target for CK2, a pro-oncogenic kinase. CK2 directly phosphorylates Ikaros at multiple amino acids. Functional experiments showed that CK2-mediated phosphorylation of Ikaros, regulates Ikaros' DNA binding affinity, subcellular localization and protein stability. Recent studies revealed that phosphorylation of Ikaros by CK2 regulates Ikaros binding and repression of the terminal deoxytransferase (TdT) gene in normal thymocytes and in T-cell ALL. Available data suggest that the oncogenic activity of CK2 in leukemia involves functional inactivation of Ikaros and provide a rationale for CK2 inhibitors as a potential treatment for ALL.
Thalidomide and its derivatives, lenalidomide and pomalidomide, are immune modulatory drugs (IMiDs) used in the treatment of haematologic malignancies. IMiDs bind CRBN, the substrate receptor of the CUL4-RBX1-DDB1-CRBN (also known as CRL4(CRBN)) E3 ubiquitin ligase, and inhibit ubiquitination of endogenous CRL4(CRBN) substrates. Unexpectedly, IMiDs also repurpose the ligase to target new proteins for degradation. Lenalidomide induces degradation of the lymphoid transcription factors Ikaros and Aiolos (also known as IKZF1 and IKZF3), and casein kinase 1α (CK1α), which contributes to its clinical efficacy in the treatment of multiple myeloma and 5q-deletion associated myelodysplastic syndrome (del(5q) MDS), respectively. How lenalidomide alters the specificity of the ligase to degrade these proteins remains elusive. Here we present the 2.45 Å crystal structure of DDB1-CRBN bound to lenalidomide and CK1α. CRBN and lenalidomide jointly provide the binding interface for a CK1α β-hairpin-loop located in the kinase N-lobe. We show that CK1α binding to CRL4(CRBN) is strictly dependent on the presence of an IMiD. Binding of IKZF1 to CRBN similarly requires the compound and both, IKZF1 and CK1α, use a related binding mode. Our study provides a mechanistic explanation for the selective efficacy of lenalidomide in del(5q) MDS therapy. We anticipate that high-affinity protein-protein interactions induced by small molecules will provide opportunities for drug development, particularly for targeted protein degradation.
Comment in    Leuk Lymphoma. 2017 Apr;58(4):1005-1007.
OBJECTIVE: Natural killer (NK) cells are important mediators of liver inflammation in chronic liver disease. The aim of this study was to investigate why liver transplants (LTs) are not rejected by NK cells in the absence of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matching, and to identify a tolerogenic NK cell phenotype.DESIGN: Phenotypic and functional analyses on NK cells from 54 LT recipients were performed, and comparisons made with healthy controls. Further investigation was performed using gene expression analysis and donor:recipient HLA typing.RESULTS: NK cells from non-HCV LT recipients were hypofunctional, with reduced expression of NKp46 (p<0.05) and NKp30 (p<0.001), reduced cytotoxicity (p<0.001) and interferon (IFN)-γ secretion (p<0.025). There was no segregation of this effect with HLA-C, and these functional changes were not observed in individuals with HCV. Microarray and RT-qPCR analysis demonstrated downregulation of STAT4 in NK cells from LT recipients (p<0.0001). Changes in the expression levels of the transcription factors Helios (p=0.06) and Hobit (p=0.07), which control NKp46 and IFNγ expression, respectively, were also detected. Hypofunctionality of NK cells was associated with impaired STAT4 phosphorylation and downregulation of the STAT4 target microRNA-155. Conversely in HCV-LT NK cell tolerance was reversed, consistent with the more aggressive outcome of LT for HCV.CONCLUSIONS: LT is associated with transcriptional and functional changes in NK cells, resulting in reduced activation. NK cell tolerance occurs upstream of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I mediated education, and is associated with deficient STAT4 phosphorylation. STAT4 therefore represents a potential therapeutic target to induce NK cell tolerance in liver disease.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) comprise numerous heterogeneous subsets with distinct phenotypic and functional features. Identifying Treg markers is critical to investigate the role and clinical impact of various Treg subsets in pathological settings, and also for developing more effective immunotherapies. We have recently shown that non-activated FoxP3-Helios+ and activated FoxP3+/-Helios+ CD4+ T cells express GARP/LAP immunosuppressive markers in healthy donors. In this study we report similar observations in the peripheral blood of patients with pancreatic cancer (PC) and liver metastases from colorectal cancer (LICRC). Comparing levels of different Treg subpopulations in cancer patients and controls, we report that in PC patients, and unlike LICRC patients, there was no increase in Treg levels as defined by FoxP3 and Helios. However, defining Tregs based on GARP/LAP expression showed that FoxP3-LAP+ Tregs in non-activated and activated settings, and FoxP3+Helios+GARP+LAP+ activated Tregs were significantly increased in both groups of patients, compared with controls. This work implies that a combination of Treg-specific markers could be used to more accurately determine expanded Treg subsets and to understand their contribution in cancer settings. Additionally, GARP-/+LAP+ CD4+ T cells made IL-10, and not IFN-γ, and levels of IL-10-secreting CD4+ T cells were elevated in LICRC patients, especially with higher tumor staging. Taken together, our results indicate that investigations of Treg levels in different cancers should consider diverse Treg-related markers such as GARP, LAP, Helios, and others and not only FoxP3 as a sole Treg-specific marker.
Author information:(1)Deparmtent of Pediatrics, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.
CD4+ T regulatory cells (Tregs) comprise a heterogeneous population of cells the regulate immune responses and prevent autoimmunity. Most reports on human Tregs are derived from studies of peripheral blood, although Tregs mainly exert their functions in the periphery. Here we performed a detailed analysis of Tregs in the human upper airway mucosa under non-inflammatory conditions, and found that 10% of all CD4+ T cells expressed the transcription factor FOXP3 and the memory marker CD45RO, as well as high levels of CTLA-4. The majority of FOXP3+CD4+ T cells co-expressed the transcription factor Helios and produced very little cytokines, compatible with being thymus-derived Tregs. FOXP3+Helios-CD4+ T cells were more heterogeneous. A mean of 24% produced the immunomodulatory cytokine IL-10, whereas a large fraction also produced IL-2, IFN-μ or IL-17. A significant population (6%) of FOXP3-negative T cells also produced IL-10, usually in combination with IFN-μ. Together, we found that CD4+ T cells in the upper airways differed functionally from their counterparts in peripheral blood, including higher expression of IL-10. Moreover, our findings suggest that several subsets of CD4+ T cells with functionally distinct regulatory properties reside in the upper airway mucosa which should be taken into account when targeting Tregs for therapy.
B1 B cells secrete most of the circulating natural antibodies and are considered key effector cells of the innate immune response. However, B1 cell-associated antibodies often cross-react with self-antigens, which leads to autoimmunity, and B1 cells have been implicated in cancer. How B1 cell activity is regulated remains unclear. We show that the Ikaros transcription factor is a major negative regulator of B1 cell development and function. Using conditional knock-out mouse models to delete Ikaros at different locations, we show that Ikaros-deficient mice exhibit specific and significant increases in splenic and bone marrow B1 cell numbers, and that the B1 progenitor cell pool is increased ∼10-fold in the bone marrow. Ikaros-null B1 cells resemble WT B1 cells at the molecular and cellular levels, but show a down-regulation of signaling components important for inhibiting proliferation and immunoglobulin production. Ikaros-null B1 cells hyper-react to TLR4 stimulation and secrete high amounts of IgM autoantibodies. These results indicate that Ikaros is required to limit B1 cell homeostasis in the adult.
The transcriptional repressor B lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (Blimp-1) has crucial roles in the control of plasma cell differentiation and in maintaining survival of plasma cells. However, how Blimp-1 ensures the survival of plasma cell malignancy, multiple myeloma (MM), has remained elusive. Here we identified Aiolos, an anti-apoptotic transcription factor of MM cells, as a Blimp-1-interacting protein by mass spectrometry. ChIP coupled with DNA microarray was used to profile the global binding of Aiolos and Blimp-1 to endogenous targets in MM cells, which revealed their co-binding to a large number of genes, including apoptosis-related genes. Accordingly, Blimp-1 and Aiolos regulate similar transcriptomes in MM cells. Analysis of the binding motifs for Blimp-1 and Aiolos uncovered a partial motif that was similar across sites for both proteins. Aiolos promotes the binding of Blimp-1 to target genes and thereby enhances Blimp-1-dependent transcriptional repression. Furthermore, treatment with an anti-MM agent, lenalidomide, caused ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of Blimp-1, leading to the de-repression of a new Blimp-1 direct target, CULLIN 4A (CUL4A), and reduced Aiolos levels. Accordingly, lenalidomide-induced cell death was partially rescued by reintroduction of Blimp-1 or knockdown of CUL4A. Thus, we demonstrated the functional impacts and underlying mechanisms of the interaction between Aiolos and Blimp-1 in maintaining MM cell survival. We also showed that interruption of Blimp-1/Aiolos regulatory pathways contributes to lenalidomide-mediated anti-MM activity.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have proved the association of IKZF1 polymorphisms with childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In the present study, we aimed to inspect the impact of IKZF1 gene polymorphisms and childhood ALL in a sample of Iranian population who live in south east of Iran. This case-control study was done on 110 children diagnosed with ALL and 120 healthy children. The IKZF1 (rs4132601 T > G, rs11978267 A > G, rs11980379 T > C, and rs10272724 T > C) polymorphisms were determined using polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). The results showed that rs4132601 T > G polymorphism increased the risk of ALL in the codominant (OR = 2.96, 95 % CI = 1.58-5.54, p = 0.0008, TG vs TT; and OR = 2.75, 95 % CI = 1.31-5.76, p = 0.0094, GG vs TT) and dominant (OR = 2.89, 95 % CI = 1.61-5.19, p = 0.0004, TG + GG vs TT) inheritance models. On the other hand, the rs4132601 G allele increased the risk of ALL (OR = 1.86, 95 % CI = 1.28-2.96; p = 0.0011) in comparison with the T allele. We have also showed that rs11980379 T > C variant increased the risk of ALL in codominant (OR = 2.43, 95 % CI = 1.28-4.60, p = 0.0076, TC vs TT; and OR = 2.35, 95 % CI = 1.14-4.85, p = 0.0291, CC vs TT) and dominant (OR = 2.40, 95 % CI = 1.32-4.36, p = 0.0038, TC + CC vs TT) inheritance models. The rs11980379 C allele increased the risk of ALL (OR = 1.59, 95 % CI = 1.10-2.31, p = 0.0151) compared with T allele. Our study also revealed that the rs10272724 T > C polymorphism increased the risk of ALL in codominant (OR = 2.18, 95 % CI = 1.19-3.99, p = 0.0115, TC vs TT; and OR = 2.67, 95 % CI = 1.24-5.77, p = 0.0131, CC vs TT) and dominant (OR = 2.31, 95 % CI = 1.30-4.08, p = 0.0049, TC + CC vs TT) inheritance models. On the one hand, the rs11980379 C allele increased the risk of ALL (OR = 1.70, 95 % CI = 1.17-2.46, p = 0.0062) compared with T allele, while the rs11978267 A/G polymorphism was not associated with ALL risk. In conclusion, our findings confirm the impact of IKZF1 polymorphisms on childhood ALL risk in a sample of Iranian population. Further studies with larger sample sizes and different ethnicities are needed to confirm our findings.
The Ikaros transcription factor is essential for early B cell development, but its effect on mature B cells is debated. We show that Ikaros is required to limit the response of naive splenic B cells to B cell receptor signals. Ikaros deficient follicular B cells grow larger and enter cell cycle faster after anti-IgM stimulation. Unstimulated mutant B cells show deregulation of positive and negative regulators of signal transduction at the mRNA level, and constitutive phosphorylation of ERK, p38, SYK, BTK, AKT and LYN. Stimulation results in enhanced and prolonged ERK and p38 phosphorylation, followed by hyper-proliferation. Pharmacological inhibition of ERK and p38 abrogates the increased proliferative response of Ikaros deficient cells. These results suggest that Ikaros functions as a negative regulator of follicular B cell activation.
Comment in    Leukemia. 2016 Aug;30(8):1801-3.
CD4 T cells secreting IL-10 or IL-17 are frequent at mucosal sites, where their equilibrium is important for simultaneously maintaining tolerance and immunity to the resident microbiota. The mode of action of these cells, however, is as yet incompletely understood. In this study, we have combined ex vivo analysis of CD4 T cells producing IL-10 or/and IL-17 with assessment of clonal populations isolated ex vivo using a cytokine catch assay. We found that circulating CD4 T cells secreting IL-10 or/and IL-17 ex vivo include both conventional FOXP3- CD4 T cells and FOXP3+ Helios- Treg. Upon assessment of clonal populations derived from single ex vivo isolated cytokine secreting cells, we found that IL-10 or/and IL-17 secreting cells prevalently secrete one or the other cytokine depending on the type of stimulation, the time after stimulation and the presence of microbial products. Namely, IL-10 secretion by clonal cells was prevalent at early time points after TCR mediated stimulation, was independent of co-stimulation and was increased in the presence of the microbial fermentation product butyrate. In contrast, IL-17 secretion was higher at later time points after TCR mediated stimulation and in the presence of co-stimulatory signals. Taken together, these results provide insights into the mechanisms that, through modulation of cytokine secretion depending on conditions, allow IL-10 and IL-17 producing CD4 T cells to contribute to maintain tolerance to microbes locally, while retaining the ability to participate in protective immune responses at distant sites.
INTRODUCTION: IKZF1 deletions have been reported with variable frequency in B-ALL. This study was carried out to find the prevalence and profile of IKZF1 deletions and their correlation in B-ALL.METHODS: The untreated B-ALL cases were prospectively analyzed for IKZF1 deletions over a period of eleven months using multiplex ligation dependent probe amplification (MLPA). The IKZF1 deletions were classified into three functional groups-dominant negative, haploinsufficiency and others. The response to induction chemotherapy was correlated with the IKZF1 deletion status.RESULTS: The median age of 101 cases was 7 years (1-67) with 82 pediatric (<18 years) cases. Fifteen cases were positive for BCR-ABL. The IKZF1 deletions were detected in 29 (28.7%) cases; 53% BCR-ABL positive, 24% BCR-ABL negative, 47% adult and 24% pediatric cases. Out of the 29 deletions, 19 (66%) were haploinsufficiency, 8 (28%) were dominant negative and 2 others. The IKZF1 deleted cases had higher induction failure rates compared to the cases without IKZF1 deletions.CONCLUSIONS: The IKZF1 deletions were detected in 28.7% B-ALL patients. These were more common in BCR-ABL positive and adult B-ALL compared to the BCR-ABL negative and pediatric cases, respectively. The haploinsufficiency was commoner than dominant negative IKZF1 deletions. IKZF1 deletions correlated with higher induction failure.
Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are clonal disorders characterized by increased production of mature blood cells. Philadelphia chromosome-negative MPNs (Ph-MPNs) consist of polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), and primary myelofibrosis (PMF). A number of stem cell derived mutations have been identified in the past 10 years. These findings showed that JAK2V617F, as a diagnostic marker involving JAK2 exon 14 with a high frequency, is the best molecular characterization of Ph-MPNs. Somatic mutations in an endoplasmic reticulum chaperone, named calreticulin (CALR), is the second most common mutation in patients with ET and PMF after JAK2 V617F mutation. Discovery of CALR mutations led to the increased molecular diagnostic of ET and PMF up to 90%. It has been shown that JAK2V617F is not the unique event in disease pathogenesis. Some other genes' location such as TET oncogene family member 2 (TET2), additional sex combs-like 1 (ASXL1), casitas B-lineage lymphoma proto-oncogene (CBL), isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2 (IDH1/IDH2), IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1), DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A), suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS), enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), tumor protein p53 (TP53), runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and high mobility group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2) have also identified to be involved in MPNs phenotypes. Here, current molecular biology and genetic mechanisms involved in MNPs with a focus on the aforementioned factors is presented.
Adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) is an aggressive T-cell malignancy caused by human T-cell leukemia virus type 1. Because of its immunosuppressive property and resistance to treatment, patients with ATL have poor prognoses. ATL cells possess the regulatory T cell (Treg) phenotype, such as CD4 and CD25, and usually express forkhead box P3 (FOXP3). However, the mechanisms of FOXP3 expression and its association with Treg-like characteristics in ATL remain unclear. Selective demethylation of the Treg-specific demethylated region (TSDR) in the FOXP3 gene leads to stable FOXP3 expression and defines natural Tregs. Here, we focus on the functional and clinical relationship between the epigenetic pattern of the TSDR and ATL. Analysis of DNA methylation in specimens from 26 patients with ATL showed that 15 patients (58%) hypomethylated the TSDR. The FOXP3(+) cells were mainly observed in the TSDR-hypomethylated cases. The TSDR-hypomethylated ATL cells exerted more suppressive function than the TSDR-methylated ATL cells. Thus, the epigenetic analysis of the FOXP3 gene identified a distinct subtype with Treg properties in heterogeneous ATL. Furthermore, we observed that the hypomethylation of TSDR was associated with poor outcomes in ATL. These results suggest that the DNA methylation status of the TSDR is an important hallmark to define this heterogeneous disease and to predict ATL patient prognosis.
Comment in    Blood. 2016 Mar 17;127(11):1384-5.
Impaired function of the Ikaros (IKZF1) protein is associated with the development of high-risk B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). The mechanisms of Ikaros tumor suppressor activity in leukemia are unknown. Ikaros binds to the upstream regulatory elements of its target genes and regulates their transcription via chromatin remodeling. Here, we report that Ikaros represses transcription of the histone H3K4 demethylase, JARID1B (KDM5B). Transcriptional repression of JARID1B is associated with increased global levels of H3K4 trimethylation. Ikaros-mediated repression of JARID1B is dependent on the activity of the histone deacetylase, HDAC1, which binds to the upstream regulatory element of JARID1B in complex with Ikaros. In leukemia, JARID1B is overexpressed, and its inhibition results in cellular growth arrest. Ikaros-mediated repression of JARID1B in leukemia is impaired by pro-oncogenic casein kinase 2 (CK2). Inhibition of CK2 results in increased binding of the Ikaros-HDAC1 complex to the promoter of JARID1B, with increased formation of trimethylated histone H3 lysine 27 and decreased histone H3 Lys-9 acetylation. In cases of high-risk B-ALL that carry deletion of one Ikaros (IKZF1) allele, targeted inhibition of CK2 restores Ikaros binding to the JARID1B promoter and repression of JARID1B. In summary, the presented data suggest a mechanism through which Ikaros and HDAC1 regulate the epigenetic signature in leukemia: via regulation of JARID1B transcription. The presented data identify JARID1B as a novel therapeutic target in B-ALL and provide a rationale for the use of CK2 inhibitors in the treatment of high-risk B-ALL.
In human T cell development, the mechanisms that regulate cell fate decisions after TCRβ expression remain unclear. We defined the stages of T cell development that flank TCRβ expression and found distinct patterns of human T cell development. In half the subjects, T cell development progressed from the CD4(-)CD8(-) double-negative stage to the CD4(+)CD8(+) double-positive (DP) stage through an immature single-positive (ISP) CD4(+) intermediate. However, in some patients, CD4 and CD8 were expressed simultaneously and the ISP population was small. In each group of patients, CD3(-) ISP and DP thymocytes were subdivided into ISP1, ISP2, DP1, DP2, DP3, DP4, and DP5 developmental stages according to their expression of CD28, CD44, CD1a, CD7, CD45RO, and CD38. The ISP2, DP2, and DP3 thymocyte populations proliferated more robustly than ISP1 and DP1 and expressed markers consistent with TCRβ expression. After the DP3 stage, proliferation returned to baseline levels. We then analyzed protein levels of Ikaros, Helios, and Aiolos, the three Ikaros family members most abundantly expressed in human thymocytes. Ikaros and Helios expression increased transiently at the ISP2, DP2, and DP3 populations. Aiolos expression also increased at the ISP2, DP2, and DP3 stages, but its expression remained elevated throughout the DP4 and DP5 stages. In summary, we propose a model of human T cell development that reflects the asynchronous nature of TCRβ expression and we define the subpopulations of thymocytes that are highly proliferative and express Ikaros family members.
Mice with a homozygous p53 gene deletion develop thymic lymphomas by 9 wk of age. Using the sequence of the rearranged T-cell receptor gene from each clone of cells in the thymus, one can determine the number of independent transformation events. These tumors are oligoclonal, occurring at a frequency of 0.13-0.8 new cancer clones per day. By 20 wk only a few clones are detected, indicating competition among transformed cell clones. DNA sequencing of these tumors demonstrates a point mutation frequency of one per megabase and many genes that are consistently amplified or deleted in independent tumors. The tumors begin with an inherited p53 gene deletion. Next is a PTEN mutation in a stem cell or progenitor cell, before the rearrangement of the T-cell receptor. After that, the T-cell clone selects gene amplifications in cyclin D and cdk-6, and in Ikaros in the Notch pathway. Humans heterozygous for the p53 mutant gene in the germline (Li-Fraumeni syndrome) develop cancers at an early age. The penetrance of heterozygous p53 mutations is ∼93% of individuals developing tumors over their lives. At older ages the remaining 7% of this Li-Fraumeni population actually have a lower risk of developing tumors than the population at large with wild-type p53 genes.
A subpopulation (60-70%) of Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) in both mouse and man expresses the transcription factor Helios, but its role in Treg function is still unknown. We generated Treg-specific Helios-deficient mice to examine the function of Helios in Tregs. We show that the selective deletion of Helios in Tregs leads to slow, progressive systemic immune activation, hypergammaglobulinemia, and enhanced germinal center formation in the absence of organ-specific autoimmunity. Helios-deficient Treg suppressor function was normal in vitro, as well as in an in vivo inflammatory bowel disease model. However, Helios-deficient Tregs failed to control the expansion of pathogenic T cells derived from scurfy mice, failed to mediate T follicular regulatory cell function, and failed to control both T follicular helper cell and Th1 effector cell responses. In competitive settings, Helios-deficient Tregs, particularly effector Tregs, were at a disadvantage, indicating that Helios regulates effector Treg fitness. Thus, we demonstrate that Helios controls certain aspects of Treg-suppressive function, differentiation, and survival.
Author information:(1)Pediatric Blood Disease Centre, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China. xfzhu1981@126.com.
The lineage commitment of HSCs generates balanced myeloid and lymphoid populations in hematopoiesis. However, the underlying mechanisms that control this process remain largely unknown. Here, we show that insulin-insulin receptor (InsR) signaling is required for lineage commitment of multipotent progenitors (MPPs). Deletion of Insr in murine bone marrow causes skewed differentiation of MPPs to myeloid cells. mTOR acts as a downstream effector that modulates MPP differentiation. mTOR activates Stat3 by phosphorylation at serine 727 under insulin stimulation, which binds to the promoter of Ikaros, leading to its transcription priming. Our findings reveal that the insulin-InsR signaling drives MPP differentiation into lymphoid lineages in early lymphopoiesis, which is essential for maintaining a balanced immune system for an individual organism.
T-cell development is accompanied by epigenetic changes that ensure the silencing of stem cell-related genes and the activation of lymphocyte-specific programmes. How transcription factors influence these changes remains unclear. We show that the Ikaros transcription factor forms a complex with Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) in CD4(-)CD8(-) thymocytes and allows its binding to more than 500 developmentally regulated loci, including those normally activated in haematopoietic stem cells and others induced by the Notch pathway. Loss of Ikaros in CD4(-)CD8(-) cells leads to reduced histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation and ectopic gene expression. Furthermore, Ikaros binding triggers PRC2 recruitment and Ikaros interacts with PRC2 independently of the nucleosome remodelling and deacetylation complex. Our results identify Ikaros as a fundamental regulator of PRC2 function in developing T cells.
Genetic studies demonstrate that the Aiolos polymorphisms contribute to the susceptibility to autoimmune diseases. The purpose of the study was to investigate the Aiolos expression in lymphocytes and monocytes in the peripheral blood from patients with SLE and RA, and to explore the correlation between Aiolos expression in cell subsets and laboratory measurements. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 32 patients with SLE, 35 patients with RA, and 37 healthy controls were purified. Aiolos expression in PBMC subsets was examined by flow cytometry. In SLE patients, a much higher percentage of Aiolos + CD8+ T cells and Aiolos + CD14+ monocytes was found, when compared with healthy controls (p = 8.29 × 10(-5) and p = 1.01 × 10(-5), respectively). Furthermore, the percentage of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, CD19+ B cells, and CD14+ monocytes expressing Aiolos in RA patients was also determined and each found higher than that in healthy controls (p = 0.009, p = 4.11 × 10(-5), p = 0.001, and p = 1.11 × 10(-5), respectively). The percentage of Aiolos + CD8+ T cells was weakly correlated with ESR in SLE patients and RF in RA patients (r s = 0.37, p = 0.038; r s = 0.34, p = 0.044, respectively). On the other hand, the percentage of Aiolos + CD14+ monocytes was significantly correlated with multiple laboratory measurements, including ESR, creatinine, CRP, LDH, proteinuria, albumin, and ACCPA in patients (r s = 0.62, p < 0.001; r s = 0.65, p < 0.001; r s = 0.44, p = 0.010; r s = 0.42, p = 0.022; r s = 0.52, p = 0.013; r s = 0.34, p = 0.048, respectively). To our knowledge, it is the first study to demonstrate overexpression of Aiolos in PBMC subsets in SLE and RA patients. The results indicate that overexpression of Aiolos may contribute to pathogenesis of SLE and RA.
Eczema often precedes the development of asthma in a disease course called the 'atopic march'. To unravel the genes underlying this characteristic pattern of allergic disease, we conduct a multi-stage genome-wide association study on infantile eczema followed by childhood asthma in 12 populations including 2,428 cases and 17,034 controls. Here we report two novel loci specific for the combined eczema plus asthma phenotype, which are associated with allergic disease for the first time; rs9357733 located in EFHC1 on chromosome 6p12.3 (OR 1.27; P=2.1 × 10(-8)) and rs993226 between TMTC2 and SLC6A15 on chromosome 12q21.3 (OR 1.58; P=5.3 × 10(-9)). Additional susceptibility loci identified at genome-wide significance are FLG (1q21.3), IL4/KIF3A (5q31.1), AP5B1/OVOL1 (11q13.1), C11orf30/LRRC32 (11q13.5) and IKZF3 (17q21). We show that predominantly eczema loci increase the risk for the atopic march. Our findings suggest that eczema may play an important role in the development of asthma after eczema.
Increased expression of c-MYC is observed in both Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) and T-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (T-ALL). MYC binding protein 2 (MYCBP2) is a probable E3 ubiquitin ligase and its function in leukemia is unknown. IKZF1 deletion is associated with the development and poor outcome of ALL. Here, we observed significant high c-MYC expression and low MYCBP2 expression in adult ALL patients. Patients with high c-MYC expression and/or low MYCBP2 expression had higher WBC counts and a higher percentage of CD34+ or CD33+ cells, as well as splenomegaly, liver infiltration, higher BM blasts, and lower CR rate. Ikaros bound to the regulatory regions of c-MYC and MYCBP2, suppressed c-MYC and increased MYCBP2 expression in ALL cells. Expression of c-MYC mRNA was significantly higher in patients with IKZF1 deletion; conversely MYCBP2 mRNA expression was significantly lower in those patients. A CK2 inhibitor, which acts as an Ikaros activator, also suppressed c-MYC and increased MYCBP2 expression in an Ikaros (IKZF1) dependent manner in the ALL cells. In summary, our data indicated the correlation of high c-MYC expression, low MYCBP2 expression and high c-MYC plus low MYCBP2 expression with high-risk factors and proliferation markers in adult ALL patients. Our data also revealed an oncogenic role for an Ikaros/MYCBP2/c-MYC axis in adult ALL, providing a mechanism of target therapies that activate Ikaros in adult ALL.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) activation occurs frequently in human progenitor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). To identify gene alterations that cooperate with STAT5 activation to initiate leukemia, we crossed mice expressing a constitutively active form of STAT5 (Stat5b-CA) with mice in which a mutagenic Sleeping Beauty transposon (T2/Onc) was mobilized only in B cells. Stat5b-CA mice typically do not develop B-ALL (<2% penetrance); in contrast, 89% of Stat5b-CA mice in which the T2/Onc transposon had been mobilized died of B-ALL by 3 months of age. High-throughput sequencing approaches were used to identify genes frequently targeted by the T2/Onc transposon; these included Sos1 (74%), Kdm2a (35%), Jak1 (26%), Bmi1 (19%), Prdm14 or Ncoa2 (13%), Cdkn2a (10%), Ikzf1 (8%), Caap1 (6%) and Klf3 (6%). Collectively, these mutations target three major cellular processes: (i) the Janus kinase/STAT5 pathway (ii) progenitor B-cell differentiation and (iii) the CDKN2A tumor-suppressor pathway. Transposon insertions typically resulted in altered expression of these genes, as well as downstream pathways including STAT5, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk) and p38. Importantly, expression of Sos1 and Kdm2a, and activation of p38, correlated with survival, further underscoring the role these genes and associated pathways have in B-ALL.
Copyright © 2015 by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.
Comment in    Cell Death Dis. 2016;7:e2042.
The functions of different regulatory T cell (Treg) types in cancer progression are unclear. Recently, expression of the transcription factor Helios was proposed as a marker for natural (non-induced) Tregs. The present study investigated the clinical significance of Helios expression in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We enrolled 64 patients with NSCLC, of whom 45 were treated surgically and 19 received chemotherapy because of advanced/recurrent disease. Their peripheral blood mononuclear cells were examined by flow cytometry. From the 45 surgery patients, we matched 9 patients with recurrent disease with 9 stage-matched patients without recurrence (n=18), compared their specimens immunohistochemically for tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and analyzed these data against clinicopathological factors. Helios expression in Foxp3+ Tregs was 47.5±13.3% in peripheral blood and 18.1±13.4% in tumor specimens. Percentage of Helios- Tregs among CD4+ T cells were significantly higher in the cancer patients (2.4%), especially those with stage IA disease (2.6%) than in healthy donors (1.5%; P<0.001). Patients with low levels of Helios expression in Tregs among their TILs had significantly poorer survival (P=0.038). Helios- Tregs may affect immune suppression, even in early stage NSCLC; they could also be a useful prognostic biomarker in patients with NSCLC, and possibly a novel cancer immunotherapy target.
Jawless vertebrates have an alternative adaptive immune system mediated by variable lymphocyte receptors (VLRs), VLRA, VLRC and VLRB. In investigation on the adaptive immunity of hagfish, avian influenza virus hemagglutinin (H9N2-HA1) was used as a model antigen, with mRNA expression levels of VLRA, VLRC and Ikaros were up-regulated in the first week post-immunization. CD45 was up-regulated after the first week; and expression of VLRB progressively increased over the course of the trial. The transcriptional/translational activation of VLRB in blood was verified. The VLRBs cloned from these transcripts showed diversity in their leucine-rich repeats (LRRs). The production of specific VLRB increased in a time- and dose-dependent manner, detected by an anti-VLRB antibody (11G5). The plasma VLRB could distinguish H9N2-HA1 from unrelated proteins, but not from other HA1 subtypes. Together, our findings show that VLRs play a major role in the alternative adaptive immune system of hagfish by responding to specific foreign substances, such as H9N2-HA1.
BACKGROUND: Specific genes, such as BCAT1 and IKZF1, are methylated with high frequency in colorectal cancer (CRC) tissue compared to normal colon tissue specimens. Such DNA may leak into blood and be present as cell-free circulating DNA. We have evaluated the accuracy of a novel blood test for these two markers across the spectrum of benign and neoplastic conditions encountered in the colon and rectum.METHODS: Circulating DNA was extracted from plasma obtained from volunteers scheduled for colonoscopy for any reason, or for colonic surgery, at Australian and Dutch hospitals. The extracted DNA was bisulphite converted and analysed by methylation specific real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR). A specimen was deemed positive if one or more qPCR replicates were positive for either methylated BCAT1 or IKZF1 DNA. Sensitivity and specificity for CRC were estimated as the primary outcome measures.RESULTS: Plasma samples were collected from 2105 enrolled volunteers (mean age 62 years, 54 % male), including 26 additional samples taken after surgical removal of cancers. The two-marker blood test was run successfully on 2127 samples. The test identified 85 of 129 CRC cases (sensitivity of 66 %, 95 % CI: 57-74). For CRC stages I-IV, respective positivity rates were 38 % (95 % CI: 21-58), 69 % (95 % CI: 53-82), 73 % (95 % CI: 56-85) and 94 % (95 % CI: 70-100). A positive trend was observed between positivity rate and degree of invasiveness. The colonic location of cancer did not influence assay positivity rates. Gender, age, smoking and family history were not significant predictors of marker positivity. Twelve methylation-positive cancer cases with paired pre- and post-surgery plasma showed reduction in methylation signal after surgery, with complete disappearance of signal in 10 subjects. Sensitivity for advanced adenoma (n = 338) was 6 % (95 % CI: 4-9). Specificity was 94 % (95 % CI: 92-95) in all 838 non-neoplastic pathology cases and 95 % (95 % CI: 92-97) in those with no colonic pathology detected (n = 450).CONCLUSIONS: The sensitivity for cancer of this two-marker blood test justifies prospective evaluation in a true screening population relative to a proven screening test. Given the high rate of marker disappearance after cancer resection, this blood test might also be useful to monitor tumour recurrence.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ACTRN12611000318987 .
Lenalidomide acts by a novel drug mechanism-modulation of the substrate specificity of the CRL4(CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase. In multiple myeloma, lenalidomide induces the ubiquitination of IKZF1 and IKZF3 by CRL4(CRBN). Subsequent proteasomal degradation of these transcription factors kills multiple myeloma cells. In del(5q) myelodysplastic syndrome, lenalidomide induces the degradation of CK1α, which preferentially affects del(5q) cells because they express this gene at haploinsufficient levels. In the future, modulation of ubiquitin ligase function may enable us to target previously "undruggable" proteins.
Recent discoveries suggest that the critical events leading to the anti-proliferative activity of the IMiD immunomodulatory agents lenalidomide and pomalidomide in multiple myeloma (MM) cells are initiated by Cereblon-dependent ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of substrate proteins Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3). By performing kinetic analyses, we found that the downregulation or proteasomal degradation of Ikaros and Aiolos led to specific and sequential downregulation of c-Myc followed by IRF4 and subsequent growth inhibition and apoptosis. Notably, to ensure growth inhibition and cell death, sustained downregulation of Ikaros and Aiolos, c-Myc or IRF4 expression was required. In addition, we found that the half-maximal rate, rather than the final extent of Ikaros and Aiolos degradation, correlated to the relative efficacy of growth inhibition by lenalidomide or pomalidomide. Finally, we observed that all four transcription factors were elevated in primary MM samples compared with normal plasma cells. Taken together, our results suggest a functional link between Ikaros and Aiolos, and the pathological dysregulation of c-Myc and IRF4, and provide a new mechanistic understanding of the relative efficacy of lenalidomide and pomalidomide based on the kinetics of substrate degradation and downregulation of their downstream targets.
MCJ (DNAJC15) is a mitochondrial protein that regulates the mitochondrial metabolic status of macrophages and their response to inflammatory stimuli. CpG island methylation in cancer cells constitutes the only mechanism identified for the regulation of MCJ gene expression. However, whether DNA methylation or transcriptional regulation mechanisms are involved in the physiological control of this gene expression in non-tumor cells remains unknown. We now demonstrate a mechanism of regulation of MCJ expression that is independent of DNA methylation. IFNγ, a protective cytokine against cardiac inflammation during Lyme borreliosis, represses MCJ transcription in macrophages. The transcriptional regulator, Ikaros, binds to the MCJ promoter in a Casein kinase II-dependent manner, and mediates the repression of MCJ expression. These results identify the MCJ gene as a transcriptional target of IFNγ and provide evidence of the dynamic adaptation of normal tissues to changes in the environment as a way to adapt metabolically to new conditions.
Activating tyrosine kinase mutations or cytokine receptor signalling alterations have attracted attention as therapeutic targets for high-risk paediatric acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). We identified two novel kinase fusions, OFD1-JAK2 and NCOR1-LYN, in paediatric ALL patients with IKZF1 deletion, by mRNA sequencing. The patient with CSF2RA-CRLF2 also harboured IGH-EPOR. All these patients had high-risk features, such as high initial white blood cell counts and initial poor response to prednisolone. The functional analysis of these novel fusions is on-going to determine whether these genetic alterations can be targeted by drugs.
NK cells kill various cells using activating receptors, such as the natural cytotoxicity receptors (NCRs). NKp46 is a major NCR and is the only NCR expressed in mice (denoted Ncr1). Using Ncr1-deficient mice (Ncr1(gfp/pfp)) we demonstrated that Ncr1 controls various pathologies, and that in its absence Ncr1-related functions are impaired. In 2012, another Ncr1-related mouse was generated, named Noé, in which a random mutation, W32R, in position 32, impaired the Ncr1-Noé cell surface expression. Interestingly, in the Noé mice, Ncr1-dependent deficiencies were not observed. Additionally, the Noé-NK cells were hyperactivated, probably due to increased Helios expression, and the Noé mice demonstrate increased clearance of influenza and murine CMV. In contrast, in the Ncr1(gfp/pfp) mice infection with influenza was lethal and we show in the present study no difference in murine CMV infection between Ncr1(gfp/pfp) and wild-type (WT) mice. Because the foremost difference between the Noé and Ncr1(gfp/gfp) mice is the presence of a mutated Ncr1-Noé protein, we studied its properties. We show that Ncr1-Noé and various other Ncr1 mutants in position 32 can be expressed on the surface, albeit slowly and unstably, and that ligand recognition and function of the various Ncr1-Noé is similar to the WT Ncr1. We further show that the glycosylation pattern of Ncr1-Noé is aberrant, that the Ncr1-Noé proteins accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum, and that the expression of Ncr1-Noé proteins, but not WT Ncr1, leads to increased Helios expression. Thus, we suggest that the NK hyperactivated phenotype observed in the Noé mice might result from the presence of the Ncr1-Noé protein.
The cullin 4 subfamily of genes includes CUL4A and CUL4B, which share a mostly identical amino acid sequence aside from the elongated N-terminal region in CUL4B. Both act as scaffolding proteins for modular cullin RING ligase 4 (CRL4) complexes which promote the ubiquitination of a variety of substrates. CRL4 function is vital to cells as loss of both genes or their shared substrate adaptor protein DDB1 halts proliferation and eventually leads to cell death. Due to their high structural similarity, CUL4A and CUL4B share a substantial overlap in function. However, in some cases, differences in subcellular localization, spatiotemporal expression patterns and stress-inducibility preclude functional compensation. In this review, we highlight the most essential functions of the CUL4 genes in: DNA repair and replication, chromatin-remodeling, cell cycle regulation, embryogenesis, hematopoiesis and spermatogenesis. CUL4 genes are also clinically relevant as dysregulation can contribute to the onset of cancer and CRL4 complexes are often hijacked by certain viruses to promote viral replication and survival. Also, mutations in CUL4B have been implicated in a subset of patients suffering from syndromic X-linked intellectual disability (AKA mental retardation). Interestingly, the antitumor effects of immunomodulatory drugs are caused by their binding to the CRL4CRBN complex and re-directing the E3 ligase towards the Ikaros transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3. Because of their influence over key cellular functions and relevance to human disease, CRL4s are considered promising targets for therapeutic intervention.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are key players of immune regulation/dysregulation both in physiological and pathophysiological settings. Despite significant advances in understanding Treg function, there is still a pressing need to define reliable and specific markers that can distinguish different Treg subpopulations. Herein we show for the first time that markers of activated Tregs [latency associated peptide (LAP) and glycoprotein A repetitions predominant (GARP, or LRRC32)] are expressed on CD4+FoxP3- T cells expressing Helios (FoxP3-Helios+) in the steady state. Following TCR activation, GARP/LAP are up-regulated on CD4+Helios+ T cells regardless of FoxP3 expression (FoxP3+/-Helios+). We show that CD4+GARP+/-LAP+ Tregs make IL-10 immunosuppressive cytokine but not IFN-γ effector cytokine. Further characterization of FoxP3/Helios subpopulations showed that FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs proliferate in vitro significantly less than FoxP3+Helios- Tregs upon TCR stimulation. Unlike FoxP3+Helios- Tregs, FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs secrete IL-10 but not IFN-γ or IL-2, confirming they are bona fide Tregs with immunosuppressive characteristics. Taken together, Helios, and not FoxP3, is the marker of activated Tregs expressing GARP/LAP, and FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs have more suppressive characteristics, compared with FoxP3+Helios- Tregs. Our work implies that therapeutic modalities for treating autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, allergies and graft rejection should be designed to induce and/or expand FoxP3+Helios+ Tregs, while therapies against cancers or infectious diseases should avoid such expansion/induction.
Alterations of IKZF1, encoding the lymphoid transcription factor IKAROS, are a hallmark of high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), however the role of IKZF1 alterations in ALL pathogenesis is poorly understood. Here, we show that in mouse models of BCR-ABL1 leukemia, Ikzf1 and Arf alterations synergistically promote the development of an aggressive lymphoid leukemia. Ikzf1 alterations result in acquisition of stem cell-like features, including self-renewal and increased bone marrow stromal adhesion. Retinoid receptor agonists reversed this phenotype, partly by inducing expression of IKZF1, resulting in abrogation of adhesion and self-renewal, cell cycle arrest, and attenuation of proliferation without direct cytotoxicity. Retinoids potentiated the activity of dasatinib in mouse and human BCR-ABL1 ALL, providing an additional therapeutic option in IKZF1-mutated ALL.
The DNA-binding protein Ikaros is a potent tumor suppressor and hematopoietic regulator. However, the mechanisms by which Ikaros functions remain poorly understood, due in part to its atypical DNA-binding properties and partnership with the poorly understood Mi-2/NuRD complex. In this study, we analyzed five sequential stages of thymocyte development in a mouse strain containing a targeted deletion of Ikaros zinc finger 4, which exhibits a select subset of abnormalities observed in Ikaros-null mice. By examining thymopoiesis in vivo and in vitro, diverse abnormalities were observed at each developmental stage. RNA sequencing revealed that each stage is characterized by the misregulation of a limited number of genes, with a strong preference for stage-specific rather than lineage-specific genes. Strikingly, individual genes rarely exhibited Ikaros dependence at all stages. Instead, a consistent feature of the aberrantly expressed genes was a reduced magnitude of expression level change during developmental transitions. These results, combined with analyses of the interplay between Ikaros loss of function and Notch signaling, suggest that Ikaros may not be a conventional activator or repressor of defined sets of genes. Instead, a primary function may be to sharpen the dynamic range of gene expression changes during developmental transitions via atypical molecular mechanisms that remain undefined.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Center of Hematologic Diseases of Chinese PLA; Lanzhou Military Commond General Hospital, Lanzhou 730050, Gansu Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Center of Hematologic Diseases of Chinese PLA; Lanzhou Military Commond General Hospital, Lanzhou 730050, Gansu Province, China . E-mail: baihai98@tom.com.
Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) have potent anti-tumor activities in multiple myeloma (MM) and are able to enhance the cytotoxic function of natural killer (NK) cells, important effectors of the immune response against MM. Here, we show that these drugs can enhance the expression of the NKG2D and DNAM-1 activating receptor ligands MICA and PVR/CD155 in human MM cell lines and primary malignant plasma cells. Depletion of cereblon (CRBN) by shRNA interference strongly impaired upregulation of these ligands and, more interestingly, IMiDs/CRBN-mediated downregulation of the transcription factors Ikaros (IKZF1), Aiolos (IKZF3) and IRF4 was critical for these regulatory mechanisms. Indeed, shRNA knockdown of IKZF1 or IKZF3 expression was both necessary and sufficient for the upregulation of MICA and PVR/CD155 expression, suggesting that these transcription factors can repress these genes; accordingly, the direct interaction and the negative role of IKZF1 and IKZF3 proteins on MICA and PVR/CD155 promoters were demonstrated. Finally, MICA expression was enhanced in IRF4-silenced cells, indicating a specific suppressive role of this transcription factor on MICA gene expression in MM cells.Taken together, these findings describe novel molecular pathways involved in the regulation of MICA and PVR/CD155 gene expression and identify the transcription factors IKZF-1/IKZF-3 and IRF4 as repressors of these genes in MM cells.
The production of mature eosinophils (Eos) is a tightly orchestrated process with the aim to sustain normal Eos levels in tissues while also maintaining low numbers of these complex and sensitive cells in the blood. To identify regulators of homeostatic eosinophilopoiesis in mice, we took a global approach to identify genome-wide transcriptome and epigenome changes that occur during homeostasis at critical developmental stages, including Eos-lineage commitment and lineage maturation. Our analyses revealed a markedly greater number of transcriptome alterations associated with Eos maturation (1199 genes) than with Eos-lineage commitment (490 genes), highlighting the greater transcriptional investment necessary for differentiation. Eos-lineage-committed progenitors (EoPs) were noted to express high levels of granule proteins and contain granules with an ultrastructure distinct from that of mature resting Eos. Our analyses also delineated a 976-gene Eos-lineage transcriptome that included a repertoire of 56 transcription factors, many of which have never previously been associated with Eos. EoPs and Eos, but not granulocyte-monocyte progenitors or neutrophils, expressed Helios and Aiolos, members of the Ikaros family of transcription factors, which regulate gene expression via modulation of chromatin structure and DNA accessibility. Epigenetic studies revealed a distinct distribution of active chromatin marks between genes induced with lineage commitment and genes induced with cell maturation during Eos development. In addition, Aiolos and Helios binding sites were significantly enriched in genes expressed by EoPs and Eos with active chromatin, highlighting a potential novel role for Helios and Aiolos in regulating gene expression during Eos development.
Comment on    Blood. 2015 Aug 6;126(6):779-89.
Comment in    Blood. 2015 Oct 8;126(15):1735-6.
Deletions in IKZF1 are found in ~15% of children with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). There is strong evidence for the poor prognosis of IKZF1 deletions affecting exons 4-7 and exons 1-8, but evidence for the remaining 33% of cases harboring other variants of IKZF1 deletions is lacking. In an international multicenter study we analyzed the prognostic value of these rare variants in a case-control design. Each IKZF1-deleted case was matched to three IKZF1 wild-type controls based on cytogenetic subtype, treatment protocol, risk stratification arm, white blood cell count and age. Hazard ratios for the prognostic impact of rare IKZF1 deletions on event-free survival were calculated by matched pair Cox regression. Matched pair analysis for all 134 cases with rare IKZF1 deletions together revealed a poor prognosis (P<0.001) that was evident in each risk stratification arm. Rare variant types with the most unfavorable event-free survival were DEL 2-7 (P=0.03), DEL 2-8 (P=0.002) and DEL-Other (P<0.001). The prognosis of each type of rare variant was equal or worse compared with the well-known major DEL 4-7 and DEL 1-8 IKZF1 deletion variants. We therefore conclude that all variants of rare IKZF1 deletions are associated with an unfavorable prognosis in pediatric BCP-ALL.
Author information:(1)Clinical Hematology Department, Catalan Institute of Oncology at Germans Trias i Pujol Hospital, Jose Carreras Leukemia Research Institute, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Badalona, Spain.(2)Hematology Department, La Fe Hospital, Valencia, Spain.(3)Hematology Department, Hospital Clinic, August Pi i Sunyer Institute for Biomedical Research, Barcelona, Spain.(4)Hematology Department, Catalan Institute of Oncology at Duran i Reynals Hospital, Hospitalet de Llobregat, Spain.(5)Hematology Department, Catalan Institute of Oncology at Josep Trueta Hospital, Girona, Spain.(6)Hematology Department, Hospital de Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.(7)Hematology Department, Hospital Clínico, Valencia, Spain.(8)Hematology Department, Doce de Octubre Hospital, Madrid, Spain.(9)Hematology Department, Institute of Biomedical Investigation of Salamanca, Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology of Cancer, Center of Investigation of Cancer, Spanish National Research Council at University of Salamanca, Hospital Clínico Universitario, Salamanca, Spain.(10)Hematology Department, Vírgen del Rocío Hospital, Seville, Spain.(11)Hematology Department, Vall d'Hebron Hospital, Barcelona, Spain.(12)Hematology Department, Joan XXIII University Hospital, Tarragona, Spain.
20% of children suffering from high hyperdiploid acute lymphoblastic leukemia develop recurrent disease. The molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Here, we analyzed the genetic landscape of five patients at relapse, who developed recurrent disease without prior high-risk indication using whole-exome- and whole-genome-sequencing. Oncogenic mutations of RAS pathway genes (NRAS, KRAS, FLT3, n=4) and deactivating mutations of major epigenetic regulators (CREBBP, EP300, each n=2 and ARID4B, EZH2, MACROD2, MLL2, each n=1) were prominent in these cases and virtually absent in non-recurrent cases (n=6) or other pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia cases (n=18). In relapse nucleotide variations were detected in cell fate determining transcription factors (GLIS1, AKNA). Structural genomic alterations affected genes regulating B-cell development (IKZF1, PBX1, RUNX1). Eleven novel translocations involved the genes ART4, C12orf60, MACROD2, TBL1XR1, LRRN4, KIAA1467, and ELMO1/MIR1200. Typically, patients harbored only single structural variations, except for one patient who displayed massive rearrangements in the context of a germline tumor suppressor TP53 mutation and a Li-Fraumeni syndrome-like family history. Another patient harbored a germline mutation in the DNA repair factor ATM. In summary, the relapse patients of our cohort were characterized by somatic mutations affecting the RAS pathway, epigenetic and developmental programs and germline mutations in DNA repair pathways.
OBJECTIVES: Chromosomal ploidy is a major risk stratification tool for acute B-cell lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Low hypodiploidy and near-haploidy are thought to be confined to pediatric B-ALL and associated with a poor prognosis. Doubling of either a low-hypodiploid or a near-haploid clone results in an apparently high-hyperdiploid karyotype, which is often misclassified for risk.METHODS: We studied four patients with B-ALL who had chromosome genomic array testing (CGAT), along with fluorescence in situ hybridization and mutation testing.RESULTS: We identified a unique case of adult B-ALL with masked low hypodiploidy (mLH) by genomic duplication, along with a somatic deletion of the IKZF3 gene and a somatic TP53 mutation. Three cases of pediatric B-ALL with mLH, two with TP53 mutations and one untested, were also identified and compared with the adult patient.CONCLUSIONS: CGAT was critical in the genotype clarification of these cases through detection of copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity and should be considered performing for B-ALL with apparent hyperdiploidy for accurate prognostic risk stratification and treatment planning.
Immunomodulatory drugs such as thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide exhibit high responsive rates for newly identified or relapsed multiple myeloma patients. However, their mechanisms of action are not completely understood. One mechanism involves the ubiquitination and degradation of two transcription factors, IKZF1 and IKZF3. Whether there are other degradation pathways for IKZF1 in myeloma cells remains unknown. Here, we found that although IKZF1 ubiquitination was reduced, its stability was also significantly reduced in MM1.S and OPM2 cells treated with kinase inhibitors, 5,6-dichlorobenzimidazole riboside (DRB) or roscovitine. Through pharmacological inhibition and biochemical approaches we demonstrated that instead of undergoing the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, IKZF1 was degraded through apoptosis induced by kinase inhibition. This result may provide a new direction in developing therapeutic treatments for myeloma patients.
Ikaros, a zinc finger transcription factor, is an important regulator of the hematopoietic system. Several studies have suggested the role of Ikaros in the development, maturation, activation and differentiation of lymphocytes. To elucidate this mechanism, it is important to understand how this transcription factor works in the dichotomy of the hematopoietic system, a topic that remains uncertain. Herein, we investigated the role of Ikaros in the control of the lymphomyeloid phenotype of B-1 lymphocytes. We found that Ikaros, as well as its target genes, are expressed in B-1 cells,. Moreover, Ikaros positively regulates the expression of Flt3, Gfi and Il7r, while it down-regulates PU.1. During the induction of differentiation of B-1 cells toward phagocytes, Ikaros transcription was reduced. Taken together, these data pointed to the relevance of Ikaros in the maintenance of the promiscuous gene profile of B-1 cells. It could be suggested that Ikaros functions as a guardian of B-1 lymphoid pattern, and that its absence directs the differentiation of B-1 cells into phagocytes.
Children are considered more sensitive to radiation-induced cancer than adults, yet any differences in genomic alterations associated with age-at-exposure and their underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We assessed genome-wide DNA copy number and mutation of key tumor suppressor genes in T-cell lymphomas arising after weekly irradiation of female B6C3F1 mice with 1.2Gy X-rays for 4 consecutive weeks starting during infancy (1 week old), adolescence (4 weeks old) or as young adults (8 weeks old). Although T-cell lymphoma incidence was similar, loss of heterozygosity at Cdkn2a on chromosome 4 and at Ikaros on chromosome 11 was more frequent in the two older groups, while loss at the Pten locus on chromosome 19 was more frequent in the infant-irradiated group. Cdkn2a and Ikaros mutation/loss was a common feature of the young adult-irradiation group, with Ikaros frequently (50%) incurring multiple independent hits (including deletions and mutations) or suffering a single hit predicted to result in a dominant negative protein (such as those lacking exon 4, an isoform we have designated Ik12, which lacks two DNA binding zinc-finger domains). Conversely, Pten mutations were more frequent after early irradiation (60%) than after young adult-irradiation (30%). Homozygous Pten mutations occurred without DNA copy number change after irradiation starting in infancy, suggesting duplication of the mutated allele by chromosome mis-segregation or mitotic recombination. Our findings demonstrate that while deletions on chromosomes 4 and 11 affecting Cdkn2a and Ikaros are a prominent feature of young adult irradiation-induced T-cell lymphoma, tumors arising after irradiation from infancy suffer a second hit in Pten by mis-segregation or recombination. This is the first report showing an influence of age-at-exposure on genomic alterations of tumor suppressor genes and their relative involvement in radiation-induced T-cell lymphoma. These data are important for considering the risks associated with childhood exposure to radiation.
The graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HCT) is critical for its curative potential. Hwever, GVL is tightly linked to graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Among hematological malignancies, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most resistant to GVL, although the reasons for this remain poorly understood. Clinical studies have identified alterations in Ikaros (Ik) transcription factor as the major marker associated with poor outcomes in ALL. We have shown that the absence of Ik in professional host-derived hematopoietic antigen-presenting cells (APCs) exacerbates GVHD. However, whether Ik expression plays a role in resistance to GVL is not known. In this study we used multiple clinically relevant murine models of allo-HCT to explore whether Ik expression in hematopoietic APCs and/or leukemic cells is critical for increasing resistance to GVL and thus inducing relapse. We found that Ik deficiency in host APCs failed to enhance GVL despite increased GVHD severity. Mechanistic studies with bone marrow (BM) chimeras and tetramer analyses demonstrated reduced tumor-specific immunodominant (gag+) antigen responses in the [B6Ik-/-→B6] group. Loss of GVL was observed when both the leukemia cells and the host APCs were deficient in Ik. We found that calreticulin (CRT) expression in host antigen-presenting dendritic cells (DCs) of Ik-/- animals was significantly lower than in wild-type animals. Rescuing CRT expression in Ik-/- DCs improved leukemic-specific cytotoxic T cell function. Together, our data demonstrate that the absence of Ikaros in host hematopoietic cells promotes resistance to GVL despite increasing GVHD and thus provides a potential mechanism for the poor outcome of Ik-/- ALL patients.
Ikaros DNA binding factor plays critical roles in lymphocyte development. Changes in Ikaros expression levels during lymphopoiesis are controlled by redundant but also unique regulatory elements of its locus that are critical for this developmental process. We have recently shown that Ikaros binds its own locus in thymocytes in vivo. Here, we evaluated the role of an Ikaros binding site within its major lympho-myeloid promoter. We identified an Ikaros/Ets binding site within a promoter sub-region that was highly conserved in mouse and human. Deletion of this binding site increased the percentage of the reporter-expressing mouse lines, indicating that its loss provided a more permissive chromatin environment. However, once transcription was established, the lack of this site decreased transcriptional activity. These findings implicate a dual role for Ikaros/Ets1 binding on Ikzf1 expression that is exerted at least through its promoter.
Expression of the 6 and 8 dominant-negative Ikaros isoforms in pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia has been associated with a high risk of relapse and death; due to these isoforms disrupting the differentiation and proliferation of lymphoid cells. The aim of this study was to know the frequency of Ik6 and Ik8 in 113 Mexican ALL-children treated within the National Popular Medical Insurance Program to determine whether there was an association with relapse-free survival, event-free survival and overall survival, and to assess its usefulness in the initial stratification of patients. The expression of these isoforms was analyzed using specific primer sets and nested RT-PCR. The detected transcripts were classified according to the isoforms's sizes reported. A non-expected band of 300 bp from one patient was analyzed by sequencing. Twenty-six patients expressed Ik6 and/or Ik8 and one of them expressed a variant of Ik8 denominated Ik8-deleted. Although the presence of them was not statistically associated with lower relapse free survival (p = 0.432), event free survival (p = 0.667) or overall survival (p = 0.531), inferior overall survival was observed in patients that expressed these isoforms and showed high or standard risk by age and white blood-cell count at diagnosis. Of the 26 patients Ik6+ and/or Ik8+, 14 did not present adverse events; from them 6 were exclusively Ik6+ and/or Ik8+, and 8 were positive for the other Ikaros isoforms (Ik1, Ik2, Ik5, Ik3A, Ik4, Ik4A, Ik7). In the patients studied, the expression of Ik6 and Ik8 did not constitute an independent prognostic factor for relapse or death related to disease; therefore, they could not be used in the initial risk stratification.
Primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) is an aggressive type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma localized predominantly in body cavities. Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpes virus (KSHV) is the causative agent of PEL. PEL is an incurable malignancy and has extremely poor prognosis when treated with conventional chemotherapy. Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) lenalidomide and pomalidomide are Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs for the treatment of various ailments. IMiDs display pronounced antiproliferative effect against majority of PEL cell lines within their clinically achievable concentrations, by arresting cells at G0/G1 phase of cell cycle and without any induction of KSHV lytic cycle reactivation. Although microarray examination of PEL cells treated with lenalidomide revealed activation of interferon (IFN) signaling, blocking the IFN pathway did not block the anti-PEL activity of IMiDs. The anti-PEL effects of IMiDs involved cereblon-dependent suppression of IRF4 and rapid degradation of IKZF1, but not IKZF3. Small hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of MYC enhanced the cytotoxicity of IMiDs. Bromodomain (BRD) and extra-terminal domain (BET) proteins are epigenetic readers, which perform a vital role in chromatin remodeling and transcriptional regulation. BRD4, a widely expressed transcriptional coactivator, belongs to the BET family of proteins, which has been shown to co-occupy the super enhancers associated with MYC. Specific BRD4 inhibitors were developed, which suppress MYC transcriptionally. Lenalidomide displayed synergistic cytotoxicity with several structurally distinct BRD4 inhibitors (JQ-1, IBET151 and PFI-1). Furthermore, combined administration of lenalidomide and BRD4 inhibitor JQ-1 significantly increased the survival of PEL bearing NOD-SCID mice in an orthotopic xenograft model as compared with either agent alone. These results provide compelling evidence for clinical testing of IMiDs alone and in combination with BRD4 inhibitors for PEL.
There is increasing evidence from genome-wide association studies for a strong inherited genetic basis of susceptibility to acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in children, yet the effects of protein-coding variants on ALL risk have not been systematically evaluated. Here we show a missense variant in CDKN2A associated with the development of ALL at genome-wide significance (rs3731249, P=9.4 × 10(-23), odds ratio=2.23). Functional studies indicate that this hypomorphic variant results in reduced tumour suppressor function of p16(INK4A), increases the susceptibility to leukaemic transformation of haematopoietic progenitor cells, and is preferentially retained in ALL tumour cells. Resequencing the CDKN2A-CDKN2B locus in 2,407 childhood ALL cases reveals 19 additional putative functional germline variants. These results provide direct functional evidence for the influence of inherited genetic variation on ALL risk, highlighting the important and complex roles of CDKN2A-CDKN2B tumour suppressors in leukaemogenesis.
The transcription factor paired box gene 5 (Pax5) is essential for B cell development. In this study, complementation analyses in Pax5-deficient DT40 cells showed that three Pax5 isoforms Pax5A, Pax5B and Pax5BΔEx8 (another spliced isoform of Pax5B lacking exon 8) exhibit distinct roles in transcriptional regulation of six B cell development-related genes (activation-induced cytidine deaminase, Aiolos, BTB and CNC homology 2, B cell lymphoma-6, early B cell factor 1, origin binding factor-1 genes), transcriptions of which are remarkably down-regulated by Pax5-deficiency. Moreover, ectopic expression study shows that these Pax5 isoforms may regulate themselves and each other at the transcriptional level.
Synovial fluid from rheumatic joints displays a well-documented enrichment of forkhead box protein 3 (FoxP3)(+) regulatory T cells (tissue Tregs ). However, we have previously demonstrated that the mere frequency of FoxP3 expressing cells cannot predict suppressive function. Instead, extrinsic factors and the functional heterogeneity of FoxP3(+) Tregs complicate the picture. Here, we investigated FoxP3(+) Tregs from blood and synovial fluid of patients with rheumatic disease in relation to Helios expression by assessing phenotypes, proliferative potential and cytokine production by flow cytometry. Our aim was to investigate the discriminatory potential of Helios when studying FoxP3(+) Tregs in an inflammatory setting. We demonstrate that the majority of the synovial FoxP3(+) CD4(+) T cells in patients with inflammatory arthritis expressed Helios. Helios(+) FoxP3(+) Tregs displayed a classical Treg phenotype with regard to CD25 and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen (CTLA)-4 expression and a demethylated Treg -specific demethylated region (TSDR). Furthermore, Helios(+) FoxP3(+) T cells were poor producers of the effector cytokines interferon (IFN)-γ and tumour necrosis factor (TNF), as well as of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-10. The less abundant Helios(-) FoxP3(+) T cell subset was also enriched significantly in the joint, displayed a overlapping phenotype to the double-positive Treg cells with regard to CTLA-4 expression, but differed by their ability to secrete IL-10, IFN-γ and TNF upon T cell receptor (TCR) cross-linking. We also demonstrate a striking enrichment of IL-1R1 expression in synovial CD4(+) T cells that was restricted to the CD25-expressing FoxP3 population, but independent of Helios. IL-1R1 expression appears to define a tissue Treg cell phenotype together with the expression of CD25, glucocorticoid-induced TNF receptor family-related gene (GITR) and CTLA-4.
IKAROS family zinc finger 1/IKZF1 is a transcription factor important in lymphoid differentiation, and a known tumor suppressor in acute lymphoid leukemia. Recent studies suggest that IKZF1 is also involved in myeloid differentiation. To investigate whether IKZF1 deletions also play a role in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia, we screened a panel of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia samples for deletions of the IKZF1 locus using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and for mutations using direct sequencing. Three patients were identified with a single amino acid variant without change of IKZF1 length. No frame-shift mutations were found. Out of 11 patients with an IKZF1 deletion, 8 samples revealed a complete loss of chromosome 7, and 3 cases a focal deletion of 0.1-0.9Mb. These deletions included the complete IKZF1 gene (n=2) or exons 1-4 (n=1), all leading to a loss of IKZF1 function. Interestingly, differentially expressed genes in monosomy 7 cases (n=8) when compared to non-deleted samples (n=247) significantly correlated with gene expression changes in focal IKZF1-deleted cases (n=3). Genes with increased expression included genes involved in myeloid cell self-renewal and cell cycle, and a significant portion of GATA target genes and GATA factors. Together, these results suggest that loss of IKZF1 is recurrent in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia and might be a determinant of oncogenesis in acute myeloid leukemia with monosomy 7.
Eos belongs to the Ikaros family of transcription factors. It was reported to be a regulatory T cell (Treg) signature gene, to play a critical role in Treg suppressor functions, and to maintain Treg stability. We used mice with a global deficiency in Eos to re-examine the role of Eos expression in both Tregs and conventional T cells (Tconvs). Tregs from Eos-deficient (Eos(-/-)) mice developed normally, displayed a normal Treg phenotype, and exhibited normal suppressor function in vitro. Eos(-/-) Tregs were as effective as Tregs from wild-type (WT) mice in suppressing inflammation in a model of inflammatory bowel disease. Bone marrow (BM) from Eos(-/-) mice was as effective as that from WT mice in controlling T cell activation when used to reconstitute immunodeficient mice in the presence of scurfy fetal liver cells. Surprisingly, Eos was expressed in activated Tconvs and was required for IL-2 production, CD25 expression, and proliferation in vitro by CD4(+) Tconvs. Eos(-/-) mice developed more severe experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis than WT mice, displayed increased numbers of effector T cells in the periphery and CNS, and amplified IL-17 production. In conclusion, our studies are not consistent with a role for Eos in Treg development and function but demonstrate that Eos plays an important role in the activation and differentiation of Tconvs.
The differentiation of dendritic cells (DC) is affected by the aging process. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the alteration of DC development in aged mice have not been clarified. Recently, Wnt5a was reported to be an important aging-related molecule in hematopoietic systems. Here, we hypothesized that the increased expression of Wnt5a in aged hematopoietic precursors led to deficient DC differentiation in aged mice. The percentages and cell numbers of plasmacytoid DC (pDC) and CD172a(-)CD8α(+)conventional DC (cDC) were decreased in aged mice compared to young mice. Further analysis indicated that the hematopoietic precursors that gave rise to DC, including Flt3(+) lymphoid-primed multipotent precursors (LMPP), common lymphoid progenitors (CLP) and common DC precursors (CDP), were all decreased in the bone marrow of aged mice. Overexpression of Wnt5a in hematopoietic precursors strongly affected the differentiation of cDC and pDC in vivo. Treatment of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) with Wnt5a led to a significant decrease in the differentiation of the LMPP, CLP and CDP populations that was similar to the decrease observed in the bone marrow (BM) HSC of aged mice. Molecular studies demonstrated that Wnt5a negatively regulated the expression of an array of genes important for DC differentiation, including Flt3, Gfi-1, Ikaros, Bcl11a, and IL-7R, by activating the Wnt5a-Cdc42 pathway. Finally, we rejuvenated DC differentiation from aged precursors by blocking the non-canonical Wnt pathway. Our study identified the key roles of the non-canonical Wnt pathway in DC differentiation and DC aging.
The added value of IKZF1 gene deletion (IKZF1(del)) as a stratifying criterion in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) is still debated. We performed a comprehensive analysis of the impact of IKZF1(del) in a large cohort of children (n=1223) with BCR-ABL1-negative BCP-ALL treated in the EORTC-CLG trial 58951. Patients with IKZF1(del) had a lower 8-year event-free survival (EFS, 67.7% versus 86.5%; hazard ratio (HR)=2.41; 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.75-3.32; P<0.001). Importantly, despite association with high-risk features such as high minimal residual disease, IKZF1(del) remained significantly predictive in multivariate analyses. Analysis by genetic subtype showed that IKZF1(del) increased risk only in the high hyperdiploid ALLs (HR=2.57; 95% CI=1.19-5.55; P=0.013) and in 'B-other' ALLs, that is, lacking classifying genetic lesions (HR=2.22; 95% CI=1.45-3.39; P<0.001), the latter having then a dramatically low 8-year EFS (56.4; 95% CI=44.6-66.7). Among IKZF1(del)-positive patients randomized for vincristine-steroid pulses during maintenance, those receiving pulses had a significantly higher 8-year EFS (93.3; 95% CI=61.3-99.0 versus 42.1; 95% CI=20.4-62.5). Thus, IKZF1(del) retains independent prognostic significance in the context of current risk-adapted protocols, and is associated with a dismal outcome in 'B-other' ALL. Addition of vincristine-steroid pulses during maintenance may specifically benefit to IKZF1(del) patients in preventing relapses.
Transcription factors are important determinants of lineage specification during hematopoiesis. They favor recruitment of cofactors involved in epigenetic regulation, thereby defining patterns of gene expression in a development- and lineage-specific manner. Additionally, transcription factors can facilitate transcription preinitiation complex (PIC) formation and assembly on chromatin. Interestingly, a few lineage-specific transcription factors, including IKAROS, also regulate transcription elongation. IKAROS is a tumor suppressor frequently inactivated in leukemia and associated with a poor prognosis. It forms a complex with the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) complex and the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb), which is required for productive transcription elongation. It has also been reported that IKAROS interacts with factors involved in transcription termination. Here we review these and other recent findings that establish IKAROS as the first transcription factor found to act as a multifunctional regulator of the transcription cycle in hematopoietic cells.
Paediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemias (BCP ALL) with IKZF1 deletions (∆IKZF1) are associated with a poor outcome. However, there are conflicting data as to whether ∆IKZF1 is an independent risk factor if minimal residual disease (MRD) and other copy number alterations also are taken into account. We investigated 334 paediatric BCP ALL, diagnosed 1992-2013 and treated according to Nordic Society for Paediatric Haematology and Oncology ALL protocols, with known IKZF1 status based on either single nucleotide polymorphism array (N = 218) or multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (N = 116) analyses. ∆IKZF1, found in 15%, was associated with inferior 10-year probabilities of event-free (60% vs. 83%; P < 0·001) and overall survival (pOS; 73% vs. 89%; P = 0·001). Adjusting for known risk factors, including white blood cell (WBC) count and MRD, ∆IKZF1 was the strongest independent factor for relapse and death. ∆IKZF1 was present in 27% of cases with non-informative cytogenetics ('BCP-other') and a poor 10-year pOS was particularly pronounced in this group (58% vs. 90%; P < 0·001). Importantly, neither MRD nor WBC count predicted events in the ∆IKZF1-positive cases. Co-occurrence of pseudoautosomal region 1 (PAR1) deletions in Xp22.33/Yp11.32 (P2RY8-CRLF2) and ∆IKZF1 increased the risk of relapse (75% vs. 30% for cases with only ∆IKZF1; P = 0·045), indicating that BCP-other ALL with both P2RY8-CRLF2 and ∆IKZF1 constitutes a particularly high-risk group.
Cancer stem cells can escape therapeutic killing by adopting a quiescent or dormant state. The reversibility of this condition provides the potential for later recurrence or relapse, potentially many years later. We describe the genomics of a rare case of childhood BCR-ABL1-positive, B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia that relapsed, with an acute myeloblastic leukemia immunophenotype, 22 years after the initial diagnosis, sustained remission and presumed cure. The primary and relapsed leukemias shared the identical BCR-ABL1 fusion genomic sequence and two identical immunoglobulin gene rearrangements, indicating that the relapse was a derivative of the founding clone. All other mutational changes (single-nucleotide variant and copy number alterations) were distinct in diagnostic or relapse samples. These data provide unambiguous evidence that leukemia-propagating cells, most probably pre-leukemic stem cells, can remain covert and silent but potentially reactivatable for more than two decades.
Comment in    Blood. 2015 Aug 6;126(6):698-700.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a central role in counteracting inflammation and autoimmunity. A more complete understanding of cellular heterogeneity and the potential for lineage plasticity in human Treg subsets may identify markers of disease pathogenesis and facilitate the development of optimized cellular therapeutics. To better elucidate human Treg subsets, we conducted direct transcriptional profiling of CD4(+)FOXP3(+)Helios(+) thymic-derived Tregs and CD4(+)FOXP3(+)Helios(-) T cells, followed by comparison with CD4(+)FOXP3(-)Helios(-) T conventional cells. These analyses revealed that the coinhibitory receptor T cell Ig and ITIM domain (TIGIT) was highly expressed on thymic-derived Tregs. TIGIT and the costimulatory factor CD226 bind the common ligand CD155. Thus, we analyzed the cellular distribution and suppressive activity of isolated subsets of CD4(+)CD25(+)CD127(lo/-) T cells expressing CD226 and/or TIGIT. We observed TIGIT is highly expressed and upregulated on Tregs after activation and in vitro expansion, and is associated with lineage stability and suppressive capacity. Conversely, the CD226(+)TIGIT(-) population was associated with reduced Treg purity and suppressive capacity after expansion, along with a marked increase in IL-10 and effector cytokine production. These studies provide additional markers to delineate functionally distinct Treg subsets that may help direct cellular therapies and provide important phenotypic markers for assessing the role of Tregs in health and disease.
Early B cell development is orchestrated by the combined activities of the transcriptional regulators E2A, EBF1, Foxo1 and Ikaros. However, how the genome-wide binding patterns of these regulators are modulated during B lineage development remains to be determined. Here we found that in lymphoid progenitor cells, the chromatin remodeler Brg1 specified the B cell fate. In committed pro-B cells, Brg1 regulated contraction of the locus encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain (Igh) and controlled expression of the gene encoding the transcription factor c-Myc (Myc) to modulate the expression of genes encoding products that regulate ribosome biogenesis. In committed pro-B cells, Brg1 suppressed a pre-B lineage-specific pattern of gene expression. Finally, we found that Brg1 acted mechanistically to establish B cell fate and modulate cell growth by facilitating access of lineage-specific transcription factors to enhancer repertoires.
Inactivating mutations in IKZF1, the gene that encodes the transcription factor IKAROS, are recurrent in poor-prognosis human B-cell leukemias, in which these mutations co-exist with BCR-ABL1 or other genetic changes that activate similar intracellular signaling pathways. However, little is known about the mechanism(s) by which loss of IKAROS activity may co-operate with BCR-ABL1 to transform lymphoid cells. To investigate this question, we used expression of a dominant-negative isoform of IKAROS (IK6) to suppress endogenous IKAROS activity in the interleukin-3 (IL-3)-dependent mouse pro-B BA/F3 cell line and in an IL-3-independent BCR-ABL1(+) derivative. We then used intracellular phospho-flow cytometry to assess the effects of BCR-ABL1 and IK6, alone and in combination, on the signaling state of the cells before and after their stimulation with IL-3. BCR-ABL1 and IK6 each produced a constitutively activated signaling phenotype and also enhanced the signaling responses of BA/F3 cells to IL-3. These effects, however, were neither equivalent nor additive, and IK6 alone was insufficient to confer the IL-3-independent growth characteristic of BCR-ABL1(+) BA/F3 cells. In addition to its effects on lymphoid cells, IK6 also induced constitutively activated signaling in a subset of myeloid leukemia cell lines. Together, these studies indicate an ability of IK6 to enhance intracellular signaling in both lymphoid and myeloid cells, but not to synergize with BCR-ABL1 in this model system.
Author information:(1)Second Clinical Medical College of Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510282, Guangdong Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Southern Medical University Zhujiang Hospital, Guangzhou 510282, Guangdong Province, China.(3)Department of Hematology, Southern Medical University Zhujiang Hospital, Guangzhou 510282, Guangdong Province, China. E-mail: li_yuhua@yahoo.com.
BACKGROUND: Specific genes are methylated with high frequency in colorectal neoplasia, and may leak into blood. Detection of multiple methylated DNA biomarkers in blood may improve assay sensitivity for colorectal cancer (CRC) relative to a single marker. We undertook a case-control study evaluating the presence of two methylation DNA markers, BCAT1 and IKZF1, in circulation to determine if they were complementary for detection of CRC.METHODS: Methylation-specific PCR assays were developed to measure the level of methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 in DNA extracted from plasma obtained from colonoscopy-confirmed 144 healthy controls and 74 CRC cases.RESULTS: DNA yields ranged from 2 to 730 ng/mL plasma (mean 18.6ng/mL; 95% CI 11-26 ng/mL) and did not correlate with gender, age or CRC status. Methylated BCAT1 and IKZF1 DNA were detected in respectively 48 (65%) and 50 (68%) of the 74 cancers. In contrast, only 5 (4%) and 7 (5%) controls were positive for BCAT1 and IKZF1 DNA methylation, respectively. A two-gene classifier model ("either or" rule) improved segregation of CRC from controls, with 57 of 74 cancers (77%) compared to only 11 of 144 (7.6%) controls being positive for BCAT1 and/or IKZF1 DNA methylation. Increasing levels of methylated DNA were observed as CRC stage progressed.CONCLUSIONS: Detection of methylated BCAT1 and/or IKZF1 DNA in plasma may have clinical application as a novel blood test for CRC. Combining the results from the two methylation-specific PCR assays improved CRC detection with minimal change in specificity. Further validation of this two-gene blood test with a view to application in screening is now indicated.
Expansion of Ag-specific naturally occurring regulatory T cells (nTregs) is required to obtain sufficient numbers of cells for cellular immunotherapy. In this study, different allogeneic stimuli were studied for their capacity to generate functional alloantigen-specific nTregs. A highly enriched nTreg fraction (CD4(+)CD25(bright)CD127(-) T cells) was alloantigen-specific expanded using HLA-mismatched immature, mature monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs), or PBMCs. The allogeneic mature moDC-expanded nTregs were fully characterized by analysis of the demethylation status within the Treg-specific demethylation region of the FOXP3 gene and the expression of both protein and mRNA of FOXP3, HELIOS, CTLA4, and cytokines. In addition, the Ag-specific suppressive capacity of these expanded nTregs was tested. Allogeneic mature moDCs and skin-derived DCs were superior in inducing nTreg expansion compared with immature moDCs or PBMCs in an HLA-DR- and CD80/CD86-dependent way. Remarkably, the presence of exogenous IL-15 without IL-2 could facilitate optimal mature moDC-induced nTreg expansion. Allogeneic mature moDC-expanded nTregs were at low ratios (<1:320), potent suppressors of alloantigen-induced proliferation without significant suppression of completely HLA-mismatched, Ag-induced proliferation. Mature moDC-expanded nTregs were highly demethylated at the Treg-specific demethylation region within the FOXP3 gene and highly expressed of FOXP3, HELIOS, and CTLA4. A minority of the expanded nTregs produced IL-10, IL-2, IFN-γ, and TNF-α, but few IL-17-producing nTregs were found. Next-generation sequencing of mRNA of moDC-expanded nTregs revealed a strong induction of Treg-associated mRNAs. Human allogeneic mature moDCs are highly efficient stimulator cells, in the presence of exogenous IL-15, for expansion of stable alloantigen-specific nTregs with superior suppressive function.
BACKGROUND: The type I insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-IR) tyrosine kinase promotes the survival of an aggressive subtype of T-cell lymphoma by interacting with nucleophosmin-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (NPM-ALK) oncogenic protein. NPM-ALK(+) T-cell lymphoma exhibits much higher levels of IGF-IR than normal human T lymphocytes. The mechanisms underlying increased expression of IGF-IR in this lymphoma are not known. We hypothesized that upregulation of IGF-IR could be attributed to previously unrecognized defects that inherently exist in the transcriptional machinery in NPM-ALK(+) T-cell lymphoma.METHODS AND RESULTS: Screening studies showed substantially lower levels of the transcription factors Ikaros isoform 1 (Ik-1) and myeloid zinc finger 1 (MZF1) in NPM-ALK(+) T-cell lymphoma cell lines and primary tumor tissues from patients than in human T lymphocytes. A luciferase assay supported that Ik-1 and MZF1 suppress IGF-IR gene promoter. Furthermore, ChIP assay showed that these transcription factors bind specific sites located within the IGF-IR gene promoter. Forced expression of Ik-1 or MZF1 in the lymphoma cells decreased IGF-IR mRNA and protein. This decrease was associated with downregulation of pIGF-IR, and the phosphorylation of its interacting proteins IRS-1, AKT, and NPM-ALK. In addition, overexpression of Ik-1 and MZF1 decreased the viability, proliferation, migration, and anchorage-independent colony formation of the lymphoma cells.CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide novel evidence that the aberrant decreases in Ik-1 and MZF1 contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of NPM-ALK(+) T-cell lymphoma through the upregulation of IGF-IR expression. These findings could be exploited to devise new strategies to eradicate this lymphoma.
The polycistronic mir-17-92 cluster, also known as oncomir-1, was previously shown to be essential for early B lymphopoiesis. However, its role in late-stage B-cell differentiation and function remains unexplored. Here we ablate mir-17-92 in mature B cells and demonstrate that mir-17-92 is dispensable for conventional B-cell development in the periphery. Interestingly, mir-17-92-deficiency in B cells leads to enhanced homing of plasma cells to the bone marrow during T-cell-dependent immune response and selectively impairs IgG2c production. Mechanistically, mir-17-92 directly represses the expression of Sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 1 and transcription factor IKAROS, which are, respectively, important for plasma cell homing and IgG2c production. We further show that deletion of mir-17-92 could reduce IgG2c anti-DNA autoantibody production and hence mitigate immune complex glomerulonephritis in Shp1-deficient mice prone to autoimmunity. Our results identify important roles for mir-17-92 in the regulation of peripheral B-cell function.
Comment in    Blood. 2015 Jun 25;125(26):3968-9.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) promptly adapt hematopoiesis to stress conditions, such as infection and cancer, replenishing bone marrow-derived circulating populations, while preserving the stem cell reservoir. SOCS2, a feedback inhibitor of JAK-STAT pathways, is expressed in most primitive HSC and is upregulated in response to STAT5-inducing cytokines. We demonstrate that Socs2 deficiency unleashes HSC proliferation in vitro, sustaining STAT5 phosphorylation in response to IL3, thrombopoietin, and GM-CSF. In vivo, SOCS2 deficiency leads to unrestricted myelopoietic response to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and, in turn, induces exhaustion of long-term HSC function along serial bone marrow transplantations. The emerging role of SOCS2 in HSC under stress conditions prompted the investigation of malignant hematopoiesis. High levels of SOCS2 characterize unfavorable subsets of acute myeloid and lymphoblastic leukemias, such as those with MLL and BCR/ABL abnormalities, and correlate with the enrichment of genes belonging to hematopoietic and leukemic stemness signatures. In this setting, SOCS2 and its correlated genes are part of regulatory networks fronted by IKZF1/Ikaros and MEF2C, two transcriptional regulators involved in normal and leukemic hematopoiesis that have never been linked to SOCS2. Accordingly, a comparison of murine wt and Socs2(-/-) HSC gene expression in response to 5-FU revealed a significant overlap with the molecular programs that correlate with SOCS2 expression in leukemias, particularly with the oncogenic pathways and with the IKZF1/Ikaros and MEF2C-predicted targets. Lentiviral gene transduction of murine hematopoietic precursors with Mef2c, but not with Ikzf1, induces Socs2 upregulation, unveiling a direct control exerted by Mef2c over Socs2 expression.
Helios is a member of the Ikaros transcription factor family and has been reported to be a marker of thymus-derived regulatory T cells (Treg). Helios is an intracellular protein, however, and hence cannot be used as a marker to separate living Tregs. To solve this problem, we generated Helios reporter mice in which Helios+ cells selectively express Venus, a variant of green fluorescent protein. Most of the Tregs in the thymus expressed Helios, whereas its expression was varied in peripheral lymphoid organs. The Helios+ Treg-population was superior in ability to suppress both antigen-specific and TCR-stimulated T cell responses. We also showed that Helios+ Tregs inhibited the cytokine production by T cells more efficiently than Helios- Tregs. We conclude that Helios reporter mouse strain is a useful tool to study function of Helios and that Helios+ Tregs represent the highly suppressive population.
Immunomodulation is an established treatment strategy in multiple myeloma with thalidomide and its derivatives lenalidomide and pomalidomide as its FDA approved representatives. Just recently the method of action of these cereblon binding molecules was deciphered and results from large phase 3 trials confirmed the backbone function of this drug family in various combination therapies. This review details the to-date knowledge concerning mechanism of IMiD action, clinical applications and plausible escape mechanisms in which cells may become resistant/refractory to cereblon binding molecule based treatment.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified that frequent polymorphisms in ARID5B and IKZF1, two genes involved in lymphoid differentiation, increase the risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). These findings markedly modified the current field of research on the etiology of ALL. In this new context, the present exploratory study investigated the possible interactions between these at-risk alleles and the non-genetic suspected ALL risk factors that were of sufficient prevalence in the French ESCALE study: maternal use of home insecticides during pregnancy, preconception paternal smoking, and some proxies for early immune modulation, i.e. breastfeeding, history of common infections before age one year, and birth order. The analyses were based on 434 ALL cases and 442 controls of European origin, drawn from the nationwide population-based case-control study ESCALE. Information on non-genetic factors was obtained by standardized telephone interview. Interactions between rs10740055 in ARID5B or rs4132601 in IKZF1 and each of the suspected non-genetic factors were tested, with the SNPs coded as counts of minor alleles (trend variable). Statistical interactions were observed between rs4132601 and maternal insecticide use (p = 0.012), breastfeeding p = 0.017) and repeated early common infections (p = 0.0070), with allelic odds ratios (OR) which were only increased among the children not exposed to insecticides (OR = 1.8, 95%CI: 1.3, 2.4), those who had been breastfed (OR = 1.8, 95%CI: 1.3, 2.5) and those who had had repeated early common infections (OR = 2.4, 95%CI: 1.5, 3.8). The allelic ORs were close to one among children exposed to insecticides, who had not been breastfed and who had had no or few common infections. Repeated early common infections interacted with rs10740055 (p = 0.018) in the case-only design. Further studies are needed to evaluate whether these observations of a modification of the effect of the at-risk alleles by non-genetic factors are chance findings or reflect true underlying mechanisms.
There is incomplete understanding of genetic heterogeneity and clonal evolution during cancer progression. Here we use deep whole-exome sequencing to describe the clonal architecture and evolution of 20 pediatric B-acute lymphoblastic leukaemias from diagnosis to relapse. We show that clonal diversity is comparable at diagnosis and relapse and clonal survival from diagnosis to relapse is not associated with mutation burden. Six pathways were frequently mutated, with NT5C2, CREBBP, WHSC1, TP53, USH2A, NRAS and IKZF1 mutations enriched at relapse. Half of the leukaemias had multiple subclonal mutations in a pathway or gene at diagnosis, but mostly with only one, usually minor clone, surviving therapy to acquire additional mutations and become the relapse founder clone. Relapse-specific mutations in NT5C2 were found in nine cases, with mutations in four cases being in descendants of the relapse founder clone. These results provide important insights into the genetic basis of treatment failure in ALL and have implications for the early detection of mutations driving relapse.
Two distinct subsets of CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T (Treg) cells have been described based on the differential expression of Helios, a transcription factor of the Ikaros family. Efforts to understand the origin and biological roles of these Treg populations in regulating immune responses have, however, been hindered by the lack of reliable surface markers to distinguish and isolate them for subsequent functional studies. Using a single-cell cloning strategy coupled with microarray analysis of different Treg functional subsets in humans, we identify the mRNA and protein expression of TIGIT and FCRL3 as a novel surface marker combination that distinguishes Helios(+)FOXP3(+) from Helios(-)FOXP3(+) memory cells. Unlike conventional markers that are modulated on conventional T cells upon activation, we show that the TIGIT/FCRL3 combination allows reliable identification of Helios(+) Treg cells even in highly activated conditions in vitro as well as in PBMCs of autoimmune patients. We also demonstrate that the Helios(-)FOXP3(+) Treg subpopulation harbors a larger proportion of nonsuppressive clones compared with the Helios(+)FOXP3(+) cell subset, which is highly enriched for suppressive clones. Moreover, we find that Helios(-) cells are exclusively responsible for the productions of the inflammatory cytokines IFN-γ, IL-2, and IL-17 in FOXP3(+) cells ex vivo, highlighting important functional differences between Helios(+) and Helios(-) Treg cells. Thus, we identify novel surface markers for the consistent identification and isolation of Helios(+) and Helios(-) memory Treg cells in health and disease, and we further reveal functional differences between these two populations. These new markers should facilitate further elucidation of the functional roles of Helios-based Treg heterogeneity.
BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies focusing on European-ancestry populations have identified ALL risk loci on IKZF1, ARID5B, and CEBPE. To capture the impacts of these genes on ALL risk in the California Hispanic population, we comprehensively assessed the variation within the genes and further assessed the joint effects between the genetic variation and surrogates for early-life infections (the presence of older siblings, daycare attendance, and ear infections).METHODS: Genotypic data for 323 Hispanic ALL cases and 454 controls from the California Childhood Leukemia Study were generated using Illumina OmniExpress v1 platform. Logistic regression assuming a log-additive model estimated odds ratios (OR) associated with each SNP, adjusted for age, sex, and the first five principal components. In addition, we examined potential interactions between six ALL risk alleles and surrogates for early-life infections using logistic regression models that included an interaction term.RESULTS: Significant associations between genotypes at IKZF1, ARID5B, and CEBPE and ALL risk were identified: rs7780012, OR 0.50, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.35-0.71 (p = 0.004); rs7089424, OR 2.12, 95% CI 1.70-2.65 (p = 1.16 × 10(-9)); rs4982731, OR 1.69, 95% CI 1.37-2.08 (p = 2.35 × 10(-6)), respectively. Evidence for multiplicative interactions between genetic variants and surrogates for early-life infections with ALL risk was not observed.CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with findings in non-Hispanic White population, our study showed that variants within IKZF1, ARID5B, and CEBPE were associated with increased ALL risk, and the effects for ARID5B and CEBPE were most prominent in the high-hyperdiploid ALL subtype in the California Hispanic population. Results implicate the ARID5B, CEBPE, and IKZF1 genes in the pathogenesis of childhood ALL.
The IKZF1 gene at 7p12.2 codes for IKAROS (also termed IKZF1), an essential transcription factor in haematopoiesis involved primarily in lymphoid differentiation. Its importance is underlined by the fact that deregulation of IKAROS results in leukaemia in both mice and men. During recent years, constitutional as well as acquired genetic changes of IKZF1 have been associated with human disease. For example, certain germline single nucleotide polymorphisms in IKZF1 have been shown to increase the risk of some disorders and abnormal expression and somatic rearrangements, mutations and deletions of IKZF1 (ΔIKZF1) have been detected in a wide variety of human malignancies. Of immediate clinical importance is the fact that ΔIKZF1 occurs in 15% of paediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (BCP ALL) and that the presence of ΔIKZF1 is associated with an increased risk of relapse and a poor outcome; in some studies such deletions have been shown to be an independent risk factor also when minimal residual disease data are taken into account. However, cooperative genetic changes, such as ERG deletions and CRLF2 rearrangements, may modify the prognostic impact of ΔIKZF1, for better or worse. This review summarizes our current knowledge of IKZF1 abnormalities in human disease, with an emphasis on BCP ALL.
OBJECTIVE: Helios+FoxP3+CD4+ (Helios+) Treg cells are believed to be involved in the regulation of various autoimmune diseases; however, the regulatory mechanisms underlying the development of Helios+ Treg cells remain uncertain. This study was undertaken to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of Helios expression in CD4+ T cells and its roles in transforming growth factor β (TGFβ)-induced Treg cell function.METHODS: We examined the expression of Helios in CD4+ T cells in patients with rheumatoid arthritis by DNA microarray analysis before and after treatment with biologic agents. We also examined the effect of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and TGFβ on Helios expression in CD4+ T cells in humans and mice. The effect of forced expression of Helios on murine induced Treg cell function was also examined. The role of FoxP3 in the induction and function of Helios was assessed by using CD4+ T cells from FoxP3-deficient scurfy mice.RESULTS: Tocilizumab, but not tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors or abatacept, increased Helios expression in CD4+ T cells in patients with a good response. IL-6 inhibited the TGFβ-induced development of Helios+ induced Treg cells in both humans and mice. Both cell-intrinsic FoxP3 expression and TGFβ signaling were required for Helios induction in murine induced Treg cells. The forced expression of Helios enhanced the expression of various Treg cell-related molecules and the suppressive function in murine induced Treg cells. Helios-mediated enhancement of the suppressive function of induced Treg cells was obvious in FoxP3-sufficient CD4+ T cells but not in FoxP3-deficient CD4+ T cells.CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that Helios enhances induced Treg cell function in cooperation with FoxP3.
In contrast to IKZF1 deletions (ΔIKZF1), IKZF1 sequence mutations (mutIKZF1) have been reported to be rare in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia and their clinical implications are unknown. We performed targeted deep sequencing of all exons of IKZF1 in 140 pediatric cases, eight (5.7%) of which harbored a mutIKZF1. The probabilities of relapse (pRel) and event-free survival (pEFS) did not differ between cases with or without mutIKZF1, whereas pEFS was decreased and pRel increased in ΔIKZF1-positive case. Coexisting microdeletions, mutations (FLT3, JAK2, SH2B3, and SPRED1), and rearrangements (ABL1, CRLF2, JAK2, and PDGFRB) in 35 ΔIKZF1 and/or mutIKZF1-positive cases were ascertained using fluorescence in situ hybridization, single nucleotide polymorphism array, Sanger, and targeted deep sequencing analyses. The overall frequencies of copy number alterations did not differ between cases with our without ΔIKZF1/mutIKZF1. Deletions of HIST1, SH2B3, and the pseudoautosomal region (PAR1), associated with deregulation of CRLF2, were more common in ΔIKZF1-positive cases, whereas PAR1 deletions and JAK2 mutations were overrepresented in the combined ΔIKZF1/mutIKZF1 group. There was no significant impact on pRel of the deletions in ΔIKZF1-positive cases or of JAK2 mutations in cases with ΔIKZF1/mutIKZF1. In contrast, the pRel was higher (P = 0.005) in ΔIKZF1/mutIKZF1-positive cases with PAR1 deletions.
Recent genome-wide or follow-up studies conducted in European or Caucasian populations have identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) conferring increased risk to autoimmune diseases. It is unclear whether these observations can apply to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in China. An association study was performed on 395 SLE patients and 378 healthy controls recruited from the Chinese population, in which the IL12RB2 rs3790567, IKZF1 rs2366293, XKR6 rs4240671, TMEM39A rs1132200 and CSK rs34933034 polymorphisms were examined by Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Time of Flight Mass Spectrometry. The frequency of the A allele of IL12RB2 rs3790567 was lower in the cases compared with the controls (24.8% vs 30.2%, P = 0.018) and significant difference among the AA, AG and GG genotypes of rs3790567 was detected between the SLE patients and healthy controls (P = 0.020). We also found a statistically significant difference in the dominant model (GG+AG vs AA, P = 0.008). There was no correlation between the genotypes and specific sub-phenotypes in the current cohort. Associations with IKZF1 rs2366293, XKR6 rs4240671, TMEM39A rs1132200 and CSK rs34933034 were also lacking (P > 0.05). The results supported the theory that IL12RB2 is associated with SLE in the Chinese population.
This review describes the secondary cancer after radiotherapy. Secondary cancer is a great concern for cancer survivors, especially for childhood cancer survivors not only because of their intrinsic high susceptibility to radiation but also because of successful achievement of longer survival. Recent advance of molecular biology reveals unique genomic changes, which distinguish radiation-induced tumors from spontaneous or chemically induced tumors.
Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) therapies have been improved by pediatric-like approaches. However, treatment failures and relapses are common and new markers are needed to identify patients with poor prognosis in prospective trials. The p16(INK4A)/CDK4-6/pRb pathway and telomerase activity, which are implicated in cell activation and aging, were analyzed to identify new prognostic markers. Proteins of the p16(INK4A)/CDK4-6/pRb pathway and telomerase activity were analyzed in 123 adult B-cell precursor (BCP) ALL cases included in the GRAALL/GRAAPH trials. We found a significantly increased expression of p16(INK4A) in BCP-ALLs with MLL rearrangement. Telomerase activity was significantly lower in Philadelphia chromosome-negative/IKAROS-deleted (BCR-ABL1(-)/IKAROS(del)) cases compared to Philadelphia chromosome-positive (BCR-ABL1+) BCP-ALLs. In BCR-ABL1+ ALLs, high CDK4 expression, phosphorylated pRb (p-pRb) and telomerase activity were significantly associated with a shorter disease-free survival (DFS) and event-free survival (EFS). Enhanced p16(INK4A) expression was only related to a significantly shorter DFS. In vitro analyses of normal stimulated lymphocytes after short- and long-term cultures demonstrated that the observed protein variations of poor prognosis in BCR-ABL1+ ALLs may be related to cell activation but not to cell aging. For these patients, our findings argue for the development of therapeutic strategies including the addition of new lymphocyte activation inhibitors to current treatments.
BACKGROUND: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and its severe form, toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), are acute inflammatory vesiculobullous reactions of the skin and mucous membranes, including the ocular surface, oral cavity, and genitals. These reactions are very rare but are often associated with inciting drugs, infectious agents, or both.OBJECTIVE: We sought to identify susceptibility loci for cold medicine-related SJS/TEN (CM-SJS/TEN) with severe mucosal involvement (SMI).METHODS: A genome-wide association study was performed in 808 Japanese subjects (117 patients with CM-SJS/TEN with SMI and 691 healthy control subjects), and subsequent replication studies were performed in 204 other Japanese subjects (16 cases and 188 control subjects), 117 Korean subjects (27 cases and 90 control subjects), 76 Indian subjects (20 cases and 56 control subjects), and 174 Brazilian subjects (39 cases and 135 control subjects).RESULTS: In addition to the most significant susceptibility region, HLA-A, we identified IKZF1, which encodes Ikaros, as a novel susceptibility gene (meta-analysis, rs4917014 [G vs. T]; odds ratio, 0.5; P = 8.5 × 10(-11)). Furthermore, quantitative ratios of the IKZF1 alternative splicing isoforms Ik1 and Ik2 were significantly associated with rs4917014 genotypes.CONCLUSION: We identified IKZF1 as a susceptibility gene for CM-SJS/TEN with SMI not only in Japanese subjects but also in Korean and Indian subjects and showed that the Ik2/Ik1 ratio might be influenced by IKZF1 single nucleotide polymorphisms, which were significantly associated with susceptibility to CM-SJS/TEN with SMI.
Activating NOTCH1 mutations occur in ~60% of human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALLs), and mutations disrupting the transcription factor IKZF1 (IKAROS) occur in ~5% of cases. To investigate the regulatory interplay between these driver genes, we have used a novel transgenic RNA interference mouse model to produce primary T-ALLs driven by reversible Ikaros knockdown. Restoring endogenous Ikaros expression in established T-ALL in vivo acutely represses Notch1 and its oncogenic target genes including Myc, and in multiple primary leukemias causes disease regression. In contrast, leukemias expressing high levels of endogenous or engineered forms of activated intracellular Notch1 (ICN1) resembling those found in human T-ALL rapidly relapse following Ikaros restoration, indicating that ICN1 functionally antagonizes Ikaros in established disease. Furthermore, we find that IKAROS mRNA expression is significantly reduced in a cohort of primary human T-ALL patient samples with activating NOTCH1/FBXW7 mutations, but is upregulated upon acute inhibition of aberrant NOTCH signaling across a panel of human T-ALL cell lines. These results demonstrate for the first time that aberrant NOTCH activity compromises IKAROS function in mouse and human T-ALL, and provide a potential explanation for the relative infrequency of IKAROS gene mutations in human T-ALL.
BACKGROUND: Maintenance of T cell immune homeostasis is critical for adequate anti-tumor immunity. The transcription factor Ikaros is essential for lymphocyte development including T cells. Alterations in Ikaros expression occur in blood malignancies in humans and mice. In this study, we investigated the role of Ikaros in regulating T cell immune balance in pancreatic cancer mouse models.METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using our Panc02 tumor-bearing (TB) mouse model, western blot analysis revealed a reduction in Ikaros proteins while qRT-PCR showed no differences in Ikaros mRNA levels in TB splenocytes compared to control. Treatment of naïve splenocytes with the proteasomal inhibitor, MG132, stabilized Ikaros expression and prevented Ikaros downregulation by Panc02 cells, in vitro. Western blot analyses showed a reduction in protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) and protein kinase CK2 expression in TB splenocytes while CK2 activity was increased. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed altered punctate staining of Ikaros in TB splenocytes. Flow cytometry revealed a significant decrease in effector CD4+ and CD8+ T cell percentages but increased CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells in TB splenocytes. Similar alterations in T cell percentages, as well as reduced Ikaros and CK2 but not PP1 expression, were observed in a transgenic, triple mutant (TrM) pancreatic cancer model. Ikaros expression was also reduced in enriched TB CD3+ T cells. MG132 treatment of naïve CD3+ T cells stabilized Ikaros expression in the presence of Panc02 cells. Western blots showed reduced PP1 and CK2 expression in TB CD3+ T cells.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The results of this study suggest that the pancreatic tumor microenvironment may cause proteasomal degradation of Ikaros, possibly via dysregulation of PP1 and CK2 expression and activity, respectively. This loss of Ikaros expression may contribute to an imbalance in T cell percentages. Ikaros may potentially be a therapeutic target to restore T cell homeostasis in pancreatic cancer hosts, which may be critical for effective anti-tumor immunity.
Cereblon was identified as a direct target of thalidomide by Prof. H. Handa, and this pioneering work triggered active research on IMiDs (immunomodulatory drugs), which include thalidomide-derivatives, such as lenalidomide and pomalidomide. These small molecules have been shown to bind to cereblon (CRBN) to modulate its activity as a substrate receptor. In addition, structural analyses on CRBN have revealed unique actions of these small agents, by which degradation of transcription factors is controlled in a specific and unique way. I summarize recent progress on CRBN-CRLA ubiquitin ligase and IMiDs, focusing on the therapeutic application of these drugs for treatment of multiple myeloma.
Lenalidomide and its analogs, thalidomide and pomalidomide, specifically inhibit growth of mature B-cell lymphomas, including multiple myeloma, and induce interleukin-2 (IL-2) release from T cells. We recently found that this results from activation of the CRBN-CRL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase to degrade the lymphoid transcription factors IKZF1 (Ikaros) and IKZF3 (Aiolos).
The aim of the present study was to elucidate the molecular mechanism of Aiolos in the regulation of B‑cell leukaemia. A lentiviral system was used for overexpression of the Aiolos gene in Nalm‑6 cells to determine the effects of Aiolos on proliferation, apoptosis and the cell cycle. The expression and activation of phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN) and Akt were also investigated. Upregulation of Aiolos inhibited cell growth and arrested an increased number of Nalm‑6 cells at the G0/G1 phase. The apoptotic cell quantities were also significantly lower in the Aiolos‑transfected Nalm‑6 cells. In addition, Aiolos overexpression downregulated PTEN, but increased the expression and phosphorylation of Akt in the Nalm‑6 cells. The Akt inhibitor, Akti‑1/2, reduced the percentage of viable Aiolos‑overexpressed Nalm‑6 cells, however, it had no effect on cell cycle arrest or proliferation. Aiolos upregulation in the Nalm‑6 cells inhibited cell proliferation, suppressed apoptosis and arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase. Aiolos improved the survival of Nalm‑6 cells via PTEN‑ and Akt‑dependent processes.
Erratum in    J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2015 Dec;136(6):1710.
Thymopentin is a group of biologically active peptide secreted mainly by the epithelial cells of thymic cortex and medulla. Whether it promotes T cells production from human embryonic stem cells(hESCs) in vitro remains an elusive issue. In the present study, we develop a novel strategy that enhances T-cell lineage differentiation of hESCs in collagen matrix culture by sequential cytokine cocktails treatment combined with thymopentin stimulation. We observed that approximately 30.75% cells expressed CD34 on day 14 of the cultures and expressed the surface markers of erythroid, lymphoid and myeloid lineages. The results of colony assays and gene expressions by RT-PCR analysis also demonstrated that hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) derived from hESCs were capable of multi-lineage differentiation. Further study revealed that culturing with thymopentin treatment, the CD34(+)CD45RA(+)CD7(+) cells sorted from HPCs expressed T-cell-related genes, IKAROS, DNTT, TCRγ and TCRβ, and T-cell surface markers, CD3, cytoplasmic CD3, CD5, CD27, TCRγδ, CD4 and CD8. The differentiated cells produced the cytokines including IFN-γ, IL-2 and TNF-α in response to stimulation, providing the evidence for T-cell function of these cells. In conclusion, thymopentin enhances T-cell lineage differentiation from hESCs in vitro by mimicking thymus peptide environment in vivo.
While much progress has been made in recent years toward elucidating the transcription factor codes controlling how neural progenitor cells generate the various glial and neuronal cell types in a particular spatial domain, much less is known about how these progenitors alter their output over time. In the past years, work in the developing mouse retina has provided evidence that a transcriptional cascade similar to the one used in Drosophila neuroblasts might control progenitor temporal identity in vertebrates. The zinc finger transcription factor Ikzf1 (Ikaros), an ortholog of Drosophila hunchback, was reported to confer early temporal identity in retinal progenitors and, more recently, the ortholog of Drosophila castor, Casz1, was found to function as a mid/late temporal identity factor that is negatively regulated by Ikzf1. The molecular mechanisms by which these temporal identity factors function in retinal progenitors, however, remain unknown. Here we briefly review previous work on the vertebrate temporal identity factors in the retina, and propose a model by which they might operate.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive neoplastic disorder of immature hematopoietic precursors committed to T-cell lineage. T-ALL accounts for ~15% of pediatric ALL cases and is prone to early relapse. With new and improved treatment protocols, the prognosis of T-ALL has improved particularly in children; however, the outcome of relapsed T-ALL cases remains poor. The AIOLOS gene is necessary to control lymphocyte differentiation and may be a potential target of T-ALL therapy. In the present study, Jurkat cells were divided into three groups: untransfected (UT) control, lentiviral vector control (Lenti-Mock) and AIOLOS-overexpressing (Lenti-AIOLOS) groups. Lenti-AIOLOS Jurkat cells were constructed by lentiviral transduction; cell cycle analysis, apoptosis and cytotoxicity assays were then performed to evaluate the effects of AIOLOS on cell cycle distribution, apoptosis and cell chemosensitivity to etoposide of Jurkat cells in vitro. Moreover, the expression levels of genes associated with apoptosis and cell cycle were investigated by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Results showed that the percentage of Jurkat cells in the G0/G1 phase increased from 71.5 (UT) to 85.4% (Lenti-AIOLOS; P<0.05), yet the percentage of cells in the S-phase decreased from 15.1 (UT) to 11.6% (Lenti‑AIOLOS; P<0.05). The percentage of total apoptotic cells was significantly increased in the AIOLOS-transfected Jurkat cells (21.93%) compared with this percentage in the Lenti-Mock (13.35%) or the UT group (13.30%; P<0.05). Consistent with these results, AIOLOS overexpression induced P21 and P27 upregulation and CCND3 and SKP2 downregulation. Furthermore, AIOLOS overexpression synergistically increased the cytotoxic effects of etoposide and downregulated NF-κB expression. Our findings revealed that lentivirus-mediated AIOLOS overexpression in Jurkat cells induced cell apoptosis, arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase, and synergistically increased the sensitivity of Jurkat cells to etoposide by inhibiting NF-κB activity.
Within the population of regulatory T cells (Tregs) natural Tregs (nTregs) and inducible Tregs (iTregs) can be distinguished. Although information about Tregs in swine exists, porcine iTregs were not under investigation yet. In this study, Foxp3(+) iTregs were generated from CD4(+)Foxp3(-) T cells by in vitro stimulation in the presence of IL-2 and TGF-β. In comparison to ex vivo Tregs these iTregs had a similar suppressive capacity on the proliferation of CD3-stimulated PBMC, caused higher levels of IL-10 in PBMC/Treg co-cultures, but did not suppress IFN-γ levels. The Ikaros family member Helios is currently discussed to distinguish iTregs and nTregs or to serve as an activation marker of Tregs. In this study, we demonstrate the cross-reactivity of an anti-mouse/human Helios mAb with porcine Helios. Flow cytometric analyses with this antibody showed that porcine iTregs do not express Helios after in vitro iTreg induction. Nevertheless, thymic Foxp3(+) T cells, which arise at the CD4/CD8α single-positive stage of T-cell development and are defined as nTregs, entirely expressed Helios. Although this might suggest the suitability of Helios as an nTreg-iTreg differentiation marker we also found that Helios(-) Tregs displayed a phenotype of naive CD4(+) T cells in vivo. Since iTregs are by definition activated/differentiated Tregs, this finding precludes that all Helios(-) Tregs are iTregs and thus also the use of Helios as a selection marker for porcine nTregs. Furthermore, Helios(+) Tregs displayed a more differentiated phenotype indicating that Helios might rather serve as a Treg activation/differentiation marker.
EPAS1 involves in the hypoxic response and is suggested to be responsible for the genetic adaptation of high-altitude hypoxia in Tibetans. However, the detailed molecular mechanism remains unknown. In this study, a single nucleotide polymorphism rs56721780:G>C and an insertion/deletion (indel) polymorphism -742 indel in the promoter region showed divergence between Tibetans and non-Tibetan lowlanders. rs56721780:G>C regulated the transcription of EPAS1 by IKAROS family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1), which was identified as a new transcriptional repressor for EPAS1 gene. It demonstrated that the C allele of rs56721780:G>C decreased the binding of IKZF1, leading to the attenuated transcriptional repression of EPAS1 gene. The insertion at -742 indel provided a new binding site for Sp1 and was related to the activation of EPAS1 promoter. Further functional analysis revealed that lysyl oxidase (LOX) gene, which was reported to be responsible for extracellular matrix protein cross-linking of amnion previously, was a direct target of EPAS1. The CC genotype at rs56721780:G>C and the insertion genotype at -742 indel were found associated with higher EPAS1 and LOX expression levels in amnion, as well as higher birth weight of Tibetan newborns, suggesting that EPAS1 gene might play important roles in the development of amnion, fetus growth and high-altitude adaptation of Tibetans.
We investigated the prognostic relevance of IKZF1 deletions in 118 adult Ph-positive ALL patients who had minimal residual disease (MRD) data under a uniform treatment of allo-SCT following first-line imatinib-based chemotherapy. IKZF1 deletions were identified in 93 patients (78.8%). IKZF1-deleted patients had a lower proportion of early-stable molecular responders compared with wild-type patients (28.0 vs 56.0%, P=0.028). After a median follow-up of 72 months, IKZF1-deleted patients had a trend for higher cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) (38.0 vs 13.3%, P=0.052), particularly in a subgroup of early-stable molecular responders (n=40; 21.4 vs 0%, P=0.088), but comparable disease-free survival to wild-type patients. Patients with biallelic-null deletions showed higher CIR (74.6 vs 13.3%, P=0.003) and lower disease-free survival (20.0 vs 67.5%, P=0.022) than wild-type patients. In multivariate analysis, MRD kinetics were closely related to outcomes, while neither IKZF1 deletions nor their functional subtypes retained an independent statistical power. Within the limitation of sample size, however, considering both the negative impact of IKZF1 deletions on MRD kinetics and a trend for relationship between IKZF1 deletions and relapse in early-stable molecular responders, IKZF1 deletions may have a potentially additive effect on unfavorable prognosis in a specific MRD-based subgroup of adult Ph-positive ALL transplants.
Author information:(1)Department of Vaccination and Immune Protection, National Institute for Health and Welfare, 00271 Helsinki, Finland;(2)Department of Vaccination and Immune Protection, National Institute for Health and Welfare, 00271 Helsinki, Finland; Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Central Hospital, 00281 Helsinki, Finland;(3)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Central Hospital, 00281 Helsinki, Finland;(4)Department of Pediatrics, Medical Research Center, Oulu University Hospital and University of Oulu, 90014 Oulu, Finland;(5)Department of Pediatrics, University of Turku, 20520 Turku, Finland;(6)Immunogenetics Laboratory, University of Turku, 20520 Turku, Finland; Department of Clinical Microbiology, University of Eastern Finland, 70211 Kuopio, Finland;(7)Department of Pediatrics, University of Tartu and Children's Clinic of Tartu University Hospital, Tartu 51014, Estonia;(8)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Central Hospital, 00281 Helsinki, Finland; Folkhälsan Research Center, 00290 Helsinki, Finland; Diabetes and Obesity Research Program, University of Helsinki, 00290 Helsinki, Finland; Department of Pediatrics, Tampere University Hospital, 33521 Tampere, Finland; and.(9)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Central Hospital, 00281 Helsinki, Finland; Respiratory, Inflammatory and Autoimmune Diseases, Innovative Medicine, AstraZeneca, 43183 Mölndal, Sweden outi.vaarala@helsinki.fi.
IKAROS is a critical regulator of hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is required for proper hematopoiesis. In collaboration with the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase (NuRD) complex, it promotes gene repression and activation. It remains to be clarified how IKAROS can support transcription activation while being associated with the HDAC-containing complex NuRD. IKAROS also binds to the Positive-Transcription Elongation Factor b (P-TEFb) at gene promoters. Here, we demonstrate that NuRD and P-TEFb are assembled in a complex that can be recruited to specific genes by IKAROS. The expression level of IKAROS influences the recruitment of the NuRD-P-TEFb complex to gene regulatory regions and facilitates transcription elongation by transferring the Protein Phosphatase 1α (PP1α), an IKAROS-binding protein and P-TEFb activator, to CDK9. We show that an IKAROS mutant that is unable to bind PP1α cannot sustain gene expression and impedes normal differentiation of Ik(NULL) hematopoietic progenitors. Finally, the knock-down of the NuRD subunit Mi2 reveals that the occupancy of the NuRD complex at transcribed regions of genes favors the relief of POL II promoter-proximal pausing and thereby, promotes transcription elongation.
Regulatory (Treg) T cells play essential roles in the maintenance of allogeneic pregnancy in mice and humans. Recent data show that Foxp3 expression occurs in both immuno-suppressive Treg and -nonsuppressive effector T (Teff) cells upon activation in humans. Samstein et al. (2012) reported that inducible Treg (iTreg) cells enforce maternal-fetal tolerance in placental mammals. Therefore, we should reanalyze which types of Treg cell play an important role in the maintenance of allogeneic pregnancy. In this study, we studied the frequencies of naïve Treg cells, effector Treg cells, Foxp3(+) Teff cells, Helios(+) naturally occurring Treg (nTreg) cells, and Helios(-) iTreg cells using flow cytometry. The frequencies of effector Treg cells and Foxp3(+) Teff cells among CD4(+)Foxp3(+) cells in the decidua of miscarriage cases with a normal embryo karyotype (n=8) were significantly lower (P=0.0105) and significantly higher (P=0.0258) than those in normally progressing pregnancies (n=11), respectively. However, these frequencies in miscarriages with an abnormal embryo karyotype (n=15) were similar to those in normally progressing pregnancies. The frequencies of these cell populations in the three groups were unchanged in peripheral blood; on the other hand, most of the effector Treg cells in the decidua were Helios(+) nTreg cells and these frequencies were significantly higher than those in peripheral blood, while those among effector Treg and naïve Treg cells in the decidua and peripheral blood were similar among the three groups. These data suggest that decreased Helios(+) effector nTreg might play an important role in the maintenance of pregnancy in humans.
Germline deletion of the p53 gene in mice gives rise to spontaneous thymic (T-cell) lymphomas. In this study, the p53 knockout mouse was employed as a model to study the mutational evolution of tumorigenesis. The clonality of the T-cell repertoire from p53 knockout and wild-type thymic cells was analyzed at various ages employing TCRβ sequencing. These data demonstrate that p53 knockout thymic lymphomas arose in an oligoclonal fashion, with tumors evolving dominant clones over time. Exon sequencing of tumor DNA revealed that all of the independently derived oligoclonal mouse tumors had a deletion in the Pten gene prior to the formation of the TCRβ rearrangement, produced early in development. This was followed in each independent clone of the thymic lymphoma by the amplification or overexpression of cyclin Ds and Cdk6. Alterations in the expression of Ikaros were common and blocked further development of CD-4/CD-8 T cells. While the frequency of point mutations in the genome of these lymphomas was one per megabase, there were a tremendous number of copy number variations producing the tumors' driver mutations. The initial inherited loss of p53 functions appeared to delineate an order of genetic alterations selected for during the evolution of these thymic lymphomas.
IL4I1 encodes an L-phenylalanine oxidase that inhibits T-cell proliferation. It has been recently reported that IL4I1 is expressed in TH17 cells as part of a mechanism that limits their pathogenicity. We have previously identified a population of human FOXP3(+) Treg cells that secrete IL-17 ex vivo; here, we addressed the expression of IL4I1 in that Treg-cell population. We found that in ex vivo isolated circulating Treg cells, IL4I1 expression is induced by activation. Moreover, IL4I1 expression is restricted to cells that do not express Helios, a transcription factor that characterizes natural Treg cells, but that express Aiolos, which is involved in the differentiation of TH17 and induced Treg cells. We also showed that conversion of Treg cells under inflammatory conditions increases IL4I1 expression, likely as part of a regulatory loop that attempts to limit the pathogenicity resulting from their conversion into TH17. The specific expression of IL4I1 in TH17 and iTreg cells may provide insights into approaches that aim at modulating these populations in different pathological conditions involving inflammation-mediated immunosuppression.
DOI: 10.1038/leusup.2014.15PMCID: PMC4851286PMID: 27175270
Forkhead box protein 3 (FoxP3)(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs ) are important not only in regulating the development of autoimmune conditions, but also in chronic infectious diseases. Given their cardinal function in suppressing immune activation, research has focused upon whether they play a detrimental role in chronic infections, particularly HIV. While the role of Tregs in HIV has been investigated intensively, it remains an unresolved topic. However, it is generally accepted that Tregs are susceptible to HIV infection and are preferentially preserved over conventional CD4(+) T cells. It is unknown whether the peripheral-induced or the thymic-derived Tregs are more susceptible to HIV cytotoxicity. It has been recognized that Tregs can be segregated into two subsets based on Helios expression, with the vast majority being Helios(+) . This study examines the impact of HIV infection on total Tregs and their Helios subsets in a perinatal-acquired HIV-infected paediatric population. The finding indicates a selective expansion or survival of Tregs in association with CD4 depletion and increased viraemia. The Helios(+) and Helios(-) subsets within Tregs appear to be equally affected. However, the Helios(+) Tregs seem to be more preserved in patients with low CD4(+)  ≤ 25% and detectable plasma HIV RNA >20 copies/ml. In this group, the frequencies of Tregs are increased, but their numbers appear insufficient to restrain immune activation. In conclusion, our findings suggest that both Helios subsets of Tregs are susceptible to HIV infection and are preferentially preserved compared to conventional CD4(+) T cells.
OBJECTIVE: Two common polymorphisms in the IKZF1 gene (rs4132601 and rs11978267 variants) have been reported to be associated with childhood acute leukemia (AL) risk, however the results were inconsistent. Here, we conducted a meta-analysis to generate large-scale evidence on whether IKZF1 variants are risk factors for childhood AL.METHODS: The PubMed, Embase, EBSCO, and Web of Science were searched up to June 2, 2014 for studies on the association of IKZF1 polymorphisms with childhood AL risk. Data were extracted and the odd ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were calculated by a fixed-effects or random-effects model. Subgroup analysis by ethnicity and leukemia subtype, sensitivity and cumulative meta-analyses were performed. Moreover, publication bias was assessed by Begg's and Egger's tests.RESULTS: In total, 33 case control studies were finally included in this meta-analysis. For rs4132601 polymorphism, significantly increased AL risk was observed in all genetic models (the association was still significant when the p value was Bonferroni adjusted to 0.025). In the subgroup analysis by tumor type, statistical association was observed in B-cell precursor ALL (BCP-ALL). Additionally, when stratified by ethnicity, significantly increased AL risk was only observed in European subgroup, but not among African or mixed population subgroups. Finally, similar results were found for rs11978267 polymorphism.CONCLUSION: In summary, this meta-analysis provides evidence that rs4132601 and rs11978267 polymorphisms in the IKZF1 gene might contribute to the occurrence of BCP-ALL, especially in European populations. Moreover, further studies with large sample size are required to clarify possible roles of IKZF1 variants in other ethnic groups (e.g., Asians and Africans).
Disrupted IKAROS activity is a recurrent feature of some human leukemias, but effects on normal human hematopoietic cells are largely unknown. Here, we used lentivirally mediated expression of a dominant-negative isoform of IKAROS (IK6) to block normal IKAROS activity in primitive human cord blood cells and their progeny. This produced a marked (10-fold) increase in serially transplantable multipotent IK6(+) cells as well as increased outputs of normally differentiating B cells and granulocytes in transplanted immunodeficient mice, without producing leukemia. Accompanying T/natural killer (NK) cell outputs were unaltered, and erythroid and platelet production was reduced. Mechanistically, IK6 specifically increased human granulopoietic progenitor sensitivity to two growth factors and activated CREB and its targets (c-FOS and Cyclin B1). In more primitive human cells, IK6 prematurely initiated a B cell transcriptional program without affecting the hematopoietic stem cell-associated gene expression profile. Some of these effects were species specific, thus identifying novel roles of IKAROS in regulating normal human hematopoietic cells.
To identify molecular targets that modify sensitivity to lenalidomide, we measured proliferation in multiple myeloma (MM) cells transfected with 27 968 small interfering RNAs in the presence of increasing concentrations of drug and identified 63 genes that enhance activity of lenalidomide upon silencing. Ribosomal protein S6 kinase (RPS6KA3 or RSK2) was the most potent sensitizer. Other notable gene targets included 5 RAB family members, 3 potassium channel proteins, and 2 peroxisome family members. Single genes of interest included I-κ-B kinase-α (CHUK), and a phosphorylation dependent transcription factor (CREB1), which associate with RSK2 to regulate several signaling pathways. RSK2 knockdown induced cytotoxicity across a panel of MM cell lines and consistently increased sensitivity to lenalidomide. Accordingly, 3 small molecular inhibitors of RSK2 demonstrated synergy with lenalidomide cytotoxicity in MM cells even in the presence of stromal contact. Both RSK2 knockdown and small molecule inhibition downregulate interferon regulatory factor 4 and MYC, and provides an explanation for the synergy between lenalidomide and RSK2 inhibition. Interestingly, RSK2 inhibition also sensitized MM cells to bortezomib, melphalan, and dexamethasone, but did not downregulate Ikaros or influence lenalidomide-mediated downregulation of tumor necrosis factor-α or increase lenalidomide-induced IL-2 upregulation. In summary, inhibition of RSK2 may prove a broadly useful adjunct to MM therapy.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), an autoimmune disease, develops when immunologic self-tolerance fails. Treg cells are a subset of CD4(+) T cells that maintain self-tolerance by suppressing autoreactive lymphocytes. Defects in Treg cells are therefore considered to be an aspect of SLE pathogenesis. Nevertheless, reports on the numbers and function of Treg cells in SLE are contradictory and the definitive role of Treg cells in SLE remains unclear. In this review, we summarize findings from murine models and ex vivo experiments, which provide insights into the mechanisms that result in the breakdown of tolerance. We also include recent findings about Treg-cell subsets and their markers in human SLE. The identification of unique markers to identify bona fide Treg cells, as well as therapies to reconstitute the balance between Treg cells and autoreactive T cells in SLE, are the future challenges for SLE research.
The role of hyperactive RAS signaling is well established in myeloid malignancies but less clear in T-cell malignancies. The Kras2(LSL)Mx1-Cre (KM) mouse model expresses endogenous KRAS(G12D) in hematopoietic cells and is widely used to study mechanisms and treatment of myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN). The model displays an intriguing shift from MPN to acute T-cell leukemia (T-ALL) after transplantation to wild-type mice, but the mechanisms underlying this lineage shift is unknown. Here, we show that KRAS(G12D) increases proliferation of both myeloid and T-cell progenitors, but whereas myeloid cells differentiate, T-cell differentiation is inhibited at early stages. Secondary mutations in the expanded pool of T-cell progenitors accompany T-ALL development, and our results indicate that the shift from myeloid to T-lymphoid malignancy after transplantation is explained by the increased likelihood for secondary mutations when the tumor lifespan is increased. We demonstrate that tumor lifespan increases after transplantation because primary KM mice die rapidly, not from MPN, but from KRAS(G12D) expression in nonhematopoietic cells, which causes intestinal bleeding and severe anemia. We also identify loss of the wild-type KRAS allele as a secondary mutation in all T-ALL cells and provide evidence that wild-type KRAS acts as a tumor suppressor in the T-cell lineage in mice.
Without effective therapy, chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CP-CML) evolves into an acute leukemia (blast crisis [BC]) that displays either myeloid or B-lymphoid characteristics. This transition is often preceded by a clinically recognized, but biologically poorly characterized, accelerated phase (AP). Here, we report that IKAROS protein is absent or reduced in bone marrow blasts from most CML patients with advanced myeloid disease (AP or BC). This contrasts with primitive CP-CML cells and BCR-ABL1-negative acute myeloid leukemia blasts, which express readily detectable IKAROS. To investigate whether loss of IKAROS contributes to myeloid disease progression in CP-CML, we examined the effects of forced expression of a dominant-negative isoform of IKAROS (IK6) in CP-CML patients' CD34(+) cells. We confirmed that IK6 disrupts IKAROS activity in transduced CP-CML cells and showed that it confers on them features of AP-CML, including a prolonged increased output in vitro and in xenografted mice of primitive cells with an enhanced ability to differentiate into basophils. Expression of IK6 in CD34(+) CP-CML cells also led to activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 and transcriptional repression of its negative regulators. These findings implicate loss of IKAROS as a frequent step and potential diagnostic harbinger of progressive myeloid disease in CML patients.
To identify potential targets for the early treatment and prevention of gastric cancer, microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles of precancerous lesions of gastric cancer were investigated. The miRNA microarray dataset GSE24839 was downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and included 10 Helicobacter pylori-related gastritis samples and 10 gastric intestinal metaplasia samples. Differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs) were screened using the Student t-test; P < 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant. Co-expression networks of total miRNAs and DEMs were constructed based on the Pearson correlation coefficient for the two diseases. Target genes of the DEMs were retrieved using miRecords and pathway-enrichment analysis was performed using a hypergeometric test. A total of 20 DEMs were obtained for H. pylori-related gastritis and gastric intestinal metaplasia samples, including 12 up-regulated and 8 down-regulated miRNAs. The identified DEMs appear to play key roles in gastric cancer, as the average degree of the DEM sub-network was higher than that of the total miRNA co-expression network. Furthermore, target genes for 6 DEMs (hsa-miR-106b, hsa-miR-193a-3p, hsa-miR-204, hsa-miR-30e, hsa-miR-519d, and hsa-miR-524-5p) are in Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways, including signal transduction, cell growth and death, and transport and catabolism. Among the target genes, 5 (RAB22A, SOX4, IKZF2, PLAG1, and BTBD7) were of interest because they can be simultaneously regulated by several DEMs. These findings suggest that these genes may be targets for modulating gastric cancer progression.
BACKGROUND: Various studies have reported that IKZF1 deletion (IKZF1-d) is a poor prognostic factor for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients, however they do not agree on the level of significance for this deletion.OBJECTIVE: To provide a quantitative assessment of this correlation, an updated meta-analysis of cohort studies was performed to derive a more precise estimation of the prognostic significance of IKZF1-d.METHODS: Relevant studies were identified in PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, Web of Science, China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) and Wanfang databases until January 31, 2014. A total of 15 published studies including 5021 patients were eligible for this meta-analysis. Combined hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated with random-effects model.RESULTS: Combined hazard ratios suggested that IKZF1 deletion (IKZF1-d) had an unfavorable impact on event-free survival (EFS) (HR=2.32, 95%CI: 1.97-2.74) and overall survival (OS) (HR=2.56, 95%CI: 1.75-3.74) in patients with ALL. The significant role of IKZF1-d in the prognosis of ALL was also observed among different subgroups stratified by statistical methodology, ethnicity, age, detection method, risk group and duration of follow up.CONCLUSIONS: The findings from this meta-analysis suggest that IKZF1 deletion can be used to serve as an independent predictive factor in patients with ALL.
Comment in    Blood. 2015 Jan 1;125(1):9-10.
Natural killer (NK) cells are an innate lymphoid cell lineage characterized by their capacity to provide rapid effector functions, including cytokine production and cytotoxicity. Here, we identify the Ikaros family member, Aiolos, as a regulator of NK-cell maturation. Aiolos expression is initiated at the point of lineage commitment and maintained throughout NK-cell ontogeny. Analysis of cell surface markers representative of distinct stages of peripheral NK-cell maturation revealed that Aiolos was required for the maturation in the spleen of CD11b(high)CD27(-) NK cells. The differentiation block was intrinsic to the NK-cell lineage and resembled that found in mice lacking either T-bet or Blimp1; however, genetic analysis revealed that Aiolos acted independently of all other known regulators of NK-cell differentiation. NK cells lacking Aiolos were strongly hyper-reactive to a variety of NK-cell-mediated tumor models, yet impaired in controlling viral infection, suggesting a regulatory function for CD27(-) NK cells in balancing these two arms of the immune response. These data place Aiolos in the emerging gene regulatory network controlling NK-cell maturation and function.
Minimal residual disease (MRD) during early chemotherapy is a powerful predictor of relapse in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and is used in children to determine eligibility for allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in first (CR1) or later complete remission (CR2/CR3). Variables affecting HSCT outcome were analysed in 81 children from the ANZCHOG ALL8 trial. The major cause of treatment failure was relapse, with a cumulative incidence of relapse at 5 years (CIR) of 32% and treatment-related mortality of 8%. Leukaemia-free survival (LFS) and overall survival (OS) were similar for HSCT in CR1 (LFS 62%, OS 83%, n = 41) or CR2/CR3 (LFS 60%, OS 72%, n = 40). Patients achieving bone marrow MRD negativity pre-HSCT had better outcomes (LFS 83%, OS 92%) than those with persistent MRD pre-HSCT (LFS 41%, OS 64%, P < 0·0001) or post-HSCT (LFS 35%, OS 55%, P < 0·0001). Patients with B-other ALL had more relapses (CIR 50%, LFS 41%) than T-ALL and the main precursor-B subtypes including BCR-ABL1, KMT2A (MLL), ETV6-RUNX1 (TEL-AML1) and hyperdiploidy >50. A Cox multivariate regression model for LFS retained both B-other ALL subtype (hazard ratio 4·1, P = 0·0062) and MRD persistence post-HSCT (hazard ratio 3·9, P = 0·0070) as independent adverse prognostic variables. Persistent MRD could be used to direct post-HSCT therapy.
CD133 is a cellular surface glycoprotein that has been reported as a marker for the enrichment of cancer stem cells (CSCs). However, the regulatory mechanism of CD133 remains unknown. CSCs have been proposed to contribute to radioresistance and multi-drug resistance. The elucidation of key regulators of CD133 and CSCs is critical for the development of CSC-targeted therapy. In this study, we showed that Ikarosinhibited the expression of CD133 via direct binding to the CD133 P1 promoter and repressed the tumorigenic and self-renewal capacity of CD133(+) cancer stem-like cells in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We found that Ikaros interacted with CtBP as a transcription repressor complex, which inhibited CD133 expression in HCC. We also demonstrated that Ikaros expression was up-regulated by ETS1 which activity was regulated by MAPKs pathway. Furthermore, decreased expression of Ikaroswas significantly associated with poor survival in HCC patients. Overall, our study identifies that Ikaros plays a role as a transcription repressor in HCC and is a new reactivated therapeutic target for the treatment of HCC. Meanwhile, our findings provide evidence that Ikaros could be an attractive inhibitor of the target gene CD133, which reactivates anticancer mechanisms in targeted CSC therapy.
Author information:(1)Department of Human Genetics and Disease Diversity, Tokyo Medical and Dental University.
Dysregulated donor T cells lead to destruction of host tissues resulting in graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). We investigated the impact of highly purified (>95%) donor CD4(+) invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells on GVHD in a murine model of allogeneic HCT. We found that low doses of adoptively transferred donor CD4(+) iNKT cells protect from GVHD morbidity and mortality through an expansion of donor CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs). These Tregs express high levels of the Ikaros transcription factor Helios and expand from the Treg pool of the donor graft. Furthermore, CD4(+) iNKT cells preserve T-cell-mediated graft-versus-tumor effects. Our studies reveal new aspects of the cellular interplay between iNKT cells and Tregs in the context of tolerance induction after allogeneic HCT and set the stage for clinical translation.
OBJECTIVE: It has been reported that IKAROS family of zinc finger 3 (IKZF3)-deficient mice spontaneously develop human systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)-like phenotypes and produce anti-dsDNA Ab leading to immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis. Polymorphism of the IKZF3 gene corresponds with the susceptibility to several immune-related diseases. Our intention was to establish an association between polymorphisms in the IKZF3 gene and SLE in the Chinese Han population.METHODS: The study involved obtaining blood samples for DNA extraction and genotyping the 4 selected single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in IKZF3, including rs12150079, rs9909593, rs907091, and rs2872507, by performing PCR restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis (PCR-RFLP). A group of 366 SLE patients were compared to 455 healthy controls.RESULTS: A significant decrease in frequencies of the rs907091 CC genotype and C allele appeared in the SLE patients unlike that observed in the controls (p = 0.001 and 0.015, respectively). The frequencies of the rs12150079 genotype and allele were different between the SLE patients and the control individuals, although the significance was only marginal (p = 0.046 and 0.049, respectively). In addition, a significantly low frequency of the GGCG haplotype was observed in the SLE patients, suggesting that it may provide protection against SLE (p = 0.011).CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate an important association between polymorphisms in IKZF3 and SLE in the Chinese Han population. A strong association between rs907091 in the IKZF3 gene and SLE was identified.
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GSDMB (Gasdermin B) and ORMDL3 (ORMDL sphingolipid biosynthesis regulator 3) are strongly associated with childhood asthma, but the molecular alterations contributing to disease remain unknown. We investigated the effects of asthma-associated SNPs on DNA methylation and mRNA levels of GSDMB and ORMDL3. Genetic association between GSDMB/ORMDL3 and physician-diagnosed childhood asthma was confirmed in the Swedish birth-cohort BAMSE. CpG-site SNPs (rs7216389 and rs4065275) showed differences in DNA methylation depending on carrier status of the risk alleles, and were significantly associated with methylation levels in two CpG sites in the 5' UTR (untranslated region) of ORMDL3. In the Swedish Search study, we found significant differences in DNA methylation between asthmatics and controls in five CpG sites; after adjusting for lymphocyte and neutrophil cell counts, three remained significant: one in IKZF3 [IKAROS family zinc finger 3 (Aiolos); cg16293631] and two in the CpG island (CGI) of ORMDL3 (cg02305874 and cg16638648). Also, cg16293631 and cg02305874 correlated with mRNA levels of ORMDL3. The association between methylation and asthma was independent of the genotype in rs7216389, rs4065275 and rs12603332. Both SNPs and CpG sites showed significant associations with ORMDL3 mRNA levels. SNPs influenced expression independently of methylation, and the residual association between methylation and expression was not mediated by these SNPs. We found a differentially methylated region in the CGI shore of ORMDL3 with six CpG sites less methylated in CD8(+) T-cells. In summary, this study supports that there are differences in DNA methylation at this locus between asthmatics and controls; and both SNPs and CpG sites are independently associated with ORMDL3 expression.
BACKGROUND: Ikaros is a DNA-binding protein that acts as master-regulator of hematopoiesis and a tumor suppressor. In thymocytes and T-cell leukemia, Ikaros negatively regulates transcription of terminal deoxynucleotide transferase (TdT), a key protein in lymphocyte differentiation. The signaling pathways that regulate Ikaros-mediated repression of TdT are unknown. Our previous work identified Casein Kinase II (CK2) and Protein Phosphatase 1 (PP1) as regulators of Ikaros DNA binding activity. Here, we investigated the role of PP1 and CK2 in regulating Ikaros-mediated control of TdT expression.PROCEDURES: Ikaros phosphomimetic and phosphoresistant mutants and specific CK2 and PP1 inhibitors were used in combination with quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation (qChIP) and quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR (q RT-PCR) assays to evaluate the role of CK2 and PP1 in regulating the ability of Ikaros to bind the TdT promoter and to regulate TdT expression.RESULTS: We demonstrate that phosphorylation of Ikaros by pro-oncogenic CK2 decreases Ikaros binding to the promoter of the TdT gene and reduces the ability of Ikaros to repress TdT expression during thymocyte differentiation. CK2 inhibition and PP1 activity restore Ikaros DNA-binding affinity toward the TdT promoter, as well as Ikaros-mediated transcriptional repression of TdT in primary thymocytes and in leukemia.CONCLUSION: These data establish that PP1 and CK2 signal transduction pathways regulate Ikaros-mediated repression of TdT in thymocytes and leukemia. These findings reveal that PP1 and CK2 have opposing effects on Ikaros-mediated repression of TdT and establish novel roles for PP1 and CK2 signaling in thymocyte differentiation and leukemia.
Recombination activating gene-2 (RAG-2) and NWC are strongly evolutionarily conserved overlapping genes which are convergently transcribed. In non-lymphoid cells the NWC promoter is active whereas in lymphocytes it is inactive due to the DNA methylation. Analysing the mechanism responsible for lymphocyte-specific methylation and inactivation of NWC promoter we found that Ikaros, a lymphocyte-specific transcription factor, acts as a repressor of NWC promoter--thus identifying a new Ikaros target--but is insufficient for inducing its methylation which depends on the antisense transcription driven by RAG-2 promoter. Possible implications of these observations for understanding evolutionary mechanisms leading to lymphocyte specific expression of RAG genes are discussed.
Proper immune responses are needed to control pathogen infection at mucosal surfaces. IL-22-producing CD4(+) T cells play an important role in controlling bacterial infection in the gut; however, transcriptional regulation of these cells remains elusive. In this study, we show that mice with targeted deletion of the fourth DNA-binding zinc finger of the transcription factor Ikaros had increased IL-22-producing, but not IL-17-producing, CD4(+) T cells in the gut. Adoptive transfer of CD4(+) T cells from these Ikaros-mutant mice conferred enhanced mucosal immunity against Citrobacter rodentium infection. Despite an intact in vivo thymic-derived regulatory T cell (Treg) compartment in these Ikaros-mutant mice, TGF-β, a cytokine well known for induction of Tregs, failed to induce Foxp3 expression in Ikaros-mutant CD4(+) T cells in vitro and, instead, promoted IL-22. Aberrant upregulation of IL-21 in CD4(+) T cells expressing mutant Ikaros was responsible, at least in part, for the enhanced IL-22 expression in a Stat3-dependent manner. Genetic analysis using compound mutations further demonstrated that the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, but not RORγt, was required for aberrant IL-22 expression by Ikaros-mutant CD4(+) T cells, whereas forced expression of Foxp3 was sufficient to inhibit this aberrant cytokine production. Together, our data identified new functions for Ikaros in maintaining mucosal immune homeostasis by restricting IL-22 production by CD4(+) T cells.
MOTIVATION: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified many loci implicated in disease susceptibility. Integration of GWAS summary statistics (P-values) and functional genomic datasets should help to elucidate mechanisms.RESULTS: We extended a non-parametric SNP set enrichment method to test for enrichment of GWAS signals in functionally defined loci to a situation where only GWAS P-values are available. The approach is implemented in VSEAMS, a freely available software pipeline. We use VSEAMS to identify enrichment of type 1 diabetes (T1D) GWAS associations near genes that are targets for the transcription factors IKZF3, BATF and ESRRA. IKZF3 lies in a known T1D susceptibility region, while BATF and ESRRA overlap other immune disease susceptibility regions, validating our approach and suggesting novel avenues of research for T1D.AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: VSEAMS is available for download (http://github.com/ollyburren/vseams).
Associating the risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with genetic predisposition is still a challenge. Here, we discuss two non-twinned sibs (girl and boy) diagnosed with B-cell precursor (BCP-ALL) and ETV6-RUNX1. BCP-ALL clinical onset occurred 10months apart from each diagnosis. One child is alive in complete continuous remission, whereas, the other relapsed and evolved to death with resistance to ALL treatment. Despite the fact that BCP-ALL with ETV6-RUNX1 usually results in a very good prognosis, the sibs experienced divergent outcomes; a remarkable difference in one child that presented a more aggressive disease was higher leukocytosis associated with IKZF1 deletion. The familial history of cancer and genetic susceptibility was explored. The sibs were absolutely identical in all 17 loci of genes tested; GSTM1, GSTT1, NQO1, TP53, and TP63 were wild-type, whereas at least one copy of the variant allele for IKZF1, ARID5B, PTPRJ and CEBPE was present. The familial pattern of ETV6 was tested by the 12p microsatellite analysis and demonstrated that deletions occurred in one child but not the other, while heterozygous patterns were found in the parents. Altogether, our data suggest that genetic predisposition aligned with chance haa an additive effect in BCP-ALL outcome.
The immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), of which thalidomide was the first in class, have had a complex therapeutic history. Although these drugs are now widely used to treat multiple myeloma, the precise molecular mechanism of action of these agents has remained elusive. The finding that IMiDs bind cereblon, with subsequent activation of E3-ubiquitin ligase activity and degradation of the key transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3, has provided insight into these drugs but leaves many questions unanswered.
BACKGROUND: Until now, the major prognostic factors for pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), age, white blood cell count and chromosomal alterations are initially taken into account for the risk stratification of patients. In the light of protein marker studies to classify subtypes of Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia efficiently, we have compared the lymphoblastes proteome in Childhood ALL in accordance with the presence of t(12;21), indicator of good prognosis, usually.METHODS: Protein expression in pre-B2 lymphoblastic cells, collected from residual bone marrow cells after diagnostic procedures, was analyzed using two dimensional gel electrophoresis protocol. Protein spots whose average normalized volumes were statistically different in the two patients groups (n = 13; student t test p < 0.01), were excised. Tryptic peptides were then analyzed using a nano-LC1200 system coupled to a 6340 Ion Trap mass spectrometer equipped with a HPLC-chip cube interface. The tandem mass spectrometry peak lists extracted using the DataAnalysis program, were compared with the protein database Mascot Daemon.RESULTS: We focused on twelve spots corresponding to sixteen identified candidate proteins among the 26 found differentially expressed (p ≤ 0.05) regarding the presence of t(12;21). Among over expressed proteins, two proteins were implicated in cellular growth arrest (i.e. calponine 2, p ≤ 0.001 and phosphatidylinositol transfer protein beta, p ≤ 0.001) in accordance with good prognosis, while two other proteins favored cell cycle proliferation (i.e. methionine adenosyl transferase 2β, p ≤ 0.005 and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleo-proteins A2 p ≤ 0.01) and could therefore be good marker candidates of aggressiveness. Level of expression of proteasome subunit beta type-2 (p ≤ 0.01) and protein casein kinase 2α (p ≤ 0.01) which both favored apoptosis, deubiquitinating enzyme OTUB1 (p ≤ 0.05) and MLL septin-like fusion protein MSF-B, septin 9 i4 (p ≤ 0.01) were in accord with a good prognosis related to t(12;21) lymphoblasts.CONCLUSION: By drawing up the protein map of leukemic cells, these new data identified marker candidates of leukemic aggressiveness and new t(12;21) patients subgroups. These preliminary results will be in the near future confirmed by using a larger sample of pre-B2 childhood ALLs from national lymphoblastic cell collections.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, Hubei Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, Hubei Province, China. E-mail: cunrui5650@126.com.
Mi-2/nucleosomal remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) complexes are important epigenetic regulators of chromatin structure and gene expression. Mi-2/NuRD complexes are an assemblage of proteins that combine key epigenetic regulators necessary for (i) histone deacetylation and demethylation, (ii) binding to methylated DNA, (iii) mobilization of nucleosomes, and (iv) recruitment of additional regulatory proteins. Depending on their context in chromatin, Mi-2/NuRD complexes either activate or repress gene transcription. In this regard, they are important regulators of hematopoiesis and lymphopoiesis. Mi-2/NuRD complexes maintain pools of hematopoietic stem cells. Specifically, components of these complexes control multiple stages of B-cell development by regulating B-cell specific transcription. With one set of components, they inhibit terminal differentiation of germinal center B cells into plasma B cells. They also mediate gene repression together with Blimp-1 during plasma cell differentiation. In cooperation with Ikaros, Mi-2/NuRD complexes also play important roles in T-cell development, including CD4 versus CD8 fate decisions and peripheral T-cell responses. Dysregulation of NuRD during lymphopoiesis promotes leukemogenesis. Here, we review general properties of Mi-2/NuRD complexes and focus on their functions in gene regulation and development of lymphocytes.
During the last decades, many studies have investigated the transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of lineage decision in the hematopoietic system. These efforts led to a model in which extrinsic signals and intrinsic cues establish a permissive chromatin context upon which a regulatory network of transcription factors and epigenetic modifiers act to guide the differentiation of hematopoietic lineages. These networks include lineage-specific factors that further modify the epigenetic landscape and promote the generation of specific cell types. The process of B lymphopoiesis requires a set of transcription factors, including Ikaros, PU.1, E2A, and FoxO1 to 'prime' cis-regulatory regions for subsequent activation by the B-lineage-specific transcription factors EBF1 and Pax-5. The expression of EBF1 is initiated by the combined action of E2A and FoxO1, and it is further enhanced and maintained by several positive feedback loops that include Pax-5 and IL-7 signaling. EBF1 acts in concert with Ikaros, PU.1, Runx1, E2A, FoxO1, and Pax-5 to establish the B cell-specific transcription profile. EBF1 and Pax-5 also collaborate to repress alternative cell fates and lock cells into the B-lineage fate. In addition to the functions of EBF1 in establishing and maintaining B-cell identity, EBF1 is required to coordinate differentiation with cell proliferation and survival.
The cancer microenvironment plays a pivotal role in oncogenesis, containing a number of regulatory cells that attenuate the anti-neoplastic immune response. While the negative prognostic impact of regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the context of most solid tissue tumors is well established, their role in lymphoid malignancies remains unclear. T cells expressing FOXP3 and Helios were documented in the fine needle aspirates of affected lymph nodes of dogs with spontaneous multicentric B cell lymphoma (BCL), proposed to be a model for human non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Multivariable analysis revealed that the frequency of lymph node FOXP3(+) T cells was an independent negative prognostic factor, impacting both progression-free survival (hazard ratio 1.10; p = 0.01) and overall survival (hazard ratio 1.61; p = 0.01) when comparing dogs showing higher than the median FOXP3 expression with those showing the median value of FOXP3 expression or less. Taken together, these data suggest the existence of a population of Tregs operational in canine multicentric BCL that resembles thymic Tregs, which we speculate are co-opted by the tumor from the periphery. We suggest that canine multicentric BCL represents a robust large animal model of human diffuse large BCL, showing clinical, cytological and immunophenotypic similarities with the disease in man, allowing comparative studies of immunoregulatory mechanisms.
The Cul4-Rbx1-DDB1-Cereblon E3 ubiquitin ligase complex is the target of thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide, therapeutically important drugs for multiple myeloma and other B-cell malignancies. These drugs directly bind Cereblon (CRBN) and promote the recruitment of substrates Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3) to the E3 complex, thus leading to substrate ubiquitination and degradation. Here we present the crystal structure of human CRBN bound to DDB1 and the drug lenalidomide. A hydrophobic pocket in the thalidomide-binding domain (TBD) of CRBN accommodates the glutarimide moiety of lenalidomide, whereas the isoindolinone ring is exposed to solvent. We also solved the structures of the mouse TBD in the apo state and with thalidomide or pomalidomide. Site-directed mutagenesis in lentiviral-expression myeloma models showed that key drug-binding residues are critical for antiproliferative effects.
The development of resistance to therapy is unavoidable in the history of multiple myeloma patients. Therefore, the study of its characteristics and mechanisms is critical in the search for novel therapeutic approaches to overcome it. This effort is hampered by the absence of appropriate preclinical models, especially those mimicking acquired resistance. Here we present an in vivo model of acquired resistance based on the continuous treatment of mice bearing subcutaneous MM1S plasmacytomas. Xenografts acquired resistance to two generations of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs; lenalidomide and pomalidomide) in combination with dexamethasone, that was reversible after a wash-out period. Furthermore, lenalidomide-dexamethasone (LD) or pomalidomide-dexamethasone (PD) did not display cross-resistance, which could be due to the differential requirements of the key target Cereblon and its substrates Aiolos and Ikaros observed in cells resistant to each combination. Differential gene expression profiles of LD and PD could also explain the absence of cross-resistance. Onset of resistance to both combinations was accompanied by upregulation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase (MEK)/ERK pathway and addition of selumetinib, a small-molecule MEK inhibitor, could resensitize resistant cells. Our results provide insights into the mechanisms of acquired resistance to LD and PD combinations and offer possible therapeutic approaches to addressing IMiD resistance in the clinic.
Erratum in    Int J Hematol. 2014 Oct;100(4):413.
The Ikaros family of DNA-binding proteins are critical regulators of lymphocyte differentiation. In multipotent, hematopoietic progenitors, Ikaros supports transcriptional priming of genes promoting lymphocyte differentiation. Ikaros targets the Nucleosome Remodeling Deacetylase (NuRD) complex to lymphoid lineage genes, thereby increasing chromatin accessibility and transcriptional priming. After lymphoid lineage specification, Ikaros expression is raised to levels characteristic of intermediate B cell and T cell precursors, which is necessary to support maturation and prevent leukemogenesis. Loss of Ikaros in T cell precursors allows the NuRD complex to repress lymphocyte genes and extends its targeting to genes that support growth and proliferation, causing their activation and triggering a cascade of events that leads to leukemogenesis. Loss of Ikaros in B cell precursors blocks differentiation and perpetuates stromal adhesion by enhancing integrin signaling. The combination of integrin and cytokine signaling in Ikaros-deficient pre-B cells promotes their survival and self-renewal. The stages of lymphocyte differentiation that are highly dependent on Ikaros are underscored by changes in Ikaros transcription, supported by a complex network of stage-specific regulatory networks that converge upon the Ikzf1 locus. It is increasingly apparent that understanding the regulatory networks that operate upstream and downstream of Ikaros is critical not only for our understanding of normal lymphopoiesis, but also in placing the right finger on the mechanisms that support hematopoietic malignancies in mouse and human.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) control autoreactive T cells by inhibiting activation-induced proliferation and cytokine expression. The molecular mechanisms responsible for the inactivation of effector T cells by Tregs remain yet to be fully characterized. We report that T-helper cells stimulated in the presence of Tregs quickly activate NFAT1 and have increased NFAT1-dependent expression of the transcription repressor Ikaros. NFAT1 deficiency or dominant-negative Ikaros compromises Treg-mediated inhibition of T-helper cells in vitro and in vivo. Thus, our results place NFAT-dependent mechanisms as general regulators of T-cell tolerance and show that Treg-mediated suppression of T-helper cells results from the activation of NFAT-regulated gene expression.
In the 1950s, the drug thalidomide, administered as a sedative to pregnant women, led to the birth of thousands of children with multiple defects. Despite the teratogenicity of thalidomide and its derivatives lenalidomide and pomalidomide, these immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) recently emerged as effective treatments for multiple myeloma and 5q-deletion-associated dysplasia. IMiDs target the E3 ubiquitin ligase CUL4-RBX1-DDB1-CRBN (known as CRL4(CRBN)) and promote the ubiquitination of the IKAROS family transcription factors IKZF1 and IKZF3 by CRL4(CRBN). Here we present crystal structures of the DDB1-CRBN complex bound to thalidomide, lenalidomide and pomalidomide. The structure establishes that CRBN is a substrate receptor within CRL4(CRBN) and enantioselectively binds IMiDs. Using an unbiased screen, we identified the homeobox transcription factor MEIS2 as an endogenous substrate of CRL4(CRBN). Our studies suggest that IMiDs block endogenous substrates (MEIS2) from binding to CRL4(CRBN) while the ligase complex is recruiting IKZF1 or IKZF3 for degradation. This dual activity implies that small molecules can modulate an E3 ubiquitin ligase and thereby upregulate or downregulate the ubiquitination of proteins.
Several studies have been conducted to examine the association between IKZF1 rs4132601 polymorphism and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) risk. However, the conclusions remain controversial. We therefore performed a meta-analysis. PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Weipu and Chinese Biomedical Literature (CBM) databases were searched. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were used to assess the strength of association. A total of 15 case-control studies with 8333 cases and 36 036 controls were included in this meta-analysis. The results suggested that rs4132601 was associated with an increased ALL risk. Significant associations were found among Caucasians and Hispanics but not among Asians. In subgroup analysis by age group, both adults and children showed increased ALL risk. In subgroup analysis by subtype of ALL, significantly increased risks were observed in B-cell ALL and B hyperdiploid ALL, but not in T-cell ALL. This study suggests that IKZF1 rs4132601polymorphism is a risk factor for ALL.
PURPOSE: Syndrome diGeorge is associated amongst other clinical signs with various degrees of thymic dysplasia, related immunodeficiency and autoimmune disorders. Helios, a transcription factor from Ikaros family, has been proposed as a marker for thymus derived Tregs. We therefore examined Helios + Tregs in a cohort of patients with genetically proven diGeorge syndrome with typical T cell lymphopenia due to the thymic pathology.METHODS: T cells, FoxP3+ Tregs and Helios + FoxP3+ Tregs were examined in 52 samples from 37 patients. One patient with diGeorge/CHARGE syndrome with total thymic aplasia was also included. Statistical analysis was performed using a linear regression comparison.RESULTS: Total absolute Tregs were significantly lower in diGeorge patients as compared to controls in all age groups (0-20 years) (p = 0.0016). The difference was more expressed in the first four years of age. Relative Treg numbers expressed as the percentage of Tregs in CD4+ T-cells, however, were not different in patients and controls in all age groups (p = 0.661), neither could we find any significant difference in the percentage of Helios + Tregs between patients and controls (p = 0.238). Helios + Tregs were still present in a patient with diGeorge/CHARGE syndrome with complete athymia 7 years after partially matched unrelated repeated T lymphocytes infusions.CONCLUSION: Our findings show that while there was a significant decrease in absolute numbers of Tregs in patients with diGeorge syndrome, the relative percentage of this population did not differ between patients and controls. Low absolute Tregs thus reflected typical T cells lymphopenia in patients. Helios expression was not affected in diGeorge syndrome.
In a previous large-scale exome sequencing analysis for psoriasis, we discovered seven common and low-frequency missense variants within six genes with genome-wide significance. Here we describe an in-depth analysis of noncoding variants based on sequencing data (10,727 cases and 10,582 controls) with replication in an independent cohort of Han Chinese individuals consisting of 4,480 cases and 6,521 controls to identify additional psoriasis susceptibility loci. We confirmed four known psoriasis susceptibility loci (IL12B, IFIH1, ERAP1 and RNF114; 2.30 × 10(-20)≤P≤2.41 × 10(-7)) and identified three new susceptibility loci: 4q24 (NFKB1) at rs1020760 (P=2.19 × 10(-8)), 12p13.3 (CD27-LAG3) at rs758739 (P=4.08 × 10(-8)) and 17q12 (IKZF3) at rs10852936 (P=1.96 × 10(-8)). Two suggestive loci, 3p21.31 and 17q25, are also identified with P<1.00 × 10(-6). The results of this study increase the number of confirmed psoriasis risk loci and provide novel insight into the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
Comment in    Blood. 2014 Sep 4;124(10):1545-6.
BACKGROUND: Ikaros, the product of IKZF1, is a regulator of lymphoid development and polymorphisms in the gene have been associated with the acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Additionally, IKZF1 deletions and mutations identify high-risk biological subsets of childhood ALL [Georgopoulos et al. Cell 1995;83(2):289-299; Mullighan et al. N Engl J Md 2009;360(5):470-480].PROCEDURES: To discover the underlying pathways modulated by Ikaros we performed gene expression and gene ontology analysis in IKZF1 deleted primary B-ALL pediatric patient samples. To validate downstream targets we performed qPCR on individual patient samples. We also created IKZF1 knockdown B-ALL cell lines with over 50% reduction of Ikaros, mimicking haplosufficient Ikaros deletions, and again performed qPCR to investigate the downstream targets. Finally, to understand the association of Ikaros deletion with a poor prognosis we challenged our IKZF1 knockdown cell lines with chemotherapy and compared responses to IKZF1 wild-type controls.RESULTS: We report a specific gene expression signature of 735 up-regulated and 473 down-regulated genes in IKZF1 deleted primary B-ALL pediatric patient samples. Gene ontology studies revealed an up-regulation of genes associated with cell adhesion, cytoskeletal regulation, and motility in IKZF deleted patient samples. Validated up-regulated target genes in IKZF1 deleted patient samples included CTNND1 and PVRL2 (P = 0.0003 and P = 0.001), and RAB3IP and SPIB (P = 0.005 and P = 0.032) were down-regulated. In further studies in IKZF1 knockdown cell lines, apoptosis assays showed no significant chemoresistance.CONCLUSION: IKZF1 knockdown alone does not impart intrinsic chemotherapy resistance suggesting that the association with a poor prognosis may be due to additional lesions, microenvironmental interactions with the bone marrow niche, or other factors.
For an overall characterization of pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCPALL) with CRLF2 overexpression (OE), we conducted genetic analysis of CRLF2 in 167 pediatric BCPALL patients. CRLF2 OE was detected in 30 (18%) of 167 patients, the P2RY8-CRLF2 fusion was identified in only 3 (1.8%) of 167 patients, all of which demonstrated CRLF2 OE. Moreover, CRLF2 gain was identified in 18 (11%) of 167 patients. Messenger RNA sequencing revealed a novel fusion transcript, CSF2RA-CRLF2, in a case with CRLF2 OE, suggesting that this fusion is associated with CRLF2 OE. In survival analysis, no significant differences in 5-year event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival were observed between patients with and without CRLF2 OE (70.7 vs. 75.4%, log rank P = 0.68 and 96.4 vs. 82.1%, log rank P = 0.11, respectively). However, a significant difference in 5-year EFS between CRLF2 OE patients with and without IKZF1 deletion was observed (44.4 vs. 83.1%, log rank P = 0.02). In multivariate analysis, only IKZF1 deletion was a significant predictor of inferior OS (hazard ratio: 2.427, P = 0.04).These findings suggest that CRLF2 OE is not an independent prognostic factor in pediatric BCPALL.
Cereblon (CRBN) mediates immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) action in multiple myeloma (MM). Using 2 different methodologies, we identified 244 CRBN binding proteins and established relevance to MM biology by changes in their abundance after exposure to lenalidomide. Proteins most reproducibly binding CRBN (>fourfold vs controls) included DDB1, CUL4A, IKZF1, KPNA2, LTF, PFKL, PRKAR2A, RANGAP1, and SHMT2. After lenalidomide treatment, the abundance of 46 CRBN binding proteins decreased. We focused attention on 2 of these-IKZF1 and IKZF3. IZKF expression is similar across all MM stages or subtypes; however, IKZF1 is substantially lower in 3 of 5 IMiD-resistant MM cell lines. The cell line (FR4) with the lowest IKZF1 levels also harbors a damaging mutation and a translocation that upregulates IRF4, an IKZF target. Clinical relevance of CRBN-binding proteins was demonstrated in 44 refractory MM patients treated with pomalidomide and dexamethasone therapy in whom low IKZF1 gene expression predicted lack of response (0/11 responses in the lowest expression quartile). CRBN, IKZF1, and KPNA2 levels also correlate with significant differences in overall survival. Our study identifies CRBN-binding proteins and demonstrates that in addition to CRBN, IKZF1, and KPNA2, expression can predict survival outcomes.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The presence of the Philadelphia chromosome causing the fusion between BCR to ABL1 in B cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALLs) was associated with a particularly bad prognosis, which has been markedly improved with the addition of imatinib to chemotherapy. Recent genomic studies have lead to the identification of 'Philadelphia like' or 'BCR-ABL1 like' ALLs lacking BCR-ABL1 fusion.RECENT FINDINGS: About 10% of childhood ALL and a higher percentage of adolescents and adults with ALLs are characterized by activation of cytokine receptors and signaling kinases. Aberrant expression, point mutations or fusion translocations cause activation of either the ABL1 or JAK signaling pathways. In general, these leukemias are associated with worse prognosis. Preclinical studies and limited clinical experience suggest that these leukemias respond to tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Thus, their identification is important. However, as most of these fusion translocations are rare, their diagnosis is challenging.SUMMARY: The diagnosis of 'Philadelphia like' poor prognosis ALLs is technically challenging but of paramount importance as they are likely to respond to targeted therapy with currently available ABL or JAK inhibitors.
The differentiation of early B cell progenitors is controlled by multiple transcriptional regulators and growth-factor receptors. The triad of DNA-binding proteins, E2A, EBF1, and PAX5 is critical for both the early specification and commitment of B cell progenitors, while a larger number of secondary determinants, such as members of the Ikaros, ETS, Runx, and IRF families have more direct roles in promoting stage-specific pre-B gene-expression program. Importantly, it is now apparent that mutations in many of these transcription factors are associated with the progression to acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In this review, we focus on recent studies that have shed light on the transcriptional hierarchy that controls efficient B cell commitment and differentiation as well as focus on the oncogenic consequences of the loss of many of the same factors.
Comment in    Cancer Cell. 2014 May 12;25(5):551-2.
Comment on    Cancer Cell. 2014 May 12;25(5):575-89.
N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) is a common solvent and drug vehicle. We discovered unexpected antineoplastic and immunomodulatory activity of NMP in a cMYC-driven myeloma model. Coincident to this, NMP was identified as an acetyllysine mimetic and candidate bromodomain ligand. Accordingly, NMP-treated cells demonstrated transcriptional overlap with BET-bromodomain inhibition, including downregulation of cMYC and IRF4. NMP's immunomodulatory activity occurred at sub-BET inhibitory concentrations, and, despite phenotypic similarities to lenalidomide, its antimyeloma activity was independent of the IMiD targets cereblon and Ikaros-1/3. Thus, low-affinity yet broad-spectrum bromodomain inhibition by NMP mediates biologically potent, cereblon-independent immunomodulation and at higher doses targets malignant cells directly via BET antagonism. These data reveal that NMP is a functional acetyllysine mimetic with pleotropic antimyeloma and immunomodulatory activities. Our studies highlight the potential therapeutic benefits of NMP, the consequences of current human NMP exposures, and the need for reassessment of scientific literature where NMP was used as an "inert" drug-delivery vehicle.
Historically, our understanding of mechanisms underlying human leukemogenesis are inferred from genetically engineered mouse models. Relatively, few models that use primary human cells recapitulate the full leukemic transformation as assayed in xenografts and myeloid transformation is infrequent. We report a humanized experimental leukemia model where xenografts develop aggressive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with disseminated myeloid sarcomas within 4 weeks following transplantation of cord blood transduced with vectors expressing BCR-ABL1 and a dominant-negative isoform of IKAROS, Ik6. Ik6 induced transcriptional programs in BCR-ABL1-transduced progenitors that contained repressed B-cell progenitor programs, along with strong stemness, proliferation and granulocyte-monocytic progenitor (GMP) signatures-a novel combination not induced in control groups. Thus, wild-type IKAROS restrains stemness properties and has tumor suppressor activity in BCR-ABL1-initiated leukemia. Although IKAROS mutations/deletions are common in lymphoid transformation, they are found also at low frequency in AML that progress from a prior myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) state. Our experimental system provides an excellent model to gain insight into these rare cases of AML transformation and the properties conferred by IKAROS loss of function as a secondary mutation. More generally, our data points to the importance of deregulated stemness/lineage commitment programs in human myeloid leukemogenesis.
Naive CD4(+) T cells require signals from the TCR and CD28 to produce IL-2, expand, and differentiate. However, these same signals are not sufficient to induce autocrine IL-2 production by naive CD8(+) T cells, which require cytokines provided by other cell types to drive their differentiation. The basis for failed autocrine IL-2 production by activated CD8(+) cells is unclear. We find that Ikaros, a transcriptional repressor that silences IL-2 in anergic CD4(+) T cells, also restricts autocrine IL-2 production by CD8(+) T cells. We find that CD8(+) T cell activation in vitro in the absence of exogenous cytokines and CD4 help leads to marked induction of Ikaros, a known repressor of the Il2 gene. Naive murine CD8 T cells haplo-insufficient for Ikzf1 failed to upregulate Ikaros, produced autocrine IL-2, and differentiated in an IL-2-dependent manner into IFN-γ-producing CTLs in response to TCR/CD28 stimulation alone. Furthermore, Ikzf1 haplo-insufficient CD8(+) T cells were more effective at controlling Listeria infection and B16 melanoma growth in vivo, and they could provide help to neighboring, non-IL-2-producing cells to differentiate into IFN-γ-producing effectors. Therefore, by repressing autocrine IL-2 production, Ikaros ensures that naive CD8(+) T cells remain dependent on licensing by APCs and CD4(+) T cells, and it may therefore act as a cell-intrinsic safeguard against inappropriate CTL differentiation and immunopathology.
Comment in    Hepatology. 2014 Nov;60(5):1461-2.
The expression of the Ikaros transcription factor family member, Helios, has been shown to be associated with T-cell tolerance in both the thymus and the periphery. To better understand the importance of Helios in tolerance pathways, we have examined the expression of Helios in TCR-transgenic T cells specific for the gastric H(+) /K(+) ATPase, the autoantigen target in autoimmune gastritis. Analysis of H(+) /K(+) ATPase-specific T cells in mice with different patterns of H(+) /K(+) ATPase expression revealed that, in addition to the expression of Helios in CD4(+) Foxp3(+) regulatory T (Treg) cells, Helios is expressed by a large proportion of CD4(+) Foxp3(-) T cells in both the thymus and the paragastric lymph node (PgLN), which drains the stomach. In the thymus, Helios was expressed by H(+) /K(+) ATPase-specific thymocytes that were undergoing negative selection. In the periphery, Helios was expressed in H(+) /K(+) ATPase-specific CD4(+) T cells following H(+) /K(+) ATPase presentation and was more highly expressed when T-cell activation occurred in the absence of inflammation. Analysis of purified H(+) /K(+) ATPase-specific CD4(+) Foxp3(-) Helios(+) T cells demonstrated that they were functionally anergic. These results demonstrate that Helios is expressed by thymic and peripheral T cells that are being driven to tolerance in response to a genuine autoantigen.
The t(9;22)(q34;q11) or Philadelphia chromosome creates a BCR-ABL1 fusion gene encoding for a chimeric BCR-ABL1 protein. It is present in 3-4% of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph(+) ALL), and about 25% of adult ALL cases. Prior to the advent of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), Ph(+) ALL was associated with a very poor prognosis despite the use of intensive chemotherapy and frequently hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT) in first remission. The development of TKIs revolutionized the therapy of Ph(+) ALL. Addition of the first generation ABL1 class TKI imatinib to intensive chemotherapy dramatically increased the survival for children with Ph(+) ALL and established that many patients can be cured without HSCT. In parallel, the mechanistic understanding of Ph(+) ALL expanded exponentially through careful mapping of pathways downstream of BCR-ABL1, the discovery of mutations in master regulators of B-cell development such as IKZF1 (Ikaros), PAX5, and early B-cell factor (EBF), the recognition of the complex clonal architecture of Ph(+) ALL, and the delineation of genomic, epigenetic, and signaling abnormalities contributing to relapse and resistance. Still, many important basic and clinical questions remain unanswered. Current clinical trials are testing second generation TKIs in patients with newly diagnosed Ph(+) ALL. Neither the optimal duration of therapy nor the optimal chemotherapy backbone are currently defined. The role of HSCT in first remission and post-transplant TKI therapy also require further study. In addition, it will be crucial to continue to dig deeper into understanding Ph(+) ALL at a mechanistic level, and translate findings into complementary targeted approaches. Expanding targeted therapies hold great promise to decrease toxicity and improve survival in this high-risk disease, which provides a paradigm for how targeted therapies can be incorporated into treatment of other high-risk leukemias.
The gut microbiota provides an important stimulus for the induction of regulatory T (Treg) cells in mice, whether this applies to newborn children is unknown. In Swedish children, Staphylococcus aureus has become a common early colonizer of the gut. Here, we sought to study the effects of bacterial stimulation on neonatal CD4(+) T cells for the induction of CD25(+) CD127(low) Treg cells in vitro. The proportion of circulating CD25(+) CD127(low) Treg cells and their expression of FOXP3, Helios and CTLA-4 was examined in newborns and adults. To evaluate if commensal gut bacteria could induce Treg cells, CellTrace violet-stained non-Treg cells from cord or peripheral blood from adults were co-cultured with autologous CD25(+) CD127(low) Treg cells and remaining mononuclear cells and stimulated with S. aureus. Newborns had a significantly lower proportion of CD25(+) CD127(low) Treg cells than adults, but these cells were Helios(+) and CTLA-4(+) to a higher extent than in adults. FOXP3(+) CD25(+) CD127(low) T cells were induced mainly in neonatal CellTrace-stained non-Treg cells after stimulation with S. aureus. In cell cultures from adults, S. aureus induced CD25(+) CD127(low) T cells only if sorted naive CD45RA(+) non-Treg cells were used, but these cells expressed less FOXP3 than those induced from newborns. Sorted neonatal CD25(+) CD127(low) T cells from S. aureus-stimulated cultures were still suppressive. Finally, blocking PD-L1 during stimulation reduced the induction of FOXP3(+) CD25(+) CD127(low) T cells. These results suggest that newborns have a higher proportion of circulating thymically derived Helios(+) Treg cells than adults and that S. aureus possess an ability to convert neonatal conventional CD4(+) T cells into FOXP3(+) CD25(+) CD127(low) Treg cells via the PD-1/PD-L1 axis.
Interferon (IFN) activation signaling and T helper 17 (Th17)-cell/B-cell regulation play a critical role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Several studies have provided convincing evidence that polymorphisms in IRF5, STAT4, IKZF1 and ETS1 from these pathways may be involved in SLE by affecting gene expression or epistasis. We analyzed the genetic interaction in known SLE susceptibility loci from the four genes in northern Han Chinese. A total of 946 northern Han Chinese participated in this study (370 unrelated SLE patients and 576 healthy controls). Subjects underwent genotyping for the single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs2004640 in IRF5, rs7574865 in STAT4, rs4917014 in IKZF1 and rs1128334 in ETS1 by use of a TaqMan SNP genotyping assay and direct sequencing. Gene-gene interaction analysis involved direct counting, multifactor dimensionality reduction (MDR) and linear regression analysis. SLE patients and controls differed in allele frequencies of rs7574865, rs1128334 (P < 0.001) and rs4917014 (P < 0.01). Direct counting revealed that the frequency of risk homozygote combinations was higher for SLE patients than controls (P < 0.01). Furthermore, 2-, 3- and 4-way gene-gene epistasis in SLE was confirmed by parametric methods and MDR analysis. Gene expression analysis partially supported the findings. Our study confirmed the association of the IFN pathway or Th17/B-cells and the pathogenesis of SLE, and gene-gene interaction in this pathway may increase the risk of SLE.
Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is a highly conserved and ubiquitous serine/threonine phosphatase. We have shown previously that PP2A expression is increased in T cells of systemic lupus erythematosus patients and that this increased expression and activity of PP2A plays a central role in the molecular pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus. Although the control of PP2A expression has been the focus of many studies, many aspects of its regulation still remain poorly understood. In this study, we describe a novel mechanism of PP2A regulation. We propose that the transcription factor Ikaros binds to a variant site in the first intron of PP2A and modulates its expression. Exogenous expression of Ikaros leads to reduced levels of PP2Ac message as well as protein. Conversely, siRNA-enabled silencing of Ikaros enhances the expression of PP2A, suggesting that Ikaros acts as a suppressor of PP2A expression. A ChIP analysis further proved that Ikaros is recruited to this site in T cells. We also attempted to delineate the mechanism of Ikaros-mediated PP2Ac gene suppression. We show that Ikaros-mediated suppression of PP2A expression is at least partially dependent on the recruitment of the histone deacetylase HDAC1 to this intronic site. We conclude that the transcription factor Ikaros can regulate the expression of PP2A by binding to a site in the first intron and modulating chromatin modifications at this site via recruitment of HDAC1.
Erratum in    Br J Haematol. 2014 Nov;167(4):584.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common type of leukemia of childhood. Over the last 50 years there have been tremendous scientific advances in understanding the pathogenesis and the mechanisms that control cellular proliferation in ALL. These discoveries led to the development of efficient therapeutic regimens that greatly improved survival of children with ALL. Recently, several genes have been demonstrated to play a key role in tumor suppression and that their deregulation leads to malignant transformation and can affect overall survival. This review summarizes the role of Ikaros (IKZF1) in tumor suppression and regulation of gene expression in leukemia. Deletions and/or mutations of Ikaros have been detected in a large percentage of pediatric and adult ALL and reduced Ikaros function has been associated with poor outcome in ALL. Ikaros function in chromatin remodeling and epigenetic regulation of gene transcription emphasizes the important role of this protein in controlling cellular proliferation. In this review, we particularly focus on the role of signaling pathways in the regulation of Ikaros activity and its transcriptional control in leukemia.
The miR-17-92 cluster regulates a broad spectrum of biological processes of T cell immunity. This cluster was found to facilitate T cell proliferation, enhance antitumor activities and promote T cell-dependent antibody responses. However, little is known about the role of this miRNA cluster in the development of autoimmune diseases. Multiple sclerosis is a neuro-destructive autoimmune disease caused by the pathogenicity of TH17 cells, whose differentiation is tightly controlled by a variety of transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulators. Our study unveils the critical role of miR-17-92 in TH17 differentiation: T cell-specific miR-17-92 deficiency reduced TH17 differentiation and ameliorated experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) symptoms. We demonstrated that miR-17 and miR-19b are the two miRNAs in this cluster responsible for promoting TH17 responses. MiR-19b represses the expression of Phosphatase and Tensin Homology (PTEN), thereby augmenting the PI3K-AKT-mTOR axis essential for proper TH17 differentiation. Meanwhile, miR-17 enhances TH17 polarization by inhibiting a novel target, Ikaros Family Zinc Finger 4 (IKZF4). By establishing the miR-17-92 cluster as a key driver of TH17 responses, our data identify this miRNA cluster as a potential therapeutic target for the clinical intervention of multiple sclerosis.
The Notch signaling pathway is activated in many cell types, but its effects are cell type- and stage-specific. In the immune system, Notch activity is required for the differentiation of T cell progenitors, but it is reduced in more mature thymocytes, in which Notch is oncogenic. Studies based on single-gene models have suggested that the tumor suppressor protein Ikaros plays an important role in repressing the transcription of Notch target genes. We used genome-wide analyses, including chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing, to identify genes controlled by Notch and Ikaros in gain- and loss-of-function experiments. We found that Ikaros bound to and directly repressed the expression of most genes that are activated by Notch. Specific deletion of Ikaros in thymocytes led to the persistent expression of Notch target genes that are essential for T cell maturation, as well as the rapid development of T cell leukemias in mice. Expression of Notch target genes that are normally silent in T cells, but are activated by Notch in other cell types, occurred in T cells of mice genetically deficient in Ikaros. We propose that Ikaros shapes the timing and repertoire of the Notch transcriptional response in T cells through widespread targeting of elements adjacent to Notch regulatory sequences. These results provide a molecular framework for understanding the regulation of tissue-specific and tumor-related Notch responses.
Comment on    Blood. 2014 Mar 13;123(11):1691-8.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer, characterized by a peak of incidence between 2 and 5 years. Since recently conducted genome-wide association (GWA) studies revealed that the common low-penetrance susceptibility allele at 7p12.2 (IKZF1 gene) confers an increased risk of pediatric ALL, we investigated whether the risk allele at rs4132601 also coexists with well-established prognostic factors, among 508 Polish pediatric patients with newly diagnosed ALL. Additionally, to verify whether the risk allele is favored by somatic tumor evolution, we examined the incidence of IKZF1 deletions in leukemic clones derived from 153 previously genotyped cases of pediatric ALL. Results of the analysis provide statistically significant support for an association between the rs4132601 polymorphic site and age at diagnosis of childhood ALL (p = 0.04). No association between allele variant and occurrence of IKZF1 deletions was found. These data provide further evidence of a biological role of gene variants in the development of ALL.
Retroviral insertional mutagenesis (RIM) is a powerful tool for cancer genomics that was combined in this study with deep sequencing (RIM/DS) to facilitate a comprehensive analysis of lymphoma progression. Transgenic mice expressing two potent collaborating oncogenes in the germ line (CD2-MYC, -Runx2) develop rapid onset tumours that can be accelerated and rendered polyclonal by neonatal Moloney murine leukaemia virus (MoMLV) infection. RIM/DS analysis of 28 polyclonal lymphomas identified 771 common insertion sites (CISs) defining a 'progression network' that encompassed a remarkably large fraction of known MoMLV target genes, with further strong indications of oncogenic selection above the background of MoMLV integration preference. Progression driven by RIM was characterised as a Darwinian process of clonal competition engaging proliferation control networks downstream of cytokine and T-cell receptor signalling. Enhancer mode activation accounted for the most efficiently selected CIS target genes, including Ccr7 as the most prominent of a set of chemokine receptors driving paracrine growth stimulation and lymphoma dissemination. Another large target gene subset including candidate tumour suppressors was disrupted by intragenic insertions. A second RIM/DS screen comparing lymphomas of wild-type and parental transgenics showed that CD2-MYC tumours are virtually dependent on activation of Runx family genes in strong preference to other potent Myc collaborating genes (Gfi1, Notch1). Ikzf1 was identified as a novel collaborating gene for Runx2 and illustrated the interface between integration preference and oncogenic selection. Lymphoma target genes for MoMLV can be classified into (a) a small set of master regulators that confer self-renewal; overcoming p53 and other failsafe pathways and (b) a large group of progression genes that control autonomous proliferation in transformed cells. These findings provide insights into retroviral biology, human cancer genetics and the safety of vector-mediated gene therapy.
This study reviewed the clinical characteristics of 112 pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) patients with TCF3-PBX1 fusion treated according to the Japan Association of Childhood Leukemia Study (JACLS) ALL02 protocol (n = 82) and Children's Cancer and Leukemia Study Group (CCLSG) ALL 2004 protocol (n = 30). The 3-year event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) rates were 85.4 ± 3.9% and 89.0 ± 3.5% in JACLS cohort, and the 5-year EFS and OS were 82.8 ± 7.0% and 86.3 ± 6.4% in CCLSG cohort, respectively, which are comparable to those reported in western countries. Conventional prognostic factors such as age at onset, initial white blood cell count, and National Cancer Institute risk have also no impact on OS in both cohorts. Surprisingly, the pattern of relapse in JACLS cohort, 9 of 82 patients, was unique: eight of nine patients relapsed during the maintenance phase and one patient had primary induction failure. However, bone marrow status and assessment of minimal residual disease on days 15 and 33 did not identify those patients. Interestingly, the two patients with IKZF1 deletion eventually relapsed in JACLS cohort, as did one patient in CCLSG cohort. International collaborative study of larger cohort is warranted to clarify the impact of the IKZF1 deletion on the poor outcome of TCF3-PBX1 positive BCP-ALL.
During B cell development, long-distance DNA interactions are needed for V(D)J somatic rearrangement of the immunoglobulin (Ig) loci to produce functional Ig genes, and for class switch recombination (CSR) needed for antibody maturation. The tissue-specificity and developmental timing of these mechanisms is a subject of active investigation. A small number of factors are implicated in controlling Ig locus long-distance interactions including Pax5, Yin Yang 1 (YY1), EZH2, IKAROS, CTCF, cohesin, and condensin proteins. Here we will focus on the role of YY1 in controlling these mechanisms. YY1 is a multifunctional transcription factor involved in transcriptional activation and repression, X chromosome inactivation, Polycomb Group (PcG) protein DNA recruitment, and recruitment of proteins required for epigenetic modifications (acetylation, deacetylation, methylation, ubiquitination, sumoylation, etc.). YY1 conditional knock-out indicated that YY1 is required for B cell development, at least in part, by controlling long-distance DNA interactions at the immunoglobulin heavy chain and Igκ loci. Our recent data show that YY1 is also required for CSR. The mechanisms implicated in YY1 control of long-distance DNA interactions include controlling non-coding antisense RNA transcripts, recruitment of PcG proteins to DNA, and interaction with complexes involved in long-distance DNA interactions including the cohesin and condensin complexes. Though common rearrangement mechanisms operate at all Ig loci, their distinct temporal activation along with the ubiquitous nature of YY1 poses challenges for determining the specific mechanisms of YY1 function in these processes, and their regulation at the tissue-specific and B cell stage-specific level. The large numbers of post-translational modifications that control YY1 functions are possible candidates for regulation.
Ikaros is a zinc finger DNA-binding protein that regulates chromatin remodeling and the expression of genes involved in the cell cycle, apoptosis, and Notch signaling. It is a master regulator of lymphocyte differentiation and functions as a tumor suppressor in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Nevertheless, no previous reports described effects of Ikaros on the life cycle of any human lymphotropic virus. Here, we demonstrate that full-length Ikaros (IK-1) functions as a major factor in the maintenance of viral latency in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive Burkitt's lymphoma Sal and MutuI cell lines. Either silencing of Ikaros expression by small hairpin RNA (shRNA) knockdown or ectopic expression of a non-DNA-binding isoform induced lytic gene expression. These effects synergized with other lytic inducers of EBV, including transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) and the hypoxia mimic desferrioxamine. Data from chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-quantitative PCR (qPCR) and ChIP-sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses indicated that Ikaros did not bind to either of the EBV immediate early genes BZLF1 and BRLF1. Rather, Ikaros affected the expression of Oct-2 and Bcl-6, other transcription factors that directly inhibit EBV reactivation and plasma cell differentiation, respectively. IK-1 also complexed with the EBV immediate early R protein in coimmunoprecipitation assays and partially colocalized with R within cells. The presence of R alleviated IK-1-mediated transcriptional repression, with IK-1 then cooperating with Z and R to enhance lytic gene expression. Thus, we conclude that Ikaros plays distinct roles at different stages of EBV's life cycle: it contributes to maintaining latency via indirect mechanisms, and it may also synergize with Z and R to enhance lytic replication through direct association with R and/or R-induced alterations in Ikaros' functional activities via cellular signaling pathways.IMPORTANCE: This is the first report showing that the cellular protein Ikaros, a known master regulator of hematopoiesis and critical tumor suppressor in acute lymphoblastic leukemia, also plays important roles in the life cycle of Epstein-Barr virus in B cells.
Deletion of the DNA-binding domain of the transcription factor Ikaros generates dominant-negative isoforms that interfere with its activity and correlate with poor prognosis in human precursor B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Here we found that conditional inactivation of the Ikaros DNA-binding domain in early pre-B cells arrested their differentiation at a stage at which integrin-dependent adhesion to niches augmented signaling via mitogen-activated protein kinases, proliferation and self-renewal and attenuated signaling via the pre-B cell signaling complex (pre-BCR) and the differentiation of pre-B cells. Transplantation of polyclonal Ikaros-mutant pre-B cells resulted in long-latency oligoclonal pre-B-ALL, which demonstrates that loss of Ikaros contributes to multistep B cell leukemogenesis. Our results explain how normal pre-B cells transit from a highly proliferative and stroma-dependent phase to a stroma-independent phase during which differentiation is enabled, and suggest potential therapeutic strategies for Ikaros-mutant B-ALL.
The transcription factor Ikaros is an essential regulator of lymphopoiesis. Here we studied its B cell-specific function by conditional inactivation of the gene encoding Ikaros (Ikzf1) in pro-B cells. B cell development was arrested at an aberrant 'pro-B cell' stage characterized by increased cell adhesion and loss of signaling via the pre-B cell signaling complex (pre-BCR). Ikaros activated genes encoding signal transducers of the pre-BCR and repressed genes involved in the downregulation of pre-BCR signaling and upregulation of the integrin signaling pathway. Unexpectedly, derepression of expression of the transcription factor Aiolos did not compensate for the loss of Ikaros in pro-B cells. Ikaros induced or suppressed active chromatin at regulatory elements of activated or repressed target genes. Notably, binding of Ikaros and expression of its target genes were dynamically regulated at distinct stages of early B lymphopoiesis.
IL-17+ CD4+ T (Th17) cells contribute to the pathogenesis of several human inflammatory diseases. Here we demonstrate that TNF inhibitor (TNFi) drugs induce the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 in CD4+ T cells including IL-17+ CD4+ T cells. TNFi-mediated induction of IL-10 in IL-17+ CD4+ T cells is Treg-/Foxp3-independent, requires IL-10 and is overcome by IL-1β. TNFi-exposed IL-17+ CD4+ T cells are molecularly and functionally distinct, with a unique gene signature characterized by expression of IL10 and IKZF3 (encoding Aiolos). We show that Aiolos binds conserved regions in the IL10 locus in IL-17+ CD4+ T cells. Furthermore, IKZF3 and IL10 expression levels correlate in primary CD4+ T cells and Aiolos overexpression is sufficient to drive IL10 in these cells. Our data demonstrate that TNF-α blockade induces IL-10 in CD4+ T cells including Th17 cells and suggest a role for the transcription factor Aiolos in the regulation of IL-10 in CD4+ T cells.
Here we report the results of gene expression analyses using multiple probesets aimed at determining the incidence of Ikaros/IKZF1 deletions in pediatric B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BPL). Primary leukemia cells from 122 Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)+ BPL patients and 237 Ph- BPL patients as well as normal hematopoietic cells from 74 normal non-leukemic bone marrow specimens were organized according to expression levels of IKZF1 transcripts utilizing two-way hierarchical clustering technique to identify specimens with low IKZF1 expression for the 10 probesets interrogating Exons 1 through 4 and Exon 8. Our analysis demonstrated no changes in expression that would be expected from homozygous or heterozygous deletions of IKZF1 in primary leukemic cells. Similar results were obtained in gene expression analysis of primary leukemic cells from 20 Ph+ positive and 155 Ph- BPL patients in a validation dataset. Taken together, our gene expression analyses in 534 pediatric BPL cases, including 142 cases with Ph+ BPL, contradict previous reports that were based on SNP array data and suggested that Ph+ pediatric BPL is characterized by a high frequency of homozygous or heterozygous IKZF1 deletions. Further, exon-specific genomic PCR analysis of primary leukemia cells from 21 high-risk pediatric BPL patients and 11 standard-risk pediatric BPL patients, and 8 patients with infant BPL did not show any evidence for homozygous IKZF1 locus deletions. Nor was there any evidence for homozygous or heterozygous intragenic IKZF1 deletions.
Ikaros (IK) malfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), the most common form of childhood cancer. Therefore, a stringent regulation of IK activity is very important. Here we provide unique genetic and biochemical evidence that the Ku protein components Ku70 and Ku80 act as positive regulators of IK function via formation of IK-Ku70 and IK-Ku80 heterodimers with augmented sequence-specific DNA binding activity. siRNA-mediated depletion of Ku70 or Ku80 reduced the sequence-specific DNA binding activity of IK in EMSA as well as the RT-PCR measured IK target gene expression levels in human cells. The interaction of Ku components with IK likely contributes to the anti-leukemic effects of IK as a tumor suppressor, because Ku70 as well as Ku80 haploinsuffiency in mice caused development of a lymphoproliferative disorder (LPD) involving CD2+CD4+CD8+CD1+IL7R+ thymic T-cell precursors with functional IK deficiency.
Comment on    Arthritis Rheum. 2013 Nov;65(11):2898-906.    Arthritis Rheumatol. 2014 May;66(5):1402-3.
Comment in    Arthritis Rheumatol. 2014 May;66(5):1403-4.
Comment on    Science. 2014 Jan 17;343(6168):305-9.    Science. 2014 Jan 17;343(6168):301-5.
Thalidomide and related drugs are key drugs for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). These agents bind to cereblon, a component of a ubiquitin ligase complex, altering the specificity of the complex to induce the ubiquitylation and degradation of Ikaros (IKZF1) and Aiolos (IKZF3), transcription factors essential for MM growth.
A fundamental goal in biology is to gain a quantitative understanding of how appropriate cell responses are achieved amid conflicting signals that work in parallel. Through live, single-cell imaging, we monitored both the dynamics of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling and inflammatory cytokine transcription in macrophages exposed to the bacterial product lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Our analysis revealed a previously uncharacterized positive feedback loop involving induction of the expression of Rela, which encodes the RelA (p65) NF-κB subunit. This positive feedback loop rewired the regulatory network when cells were exposed to LPS above a distinct concentration. Paradoxically, this rewiring of NF-κB signaling in macrophages (a myeloid cell type) required the transcription factor Ikaros, which promotes the development of lymphoid cells. Mathematical modeling and experimental validation showed that the RelA positive feedback overcame existing negative feedback loops and enabled cells to discriminate between different concentrations of LPS to mount an effective innate immune response only at higher concentrations. We suggest that this switching in the relative dominance of feedback loops ("feedback dominance switching") may be a general mechanism in immune cells to integrate opposing feedback on a key transcriptional regulator and to set a response threshold for the host.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) exert negative effects on gene expression and influence cell lineage choice during hematopoiesis. C/EBPa-induced pre-B cell-to-macrophage transdifferentiation provides an excellent model to investigate the contribution of miRNAs to hematopoietic cell identity, especially because the two cell types involved fall into separate lymphoid and myeloid branches. In this process, efficient repression of the B cell-specific program is essential to ensure transdifferentation and macrophage function. miRNA profiling revealed that upregulation of miRNAs is highly predominant compared with downregulation and that C/EBPa directly regulates several upregulated miRNAs. We also determined that miRNA 34a (miR-34a) and miR-223 sharply accelerate C/EBPa-mediated transdifferentiation, whereas their depletion delays this process. These two miRNAs affect the transdifferentiation efficiency and activity of macrophages, including their lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-dependent inflammatory response. miR-34a and miR-223 directly target and downregulate the lymphoid transcription factor Lef1, whose ectopic expression delays transdifferentiation to an extent similar to that seen with miR-34a and miR-223 depletion. In addition, ectopic introduction of Lef1 in macrophages causes upregulation of B cell markers, including CD19, Pax5, and Ikzf3. Our report demonstrates the importance of these miRNAs in ensuring the erasure of key B cell transcription factors, such as Lef1, and reinforces the notion of their essential role in fine-tuning the control required for establishing cell identity.
Growth hormone (GH) is an important regulator of immune functions in vertebrates, and it has been intensively reported a series of stimulatory actions of this hormone over on the immune system. Within aquaculture, overexpression of GH has been considered a promising alternative for promoting higher growth rates in organisms of commercial interest. Considering the various pleiotropic effects of GH, there are still few studies that aim to understand the consequences of the excess of GH on the physiological systems. In this context, our goal was to present the effects of the overexpression of GH on immune parameters using a model of zebrafish (Danio rerio) that overexpress this hormone. The results showed that GH transgenic zebrafish had 100% of mortality when immunosuppressed with dexamethasone, revealing a prior weakening of the immune system in this lineage. Morphometric analysis of thymus and head kidney revealed a reduction in the area of these structures in transgenic zebrafish. Moreover, the phenotypic expression of CD3 and CD4 thymocytes was also depreciated in transgenic zebrafish. Furthermore, a decrease was noted in the expression of genes RAG-1 (60%), IKAROS (50%), IL-1β (55%), CD4 (60%) and CD247 (40%), indicating that development parameters, of innate and acquired immunity, are being harmed. Based on these results, it can be concluded that the excess of GH impairs the immune functions in GH transgenic zebrafish, indicating that the maintenance of normal levels of this hormone is essential for the functioning of immunological activities.
BACKGROUND: Asthma is a complex disease with both genetic and environmental causes. Genome-wide association studies of asthma have mostly involved European populations, and replication of positive associations has been inconsistent.OBJECTIVE: We sought to identify asthma-associated genes in a large Latino population with genome-wide association analysis and admixture mapping.METHODS: Latino children with asthma (n = 1893) and healthy control subjects (n = 1881) were recruited from 5 sites in the United States: Puerto Rico, New York, Chicago, Houston, and the San Francisco Bay Area. Subjects were genotyped on an Affymetrix World Array IV chip. We performed genome-wide association and admixture mapping to identify asthma-associated loci.RESULTS: We identified a significant association between ancestry and asthma at 6p21 (lowest P value: rs2523924, P < 5 × 10(-6)). This association replicates in a meta-analysis of the EVE Asthma Consortium (P = .01). Fine mapping of the region in this study and the EVE Asthma Consortium suggests an association between PSORS1C1 and asthma. We confirmed the strong allelic association between SNPs in the 17q21 region and asthma in Latinos (IKZF3, lowest P value: rs90792, odds ratio, 0.67; 95% CI, 0.61-0.75; P = 6 × 10(-13)) and replicated associations in several genes that had previously been associated with asthma in genome-wide association studies.CONCLUSIONS: Admixture mapping and genome-wide association are complementary techniques that provide evidence for multiple asthma-associated loci in Latinos. Admixture mapping identifies a novel locus on 6p21 that replicates in a meta-analysis of several Latino populations, whereas genome-wide association confirms the previously identified locus on 17q21.
The Caenorhabditis elegans somatic gonadal precursors (SGPs) are multipotent progenitors that give rise to all somatic tissues of the adult reproductive system. The hunchback and Ikaros-like gene ehn-3 is expressed specifically in SGPs and is required for their development into differentiated tissues of the somatic gonad. To find novel genes involved in SGP development, we used a weak allele of ehn-3 as the basis for a reverse genetic screen. Feeding RNAi was used to screen ∼2400 clones consisting of transcription factors, signaling components, and chromatin factors. The screen identified five members of the C. elegans SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex as genetic enhancers of ehn-3. We characterized alleles of 10 SWI/SNF genes and found that SWI/SNF subunits are required for viability and gonadogenesis. Two conserved SWI/SNF complexes, PBAF and BAF, are defined by their unique array of accessory subunits around a common enzymatic core that includes a catalytic Swi2/Snf2-type ATPase. Tissue-specific RNAi experiments suggest that C. elegans PBAF and BAF complexes control different processes during somatic gonadal development: PBRM-1, a signature subunit of PBAF, is important for normal SGP development, whereas LET-526, the distinguishing subunit of BAF, is required for development of a differentiated cell type, the distal tip cell (DTC). We found that the SWSN-4 ATPase subunit is required for SGP and DTC development. Finally, we provide evidence that C. elegans PBAF subunits and hnd-1/dHand are important for the cell fate decision between SGPs and their differentiated sisters, the head mesodermal cells.
Our previous study demonstrated that the dominant-negative Ikaros isoform 6 (Ik6) is overexpressed in Chinese children with newly diagnosed B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and is strongly associated with a poor outcome. The purpose of the present study was to further explore the function of Ik6 in B-ALL. The association between Ik6 expression as detected by real-time PCR and efficacy of chemotherapy was evaluated. The effect of the alteration in Ik6 on leukemic cell lines was assessed by in vitro gain-of-function and loss-of-function techniques. PCR analysis showed that Ik6 expression was decreased when patients completed induction chemotherapy and reached complete remission. Ik6 expression was significantly increased when patients suffered relapse. Stable transfection of Ik6 into the Nalm-6 cell line revealed that Ik6 enhanced proliferation of Nalm-6 cells through the promotion of G0/G1-to-S-phase transition and enhanced chemoresistance to chemotherapeutics through anti-apoptotic effects. However, Ik6 expression did not affect the invasion of Nalm-6 cells. In contrast, silencing of Ik6 in Sup-B15 cells significantly inhibited proliferation and increased chemosensitivity. The present study suggests that Ik6 may be a biological marker of chemosensitivity and relapse and Ik6 may provide a potential therapeutic strategy for ALL.
The AIOLOS gene is important in the control of mature B-lymphocyte differentiation and proliferation. Previous research has shown that deregulated AIOLOS expression is associated with adult B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia in human patients. However, the function of AIOLOS in childhood B-cell precursor (BCP)-ALL is not fully understood. In the present study, Nalm-6 cells were divided into three groups: the untransfected control (UT), the lentiviral vector control (Lenti-Mock) and the AIOLOS-overexpressing (Lenti-AIOLOS) group. Lenti-AIOLOS Nalm-6 cells were constructed by lentiviral transduction, followed by cell proliferation assay, cell-cycle analysis and apoptosis assay, to evaluate the effects of AIOLOS on proliferation, cell cycle distribution and apoptosis of Nalm-6 cells in vitro. Moreover, the expression levels of genes associated with apoptosis and the cell cycle, as well as the transcription factors IKZF1 and NF-κB, were investigated by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis. The results showed that the proliferation of Nalm-6 cells in the Lenti-AIOLOS group was reduced by 16% on day 8 compared with cells in the UT group (P>0.05). The reduction peaked at 29% on day 10 (P<0.05). The percentage of Nalm-6 cells in the G0/G1 phase increased from 70.4 (UT) to 84.1% (Lenti-AIOLOS) (P<0.01), and the S-phase cells decreased from 20.3 (UT) to 11.7% (Lenti-AIOLOS) (P<0.01). Total apoptotic cells significantly decreased in AIOLOS-transfected Nalm-6 cells (10.75%) compared with those in the Lenti-Mock (17.00%) or UT group (19.05%) (P<0.01). In particular, the difference between the groups in the percentage of late apoptotic cells was significant (2.85 vs. 7.95%; P<0.01). In addition, overexpression of AIOLOS resulted in upregulation of BCL-2 and downregulation of CCND3, BAX, IKZF1 and NF-κB. No changes were detected on C-MYC and P27. Our findings indicate that lentivirus-mediated overexpression of AIOLOS in Nalm-6 cells could inhibit cell proliferation, suppress cell apoptosis and arrest the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase in vitro.
Change in transcription start site (TSS) usage is an important mechanism for the control of transcription process, and has a significant effect on the isoforms being transcribed. One of the goals in the study of TSS is the understanding of how and why their usage differs in different tissues or under different conditions. In light of recent efforts in the mapping of transcription start site landscape using high-throughput sequencing approaches, a quantitative and automated method is needed to process all the data that are being produced. In this work we propose a statistical approach that will classify changes in TSS distribution between different samples into several categories of changes that may have biological significance. Genes selected by the classifiers can then be analyzed together with additional supporting data to determine their biological significance. We use a set of time-course TSS data from mouse dendritic cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to demonstrate the usefulness of our method.
Aggressive carcinomas tend to adopt behaviors normally restricted to lymphocytes, including anchorage-independent mobilization, response to chemokines, and modulation of local inflammatory conditions. In a recent study we identified the lymphocyte-restricted chromatin regulator Aiolos as an epigenetic driver of lymphocyte mimicry in lung cancer that links immune cell development to metastatic behavior.
Comment in    Blood. 2014 Mar 13;123(11):1626-7.
Cereblon (CRBN), the molecular target of lenalidomide and pomalidomide, is a substrate receptor of the cullin ring E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, CRL4(CRBN) . T cell co-stimulation by lenalidomide or pomalidomide is cereblon dependent: however, the CRL4(CRBN) substrates responsible for T cell co-stimulation have yet to be identified. Here we demonstrate that interaction of the transcription factors Ikaros (IKZF1, encoded by the IKZF1 gene) and Aiolos (IKZF3, encoded by the IKZF3 gene) with CRL4(CRBN) is induced by lenalidomide or pomalidomide. Each agent promotes Aiolos and Ikaros binding to CRL4(CRBN) with enhanced ubiquitination leading to cereblon-dependent proteosomal degradation in T lymphocytes. We confirm that Aiolos and Ikaros are transcriptional repressors of interleukin-2 expression. The findings link lenalidomide- or pomalidomide-induced degradation of these transcriptional suppressors to well documented T cell activation. Importantly, Aiolos could serve as a proximal pharmacodynamic marker for lenalidomide and pomalidomide, as healthy human subjects administered lenalidomide demonstrated Aiolos degradation in their peripheral T cells. In conclusion, we present a molecular model in which drug binding to cereblon results in the interaction of Ikaros and Aiolos to CRL4(CRBN) , leading to their ubiquitination, subsequent proteasomal degradation and T cell activation.
A variety of genetic alterations are considered hallmarks of cancer development and progression. The Ikaros gene family, encoding for key transcription factors in hematopoietic development, provides several examples as genetic defects in these genes are associated with the development of different types of leukemia. However, the complex patterns of expression of isoforms in Ikaros family genes has prevented their use as clinical markers. In this study, we propose the use of the expression profiles of the Ikaros isoforms to classify various hematological tumor diseases. We have standardized a quantitative PCR protocol to estimate the expression levels of the Ikaros gene exons. Our analysis reveals that these levels are associated with specific types of leukemia and we have found differences in the levels of expression relative to five interexonic Ikaros regions for all diseases studied. In conclusion, our method has allowed us to precisely discriminate between B-ALL, CLL and MM cases. Differences between the groups of lymphoid and myeloid pathologies were also identified in the same way.
Comment on    Haematologica. 2013 Aug;98(8):1226-31.    Haematologica. 2013 Dec;98(12):e151-2.
Comment in    Haematologica. 2013 Dec;98(12):e164-5.
Pre-B cell receptor (pre-BCR) signaling and migration from IL-7-rich environments cooperate to drive pre-B cell differentiation via transcriptional programs that remain unclear. We show that the Ikaros transcription factor is required for the differentiation of large pre-B to small pre-B cells. Mice deleted for Ikaros in pro/pre-B cells show a complete block of differentiation at the fraction C' stage, and Ikaros-null pre-B cells cannot differentiate upon withdrawal of IL-7 in vitro. Restoration of Ikaros function rescues pre-B cell differentiation in vitro and in vivo and depends on DNA binding. Ikaros is required for the down-regulation of the pre-BCR, Igκ germline transcription, and Ig L chain recombination. Furthermore, Ikaros antagonizes the IL-7-dependent regulation of >3,000 genes, many of which are up- or down-regulated between fractions C' and D. Affected genes include those important for survival, metabolism, B cell signaling, and function, as well as transcriptional regulators like Ebf1, Pax5, and the Foxo1 family. Our data thus identify Ikaros as a central regulator of IL-7 signaling and pre-B cell development.
Comment in    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Feb;11(2):65.    Science. 2014 Jan 17;343(6168):256-7.
Comment in    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Feb;11(2):65.    Science. 2014 Jan 17;343(6168):256-7.
We examined the constitutive function of the Ikaros (IK) transcription factor in blast cells from pediatric B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BPL) patients using multiple assay platforms and bioinformatics tools. We found no evidence of diminished IK expression or function for primary cells from high-risk BPL patients including a Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)(+) subset. Relapse clones as well as very aggressive in vivo clonogenic leukemic B-cell precursors isolated from spleens of xenografted NOD/SCID mice that developed overt leukemia after inoculation with primary leukemic cells of patients with BPL invariably and abundantly expressed intact IK protein. These results demonstrate that a lost or diminished IK function is not a characteristic feature of leukemic cells in Ph(+) or Ph(-) high-risk BPL.
Switches from the lymphoid to myeloid lineage during B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) treatment are considered rare and thus far have been detected in MLL-rearranged leukemia. Here, we describe a novel BCP-ALL subset, switching BCP-ALL or swALL, which demonstrated monocytosis early during treatment. Despite their monocytic phenotype, 'monocytoids' share immunoreceptor gene rearrangements with leukemic B lymphoblasts. All swALLs demonstrated BCP-ALL with CD2 positivity and no MLL alterations, and the proportion of swALLs cases among BCP-ALLs was unexpectedly high (4%). The upregulation of CEBPα and demethylation of the CEBPA gene were significant in blasts at diagnosis, prior to the time when most of the switching occurs. Intermediate stages between CD14(neg)CD19(pos)CD34(pos) B lymphoblasts and CD14(pos)CD19(neg)CD34(neg) 'monocytoids' were detected, and changes in the expression of PAX5, PU1, M-CSFR, GM-CSFR and other genes accompanied the switch. Alterations in the Ikaros and ERG genes were more frequent in swALL patients; however, both were altered in only a minority of swALLs. Moreover, switching could be recapitulated in vitro and in mouse xenografts. Although children with swALL respond slowly to initial therapy, risk-based ALL therapy appears the treatment of choice for swALL. SwALL shows that transdifferentiating into monocytic lineage is specifically associated with CEBPα changes and CD2 expression.
BACKGROUND: Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), a heterogeneous disease that includes multiple subtypes is defined by cell lineage and chromosome anomalies. Previous genome-wide association studies have reported several ARID5B and IKZF1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with the incidence of ALL. High-resolution melting (HRM) analysis is a rapid and convenient technique to detect SNPs; we thereby detected SNPs in ARID5B and IKZF1 genes.METHODS: We enrolled 79 pediatric ALL patients and 80 healthy controls. Polymorphic variants of IKZF1 (rs6964823, rs4132601, and rs6944602) and ARID5B (rs7073837, rs10740055, and rs7089424) were detected by HRM, and SNPs were analyzed for association with childhood ALL.RESULTS: The distribution of genotype rs7073837 in ARID5B significantly differed between ALL and controls (P=0.046), while those of IKZF1 (rs6964823, rs4132601, and rs6944602) and ARID5B (rs10740055 and rs7089424) did not. We analyzed the association for SNPs with B lineage ALL to find rs7073837 in ARID5B, conferring a higher risk for B lineage ALL (odds ratio, OR=1.70, 95% confidence interval, CI=1.01-2.87, P=0.049).CONCLUSION: HRM is a practical method to detect SNPs in ARID5B and IKZF1 genes. We found that rs7073837 in ARID5B correlated with a risk for childhood B lineage ALL.
Comment on    Blood. 2013 Oct 31;122(18):3149-59.
Th17 cells are important effectors of immunity to extracellular pathogens, particularly at mucosal surfaces, but they can also contribute to pathologic tissue inflammation and autoimmunity. Defining the multitude of factors that influence their development is therefore of paramount importance. Our previous studies using Ikaros(-/-) CD4+ T cells implicated Ikaros in Th1 versus Th2 lineage decisions. Here we demonstrate that Ikaros also regulates Th17 differentiation through its ability to promote expression of multiple Th17 lineage-determining genes, including Ahr, Runx1, Rorc, Il17a, and Il22. Ikaros exerts its influence on the chromatin remodeling of these loci at two distinct stages in CD4+ T helper cell development. In naive cells, Ikaros is required to limit repressive chromatin modifications at these gene loci, thus maintaining the potential for expression of the Th17 gene program. Subsequently, Ikaros is essential for the acquisition of permissive histone marks in response to Th17 polarizing signals. Additionally, Ikaros represses the expression of genes that limit Th17 development, including Foxp3 and Tbx21. These data define new targets of the action of Ikaros and indicate that Ikaros plays a critical role in CD4+ T cell differentiation by integrating specific cytokine cues and directing epigenetic modifications that facilitate activation or repression of relevant genes that drive T cell lineage choice.
Comment on    Blood. 2013 Oct 10;122(15):2622-9.
Comment on    Blood. 2013 Oct 3;122(14):2358-68.
Erratum in    Leukemia. 2015 May;29(5):1222.
Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN) is a very rare disease that currently lacks genomic and genetic biomarkers to assist in its clinical management. We performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) of three BPDCN cases. Based on these data, we designed a resequencing approach to identify mutations in 38 selected genes in 25 BPDCN samples. WES revealed 37-99 deleterious gene mutations per exome with no common affected genes between patients, but with clear overlap in terms of molecular and disease pathways (hematological and dermatological disease). We identified for the first time deleterious mutations in IKZF3, HOXB9, UBE2G2 and ZEB2 in human leukemia. Target sequencing identified 29 recurring genes, ranging in prevalence from 36% for previously known genes, such as TET2, to 12-16% for newly identified genes, such as IKZF3 or ZEB2. Half of the tumors had mutations affecting either the DNA methylation or chromatin remodeling pathways. The clinical analysis revealed that patients with mutations in DNA methylation pathway had a significantly reduced overall survival (P=0.047). We provide the first mutational profiling of BPDCN. The data support the current WHO classification of the disease as a myeloid disorder and provide a biological rationale for the incorporation of epigenetic therapies for its treatment.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are essential for the initiation of an effective immune response. Despite this, our understanding of the molecular regulation of this important cell type has lagged significantly behind that of other lymphoid populations such as B and T cells, but recent development of various tools has greatly facilitated progress in the field. Here, we review the transcription factors that drive peripheral DC subset fate decisions. While Pu.1, Ikaros, and Gfi-1 are essential for precursor DCs to give rise to monocytes, conventional DCs, and plasmacytoid DCs, the balance between E2-2 and Id2 directs committed precursors along a pDC or cDC lineage, respectively. Several transcription factors such as Batf3, Nfil3, and Id2 are required for different DC subsets at steady-state and drive segregation into the individual DCs subsets late in development in the CD8 lineage. During inflammation, CD8-expressing DCs emerge that feature many of the hallmarks of classical CD8α(+) DCs but surprisingly do not depend on the same transcription factors. Thus, the immune system has developed two pathways of DC differentiation that enable it to maintain homeostatic balance and to respond rapidly to the emergency requirement for DCs that might occur during infection.
FOXP3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) are critical regulators of self-tolerance and immune homeostasis. In mice and humans, two subsets of FOXP3(+) Tregs have been defined based on their differential expression of Helios, a transcription factor of the Ikaros family. Whereas the origin, specificity, and differential function of the two subsets are as yet a source of controversy, their characterization thus far has been limited by the absence of surface markers to distinguish them. In this article, we show that human memory Helios(+) and Helios(-) Tregs are phenotypically distinct and can be separated ex vivo based on their differential expression of IL-1RI, which is restricted to Helios(-) Tregs, in combination with CCR7. The two populations isolated using this strategy are distinct with respect to the expression of other Ikaros family members. Namely, whereas Eos, which has been reported to mediate FOXP3-dependent gene silencing, is expressed in Helios(+) Tregs, Aiolos, which is involved in the differentiation of TH17 and induced Tregs, is instead expressed in Helios(-) Tregs. In addition, whereas both subsets are suppressive ex vivo, Helios(-) Tregs display increased suppressive capacity in comparison to Helios(+) Tregs, but respond to IL-1β by downregulating their suppressive activity. Together, these data support the concept that human Helios(-) memory Tregs encompass induced Tregs that can readily respond to changes in the environment by modulating their suppressive capacity.
Oncogenic subtypes in childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) are used for risk stratification. However, a significant number of BCP-ALL patients are still genetically unassigned. Using array-comparative genomic hybridization in a selected BCP-ALL cohort, we characterized a recurrent V(D)J-mediated intragenic deletion of the ERG gene (ERG(del)). A breakpoint-specific PCR assay was designed and used to screen an independent non-selected cohort of 897 children aged 1-17 years treated for BCP-ALL in the EORTC-CLG 58951 trial. ERG(del) was found in 29/897 patients (3.2%) and was mutually exclusive of known classifying genetic lesions, suggesting that it characterized a distinct leukemia entity. ERG(del) was associated with higher age (median 7.0 vs. 4.0 years, P=0.004), aberrant CD2 expression (43.5% vs. 3.7%, P<0.001) and frequent IKZF1 Δ4-7 deletions (37.9% vs. 5.3%, P<0.001). However, ERG(del) patients had a very good outcome, with an 8-year event-free survival (8-y EFS) and an 8-year overall survival of 86.4% and 95.6%, respectively, suggesting that the IKZF1 deletion had no impact on prognosis in this genetic subtype. Accordingly, within patients with an IKZF1 Δ4-7 deletion, those with ERG(del) had a better outcome (8-y EFS: 85.7% vs. 51.3%; hazard ratio: 0.16; 95% confidence interval: 0.02-1.20; P=0.04). These findings have implications for further stratification including IKZF1 status.
Comment on    Nat Immunol. 2013 Oct;14(10):1073-83.
Author information:(1)Hematology and Oncology, Shanghai Children's Medical Center, Shanghai 200127, China. chenjingscmc@hotmail.com.
DOI: 10.1097/PAT.0b013e3283653bd1PMID: 24018820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Nat Immunol. 2013 Oct;14(10):1073-83. doi: 10.1038/ni.2707. Epub 2013 Sep 8.
Comment in    Blood. 2013 Oct 31;122(18):3091-2.
The Ikaros gene (Ikzf1) encodes a family of zinc-finger transcription factors implicated in hematopoietic cell differentiation. Here we show that Ikaros suppresses the development of basophils, which are proinflammatory cells of the myeloid lineage. In the absence of extrinsic basophil-inducing signals, Ikaros(-/-) (Ik(-/-)) mice exhibit increases in basophil numbers in blood and bone marrow and in their direct precursors in bone marrow and the spleen, as well as decreased numbers of intestinal mast cells. In vitro culture of Ik(-/-) bone marrow under mast cell differentiation conditions also results in predominance of basophils. Basophil expansion is associated with an increase in basophil progenitors, increased expression of Cebpa and decreased expression of mast cell-specifying genes Hes1 and microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (Mitf). Ikaros directly associates with regulatory sites within Cebpa and Hes1 and regulates the acquisition of permissive H3K4 tri-methylation marks at the Cebpa locus and reduces H3K4 tri-methylation at the Hes1 promoter. Ikaros blockade in cultured cells or transfer of Ik(-/-) bone marrow into irradiated Ik(+/+) recipients also results in increased basophils confirming a cell-intrinsic effect of Ikaros on basophil development. We conclude that Ikaros is a suppressor of basophil differentiation under steady-state conditions and that it acts by regulating permissive chromatin modifications of Cebpa.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substrance and Function of Natural Medicines, Institute of Materia Medica, Peking Union Medical College & Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100050, China. luduo@imm.ac.cn
Diminished Ikaros function has been implicated in the pathogenesis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), the most common form of childhood cancer. Therefore, a stringent regulation of Ikaros is of paramount importance for normal lymphocyte ontogeny. Here we provide genetic and biochemical evidence for a previously unknown function of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) as a partner and posttranslational regulator of Ikaros, a zinc finger-containing DNA-binding protein that plays a pivotal role in immune homeostasis. We demonstrate that BTK phosphorylates Ikaros at unique phosphorylation sites S214 and S215 in the close vicinity of its zinc finger 4 (ZF4) within the DNA binding domain, thereby augmenting its nuclear localization and sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Our results further demonstrate that BTK-induced activating phosphorylation is critical for the optimal transcription factor function of Ikaros.
Comment in    Blood. 2013 Oct 10;122(15):2531-2.
BACKGROUND: The transactivating response (TAR) element of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) is the source of two functional microRNAs (miRNAs), miR-TAR-5p and miR-TAR-3p. The objective of this study was to characterize the post-transcriptional regulation of host messenger RNAs (mRNAs) relevant to HIV-1 pathogenesis by HIV-1 TAR miRNAs.RESULTS: We demonstrated that TAR miRNAs derived from HIV-1 can incorporate into host effector Argonaute protein complexes, which is required if these miRNAs are to regulate host mRNA expression. Bioinformatic predictions and reporter gene activity assays identified regulatory elements complementary and responsive to miR-TAR-5p and miR-TAR-3p in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of several candidate genes involved in apoptosis and cell survival. These include Caspase 8, Aiolos, Ikaros and Nucleophosmin (NPM)/B23. Analyses of Jurkat cells that stably expressed HIV-1 TAR or contained a full-length latent HIV provirus suggested that HIV-1 TAR miRNAs could regulate the expression of genes in T cells that affect the balance between apoptosis and cell survival.CONCLUSIONS: HIV-1 TAR miRNAs may contribute to the replication cycle and pathogenesis of HIV-1, by regulating host genes involved in the intricate balance between apoptosis and infected cell, to induce conditions that promote HIV-1 propagation and survival.
Genetic alterations of Ikaros family zinc finger protein 1 (IKZF1), point mutations in Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and overexpression of cytokine receptor-like factor 2 (CRLF2) were recently reported to be associated with poor outcomes in pediatric B-cell precursor (BCP)-ALL. Herein, we conducted genetic analyses of IKZF1 deletion, point mutation of JAK2 exon 16, 17, and 21, CRLF2 expression, the presence of P2RY8-CRLF2 fusion and F232C mutation in CRLF2 in 202 pediatric BCP-ALL patients newly diagnosed and registered in Japan Childhood Leukemia Study ALL02 protocol to find out if alterations in these genes are determinants of poor outcome. All patients showed good response to initial prednisolone (PSL) treatment. Ph⁺, infantile, and Down syndrome-associated ALL were excluded. Deletion of IKZF1 occurred in 19/202 patients (9.4%) and CRLF2 overexpression occurred in 16/107 (15.0%), which are similar to previous reports. Patients with IKZF1 deletion had reduced event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) compared to those in patients without IKZF1 deletion (5-year EFS, 62.7% vs. 88.8%, 5-year OS, 71.8% vs. 90.2%). Our data also showed significantly inferior 5-year EFS (48.6% vs. 84.7%, log rank P = 0.0003) and 5-year OS (62.3% vs. 85.4%, log rank P = 0.009) in NCI-HR patients (n = 97). JAK2 mutations and P2RY8-CRLF2 fusion were rarely detected. IKZF1 deletion was identified as adverse prognostic factor even in pediatric BCP-ALL in NCI-HR showing good response to PSL.
Erratum in    Arthritis Rheum. 2014 Jun;66(6):1671.
Comment in    Blood. 2013 Oct 3;122(14):2291-2.
The Ikaros gene encodes a Krüppel-like zinc-finger transcription factor involved in hematopoiesis regulation. Ikaros has been established as one of the most clinically relevant tumor suppressors in several hematological malignancies. In fact, expression of dominant negative Ikaros isoforms is associated with adult B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, acute myeloid leukemia and adult and juvenile chronic myeloid leukemia. Here, we report the isolation of a novel, non-canonical Ikaros splice variant, called Ikaros 11 (Ik11). Ik11 is structurally related to known dominant negative Ikaros isoforms, due to the lack of a functional DNA-binding domain. Interestingly, Ik11 is the first Ikaros splice variant missing the transcriptional activation domain. Indeed, we demonstrated that Ik11 works as a dominant negative protein, being able to dimerize with Ikaros DNA-binding isoforms and inhibit their functions, at least in part by retaining them in the cytoplasm. Notably, we demonstrated that Ik11 is the first dominant negative Ikaros isoform to be aberrantly expressed in B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders, such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Aberrant expression of Ik11 interferes with both proliferation and apoptotic pathways, providing a mechanism for Ik11 involvement in tumor pathogenesis. Thus, Ik11 could represent a novel marker for B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders.
Despite the favorable prognosis of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), a substantial subset of patients relapses. As this occurs not only in the high risk but also in the standard/intermediate groups, the presently used risk stratification is suboptimal. The underlying mechanisms for treatment failure include the presence of genetic changes causing insensitivity to the therapy administered. To identify relapse-associated aberrations, we performed single-nucleotide polymorphism array analyses of 307 uniformly treated, consecutive pediatric ALL cases accrued during 1992-2011. Recurrent aberrations of 14 genes in patients who subsequently relapsed or had induction failure were detected. Of these, deletions/uniparental isodisomies of ADD3, ATP10A, EBF1, IKZF1, PAN3, RAG1, SPRED1 and TBL1XR1 were significantly more common in B-cell precursor ALL patients who relapsed compared with those remaining in complete remission. In univariate analyses, age (≥10 years), white blood cell counts (>100 × 10(9)/l), t(9;22)(q34;q11), MLL rearrangements, near-haploidy and deletions of ATP10A, IKZF1, SPRED1 and the pseudoautosomal 1 regions on Xp/Yp were significantly associated with decreased 10-year event-free survival, with IKZF1 abnormalities being an independent risk factor in multivariate analysis irrespective of the risk group. Older age and deletions of IKZF1 and SPRED1 were also associated with poor overall survival. Thus, analyses of these genes provide clinically important information.
Author information:(1)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Tianjin, China.
BACKGROUND: Genome-wide analysis studies have demonstrated that IKZF1, CRLF2, and JAK2 gene alterations correlate with poor prognosis in pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). However, the prognostic significance for these gene alterations has not been clarified in Japanese patients.PROCEDURE: A total of 194 patients with BCP-ALL enrolled in the Japanese Children's Cancer & Leukemia Study Group ALL 2004 clinical trial were assessed for the presence of three different gene alterations: IKZF1 deletions, CRLF2 expression and JAK2 mutation.RESULTS: IKZF1 deletions and CRLF2-high expression were identified in 22 of 177 (12%) patients and in 15 of 141 (11%) patients, respectively. However, JAK2 R683 mutation was detected only one of 177 patients. The 4-year event-free survival (4y-EFS) was different when comparing patients with or without IKZF1 deletions (68.2% vs. 85.2%; P = 0.04) and was also different when comparing patients with different CRLF2 expression levels (high, 66.7% vs. low, 88.1%; P = 0.03). The differences in 4y-EFS were statistically significant in patients with ALL in the National Cancer Institute (NCI)-high risk group (HR-ALL) (IKZF1 deletions: yes, 58.3% vs. no, 87.0%, P = 0.02; CRLF2 expression: high, 55.6% vs. low, 85.3%, P = 0.04) but not in patients with ALL in the NCI-standard risk group (SR-ALL; IKZF1 deletions: yes, 80.0% vs. no, 84.4%, P = 0.75; CRLF2 expression: high, 83.3% vs. low, 89.2%, P = 0.77). Coexistence of IKZF1 deletions and CRLF2-high expression associated with poor outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: IKZF1 deletions and CRLF2-high expression predicted poor outcomes in patients with HR-ALL but not in patients with SR-ALL in our Japanese cohort.
Comment in    Immunity. 2013 Jun 27;38(6):1081-3.
Alterations in the IKZF1 gene are associated with poor prognosis in pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). We examined the relationship between IKZF1 alterations and clinical findings in 78 adult patients with B-ALL. Aberrant isoforms of IKZF1 were detected using RT-PCR. The copy numbers of IKZF1 exons and fusion genes caused by exon deletions were determined using RQ-PCR and genomic PCR, respectively. We detected aberrant IKZF1 isoforms in 20 of the 78 patients (13 Ik6 and seven Ik10) and deletions of the entire or parts of the IKZF1 gene in 40 of 70 patients. No IKZF1 point mutations were detected by direct sequencing. Nineteen Ik6 and Ik10 isoforms had been generated through genomic exon deletions, but one through aberrant splicing. In total, 41 of the 78 (52.6%) patients harbored IKZF1 alterations, which were identified in 20 of 24 (83.3%) patients with Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive B-ALL compared with 21 of 54 (38.9%) Ph-negative B-ALL (P = 0.0004). IKZF1 alterations are highly involved even in adults with B-ALL. To fully detect IKZF1 alterations, several methods with alternative approaches are required. To elucidate the clinical significance of IKZF1 alterations in adult B-ALL, our study warrants prospective clinical studies with a full analysis of IKZF1 alterations.
Ikaros (Ik) is a critical regulator of hematopoietic gene expression. Here, we established that the Ik interactions with GATA transcription factors and cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (Cdk9), a component of the positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb), are required for transcriptional activation of Ik target genes. A detailed dissection of Ik-GATA and Ik-Cdk9 protein interactions indicated that the C-terminal zinc finger domain of Ik interacts directly with the C-terminal zinc fingers of GATA1, GATA2, and GATA3, whereas the N-terminal zinc finger domain of Ik is required for interaction with the kinase and T-loop domains of Cdk9. The relevance of these interactions was demonstrated in vivo in COS-7 and primary hematopoietic cells, in which Ik facilitated Cdk9 and GATA protein recruitment to gene promoters and transcriptional activation. Moreover, the oncogenic isoform Ik6 did not efficiently interact with Cdk9 or GATA proteins in vivo and perturbed Cdk9/P-TEFb recruitment to Ik target genes, thereby affecting transcription elongation. Finally, characterization of a novel nuclear Ik isoform revealed that Ik exon 6 is dispensable for interactions with Mi2 and GATA proteins but is essential for the Cdk9 interaction. Thus, Ik is central to the Ik-GATA-Cdk9 regulatory network, which is broadly utilized for gene regulation in hematopoietic cells.
Author information:(1)Immunogenetics Laboratory, University of Turku, Turku, Finland; Department of Pediatrics, Turku University Hospital, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
Comment on    Immunity. 2013 May 23;38(5):998-1012.
The t(12;21) chromosomal translocation, targeting the gene encoding the RUNX1 transcription factor, is observed in 25% of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and is an initiating event in the disease. To elucidate the mechanism by which RUNX1 disruption initiates leukemogenesis, we investigated its normal role in murine B-cell development. This study revealed 2 critical functions of Runx1: (1) to promote survival and development of progenitors specified to the B-cell lineage, a function that can be substituted by ectopic Bcl2 expression, and (2) to enable the developmental transition through the pre-B stage triggered by the pre-B-cell antigen receptor (pre-BCR). Gene expression analysis and genomewide Runx1 occupancy studies support the hypothesis that Runx1 reinforces the transcription factor network governing early B-cell survival and development and specifically regulates genes encoding members of the Lyn kinase subfamily (key integrators of interleukin-7 and pre-BCR signaling) and the stage-specific transcription factors SpiB and Aiolos (critical downstream effectors of pre-BCR signaling). Interrogation of expression databases of 257 ALL samples demonstrated the specific down-regulation of the SPIB and IKZF3 genes (the latter encoding AIOLOS) in t(12;21) ALL, providing novel insight into the mechanism by which the translocation blocks B-cell development and promotes leukemia.
Interactions between common germline variants in ARID5B and IKZF1 and other known childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) risk factors were queried using biospecimens and data from 770 ALL cases and 384 controls. Case-control comparisons revealed dose-dependent associations between ARID5B rs10821936, ARID5B rs10994982, and IKZF1 rs11978267 and childhood ALL overall, and B lineage and B lineage hyperdiploid ALL examined separately (all allelic odds ratios ≥1.33, Ptrend≤0.001). No heterogeneity was observed between ORs for males and females (all Pinteraction≥0.48). Likewise, no significant genotype-birth weight interactions were detected (all Pinteraction≥0.12) among cases. These results indicate similar ALL risk across strata of known risk factors.
Comment in    Immunity. 2013 May 23;38(5):849-50.
Chromosomal translocations resulting in chimeric fusion genes are prototypic for pediatric leukemia patients. The most known fusions are ETV6-RUNX1 or BCR-ABL1 in B-cell progenitor (BCP)-ALL, and rearrangements of MLL in pediatric ALL and AML. Genome-wide sequencing projects have revealed additional, recurrent gene mutations in B cell malignancies. One of these mutations comprises the IKZF1 gene, encoding the IKAROS transcription factor which is one of the essential transcription factors driving lymphoid development. IKZF1 deletions were first identified by SNP arrays in ALL patients, and later identified with a high prevalence in BCR-ABL1(+) patients. IKZF1 deletions turned out to be an independent prognostic marker associated with a poor outcome. Here, we characterized IKZF1 deletions in pediatric BCP-ALL patients by combining MLPA mapping experiments with long distance inverse PCR. The aim of our study was also to compare existing methods with our approach. Our attempt confirmed many of the existing data but revealed a more complex pattern of recombination sites, including a total of 4 recombination hotspots. This extended knowledge was translated into a novel, multiplex PCR assay that allows to perform IKZF1 deletion analyses by using a 2-tube PCR approach.
MicroRNAs control the genes involved in hematopoietic stem cell (HSCs) survival, proliferation and differentiation. The over-expression of miR-146 and miR-150 has been reported during differentiation of HSCs into T-lymphoid lineage. Therefore, in this study we evaluated the effect of their over-expression on CD133+ cells differentiation to T cells. miR-146a and miR-150 were separately and jointly transduced to human cord blood derived CD133+ cells (>97% purity). We used qRT-PCR to assess the expression of CD2, CD3ε, CD4, CD8, CD25, T cell receptor alpha (TCR-α) and Ikaros genes in differentiated cells 4 and 8 days after transduction of the miRNAs. Following the over-expression of miR-146a, significant up-regulation of CD2, CD4, CD25 and Ikaros genes were observed (P<0.01). On the other hand, over-expression of miR-150 caused an increase in the expression of Ikaros, CD4, CD25 and TCR-α. To evaluate the combinatorial effect of miR-146a and miR-150, transduction of both miRNAs was concurrently performed which led to increase in the expression of Ikaros, CD4 and CD3 genes. In conclusion, it seems that the effect of miR-150 and miR-146a on the promotion of T cell differentiation is time-dependant. Moreover, miRNAs could be used either as substitutes or complements of the conventional differentiation protocols for higher efficiency.
Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) that focus on childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), the most common malignancy in children younger than 15 years old, have found evidence that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in IKZF1 (7p12.2), ARID5B (10q21.2) and CEBPE (14q11.2) are strongly related to the risk of childhood ALL. These polymorphisms may lead to abnormal expression and dysfunction of the corresponding transcription factors and are likely to increase the risk of ALL. To validate the relationship between these SNPs and the risk of childhood ALL in Chinese population, we conducted a case-control study of 570 ALL cases and 673 controls. We determined that the SNP rs10821936 in ARID5B was statistically significantly associated with the risk of childhood ALL (P<0.0001). The results were also significant for the subgroup analysis of high-risk, medium-risk and low-risk ALL as well as B-lineage ALL. Statistically significant differences were not found in the SNPs for IKZF1 and CEBPE. In conclusion, ARID5B rs10821936 could serve as a potential biomarker for assessing the risk of childhood ALL in Chinese children.
Comment on    J Immunol. 2013 Mar 1;190(5):2001-8.
Molecular abnormalities involved in the multistep leukemogenesis of adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) remain to be clarified. Based on our integrated database, we focused on the expression patterns and levels of Ikaros family genes, Ikaros, Helios, and Aiolos, in ATL patients and HTLV-1 carriers. The results revealed profound deregulation of Helios expression, a pivotal regulator in the control of T-cell differentiation and activation. The majority of ATL samples (32/37 cases) showed abnormal splicing of Helios expression, and four cases did not express Helios. In addition, novel genomic loss in Helios locus was observed in 17/168 cases. We identified four ATL-specific short Helios isoforms and revealed their dominant-negative function. Ectopic expression of ATL-type Helios isoform as well as knockdown of normal Helios or Ikaros promoted T-cell growth. Global mRNA profiling and pathway analysis showed activation of several signaling pathways important for lymphocyte proliferation and survival. These data provide new insights into the molecular involvement of Helios function in the leukemogenesis and phenotype of ATL cells, indicating that Helios deregulation is one of the novel molecular hallmarks of ATL.
Comment in    Haematologica. 2013 Dec;98(12):e151-2.    Haematologica. 2013 Dec;98(12):e164-5.
Ikaros, encoded by the IKZF1 gene, is a pivotal transcription factor whose expression and utilization is dynamically altered during hematopoietic development. However, the molecular mechanisms controlling the transcription of the IKZF1 gene are unclear in lung cancer cell lines. Here we show the role of Ikaros in a cohort of grade IIIA lung cancer patients, with particular emphasis on its relationship with clinical outcomes and expression levels. The expression levels of Ikaros were positively correlated with the prognosis in the lung cancer patients. We also demonstrated that Ikaros expression is ectopically activated in a panel of lung cancer cell lines primarily through demethylation of its promoter. Moreover, gain-of-function experiments revealed that Ikaros inhibits migration and invasion of lung cancer cells in vitro. Our results thus shed light on how Ikaros can act as a lineage competency factor to facilitate lung cancer progression.
Comment on    Blood. 2013 Mar 28;121(13):2440-51.
Author information:(1)Laboratory for Transcriptional Regulation, RIKEN Research Center for Allergy and Immunology.
Comment in    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2013 Oct 2;105(19):1512-3.
In childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia, cytogenetics is important in diagnosis and as an indicator of response to therapy, thus playing a key role in risk stratification of patients for treatment. Little is known of the relationship between different cytogenetic subtypes in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia and the recently reported copy number abnormalities affecting significant leukemia associated genes. In a consecutive series of 1427 childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients, we have determined the incidence and type of copy number abnormalities using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. We have shown strong links between certain deletions and cytogenetic subtypes, including the novel association between RB1 deletions and intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21. In this study, we characterized the different copy number abnormalities and show heterogeneity of PAX5 and IKZF1 deletions and the recurrent nature of RB1 deletions. Whole gene losses are often indicative of larger deletions, visible by conventional cytogenetics. An increased number of copy number abnormalities is associated with NCI high risk, specifically deletions of IKZF1 and CDKN2A/B, which occur more frequently among these patients. IKZF1 deletions and rearrangements of CRLF2 among patients with undefined karyotypes may point to the poor risk BCR-ABL1-like group. In conclusion, this study has demonstrated in a large representative cohort of children with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia that the pattern of copy number abnormalities is highly variable according to the primary genetic abnormality.
Coriolus versicolor has been known to be an immune stimulator effects. For further understanding of the phagocytic activity and the intracellular mechanisms of β-glucan from C. versicolor (CVG), we examined the phagocytic activity, phosphorylation of Akt and CK2, nucleus translocation of p65 and Ikaros activity in β-glucan-treated macrophages using RT-PCR, western blotting, and IP assay. The role of Ikaros in regulating phagocytic effects of CVG was also determined using Ikaros dominant negative isoform cells. This study suggests that CK2/Ikaros are positive regulators and novel signaling pathway involved in phagocytosis and contributes to elucidating the mechanism underlying phagocytic activity induced by β-glucan.
Members of the Ikaros family of zinc-finger transcription factors have been shown to be critical for immune and blood cell development. However, the role of the most divergent family member, Pegasus, has remained elusive, although it shows conservation to invertebrate Hunchback proteins that influence embryonic patterning through regulation of homeodomain genes. Zebrafish was employed as a relevant model to investigate the function of Pegasus since it possesses a single pegasus orthologue with high homology to its mammalian counterparts. During zebrafish embryogenesis pegasus transcripts were initially maternally-derived and later replaced by zygotic expression in the diencephalon, tectum, hindbrain, thymus, eye, and ultimately the exocrine pancreas and intestine. Morpholino-mediated knockdown of the zebrafish pegasus gene resulted in disrupted left-right asymmetry of the gut and pancreas. Molecular analysis indicated that zebrafish Pegasus localised to the nucleus in discrete non-nucleolar structures and bound the 'atypical' DNA sequence GN3GN2G, confirming its presumed role as a transcriptional regulator. In vivo transcriptome analysis identified candidate target genes, several of which encoded homeodomain transcription factors. One of these, pitx2, implicated in left-right asymmetry, possessed appropriate 'atypical' Pegasus binding sites in its promoter. Knockdown of Pegasus affected both the level and asymmetry of pitx2 expression, as well as disrupting the asymmetry of the lefty2 and spaw genes, explaining the perturbed left-right patterning in pegasus morphants. Collectively these results provide the first definitive insights into the in vivo role of Pegasus, supporting the notion that it acts as a broader regulator of development, with potential parallels to the related invertebrate Hunchback proteins.
The Ikaros family of transcription factors is critical for normal T cell development while limiting malignant transformation. Mature CD8 T cells express multiple Ikaros family members, yet little is known about their function in this context. To test the functions of this gene family, we used retroviral transduction to express a naturally occurring, dominant negative (DN) isoform of Ikaros in activated CD8 T cells. Notably, expression of DN Ikaros profoundly enhanced the competitive advantage of activated CD8 T cells cultured in IL-12, such that by 6 days of culture, DN Ikaros-transduced cells were 100-fold more abundant than control cells. Expression of a DN isoform of Helios, a related Ikaros-family transcription factor, conferred a similar advantage to transduced cells in IL-12. While DN Ikaros-transduced cells had higher expression of the IL-2 receptor alpha chain, DN Ikaros-transduced cells achieved their competitive advantage through an IL-2 independent mechanism. Finally, the competitive advantage of DN Ikaros-transduced cells was manifested in vivo, following adoptive transfer of transduced cells. These data identify the Ikaros family of transcription factors as regulators of cytokine responsiveness in activated CD8 T cells, and suggest a role for this family in influencing effector and memory CD8 T cell differentiation.
Phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK1) controls the activation of a subset of AGC kinases. Using a conditional knockout of PDK1 in haematopoietic cells, we demonstrate that PDK1 is essential for B cell development. B-cell progenitors lacking PDK1 arrested at the transition of pro-B to pre-B cells, due to a cell autonomous defect. Loss of PDK1 decreased the expression of the IgH chain in pro-B cells due to impaired recombination of the IgH distal variable segments, a process coordinated by the transcription factor Pax5. The expression of Pax5 in pre-B cells was decreased in PDK1 knockouts, which correlated with reduced expression of the Pax5 target genes IRF4, IRF8 and Aiolos. As a result, Ccnd3 is upregulated in PDK1 knockout pre-B cells and they have an impaired ability to undergo cell-cycle arrest, a necessary event for Ig light chain rearrangement. Instead, these cells underwent apoptosis that correlated with diminished expression of the pro-survival gene Bcl2A1. Reintroduction of both Pax5 and Bcl2A1 together into PDK1 knockout pro-B cells restored their ability to differentiate in vitro into mature B cells.
Regulatory T cells (Treg) play pivotal role in the maintenance of immune homeostasis due to their suppressive abilities. It is important to understand the nature of Treg and the mechanisms by which they function. From recent studies, we can conclude that the development and function of Treg cells is strongly dependent on gene expression. Furthermore, a variety of transcription factors have been proposed to either maintain or inhibit their properties. As it was demonstrated a decade ago, Forkhead box P3 transcription factor (FoxP3), a Treg marker, has the ability to keep them on the right immunosuppressive track. Whether the Treg lineage has the ability of being suppressive or not depends on up- or down-regulation of the foxp3 gene. It can be controlled by other factors present inside the cell. Two of them, Helios and SATB1, are considered to be important in proper Treg development. Helios, a member of the Ikaros family, has been shown to up-regulate expression of FoxP3 protein, whereas SATB1 is known to inhibit its expression. In this review, we will discuss the relations between these three factors, and how they affect Treg development and function.
Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Treg) play a crucial role in regulating immune tolerance. The use of Treg to restore immune tolerance is considered an attractive novel approach to inhibit autoimmune disease, including type 1 diabetes (T1D), and to prevent rejection of organ transplants. In view of the goal of developing autologous Treg-based cell therapy for patients with long-term (>15 years) T1D, it will be necessary to expand a sufficient amount of functional Treg in vitro in order to study and compare Treg from T1D patients and healthy subjects. Our results have demonstrated that there is a comparable frequency of Treg in the peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) of patients with long-term T1D relative to those in healthy subjects; however, Th1 cells, but not Th17 cells, were increased in the T1D patients. Further, more Treg in PBLs from T1D patients than from healthy subjects expressed the CD45RO(+) memory cell phenotype, suggesting they were antigen-experienced cells. After isolation, Treg from both T1D patients and healthy subjects were successfully expanded with high purity. Although there was no difference in Helios expression on Treg in PBLs, in vitro expansion led to fewer Helios-expressing Treg from T1D patients than healthy subjects. While more Th1-like Treg expressing IFN-γ or TNF-α were found in the PBLs of T1D patients than healthy controls, there was no such difference in the expanded Treg. Importantly, expanded Treg from both subject groups were able to suppress autologous or allogeneic CD8(+) effector T cells equally well. Our findings demonstrate that a large number of ex vivo expanded functional Treg can be obtained from long-term T1D patients, although fewer expanded Treg expressed a high level of Helios. Thus, based on the positive outcomes, these potent expanded Treg from diabetic human patients may be useful in treating T1D or preventing islet graft rejection.
Erratum in    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Jun 9;112(23):E3088.
Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a pivotal role in control of autoimmunity and pathological immune responses. Helios, the Ikarus family transcription factor, binds to the Foxp3 promoter, stabilizing its expression, and is expressed in 70% of peripheral Tregs of healthy individuals. This frequency is altered during malignancy, infection, and autoimmunity, although the mechanisms that control proliferation and relative numbers of Helios(+/-) Tregs remain largely unknown. Using a T-cell-monocyte in vitro stimulation assay, we now show that proliferation of Helios(+) Tregs is inhibited by CD16(+) monocyte subset. Antibody blocking with anti-interleukin (IL)-12 reversed this inhibition, whereas addition of IL-12 suppressed Helios(+) Treg expansion, indicating that CD16(+) monocyte control of Helios(+) Treg numbers is mediated through IL-12. In contrast, proliferation of Helios(-) Tregs, which express higher levels of tumor necrosis factor receptor II (TNFRII), was suppressed by TNF-α, whereas anti-TNF-α and anti-TNFRII reversed the inhibition. CD16(-) monocyte subset was mainly responsible for TNF-α-mediated control of Helios(-) Treg expansion. Altogether, these data suggest a differential role for monocyte subsets in control of Helios(+/-) Treg development that is mediated by distinct inflammatory cytokines. These data may have important implications for understanding the pathogenesis as well as control of chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.
Comment in    J Immunol. 2013 May 1;190(9):4439-40.    J Immunol. 2013 May 1;190(9):4440-1.    Front Immunol. 2016;7:276.
The Ikaros transcription factor is crucial for many aspects of hematopoiesis. Loss of function mutations in IKZF1, the gene encoding Ikaros, have been implicated in adult and pediatric B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). These mutations result in haploinsufficiency of the Ikaros gene in approximately half of the cases. The remaining cases contain more severe or compound mutations that lead to the generation of dominant-negative proteins or complete loss of function. All IKZF1 mutations are associated with a poor prognosis. Here we review the current genetic, clinical and mechanistic evidence for the role of Ikaros as a tumor suppressor in B-ALL.
Comment in    Blood. 2013 Mar 28;121(13):2376-7.
The genetic basis of hypodiploid acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), a subtype of ALL characterized by aneuploidy and poor outcome, is unknown. Genomic profiling of 124 hypodiploid ALL cases, including whole-genome and exome sequencing of 40 cases, identified two subtypes that differ in the severity of aneuploidy, transcriptional profiles and submicroscopic genetic alterations. Near-haploid ALL with 24-31 chromosomes harbor alterations targeting receptor tyrosine kinase signaling and Ras signaling (71%) and the lymphoid transcription factor gene IKZF3 (encoding AIOLOS; 13%). In contrast, low-hypodiploid ALL with 32-39 chromosomes are characterized by alterations in TP53 (91.2%) that are commonly present in nontumor cells, IKZF2 (encoding HELIOS; 53%) and RB1 (41%). Both near-haploid and low-hypodiploid leukemic cells show activation of Ras-signaling and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-signaling pathways and are sensitive to PI3K inhibitors, indicating that these drugs should be explored as a new therapeutic strategy for this aggressive form of leukemia.
For more than a decade now, the regulatory T (Treg) cell has widely been considered as a critical subpopulation of T cells which can suppress effector T cell responses as well as suppressing the activity of other immune cells, such as mast cell, dendritic cells, and B cells. Treg cells have been broadly characterized as comprising of two main populations: thymus-derived natural Treg (nTreg) cells, and peripherally generated induced Treg (iTreg) cells. Both subsets have similar phenotypic characteristics and comparable suppressive function against T cell-mediated immune response and diseases. However, both Foxp3 positive Treg subsets exhibit some specific differences such as different mRNA transcripts and protein expression, epigenetic modification, and stability. These subtle differences reinforce the notion that they represent unique and distinct subsets. Accurately distinguishing iTregs from nTregs will help to clarify the biological features and contributions of each Treg subsets in peripheral tolerance, autoimmunity and tumor immunity. One difficult problem is that it has not been possible to distinguish iTregs from nTregs using surface markers until two recent articles were published to address this possibility. This review will focus on very recent advances in using molecular markers to differentiate these Treg subsets.
Ikaros family DNA-binding proteins are critical regulators of B-cell development. Because the current knowledge of Ikaros targets in B-cell progenitors is limited, we have identified genes that are bound and regulated by Ikaros in pre-B cells. To elucidate the role of Ikaros in B-cell lineage specification and differentiation, we analyzed the differential expression of Ikaros targets during the progression of multipotent to lymphoid-restricted progenitors, B- and T-cell lineage specification, and progression along the B-cell lineage. Ikaros targets accounted for one-half of all genes up-regulated during B-cell lineage specification in vivo, explaining the essential role of Ikaros in this process. Expression of the Ikaros paralogs Ikzf1 and Ikzf3 increases incrementally during B-cell progenitor differentiation, and, remarkably, inducible Ikaros expression in cycling pre-B cells was sufficient to drive transcriptional changes resembling the differentiation of cycling to resting pre-Bcells in vivo. The data suggest that Ikaros transcription factor dosage drives the progression of progenitors along a predetermined lineage by regulating multiple targets in key pathways, including pre-B–cell receptor signaling, cell cycle progression, and lymphocyte receptor rearrangement.Our approachmay be of general use to map the contribution of transcription factors to cell lineage commitment and differentiation.
Ikaros is a transcriptional regulator critical for B- and T-cell development. Recently, it has been shown to play a central role in facilitating rearrangement of antigen-receptor genes in B cells. Whether or not it had a similar function in this process in T cells, however, was a mystery. In this issue of the European Journal of Immunology, a role for Ikaros in T-cell receptor (TCR) rearrangement and expression of TCR-α chain genes is revealed in the study by Collins et al. [Eur. J. Immunol. 2013. 43: 521-532]. Ikaros functions in this capacity as an "accessibility factor," facilitating increased TCR-α chain gene transcription and accessibility of the locus to promote rearrangement. Interestingly, this study has also revealed differences in the mechanisms by which Ikaros promotes antigen-receptor rearrangement in B versus T cells, thereby suggesting that Ikaros may have lineage-specific functions in coordinating antigen-receptor rearrangement.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review summarizes current understanding of the molecular genetics of polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia, with an emphasis on JAK2V617F pathophysiology and effect on disease phenotype.RECENT FINDINGS: JAK2V617F exerts its effects on cell growth via janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signalling and interactions with other molecules that normally negatively regulate signalling, such as suppressor of cell signalling 3. The role of mutant JAK2 on phenotype is discussed, as not all polycythemia vera patients appear to be homozygous for the JAK2V617F mutation. Other mutations in the JAK-STAT signalling cascade are reviewed, including JAK2 exon 12, myeloproliferative leukemia virus oncogene, LNK (also known as SH2B3) mutations, and epigenetic changes in ten-eleven-translocation-2 (TET2), additional sex combs like 1 (ASXL1), PcG enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) and DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A). Mutations associated with disease progression such as isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) 1, IDH2, EZH2, serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 2 (SRSF2), p53, casitas B-lineage lymphoma (c-CBL), ikaros zinc fingers (IKZF), neurofibromin 1 (NF1) and runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) are described.SUMMARY: In this chapter, current knowledge regarding the role of the JAK2V617F mutation on the pathogenesis and disease phenotype of polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia are highlighted. Other more recently recognized mutations in the JAK-STAT signalling cascade, epigenetic changes and mutations associated with disease progression are summarized.
The expression of Ikaros family transcription factors and consequently their signalling pathway is limiting for hematopoietic and lymphocyte development in mice and human. Due to their importance, these transcription factors are highly homologous between species. As an initial approach to examining the possible involvement of Ikaros transcription factors in pathogenesis of rat lymphoid development, we analyzed the expression of all known Ikaros family members, Ikaros, Aiolos, Helios, Eos and Pegasus in the rat thymus. We established a semi-quantitative RT-PCR to detect mRNA of each transcription factor. For the first time we give evidence of the expression of Ikaros family transcription factors in the rat thymus. Further, we evaluated whether their mRNA expression was succumbed to changes when the rats were exposed to ethanol, as a known debilitating agent during development. Therefore we analyzed the thymus of adult rats whose mothers were forced to drink ethanol during gestation, to detect possible changes in thymus mRNA expression levels of Ikaros, Aiolos, Helios, Eos and Pegasus. We found that rats prenatally exposed to ethanol show a slightly higher expression of Ikaros family transcription factors in the adult thymus when compared to control rats, but these differences were not statistically significant. We further studied the distribution of the major lymphocyte subpopulations in the rat thymus according to CD3, CD4 and CD8 expression by four color flow cytometry. We found a higher incidence of CD3 positive cells in the double positive, CD4+CD8+ thymic subpopulation of rats prenatally exposed to ethanol when compared to non-exposed animals. Our findings indicate that ethanol exposure of pregnant rats might influence the development of CD3 positive cells in the thymus of the offspring but this result should be further tackled at the level of transcription factor expression.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a critical role in maintaining immune tolerance and preventing autoimmune disease. Tregs express the transcription factor Foxp3, which acts as a master regulator of their differentiation and controls their capacity to suppress T cell responses. Tregs have an intrinsically anergic phenotype and do not produce IL-2 or proliferate upon stimulation ex vivo. Recent studies identified that Helios, a member of the Ikaros family of transcription factors, is expressed in Tregs. However, its specific function is not fully understood. In this study, we show that Helios regulates IL-2 production in Tregs by suppressing Il2 gene transcription. Loss of Helios in Tregs breaks their anergic phenotype and results in derepression of the Il2 locus, allowing Tregs to display increased baseline proliferation and to produce IL-2 following stimulation. Conversely, forced expression of Helios in CD4(+)Foxp3(-) T cells results in a loss of their normal ability to produce IL-2. Helios acts by binding to the Il2 promoter and inducing epigenetic modifications that include histone deacetylation. We also show that loss of Helios in Tregs results in decreased Foxp3 binding to the Il2 promoter, indicating that Helios promotes binding of Foxp3 to the Il2 promoter. Interestingly, the loss of Helios in Tregs also causes a decrease in suppressive capacity. Our results identify Helios as a key regulator of Il2 expression in Tregs, contributing to the maintenance of the anergic phenotype.
OBJECTIVES: Recent data debate the suitability of Helios, an Ikaros family member, as a marker for thymic-derived regulatory T cells (Treg). Nevertheless, Foxp3(+) Helios(+) Treg may be of particular relevance in mediating immune tolerance in chronic autoimmunity, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), as they possess enhanced suppressive function, compared to Foxp3(+) Helios(-) Treg.METHODS: Multicolour flow cytometry was performed to analyse Foxp3 and Helios expression in peripheral blood CD4 T cells from SLE patients, compared to healthy controls (HC) and systemic sclerosis (SSc) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. Cytokine production, chemokine receptor expression for CXCR3 and CCR4, basal signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5)a phosphorylation levels and T-cell receptor (TCR) Vβ repertoire were analysed by flow cytometry, and the methylation status of the Foxp3 locus (Treg-specific demethylated region, TSDR) by real-time PCR.RESULTS: Frequencies of Foxp3(+) Helios(+) Treg, unlike Foxp3(+) Helios(-) T cells, were significantly increased in SLE patients and positively correlated with disease activity, whereas they were unaltered in SSc and RA patients. Compared to HC, Foxp3(+) Helios(+) Treg in SLE predominantly displayed a CD45RA(-)/CD31(-)/FoxP3(low) memory phenotype with increased Ki-67 expression, enhanced basal pSTAT5a levels and a restricted TCR repertoire. Nonetheless, similar to HC, Foxp3(+) Helios(+) Treg in SLE lacked effector cytokine production, possessed a highly demethylated TSDR and expressed comparable levels of CXCR3 and CCR4.CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that Helios-expressing Foxp3(+) Treg with functional suppressive capacity and migratory potential into inflamed tissues are expanded in active SLE, presumably through γ-chain signalling cytokines and TCR stimulation, to compensate for autoreactive effector responses.
Several confirmed genetic susceptibility loci involved in the interferon signaling and Th17/B cell response for SLE in Chinese Han populations have been described. Available data also indicate that sex-specific genetic differences contribute to SLE susceptibility. The aim of this study was to test for gene-gene/gene-sex epistasis (interactions) in these known lupus susceptibility loci. Six single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in MiR146a, IRF5, IKZF1, ETS1 and IL21 were genotyped by Sequenom MassArray system. A total of 1,825 subjects (858 SLE patients and 967 controls) were included in the final analysis. Epistasis was tested by additive model, multiplicative model and multifactor dimensionality reduction (MDR) method. Additive interaction analysis revealed interactions between IRF5 and IKZF1 (OR 2.26, 95% CI 1.48-3.44 [P = 1.21×10(4)]). A similar tendency was also observed between IL21 and ETS1 by parametric methods. In addition, multiple high dimensional gene-gene or gene-sex interactions (three-and four-way) were identified by MDR analysis. Our study identified novel gene-gene/gene-sex interactions in lupus. Furthermore, these findings highlight sex, interferon pathway, and Th17/B cells as important contributors to the pathogenesis of SLE.
Genomic profiling has transformed our understanding of the genetic basis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Recent years have seen a shift from microarray analysis and candidate gene sequencing to next-generation sequencing. Together, these approaches have shown that many ALL subtypes are characterized by constellations of structural rearrangements, submicroscopic DNA copy number alterations, and sequence mutations, several of which have clear implications for risk stratification and targeted therapeutic intervention. Mutations in genes regulating lymphoid development are a hallmark of ALL, and alterations of the lymphoid transcription factor gene IKZF1 (IKAROS) are associated with a high risk of treatment failure in B-ALL. Approximately 20% of B-ALL cases harbor genetic alterations that activate kinase signaling that may be amenable to treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors, including rearrangements of the cytokine receptor gene CRLF2; rearrangements of ABL1, JAK2, and PDGFRB; and mutations of JAK1 and JAK2. Whole-genome sequencing has also identified novel targets of mutation in aggressive T-lineage ALL, including hematopoietic regulators (ETV6 and RUNX1), tyrosine kinases, and epigenetic regulators. Challenges for the future are to comprehensively identify and experimentally validate all genetic alterations driving leukemogenesis and treatment failure in childhood and adult ALL and to implement genomic profiling into the clinical setting to guide risk stratification and targeted therapy.
Ikaros is important in the development and maintenance of the lymphoid system, functioning in part by associating with chromatin-remodeling complexes. We have studied the functions of Ikaros in the transition from pre-T cell to the CD4(+) CD8(+) thymocyte using an Ikaros null CD4(-) CD8(-) mouse thymoma cell line (JE131). We demonstrate that this cell line carries a single functional TCR β gene rearrangement and expresses a surface pre-TCR. JE131 cells also carry nonfunctional rearrangements on both alleles of their TCR α loci. Retroviral reintroduction of Ikaros dramatically increased the rate of transcription in the α locus and TCR Vα/Jα recombination resulting in the appearance of many new αβTCR(+) cells. The process is RAG dependent, requires switch/sucrose nonfermentable chromatin-remodeling complexes and is coincident with the binding of Ikaros to the TCR α enhancer. Furthermore, knockdown of Mi2/nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase complexes increased the frequency of TCR α rearrangement. Our data suggest that Ikaros controls Vα/Jα recombination in T cells by controlling access of the transcription and recombination machinery to the TCR α loci. The JE131 cell line should prove to be a very useful tool for studying the molecular details of this and other processes involved in the pre-T cell to αβTCR(+) CD4(+) CD8(+) thymocyte transition.
The IK6 isoform plays an important role in Philadelphia chromosome-positive adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph + ALL). This study was designed to monitor the expression of the IK6 isoform with associated cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities. The IK6 isoform, cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities were detected in 100 Chinese patients with de novo Ph+ adult ALL. Expression levels of the IK6 isoform and BCR-ABL1 transcripts were monitored during treatment. BCR-ABL1 mutation was identified in 45 paired samples. Strong correlations were found between the expression status of the IK6 isoform and blast cells, additional cytogenetic abnormalities, BCR-ABL1 transcripts, increased risk of relapse, shorter relapse-free survival and overall survival at diagnosis. Higher frequencies of single IK6 expression and ABL mutation, including the types and shifts thereof, were confirmed in relapsed patients. Furthermore, expression of the IK6 isoform was dynamically consistent with BCR-ABL1 transcript levels during treatment in the single expression group, whereas no such correlation was observed in the co-expression group. The expression pattern of the IK6 isoform was altered in three patients from the co-expression group. The findings of this study in Chinese patients with Ph+ adult ALL exhibit some discrepancies with data reported in other countries, thereby enhancing current knowledge on the therapeutic response and prognosis of this disease.
BACKGROUND: We showed previously that the transcription factor Ikaros is expressed in early but not late retinal progenitors cells (RPCs), and is necessary and sufficient for the production of early-born neurons. Preliminary evidence using retinal explant cultures qualitatively suggested that Ikaros-positive RPCs might share a common lineage with Ikaros-negative RPCs.RESULTS: To explore further this question in vivo in a quantitative manner, we generated BAC transgenic mouse lines expressing Cre recombinase under the regulatory elements of the Ikaros gene, and crossed them with Cre reporter lines. Different transgenic lines labeled a variable number of RPCs, resulting in either dense or sparse radial arrays of reporter-positive progenies. Analysis of over 800 isolated cell arrays, which are most likely clones, confirmed that Ikaros-expressing RPCs generate both early- and late-born cell types in the same lineage, and that the overall cell composition of the arrays closely resembles that of the population of the mature retina. Interestingly, another sparse line did not label arrays, but appeared to specifically reflect Ikaros postmitotic expression in amacrine and ganglion cells.CONCLUSIONS: These mouse lines confirm the unbiased potential of the Ikaros lineage in vivo and provide novel tools for clonal lineage tracing and single neuron tracking in the retina.
Philadelphia positive malignant disorders are a clinically divergent group of leukemias. These include chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and de novo acute Philadelphia positive (Ph(+)) leukemia of both myeloid, and lymphoid origin. Recent whole genome screening of Ph(+)ALL in both children and adults identified an almost obligatory cryptic loss of Ikaros, required for the normal B cell maturation. Although similar losses were found in lymphoid blast crisis the genetic background of the transformation in CML is still poorly defined. We used Significance Analysis of Microarrays (SAM) to analyze comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) data from 30 CML (10 each of chronic phase, myeloid and lymphoid blast stage), 10 Ph(+)ALL adult patients and 10 disease free controls and were able to: (a) discriminate between the genomes of lymphoid and myeloid blast cells and (b) identify differences in the genome profile of de novo Ph(+)ALL and lymphoid blast transformation of CML (BC/L). Furthermore we were able to distinguish a sub group of Ph(+) ALL characterized by gains in chromosome 9 and recurrent losses at several other genome sites offering genetic evidence for the clinical heterogeneity. The significance of these results is that they not only offer clues regarding the pathogenesis of Ph(+) disorders and highlight the potential clinical implications of a set of probes but also demonstrates what SAM can offer for the analysis of genome data.
Ikaros is a zinc finger-containing DNA-binding protein that plays a pivotal role in immune homeostasis through transcriptional regulation of the earliest stages of lymphocyte ontogeny and differentiation. Functional deficiency of Ikaros has been implicated in the pathogenesis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the most common form of childhood cancer. Therefore, a stringent regulation of Ikaros activity is considered of paramount importance, but the operative molecular mechanisms responsible for its regulation remain largely unknown. Here we provide multifaceted genetic and biochemical evidence for a previously unknown function of spleen tyrosine kinase (SYK) as a partner and posttranslational regulator of Ikaros. We demonstrate that SYK phoshorylates Ikaros at unique C-terminal serine phosphorylation sites S358 and S361, thereby augmenting its nuclear localization and sequence-specific DNA binding activity. Mechanistically, we establish that SYK-induced Ikaros activation is essential for its nuclear localization and optimal transcription factor function.
Deletion of the Ikaros (IKZF1) gene is an oncogenic lesion frequently associated with BCR-ABL1-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemias. It is also found in a fraction of BCR-ABL1-negative B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemias, and early studies showed it was associated with a higher risk of relapse. Therefore, screening tools are needed for evaluation in treatment protocols and possible inclusion in risk stratification. Besides monosomy 7 and large 7p abnormalities encompassing IKZF1, most IKZF1 alterations are short, intragenic deletions. Based on cohorts of patients, we mapped the microdeletion breakpoints and developed a breakpoint-specific fluorescent multiplex polymerase chain reaction that allows detection of recurrent intragenic deletions. This sensitive test could also detect IKZF1 subclonal deletions, whose prognostic significance should be evaluated. Moreover, we show that consensus breakpoint sequences can be used as clonal markers to monitor minimal residual disease. This paper could be useful for translational studies and in clinical management of BCP-ALL.
Comment in    Am J Pathol. 2012 Dec;181(6):1900-2.
Stem cell therapy is one of the most promising treatments in neuroregenerative medicine. Considering the role of the endogenous opioid system in controlling the pathophysiology of neurological disorders and behavioral aberrations, current studies have focused on enkephalins as a part of the opioid system. Due to high capability of unrestricted somatic stem cells (USSCs) and human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) for cell therapy and transplantation; here, we examined their enkephalinergic differentiation potential through Ikaros-related pathways in order to develop in vitro models to help drug screening and stem cell therapy for the opioid-related disorders. The authenticity of the stem cells was verified by differentiation experiments along with flow cytometry for surface markers. Later, we confirmed their neurogenic differentiation with semiquantitative and quantitative transcriptional and translational evaluations of the enkephalinergic-related genes such as proenkephalin, CREBZF, Ikaros, and prodynorphin. Our findings supported the enkephalinergic differentiation of these stem cells. Noteworthy, USSCs showed higher potential for differentiating into enkephalinergic neurons under Ikaros activation than hMSCs, which makes them appropriate for neurological therapeutic applications. In conclusion, this study suggests a powerful in vitro model for neurogenesis that may help clarification of enkephalinergic differentiation and related signaling networks along with neural drug screening. Such investigations may be beneficial to ameliorate the neural-related therapeutic approaches.
Discovery of the JAK2 V617F mutation in the myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) essential thrombocythemia (ET), polycythemia vera (PV), and primary myelofibrosis (PMF) has stimulated great interest in the underlying molecular mechanisms and treatment of these diseases. Along with acceleration of technologies, novel mutations in genes such as MPL, LNK, and CBL have been discovered that converge on the JAK-STAT pathway. Several additional novel mutations in genes involved in epigenetic regulation of the genome, including TET2, ASXL1, DNMT3A, and IDH1/2, have emerged, in addition to several mutations in cellular splicing machinery. While understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms of these novel mutations in MPNs has improved, it is still lagging behind the pace of mutation discovery. Concurrent with molecular discoveries, especially with regard to JAK-STAT signaling, therapeutic development has accelerated in recent years. More than ten JAK kinase inhibitors have been advanced into clinical trials. Recently the first JAK2 inhibitor was approved for use in patients with PMF. Most JAK-targeting agents share similar characteristics with regard to clinical benefit, consisting of improvements in splenomegaly, constitutional symptoms, and cytopenias, for example. It remains to be determined if JAK2 inhibitors can considerably impact disease progression and bone marrow histologic features (e.g., fibrosis) or significantly impact the JAK2 allele burden. While JAK2 inhibitors appear to be promising in PV and ET, they need to be compared with standard therapies, such as hydroxyurea or interferon-based therapies. Future clinical development will focus on optimal combination partners and agents that target alternative mechanisms, deepen the response, and achieve molecular remissions.
BACKGROUND: Recently, several studies have demonstrated a negative prognostic impact of Ikaros (IKZF1) gene alterations in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). However, controversies still exist regarding the impact of IKZF1 in current treatment protocols.PROCEDURE: We simultaneously detected IKZF1 gene deletions by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and gene expression of IKZF1 isoforms in 206 children with BCR/ABL-negative ALL treated with ALL IC-BFM 2002 protocol, in which risk stratification was not based on minimal residual disease (MRD), and validated the results on a cohort of 189 patients treated with MRD-directed ALL-BFM 2000 protocol.RESULTS: Deletion of IKZF1 was present in 14 of 206 (7%) ALL IC patients. Interestingly, gene expression did not completely correlate with the deletion status in either cohort. Deletions were not always reflected in the gene expression of dominant-negative isoforms, and conversely, 7 of 395 (2%) non-deleted cases overexpressed dominant-negative isoform Ik6. IKZF1 deletions significantly affected event-free survival (EFS) of the ALL IC cohort (41 ± 14% vs. 86 ± 3%, P < 0.0001). Regarding IKZF1 isoforms, only Ik6 overexpression had negative prognostic impact (EFS 50 ± 16% vs. 85 ± 3%, P = 0.003). In multivariate analysis, which included ALL IC risk criteria, flow-cytometric MRD and IKZF1 alterations, day 15 MRD and IKZF1 deletion status displayed an independent prognostic impact.CONCLUSIONS: We show that MRD-directed treatment diminishes prognostic impact of IKZF1 alterations. However, IKZF1 status alone or combined with day 15 flow cytometry can significantly improve risk stratification within BFM protocols at centers that do not perform antigen-receptor-based MRD monitoring.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2012 Oct;13(10):943-5.
Growth Factor Independence (Gfi) transcription factors play essential roles in hematopoiesis, differentially activating and repressing transcriptional programs required for hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC) development and lineage specification. In mammals, Gfi1a regulates hematopoietic stem cells (HSC), myeloid and lymphoid populations, while its paralog, Gfi1b, regulates HSC, megakaryocyte and erythroid development. In zebrafish, gfi1aa is essential for primitive hematopoiesis; however, little is known about the role of gfi1aa in definitive hematopoiesis or about additional gfi factors in zebrafish. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of an additional hematopoietic gfi factor, gfi1b. We show that gfi1aa and gfi1b are expressed in the primitive and definitive sites of hematopoiesis in zebrafish. Our functional analyses demonstrate that gfi1aa and gfi1b have distinct roles in regulating primitive and definitive hematopoietic progenitors, respectively. Loss of gfi1aa silences markers of early primitive progenitors, scl and gata1. Conversely, loss of gfi1b silences runx-1, c-myb, ikaros and cd41, indicating that gfi1b is required for definitive hematopoiesis. We determine the epistatic relationships between the gfi factors and key hematopoietic transcription factors, demonstrating that gfi1aa and gfi1b join lmo2, scl, runx-1 and c-myb as critical regulators of teleost HSPC. Our studies establish a comparative paradigm for the regulation of hematopoietic lineages by gfi transcription factors.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China.
Despite improvements in the prevention and treatment of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) this allogeneic immune response is still one of major complications following allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT). Identification of patients at risk for the development of acute and chronic GvHD would facilitate early intervention and thus improve overall survival. Diagnostic biomarkers identified in plasma are largely associated with T cell immune responses. Whereas donor effector T cells promote allogeneic immune responses, regulatory T cells (Tregs) may prevent GvHD by suppression of these alloreactive donor T cells. Therefore, we analyzed molecules associated with Tregs with respect to their potential predictive and prognostic impact on the development of acute and chronic GvHD. For this purpose, the Treg transcriptomes of patients with and without acute/chronic GvHD resulting from dynamical whole genome profiles of CD4(+)CD25(hi)CD127(lo/-) Tregs have been studied for potential GvHD biomarkers. We could identify potential biomarkers for acute/chronic GvHD like the activation marker phosphatidyl-5-kinase-gamma PIP5Kγ, FAS, CD44, CD69, and cell cycle regulators like cyclin A2, B1 and E2. Most importantly, the IKAROS transcription factor Eos, relevant for suppressive Treg function, might be relevant for the prediction of GvHD development. In addition markers like ANK3 (ankyrin), S100A8 and VCAN are indicative for acute GvHD, while IFIT3, IFI44 and IFIT1 are potential biomarkers for chronic GvHD. The identified markers have to be validated prospectively and might help to monitor and guide preventive immune intervention studies, especially adoptive donor Treg cell transfer.
IKZF1 gene deletions have been associated with a poor outcome in pediatric precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. To assess the prognostic relevance of IKZF1 deletions for patients treated on Berlin-Frankfurt-Münster Study Group trial ALL-BFM 2000, we screened 694 diagnostic acute lymphoblastic leukemia samples by Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification. Patients whose leukemic cells bore IKZF1 deletions had a lower 5-year event-free survival (0.69±0.05 vs. 0.85±0.01; P<0.0001) compared to those without, mainly due to a higher cumulative incidence of relapses (0.21±0.04 vs. 0.10±0.01; P=0.001). Although IKZF1 deletions were significantly associated with the P2RY8-CRLF2 rearrangement, their prognostic value was found to be independent from this association. Thus, IKZF1 deletion is an independent predictor of treatment outcome and a strong candidate marker for integration in future treatment stratification strategies on ALL-BFM protocols. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT00430118.
Chromatin remodeling at specific genomic loci controls lymphoid differentiation. Here, we investigated the role played in this process by Kruppel-associated box (KRAB)-associated protein 1 (KAP1), the universal cofactor of KRAB-zinc finger proteins (ZFPs), a tetrapod-restricted family of transcriptional repressors. T-cell-specific Kap1-deleted mice displayed a significant expansion of immature thymocytes, imbalances in CD4(+)/CD8(+) cell ratios, and altered responses to TCR and TGFβ stimulation when compared to littermate KAP1 control mice. Transcriptome and chromatin studies revealed that KAP1 binds T-cell-specific cis-acting regulatory elements marked by the H3K9me3 repressive mark and enriched in Ikaros/NuRD complexes. Also, KAP1 directly controls the expression of several genes involved in TCR and cytokine signaling. Among these, regulation of FoxO1 seems to play a major role in this system. Likely responsible for tethering KAP1 to at least part of its genomic targets, a small number of KRAB-ZFPs are selectively expressed in T-lymphoid cells. These results reveal the so far unsuspected yet important role of KAP1-mediated epigenetic regulation in T-lymphocyte differentiation and activation.
To provide fundamental insights into the leukemogenesis of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL), we performed a molecular analysis of the chromosomal abnormalities in one ATLL case with a novel reciprocal translocation: t(2;14)(q34;q32). Using fluorescence in situ hybridization with cosmid probes derived from the 14q32 region, we characterized the rearranged 14q32 allele. Molecular cloning of the breakpoint revealed that the reciprocal translocation fused the 5' proximal region of the B-cell lymphoma 11B (BCL11B) gene segment (on 14q32) to the third intron of the HELIOS gene (on 2q34). Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis of the leukemia cells revealed that a substantial level of the HELIOS-BCL11B fusion mRNA was expressed relative to the level of wild-type (WT)-BCL11B derived from the intact allele. In contrast, an aberrant HELIOS isoform was detected at a low level of expression compared to the expression of normal HELIOS isoforms. Functional analysis of the HELIOS-BCL11B fusion protein revealed reduced transcriptional suppression activity compared to that of the WT-BCL11B due to the loss of the N-terminal friend of GATA-repression motif, which functions as a metastasis-associated protein 2 binding site. We also found abnormal subnuclear localization of the ectopically expressed fusion protein compared to the localization of WT-BCL11B to subnuclear speckles in HEK293T cells. Our results suggest that dysfunction of the BCL11B gene plays an important role in the development of ATLL.
The transcription factor Ikaros was originally found to function as a key regulator of lymphocyte differentiation. In this study, we provide the first evidence that Ikaros is expressed at higher levels in ovarian cancer tissues compared with normal ovarian tissues and is significantly associated with high FIGO stage and low differentiation state in ovarian serous adenocarcinoma. To this end, we transfected IK1 (full length of Ikaros) into the SKOV3 ovarian cancer cell line and examined cell biological behaviors including proliferation, migration and invasion. We found that overexpression of IK1 inhibited cell proliferation by inducing G1 arrest, accompanied by the upregulation of P27 and P21 and downregulation of cyclin D1 and D2. On the other hand, IK1 increased the migration and invasion of ovarian cancer cells, as assessed by scratch-wound assay, transwell migration assay, and invasion assay. Overexpression of IK1 significantly increased Slug but not Snail1 expression at both mRNA and protein levels. It also downregulated and upregulated E-cadherin and MMP-2, two target genes of Slug involved in migration, respectively. Furthermore, knocking down Slug abrogated IK1-mediated increase in migration and invasion. These data suggest that Slug plays an important role in IK1-induced migration and invasion. In conclusion, we show for the first time that IK1 plays a dual role in the proliferation, migration and invasion of ovarian cancer cells, providing new insights into their metastasis.
PURPOSE: To determine the prevalence and prognostic impact of significant acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) -related genes: CRLF2 deregulation (CRLF2-d), IGH@ translocations (IGH@-t), and deletions of CDKN2A/B, IKZF1, PAX5, ETV6, RB1, BTG1, and EBF1 in adolescents and adults.PATIENTS AND METHODS: The cohort comprised 454 patients (age 15 to 60 years old) treated on the multicenter United Kingdom Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia Trial XII/Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 2993 trial (UKALLXII/ECOG2993) with Philadelphia-negative B-cell precursor ALL. Fluorescent in situ hybridization and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification were used to detect these genetic alterations.RESULTS: Twenty patients (5%) had CRLF2-d (P2RY8-CRLF2, n = 7; IGH@-CRLF2, n = 13), and 36 patients (8%) harbored an IGH@-t with a different partner gene. There was little overlap between IGH@-t, CRLF2-d, and established chromosomal abnormalities. Deletions of CDKN2A/B, IKZF1, PAX5, ETV6, RB1, BTG1, or EBF1 were prevalent with 101 (33%) of 304 patients harboring one and 102 (33%) harboring two or more alterations, occurring with varying frequency in all cytogenetic subgroups. The 5-year event-free survival, relapse-free survival (RFS), and overall survival (OS) rates for the whole cohort were 40%, 55%, and 43%, respectively. Patients with CRLF2-d, IGH@-t, and IKZF1 deletions were associated with an inferior outcome in univariate but not multivariate analysis. In particular, CRLF2-d patients had a lower RFS compared with other patients (30%), whereas those with IGH@-t or IKZF1 deletions had a lower OS (27% and 35%, respectively).CONCLUSION: CRLF2-d and IGH@-t represent distinct subtypes of adolescent and adult ALL. Deletions of key B-cell differentiation and cell cycle control genes are highly prevalent but vary in frequency by cytogenetic subgroup. CRLF2-d, IGH@-t, and IKZF1 deletions are associated with poor outcome in adolescent and adult ALL.
BACKGROUND: Deletions of IKAROS (IKZF1) frequently occur in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) but the mechanisms by which they influence pathogenesis are unclear. To address this issue, a cohort of 144 adult B-ALL patients (106 BCR-ABL1-positive and 38 B-ALL negative for known molecular rearrangements) was screened for IKZF1 deletions by single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) arrays; a sub-cohort of these patients (44%) was then analyzed for gene expression profiling.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Total or partial deletions of IKZF1 were more frequent in BCR-ABL1-positive than in BCR-ABL1-negative B-ALL cases (75% vs 58%, respectively, p = 0.04). Comparison of the gene expression signatures of patients carrying IKZF1 deletion vs those without showed a unique signature featured by down-regulation of B-cell lineage and DNA repair genes and up-regulation of genes involved in cell cycle, JAK-STAT signalling and stem cell self-renewal. Through chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays we corroborated these findings both in vivo and in vitro, showing that Ikaros deleted isoforms lacked the ability to directly regulate a large group of the genes in the signature, such as IGLL1, BLK, EBF1, MSH2, BUB3, ETV6, YES1, CDKN1A (p21), CDKN2C (p18) and MCL1.CONCLUSIONS: Here we identified and validated for the first time molecular pathways specifically controlled by IKZF1, shedding light into IKZF1 role in B-ALL pathogenesis.
Comment on    Nat Immunol. 2012 Aug;13(8):770-7.
Antitumor type I T-cell responses involving IFN-γ production are critical to control cancer, but the efficacy of this response is limited by a variety of immunosuppressive mechanisms that promote tumoral immune escape. One critical mechanism involves the accumulation of FOXP3(+) T regulatory cells (Treg), a class of suppressive T cells that prevent excessive tissue destruction caused by unchecked immune responses. Recent studies have revealed that FOXP3(+) Treg include distinct subsets specifically controlling over the corresponding effector subset. In particular, CXCR3(+) Treg have been described as a subset specialized in the control of type I T-cell responses in vivo. Here, we show that CXCR3(+) Treg are highly enriched in human ovarian carcinomas, particularly in solid tumor masses, where they represent the majority of Treg. Tumor-associated CXCR3(+.) Treg coexpress T-bet but do not secrete IFN-γ ex vivo and suppress proliferation and IFN-γ secretion of T effectors. In addition, they coexpress Helios, suggesting that they originate from natural Treg. Finally, we show that the proportion of CXCR3(+) Treg at tumor sites is directly correlated with that of CXCR3(+) T effectors, consistent with expression of CXCR3 ligands. Together, our findings support the concept that natural CXCR3(+) T-bet(+) Treg selectively accumulate in ovarian tumors to control type I T-cell responses, resulting in the collateral limitation of efficient antitumor immunity.
Ikaros family zinc finger 1, encoded by IKZF1, are lymphoid-restricted zinc finger transcription factors that share common N-terminal Kruppel-like zinc finger DNA-binding domain. IKZF1 play multiple important roles on regulators of lymphocyte differentiation and hematological tumor suppressor. Our genome-wide association (GWA) studies in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) independently identified genetic variants in IKZF1 associated with SLE, which are supported by other studies. Previous studies found that lower expression of IKZF1 may play critical roles in activating some signal pathways involved in SLE, such as signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT)4 and interferon pathways. In addition, IKZF1 has been implicated in roles involved in some hematologic traits or abnormalities, such as erythrocyte measures, myelofibrosis, and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), which may be common clinical manifestations or co-occurrence hematological diseases of patients with SLE. All these findings suggest that IKZF1 may play a critical role in the pathogenesis of SLE. In this article, we discuss the existing understanding of the role of IKZF1 on the physiological and pathological functions associated with SLE, providing insights that may assist in the development of new therapeutic strategies based on IKZF1 for patients with SLE.
The transcription factor Hairy Enhancer of Split 1 (HES1), a downstream effector of the Notch signaling pathway, is an important regulator of hematopoiesis. Here, we demonstrate that in primary erythroid cells, Hes1 gene expression is transiently repressed around proerythroblast stage of differentiation. Using mouse erythroleukemia cells, we found that the RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated depletion of HES1 enhances erythroid cell differentiation, suggesting that this protein opposes terminal erythroid differentiation. This is also supported by the decreased primary erythroid cell differentiation upon HES1 upregulation in Ikaros-deficient mice. A comprehensive analysis led us to determine that Ikaros favors Hes1 repression in erythroid cells by facilitating recruitment of the master regulator of erythropoiesis GATA-1 alongside FOG-1, which mediates Hes1 repression. GATA-1 is then necessary for the chromatin binding of the NuRD remodeling complex ATPase MI-2, the transcription factor GFI1B, and the histone H3K27 methyltransferase EZH2 along with Polycomb repressive complex 2. We show that EZH2 is required for the transient repression of Hes1 in erythroid cells. In aggregate, our results describe a mechanism whereby GATA-1 utilizes Ikaros and Polycomb repressive complex 2 to promote Hes1 repression as an important step in erythroid cell differentiation.
Natural killer (NK)-cells are a lymphocyte population playing a critical role in the immune surveillance against tumors and virally infected cells. The development of human hematopoietic stem cells (hHSC) into fully differentiated NK-cells pass through discrete stages of differentiation involving a variety of factors such as cytokines, membrane factors, and transcription factors (TFs). Because there is lack of studies in this field, we decided to perform an extended analysis of TFs during in vitro differentiation of NK-cells. At several points of differentiation, cells were characterized by their mRNA expression either for NK-cell cell markers, for a number of mature NK-cell receptors or a large panel of TFs. Our data suggests that some TFs (ID2, EGR-2 and T-BET) play a role in NK-cell commitment, differentiation and maturation. Although delayed on its expression, BLIMP1 also seems to be involved in differentiation and maturation of NK cells, but not in NK-cell commitment. E4BP4 and TOX are more related with initial stages of NK-cell commitment. PU.1, MEF, Ikaros, EGR-1, BCL11B and IRF-2 revealed less involvement in maturation and were more associated with NK-cell commitment and pNK cell production. GATA-3 showed a differential role during the ontogeny of NK-cells. We show that assessment of the transcripts present in the differentiating NK-cells demonstrated, a pattern of preserved and differential gene expression remarkably similar to that seen in mice except for E4BP4 that showed constant downregulation throughout the culture period. A thorough understanding of NK-cell developmental mechanisms is important as it may enable future therapeutic manipulation.
Erratum in    Nat Immunol. 2014 Jan;15(1):109.
Ionizing radiation is a well-known carcinogen, but its potency may be influenced by other environmental carcinogens, which is of practical importance in the assessment of risk. Data are scarce, however, on the combined effect of radiation with other environmental carcinogens and the underlying mechanisms involved. We studied the mode and mechanism of the carcinogenic effect of radiation in combination with N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) using doses approximately equal to the corresponding thresholds. B6C3F1 mice exposed to fractionated X-irradiation (Kaplan's method) followed by ENU developed T-cell lymphomas in a dose-dependent manner. Radiation doses above an apparent threshold acted synergistically with ENU to promote lymphoma development, whereas radiation doses below that threshold antagonized lymphoma development. Ikaros, which regulates the commitment and differentiation of lymphoid lineage cells, is a critical tumor suppressor gene frequently altered in both human and mouse lymphomas and shows distinct mutation spectra between X-ray- and ENU-induced lymphomas. In the synergistically induced lymphomas, we observed a low frequency of LOH and an inordinate increase of Ikaros base substitutions characteristic of ENU-induced point mutations, G:C to A:T at non-CpG, A:T to G:C, G:C to T:A and A:T to T:A. This suggests that radiation doses above an apparent threshold activate the ENU mutagenic pathway. This is the first report on the carcinogenic mechanism elicited by combined exposure to carcinogens below and above threshold doses based on the mutation spectrum of the causative gene. These findings constitute a basis for assessing human cancer risk following exposure to multiple carcinogens.
Despite risk-adapted treatment, survival of children with relapse of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) remains poor compared with that of patients with initial diagnosis of ALL. Leukemia-associated genetic alterations may provide novel prognostic factors to refine present relapse treatment strategies. Therefore, we investigated the clinical relevance of 13 recurrent genetic alterations in 204 children treated uniformly for relapsed B-cell precursor ALL according to the ALL-REZ BFM 2002 protocol. The most common alterations were deletions of CDKN2A/2B, IKZF1, PAX5, ETV6, fusion of ETV6-RUNX1 and deletions and/or mutations of TP53. Multivariate analysis identified IKZF1 deletion and TP53 alteration as independent predictors of inferior outcome (P=0.002 and P=0.001). Next, we investigated how both alterations can improve the established risk stratification in relapsed ALL. Intermediate-risk relapse patients with low minimal residual disease are currently considered to have a good prognosis. In this group, deletion of IKZF1 and alteration of TP53 identify patients with significantly inferior outcome (P<0.001). In high-risk relapse patients, deletion of IKZF1 is strongly predictive of a second relapse after stem cell transplantation (P<0.001). We conclude that IKZF1 and TP53 represent relevant prognostic factors that should be considered in future risk assessment of children with relapsed ALL to indicate treatment intensification or intervention.
Cancer risk associated with radiation exposure is considered the result of concurrent exposure to other natural and manmade carcinogens. Available data on the molecular characteristics of cancer after simultaneous exposure to radiation and chemicals are insufficient. In our study, we used a mouse thymic lymphoma (TL) model that was synergistically induced by simultaneous exposure to X-rays and N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) at subcarcinogenic doses and analyzed the mutation frequency and spectrum of the TL-associated genes Ikaros, Notch1, p53 and Kras. We found that the point mutation frequency in Ikaros was significantly increased to 47% for simultaneous exposure compared to 13 and 0% for X-ray and ENU exposure alone, respectively. These mutations were mostly G:C > A:T at non-CpG sites and T:A > C:G, both of which are characteristic of ENU mutagenesis. About half of the point mutations were accompanied by loss of heterozygosity (LOH), typical of X-irradiation. The remaining half did not include LOH, which suggests that they were dominant-negative mutations. In Notch1, the frequency of abnormalities was high (>58%) regardless of the treatment, suggesting that Notch1 aberration may be important for T-cell lymphomagenesis. The p53 and Kras mutation frequencies were low for all treatments (<23%). Importantly, the frequency of TLs containing mutations in multiple genes, especially both Ikaros and Notch1, increased after simultaneous exposure. Thus, after simultaneous exposure, Ikaros is a critical target and is inactivated by ENU-induced point mutations and/or X-ray-induced LOH in T-cell lymphomagenesis. Furthermore, concomitant alterations of multiple tumor-associated genes may contribute to enhanced lymphomagenesis after simultaneous exposure.
Anergy is induced in T cells as a consequence of a partial or suboptimal stimulation. Anergic T cells become unresponsive and fail to proliferate and produce cytokines. We had previously shown that in anergic CD4(+) T cells, Ikaros participates in the transcriptional repression of the Il2 gene by recruiting histone deacetylases that cause core histone deacetylation at the Il2 promoter. Here we show that deacetylation at the Il2 promoter is the initial step in a process that leads to the stable silencing of the Il2 gene transcription in anergic T cells. We have found that anergy-induced deacetylation of the Il2 promoter permits binding of the histone methyl-transferase Suv39H1, which trimethylates lysine-9 of histone H3 (Me3H3-K9). Furthermore, the establishment of the Me3H3-K9 mark allows the recruitment of the heterochromatin protein HP1, allowing the silenced Il2 loci to reposition close to heterochromatin-rich regions. Our results indicate that silencing of Il2 transcription in anergic T cells is attained through a series of epigenetic changes that involve the establishment of repressive marks and the subsequent nuclear repositioning of the Il2 loci, which become juxtaposed to transcriptionally silent regions. This mechanism may account for the stable nature of the inhibition of IL-2 production in anergic cells.
The sarcomeric myosin gene, Myh7b, encodes an intronic microRNA, miR-499, which regulates cardiac and skeletal muscle biology, yet little is known about its transcriptional regulation. To identify the transcription factors involved in regulating Myh7b/miR-499 gene expression, we have mapped the transcriptional start sites and identified an upstream 6.2 kb region of the mouse Myh7b gene whose activity mimics the expression pattern of the endogenous Myh7b gene both in vitro and in vivo. Through promoter deletion analysis, we have mapped a distal E-box element and a proximal Ikaros site that are essential for Myh7b promoter activity in muscle cells. We show that the myogenic regulatory factors, MyoD, Myf5 and Myogenin, bind to the E-box, while a lymphoid transcription factor, Ikaros 4 (Eos), binds to the Ikaros motif. Further, we show that through physical interaction, MyoD and Eos form an active transcriptional complex on the chromatin to regulate the expression of the endogenous Myh7b/miR-499 gene in muscle cells. We also provide the first evidence that Eos can regulate expression of additional myosin genes (Myosin 1 and β-Myosin) via the miR-499/Sox6 pathway. Therefore, our results indicate a novel role for Eos in the regulation of the myofiber gene program.
Comment in    Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2012 Jun;108(6):388-9.
Comment in    Immunity. 2012 May 25;36(5):693-4.
IRF-5 is a transcription factor activated by toll like receptor (TLR)7 and TLR9 during innate immune responses. IRF-5 activates not only Type I IFN, but also inflammatory cytokines. Most importantly, a genetic variation in the IRF-5 gene shows a strong association with autoimmune diseases such as Lupus. Here, we report that IRF5-deficient mice have attenuated IgG2a/c responses to T-cell-dependent and -independent antigens and to polyoma virus infection. This defect is due to the intrinsic deletion of IRF-5 in B cells, as SCID mice reconstituted with Irf5-/- B cells show a decrease in IgG2a/c expression after viral infection compared with mice that received wild-type B cells. Irf5-/-B cells in vitro have diminished TLR and cytokine-induced class switching to IgG2a/c. Addressing the molecular mechanism, we show that IRF-5 regulates IgG2a/c expression by decreasing Ikaros expression; reconstitution of IRF-5 in Irf5-/- B cells downregulates Ikaros levels and increases switching to IgG2a/c. The IRF site in ikzf1 promoter binds IRF-5, IRF-4 and IRF-8. We show that IRF-8 but not IRF-4 activates the ikzf1 promoter, and IRF-5 inhibits the transcriptional activity of IRF-8. Collectively, these results identify the IRF-5-Ikaros axis as a critical modulator of IgG2a/c class switching.
Helios, an Ikaros family transcription factor, is preferentially expressed at the mRNA and protein level in regulatory T cells. Helios expression previously appeared to be restricted to thymic-derived Treg. Consistent with recent data, we show here that Helios expression is inducible in vitro under certain conditions. To understand phenotypic and functional differences between Helios(+) and Helios(-) Treg, we profiled cell-surface markers of FoxP3(+) Treg using unmanipulated splenocytes. We found that CD103 and GITR are expressed at high levels on a subset of Helios(+) Treg and that a Helios(+) Treg population could be significantly enriched by FACS sorting using these two markers. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) analysis revealed increased TGF-β message in Helios(+) Treg, consistent with the possibility that this population possesses enhanced regulatory potential. In tumor-bearing mice, we found that Helios(+) Treg were relatively over-represented in the tumor-mass, and BrdU studies showed that, in vivo, Helios(+) Treg proliferated more than Helios(-) Treg. We hypothesized that Helios-enriched Treg might exert increased suppressive effects. Using in vitro suppression assays, we show that Treg function correlates with the absolute number of Helios(+) cells in culture. Taken together, these data show that Helios(+) Treg represent a functional subset with associated CD103 and GITR expression.
OBJECTIVE: Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a CD4(+) T cell-dependent autoimmune disease, and close attention has been paid to the role of CD4(+)CD25(+)Treg cells (Tregs). Previous results regarding Tregs in MG patients have been conflicting. The discrepancy was partly ascribed to selecting different Treg-associated molecules in defining Tregs. Therefore, we considered it necessary to find a reliable index for assessing the immunologic state in MG patients and explore the effect of IS on them.METHODS: We adopted flow cytometric techniques to measure the numbers and frequencies of Tregs in peripheral blood taken from 57 patients and 91 age-matched healthy donors, and we also analyzed FOXP3 mean fluorescence intensity on Tregs.RESULTS: The number and frequency of Tregs in peripheral blood of MG patients significantly decreased, together with down-regulation of FOXP3 expression. There was dynamic change of Treg cell level and the inverse relationship with clinical symptom, suggesting that the immunologic disorder in MG patients was related to peripheral Tregs population. Meanwhile, CD4(+)CD25(+)FOXP3(+)Helios(+)T cells might be activated Tregs, rather than nTregs. Moreover, the number and frequency of CD4(+)CD25(+)FOXP3(+)Helios(+)T cells significantly decreased in MG patients, indicating that the reduction of the activated Tregs population might be a critical contributor to the pathogenesis of MG.CONCLUSIONS: The significant reduction of the peripheral Tregs population in MG patients might be responsible for the immunologic disorders in MG patients. IS such as GC took its effect possible by increasing the population size, and the underlying mechanism should be further investigated.
Children with Down's syndrome (DS) have an increased risk of developing acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and have a low frequency of established genetic aberrations. We aimed to determine which genetic abnormalities are involved in DS ALL. We studied the frequency and prognostic value of deletions in B-cell development genes and aberrations of janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and cytokine receptor-like factor 2 (CRLF2) using array-comparative genomic hybridization, and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification in a population-based cohort of 34 Dutch Childhood Oncology Group DS ALL samples. A population-based cohort of 88 DS samples from the UK trials was used to validate survival estimates for IKZF1 and CRLF2 abnormalities. In total, 50% of DS ALL patients had ≥1 deletion in the B-cell development genes: PAX5 (12%), VPREB1 (18%) and IKZF1 (35%). JAK2 was mutated in 15% of patients, genomic CRLF2 rearrangements in 62%. Outcome was significantly worse in patients with IKZF1 deletions (6-year event-free survival (EFS) 45 ± 16% vs 95 ± 4%; P=0.002), which was confirmed in the validation cohort (6-year EFS 21 ± 12% vs 58 ± 11%; P=0.002). This IKZF1 deletion was a strong independent predictor for outcome (hazard ratio EFS 3.05; P=0.001). Neither CRLF2 nor JAK2 were predictors for worse prognosis. If confirmed in prospective series, IKZF1 deletions may be used for risk-group stratification in DS ALL.
BACKGROUND: The mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) gene is commonly rearranged in infant leukemia (IL). Genetic determinants of susceptibility to IL are unknown. Recent genome-wide association studies for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have identified susceptibility loci at IKZF1, ARID5B, and CEBPE.PROCEDURE: We genotyped these loci in 171 infants with leukemia and 384 controls and evaluated associations overall, by subtype [ALL, acute myeloid leukemia (AML)], and by presence (+) or absence (-) of MLL rearrangements.RESULTS: Homozygosity for a variant IKZF1 allele (rs11978267) increased risk of infant AML [Odds ratio (OR) = 3.9, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.8-8.4]; the increased risk was similar for AML/MLL+ and MLL- cases. In contrast, risk of ALL/MLL- was increased in infants homozygous for the IKZF1 variant (OR = 5.1, 95% CI = 1.8-14.5) but the variant did not modify risk of ALL/MLL+. For ARID5B (rs10821936), homozygosity for the variant allele increased risk for the ALL/MLL- subgroup only (OR = 7.2, 95% CI = 2.5-20.6). There was little evidence of an association with the CEBP variant (rs2239633).CONCLUSION: IKZF1 is expressed in early hematopoiesis, including precursor myeloid cells. Our data provide the first evidence that IKZF1 modifies susceptibility to infant AML, irrespective of MLL rearrangements, and could provide important new etiologic insights into this rare and heterogeneous hematopoietic malignancy.
T cell lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is known to be associated with chromosomal abnormalities that lead to aberrant expression of a number of transcription factors such as TAL1, which dimerizes with basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) E proteins and inhibits their function. Activated Notch receptors also efficiently induce T cell leukemogenesis in mouse models. Interestingly, gain-of-function mutations or cryptic transcription initiation of the Notch1 gene have been frequently found in both human and mouse T-ALL. However, the correlations between these alterations and overall Notch activities or leukemogenesis have not been thoroughly evaluated. Therefore, we made use of our collection of T cell lymphomas developed in transgenic mice expressing Id1, which like TAL1, inhibits E protein function. By comparing expression levels of Notch target genes in Id1-expressing tumors to those in tumors induced by a constitutively active form of Notch1, N1C, we were able to assess the overall activities of Notch pathways and conclude that the majority of Id1-expressing tumors had elevated Notch function to a varying degree. However, 26% of the Id1-expressing tumors had no evidence of enhanced Notch activation, but that did not delay the onset of tumorigenesis. Furthermore, we examined the genetic or epigenetic alterations thought to contribute to ligand-independent activation or protein stabilization of Notch1 and found that some of the Id1-expressing tumors acquired these changes, but they are not uniformly associated with elevated Notch activities in Id1 tumor samples. In contrast, N1C-expressing tumors do not harbor any PEST domain mutations nor exhibit intragenic transcription initiation. Taken together, it appears that Notch activation provides Id1-expressing tumor cells with selective advantages in growth and survival. However, this may not be absolutely essential for lymphomagenesis in Id1 transgenic mice and additional factors could also cooperate with Id1 to induce T cell lymphoma. Therefore, a broad approach is necessary in designing T-ALL therapy.
As controversy exists regarding the prognostic significance of genomic rearrangements of CRLF2 in pediatric B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) classified as standard/intermediate-risk (SR) or high-risk (HR), we assessed the prognostic significance of CRLF2 mRNA expression, CRLF2 genomic lesions (IGH@-CRLF2, P2RY8-CRLF2, CRLF2 F232C), deletion/mutation in genes frequently associated with high CRLF2 expression (IKZF1, JAK, IL7R), and minimal residual disease (MRD) in 1061 pediatric ALL patients (499 HR and 562 SR) on COG Trials P9905/P9906. Whereas very high CRLF2 expression was found in 17.5% of cases, only 51.4% of high CRLF2 expressors had CRLF2 genomic lesions. The mechanism underlying elevated CRLF2 expression in cases lacking known genomic lesions remains to be determined. All CRLF2 genomic lesions and virtually all JAK mutations were found in high CRLF2 expressors, whereas IKZF1 deletions/mutations were distributed across the full cohort. In multivariate analyses, NCI risk group, MRD, high CRLF2 expression, and IKZF1 lesions were associated with relapse-free survival. Within HR ALL, only MRD and CRLF2 expression predicted a poorer relapse-free survival; no difference was seen between cases with or without CRLF2 genomic lesions. Thus, high CRLF2 expression is associated with a very poor outcome in high-risk, but not standard-risk, ALL. This study is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00005596 and NCT00005603.
Author information:(1)Division of Rheumatology, Immunology, and Allergy, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 02115, USA.
Naturally occurring CD4(+)CD25(high) forkhead box protein 3 (FOXP3)(+) regulatory T cells (nTregs) are key mediators of immunity, which orchestrate and maintain tolerance to self and foreign antigens. In the recent 1.5 decades, a multitude of studies have aimed to define the phenotype and function of nTregs and to assess their therapeutic potential for modulating immune mediated disorders such as autoimmunity, allergy, and episodes of transplant rejection. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on the biology of nTregs. We address the exact definition of nTregs by specific markers and combinations thereof, which is a prerequisite for the state-of-the-art isolation of defined nTreg populations. Furthermore, we discuss the mechanism by which nTregs mediate immunosuppression and how this knowledge might translate into novel therapeutic modalities. With first clinical studies of nTreg-based therapies being finished, questions concerning the reliable sources of nTregs are becoming more and more eminent. Consequently, approaches allowing conversion of CD4(+) T cells into nTregs by coculture with antigen-presenting cells, cytokines, and/or pharmacological agents are discussed. In addition, genetic engineering approaches for the generation of antigen-specific nTregs are described.
Dominant-negative (DN) Ikaros isoforms, having important roles in pathogenesis of leukemia, are mainly studied in pediatric patients, but little is known about Chinese adult patients. We examined 339 Chinese adult patients with leukemia and demonstrated the different findings between our results and those in several previous studies showing that DN isoforms overexpressed in Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph(+)ALL) and lymphoid/mixed blast crisis of chronic myelogenous leukemia. We confirmed that deletion of IKZF1 gene exons 4-7 is responsible for the generation of Ikaros 6 (Ik6). Moreover, we observed that expression of DN isoforms was dynamically consistent with BCR-ABL1 transcript levels, associated with higher incidence of relapse within 3 months or poor response to induction chemotherapy in Ph(+)ALL, correlated with high white blood cell, blast cells, CD34 positive cells, and delayed achieving complete hematological remission in ALL patients. In conclusion, this study provides a rationale for the integration of aberrant Ikaros isoforms, notably Ik6 and Ik10, in the evaluation of adult ALL, particularly in Ph(+)ALL patients.
C-terminal binding protein (CtBP) is a transcriptional corepressor that plays an important role in mammalian development and tumorigenesis. We demonstrate that CtBP is expressed in adenohypophyseal cells and is expressed at high levels in human corticotroph, somatotroph, and lactotroph pituitary adenomas. CtBP interacts with Ikaros isoforms in GH4 and AtT20 pituitary tumor cells. Ikaros and CtBP1 expression is coordinately induced by hypoxia, and this response is abrogated by CtBP1 deficiency. Forced reduction of CtBP1 leads to reduced cell growth, up-regulation of Sprouty 2, and down-regulation of ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase phosphodiesterase 2 (Enpp2). Consistent with diminished Enpp2 activity, CtBP1-deficient pituitary cells are more susceptible to hypoxia-induced apoptosis, which is rescued by Enpp2-derived lysophosphatidic acid treatment. These results identify putative oncogenic properties of CtBP1 and provide new insights into the overlapping functions of two members of the chromatin remodeling network in the response to hypoxic pituitary tumor cell drive.
Neurons and glia display remarkable morphological plasticity, and remodeling of glia may facilitate neuronal shape changes. The molecular basis and control of glial shape changes is not well understood. In response to environmental stress, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans enters an alternative developmental state, called dauer, in which glia and neurons of the amphid sensory organ remodel. Here, we describe a genetic screen aimed at identifying genes required for amphid glia remodeling. We previously demonstrated that remodeling requires the Otx-type transcription factor TTX-1 and its direct target, the receptor tyrosine kinase gene ver-1. We now find that the hunchback/Ikaros-like C2H2 zinc-finger factor ztf-16 is also required. We show that ztf-16 mutants exhibit pronounced remodeling defects, which are explained, at least in part, by defects in the expression of ver-1. Expression and cell-specific rescue studies suggest that ztf-16, like ttx-1, functions within glia; however, promoter deletion studies show that ztf-16 acts through a site on the ver-1 promoter that is independent of ttx-1. Our studies identify an important component of glia remodeling and suggest that transcriptional changes may underlie glial morphological plasticity in the sensory organs of C. elegans.
Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) maintain self-tolerance and adoptive therapy, and using Foxp3(+) Tregs has been proposed as treatment for autoimmune diseases. The clinical use of Tregs will require large numbers of cells and methods for in vitro expansion of Tregs are being developed. Foxp3(+) Tregs can be divided into 2 subpopulations based on expression of the transcription factor, Helios. Foxp3(+)Helios(+) Tregs (70%) are thymic-derived, whereas Foxp3(+)Helios(-) Tregs (30%) are induced in the periphery. Foxp3(+)Helios(+) Tregs differ from Foxp3(+)Helios(-) Tregs in terms of epigenetic changes at the Foxp3 locus, their capacity to produce effector cytokines, and their stability of Foxp3 expression on days to weeks of expansion in vitro. Addition of a 25 mer DNA oligonucleotide of random composition for a short period during the expansion of Foxp3(+) Tregs in vitro results in prolonged stabilization of the Foxp3(+)Helios(+) subpopulation and yields an optimal population for use in cellular biotherapy.
Somatic rearrangement of immunoglobulin (Ig) genes is a key step during B cell development. Using pro-B cells lacking the phosphatase Pten (phosphatase and tensin homolog), which negatively regulates phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) signaling, we show that PI3K signaling inhibits Ig gene rearrangement by suppressing the expression of the transcription factor Ikaros. Further analysis revealed that the transcription factor FoxO1 is crucial for Ikaros expression and that PI3K-mediated down-regulation of FoxO1 suppresses Ikaros expression. Interestingly, FoxO1 did not influence Ikaros transcription; instead, FoxO1 is essential for proper Ikaros mRNA splicing, as FoxO1-deficient cells contain aberrantly processed Ikaros transcripts. Moreover, FoxO1-induced Ikaros expression was sufficient only for proximal V(H) to DJ(H) gene rearrangement. Simultaneous expression of the transcription factor Pax5 was needed for the activation of distal V(H) genes; however, Pax5 did not induce any Ig gene rearrangement in the absence of Ikaros. Together, our results suggest that ordered Ig gene rearrangement is regulated by distinct activities of Ikaros, which mediates proximal V(H) to DJ(H) gene rearrangement downstream of FoxO1 and cooperates with Pax5 to activate the rearrangement of distal V(H) genes.
Generation of myeloid and lymphoid cells from progenitors involves dynamic changes in transcription factor expression and use, and disruption of hematopoietic transcription factor function and expression can contribute to leukemic transformation. PU.1 and Ikaros are pivotal factors whose expression and utilization are dynamically altered during hematopoietic development. Here, we demonstrate that expression of PU.1, encoded by the Sfpi1 gene, is divergently regulated by Ikaros in distinct cell type-specific contexts. Chromatin immune precipitation analysis and functional perturbations revealed that Ikaros can directly repress or activate Sfpi1 transcription via different PU.1 cis-elements, with PU.1 and Ikaros collaborating at myeloid-specific elements but not at other elements. Our results thus shed light on how PU.1 and Ikaros can act as lineage competency factors to facilitate both myeloid and lymphoid developmental programs.
Sino-nasal aspergillosis (SNA) and lymphoplasmacytic rhinitis (LPR) are two common causes of nasal discharge in dog. SNA is typically due to an invasion of Aspergillus fumigatus in the surface of nasal mucosa. The etiology of LPR is poorly understood and a possible implication of fungi is suspected. The purpose of the present study was to explore the immunopathogenesis of these diseases by comparing gene expression in the nasal mucosa from dogs affected by SNA or LPR with healthy dogs, using a canine-specific microarray and quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction for confirmation of the findings of the microarray study. Total RNA was isolated from biopsies of nasal mucosa and gene expression was analyzed via hybridation to the Affymetrix GeneChip(®) Canine Genome 2.0 Array. Selected Affimetrix probes sets identifiers were downloaded into the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery. Genes of interest were chosen after their fold change and their possible implication in immunopathogenesis of SNA or LPR. The results presented here were in concordance with previous studies on SNA and LPR and highlighted new molecules potentially involved in the pathogenesis of SNA. The over-expression of interleukin (IL)-16, natural killer cell group 7 and chemokine ligand 10 might be related to a potential protective Th1 immunity counterbalanced by other molecules such as DNA-binding protein Ikaros.
Comment in    J Immunol. 2012 Jul 15;189(2):500; author reply 500-1.
Author information:(1)Stem Cell Aging Group, Spanish National Cardiovascular Research Center, Madrid, Spain.
Recent genomic analyses of childhood and adult B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) samples have identified novel genetic alterations in essential lymphoid development and signal transduction pathways, providing insight into the pathogenesis of high-risk ALL associated with treatment failure. Particular advances have been made in unraveling the genetics of ALL associated with overexpression of the cytokine receptor-like factor 2 gene (CRLF2), which is frequently accompanied by simultaneous activating mutations in genes encoding Ikaros (IKZF1), Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) and Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and/or the IL-7 receptor alpha chain (IL7RA). Children and adults with high-risk CRLF2-overexpressing ALL have high rates of relapse and dismal overall survival. Various groups have thus attempted to characterize the biochemical consequences of these genetic lesions via preclinical models with the goal of identifying targets for new therapies. These studies provide early data suggesting the promise of signal transduction inhibitors (STIs) of the JAK/STAT and PI3K pathways for CRLF2-overexpressing ALL. Additional research efforts continue to elucidate these aberrant signaling networks to provide rationale for bringing STIs into the clinic for these high-risk patients. This review highlights the current knowledge of the incidence, prognostic significance, and biology of CRLF2-overexpressing ALL and future directions for development of targeted therapies.
The Ikzf1 gene encodes Ikaros-a DNA-binding zinc finger protein. Ikaros functions as a regulator of gene expression and chromatin remodeling. The biological roles of Ikaros include regulating the development and function of the immune system and acting as a master regulator of hematopoietic differentiation. Genomic profiling studies identified Ikzf1 as an important tumor suppressor in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), particularly in ALL that is associated with poor prognosis. This review summarizes currently available data regarding the structure and function of Ikaros, the clinical relevance of genetic inactivation of Ikzf1, and signal transduction pathways that regulate Ikaros function.
Development of the nervous system is finely regulated by consecutive expression of cell-specific transcription factors. Here we show that Helios, a member of the Ikaros transcription factor family, is expressed in ectodermal and neuroectodermal-derived tissues. During embryonic development, Helios is expressed by several brain structures including the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE, the striatal anlage); the cingulated, insular and retrosplenial cortex; the hippocampus; and the accessory olfactory bulb. Moreover, Helios is also expressed by Purkinje neurons during postnatal cerebellar development. Within the LGE, Helios expression follows a dynamic spatio-temporal pattern starting at embryonic stages (E14.5), peaking at E18.5, and completely disappearing during postnatal development. Helios is expressed by a small population of nestin-positive neural progenitor cells located in the subventricular zone as well as by a larger population of immature neurons distributed throughout the mantle zone. In the later, Helios is preferentially expressed in the matrix compartment, where it colocalizes with Bcl11b and Foxp1, well-known markers of striatal projection neurons. In addition, we observed that Helios expression is not detected in Dlx1/2 and Gsx2 null mutants, while its expression is maintained in Ascl1 mutants. These findings allow us to introduce a new transcription factor in the cascade of events that take part of striatal development postulating the existence of at least 4 different neural progenitors in the LGE. An Ascl1-independent but Gsx2- & Dlx1/2-dependent precursor will express Helios defining a new lineage for a subset of matrix striatal neurons.
DOI: 10.1177/2040620711412419PMCID: PMC3573420PMID: 23556102
Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is comprised of multiple subtypes defined by recurring chromosomal alterations that are important events in leukemogenesis and are widely used in diagnosis and risk stratification, yet fail to fully explain the biology of this disease. In the last 5 years, genome-wide profiling of gene expression, structural DNA alterations and sequence variations has yielded important insights into the nature of submicroscopic genetic alterations that define novel subgroups of acute lymphoblastic leukemia and cooperate with known cytogenetic alterations in leukemogenesis. Importantly, several of these alterations are important determinants of risk of relapse and are potential targets for therapeutic intervention. Here, these advances and future directions in the genomic analysis of ALL are discussed.
BACKGROUND: The loss of Ikaros is associated with the development of B and T cell leukemia. Data on Ikaros function, including its role as a tumor suppressor and a regulator of cell cycle progression, come almost exclusively from murine studies; little is known of the mechanisms that regulate human Ikaros function. Our studies are the first to examine the function and regulation of human Ikaros isoforms during the cell cycle in human ALL.PROCEDURES: Electromobility shift assay (EMSA), confocal microscopy, and phosphopeptide mapping were used to study Ikaros function during different stages of the cell cycle.RESULTS: The DNA-binding activity of human Ikaros complexes undergoes dynamic changes as the cell cycle progresses. In S phase, Ikaros DNA-binding affinity for regulatory regions of its target genes decreases, while its binding to pericentromeric heterochromatin is preserved and correlates with Ikaros pericentromeric localization. These S phase-specific changes in Ikaros function are controlled by phosphorylation via the CK2 kinase pathway. During cell cycle progression, the subcellular pericentromeric localization of the largest human Ikaros isoforms is different from that in mouse cells, suggesting unique functions for human Ikaros.CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that the function of Ikaros is cell cycle-specific and controlled by CK2-mediated phosphorylation during S phase of the cell cycle in human T-cell and B-cell ALL. The differences we observe in murine and human Ikaros function highlight the importance of using human cells in studies of ALL. These data identify the CK2 pathway as a target for therapies in ALL.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2012 Jan;13(1):16-8.
B cell development starts in bone marrow with the commitment of hematopoietic progenitors to the B cell lineage. In murine models, the IL-7 and preBCR receptors, and the signaling pathways and transcription factors that they regulate, control commitment and maintenance along the B cell pathway. E2A, EBF1, PAX5, and Ikaros are among the most important transcription factors controlling early development and thereby conditioning mice homeostatic B cell lymphopoiesis. Importantly, their gain or loss of function often results in malignant development in humans, supporting conserved roles for these transcription factors. B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia is the most common cause of pediatric cancer, and it is characterized by unpaired early B cell development resulting from genetic lesions in these critical signaling pathways and transcription factors. Fine mapping of these genetic abnormalities is allowing more specific treatments, more accurately predicting risk profiles for this disease, and improving survival rates.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex trait characterised by the production of a range of auto-antibodies and a diverse set of clinical phenotypes. Currently, ~8% of the genetic contribution to SLE in Europeans is known, following publication of several moderate-sized genome-wide (GW) association studies, which identified loci with a strong effect (OR>1.3). In order to identify additional genes contributing to SLE susceptibility, we conducted a replication study in a UK dataset (870 cases, 5,551 controls) of 23 variants that showed moderate-risk for lupus in previous studies. Association analysis in the UK dataset and subsequent meta-analysis with the published data identified five SLE susceptibility genes reaching genome-wide levels of significance (P(comb)<5×10(-8)): NCF2 (P(comb) = 2.87×10(-11)), IKZF1 (P(comb) = 2.33×10(-9)), IRF8 (P(comb) = 1.24×10(-8)), IFIH1 (P(comb) = 1.63×10(-8)), and TYK2 (P(comb) = 3.88×10(-8)). Each of the five new loci identified here can be mapped into interferon signalling pathways, which are known to play a key role in the pathogenesis of SLE. These results increase the number of established susceptibility genes for lupus to ~30 and validate the importance of using large datasets to confirm associations of loci which moderately increase the risk for disease.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is an allergic, inflammatory skin disease characterized by chronic eczema and mechanical injury to the skin, caused by scratching. Korean red ginseng (RG) has diverse biological activities, but the molecular effects of RG on allergic diseases, like AD, are unclear. The present study was designed to investigate whether RG inhibits 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD in a mouse model. DNCB was applied topically on the dorsal surface of Balb/c mice to induce AD-like skin lesions. We observed the scratching behavior and examined the serum IgE level and interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-10 in splenocytes compared with dexamethasone. We also evaluated the DNCB-induced mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), NF-κB, and Ikaros activities after RG treatment using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, and ELISA. Our data showed that the topical application of RG significantly improved the AD-like skin lesions and scratching behavior. RG decreased not only the mRNA expression of IL-4 and IL-10, but also the secretion of IL-4 protein and serum IgE in mice. Additionally, RG treatment decreased the DNCB-induced MAPKs activity and subsequent Ikaros translocation irrespective of NF-κB. We suggest that RG may be useful as a therapeutic nutrition for the treatment of AD.
The specification of temporal identity within single progenitor lineages is essential to generate functional neuronal diversity in Drosophila and mammals. In Drosophila, four transcription factors are sequentially expressed in neural progenitors (neuroblasts) and each regulates the temporal identity of the progeny produced during its expression window. The first temporal identity is established by the Ikaros-family zinc finger transcription factor Hunchback (Hb). Hb is detected in young (newly-formed) neuroblasts for about an hour and is maintained in the early-born neurons produced during this interval. Hb is necessary and sufficient to specify early-born neuronal or glial identity in multiple neuroblast lineages. The timing of hb expression in neuroblasts is regulated at the transcriptional level. Here we identify cis-regulatory elements that confer proper hb expression in "young" neuroblasts and early-born neurons. We show that the neuroblast element contains clusters of predicted binding sites for the Seven-up transcription factor, which is known to limit hb neuroblast expression. We identify highly conserved sequences in the neuronal element that are good candidates for maintaining Hb transcription in neurons. Our results provide the necessary foundation for identifying trans-acting factors that establish the Hb early temporal expression domain.
CONTEXT: Among 22 independent patients from the GENHYPOPIT network who had ACTH deficiency and no identified mutation of TPIT, three of them (13.6%) displayed common variable immunodeficiency (CVID), characterized by defective Ig production.OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to describe an as yet unrecognized disease association.DESIGN: We considered the hypothesis of ACTH deficiency being associated with antipituitary autoimmunity or lymphocytic hypophysitis. In the context of a functional network between the immune and endocrine systems, we also tested the hypothesis of a common genetic cause using a candidate gene approach.SETTING: This was a multicentric study in three academic hospitals.PATIENTS: We report four patients from three unrelated families presenting with ACTH deficiency and CVID.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Detection of antipituitary autoantibodies, and sequencing of candidate genes (LIF, IKAROS, EOS) were the main outcome measures.RESULTS: All patients including a pedigree with two affected siblings had ACTH deficit diagnosed from 5-15 yr, with symptomatic hypoglycemia, and CVID diagnosed from 2-8 yr revealed by recurrent infections. Three of the four patients had a hypoplastic pituitary. One patient had low IGF-I and subnormal GH response to stimulation, suggesting that secretion of other pituitary hormones may also be affected. All patients proved negative for pituitary autoantibodies and had no alteration in any of the genes tested.CONCLUSIONS: The remarkable association of two rare disorders affecting two functionally related systems in four patients from three independent pedigrees including a familial case provides strong evidence of the existence of a disease association: deficit in anterior pituitary function and variable immune deficiency, or DAVID.
The timing and developmental sequence of events for BCR-ABL1(+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), usually associated with IKAROS (IKZF1) deletions, are unknown. We assessed the status of BCR-ABL1 and IKZF1 genes in 2 pairs of monozygotic twins, one pair concordant, the other discordant for Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph(+)) ALL. The twin pair concordant for ALL shared identical BCR-ABL1 genomic sequence indicative of monoclonal, in utero origin. One twin had IKZF1 deletion and died after transplantation. The other twin had hyperdiploidy, no IKZF1 deletion, and is still in remission 8 years after transplantation. In the twin pair discordant for ALL, neonatal blood spots from both twins harbored the same clonotypic BCR-ABL1 sequence. Low level BCR-ABL1(+) cells were present in the healthy co-twin but lacked the IKZF1 deletion present in the other twin's leukemic cells. The twin with ALL relapsed and died after transplantation. The co-twin remains healthy and leukemia free. These data show that in childhood Ph(+) ALL, BCR-ABL1 gene fusion can be a prenatal and possibly initiating genetic event. In the absence of additional, secondary changes, the leukemic clone remains clinically silent. IKZF1 is a secondary and probable postnatal mutation in these cases, and as a recurrent but alternative copy number change is associated with poor prognosis.
Spleen and bone marrow (BM) have been shown to contain the progenitors of a novel dendritic-like antigen-presenting cell type (L-DC). These progenitors are also maintained in both long-term spleen cultures and co-cultures of spleen or BM over the stromal cell line STX3. We examined mouse foetal liver (FL), rich in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSC/HPC) after embryonic day (E) 12.5, for the presence of L-DC progenitors by testing their capacity to colonize STX3 and produce L-DC. E14.5 FL from wild-type C57BL/6J mice was found to colonize STX3 and produce L-DC for 28 days. By contrast, E14.5 FL from Ikaros Plastic mice gave only short-term production of low numbers of L-DC between 7 and 14 days of co-culture. The transient and weak production of L-DC by FL from Plastic E14.5 mice maps to the loss of self-renewal capacity amongst HSC. L-DC progenitors are, therefore, closely aligned with a subset of self-renewing HSC/HPC in FL.
Foxp3+ T-regulatory cells (Tregs) normally serve to attenuate immune responses and are key to maintenance of immune homeostasis. Over the past decade, Treg cells have become a major focus of research for many groups, and various functional subsets have been characterized. Recently, the Ikaros family member, Helios, was reported as a marker to discriminate naturally occurring, thymic-derived Tregs from those peripherally induced from naïve CD4+ T cells. We investigated Helios expression in murine and human T cells under resting or activating conditions, using well-characterized molecules of naïve/effector/memory phenotypes, as well as a set of Treg-associated markers. We found that Helios-negative T cells are enriched for naïve T cell phenotypes and vice versa. Moreover, Helios can be induced during T cell activation and proliferation, but regresses in the same cells under resting conditions. We demonstrated comparable findings using human and murine CD4+Foxp3+ Tregs, as well as in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Since Helios expression is associated with T cell activation and cellular division, regardless of the cell subset involved, it does not appear suitable as a marker to distinguish natural and induced Treg cells.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the potential role of FoxP3-expressing regulatory T cells (Tregs) in reversing obesity-linked insulin resistance and diabetic nephropathy in rodent models and humans.RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: To characterize the role of Tregs in insulin resistance, human visceral adipose tissue was first evaluated for Treg infiltration and second, the db/db mouse model was evaluated.RESULTS: Obese patients with insulin resistance displayed significantly decreased natural Tregs but an increase in adaptive Tregs in their visceral adipose tissue as compared with lean control subjects. To further evaluate the pathogenic role of Tregs in insulin resistance, the db/db mouse model was used. Treg depletion using an anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody enhanced insulin resistance as shown by increased fasting blood glucose levels as well as an impaired insulin sensitivity. Moreover, Treg-depleted db/db mice developed increased signs of diabetic nephropathy, such as albuminuria and glomerular hyperfiltration. This was paralleled by a proinflammatory milieu in both murine visceral adipose tissue and the kidney. Conversely, adoptive transfer of CD4(+)FoxP3(+) Tregs significantly improved insulin sensitivity and diabetic nephropathy. Accordingly, there was increased mRNA expression of FoxP3 as well as less abundant proinflammatory CD8(+)CD69(+) T cells in visceral adipose tissue and kidneys of Treg-treated animals.CONCLUSIONS: Data suggest a potential therapeutic value of Tregs to improve insulin resistance and end organ damage in type 2 diabetes by limiting the proinflammatory milieu.
The BCR-ABL1 induces chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Recent studies revealed high ratios of loss of the IKZF1 gene which encodes IKAROS in BCR-ABL1+ ALL and lymphoblastic crisis (LBC) of CML. However, little is known about the cooperativity between the aberrant IKAROS and BCR-ABL1 in primary human hematopoietic cells. We investigated the effects of expression of BCR-ABL1 and/or IK6, a natural dominant negative isoform of IKAROS, on proliferation and differentiation of human CD34+ cord blood cells with or without human bone marrow-derived stromal cells which support early B cell differentiation. Cell proliferation was remarkably enhanced by co-expression of BCR-ABL1 and IK6, with reduced expression of glycophorin A and increased expression of CD41, especially on stromal cells, compared with expression of BCR-ABL1 alone that resulted in expansion of erythroid progenitors. Interestingly, p190BCR-ABL1 showed higher dependency on stromal cells to stimulate cell growth with IK6, than p210BCR-ABL1. Furthermore, the cooperation was found to depend on direct cell adhesive interaction of hematopoietic progenitors with stromal cells. These findings suggest that IK6 and BCR-ABL1 synergistically contribute to leukemogenesis in human bone marrow stromal microenvironment, and may provide a clue to elucidate the mechanisms of leukemogenesis of Ph+ ALL and CML-LBC.
Recent studies have shown that SNPs mapping to 7p12.2 (IKZF1), 9p21 (CDKN2A), 10q21.2 (ARID5B), and 14q11.2 (CEBPE) and carrier status for recessively inherited Nijmegen Breakage syndrome (NBS) influence childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) risk. To examine these relationship, we analysed 398 ALL cases and 731 controls from Poland. Statistically significant association between genotype at 7p12.2 (IKZF1), 10q21.2 (ARID5B) and the NBS associated locus, 8q21.3 (NBN) and ALL risk was found; odds ratios (ORs), 1.34 (P=0.002), 1.33 (P=0.003), and 1325.21 (P=0.0028), respectively. These data provide further insights into the biological basis of ALL highlighting the existence of both common and rare disease susceptibility variants.
Successful thymocyte maturation is essential for normal, peripheral T cell function. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a neuropeptide which is highly expressed in the thymus that has been shown to modulate thymocyte development. VIP predominantly binds two G protein coupled receptors, termed vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor 1 (VPAC1) and VPAC2, but their expression profiles in CD4(-)/CD8(-) (double negative, DN) thymocyte subsets, termed DN1-4, have yet to be identified. We hypothesized that a high VPAC1:VPAC2 ratio in the earliest thymocyte progenitors (ETP cells) would be reversed during early lymphopoiesis as observed in activated, peripheral Th(2) cells, as the thymus is rich in Th(2) cytokines. In support of this hypothesis, high VPAC1 mRNA levels decreased 1000-fold, accompanied with a simultaneous increase in VPAC2 mRNA expression during early thymocyte progenitor (ETP/DN1)→DN3 differentiation. Moreover, arrested DN3 cells derived from an Ikaros null mouse (JE-131 cells) failed to completely reverse the VIP receptor ratio compared to wild type DN3 thymocytes. Surprisingly, VPAC2(-/-) mice did not show significant changes in relative thymocyte subset numbers. These data support the notion that both VPAC1 and VPAC2 receptors are dynamically regulated by Ikaros, a master transcriptional regulator for thymocyte differentiation, during early thymic development. Moreover, high VPAC1 mRNA is a novel marker for the ETP population making it enticing to speculate that the chemotactic VIP/VPAC1 signaling axis may play a role in thymocyte movement. Also, despite the results that VPAC2 deficiency did not affect thymic subset numbers, future studies are necessary to determine whether downstream T cell phenotypic changes manifest themselves, such as a propensity for a Th(1) versus Th(2) polarization.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei Province, China.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been proposed as a potential target for cardioprotection in regulating cardiovascular functions, owing to its key role in the formation of the vasoprotective peptides angiotensin-(1-7) from angiotensin II (Ang II). The regulatory mechanism of ace2 expression, however, remains to be explored. In this study, we investigated the regulatory element within the upstream of ace2. The human ace2 promoter region, from position -2069 to +20, was cloned and a series of upstream deletion mutants were constructed and cloned into a luciferase reporter vector. The reporter luciferase activity was analyzed by transient transfection of the constructs into human cardiofibroblasts (HCFs) and an activating domain was identified in the -516/-481 region. Deletion or reversal of this domain within ace2 resulted in a significant decrease in promoter activity. The nuclear proteins isolated from the HCFs formed a DNA-protein complex with double stranded oligonucleotides of the -516/-481 domain, as detected by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Site-directed mutagenesis of this region identified a putative protein binding domain and a potential binding site, ATTTGGA, homologous to that of an Ikaros binding domain. This regulatory element was responsible for Ang II stimulation via the Ang II-Ang II type-1 receptor (AT1R) signaling pathway, but was not responsible for pro-inflammatory cytokines TGF-β1 and TNF-α. Our results suggest that the nucleotide sequences -516/-481 of human ace2 may be a binding domain for an as yet unidentified regulatory factor(s) that regulates ace2 expression and is associated with Ang II stimulation.
