Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) are a common source of morbidity in people living with HIV (PLWH). Although antiretroviral therapy (ART) has lessened the severity of neurocognitive disorders, cognitive impairment still occurs in PLWH receiving ART. The pathogenesis of HAND is likely multifaceted, but common factors include the persistence of HIV transcription within the central nervous system, higher levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the cerebrospinal fluid, and the presence of activated microglia. Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 and TLR8 are innate pathogen recognition receptors located in microglia and other immune and non-immune cells that can recognise HIV RNA and trigger pro-inflammatory responses. IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) 1 is key to these signalling pathways. Here, we show that IRAK1 inhibition inhibits the TLR7 and TLR8-dependent pro-inflammatory response to HIV RNA. Using genetic and pharmacological inhibition, we demonstrate that inhibition of IRAK1 prevents IRAK1 phosphorylation and ubiquitination, and the subsequent recruitment of TRAF6 and the TAK1 complex to IRAK1, resulting in the inhibition of downstream signalling and the suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokine and chemokine release.
BACKGROUND: Airway epithelial cells from patients with COPD show suboptimal innate immune responses to nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) and Toll-like receptor (TLR)2 ligands despite expressing TLR2 similar to normal airway epithelial cells, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood.METHODS: Normal or COPD mucociliary-differentiated airway epithelial cells were treated with TLR2 agonists or infected with NTHi and expression of β-defensin (HBD)2 was examined. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 and microRNA (miR)146a were genetically inhibited in normal and COPD airway epithelial cell cultures, respectively, and HBD2 responses to TLR2 ligands were determined. IRAK-1 expression in lung sections was determined by immunofluorescence microscopy.RESULTS: Compared to normal, COPD airway epithelial cell cultures showed impaired expression of HBD2 in response to TLR2 agonists or NTHi infection. Apical secretions from TLR2 agonist-treated normal, but not COPD, airway epithelial cells efficiently killed NTHi. Knockdown of HBD2 significantly reduced NTHi killing by apical secretions of normal airway epithelial cells. Compared to normal, COPD cells showed significantly reduced expression of IRAK-1 and this was associated with increased expression of miR146a. Inhibition of miR146a increased the expression of IRAK-1, improved the expression of HBD2 in response to TLR2 agonists in COPD cells and enhanced the killing of bacteria by apical secretions obtained from TLR2 agonist-treated COPD cells. Bronchial epithelium of COPD patients showed reduced expression of IRAK-1.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that reduced levels of IRAK-1 due to increased expression of miR146a may contribute to impaired expression of TLR2-induced HBD2 in COPD airway epithelial cells.
Dysregulation of innate immune signaling is a hallmark of hematologic malignancies. Recent therapeutic efforts to subvert aberrant innate immune signaling in MDS and AML have focused on the kinase IRAK4. IRAK4 inhibitors have achieved promising, though moderate, responses in pre-clinical studies and in clinical trials for MDS and AML. The reasons underlying the limited responses to IRAK4 inhibitors remain unknown. Here, we reveal that inhibiting IRAK4 in leukemic cells elicits functional complementation and compensation by its paralog, IRAK1. Using genetic approaches, we demonstrate that co-targeting IRAK1 and IRAK4 is required to suppress leukemic stem/progenitor cell (LSPC) function and induce differentiation in cell lines and patient-derived cells. While IRAK1 and IRAK4 are presumed to function primarily downstream of the proximal adapter MyD88, we found that complimentary and compensatory IRAK1 and IRAK4 dependencies in MDS/AML occur via non-canonical MyD88-independent pathways. Genomic and proteomic analyses revealed that IRAK1 and IRAK4 preserve the undifferentiated state of MDS/AML LSPCs by coordinating a network of pathways, including ones that converge on the PRC2 complex and JAK-STAT signaling. To translate these findings, we implemented a structure-based design of a potent and selective dual IRAK1 and IRAK4 inhibitor KME-2780. MDS/AML cell lines and patient-derived samples showed significant suppression of LSPCs in vitro and in xenograft studies when treated with KME-2780 as compared to selective IRAK4 inhibitors. Our results provide a mechanistic basis and rationale for co-targeting IRAK1 and IRAK4 for the treatment of cancers, including MDS/AML.
PURPOSE: To investigate the expression of Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cells (pDCs) and TLR7/9-MyD88-IRAKs pathway in chronic eczema lesions.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Lesional tissues and the surrounding healthy tissues were collected from 25 individuals with chronic eczema, and immunohistochemistry was used to detect and comparatively analyze the expression profile of CD123, CD2AP, toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7), toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) along with interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7) in signaling pathways.RESULTS: The positive rates of CD2AP + pDC and CD123 + pDC in lesional tissues were significantly elevated compared to the surrounding healthy tissues (P < 0.05). They were distributed in both the epidermal and dermal layers of the lesional tissue, but the majority were in the dermal layer. The TLR7, TLR9, IRAK1 and IRF7 were more expressed in dermal layers of the lesional tissue with higher positive rates of expression compared to the surrounding healthy tissues (P < 0.05). IRAK1 and IRF7 were expressed in a small amount in the epidermal layer with higher positive rates of expression than in the surrounding healthy tissues (P < 0.05), while the positive rates of TLR7 and TLR9 expression in the epidermal layer were not statistically different from those in the surrounding healthy tissues (P > 0.05).CONCLUSION: PDC and TLR7/9-MyD88-IRAKs pathways are actively expressed in chronic eczema lesions and may be involved in pathogenesis and disease progression.
MicroRNA-146b-5p (miR-146b-5p) is up-regulated during and to suppress the inflammation process, although mechanisms involved in the action of miR-146b-5p have not been fully elucidated. This study examined the anti-inflammation effects of miR-146b-5p in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated human dental pulp cells (hDPCs). An increase in human miR-146b-5p (hsa-miR-146b-5p) expression following the mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines was observed in LPS-stimulated hDPCs. The expression of hsa-miR-146b-5p and pro-inflammatory cytokines was down-regulated by a nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) inhibitor, and the expression of hsa-miR-146b-5p was also decreased by a JAK1/2 inhibitor. Enforced expression of hsa-miR-146b-5p abolished phosphorylation of NF-κB p65 and down-regulated the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and NF-κB signaling components, such as interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and REL-associated protein involved in NF-κB (RELA). Expression of rat miR-146b-5p (rno-miR-146b-5p) and pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNA was also up-regulated in experimentally-induced rat pulpal inflammation in vivo, and rno-miR-146b-5p blocked the mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and NF-κB signaling components in LPS-stimulated ex vivo cultured rat incisor pulp tissues. These findings suggest that the synthesis of miR-146b-5p is controlled via an NF-κB/IL6/STAT3 signaling cascade, and in turn, miR-146b-5p down-regulates the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators by targeting TRAF6, IRAK1, and RELA in LPS-stimulated hDPCs.
This study aimed to investigate the effect of sea cucumber hydrolysate (SCH) on immunosuppressed mice induced by cyclophosphamide (Cy). Our findings demonstrated that SCH could increase the thymus index and spleen index, decrease the serum alanine transaminase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels, increase the serum IgG and small intestinal sIgA levels, reduce small intestinal and colon tissue damage, and activate the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) pathway by increasing TRAF6 and IRAK1 protein levels, as well as the phosphorylation levels of IκBα and p65, thereby enhancing immunity. In addition, SCH alleviated the imbalance of the gut microbiota by altering the composition of the gut microbiota in immunosuppressed mice. At the genus level, when compared with the model group, the relative abundance of Dubosiella, Lachnospiraceae, and Ligilactobacillus increased, while that of Lactobacillus, Bacteroides, and Turicibacter decreased in the SCH groups. Moreover, 26 potential bioactive peptides were identified by oligopeptide sequencing and bioactivity prediction. This study's findings thus provide an experimental basis for further development of SCH as a nutritional supplement to alleviate immunosuppression induced by Cy as well as provides a new idea for alleviating intestinal damage induced by Cy.
Inflammation is associated with the pathogenesis of Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and emerging evidence suggests that MDS hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) exhibit an altered response to inflammation. Deletion of chromosome 5 (del(5q)) is the most common chromosomal abnormality in MDS. Although this MDS subtype contains several haploinsufficient genes that impact innate immune signaling, the effects of inflammation on del(5q) MDS HSPCs remains undefined. Utilizing a model of del(5q)-like MDS, inhibiting the IRAK1/4-TRAF6 axis improved cytopenias, suggesting that activation of innate immune pathways contributes to certain clinical features underlying the pathogenesis of low-risk MDS. However, low-grade inflammation in the del(5q)-like MDS model did not contribute to more severe disease but instead impaired the del(5q)-like HSPCs as indicated by their diminished numbers, premature attrition and increased p53 expression. Del(5q)-like HSPCs exposed to inflammation became less quiescent, but without affecting cell viability. Unexpectedly, the reduced cellular quiescence of del(5q) HSPCs exposed to inflammation was restored by p53 deletion. These findings uncovered that inflammation confers a competitive advantage of functionally defective del(5q) HSPCs upon loss of p53. Since TP53 mutations are enriched in del(5q) AML following an MDS diagnosis, increased p53 activation in del(5q) MDS HSPCs due to inflammation may create a selective pressure for genetic inactivation of p53 or expansion of a pre-existing TP53-mutant clone.
Theta- (θ-) defensins are pleiotropic host defense peptides with antimicrobial- and immune-modulating activities. Immune stimulation of cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS, endotoxin) activates proinflammatory gene expression and cytokine secretion, both of which are attenuated by rhesus theta-defensin-1 (RTD-1) inhibition of NF-κB and MAP kinase pathways. Endotoxin tolerance is a condition that ensues when cells have an extended primary exposure to low levels of LPS, resulting in resistance to a subsequent LPS challenge. Recognition of LPS by Toll-like receptor-4 (TLR4) activates NF-κB, elevating levels of microRNA-146a (miR-146a), which targets IRAK1 and TRAF6 transcripts to reduce their protein levels and inhibits TLR signaling on secondary LPS stimulation. Here, we report that RTD-1 suppressed the expression of miR-146a and stabilized the IRAK1 protein in immune-stimulated, monocytic THP-1 cells. Cells that had primary exposure to LPS became endotoxin-tolerant, as evident from their failure to secrete TNF-α upon secondary endotoxin challenge. However, cells incubated with RTD-1 during the primary LPS stimulation secreted TNF-α after secondary LPS stimulation in an RTD-1 dose-dependent manner. Consistent with this, compared to the control treatment, cells treated with RTD-1 during primary LPS stimulation had increased NF-κB activity after secondary LPS stimulation. These results show that RTD-1 suppresses endotoxin tolerance by inhibiting the NF-κB pathway and demonstrates a novel inflammatory role for RTD-1 that is mediated by the downregulation of miR-146a during the innate immune response.
This study aims to confirm whether apolipoprotein C3 (ApoC3) can regulate the inflammatory response and tissue damage in acute lung injury (ALI) and explore its regulatory pathway. ALI mouse model was established by intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). ApoC3 levels were detected by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, and western blot assays. The levels of various inflammatory factors were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and western blot analysis. Finally, the expression of toll-like receptor (TLR)/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathway-related protein [TLR2, myeloid differentiation primary response protein 88 (MyD88), IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), NF-κB p65, and inhibitor of kappa B alpha (IκBα)], SLP adaptor and CSK interacting membrane protein (SCIMP), spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk), and phosphorylated (p)-Syk was detected by western blot analysis. ApoC3 was overexpressed in ALI mouse lung tissue and cell inflammation model. Silencing ApoC3 reduced inflammatory factors and alleviated lung tissue damage in ALI mice. Silencing ApoC3 reduced inflammatory factors and downregulated the expression of TLR2, MyD88, IRAK1, NF-κB p65, and increased IκBα expression in LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells. Moreover, co-transfection of si-TLR2 and shApoC3 further enhanced the inhibitory effects on the levels of inflammatory factors induced by silencing ApoC3. ApoC3 overexpression increased the levels of inflammatory factors and protein expression of SCIMP and p-Syk, while silencing TLR2 reversed the promotive effects of ApoC3 overexpression on above factors. In LPS-induced ALI mouse model and inflammatory cell model, downregulation of ApoC3 reduced inflammatory factors and relieved tissue damage. This process might be achieved through the TLR pathway.
Radiotherapy is the standard adjuvant treatment for glioma patients; however, the efficacy is limited by radioresistance. The function of Interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) in tumorigenesis and radioresistance remains to be elucidated. IRAK1 expression and its correlation with prognosis were analyzed in glioma tissues. We found that glioma patients with overexpressed IRAK1 show a poor prognosis. Notably, ionizing radiation (IR) remarkably induces IRAK1 expression, which was decreased by STING antagonist H-151 treatment. JASPAR prediction, ChIP assays, and dual luciferase reporter assays indicated that transcription factor FOXA2, suppressed by STING inhibition, directly binds to the IRAK1 promoter region and activates its transcription. IRAK1 knockdown inhibits malignancy and enhances the radiosensitivity of glioma in vitro and in vivo. To explore the potential IRAK1 interacting targets mediating the radioresistance of glioma cells, IP/Co-IP, LC-MS/MS, GST pull-down, and ubiquitination analyses were conducted. Mechanistically, IRAK1 bound to PRDX1, a major member of antioxidant enzymes, and further prevents ubiquitination and degradation of PRDX1 mediated by E3 ubiquitin ligase HECTD3; Both the DOC and HECT domains of HECTD3 directly interacted with PRDX1 protein. Overexpression of PRDX1 reverses the radiotherapy sensitization effect of IRAK1 depletion by diminishing autophagic cell death. These results suggest the IRAK1-PRDX1 axis provides a potential therapeutic target for glioma patients.
MyD88-dependent pathway mediated by Toll-like receptor is one of the vital ways activating immune responses. In order to identify the role of MyD88-dependent signaling pathway in yellow catfish, the Pf_MyD88, Pf_IRAK4, Pf_IRAK1, Pf_TRAF6 and Pf_NFκB1 (p105) (Pf: abbreviation of Pelteobagrus fulvidraco) were cloned and characterized respectively. The Pf_MyD88, Pf_IRAK4, Pf_IRAK1 and Pf_TRAF6 were all highly conserved among species and showed the highest homology to that of Pangasianodon hypophthalmus. Pf_NFκB1 showed the highest homology to that of Ictalurus punetaus. All of the five genes showed similar expression patterns in various tissues, with the highest expression level in the liver. These genes also showed similar expression levels in different embryonic development stages, except Pf_IRAK4. The higher expression level was detected from fertilized eggs to 1 day post hatching (dph), lower expression from 3 dph to 30 dph. After stimulation of inactivated Aeromonas hydrophila, the mRNA expressions of Pf_MyD88, Pf_IRAK4, Pf_IRAK1, Pf_TRAF6 and Pf_NFκB1 were significantly increased at 24 h in the liver, spleen, head kidney and trunk kidney, suggesting that all the five genes were involved in the innate immune response of yellow catfish. These results showed that MyD88-dependent signaling pathway plays important roles for disease defensing in the innate immune response. Meanwhile, inactivated A. hydrophila can cause strong innate immune response, which provides theoretical bases for the application of inactivated vaccines in defense against bacterial diseases of teleost.
PURPOSE: To investigate the efficacy and mechanisms of human umbilical cord-derived MSC-derived extracellular vesicles (hucMSC-EVs) in a mouse model of desiccation-induced dry eye disease (DED).METHODS: hucMSC-EVs were enriched by ultracentrifugation. The DED model was induced by desiccating environment combined with scopolamine administration. The DED mice were divided into the hucMSC-EVs group, fluorometholone (FML) group, PBS group, and blank control group. Tear secretion, corneal fluorescein staining, the cytokine profiles in tears and goblet cells, TUNEL-positive cell, and CD4+ cells were examined to assess therapeutic efficiency. The miRNAs in the hucMSC-EVs were sequenced, and the top 10 were used for miRNA enrichment analysis and annotation. The targeted DED-related signaling pathway was further verified by using RT‒qPCR and western blotting.RESULTS: Treatment with hucMSC-EVs increased the tear volume and maintained corneal integrity in DED mice. The cytokine profile in the tears of the hucMSC-EVs group presented with a lower level of proinflammatory cytokines than PBS group. Moreover, hucMSC-EVs treatment increased goblet cell density and inhibited cell apoptosis and CD4+ cell infiltration. Functional analysis of the top 10 miRNAs in hucMSC-EVs showed a high correlation with immunity. Among them, miR-125 b, let-7b, and miR-6873 were conserved between humans and mice and were associated with the IRAK1/TAB2/NF-κB pathway that was activated in DED. Furthermore, IRAK1/TAB2/NF-κB pathway activation and the abnormal expression of IL-4, IL-8, IL-10, IL-13, IL-17, and TNF-α were reversed by hucMSC-EVs.CONCLUSIONS: hucMSCs-EVs alleviate DED signs, suppress inflammation and restore homeostasis of the corneal surface by multitargeting the IRAK1/TAB2/NF-κB pathway via certain miRNAs.
Pluronic F127 (PF127) hydrogel has been highlighted as a promising biomaterial for bone regeneration, but the specific molecular mechanism remains largely unknown. Herein, we addressed this issue in a temperature-responsive PF127 hydrogel loaded with bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs)-derived exosomes (Exos) (PF127 hydrogel@BMSC-Exos) during alveolar bone regeneration. Genes enriched in BMSC-Exos and upregulated during the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs and their downstream regulators were predicted by bioinformatics analyses. CTNNB1 was predicted to be the key gene of BMSC-Exos in the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs, during which miR-146a-5p, IRAK1, and TRAF6 might be the downstream factors. Osteogenic differentiation was induced in BMSCs, in which ectopic expression of CTNNB1 was introduced and from which Exos were isolated. The CTNNB1-enriched PF127 hydrogel@BMSC-Exos were constructed and implanted into in vivo rat models of alveolar bone defects. In vitro experiment data showed that PF127 hydrogel@BMSC-Exos efficiently delivered CTNNB1 to BMSCs, which subsequently promoted the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs, as evidenced by enhanced ALP staining intensity and activity, extracellular matrix mineralization (p < 0.05), and upregulated RUNX2 and OCN expression (p < 0.05). Functional experiments were conducted to examine the relationships among CTNNB1, microRNA (miR)-146a-5p, and IRAK1 and TRAF6. Mechanistically, CTNNB1 activated miR-146a-5p transcription to downregulate IRAK1 and TRAF6 (p < 0.05), which induced the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs and facilitated alveolar bone regeneration in rats (increased new bone formation and elevated BV/TV ratio and BMD, all with p < 0.05). Collectively, CTNNB1-containing PF127 hydrogel@BMSC-Exos promote the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs by regulating the miR-146a-5p/IRAK1/TRAF6 axis, thus inducing the repair of alveolar bone defects in rats.
BACKGROUND: Substantial evidence suggests that immunoproteasome is implicated in the various neurological diseases such as stroke, multiple sclerosis and neurodegenerative diseases. However, whether the immunoproteasome itself deficiency causes brain disease is still unclear. Therefore, the aim of this study was to explore the contribution of the immunoproteasome subunit low molecular weight protein 2 (LMP2) in neurobehavioral functions.METHODS: Male LMP2 gene completed knockout (LMP2-KO) and littermate wild type (WT) Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats aged 12-month-old were used for neurobehavioral testing and detection of proteins expression by western blotting and immunofluorescence. A battery of neurobehavioral test tools including Morris water maze (MWM), open field maze, elevated plus maze were used to evaluate the neurobehavioral changes in rats. Evans blue (EB) assay, Luxol fast blue (LFB) and Dihydroethidium (DHE) staining were applied to explore the blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, brain myelin damage and brain intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, respectively.RESULTS: We firstly found that LMP2 gene deletion did not cause significantly difference in rats' daily feeding activity, growth and development as well as blood routine, but it led to metabolic abnormalities including higher levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, uric acid and blood glucose in the LMP2-KO rats. Compared with the WT rats, LMP2-KO rats displayed obviously cognitive impairment and decreased exploratory activities, increased anxiety-like behavior and without strong effects on gross locomotor abilities. Furthermore, multiple myelin loss, increased BBB leakage, downregulation of tight junction proteins ZO-1, claudin-5 and occluding, and enhanced amyloid-β protein deposition were observed in brain regions of LMP2-KO rats. In addition, LMP2 deficiency significantly enhanced oxidative stress with elevated levels of ROS, caused the reactivation of astrocytes and microglials and markedly upregulated protein expression levels of interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) compared to the WT rats, respectively.CONCLUSION: These findings highlight LMP2 gene global deletion causes significant neurobehavioral dysfunctions. All these factors including metabolic abnormalities, multiple myelin loss, elevated levels of ROS, increased BBB leakage and enhanced amyloid-β protein deposition maybe work together and eventually led to chronic oxidative stress and neuroinflammation response in the brain regions of LMP2-KO rats, which contributed to the initial and progress of cognitive impairment.
OBJECTIVE: The DNA integrity of spermatozoa that attach to fallopian tube (FT) cells is higher than spermatozoa that do not attach. FT epithelial cells can distinguish normal and abnormal sperm chromatin. This study investigated the effects of sperm with a high-DNA fragmentation index (DFI) from men with unexplained repeated implantation failure (RIF) on the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway in human FT cells in vitro.METHODS: Ten men with a RIF history and high-DFI and 10 healthy donors with low-DFI comprised the high-DFI (>30%) and control (<30%) groups, respectively. After fresh semen preparation, sperm were co-cultured with a human FT epithelial cell line (OE-E6/E7) for 24 hours. RNA was extracted from the cell line and the human innate and adaptive immune responses were tested using an RT2 profiler polymerase chain reaction (PCR) array.RESULTS: The PCR array data showed significantly higher TLR-1, TLR-2, TLR-3, TLR-6, interleukin 1α (IL-1α), IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12, interferon α (IFN-α), IFN-β, tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), CXCL8, GM-CSF, G-CSF, CD14, ELK1, IRAK1, IRAK2, IRAK4, IRF1, IRF3, LY96, MAP2K3, MAP2K4, MAP3K7, MAP4K4, MAPK8, MAPK8IP3, MYD88, NFKB1, NFKB2, REL, TIRAP, and TRAF6 expression in the high-DFI group than in the control group. These factors are all involved in the TLR-MyD88 signaling pathway.CONCLUSION: The MyD88-dependent pathway through TLR-1, TLR-2, and TLR-6 activation may be one of the main inflammatory pathways activated by high-DFI sperm from men with RIF. Following activation of this pathway, epithelial cells produce inflammatory cytokines, resulting in neutrophil infiltration, activation, phagocytosis, neutrophil extracellular trap formation, and apoptosis.
Biological events that contribute to the pathogenesis of myelodysplastic syndromes/neoplasms (MDS) are becoming increasingly characterized and are being translated into rationally designed therapeutic strategies. Herein, we provide updates from the first International Workshop on MDS (iwMDS) of the International Consortium for MDS (icMDS) detailing recent advances in understanding the genetic landscape of MDS, including germline predisposition, epigenetic and immune dysregulation, the complexities of clonal hematopoiesis progression to MDS, as well as novel animal models of the disease. Connected to this progress is the development of novel therapies targeting specific molecular alterations, the innate immune system, and immune checkpoint inhibitors. While some of these agents have entered clinical trials (e.g., splicing modulators, IRAK1/4 inhibitors, anti-CD47 and anti-TIM3 antibodies, and cellular therapies), none have been approved for MDS. Additional preclinical and clinical work is needed to develop a truly individualized approach to the care of MDS patients.
Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) have aroused a lot of interest as reliable blood diagnostic biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we investigated the panel of expressed blood miRNAs in response to aggregated Aβ1-42 peptides infused in the hippocampus of adult rats to mimic events of the early onset of non-familial AD disorder. Aβ1-42 peptides in the hippocampus led to cognitive impairments associated with an astrogliosis and downregulation of circulating miRNA-146a-5p, -29a-3p, -29c-3p, -125b-5p, and-191-5p. We established the kinetics of expression of selected miRNAs and found differences with those detected in the APPswe/PS1dE9 transgenic mouse model. Of note, miRNA-146a-5p was exclusively dysregulated in the Aβ-induced AD model. The treatment of primary astrocytes with Aβ1-42 peptides led to miRNA-146a-5p upregulation though the activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway, which in turn downregulated IRAK-1 but not TRAF-6 expression. As a consequence, no induction of IL-1β, IL-6, or TNF-α was detected. Astrocytes treated with a miRNA-146-5p inhibitor rescued IRAK-1 and changed TRAF-6 steady-state levels that correlated with the induction of IL-6, IL-1β, and CXCL1 production, indicating that miRNA-146a-5p operates anti-inflammatory functions through a NF-κB pathway negative feedback loop. Overall, we report a panel of circulating miRNAs that correlated with Aβ1-42 peptides' presence in the hippocampus and provide mechanistic insights into miRNA-146a-5p biological function in the development of the early stage of sporadic AD.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns and trigger an inflammatory response via the myeloid differential factor 88 (MyD88)-dependent and toll-interleukin-1 receptor domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-β (TRIF)-dependent pathways. Lindenane type sesquiterpene dimers (LSDs) are characteristic metabolites of plants belonging to the genus Sarcandra (Chloranthaceae). The aim of this study was to evaluate the potential anti-inflammatory effects of the LSDs shizukaol D (1) and sarcandrolide E (2) on lipopolysaccharides (LPS)-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages in vitro, and explore the underlying mechanisms. Both LSDs neutralized the LPS-induced morphological changes and production of nitric oxide (NO), as determined by CCK-8 assay and Griess assay, respectively. Furthermore, shizukaol D (1) and sarcandrolide E (2) downregulated interferon β (IFNβ), tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) mRNA levels as measured by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and inhibited the phosphorylation of nuclear factor kappa B p65 (p65), nuclear factor kappa-Bα (IκBα), Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), extracellular regulated kinase (ERK), mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 (p38), MyD88, IL-1RI-associated protein kinase 1 (IRAK1), and transforming growth factor-β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) proteins in the Western blotting assay. In conclusion, LSDs can alleviate the inflammatory response by inhibiting the TLR/MyD88 signalling pathway.
INTRODUCTION: Neuroinflammation contributes to secondary injury after traumatic brain injury (TBI), which has been mainly mediated by the microglia. MiR-124 was reported to play an important role in the polarization of microglia by targeting TLR4 signaling pathway. However, the role and mechanism of miR-124 in neuroinflammation mediated by microglia after TBI is unclear. To clarify this, we performed this research.METHODS: The expression of miR-124 was first measured by RT-PCR in the injured brain at 1/3/7 days post-TBI. Then, miR-124 mimics or inhibitors administration was used to interfere the expression of miR-124 at 24 h post-TBI. Subsequently, the microglia polarization markers were detected by RT-PCR, the expression of inflammatory cytokines was detected by ELISA, the expression of TLR4/MyD88/IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB was measured by WB, and the neurological deficit was evaluated by NSS and MWM test. At last, in vitro experiments were performed to explore the exact target molecule of miR-124 on TLR4 signaling pathway.RESULTS: Animal research indicated that the expression of miR-124 was downregulated after TBI. Upregulation of miR-124 promoted the M2 polarization of microglia and inhibited the activity of TLR4 pathway, as well as reduced neuroinflammation and neurological deficit after TBI. In vitro experiments indicated that miR-124 promoted the M2 polarization of microglia and reduced neuroinflammation by inhibiting TRAF6.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that upregulation of miR-124 promoted the M2 polarization of microglia and reduced neuroinflammation after TBI by inhibiting TRAF6.
While it is considered one of the most common cancers and the leading cause of death in men worldwide, prognostic stratification and treatment modalities are still limited for patients with prostate cancer (PCa). Recently, the introduction of genomic profiling and the use of new techniques like next-generation sequencing (NGS) in many cancers provide novel tools for the discovery of new molecular targets that might improve our understanding of the genomic aberrations in PCa and the discovery of novel prognostic and therapeutic targets. In this study, we investigated the possible mechanisms through which Dickkopf-3 (DKK3) produces its possible protective role in PCa using NGS in both the DKK3 overexpression PCa cell line (PC3) model and our patient cohort consisting of nine PCa and five benign prostatic hyperplasia. Interestingly, our results have shown that DKK3 transfection-modulated genes are involved in the regulation of cell motility, senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), and cytokine signaling in the immune system, as well as in the regulation of adaptive immune response. Further analysis of our NGS using our in vitro model revealed the presence of 36 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between DKK3 transfected cells and PC3 empty vector. In addition, both CP and ACE2 genes were differentially expressed not only between the transfected and empty groups but also between the transfected and Mock cells. The top common DEGs between the DKK3 overexpression cell line and our patient cohort are the following: IL32, IRAK1, RIOK1, HIST1H2BB, SNORA31, AKR1B1, ACE2, and CP. The upregulated genes including IL32, HIST1H2BB, and SNORA31 showed tumor suppressor functions in various cancers including PCa. On the other hand, both IRAK1 and RIOK1 were downregulated and involved in tumor initiation, tumor progression, poor outcome, and radiotherapy resistance. Together, our results highlighted the possible role of the DKK3-related genes in protecting against PCa initiation and progression.
Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) play an important role in modulating intestinal microbiota, and our previous study showed that autochthonous Baccilus siamensis LF4 could shape the intestinal microbiota of spotted seabass (Lateolabrax maculatus). In the present study, a spotted seabass intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) model was used to investigate whether autochthonous B. siamensis LF4 could modulate the expression of AMPs in IECs. And then, the IECs were treated with active, heat-inactivated LF4 and its supernatant to illustrate their AMPs inducing effects and the possible signal transduction mechanisms. The results showed that after 3 h of incubation with 108 CFU/mL B. siamensis LF4, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT), glutamic propylic transaminase (GPT) activities in supernatant decreased significantly and obtained minimum values, while supernatant alkaline phosphatase (AKP) activity, β-defensin protein level and IECs Na+/K+-ATPase activity, AMPs (β-defensin, hepcidin-1, NK-lysin, piscidin-5) genes expression increased significantly and obtained maximum values (P < 0.05). Further study demonstrated that the active, heat-inactivated LF4 and its supernatant treatments could effectively decrease the LDH, GOT, and GPT activities in IECs supernatant, increase AKP activity and β-defensin (except LF4 supernatant treatment) protein level in IECs supernatant and Na+/K+-ATPase and AMPs genes expression in IECs. Treatment with active and heat-inactivated B. siamensis LF4 resulted in significantly up-regulated the expressions of TLR1, TLR2, TLR3, TLR5, NOD1, NOD2, TIRAP, MyD88, IRAK1, IRAK4, TRAF6, TAB1, TAB2, ERK, JNK, p38, AP-1, IKKα, IKKβ and NF-κB genes. Treatment with B. siamensis LF4 supernatant also resulted in up-regulated these genes, but not the genes (ERK, JNK, p38, and AP-1) in MAPKs pathway. In summary, active, heat-inactivated and supernatant of B. siamensis LF4 can efficiently induce AMPs expression through activating the TLRs/NLRs-MyD88-dependent signaling, active and heat-inactivated LF4 activated both the downstream MAPKs and NF-κB pathways, while LF4 supernatant only activated NF-κB pathway.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to investigate whether the IRAK1/JAK2/Flt3 inhibitor pacritinib prevents disease development in the lupus-prone ABIN1[D485N] knock-in mouse.METHODS: ABIN1[D485N] knock-in mice aged 8 weeks were fed for 10 weeks on a diet containing pacritinib. Body weight was monitored, and serum collected at the end to measure pacritinib, autoantibody and immunoglobulin levels. Splenic immune cell populations were analysed, and the kidney, liver and lungs examined for pathology.RESULTS: Pacritinib prevented multiple facets of the lupus phenotype in ABIN1[D485N] knock-in mice, including splenomegaly, expansion of splenic germinal centre B cells, follicular T helper cells, and neutrophils, elevated serum levels of double-stranded DNA antibodies and immunoglobulins, glomerular IgA and lung inflammation.CONCLUSIONS: Pacritinib may be useful for the treatment of multiorgan inflammation in patients with lupus.
The gill of fish is an important immune organ for pathogen defense, but its microRNA (miRNA) expression and regulatory mechanism remain unclear. In this study, we report on the histopathological and immunohistochemical features of the gills of the crucian carp Carassius auratus challenged with Aeromonas hydrophila. Small RNA libraries of the gills were constructed and sequenced on the Illumina HiSeq 2000 platform. A total of 1,165 differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs) were identified in gills, of which 539 known and 7 unknown DEMs were significantly screened (p < 0.05). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses revealed that the potential target genes/proteins were primarily involved in 33 immune-related pathways, in which the inflammatory responses were focused on the Toll-like receptor (TLR), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathways. Moreover, the expression levels of 14 key miRNAs (e.g., miR-10, miR-17, miR-26a, miR-144, miR-145, and miR-146a) and their target genes (e.g., TNFα, TLR4, NF-κB, TAB1, PI3K, and IRAK1) were verified. In addition, the protein levels based on isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) were significantly associated with the results of the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis (p < 0.01). miR-17/pre-miR-17 were identified in the regulation expression of the NF-κB target gene, and the phylogenetic tree analysis showed that the pre-miR-17 of C. auratus with the closest similarity to the zebrafish Danio rerio is highly conserved in teleosts. This is the first report of the multi-omics analysis of the miRNAs and proteins in the gills of C. auratus infected with A. hydrophila, thus enriching knowledge on the regulation mechanism of the local immune response in Cyprinidae fish.
BACKGROUND: Sarcopenia during aging is closely linked to sterile, low-grade, chronic inflammation. However, considering the increasingly aging global population, the effectiveness of existing treatments for sarcopenia is not exact, and acupuncture, as an effective anti-inflammatory therapy, has the potential to treat it.METHODS: Fifty Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly allocated into five groups, including Control group, D-galactose (D-gal) group, D-gal + acupuncture (DA) group, D-gal + non-acupoint (DN) group and D-gal amino acid mixture (DAA) group. An aging rat was model constructed using D-gal for 12 weeks. Rats in the control group received 0.9% physiological saline daily. Treatment groups were acupunctured or given amino acid mixture interventions daily, and lasted for last 4 consecutive weeks. The effects of acupuncture were evaluated by the hematoxylin and eosin staining (H&E), transmission electron microscopic (TEM) examination and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assays. The anti-inflammatory mechanism of acupuncture was studied by using the expressions of microRNA-146a (miR-146a) mediated nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathway-related proteins were detected by immunofluorescence, western blotting, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).RESULTS: Rats injected by D-galactose (D-gal) revealed apparent skeletal muscle atrophy with significantly reduced cross-sectional area and fiber diameter. In contrast, acupuncture treatment alleviated these hallmarks of skeletal muscle atrophy and mitigated the mitochondrial aberrations and skeletal muscle apoptosis in D-gal rats. In addition, acupuncture also downgraded the overexpression of inflammatory factors in skeletal muscle, influenced miR-146a and the target genes level, and inhibited NF-κB nuclear translation in D-gal rats.CONCLUSIONS: Acupuncture may ameliorate skeletal muscle atrophy, and its effects may be associated with the control of mitochondrial function regulation and the suppression of inflammation.
Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) is a disease that severely affects the physical health of children. Thus, we aimed to identify biomarkers associated with AML prognosis in children. Using transcriptomics on an mRNA dataset from 27 children with non-M3 AML, we selected genes from among those with the top 5000 median absolute deviation (MAD) values for subsequent analysis which showed that two modules were associated with AML risk groups. Thus, enrichment analysis was performed using genes from these modules. A one-way Cox analysis was performed on a dataset of 149 non-M3 AML patients downloaded from the TCGA. This identified four genes as significant: FTH1, RCC2, ABHD17B, and IRAK1. Through survival analysis, FTH1 was identified as a key gene associated with AML prognosis. We verified the proliferative and regulatory effects of ferroptosis on MOLM-13 and THP-1 cells using Liproxstatin-1 and Erastin respectively by CCK-8 and flow cytometry assays. Furthermore, we assayed expression levels of FTH1 in MOLM-13 and THP-1 cells after induction and inhibition of ferroptosis by real-time quantitative PCR, which showed that upregulated FTH1 expression promoted proliferation and inhibited apoptosis in leukemia cells. In conclusion, high expression of FTH1 promoted proliferation and inhibited apoptosis of leukemic cells through the ferroptosis pathway and is thus a potential risk factor that affects the prognosis of non-M3 AML in children.
Increasing evidence supports vanillin and its analogs as potent toll-like receptor signaling inhibitors that strongly attenuate inflammation, though, the underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive. Here, we report that vanillin inhibits lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced toll-like receptor 4 activation in macrophages by targeting the myeloid differentiation primary-response gene 88 (MyD88)-dependent pathway through direct interaction and suppression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) activity. Moreover, incubation of vanillin in cells expressing constitutively active forms of different toll-like receptor 4 signaling molecules revealed that vanillin could only able to block the ligand-independent constitutively activated IRAK4/1 or its upstream molecules-associated NF-κB activation and NF-κB transactivation along with the expression of various proinflammatory cytokines. A significant inhibition of LPS-induced IRAK4/MyD88, IRAK4/IRAK1, and IRAK1/TRAF6 association was evinced in response to vanillin treatment. Furthermore, mutations at Tyr262 and Asp329 residues in IRAK4 or modifications of 3-OMe and 4-OH side groups in vanillin, significantly reduced IRAK4 activity and vanillin function, respectively. Mice pretreated with vanillin followed by LPS challenge markedly impaired LPS-induced IRAK4 activation and inflammation in peritoneal macrophages. Thus, the present study posits vanillin as a novel and potent IRAK4 inhibitor and thus providing an opportunity for its therapeutic application in managing various inflammatory diseases.
BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the world and the deadliest of all cancers. Apoptosis is a key pathway in regulating the cell growth rate, proliferation, and occurrence of lung cancer. This process is controlled by many molecules, such as microRNAs and their target genes. Therefore, finding new medical approaches such as exploring diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers involved in apoptosis is needed for this disease. In the present study, we aimed to identify key microRNAs and their target genes that could be used in the prognosis and diagnosis of lung cancer.METHODS: Signaling pathways, genes, and microRNAs involved in the apoptotic pathway were identified by bioinformatics analysis and recent clinical studies. Bioinformatics analysis was performed on databases including NCBI, TargetScan, UALCAN, UCSC, KEGG, miRPathDB, and Enrichr, and clinical studies were extracted from PubMed, web of science, and SCOPUS databases.RESULTS: NF-κB, PI3K/AKT, and MAPK pathways play critical roles in the regulation of apoptosis. MiR-146b, 146a, 21, 23a, 135a, 30a, 202, and 181 were identified as the involved microRNAs in the apoptosis signaling pathway, and IRAK1, TRAF6, Bcl-2, PTEN, Akt, PIK3, KRAS, and MAPK1 were classified as the target genes of the mentioned microRNAs respectively. The essential roles of these signaling pathways and miRNAs/target genes were approved through both databases and clinical studies. Moreover, surviving, living, BRUCE, and XIAP was the main inhibitor of apoptosis which act by regulating the apoptosis-involved genes and miRNAs.CONCLUSION: Identifying the abnormal expression and regulation of miRNAs and signaling pathways in apoptosis of lung cancer can represent a novel class of biomarkers that can facilitate the early diagnosis, personalized treatment, and prediction of drug response for lung cancer patients. Therefore, studying the mechanisms of apoptosis including signaling pathways, miRNAs/target genes, and the inhibitors of apoptosis are advantageous for finding the most practical approach and reducing the pathological demonstrations of lung cancer.
Unhealable diabetic wounds need to be addressed with the help of newer, more efficacious strategies. Exosomes combined with biomaterials for sustained delivery of therapeutic agents are expected to bring new hope for chronic wound treatment. Here, the engineered exosomes modified for efficiently loading miR146a and attaching to silk fibroin patch (SFP) were demonstrated to promote diabetic wound healing. Silk fibroin binding peptide (SFBP) was screened through phage display, and SFBP-Gluc-MS2 (SGM) and pac-miR146a-pac fusion protein were constructed. The designed exosomes (SGM-Exos, miR146a-Exos, and SGM-miR146a-Exos) were isolated from the engineered placental mesenchymal stem cells (PMSCs) transduced with SGM or/and pac-miR146a-pac protein. Gluc signals indicated SGM-Exo@SFP markedly increased the binding rate and the stability of SGM-Exo. Moreover, the loading efficiency of miR146a in SGM-miR146a-Exos was ten-fold higher than that in miR146a-Exos. Superior to untreated, SGM-miR146a-Exo-only treated, and SFP-only treated groups, SGM-miR146a-Exo@SFP drived wound healing associated with less inflammation, collagen deposition, and neovascularization. The transcriptomics analysis suggested anti-inflammatory and regenerative effects with SGM-miR146a-Exo@SFP treatment. Here, we show efficient exosome@biomaterial-based miRNA delivery systems for regenerative medicine and tissue engineering.
Breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs) are responsible for tumour recurrence and therapy resistance. We have established primary BCSC cultures from human tumours of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), a subgroup of breast cancer likely driven by BCSCs. Primary BCSCs produce xenografts that phenocopy the tumours of origin, making them an ideal model for studying breast cancer treatment options. In the TNBC cell line MDA-MB-468, we previously screened kinases whose depletion elicited a differentiation response, among which IRAK2 was identified. Because primary BCSCs are enriched in IRAK2, we wondered whether IRAK2 downregulation might affect cellular growth. IRAK2 was downregulated in primary BCSCs and MDA-MB-468 by lentiviral delivery of shRNA, causing a decrease in cellular proliferation and sphere-forming capacity. When orthotopically transplanted into immunocompromised mice, IRAK2 knockdown cells produced smaller xenografts than control cells. At the molecular level, IRAK2 downregulation reduced NF-κB and ERK phosphorylation, IL-6 and cyclin D1 expression, ERN1 signalling and autophagy in a cell line-dependent way. Overall, IRAK2 downregulation decreased cellular aggressive growth and pathways often exploited by cancer cells to endure stress; therefore, IRAK2 may be considered an interesting target to compromise TNBC progression.
Pterygium and primary Sjögren's Syndrome (pSS) share many similarities in clinical symptoms and ocular pathophysiological changes, but their etiology is unclear. To identify the potential genes and pathways related to immunity, two published datasets, GSE2513 containing pterygium information and GSE176510 containing pSS information, were selected from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of pterygium or pSS patients compared with healthy control conjunctiva, and the common DEGs between them were analyzed. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis were conducted for common DEGs. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed using the STRING database to find the hub genes, which were verified in clinical samples. There were 14 co-upregulated DEGs. The GO and KEGG analyses showed that these common DEGs were enriched in pathways correlated with virus infection, antigen processing and presentation, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and Th17 cell differentiation. The hub genes (IL1R1, ICAM1, IRAK1, S100A9, and S100A8) were selected by PPI construction. In the era of the COVID-19 epidemic, the relationship between virus infection, vaccination, and the incidence of pSS and pterygium growth deserves more attention.
The activation of the NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome triggers pyroptosis proinflammatory cell death in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). However, the underlying mechanisms of the inflammatory processes of microglia in EAE remain unclear. Our previous studies suggested that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-M down-regulates the toll-like receptor 4/interleukin-1 receptor signaling pathway. Here, we used IRAK-M knockout (IRAK-M-/-) mice and their microglia to dissect the role of IRAK-M in EAE. We found that deletion of IRAK-M increased the incidence rate and exacerbated the clinical symptoms in EAE mice. We then found that IRAK-M deficiency promoted the activation of microglia, activated NLRP3 inflammasomes, and enhanced GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis in the microglia of EAE. In contrast, over-expression of IRAK-M exerted inhibitory effects on neuroinflammation, NLRP3 activation, and pyroptosis. Moreover, IRAK-M deficiency enhanced the phosphorylation of IRAK1, while IRAK-M over-expression downregulated the level of phosphorylated IRAK1. Finally, we found upregulated binding of IRAK1 and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) in IRAK-M-/- EAE mice compared to WT mice, which was blocked in AAVIRAK-M EAE mice. Our study reveals a complex signaling network of IRAK-M, which negatively regulates microglial NLRP3 inflammasomes and pyroptosis by inhibiting IRAK1 phosphorylation during EAE. These findings suggest a potential target for the novel therapeutic approaches of multiple sclerosis (MS)/EAE and NLRP3-related inflammatory diseases.
PURPOSE: An ongoing challenge in cancer is the management of primary and metastatic brain malignancies. This is partly due to restrictions of the blood-brain barrier and their unique microenvironment. These challenges are most evident in cancers such as lymphoma and melanoma, which are typically responsive to treatment in systemic locations but resistant when established in the brain. We propose interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-4 (IRAK-4) as a potential target across these diseases and describe the activity and mechanism of oral IRAK-4 inhibitor CA-4948.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Human primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) and melanoma brain metastases (MBM) samples were analyzed for expression of IRAK-4 and downstream transcription pathways. We next determined the central nervous system (CNS) applicability of CA-4948 in naïve and tumor-bearing mice using models of PCNSL and MBM. The mechanistic effect on tumors and the tumor microenvironment was then analyzed.RESULTS: Human PCNSL and MBM have high expression of IRAK-4, IRAK-1, and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB). This increase in inflammation results in reflexive inhibitory signaling. Similar profiles are observed in immunocompetent murine models. Treatment of tumor-bearing animals with CA-4948 results in the downregulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling in addition to decreased NF-κB. These intracellular changes are associated with a survival advantage.CONCLUSIONS: IRAK-4 is an attractive target in PCNSL and MBM. The inhibition of IRAK-4 with CA-4948 downregulates the expression of important transcription factors involved in tumor growth and proliferation. CA-4948 is currently being investigated in clinical trials for relapsed and refractory lymphoma and warrants further translation into PCNSL and MBM.
Panax notoginseng saponins (PNSs) have been found as the major active ingredient of Panax notoginseng (Burkill) F.H.Chen (PN) leaves, which has the effect of reducing inflammatory response, facilitating fibroblast proliferation, as well as promoting angiogenesis. This study aimed to investigate the molecular basis of PNS combined with bone mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) for treating diabetic cutaneous ulcers (DCU) and its mechanism of action.METHODS: A total of 75 SD rats were selected to make diabetic cutaneous ulcers model. According random number table method, the rats were randomly divided into a control group, a DCU group, a BMSCs group, a PNS group and BMSCs + PNS group. Five groups of rats were given without treatment. After being treated for 7 days, the rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital, and granulation tissue was collected from the central point of the wound. They were used for pathological analysis, Western blot (WB) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays.RESULTS: The wound healing area was the largest in the BMSCs + PNS group. HE staining results showed that the PNS + BMSCs group could promote the formation of new epidermis and reduce the infiltration of inflammatory cells. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) results showed that the PNS + BMSCs group could up-regulate the expression of Ki67 protein and cell proliferation. In addition, PNS combined with BMSCs up-regulated the expression of miR-146-5p and down-regulated the expression of IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α, IRAK1, TRAF6 and p65 in the NF-κB signaling pathway (p < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: PNS combined with bone mesenchymal stem cell transplantation up-regulated miR-146a-5p targeting and binding to IRAK1/TRAF6, inhibiting the activation of NF-κB pathway, which reduced the inflammatory response of DCU and facilitated the skin healing of DCU. Thus, this study provides a theoretical basis and a novel therapeutic option for the treatment of DFU with PNS combined with BMSCs.
OBJECTIVE: Here we aimed to investigate the association of the Xq28 risk haplotype (H1) with susceptibility to childhood-onset systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and to compare its frequency and genetic structure in the Mexican population with those in other continental populations.METHODS: We genotyped 15 single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) that form the H1 haplotype, using TaqMan real-time PCR. The association analysis [case-control and transmission disequilibrium test (TDT)] included 376 cases and 400 adult controls, all of whom were mestizos (MEZ). To identify risk alleles in Mexican Indigenous individuals, SNVs were imputed from whole-exome sequencing data of 1,074 individuals. The allelic frequencies determined in MEZ and Indigenous individuals were compared with those of the continental populations from the 1,000 Genomes database phase 3. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis of risk alleles was performed on all populations. Interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MECP2) mRNA levels were determined using real-time PCR.RESULTS: Case-control analysis revealed genetic association with childhood-onset SLE for all 15 SNVs (OR = 1.49-1.75; p = 0.0095 to 1.81 × 10-4) and for the Xq28 risk haplotype (OR = 1.97, p = 4 × 10-6). Comparing with individuals of European ancestry (0.14-0.16), the frequencies of the risk alleles were significantly higher in the MEZ individuals (0.55-0.68) and even higher in Indigenous individuals (0.57-0.83). LD analysis indicated a differential haplotype structure within the Indigenous groups, which was inherited to the MEZ population as a result of genetic admixture. Individuals homozygous for the Xq28 risk haplotype exhibited decreased levels of both MECP2A and B transcripts.CONCLUSION: We found that the H1 risk haplotype differs in its conformation in the Mexican population. This difference could be attributed to positive selection within the Indigenous population, with its inheritance now having an autoimmune health impact in both the Mexican Indigenous and MEZ populations.
PM2.5 is an important environmental problem threatening human health at present, which poses serious harm to human body after inhalation. J. cannabifolia is a traditional Chinese medicine which exhibits anti-inflammatory effect. This study aimed to investigate the inhibitory effect of main phenolic acid components of J. cannabifolia on inflammation caused by PM2.5. Effect of PM2.5 on cell activity and apoptosis were determined by MTT, flow cytometry and calcein AM/PI staining. PHBA, PHPAA, and mixture of PHBA and PHPAA of different concentrations were given to RAW264.7 cells pretreated with PM2.5. The effect of drugs on cellular inflammatory factors was detected by ELISA. The expressions of TLRs related signal pathway at protein and gene levels were detected by western blot and qRT-PCR. The results showed that PM2.5 had no effect on cell activity and apoptosis within the determined concentration range. PHBA and PHPAA could markly inhibit the level of IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α in RAW264.7 cells. Furthermore, the expressions of TLR2, TLR4, MyD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1, IKKβ, and NF-κB induced by PM2.5 were markedly inhibited by PHBA and PHPAA at protein and gene levels. This study demonstrated that PHBA and PHPAA could attenuated inflammation caused by PM2.5 through suppressing TLRs related signal pathway.
BACKGROUND: Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) affects the outcomes of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). NSCLC cells released exosomes to suppress the antitumor activity of TAMs. MiR-146a is a critical regulator in TAM polarization. We hypothesized that NSCLC cells released exosomal miR-146a to regulate TAM polarization and thus affected its antitumor activity.METHODS: We used H1299 cells-derived exosomes to stimulate THP-1 cells that was pretreated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (M0 macrophage). Flow cytometry and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were used to determine the polarization of macrophages. The conditioned medium of exosome-treated M0 cells was used to culture H1299 cells, and the Cell Counting Kit-8, Ki67, transwell and scratch wound assays were used to determine the biological behavior of H1299 cells. To investigate whether exosomal miR-146a regulates TAM macrophages through targeting tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF-6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1), we used small interfering RNA to knockdown the expressions of them.RESULTS: Upregulation of miR-146a inhibited M1 polarization and thus impaired the antitumor activity of TAMs. Exosomes released by H1299 cells can be taken by M0 macrophage, and they upregulated the expression of miR-146a in M0 macrophage. The exosome suppresses M1 polarization by exosomal miR-146a. TRAF-6 and IRAK-1 mediated the inhibitive effects of exosomal miR-146a on M1 polarization.CONCLUSIONS: NSCLC cells released exosomal miR-146a to inhibit the expressions of TRAF-6 and IRAK-1 in TAMs, resulting in the impaired antitumor activity of TAMs. NSCLC cell-derived exosomal miR-146a represents a novel therapeutic target for NSCLC treatment.
Myelofibrosis is a rare progressive cancer of the bone marrow that disrupts the normal production of healthy blood cells, leading to bone marrow failure. Patients with myelofibrosis and severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count below 50 × 109/L) have a wide range of unmet medical needs compared with those without thrombocytopenia. Usually, these patients have an increased disease burden, increased transfusion dependence, shorter overall survival, and limited treatment options. Pacritinib is a new oral kinase inhibitor specifically targeting Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) and colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF-1R), and is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderate or high risk of primary or secondary myelofibrosis (post-polycythemia or post-primary thrombocytopenia) whose platelet count is less than 50 × 109/L. In this review, we introduce pacritinib and make a brief comparison of different JAK inhibitors in clinical application.
BACKGROUND: Air pollution has led to an increased exposure of all living organisms to fine dust. Therefore, research efforts are being made to devise preventive and therapeutic remedies against fine dust-induced chronic diseases.METHODS: Research of the respiratory protective effects of KRG extract in a particulate matter (PM; aerodynamic diameter of <4 μm) plus diesel exhaust particle (DEP) (PM4+D)-induced airway inflammation model. Nitric oxide production, expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and cytokines, and IRAK-1, TAK-1, and MAPK pathways were examined in PM4-stimulated MH-S cells. BALB/c mice exposed to PM4+D mixture by intranasal tracheal injection three times a day for 12 days at 3 day intervals and KRGE were administered orally for 12 days. Histological of lung and trachea, and immune cell subtype analyses were performed. Expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and cytokines in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and lung were measured. Immunohistofluorescence staining for IRAK-1 localization in lung were also evaluated.RESULTS: KRGE inhibited the production of nitric oxide, the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and cytokines, and expression and phosphorylation of all downstream factors of NF-κB, including IRAK-1 and MAPK/AP1 pathway in PM4-stimulated MH-S cells. KRGE suppressed inflammatory cell infiltration and number of immune cells, histopathologic damage, and inflammatory symptoms in the BALF and lungs induced by PM4+D; these included increased alveolar wall thickness, accumulation of collagen fibers, and TNF-α, MIP2, CXCL-1, IL-1α, and IL-17 cytokine release. Moreover, PM4 participates induce alveolar macrophage death and interleukin-1α release by associating with IRAK-1 localization was also potently inhibited by KRGE in the lungs of PM4+D-induced airway inflammation model. KRGE suppresses airway inflammatory responses, including granulocyte infiltration into the airway, by regulating the expression of chemokines and inflammatory cytokines via inhibition of IRAK-1 and MAPK pathway. Conclusion: Our results indicate the potential of KRGE to serve as an effective therapeutic agent against airway inflammation and respiratory diseases.
Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) in the Coronavirus family is a highly contagious enteric pathogen in the swine industry, which has evolved mechanisms to evade host innate immune responses. The PEDV-mediated inhibition of interferons (IFNs) has been linked to the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) pathway. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in virus-host interactions and IFN-I regulation. However, the mechanism by which the PEDV regulates IFN during PEDV infection has not yet been investigated in its natural target cells. We here report a novel mechanism of viral immune escape involving miR-615, which was screened from a high-throughput sequencing library of porcine intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) infected with PEDV. PEDV infection altered the profiles of miRNAs and the activities of several pathways involved in innate immunity. Overexpression of miR-615 increased PEDV replication, inhibited IFN expression, downregulated the NF-κB pathway, and blocked p65 nuclear translocation. In contrast, knockdown of miR-615 enhanced IFN expression, suppressed PEDV replication, and activated the NF-κB pathway. We further determined that IRAK1 is the target gene of miR-615 in IECs. Our findings show that miR-615 suppresses activation of the NF-κB pathway by suppressing the IRAK1 protein and reducing the generation of IFN-IIIs, which in turn facilitates PEDV infection in IECs. Moreover, miR-615 inhibited PEDV replication and NF-κB pathway activation in both IECs and MARC-145 cells. These findings support an important role for miR-615 in the innate immune regulation of PEDV infections and provide a novel perspective for developing new treatments.
Orento is a traditional Japanese medicinal kampo preparation that is also prescribed in oral care. In oral squamous cell carcinoma cell line CAL27, orento significantly inhibited periodontopathogenic bacterium Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and lipoproteins (PAMP)-stimulated production of interleukin (IL)-6. This suggests that orento negatively regulates PAMP-mediated toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling. Orento significantly suppressed PAMP-stimulated activation of the IL-6 promoter, indicating that orento may suppress the production of IL-6 by PAMP at the transcriptional level. Orento also suppressed TLR-mediated activation of transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB) that was stimulated by PAMP. This finding indicates that orento may suppress the function and activation of factors involved in TLR signaling, thereby suppressing NF-kB-dependent expression of various genes. Orento suppressed IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK4), IRAK1, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation in PAMP-stimulated CAL27 cells. This result indicates that orento is involved in the initiation of TLR signaling by PAMP and suppresses the downstream signaling pathways of myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88) such as mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and NF-kB cascades. These findings suggest that orento has an inhibitory effect on the production of inflammatory cytokines.
It is common knowledge that the crosstalk of gut microbiota (GM) and dendritic cells (DCs) are critical for the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). As a major bioactive constituent derived from the root of the Sophora flavescens, Oxymatrine (OMT) was used to treat IBD in China. However, it is still unknown whether OMT ameliorates IBD by regulating the crosstalk between DCs and GM. In the present study, after 10 days of OMT (100 mg/kg/day) treated mice with colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS), the change rate of body weight, colon weight, colon weight index, colon length, DAI score and colonic pathological damage scores of colitis mice were significantly ameliorate, followed with fewer ulceration and inflammatory cell infiltration, the increased expression of IL-4 and IL-13, and the decreased expression of CCL-2, IL-33 and IFN-γ. The percents of inflammatory DCs (such as TNF-α+DCs, iNOS+DCs, CXCR5+DCs and E-cadherin+DCs) were markedly decreased, and the GM composition was regulated. Importantly, it is positive correlated between the efficacy of OMT on colitis, GM and inflammatory DCs. Meanwhile, Western blotting assay showed that OMT suppressed the activation of TLR4, Myd88, IRAK4, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1, TAB, MKK3, MKK6, P38, NF-κB in the TLR / NF-κB signaling pathway. In summary, OMT exhibits the protective effect against the DSS-induced experimental colitis, which was achieved by regulating the crosstalk of inflammatory DCs and GM, and inhibiting the TLR / NF-κB signaling pathway.
To investigate developmental changes in immunity and different responses to weaning stress of piglets from different breeds during suckling and weaning periods, a total of 30 litters of Taoyuan black (TB) piglets, Xiangcun black (XB) piglets, and Duroc (DR) piglets (ten litters per breed) were selected at 1, 10, 21, and 24 days of age, respectively. The results showed that the liver index of TB piglets was higher at 10 days of age than that of the other days of age and breeds. Regardless of the days of age, TB and XB piglets had a higher plasma IgA level and lower ileal IgM level than in the DR piglets, and XB piglets had a lower plasma IgG level than the other breeds. TB and XB piglets had a higher IL-6 level and lower IL-17 level in plasma at 24 days of age than DR piglets, regardless of the days of age. The ileal levels of IL-2, IL-10, IFN-γ, and TNF-α were lower in the TB and XB piglets at 24 days of age than in the DR piglets. The ileal expression levels of IRAK1, CD14, MyD88, and NF-κB were down-regulated in the TB and XB piglets at 24 days of age compared to those in the DR piglets. These findings suggest that there were differences in the development of immune function among different pig breeds. Moreover, TB and XB piglets presented stronger resistance to weaning stress than the DR piglets, which may be related to the immune regulation mediated by the MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway.
Steroid receptor RNA activator gene (SRA1) emerges as a player in pathophysiological responses of adipose tissue (AT) in metabolic disorders such as obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2D). We previously showed association of the AT SRA1 expression with inflammatory cytokines/chemokines involved in metabolic derangement. However, the relationship between altered adipose expression of SRA1 and the innate immune Toll-like receptors (TLRs) as players in nutrient sensing and metabolic inflammation as well as their downstream signaling partners, including interferon regulatory factors (IRFs), remains elusive. Herein, we investigated the association of AT SRA1 expression with TLRs, IRFs, and other TLR-downstream signaling mediators in a cohort of 108 individuals, classified based on their body mass index (BMI) as persons with normal-weight (N = 12), overweight (N = 32), and obesity (N = 64), including 55 with and 53 without T2D. The gene expression of SRA1, TLRs-2,3,4,7,8,9,10 and their downstream signaling mediators including IRFs-3,4,5, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) were determined using qRT-PCR and SRA1 protein expression was determined by immunohistochemistry. AT SRA1 transcripts' expression was significantly correlated with TLRs-3,4,7, MyD88, NF-κB, and IRF5 expression in individuals with T2D, while it associated with TLR9 and TRAF6 expression in all individuals, with/without T2D. SRA1 expression associated with TLR2, IRAK1, and IRF3 expression only in individuals with obesity, regardless of diabetes status. Furthermore, TLR3/TLR7/IRAK1 and TLR3/TLR9 were identified as independent predictors of AT SRA1 expression in individuals with obesity and T2D, respectively. Overall, our data demonstrate a direct association between the AT SRA1 expression and the TLRs together with their downstream signaling partners and IRFs in individuals with obesity and/or T2D.
Combination of docetaxel, cisplatin and 5-FU, known as TPF, is an FDA-approved treatment for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Acquired chemo-resistance to TPF, a primary reason for non-responsiveness to the treatment and relapse of tumor is a major concern for treatment failure, especially in elder patients. In this study, we investigated the role of Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAK) mediated Toll-like receptor (TLR)-signaling in chemo-resistance using a cell line-based in-vitro TPF-resistant HNSCC model of laryngeal origin. TPF chemo-resistant state showed over-expression and phosphorylation of the active downstream kinases IRAK-1 and IRAK-4 along with enhanced proliferative potential, survival, stemness and metastatic capability as compared to the parent cell line. Pharmacological inhibition of IRAK-1 and -4 had a cytostatic effect on chemo-resistant cells and re-sensitized them to chemotherapy. The treatment also decreased the pro-oncogenic effects of the chemo-resistant cells. Our study provides insights into the pro-oncogenic role of amplified IRAK-1 and-4 mediated TLR signaling in TPF-resistant HNSCC. Pharmacological inhibition of IRAK-1 and-4 signaling is a promising therapeutic strategy for TPF-resistant HNSCC. It can also be used as a combination therapy or a chemo-drug sparing regimen in HNSCC.
BACKGROUND: In the U.S., African Americans (AAs) present with the highest incidence and mortality rates for Colorectal Cancer (CRC). When compared to Caucasian American (CA) patients, AAs also have reduced response to the first line standard of care chemotherapeutic agent 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU). Previously, we observed differential gene expression between the two populations, suggesting that colon tumors from AA patients display a decreased antitumor immune response and an increased expression of genes encoding proteins involved in inflammatory processes, such as Interleukin-1β (IL-1β). Here, we investigate the role of IL-1β in modifying chemotherapeutic response and altering expression of proteins in novel AA and well-established CA colon cancer cell lines.METHODS: RNA sequencing analysis was performed to detect expression of genes involved in inflammation in AA and CA colon cancer cells. The effects of IL-1β on 5-FU response was evaluated by assessing cell viability (MTS assay) and apoptosis (flow cytometry analysis) following treatment with 5-FU alone or in combination with the cytokine. Further, we used an IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra) to inhibit IL-1β-induced effects on 5-FU sensitivity and NF-kB pathway activation.RESULTS: AA colon cancer cell lines present significant increase in expression of genes IL1R2 (373-fold change (FC), IRAK1 (3.24 FC), IKBKB, (5.33 FC) NF-KB IA (5.95 FC), MYD88, (3.72 FC), IRAK3 (161 FC), TRAF5 (4.1 FC). A significant decrease in the response to 5-FU treatment, as well as a significant increase in phosphorylation of IκBα and secretion of IL-8, was seen following IL-1β treatment, in both AA and CA cell lines. Finally, treatment with IL-1Ra was able to reverse the effects induced by IL-1β, by increasing the cells sensitivity to 5-FU. IL-1Ra also inhibited phosphorylation of IκBα and IL-8 secretion.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest a differential expression of inflammatory genes and proteins that might regulate the different response to IL-1β between AA and CA colon cancer cell lines. Our data also demonstrates that IL-1β is involved in modulating 5-FU response in both AA and CA colon cancer cell lines. Further investigation of these mechanisms might help elucidate the differences seen in incidence, mortality and response to therapy in AA colon cancer patients.
Constipation commonly occurs during childhood, and more than 95% of cases are classified as functional constipation. If not effectively treated, 20% of patients with childhood constipation can continue to exhibit symptoms into adulthood, which seriously affects their mental health and quality of life. The main feature of acupuncture or acupoint stimulation, a special branch of traditional Chinese medicine, is the selection of different acupoints for different diseases, and many worthy guidelines have been established for matching acupoints. The back-shu and front-mu point combination adheres to an important acupoint compatibility law that has been used since its proposal 2,500 years ago but has not yet been verified by the modern evidence-based experiments. This study focused on the back-shu and front-mu point combination using the Dachangshu (BL25) and Tianshu (ST25) points as examples to explore possible research methods for network acupoint-based stimulation based on existing evidence and to elucidate the mechanisms induced by BL25 and ST25 in the treatment of functional constipation in children (FCC). The study found that BL25 and ST25 have 20 common targets, namely, AQP8, DRD2, VIP, TAC1, IL6R, TNF, FOS, KIT, CHAT, HTR3A, GAS8, SOD3, TRPV1, MPO, CALCA, IL1B, P2RX7, NPY2R, IL10RA, and TPH1, and these targets may provide a strategy for the combined usage of BL25 and ST25. In addition, BL25 and ST25 can affect FCC treatment through inflammation-relatedTh17-cell differentiation, the NF-kappa B signaling pathway, and the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway. Adipocytokines or leptin may also comprise the mechanism through which BL25 and ST25 regulate FCC. In addition, BL25 and ST25 regulate FCC through 13 core targets, namely, NFKBIA, RELA, TNF, IKBKB, IRAK1, TLR4, MYD88, TNFRSF1A, IL1R1, TLR2, IL1B, TRAF6, and TNFRSF1B. In short, this study provides new ideas and methods for studying the mechanism of acupuncture points.
This study investigated the anti-arthritic potential of novel mannich-based derivatives of 2-mercaptobenzimidazole (AK7 and AK9) in rats. The compounds were characterized by NMR and FTIR spectroscopies and their acute anti-inflammatory effects were measured by carrageenan (CRG)-induced paw edema model. The most potent doses of AK7 and AK9 were subsequently evaluated in the complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammatory arthritis model. AK7 and AK9 inhibited CRG-induced inflammation in a dose-dependent fashion and a similar reduction in CFA-induced paw inflammation was observed. Moreover, X-ray and histopathological analyses of AK7-treated animals displayed normal joint structure whereas AK9, despite of its anti-inflammatory effects, failed to protect against cartilage destruction. Interestingly, biochemical analysis revealed a better safety profile for AK7 than for AK9 and methotrexate. Both compounds suppressed mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory mediators (IRAK1, NF-κB1, TNF-α, IL1B) while only AK7 reduced the transcript levels of interstitial collagenase (MMP1). Molecular docking analysis of AK7 and AK9 with TNF-α and MMP1 also supported the experimental data. These findings clearly highlight the beneficial effects of AK7 in the prevention and/or treatment of inflammatory arthritis.
As a serotonin antagonist, tropisetron positively affects blood glucose lowering, insulin synthesis, pancreas inflammation, and apoptosis in diabetes. Reproductive disorders are one of the diabetes-induced chronic complications. The present study aimed to evaluate the effect of tropisetron on diabetes-induced testicular inflammation, its signaling pathway, and mir146a. To this end, animals were assigned to the control, tropisetron, diabetes (DM), DM-tropisetron, and DM-glibenclamide groups. Streptozotocin (50 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally injected to provide diabetes. Tropisetron and glibenclamide were then administrated intraperitoneally for 2 weeks after diabetes induction. Testes histology, real-time polymerase chain reaction, western blot analysis, ELISA, and immunohistochemistry assays were also performed. The finding revealed that tropisetron significantly improved diabetes-induced testis damages, lowered TLR4, TRAF6, IRAK1, NF-κB, and caspase3 protein expressions, and decreased TNF-α and IL-1 levels. Moreover, the mir146a expression declined following the tropisetron treatment. This study demonstrated that the significant role of tropisetron in lowering testicular inflammation and apoptosis might have been due to the inhibition of the TLR4/IRAK1/TRAF6 signaling pathway and thereby the attenuation of NF-κB and caspase3 expression and inflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, the downregulation of mir146a, as an inflammatory microRNA interacting with TLR4, showed another pathway, through which tropisetron improved diabetes-induced testicular injuries.
Autoimmune hypophysitis (AH) is an autoimmune disease of the pituitary for which the pathogenesis is incompletely known. AH is often treated with corticosteroids; however, steroids may lead to considerable side effects. Using a mouse model of AH (experimental autoimmune hypophysitis, EAH), we show that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is upregulated in the pituitaries of mice that developed EAH. We identified rosoxacin as a specific inhibitor for IRAK1 and found it could treat EAH. Rosoxacin treatment at an early stage (day 0-13) slightly reduced disease severity, whereas treatment at a later stage (day 14-27) significantly suppressed EAH. Further investigation indicated rosoxacin reduced production of autoantigen-specific antibodies. Rosoxacin downregulated production of cytokines and chemokines that may dampen T cell differentiation or recruitment to the pituitary. Finally, rosoxacin downregulated class II major histocompatibility complex expression on antigen-presenting cells that may lead to impaired activation of autoantigen-specific T cells. These data suggest that IRAK1 may play a pathogenic role in AH and that rosoxacin may be an effective drug for AH and other inflammatory diseases involving IRAK1 dysregulation.
As an important proinflammation and immunomodulatory cytokine, IL-18 has been reported in several species of fish, but its receptor subunits, IL-18Rα and IL-18Rβ, and its decoy receptor, IL-18BP, have not been functionally characterized in fish. In the present study, IL-18Rα, IL-18Rβ and IL-18BP were cloned from rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss, and they possess common conserved domains with their mammalian orthologues. In tested organs/tissues, IL-18Rα and IL-18Rβ exhibit basal expression levels, and IL-18BP has a pattern of constitutive expression. When transfected with diﬀerent combinations of chimeric receptors in HEK293T cells, recombinant IL-18 (rIL-18) can induce the activation of NF-κB only when pcDNA3.1-IL-18Rα/IL-1R1 and pcDNA3.1-IL-18Rβ/IL-1RAP were both expressed. On the other hand, recombinant receptors, including rIL-18BP, rIL-18Rα-ECD-Fc and rIL-18Rβ-ECD-Fc can down-regulate significantly the activity of NF-κB, suggesting the participation of IL-18Rα, IL-18Rβ and IL-18BP in rainbow trout IL-18 signal transduction. Co-IP assays indicated that IL-18Rβ may form a complex with MyD88, IRAK4, IRAK1, TRAF6 and TAB2 in HEK293T cells, indicating that IL-18Rβ, in IL-18 signalling pathway, is associated with these signalling molecules. In conclusion, IL-18Rα, IL-18Rβ and IL-18BP in rainbow trout are conserved in function and signalling pathway with their mammalian orthologues.
IMPORTANCE: The morbidity and mortality associated with COVID-19 remain high despite advances in standard of care therapy, and the role of anti-inflammatory agents that inhibit the interleukin 6/JAK2 pathway is still being elucidated.OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of the oral JAK2/IRAK1 inhibitor pacritinib vs placebo in the treatment of adults with severe COVID-19.DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This phase 2, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial enrolled hospitalized adult patients with severe COVID-19 at 21 centers across the US between June 2020 and February 2021, with approximately 1.5 months of safety follow-up per patient. Data analysis was performed from September 2021 to July 2022.INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomized 1:1 to standard of care plus pacritinib (400 mg per os on day 1 followed by 200 mg twice daily on days 2-14) vs placebo, for 14 days.MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary end point was death or need for invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) by day 28. All-cause mortality and safety were also assessed.RESULTS: A total of 200 patients were randomized to pacritinib (99 patients; 56 men [56.6%]; median [range] age, 60 [19-87] years) or placebo (101 patients; 64 men [63.4%]; median [range] age 59 [28-94] years). The percentage requiring supplementary oxygen was 99.0% (98 patients) in the pacritinib group vs 98.0% (99 patients) in the placebo group. The percentage who progressed to IMV, ECMO, or death was 17.2% (17 patients) in the pacritinib group vs 22.8% (23 patients) in the placebo group (odds ratio, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.28-1.35; P = .23). Among patients with elevated interleukin 6, the rate was 17.5% (11 of 63 patients) in the pacritinib group vs 30.4% (21 of 96 patients) in the placebo group. The adverse event rate was similar for pacritinib vs placebo (78.1% [75 patients] vs 80.2% [81 patients]), with no excess in infection (14.6% [14 patients] vs 19.8% [20 patients]), bleeding (8.3% [8 patients] vs 10.9% [11 patients]), or thrombosis (8.3% [8 patients] vs 7.9% [8 patients]). Rates of grade 3 or higher adverse events were lower with pacritinib than placebo (29.2% [28 patients] vs 40.6% [41 patients]).CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The study did not meet its primary end point in patients with severe COVID-19. Subgroup analyses may indicate specific populations with hyperinflammation that could benefit from pacritinib, although further clinical trials would be needed to confirm these effects.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04404361.
The safety profile of the novel oral JAK2/IRAK1 inhibitor pacritinib in patients with cytopenic myelofibrosis was described in the Phase 2 PAC203 and Phase 3 PERSIST-2 studies. To account for longer treatment durations on the pacritinib arms compared to best available therapy (BAT), we present a risk-adjusted safety analysis of event rates accounting for different time on treatment. While the rate of overall events was higher on pacritinib compared to BAT, the rate of fatal events was lower, and there was no excess in bleeding, cardiac events, secondary malignancy, or thrombosis on pacritinib, including in patients with severe thrombocytopenia.
Interleukin-1receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) plays a critical role in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). It was reported that SLE was associated with an inflammatory response mediated by defective immune tolerance, including overproduction of autoantibodies, chronic inflammation, and organ damage. Previous reports stated paeoniflorin (PF) had an immunosuppressive effect. The purpose of this study was to determine the anti-inflammatory effect of PF in SLE and its underlying mechanisms. Followed by induced with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the splenocytes and the isolated CD4+ T lymphocytes of MRL/lpr mice were divided into three groups: control group, LPS group, and LPS + PF group, respectively. MRL/MP mice were used as the control group (treated with distilled water). The MRL/lpr mice were randomly divided into three groups: the model group (treated with distilled water), the prednisone group, and the PF group. The MRL/lpr mice were treated with prednisone acetate (5 mg/kg) and PF (25, 50, and 75 mg/kg) for eight weeks. Subsequently, ELISA, qRT-PCR, western blotting, HE, and Masson staining were performed to detect various indicators. The results of Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) showed that 10 μg/mL of LPS had the optimum effect on cell viability, and 50 μmol/L of PF had no obvious cytotoxicity to LPS-treated cells. PF reduced the expression level of IRAK1-nuclearfactor-κB (NF-κB) and its downstream inflammatory cytokines in the splenocytes and CD4+ T lymphocytes of MRL/lpr mice stimulated by LPS, especially in the latter. The serum antibody contents in the PF group mice were reduced, and the kidney damage was also alleviated accordingly. Moreover, the IRAK1/inhibitor of the nuclear factor-κB kinase (IKK)/NF-κB inhibitor (IκB)/NF-κB pathways was found to be involved in the anti-inflammation effect of PF in the kidney and spleen. In conclusion, it is thought that PF may have the potential to be used as a therapeutic agent to reduce the inflammatory activity of SLE. Inhibition of the IRAK1-NF-κB pathway may help formulate novel therapeutic tactics for SLE.
Erratum for    Haematologica. 2021 Oct 01;106(10):2749-2753.
This study aimed to explore clinical significance of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) in the diagnosis, prognosis, and targeted therapy of hepatocellular carcinoma. A systematic analysis based on the cancer genome atlas (TCGA) indicated that IRAK1 was highly expressed in 18 cancer types (p < 0.01) and may be a pan-cancer biomarker. In hepatocellular carcinoma, the alteration rate of IRAK1 was rather high (62.4%), in which mRNA high relative to normal predominated (58.9%). Higher expression was associated with shorter overall survival (p < 0.01). IRAK1 expression correlated positively with pathology stage and tumor grade (for the latter there was only a slight trend). Interestingly, it correlated positively with TP53 mutation (p < 0.001), suggesting a possible strategy for targeting TP53 via IRAK1. Immunohistochemistry experiments confirmed a higher positive rate of IRAK1 in carcinoma than in para-carcinoma tissues (χ2 = 18.006, p < 0.001). Higher tumor grade correlated with more strongly positive staining. Molecular docking revealed cryptotanshinone, matrine, and harmine as the best hit compounds with inhibition potential for IRAK1. Our findings suggest that IRAK1 may play biologically predictive roles in hepatocellular carcinoma. The suppression of IRAK1/NF-κB signaling via inhibition of IRAK1 by the hit compounds can be a potential strategy for the targeted therapy.
Erratum for    Front Immunol. 2022 Aug 26;13:978315.
PURPOSE: Besides their developmental and neurological phenotype, most patients with MECP2/IRAK1 duplication syndrome present with recurrent and severe infections, accompanied by strong inflammation. Respiratory infections are the most common cause of death. Standardized pneumological diagnostics, targeted anti-infectious treatment, and knowledge of the underlying pathomechanism that triggers strong inflammation are unmet clinical needs. We investigated the influence of IRAK1 overexpression on the canonical NF-κB signaling as a possible cause for excessive inflammation in these patients.METHODS: NF-κB signaling was examined by measuring the production of proinflammatory cytokines and evaluating the IRAK1 phosphorylation and degradation as well as the IκBα degradation upon stimulation with IL-1β and TLR agonists in SV40-immortalized fibroblasts, PBMCs, and whole blood of 9 patients with MECP2/IRAK1 duplication syndrome, respectively.RESULTS: Both, MECP2/IRAK1-duplicated patients and healthy controls, showed similar production of IL-6 and IL-8 upon activation with IL-1β and TLR2/6 agonists in immortalized fibroblasts. In PBMCs and whole blood, both patients and controls had a similar response of cytokine production after stimulation with IL-1β and TLR4/2/6 agonists. Patients and controls had equivalent patterns of IRAK1 phosphorylation and degradation as well as IκBα degradation upon stimulation with IL-1β.CONCLUSION: Patients with MECP2/IRAK1 duplication syndrome do not show increased canonical NF-κB signaling in immortalized fibroblasts, PBMCs, and whole blood. Therefore, we assume that these patients do not benefit from a therapeutic suppression of this pathway.
In order to alleviate the toxic effects of aflatoxins B1 (AFB1) on inflammatory responses in the intestine, liver, and kidney of broilers, the aflatoxin B1-degrading enzyme, montmorillonite, and compound probiotics were selected and combined to make a triple-action compound mycotoxin detoxifier (CMD). The feeding experiment was divided into two stages. In the early feeding stage (1−21 day), a total of 200 one-day-old Ross broilers were randomly divided into four groups; in the later feeding stage (22−42 day), 160 broilers aged at 22 days were assigned to four groups: Group A: basal diet (4.31 μg/kg AFB1); Group B: basal diet with 40 μg/kg AFB1; Group C: Group A plus 1.5 g/kg CMD; Group D: Group B plus 1.5 g/kg CMD. After the feeding experiment, the intestine, liver, and kidney tissues of the broilers were selected to investigate the molecular mechanism for CMD to alleviate the tissue damages. Analyses of mRNA abundances and western blotting (WB) of inflammatory factors, as well as immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of intestine, liver, and kidney tissues showed that AFB1 aggravated the inflammatory responses through NF-κB and TN-α signaling pathways via TLR pattern receptors, while the addition of CMD significantly inhibited the inflammatory responses. Phylogenetic investigation showed that AFB1 significantly increased interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK-1) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activities (p < 0.05), which were restored to normal levels by CMD addition, indicating that CMD could alleviate cell inflammatory damages induced by AFB1.
Matriptases are cell surface proteolytic enzymes belonging to the type II transmembrane serine protease family that mediate inflammatory skin disorders and cancer progression. Matriptases may affect the development of periodontitis via protease-activated receptor-2 activity. However, the cellular mechanism by which matriptases are involved in periodontitis is unknown. In this study, we examined the antiperiodontitis effects of matriptase on Porphyromonas gingivalis-derived lipopolysaccharide (PG-LPS)-stimulated human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs). Matriptase small interfering RNA-transfected HGFs were treated with PG-LPS. The mRNA and protein levels of proinflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP-1) were evaluated using the quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. Western blot analyses were performed to measure the levels of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)/transforming growth factor β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), p65, and p50 in PG-LPS-stimulated HGFs. Matriptase downregulation inhibited LPS-induced proinflammatory cytokine expression, including the expression of IL-6, IL-8, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and IL-Iβ. Moreover, matriptase downregulation inhibited PG-LPS-stimulated MMP-1 expression. Additionally, we confirmed that the mechanism underlying the effects of matriptase downregulation involves the suppression of PG-LPS-induced IRAK1/TAK1 and NF-κB. These results suggest that downregulation of matriptase PG-LPS-induced MMP-1 and proinflammatory cytokine expression via TLR4-mediated IRAK1/TAK1 and NF-κB signaling pathways in HGFs.
Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is the most severe form of coronary heart disease caused by ischemia and hypoxia. The study is aimed at investigating the role of neuropeptides and the mechanism of electroacupuncture (EA) in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) treatment. Compared with the normal population, a significant increase in substance P (SP) was observed in the serum of patients with AMI. PGI2 expression was increased in the SP-treated AMI mouse model, and TXA2 expression was decreased. And PI3K pathway-related genes, including Pik3ca, Akt, and Mtor, were upregulated in myocardial tissue of SP-treated AMI patients. Human cardiomyocyte cell lines (HCM) treated with SP increased mRNA and protein expression of PI3K pathway-related genes (Pik3ca, Pik3cb, Akt, and Mtor). Compared to MI control and EA-treated MI rat models, Myd88, MTOR, Akt1, Sp, and Irak1 were differentially expressed, consistent with in vivo and in vitro studies. EA treatment significantly enriched PI3K/AKT signaling pathway genes within MI-associated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) according to Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Furthermore, it was confirmed by molecular docking analysis that PIK3CA, AKT1, and mTOR form stable dockings with neuropeptide SP. PI3K/AKT pathway activity may be affected directly or indirectly by EA via SP, which corrects the PGI2/TXA2 metabolic imbalance in AMI. MI treatment is now better understood as a result of this finding.
Breast cancer bone metastasis is currently incurable. Evidence suggests that inhibiting IL-1 signalling with the IL1R antagonist, Anakinra, or the IL1β antibody, Canakinumab, prevents metastasis and almost eliminates breast cancer growth in the bone. However, these drugs increase primary tumour growth. We, therefore, investigated whether targeting other members of the IL-1 pathway (Caspase-1, IL1β or IRAK1) could reduce bone metastases without increasing tumour growth outside of the bone. Inhibition of IL-1 via MLX01 (IL1β secretion inhibitor), VRT043198/VX765 (Caspase-1 inhibitor), Pacritinib (IRAK1 inhibitor) or Anakinra (IL1R antagonist) on tumour cell viability, migration and invasion were assessed in mouse mammary E0771 and Py8119 cells in vitro and on primary tumour growth, spontaneous metastasis and metastatic outgrowth in vivo. In vitro, Inhibition of IL-1 signalling by MLX01, VRT043198 and Anakinra reduced migration of E0771 and Py8119 cells and reversed tumour-derived IL1β induced-increased invasion and migration towards bone cells. In vivo, VX765 and Anakinra significantly reduced spontaneous metastasis and metastatic outgrowth in the bone, whereas MLX01 reduced primary tumour growth and bone metastasis. Pacritinib had no effect on metastasis in vitro or in vivo. Targeting IL-1 signalling with small molecule inhibitors may provide a new therapeutic strategy for breast cancer bone metastasis.
The use of immune adjuvants such as toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists reflects a novel strategy in prostate cancer (PCa) therapy. However, interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), a central effector of TLR signaling, has been shown to be responsible for resistance to radiation-induced tumor cell death. In order to better understand the function and epigenetic regulation of IRAK1 in PCa, we performed in vitro cell culture experiments together with integrative bioinformatic studies using the latest single-cell RNA-sequencing data of human PCa and normal prostate (NOR), and data from The Cancer Genome Atlas. We focused on key effectors of TLR signaling, the Myddosome-complex components IRAK1, IRAK4 and MYD88 (myeloid differentiation primary response 88), and TRAF6 (tumor-necrosis-factor receptor associated factor 6). In PCa, IRAK1-mRNA was specifically enriched in luminal epithelial cells, representing 57% of all cells, whereas IRAK4 and MYD88 were predominantly expressed in leukocytes, and TRAF6, in endothelial cells. Compared to NOR, only IRAK1 was significantly overexpressed in PCa (Benjamini-Hochberg adjusted p<2x10-8), whereas the expression of IRAK4, MYD88, and TRAF6 was unchanged in PCa, and IRAK1-expression was inversely correlated with a specific differentially methylated region (IRAK1-DMR) within a predicted promoter region enriched for H3K27ac (Spearman correlation r<-0.36; Fisher's test, p<10-10). Transcription factors with high binding affinities in IRAK1-DMR were significantly enriched for canonical pathways associated with viral infection and carcinogenic transformation in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Gene and Genomes analysis. DU145 cells, exhibiting hypermethylated IRAK1-DMR and low IRAK1-expression, reacted with 4-fold increased IRAK1-expression upon combined treatment with 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine and trichostatin A, and were unresponsive to infection with the uropathogenic Escherichia coli strain UTI89. In contrast, PC3 and LNCaP cells, exhibiting hypomethylated IRAK1-DMR and high endogenous IRAK1-mRNA levels, responded with strong activation of IRAK1-expression to UTI89 infection. In summary, exclusive overexpression of IRAK1 was observed in luminal epithelial cells in PCa, suggesting it has a role in addition to Myddosome-dependent TLR signaling. Our data show that the endogenous epigenetic status of PCa cells within IRAK1-DMR is decisive for IRAK1 expression and should be considered as a predictive marker when selective IRAK1-targeting therapies are considered.
Intercellular communication is critical for homeostasis in mammalian systems, including the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Exosomes are nanoscale lipid extracellular vesicles that mediate communication between many cell types. Notably, the roles of immune cell exosomes in regulating GI homeostasis and inflammation are largely uncharacterized. By generating mouse strains deficient in cell-specific exosome production, we demonstrate deletion of the small GTPase Rab27A in CD11c+ cells exacerbated murine colitis, which was reversible through administration of DC-derived exosomes. Profiling RNAs within colon exosomes revealed a distinct subset of miRNAs carried by colon- and DC-derived exosomes. Among antiinflammatory exosomal miRNAs, miR-146a was transferred from gut immune cells to myeloid and T cells through a Rab27-dependent mechanism, targeting Traf6, IRAK-1, and NLRP3 in macrophages. Further, we have identified a potentially novel mode of exosome-mediated DC and macrophage crosstalk that is capable of skewing gut macrophages toward an antiinflammatory phenotype. Assessing clinical samples, RAB27A, select miRNAs, and RNA-binding proteins that load exosomal miRNAs were dysregulated in ulcerative colitis patient samples, consistent with our preclinical mouse model findings. Together, our work reveals an exosome-mediated regulatory mechanism underlying gut inflammation and paves the way for potential use of miRNA-containing exosomes as a novel therapeutic for inflammatory bowel disease.
Objective: To clarify the mechanism of triptolide (TP) in alleviating the conditions underlying SLE. Methods: Eight-week-old MRL/lpr mice were randomly divided into a model group (n = 5), low-dose TP (TP-L) group (n = 5), and high-dose TP (TP-H) group (n = 5). Mice in these groups were gavaged with normal saline, low-dose TP solution, and high-dose TP solution for 8 weeks, respectively. The expression levels of anti-dsDNA, IgG, IgM, IgA, C3, C4, and CREA, BUN, ALT, AST, ALB, and ALP indexes in the serum of mice were detected. The proportion of CD19+CD138+B220- cells in the spleen and the pathological changes of kidney tissue in the mice were also evaluated. The possible signaling pathways and microRNA (miRNA) targets of TP in the treatment of SLE were analyzed using network pharmacology. The expressions of TLR7 mRNA and miR-146a in Raji cells (a B lymphocyte line) were detected using qPCR before and after intervention with a miR-146a inhibitor. The protein expression levels of TLR7, MyD88, p-IRAK1, and p-NF-κBp65 were detected using western blot analysis. Results: TP could significantly decrease the levels of ds-DNA and IgG, alleviate pathological injury in renal tissue, and upregulate miR-146a expression in the B cells of MRL/lpr mice without obvious liver and kidney toxicity. Network pharmacology analysis showed that TP could mainly regulate the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, and NF-κB signaling pathway, among others. miRNA target prediction suggested that TP could regulate miRNAs such as miR-146a. In vitro cell experiments further confirmed that TP could significantly upregulate miR-146a expression and downregulate the expression of TLR7 mRNA and protein levels TLR7, MyD88, p-IRAK1, and p-NF-κBp65. After intervention with a miR-146a inhibitor, TP had no obvious inhibitory effects on TLR7, MyD88, p-IRAK1, and p-NF-κBp65 expression. Conclusion: TP may exert therapeutic effects on SLE by regulating miR-146a expression, inhibiting the TLR7/NF-κB signaling pathway, and affecting B cell activation.
Curcumin (Cur) is a natural active phenolic compound extracted from the root of Curcuma Longa L. It has anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor and other pharmacological activities, and is commonly used to treat ulcerative colitis (UC). However, it is not clear whether curcumin regulates the function and differentiation of Breg cells to treat UC. In this study, mice with chronic colitis were induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS), and treated with curcumin for 12 days. Curcumin effectively improved the body weight, colonic weight, colonic length, decreased colonic weight index and pathological injury score under colonoscopy in mice with chronic colitis, and significantly inhibited the production of IL-1β, IL-6, IL-33, CCL-2, IFN-γ, TNF-α, and promoted the secretion of IL-4, IL-10, IL-13 and IgA. Importantly, curcumin markedly upregulated CD3- CD19+ CD1d+ , CD3- CD19+ CD25+ , CD3- CD19+ Foxp3+ Breg cells level and significantly down-regulated CD3- CD19+ PD-L1+ , CD3- CD19+ tim-1+ , CD3- CD19+ CD27+ Breg cells level. In addition, our results also showed that curcumin observably inhibited TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, MyD88, IRAK4, p-IRAK4, NF-κB P65, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAB1, TAB2, TAK1, MKK3, MKK6, p38MAPK, p-p38MAPK and CREB expression in TLR/MyD88 signaling pathway. These results suggest that curcumin can regulate the differentiation and function of Breg cell to alleviate DSS-induced colitis, which may be realized by inhibiting TLR/MyD88 pathway.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection is a long-standing public health threat, and the development of host-directed therapy for eradicating Mtb infection requires better insights into Mtb-host interactions. Viperin [virus-inhibitory protein, endoplasmic reticulum-associated, interferon (IFN) inducible] is an IFN-inducible protein with broad antiviral activities. Here, we demonstrated that Viperin was increased in abundance in patients with lymphatic and pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). Viperin-deficient mice had decreased Mtb bacterial loads and enhanced macrophage responses compared with their wild-type counterparts. Viperin suppressed the formation of a complex containing interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1, TNF receptor-associated factor 6, and transforming growth factor β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) and inhibited the TAK1-dependent activation of IκB kinase α/β, thereby impairing the production of nitric oxide and proinflammatory cytokines. These results suggest that Viperin promotes Mtb infection by inhibiting host innate immune responses in macrophages, suggesting that Viperin may be a candidate target for adjunct host-directed therapy in patients with TB.
BACKGROUND: Acute spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating result of neurological trauma with subsequent microenvironment dyshomeostasis that induces neurotoxic phenotype acquisition by astrocytes, exacerbating neurological function impairment. Exosomes derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCMSCs) have demonstrated essential therapeutic effects after central nervous system trauma. However, whether hUCMSC-derived exosomes exert therapeutic effects on neurotoxic astrocytes to facilitate SCI function recovery remains unclear. Additionally, the limited efficiency of single exosomes may restrict the optimization of exosomal biological functions.METHODS: We first determined that exosomes reduce the deleterious effects of neurotoxic astrocytes in vitro and in vivo. Then, we identified critical functional microRNAs (miRNAs). miR-146a-5p was overexpressed in exosomes, and then, miR-146a-5p-modified exosomes were used to investigate the ability of exosomes to reduce neurotoxic astrocyte effects, preserve neurons and promote neurological function recovery in rats with SCI.RESULTS: Cell counting kit-8 and neurite length analyses revealed that exosomes partially reduced the negative effects of neurotoxic astrocytes on PC12 cell viability and neurites in vitro. The exosomes also attenuated inflammatory responses, reduced the number of neurotoxic astrocytes and preserved neural tissue in rats with SCI. Immunofluorescence assays suggested that the number of neurotoxic astrocytes was rapidly increased by injury, reaching a peak 5 days post-injury (dpi) and returning to the normal level 14dpi. Exosomal miR-146a-5p was identified as the critical functional miRNA. Overexpression of miR-146a-5p in exosomes strengthened the biological function of the exosomes. Therefore, the modified exosomes exerted more powerful therapeutic effects than the unmodified exosomes, reducing the deleterious effects of neurotoxic astrocytes both in vitro and in vivo and promoting locomotor function of the hindlimbs in the rats with SCI. Through a series of gain- and loss-of-function experiments, Traf6 and Irak1 were identified as targets of exosomal miR-146a-5p. Ultimately, we found that miR-146a-5p-modified exosomes exerted their function by targeting Traf6/Irak1/NFκB pathway in neurotoxic astrocytes.CONCLUSIONS: In summary, miR-146a-5p-modified exosomes exerted a more powerful effect than unmodified exosomes to promote neurological function recovery in rats with SCI by targeting neurotoxic astrocytes. Therefore, miR-146a-5p-modified exosomes are promising therapeutics for SCI.
Thousands of people die each year from Japanese encephalitis (JE) caused by the Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), probably due to exacerbation of the inflammatory response that impairs the course of the disease. Microglia are mononuclear phagocytic cells located within the parenchyma of the central nervous system; these play a key role in the innate immune response against JEV infections. However, the involvement of toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) in the inflammatory response during the early stages of JEV infection in BV2 cells remains. Here, we evaluated protein profiles and determined the role of TLR2 in the inflammatory response of JEV-infected BV2 cells. High-depth tandem mass tags labeling for quantitative proteomics was used to assess JEV infected-BV2 cells and compare immune response profiles at 6, 12, and 24 h post-infection (hpi). In total, 212 upregulated proteins were detected at 6 hpi, 754 at 12 h, and 191 at 24 h. According to GO and KEGG enrichment analysis, the upregulated proteins showed enrichment for proteins related to the immune response. Parallel reaction monitoring tests, western blotting, and qPCR results showed that the adaptor protein MyD88 was not activated. The expression levels of key proteins downstream of MyD88, such as IRAK1, IRAK4, and TRAF6 did not increase; however, the expression levels of PI3K-AKT did increase. By inhibiting key proteins (TLR2, PI3K, and AKT) we confirmed that JEV activated TLR2, thus resulting in a robust inflammatory response. Consequently, the TLR2-PI3K-AKT signaling axis was proven to play a critical in the early stages of the JEV infection-induced inflammatory response in microglia.
BACKGROUND: Pacritinib (PAC) is a novel JAK2/IRAK1 inhibitor approved for patients with myelofibrosis (MF) and platelets <50×109/L. Previous publications have characterized PAC's unique advantage of reduced myelosuppression. We conducted a retrospective analysis of the phase 3 PERSIST-2 trial to assess PAC's impact on anemia and performed in vitro analysis to explore PAC inhibition of ACVR1 (ALK2).METHODS: This analysis included PERSIST-2 patients with platelet count ≤100×109/L randomized to PAC 200mg BID, PAC 400mg QD, or best available therapy BAT. Transfusion independence (TI) was defined as no RBC transfusions and no hemoglobin level <8g/dL. PAC's activity against ACVR1 was assessed using the HotSpot assay from Reaction Biology Corporation. The activity of the JAK1/JAK2/ACVR1 inhibitor momelotinib was also assessed. IC50 was calculated using 3-fold serial dilutions starting at 10µM.RESULTS: The analysis included 106 patients on PAC 200mg BID, 104 on 400mg QD and 98 on BAT. Patients at baseline, were severely cytopenic, with a median platelet count of 55×109/L. Among patients with baseline hemoglobin <10g/dL, the percentage who achieved ≥1g/dL improvement at any time through week 24 was higher on PAC than BAT (PAC 200mg BID: 15% (5/33); PAC 400mg QD: 23% (7/30); BAT: 7% (2/28). The percentage who achieved an increase of ≥2g/dL trended similarly: PAC 200mg BID: 9% (3/33), PAC 400mg QD: 7% (2/30), BAT: 4% (1/28)). Among patients receiving transfusions or with Hb <8 at baseline, the percentage who achieved TI at any point (evaluated at 12-week intervals) through week 24 was greater on PAC 200mg BID (7/26, 27%) and PAC 400mg QD (6/24, 25%) than BAT (1/19, 5%). On duplicate assays, pacritinib was shown to inhibit ACVR1 with an IC50 of 23 and 11nM. Momelotinib's IC50 was 70 and 35nM in the same assay.CONCLUSIONS: Improvement in hemoglobin levels and transfusion requirements was greater on PAC than BAT, in PERSIST-2. This anemia benefit could be due to PAC's ability to inhibit the iron regulator ACVR1, which has been linked to hepcidin reduction and anemia benefit. These data suggest an important role for PAC in anemic patients with myelofibrosis. This study was supported by CTI BioPharma.
BACKGROUND: Pacritinib (PAC) is a JAK2/IRAK1 inhibitor for patients with myelofibrosis (MF) and thrombocytopenia. Unlike the JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib (RUX), which is used at lower doses in patients with thrombocytopenia, PAC has been studied at full dose regardless of platelet count.METHODS: This analysis focused on PERSIST-2 patients with platelet counts ≤100 × 109/L who were randomized to PAC 200mg BID and patients who received RUX on best available therapy (BAT) prior to week 24. Endpoints included percent of patients with 35% spleen volume reduction (SVR), 50% modified total symptom score (mTSS) reduction (based on early satiety, abdominal discomfort, night sweats, itching, bone pain, and rib pain), and improvement in disease symptoms measured by Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC). Safety analyses were based on all treated patients; efficacy analyses were based on the intention-to-treat population randomized at least 22 weeks prior to study end. The Fisher Exact test was used to describe differences in response. Logistic and Cox regression was used to adjust for differences in baseline characteristics.RESULTS: Safety analysis included 106 patients on PAC and 44 on RUX; efficacy analysis included 74 on PAC and 32 on RUX (median total daily dose 10 mg). Baseline characteristics were similar between groups, including median platelet count (55 vs 61 × 109/L) and percent receiving RBC transfusion (46% vs 43%). Patients treated with PAC vs RUX achieved higher rates of SVR (22% vs 3%, p=0.02) and numerically higher rates of mTSS response (35% vs 19%; p=0.11) and "much" or "very much" improved symptoms (35% vs 16%, p=0.06) at week 24. Among RUX patients with an available PGIC measure at week 24, 50% reported either no improvement or worsening symptoms, while 76% of PAC patients reported improvement. The adjusted hazard ratio on PAC vs RUX was 0.46 [95% CI: 0.15-1.43]. Bleeding occurred at similar rates (43% vs 41%) on PAC vs RUX. Fatal AEs occurred in 8% on PAC compared to 11% on RUX.CONCLUSIONS: PAC yielded higher response rates and a similar safety profile to lower-dose RUX in patients with MF who have moderate or severe thrombocytopenia. This study was supported by CTI BioPharma.
The primary pathophysiological alteration caused by inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is prolonged, excessive inflammatory response to stimulation factors, which leads to intestinal mucosal lesions. microRNA (miR)-146a-5p is broadly activated in the mucosal immune response. At present, the biogenesis, function and role of miR-146a-5p in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) during the pathogenesis of IBD remain elusive. The human colon cancer epithelial Caco-2 cell line was cultured with 10 ng/ml recombinant human IL-1β for 3 h to establish an in vitro IECs inflammatory model. Relative levels of miR-146a-5p and inflammatory factors (IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α and IP-10) were measured by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. Transfection of miR-146a-5p mimic or inhibitor into Caco-2 cells was performed to identify the influence of miR-146a-5p on Caco-2 cell inflammatory factors expression. The targeting relationship between miR-146a-5p and interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1)/tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) was predicted by TargetScan 8.0. The present study demonstrated that miR-146a-5p and inflammatory factors (IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α and IP-10) were upregulated in a dose- and time-dependent manner in IL-1β-stimulated Caco-2 cells. Moreover, upregulation of miR-146a-5p negatively regulated the expression of inflammatory factors, but the downregulation of miR-146a-5p increased their expression. The results of the present study demonstrated that miR-146a-5p decreased the expression of the inflammatory factors through targeted downregulation of IRAK1/TRAF6. These results suggest that miR-146a-5p negatively regulates the IL-1β-stimulated inflammatory response via downregulation of the IRAK1/TRAF6 signaling pathway in human IECs. Therefore, miR-146a-5p may act as an important diagnostic biomarker and treatment target of IBD.
PURPOSE: The mechanism of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor (SGLT-2i) reducing the incidence of atrial fibrillation remains unclear. We hypothesize that sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitor alleviated atrial remodeling in STZ-induced diabetic rats by targeting TLR4 pathway.METHODS: A total of 42 rats were randomly assigned into three groups: control group (CON group); diabetes group (DM group): diabetes mellitus rats were established by 65 mg/kg streptozotocin (STZ) intraperitoneal injection; and diabetes + dapagliflozin group (DM + DAPA group): diabetic rats were given DAPA gavage administration (DAPA 2mg/kg/d for 4 weeks by gavage administration), 14 rats in each group. Epicardial multiple-lead recording and intracardiac electrophysiology studies were performed to investigate the electrical remodeling in the heart and the atrial fibrillation inducibility in each group. Western blot analysis and real-time PCR were used to determine the protein and mRNA expression of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), interleukin receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB), and type I collagen (collagen I).RESULTS: Compared with rats in CON group, rats in DM group showed marked myocardial fibrosis, ectopic pacing excitement, reduced conduction velocity, decreased cardiac function. TLR4/IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB, collagen I proteins expressions and incidence of atrial fibrillation (27.3%) were increased in DM group. Parts of these changes were reversed by treatment of DAPA. Incidence of atrial fibrillation was decreased in DM + DAPA group (2.8%).CONCLUSIONS: SGLT-2i dapagliflozin may prevent diabetic rats' atrial remodeling and reduce the inducibility of atrial fibrillation partly by targeting TLR4/IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB inflammatory pathway.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are the most commonly used targeted therapeutics in clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC); however, drug resistance limits their utility and can lead to tumor "flare-up" and progression. In this study, we show that RCC resistance to sunitinib and sorafenib involves different mechanisms and leads to increased malignancy. Sunitinib decreased tumor growth and cell motility along with increased E-cadherin expression and secretion of the proangiogenic cytokines IL6 and IL8, which activated senescence in ccRCC cells and led to VE-cadherin phosphorylation, enhancing tumor angiogenesis. Sorafenib resistance increased the levels of mesenchymal markers and the secretion of MMP9, which cleaved VE-cadherin and disrupted endothelial cell integrity. Both sunitinib resistance and sorafenib resistance led to activation of the c-Met receptor IRAK1 and downregulation of the tumor suppressor MCPIP1, resulting in an increase in the metastasis of resistant cells, possibly due in part to enhanced vascularization of ccRCC. MCPIP1 overexpression partially overcame resistance to these drugs by decreasing micrometastasis and decreasing the expression of factors involved in tumorigenesis. In tumor samples from ccRCC patients, we observed a significant increase in the level of the c-Met receptor, IRAK1 and a decrease in MCPIP1 with respect to normal kidney tissue. Our results indicate separate novel mechanisms for sunitinib and sorafenib resistance, which both lead to MCPIP1 inhibition and ccRCC progression. The presented study suggests caution in the treatment of RCC with TKIs, which may lead to the unintended outcome of tumor progression.
Synthetic phenolic antioxidant 2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (2,4-DTBP) has gained growing concerns due to relatively high concentrations in aquatic ecosystems. There are, however, significant knowledge gaps regarding its potential toxicity to aquatic organisms. In this study, zebrafish (Danio rerio) larvae were exposed to 0.01, 0.1, or 1 μM 2,4-DTBP for 6 d. Transcriptomic analysis of larvae revealed that biological processes related to anti-inflammatory function of macrophage M2 lineage were inhibited by 0.01 μM 2,4-DTBP. Decreases of transcripts related to the IL1B-MYD88-NF-κB pathway (i.e., il1b, il1rl1, myd88, irak4, irak1, traf6, ikbkg, nfkbia, nfkb) and protein levels of NF-κB in larvae intestine confirmed anti-inflammatory effects of 2,4-DTBP. Subsequently, larvae exposed to 2,4-DTBP were challenged with E. coli and showed higher survival rate, suggesting sustained activation of inflammation via LPS can be attenuated by 2,4-DTBP. Moreover, histological examination revealed that intestine barrier was compromised and there was an imbalance of intestine macrophage homeostasis. Food intake was also reduced following exposure to 0.1 and 1 μM 2,4-DTBP. In addition, a risk assessment revealed that 2,4-DTBP in surface water pose low to high ecological risks to aquatic organisms. Taken together, exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of 2,4-DTBP could negatively affect immune response in zebrafish and may elicit ecological risk in fish population.
Patients with myelofibrosis (MF) frequently develop thrombocytopenia as a consequence of bone marrow fibrosis, splenic sequestration, and myelosuppression from an inflammatory microenvironmental milieu. Thrombocytopenia occurs frequently at diagnosis, worsens with disease progression, is an independent adverse prognostic factor, and limits effective dosing of JAK2 inhibitors. Recently, pacritinib was approved for patients with MF and extreme thrombocytopenia. However, this JAK2/IRAK1 inhibitor is not primarily used to attain improvement in platelet count. In this narrative review, we discuss strategies to specifically address thrombocytopenia in MF patients including immunomodulatory drugs, synthetic androgens, hypomethylating agents and splenectomy, all of which have only modest efficacy in alleviating thrombocytopenia. We also detail transfusion approaches, including diagnostic and therapeutic consideration for platelet transfusion refractoriness. We end by discussing novel therapies, including TGFβ traps and recombinant pentraxin-2, which may increase platelet counts in MF patients. Despite recent therapeutic advancements in MF, there remains a near paucity of agents that can effectively alleviate thrombocytopenia.
Endometriosis is characterized by the presence of inflamed and fibrotic endometrial tissue outside the uterine cavity. Previously, we found decreased SERPINA1 (alpha-1 antitrypsin) expression in endometriosis-like lesions in a mouse model of endometriosis, suggesting that it exacerbated inflammation in these lesions. However, the molecular mechanism(s) by which SERPINA1 affects expression of inflammatory factors and development of endometriotic lesions have not been fully characterized. To investigate the role of intracellular SERPINA1 in endometrial stromal cells (ESCs), we performed RNA sequence analysis using RNA extracted from ESCs in which SERPINA1 was knocked down. The analysis identified several toll-like receptor (TLR)-related factors as being upregulated. Silencing of SERPINA1 increased expression of TLR3 and TLR4 in ESCs, as well as several TLR signaling pathway components, including MYD88, IRAK1/4, interleukin (IL)-1β, and interferon (IFN)-β. TLR3 or TLR4 agonists increased expression of inflammatory factors in SERPINA1-knockdown ESCs, whereas TLR3 or TLR4 inhibitors decreased expression. In addition, treatment with recombinant IL-1β or IFN-β increased expression of MYD88 and inflammatory factors in ESCs. Immunohistochemical analysis of endometriotic tissues showed that TLR3, TLR4, and MYD88 were localized in endometriosis lesions. Taken together, the data suggest that reduced expression of SERPINA1 induces expression of inflammatory factors by ESCs, which in turn are associated with TLR3/4, IL-1β, and IFN-β signaling. Regulation of intracellular SERPINA1 levels in ESCs may be a strategy to inhibit inflammatory responses in endometriotic lesions.
Erratum in    Front Immunol. 2022 Nov 07;13:1074864.
A large amount of circumstantial evidence has accumulated suggesting that Toll-like receptor (TLR) signals are involved in driving chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cell proliferation, but direct in vivo evidence for this is still lacking. We have now further addressed this possibility by pharmacologically inhibiting or genetically inactivating the TLR pathway in murine CLL and human Richter syndrome (RS) patient-derived xenograft (PDX) cells. Surprisingly, we show that pharmacologic inhibition of TLR signaling by treatment with an IRAK1/4 inhibitor delays the growth of the transplanted malignant cells in recipient mice, but genetic inactivation of the same pathway by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated disruption of IRAK4 or its proximal adaptor MyD88 has no effect. We further show that treatment with the IRAK1/4 inhibitor results in depletion of macrophages and demonstrate that these cells can support the survival and enhance the proliferation of both murine Eμ-TCL1 leukemia and human RS cells. We also show that genetic disruption of the B-cell receptor (BCR) by CRISPR/Cas9 editing of the immunoglobulin M constant region gene inhibits the growth of human RS-PDX cells in vivo, consistent with our previous finding with murine Eμ-TCL1 leukemia cells. Finally, we show that genetic disruption of IRAK4 does not result in negative selection of human CLL cell lines xenografted in immunodeficient mice. The obtained data suggest that TLR signals are unlikely to represent a major driver of CLL/RS cell proliferation and provide further evidence that signals from macrophages and the BCR promote the growth and survival of CLL and RS cells in vivo.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly malignant and heterogeneous tumor with poor prognosis. Cancer driver genes (CDGs) play an important role in the carcinogenesis and progression of HCC. In this study, we comprehensively investigated the expression, mutation, and prognostic significance of 568 CDGs in HCC. A prognostic risk model was constructed based on seven CDGs (CDKN2C, HRAS, IRAK1, LOX, MYCN, NRAS, and PABPC1) and verified to be an independent prognostic factor in both TCGA and ICGC cohorts. The low-score group, which showed better prognosis, had a high proportion of CD8+ T cells and elevated expression of interferon-related signaling pathways. Additionally, we constructed a nomogram to extend the clinical applicability of the prognostic model, which exhibits excellent predictive accuracy for survival. Our study showed the important role of CDGs in HCC and provides a novel prognostic indicator for HCC.
INTRODUCTION: Myelofibrosis (MF) is a rare myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by a complex symptom profile, cytopenias, splenomegaly, and potential for leukemic progression. Severe thrombocytopenia is common in patients with MF and correlates with poor prognosis; however, until recently, treatment options for these patients were limited. Pacritinib, a potent Janus kinase (JAK) 2/interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) inhibitor, has demonstrated significant reduction in splenomegaly, improved symptom control, and a manageable safety profile in patients with MF regardless of the severity of thrombocytopenia.AREAS COVERED: This review will outline the pacritinib drug profile and summarize key efficacy and safety data, focusing on the 200 mg twice daily dose from phase 2 and 3 studies that formed the basis for the recent US Food and Drug Administration approval of pacritinib in patients with MF and severe thrombocytopenia (platelet counts <50 × 109/L).EXPERT OPINION: Pacritinib, with its unique mechanism of action targeting both JAK2 and IRAK1, offers patients with MF and severe thrombocytopenia a new treatment option, providing consistent disease and symptom control. Adverse events are easily manageable. Further analyses to identify ideal patient characteristics for pacritinib and other JAK inhibitors along with studies of pacritinib combinations are warranted, including in related myeloid malignancies.
Melanoma accounts for the majority of skin cancer-related deaths. Nerium oleander is a plant known to be toxic and consumed due to the cardiac glycosides it contains. Oleandrin is a cardiac glycoside obtained from of N. oleander. Beside capable of inhibiting proliferation and metastasis of cancer cells, cardiac glycoside derivative compounds cause cardiovascular side effects. Because of cardiovascular toxicity of clinically used cardiac glycosides, it is necessary to investigate cardiac glycoside derivative compounds capable of inhibiting proliferation and metastasis of cancer cells. It is known that oleandrin has anticarcinogenic effects in other cancers. Previous studies have shown that toll-like receptors (TLRs) and their related microRNAs (miRNAs) are associated with cancer. Therefore, aim was to investigate the effect of oleandrin on genes and miRNAs associated with TLRs in A375 melanoma cells in this study. The effects of oleandrin on cell viability, cytokines, apoptosis were evaluated using XTT, ELISA and TUNEL analyses, respectively. The effect of oleandrin on expression of TLR genes and 5 associated miRNAs in A375 cells has been determined by qRT-PCR. In addition, the levels of MyD88, TLR2 and TLR4 proteins were analyzed by western blot method. ELISA indicated that oleandrin treatment (47 nM at 48 h) reduced the level of proinflammatory cytokine IFNG. TUNEL analysis showed that apoptosis rate was significantly increased in the oleandrin dose group. According to qRT-PCR results, there was a significant decrease in IRAK1, IRAK4, MyD88, TLR2-TLR7 and TRAF3 expressions in the oleandrin treated group compared to the control (untreated cell). Also, a significant decrease in TLR4 protein expression has been observed. In addition, oleandrin significantly downregulated the levels of hsa-miRNA-146a-5p and hsa-miRNA-21-5p. In conclusion, it has been observed that oleandrin has an effect on TLR pathway-related genes and miRNAs in melanoma cells. We show that TLRs pathways and hsa-miR-146a-5p and hsa-miR-21-5p can participate in the oleandrin molecular mechanism of action.
Heme is an essential cofactor for many human proteins as well as the primary transporter of oxygen in blood. Recent studies have also established heme as a signaling molecule, imparting its effects through binding with protein partners rather than through reactivity of its metal center. However, the comprehensive annotation of such heme-binding proteins in the human proteome remains incomplete. Here, we describe a strategy which utilizes a heme-based photoaffinity probe integrated with quantitative proteomics to map heme-protein interactions across the proteome. In these studies, we identified 350+ unique heme-protein interactions, the vast majority of which were heretofore unknown and consist of targets from diverse functional classes, including transporters, receptors, enzymes, transcription factors, and chaperones. Among these proteins is the immune-related interleukin receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), where we provide preliminary evidence that heme agonizes its catalytic activity. Our findings should improve the current understanding of heme's regulation as well as its signaling functions and facilitate new insights of its roles in human disease.
Sex-related outcome differences in trauma remain controversial. The mechanisms causing sex-biased outcomes are likely to have hormonal and genetic components, in which X-linked genetic polymorphisms may play distinct roles because of X-linked inheritance, hemizygosity in males, and X chromosome mosaicism in females. The study aimed to elucidate the contribution of biological sex and the common X-linked IRAK1 haplotype to posttrauma clinical complications, inflammatory cytokine and chemokine production, and polymorphonuclear cell and monocyte activation. Postinjury clinical outcome was tested in 1507 trauma patients (1,110 males, 397 females) after stratification by sex or the variant IRAK1 haplotype. Males showed a three- to fivefold greater frequency of posttrauma sepsis, but similar mortality compared to females. Stratification by the variant IRAK1 haplotype revealed increased pneumonia and urinary tract infection in Wild type (WT) versus variant IRAK1 males, whereas increased respiratory failures in variant versus WT females. Cytokine/chemokine profiles were tested in whole blood from a subset of patients (n = 81) and healthy controls (n = 51), which indicated sex-related differences in ex vivo lipopolysaccharide responsiveness manifesting in a 1.5- to 2-fold increased production rate of tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin-1β (IL-1β), IL-10, Macrophage Inflammatory Protein-1 Alpha, and MIP1β in WT male compared to WT female trauma patients. Variant IRAK1 decreased IL-6, IL-8, and interferon gamma-induced protein 10 production in male trauma subjects compared to WT, whereas cytokine/chemokine responses were similar in variant IRAK1 and WT female trauma subjects. Trauma-induced and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated polymorphonuclear cell and monocyte activation determined by using a set of cluster of differentiation markers and flow cytometry were not influenced by sex or variant IRAK1. These findings suggest that variant IRAK1 is a potential contributor to sex-based outcome differences, but its immunomodulatory impacts are modulated by biological sex.
Excessive activation of Toll-like receptor (TLR) leads to sepsis. Inflammatory responses to various microbiological components are initiated via different TLR proteins, but all TLR signals are transmitted by TRAF6. We reported that TRAF6 associated with ubiquitinated IRAK-1 undergoes proteasome-mediated degradation, suggesting that IRAK-1 has a negative regulatory role in TLR signaling. Here, we investigated the minimal structural region of IRAK-1 needed for degradation of TRAF6. The IRAK-1 protein contains an N-terminal death domain (DD; amino acids 1-102), a serine/proline/threonine-rich ProST domain (amino acids 103-197), a central kinase domain with an activation loop (amino acids 198-522), and the C-terminal C1 and C2 domains (amino acids 523-712), which contain two and one putative TRAF6-binding (TB) sites, respectively. TRAF6 degradation was severely impaired by deletion of the DD or C1 domain, and a mutant (DC1) containing only the DD and C1 domains could induce TRAF6 degradation. IRAK-1 mutants lacking the N- or C-terminal amino acids of DD induced little degradation. Deletion or mutation of TB2 (amino acids 585-591) in the C1 domain also inhibited TRAF6 degradation. An IRAK-1 mutant possessing only DD and TB2 did not induce TRAF6 degradation, although a mutant in which a short spacer was inserted between DD and TB2 induced TRAF6 degradation, which and DC1-induced degradation were inhibited by proteasome inhibitors. All IRAK-1 mutants that induced TRAF6 degradation could be immunoprecipitated with TRAF6. Meanwhile, NF-κB activation was observed for all IRAK-1 mutants-including those that failed to induce degradation and was severely impaired only for a mutant carrying mutations in both TBs of C1. These results demonstrate that only DD and TB2 separated by an appropriate distance can induce TRAF6 degradation. Conformational analysis of this minimal structural unit may aid development of low molecular compounds that negatively regulate TLR signaling.
Subepithelial fibrosis is a characteristic hallmark of airway remodeling in asthma. Current asthma medications have limited efficacy in treating fibrosis, particularly in patients with severe asthma, necessitating a deeper understanding of the fibrotic mechanisms. The NF-κB pathway is key to airway inflammation in asthma, as it regulates the activity of multiple pro-inflammatory mediators that contribute to airway pathology. Bcl10 is a well-known upstream mediator of the NF-κB pathway that has been linked to fibrosis in other disease models. Therefore, we investigated Bcl10-mediated NF-κB activation as a potential pathway regulating fibrotic signaling in severe asthmatic fibroblasts. We demonstrate here the elevated protein expression of Bcl10 in bronchial fibroblasts and bronchial biopsies from severe asthmatic patients when compared to non-asthmatic individuals. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced the increased expression of the pro-fibrotic cytokines IL-6, IL-8 and TGF-β1 in bronchial fibroblasts, and this induction was associated with the activation of Bcl10. Inhibition of the Bcl10-mediated NF-κB pathway using an IRAK1/4 selective inhibitor abrogated the pro-fibrotic signaling induced by LPS. Thus, our study indicates that Bcl10-mediated NF-κB activation signals increased pro-fibrotic cytokine expression in severe asthmatic airways. This reveals the therapeutic potential of targeting Bcl10 signaling in ameliorating inflammation and fibrosis, particularly in severe asthmatic individuals.
BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) occur frequently in the digestive system and are associated with high mortality. This current study examined the regulatory relationship between interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), NLR family pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasomes, and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in the growth and metastasis of HCC.METHODS: The expression of IRAK1 and NLRP3 was assessed in tissues and cells via quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot analysis. Immunohistology was performed to detect the macrophage markers CD68, CD163, and CD168 in tumor tissues. Small interfering (si)RNA targeting IRAK1 (si-IRAK1) was designed to silence IRAK1 expression. Following si-IRAK1 transfection and/or co-culture with TAMs, HCC cell viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion, as well as the expression of NLRP3 and pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1 β, IL-18, and monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1) were assessed.RESULTS: HCC tissues showed elevated expression of IRAK1 and NLRP3, as well as increased expression of the macrophage markers CD68, CD163, and CD168, compared to adjacent healthy tissues. Silencing of IRAK1 expression in HepG2 and Huh7 cells resulted in suppression of cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, and also reduced expression of NLRP3 and the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IL-18, and MCP-1. Moreover, TAMs promoted HepG2 and Huh7 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, and elevated the expression of NLRP3, IL-1β, IL-18, and MCP-1. Furthermore, IRAK1 silencing reversed the effects of TAMs on HepG2 and Huh7 cells.CONCLUSIONS: The expression of IRAK1 was associated with HCC growth and metastasis, as well as NLRP3 inflammasome activation. The ability of TAMs to promote HCC growth and metastasis may be activated by NLRP3 inflammasomes and regulated by IRAK1.
The current experiment was carried out to explore the effect of the miR-146a-mediated TLR4 signaling pathway on the lumbar disc herniation pains. For this aim, a total of 32 rats were divided randomly into 4 groups - the blank group (Group C), Model group (M), miR-146a overexpression group (agomiR-146a group) and negative control group (NC group), with 8 rats in each group. Rats in Group M were prepared for the construction of lumbar disc herniation models, while those in the agomiR-146a group or NC group, in addition to the model construction, would receive the intrathecal injection of agomiR-146a or agomiRNA-146a NC. Thereafter, a series of tests were performed for rats, including the mechanical pain test and heat pain test to measure the pain threshold, RT-PCR to detect the expression of miR-146a, and the transcription of TLR4, IRAK1, TRAF6, IL-6 and TNF-α, Western blot to determine the expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6 and ELISA to determine the expression of IL-6 and TNF-α. Results showed that as compared to the blank group, rats in Group M were more sensitive to the pains, presenting with declines in the thresholds in the pain, and upregulation in the TRL4 signaling pathway (TLR4, IRAK1 and TRAF6) and pro-inflammatory factors, including IL-6 and TNF-α. In comparison with Group M, intrathecal injection of agomiR-146a relieved the pains, with significant upregulation of miR-146a and downregulation of TLR4, IRAK1, TRAF6, IL-6 and TNF-α. Then upregulation of miR-146a could reduce the activity of the TLR4 signaling pathway and the release of pro-inflammatory factors, which may be a potential strategy for the treatment of lumbar disc herniation.
IL-1 receptor-activated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is involved in signal transduction downstream of many TLRs and the IL-1R. Its potential as a drug target for chronic inflammatory diseases is underappreciated. To study its functional role in joint inflammation, we generated a mouse model expressing a functionally inactive IRAK1 (IRAK1 kinase deficient, IRAK1KD), which also displayed reduced IRAK1 protein expression and cell type-specific deficiencies of TLR signaling. The serum transfer model of arthritis revealed a potentially novel role of IRAK1 for disease development and neutrophil chemoattraction exclusively via its activity in nonhematopoietic cells. Consistently, IRAK1KD synovial fibroblasts showed reduced secretion of neutrophil chemoattractant chemokines following stimulation with IL-1β or human synovial fluids from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and gout. Together with patients with RA showing prominent IRAK1 expression in fibroblasts of the synovial lining, these data suggest that targeting IRAK1 may be therapeutically beneficial. As pharmacological inhibition of IRAK1 kinase activity had only mild effects on synovial fibroblasts from mice and patients with RA, targeted degradation of IRAK1 may be the preferred pharmacologic modality. Collectively, these data position IRAK1 as a central regulator of the IL-1β-dependent local inflammatory milieu of the joints and a potential therapeutic target for inflammatory arthritis.
BACKGROUND: Bone marrow cells (BMCs), especially mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), have shown attractive application prospects in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). However, the weak efficacy becomes their main limitation in clinical translation. Based on the anti-inflammation and anti-apoptosis effects of a Chinese medicine-Tongxinluo (TXL), we aimed to explore the effects of TXL-pretreated MSCs (MSCsTXL) in enhancing cardiac repair and further investigated the underlying mechanism.METHODS: MSCsTXL or MSCs and the derived exosomes (MSCsTXL-exo or MSCs-exo) were collected and injected into the infarct zone of rat hearts. In vivo, the anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammation effects, and cardiac functional and histological recovery were evaluated. In vitro, the apoptosis was evaluated by western blotting and flow cytometry. miRNA sequencing was utilized to identify the significant differentially expressed miRNAs between MSCsTXL-exo and MSCs-exo, and the miRNA mimics and inhibitors were applied to explore the specific mechanism.RESULTS: Compared to MSCs, MSCsTXL enhanced cardiac repair with reduced cardiomyocytes apoptosis and inflammation at the early stage of AMI and significantly improved left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) with reduced infarct size in an exosome-dependent way. Similarly, MSCsTXL-exo exerted superior therapeutic effects in anti-apoptosis and anti-inflammation, as well as improving LVEF and reducing infarct size compared to MSCs-exo. Further exosomal miRNA analysis demonstrated that miR-146a-5p was the candidate effector of the superior effects of MSCsTXL-exo. Besides, miR-146a-5p targeted and decreased IRAK1, which inhibited the nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65 thus protecting H9C2 cells from hypoxia injury.CONCLUSIONS: This study suggested that MSCsTXL markedly facilitated cardiac repair via a new mechanism of the exosomal transfer of miR-146a-5p targeting IRAK1/NF-κB p65 pathway, which has great potential for clinical translation.
Macrophages promote an early host response to infection by releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL) 1β (IL-1β), tumour necrosis factor (TNF), and IL-6. One of the mechanisms through which cells sense pathogenic microorganisms is through Toll-like receptors (TLRs). IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) 1, IRAK2, IRAK3, and IRAK4 are integral to TLR and IL-1 receptor signalling pathways. Recent studies suggest a role for aberrant TLR8 and NLRP3 inflammasome activation during both COVID-19 and HIV-1 infection. Here, we show that pacritinib inhibits the TLR8-dependent pro-inflammatory cytokine response elicited by GU-rich single-stranded RNA derived from SARS-CoV-2 and HIV-1. Using genetic and pharmacologic inhibition, we demonstrate that pacritinib inhibits IRAK1 phosphorylation and ubiquitination which then inhibits the recruitment of the TAK1 complex to IRAK1, thus inhibiting the activation of downstream signalling and the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
MicroRNA-146a-5p (miR-146a-5p) has been shown to mediate the inflammatory responses and autophagy in many diseases; however, its role in acute pancreatitis (AP) is not clear.OBJECTIVE: To determine the expression and role of miR-146a-5p in taurolithocholic acid-3-sulphate (TLCs) induced-AR42J cell model of AP.METHODS: Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, western blot, enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), miRNA mimics or vectors or small interfering RNAs transfection and dual-luciferase reporter assay were employed in this study.RESULTS: miR-146a-5p was concentration-dependently decreased; while, interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6) were concentration-dependently increased after TLCs treatment. TLCs induced high levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) and impaired autophagy characterized as increased of LC3-II/I and decreased expression of p62. Overex-presion of miR-146a-5p and knockdown of IRAK1/TRAF6 inhibited TLCs-induced inflammation and autophagy. Luciferase assay confirmed miR-146a-5p can directly target IRAK1 and TRAF6. The expression of p-NF-κB p65 was increased by TLCs, decreased by miR-146a-5p overexpression and IRAK1/ TRAF6 knockdown but increased after upregulation of IRAK1/TRAF6.CONCLUSIONS: Overexpression of miR-146a-5p ameliorates inflammation and autophagy in TLCs-treated AR42J cells by inhibiting IRAK1/ TRAF6/NF-κB pathway.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1/4 (IRAK1/4) is the main kinase of the Toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated pathway, considered a new target for treating inflammatory diseases. Studies showed a significant correlation between TLRs and inflammatory responses in ulcerative colitis (UC). Therefore, in this study, after inducing experimental colitis in mice with 3% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS), different concentrations of IRAK1/4 inhibitors were administered intraperitoneally. Then, the disease activity index was assessed, including the degree of pathological damage, by HE staining. Subsequently, while western blotting detected the TLR4/NF-κB pathway and intestinal barrier protein expression (Zonula-1, Occludin, Claudin-1, JAM-A), real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) detected the mRNA expression levels of IRAK1/4 and mucin1/2. Furthermore, the expression levels of Zonula-1 and occludin were detected by immunofluorescence, including the plasma FITC-dextran 4000 concentration, to evaluate intestinal barrier permeability. However, ELISA measured the expression of inflammatory factors to reflect intestinal inflammation in mice. Investigations showed that the IRAK 1/4 inhibitor significantly reduced clinical symptoms and pathological DSS-induced colitis damage in mice and then inhibited the cytoplasmic and nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65, including the phosphorylation of IκBα and reduction in downstream inflammatory factor production. Therefore, we established that the IRAK1/4 inhibitor effectively improves colitis induced by DSS, partly by inhibiting the TLR4/NF-κB pathway, reducing inflammation, and maintaining the integrity of the colonic barrier.
PURPOSE: MiR-146a upregulated in limbus vs. central cornea and in diabetic vs. non-diabetic limbus has emerged as an important immune and inflammatory signaling mediator in corneal epithelial wound healing. Our aim was to investigate the potential inflammation-related miR-146a target genes and their roles in normal and impaired diabetic corneal epithelial wound healing.METHODS: Our previous data from RNA-seq combined with quantitative proteomics of limbal epithelial cells (LECs) transfected with miR-146a mimic vs. mimic control were analyzed. Western blot and immunostaining were used to confirm the expression of miR-146a inflammatory target proteins in LECs and organ-cultured corneas. Luminex assay was performed on conditioned media at 6- and 20-h post-wounding in miR-146a mimic/inhibitor transfected normal and diabetic cultured LECs.RESULTS: Overexpression of miR-146a decreased the expression of pro-inflammatory TRAF6 and IRAK1 and downstream target NF-κB after challenge with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or wounding. Additionally, miR-146a overexpression suppressed the production of downstream inflammatory mediators including secreted cytokines IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8, and chemokines CXCL1, CXCL2 and CXCL5. These cytokines and chemokines were upregulated in normal but not in diabetic LEC during wounding. Furthermore, we achieved normalized levels of altered secreted cytokines and chemokines in diabetic wounded LEC via specific inhibition of miR-146a.CONCLUSION: Our study documented significant impact of miR-146a on the expression of inflammatory mediators at the mRNA and protein levels during acute inflammatory responses and wound healing, providing insights into the regulatory role of miR-146a in corneal epithelial homeostasis in normal and diabetic conditions.
IRAK1 is an active kinase which plays a critical role in IL-1/TLR signaling pathway involved in inflammation and innate immune response. Recently, increasing evidence supports a potential role of IRAK1 in cancer progression. However, no immunological pan-cancer analysis of IRAK1 is available. We aimed to explore the prognostic value and the immunological functions of IRAK1. A series of datasets including The Cancer Genome Atlas, GEPIA2, cBioPortal, HPA, TIMER2.0 were performed to explore the oncogenic and immunological roles of IRAK1, including the relationship between IRAK1 and prognosis, genetic mutation, GO and KEGG enrichment pathway analysis, immune state of different tumors, The results showed that IRAK1 levels were upregulated in more than 20 types of cancers compared to the normal tissues. IRAK1 expression was associated with poorer prognosis in different cancer types. For the most frequent DNA alteration of IRAK1 is amplification. And the result of the enrichment analysis suggested that IRAK1 related to immune checkpoint pathway in cancer. IRAK1 inhibitor pacritinib inhibit proliferation and upregulate PD-L1 expression in different cancer cell lines. Moreover, the patients who receiving anti-PD-L1 therapy with low IRAK1 expression had a better prognosis, and the objective response rate to anti-PD-L1 therapy was higher in the low IRAK1 group than in the high IRAK1 group in IMvigor210 cohort. Our study reveals that IRAK1 can function as a prognostic marker in various malignant tumors. And pacritinib upregulated PD-L1 expression in several cancer cell lines, which indicating that IRAK1 can be used as a reliable marker to predict the efficacy of immunotherapy.
Cannabis sativa var. Kompolti, a variety routinely used for food production purposes, is characterized by a low concentration of psychoactive molecules, although containing many other biologically attractive metabolites in all parts of the plant, including the roots. In the present work, we evaluate the specific biological activities of the roots' extract from plants cultivated through aeroponics, an affordable and reliable method facilitating the isolation and processing of roots, with the advantage of being suitable for industrial scale-up. Furthermore, aeroponics results in an increased net accumulation of the most biologically attractive constituents (β-sitosterol, friedelin and epi-friedelanol) found in the roots. The ethanolic extract of the aeroponic roots of C. sativa (APEX) and its separate components are studied to evaluate their anti-inflammatory (modulation of the expression level of specific markers upon LPS stimulation in U937 cells, such as IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, IkB-α, iNOS, IRAK-1 and miR-146a) and antioxidant (in either acellular or cellular settings) activities. The APEX anti-inflammatory and antioxidant capacities are also functionally benchmarked using the wound-healing assay. On the whole, the data obtained show that APEX and its main components showed significant anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities, which may render the exploitation of roots as a source of natural antioxidants and anti-inflammatory agents highly attractive, with the additional technical and economic advantages of aeroponics compared to soil cultivation.
INTRODUCTION: Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by lipid metabolism disorder and vascular endothelial damage. Albiflorin (AF) has been certified to be effective in the therapy of certain inflammatory diseases, while the therapeutic effect and mechanism of AF on AS have not been fully elucidated. Material and Methods. Model cells for AS were created by inducing oxidized low-density lipoprotein (Ox-LDL) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). After processing with AF and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1- (IRAK1-) overexpressed plasmid, cell viability was assessed by CCK-8; cholesterol efflux was tested using liquid scintillation counter; IL-6 and TNF-α levels were determined with ELISA kits; ROS and apoptosis were confirmed using Flow cytometry. Besides, IRAK1-TAK1 pathway and apoptosis- and mitochondrial fusion-related proteins were monitored with western blotting analysis.RESULTS: Our results verified that AF could not only dramatically accelerate viability and cholesterol efflux but also attenuate inflammation, ROS production, and apoptosis in Ox-LDL-induced HUVECs. Meanwhile, AF could prominently prevent the activation of IRAK1-TAK1 pathway, downregulate apoptosis-related proteins, and upregulate mitochondrial fusion-related proteins in Ox-LDL-induced HUVECs. Moreover, we testified that IRAK1 overexpression memorably could reverse suppression of AF on inflammation, apoptosis, and IRAK1-TAK1 pathway and enhancement of AF on viability, cholesterol efflux, and mitochondrial fusion in Ox-LDL-induced HUVECs.CONCLUSIONS: By blocking the IRAK1/TAK1 pathway, AF can significantly slow the course of AS, suggesting that it could be a viable therapeutic option for AS.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovitis, in which T helper 1 (Th1) can promote the development of a pro-inflammatory microenvironment. Poly(rC)-binding protein 1 (PCBP1) has been identified as a promising biomarker of RA, while its molecular mechanisms in RA development are unknown. As a canonical RNA binding protein, we propose that PCBP1 could play roles in RA by affecting both expression and alternative splicing levels in Th1 cells. Here, microarray datasets (GSE15573 and GSE23561), including 102 peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 39 RA patients and 63 controls, were used to evaluate the PCBP1 expression changes in RA patients. High throughput sequencing data (GSE84702) of iron driven pathogenesis in Th1 cells were downloaded and reanalyzed, including two Pcbp1 deficiency samples and two control samples in Th1 cells. In addition, CLIP-seq data of PCBP1 in Jurkat T cells was also analyzed to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of PCBP1. We found PCBP1 were down-regulated in RA specimens compared with control. The result of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) showed that Pcbp1 silencing in Th1 cells affected the expression of genes involved in immune response pathway. Alternative splicing analysis also revealed that PCBP1-regulated alternative splicing genes (RASGs) were enriched in TNF-a/NF-κB signaling pathway, T cell activation, T cell differentiation and T cell differentiation associated immune response pathways, which were highly associated with RA. DEGs and RASGs by Pcbp1 deficiency in mice were validated in PBMCs specimens of RA patients by RT-qPCR. Investigation of the CLIP-seq data revealed PCBP1 preferred to bind to 3'UTR and intron regions. PCBP1-bound genes were also significantly associated with RASGs, identifying 102 overlapped genes of these two gene sets. These genes were significantly enriched in several immune response related pathways, including myeloid cell differentiation and positive regulation of NF-κB transcription factor activity. Two RA-related genes, PML and IRAK1, were screened from the above immune related pathways. These results together support our hypothesis that PCBP1 can regulate the expression of genes involved in immune response pathway, and can bind to and regulate the alternative splicing of immune response related genes in immune T cells, and ultimately participate in the molecular mechanism of RA, providing new research ideas and directions for clinical diagnosis and treatment.
BACKGROUND: Ezrin/radixin/moesin (ERM) proteins are members of the protein 4.1 superfamily and function as linkers that connect the actin cytoskeleton to the plasma membrane of cells. ERM also play critical role in the Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory response. However, the signaling mechanisms involved in this process remain unclear. In this study, we aimed to investigate the potential role of the rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase (ROCK) pathway in LPS-induced ezrin phosphorylation and cytokine production in pulmonary alveolar epithelial cells.METHODS: Cultured A549 and HPAEpiC cells were treated with LPS. The expression and localization of ezrin in A549 and HPAEpiC cells were then analyzed by western blotting and immunoflurescence. Activation of RhoA/ROCK was assessed by western blotting and RhoA activity assays. The interaction of ezrin with Syk and myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88)/IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) was investigated by co-immunoprecipitation. The activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) was measured with electrophoretic mobility shift assays and by western blotting. ELISA and western blotting were performed to detect the levels of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), and high mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1) release into the culture supernatant, and cellular HMGB1 levels.RESULTS: LPS induced ezrin phosphorylation in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The blockade of RhoA/ROCK inhibited LPS-induced ezrin phosphorylation and its translocation from the cytoplasm to the cell membrane. Co-immunoprecipitation assays further revealed that ezrin associated with Syk constitutively, but only associated with MyD88/IRAK-1 upon LPS challenge. Moreover, LPS-induced p38 and nuclear NF-κB activation was found to be ezrin dependent. The suppression of ezrin by siRNA or the blockade of ROCK activation with Y-27632 reduced the production of TNF-α, IL-1β, and HMGB1 in response to LPS.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism involving ezrin in the LPS-induced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and highlight the importance of the RhoA/ROCK-ezrin/Syk-MyD88/IRAK1 axis. Data presented in this manuscript provide novel insights into the signaling pathways activated in pulmonary alveolar epithelial cells by LPS. Video Abstract.
Pseudokinases are emerging as critical components of cell signaling pathways. Consequently, the ability to obtain large quantities of pure protein for structural characterization and drug discovery efforts has become essential for the study of these proteins. Small molecules binding to pseudokinases may induce allosteric changes and serve as valuable tools to study the physiological roles of these "dead" enzymes. The IRAK family of kinases are key components of the innate immune response and the active IRAK family members, IRAK-1 and -4, have been extensively studied. However, the other two IRAKs, IRAK-2 and IRAK-3, are classified as pseudokinases and their detailed functions and roles remain to be described. In this chapter, we present comprehensive protocols for the purification of IRAKs, the crystallization of the pseudokinase domain of IRAK3, and a high-throughput drug screening pipeline using thermal shift and biolayer-interferometry assays to identify small molecule binders.
Resveratrol is known to have anti-inflammatory properties. However, high-dose resveratrol is required for optimal anti-inflammatory effects. HS-1793 is a derivative designed to be metabolically stable and more effective than resveratrol. We tested whether HS-1793 also has anti-inflammatory activity. HS-1793 effectively inhibited the mRNA and protein expression of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in macrophages. Therefore, the production of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) was significantly attenuated. In addition, HS-1793 completely suppressed the production of inflammatory cytokines enhanced by LPS treatment along with a decrease in Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) expression. At the same time, the expression of myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) signaling molecules and the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB)/p65 were also downregulated. We conclusively suggest that HS-1793 also exhibits anti-inflammatory properties by effectively inhibiting TLR4-mediated NF-κB activation.
NF-κB signaling is a pivotal regulator of the inflammatory response and it must be tightly controlled to avoid an excessive inflammatory response that may lead to human chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Thus, how NF-κB signaling is precisely controlled is a long-standing question in the field. TRAF family proteins function as key adaptors to mediate NF-κB signaling induced by various receptors. Here, we characterize KIZ/GM114 as a negative regulator balancing the NF-κB signaling. Mechanistically, KIZ/GM114 binds TRAF6/2 by targeting the TRAF domains to antagonize the TRAF6-IRAK1 association or the TRAF2-TRADD association, consequently reducing the IL-1β/LPS/TNFα-induced NF-κB activation. Importantly, upon dextran sulfate sodium treatment, Gm114 deficiency induces a stronger inflammatory response, more severe acute colitis and lower survival rate in mice compared with control mice. Collectively, our study not only identifies KIZ/GM114 as a negative regulator to balance the NF-κB signaling, but it also implies a new strategy for limiting excessive inflammatory response.
Benzimidazole ring system is an important pharmacophore with diverse pharmacological activities. In this study, we explored the anti-arthritic effects of newly synthesized acetamide derivatives of 2-aminobenzimidazole (N1 and N2) in rats. FTIR and NMR spectroscopies were used to characterize these compounds. Carrageenan (CRG) induced paw edema model was used to test the acute anti-inflammatory activity of various doses (10, 20 and 30 mg/kg) of N1 and N2 compounds. Based on acute anti-inflammatory effects, the most potent dose of each compound was selected and investigated in complete freund's adjuvant (CFA) induced inflammatory arthritis (RA) model (n = 4 in each group). Histopathological, hematological, radiographic, and RT-qPCR analyses were performed to assess the progression or resolution of inflammatory arthritis. The tested compounds produced a dose-dependent anti-inflammatory activity against CRG induced paw inflammation and similarly reduced edema in CFA induced inflammatory arthritis model. Histopathological and X-ray analyses of ankle joints revealed minimal inflammation and normal joint structures in N1 and N2 treated groups. The tested compounds also reduced the levels of autoantibodies and restored hematological parameters. Interestingly, the tested compounds did not elevate aspartate aminotransferase and alanine transaminase levels and displayed a better safety profile than methotrexate. N1 and N2 compounds also attenuated the transcript levels of IRAK1, NF-kB1, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL17 and MMP1. In addition, N1 displayed a greater inhibition of mRNA levels of COX1, COX2, mPGES1 and PTGDS as compared to N2. Our findings demonstrate that N1 and N2 compounds possess strong anti-arthritic activity which can be attributed to the suppression of pro-inflammatory mediators.
Alzheimer's disease is a multifactorial disease that exhibits cognitive deficits, neuronal loss, amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and neuroinflammation in the brain. Hence, a multi-target drug would improve treatment efficacy. We applied a new multi-scale predictive modelling framework that integrates machine learning with biophysics and systems pharmacology to screen drugs for Alzheimer's disease using patients' tissue samples. Our predictive modelling framework identified ibudilast as a drug with repurposing potential to treat Alzheimer's disease. Ibudilast is a multi-target drug, as it is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) antagonist. In addition, we predict that ibudilast inhibits off-target kinases (e.g. IRAK1 and GSG2). In Japan and other Asian countries, ibudilast is approved for treating asthma and stroke due to its anti-inflammatory potential. Based on these previous studies and on our predictions, we tested for the first time the efficacy of ibudilast in Fisher transgenic 344-AD rats. This transgenic rat model is unique as it exhibits hippocampal-dependent spatial learning and memory deficits and Alzheimer's disease pathology, including hippocampal amyloid plaques, tau paired-helical filaments, neuronal loss and microgliosis, in a progressive age-dependent manner that mimics the pathology observed in Alzheimer's disease patients. Following long-term treatment with ibudilast, transgenic rats were evaluated at 11 months of age for spatial memory performance and Alzheimer's disease pathology. We demonstrate that ibudilast-treatment of transgenic rats mitigated hippocampal-dependent spatial memory deficits, as well as hippocampal (hilar subregion) amyloid plaque and tau paired-helical filament load, and microgliosis compared to untreated transgenic rat. Neuronal density analysed across all hippocampal regions was similar in ibudilast-treated transgenic compared to untreated transgenic rats. Interestingly, RNA sequencing analysis of hippocampal tissue showed that ibudilast-treatment affects gene expression levels of the TLR and ubiquitin-proteasome pathways differentially in male and female transgenic rats. Based on the TLR4 signalling pathway, our RNA sequencing data suggest that ibudilast-treatment inhibits IRAK1 activity by increasing expression of its negative regulator IRAK3, and/or by altering TRAF6 and other TLR-related ubiquitin ligase and conjugase levels. Our results support that ibudilast can serve as a repurposed drug that targets multiple pathways including TLR signalling and the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway to reduce cognitive deficits and pathology relevant to Alzheimer's disease.
INTRODUCTION: Methyl-CpG binding protein 2 gene (MECP2) is located on the X chromosome (Xq28) and is important for nervous and immune system functioning. Patients with MECP2 duplication syndrome (MDS) have recurrent respiratory infections (RRIs). Although RRIs often occur with MDS because some patients with MDS also have hypoimmunoglobulinemia and duplication of the interleukin-1-receptor-associated kinase-1 gene (IRAK1), which is also located on Xq28, the phenotype of IRAK1 duplication in patients with MDS remains unclear.METHODS: The clinical course of three patients with MDS who underwent laryngotracheal separation (LTS) at two institutions was summarized.RESULTS: Three patients with MDS were identified to have recurrent pneumonia characteristic of aspiration pneumonia, sometimes requiring artificial ventilation therapy; they had no other bacterial infections. After LTS, they rarely had pneumonia. In MDS, MECP2 expression increased two-fold naturally, while IRAK-1 expression showed no difference compared with a healthy subject.CONCLUSIONS: Since RRIs in MDS are thought to be caused by aspiration and not susceptibility to infection previously estimated to be major complication, the evaluation of aspiration is recommended for RRIs for better management of MDS.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) directly interact with intracellular interleukin receptor associated kinase (IRAK) family members to initialize innate immune and inflammatory responses following activation by pathogen-associated or host-derived elements. Although four IRAK family members [IRAK1, 2, 3 (i.e., IRAK-M), and 4] are involved in TLR and IL-1R signaling pathways, IL-1R > IRAK1 signaling appears to be the most studied pathway, with sufficient evidence to support its central role linking the innate immune response to the pathogenesis of various diseases, including cancers, metabolic disorders, and non-infectious immune disorders. However, IRAK1's involvement in cardiovascular diseases was only recently revealed and the detailed mechanism underling the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases, such as atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, and heart failure (all non-infectious disorders), remains largely unknown with very limited publications to date. This review aims to summarize the overall roles of the IRAK family, especially IRAK1, in mediating the development of cardiovascular diseases.
The interleukin-1 receptor-related kinase 4 (IRAK4), downstream of myd88, plays an essential role in hyperactive TLR signalling seen in some B-cell lymphomas. In particular, efficient IRAK4 inhibitors of activated B-cell subtype of human diffuse large B-Cell lymphoma (DLBCL) are being developed. However, the anticancer effect of IRAK-4 inhibitors in veterinary medicine has not been elucidated. It is therefore explored in this study involving the GL-1 and CL-1 canine lymphoma cell lines in vitro. MyD88 expression was analysed using polymerase chain reaction. GL-1 and CL-1 cells were subjected to concentration- and time-dependent treatment with an IRAK-4 inhibitor and assessed for viability, TLR signalling association and apoptosis using a cell counting Kit-8 assay, Western blotting and flow cytometry. The GL-1 and CL-1 cells exhibited enhanced MyD88 expression, however, canine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (cPBMCs) did not. The IRAK-4 inhibitor reduced cell viability in a dose- and time-dependent manner, significantly reduced the phosphorylation of molecules associated with TLR signalling at IC50 such as IRAK1, IRAK4, NF-κB and STAT3, and induced apoptosis in GL-1 and CL-1 cells. The anticancer effect of the IRAK-4 inhibitor on canine lymphoma cells is mediated by apoptosis via downregulation of TLR signalling.
Previous studies have implicated that the transplantation of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) effectively alleviates systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) primarily due to immunomodulatory effects. However, little is known about the role of hUC-MSC-derived exosomes in SLE. This study is carried out to investigate the modifying effects of hUC-MSC-exosomes on the differentiation and function of immune cells in SLE. hUC-MSC-derived exosomes were extracted from the cultural supernatant of hUC-MSCs by ultrahigh speed centrifugation. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, western blot, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and flow cytometry were performed to estimate the effect of hUC-MSC-derived exosomes on macrophage and regulatory T cell (Treg) polarization. In vivo, hUC-MSC-exosomes were injected intravenously into 28-week-old MRL/lpr mice. We had found that exosomes derived from hUC-MSC restrained the proliferation and inflammation of macrophages in vitro. Besides, MSC-exosomes inhibited CD68+M1 and HLA-DR+M1 but promoted CD206+M2 and CD163+M2 in vitro. Moreover, MRL/lpr mice administrated by intravenous injection of MSC-exosomes had less infiltration of CD14+CD11c+M1 cells but more CD14+CD163+M2 cells as well as Tregs in spleens compared with those in MRL/lpr mice treated by PBS. Additionally, MSC-exosomes could alleviate nephritis, liver and lung injuries of MRL/lpr mice. The survival of lupus mice could be improved after MSC-exosome treatment. This study has suggested that MSC-derived exosomes exert anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects in SLE. MSC-exosomes ameliorate nephritis and other key organ injuries by inducing M2 macrophages and Tregs polarization. As natural nanocarriers, MSC-exosomes may serve as a promising cell-free therapeutic strategy for SLE.Abbreviations: SLE: Systemic lupus erythematosus; hUC-MSCs: Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells; MSCs: Mesenchymal stem cells; qRT-PCR: Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; ELISA: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; Tregs: Regulatory cells; TNF-α: Tumor necrosis factor alfa; IL: Interleukin; COVID-19: Coronavirus disease 2019; pTHP-1: PMA-induced THP-1 macrophages; TEM: Transmission electron microscopy; LPS: Lipopolysaccharide; EVs: Extracellular vesicles; TRAF1: Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 1; IRAK1: Interferon-α-interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1; NF-κB: Nuclear factor-κB; BLyS: B lymphocyte stimulator; APRIL: A proliferation-inducing ligand.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the therapeutic effectiveness of salidroside (Sal) and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) against severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) in a rat model.METHODS: Rat models of SAP were established by retrograde infusion of sodium taurocholate solution. SAP rats were randomly divided into 6 groups: SAP 3 h group, SAP 24 h group, low-dose Sal treatment group (Sal L+S), middle-dose Sal treatment group (Sal M+S), high-dose Sal treatment group (Sal H+S) and PDTC treatment group (PDTC+S). The serum amylase, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels were determined by optical turbidimetry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The expression of Beclin-1, microtubule-associated protein light chain 3II (LC3 II ), lysosome associated membrane protein 2 (LAMP2), interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) inhibitor α of nuclear transcription factor-kB (IkBα), nuclear transcription factor-kB 65 (p65) in the pancreas tissues were detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot, while the pIkBα and p-p65 levels were detected by Western blot. Pathological changes of the pancreas and all the other indexes were observed at 3 and 24 h after operation.RESULTS: The serum IL-10 level, IkBα and LAMP2 levels in Sal M+S, Sal H+S and PDTC+S groups were higher than those in SAP 24 h group, while all the other indexes in these three groups were all lower significantly than those in SAP 24 h group. There was no significant difference in all indexes between Sal H+S and PDTC+S groups.CONCLUSION: High-dose Sal has an effectively therapeutic effect on SAP in rats, which was similar to PDTC.
BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is diagnosed based on the clinical symptoms, risk factors, and pulmonary function tests. Exposure to cigarette smoke (CS), microbial infection stimulates monocytes and macrophages to rapidly synthesise and release inflammatory factors. A previous study of Trollius altaicus (TAF) revealed that it had significant anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidation effects on a pneumonia disease. Based on recent studies of the inflammatory pathway of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), we will explore the influence of TAF on COPD.METHODS: Wistar rats were randomly divided into blank control group, Model Group, low-dose TAF + model group, middle-dose TAF + model group, high-dose TAF + model group, positive control + model group. Except for the blank control group, COPD inflammation models were established in all groups by CS poisoning and LPS. Prior to the daily poisoning, 125 mg/kg, 250 mg/kg, and 500 mg/kg of TAF were administered by gavage in the low-, middle-, and high-dose groups, respectively, and dexamethasone solution (1 mg/kg, once daily) was administered continuously in the positive control group on the last 5 days of modelling. General signs, lung function indices, lung imaging results, complete blood count, lung histopathological changes, inflammatory factors in the alveolar lavage fluid, relative expressions of TLR4, IκB kinase α (IKKα), p65, as well as IL-1β proteins and their mRNA relative expressions were measured and compared between each group.RESULTS: Compared with the blank control group, TAF effectively reduced pulmonary parenchymal oedema (wet-to-dry ratio) and respiratory secretions. It also significantly delayed lung function injury. Lung X-ray imaging and haematoxylin and eosin staining. Blood routine examination results showed that TAF effectively inhibited the increase of white blood cell, lymphocyte, and eosinophil counts, decreased the release of inflammatory cytokines [IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, and transforming growth factor-1β (TGF-1β)] and promoted the release of IL-10. It also inhibited the relative expressions of TLR4, IKKα, p65, IL-1β proteins, as well as IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK-1), IKKɑ, p65, and IL-1β mRNA.CONCLUSIONS: Early intervention of TAF can reduce the occurrence of COPD, reduce the development of inflammation via TLR/NF-κB pathway, and provide reference for further study of the medicinal value of TAF.
Breast cancer (BC) is a common malignant tumor, and circular RNA-trefoil factor 1 (circ-TFF1; hsa_circ_0061825) has been found to be highly expressed in BC tissues and cells and is associated with the poor prognosis of BC patients. However, the interaction between circ-TFF1 and microRNA in BC has not been studied. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to detect the expression of circ-TFF1, miR-129-2-3p, and interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). Through the detection of cell proliferation, migration, invasion, tube formation, and apoptosis, cell function was assessed. The expression levels of angiogenesis-related proteins were detected by western blot. The interaction between miR-129-2-3p and circ-TFF1 or IRAK1 was verified by dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation assay. Xenotransplantation experiments were used to confirm the function of circ-TFF1 in vivo. Circ-TFF1 and IRAK1 were significantly high expressed in BC tissues and cells. Silencing of circ-TFF1 reduced the proliferation, migration, invasion and tube formation, while increased the apoptosis of MDA-MB-361 and SK-Br-3 cells. MiR-129-2-3p was a target of circ-TFF1. Silencing of circ-TFF1 inhibited the malignant behavior of BC cells by releasing miR-129-2-3p. In addition, IRAK1 was a target of miR-129-2-3p. Overexpression of IRAK1 partially restored the inhibitory effect of miR-129-2-3p on cell progression. Animal experiments confirmed the anti-tumor effect of circ-TFF1 knockdown in vivo. Circ-TFF1 regulated the expression of IRAK1 by sponging miR-129-2-3p, thereby, promoting the development of BC. These data provided a novel targeted therapy for BC.
Particulate matter (PM) exposure may cause adverse health effects such as respiratory disorders. We evaluated the protective effects of various Opuntia ficus-indica (OFI) extracts on airway inflammation associated with exposure to PM10D with an aerodynamic diameter <10 μm (PM10) and diesel exhaust particles (DEP). BALB/c mice were exposed to PM10D via intranasal tracheal injection three times over a period of 12 days and various OFI extracts (water, 30% ethanolic, or 50% ethanolic extracts) were administered orally for 12 days. All OFI extracts suppressed neutrophil infiltration and the number of immune cells (CD3+/CD4+, CD3+/CD8+, and Gr-1+/CD11b) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and lungs. OFI extracts decreased the expression of cytokines and chemokines, including chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand (CXCL)-1, interleukin (IL)-17, macrophage inflammatory protein-2, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, cyclooxygenase-2, IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-5, IL-6, transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1, and mucin 5AC, and inhibited IRAK-1, TNF-α, and CXCL-1 localization in BALF and lungs of mice with PM10D-induced airway inflammation. Serum asymmetric and symmetric dimethyl arginine levels were also decreased by OFI extracts treatment. Moreover, all OFI extracts restored histopathological damage in the trachea and lungs of mice with PM10D-induced airway inflammation. These results indicate that OFI extracts may be used to prevent and treat airway inflammation and respiratory diseases.
BACKGROUND: The interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAK) family genes, indispensable mediators of interleukin-1 receptor (IL1R) and Toll-like receptor (TLR)-inflammatory signaling, may be involved in the biological function of human cancers due to the crucial roles of inflammation in tumor development. Though a little research has demonstrated the function of individual IRAK family members in specific tumors, comprehensive analysis is still lacking in pan-cancer.METHODS: We analyzed the mRNA expression landscape, mutation, and prognosis value of IRAK genes based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), cBioPortal, GlioVis, and Rembrandt databases. The correlation between the expression of IRAK genes and tumor microenvironment (TME), Stemness score, and immune subtypes was explored. Western blot, cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration assays, and xenograft models were utilized in this study.RESULTS: We found that the expression of IRAK genes extensively changed and was related to patient survival in pan-cancer. Besides, IRAK family genes were correlated with TME, Stemness score, and immune subtypes in most cases. Given that high expression of all IRAK family members predicted poor prognosis in low-grade glioma (LGG), the oncogenic function of the highest expressed IRAK1 in LGG has been confirmed in vitro and in vivo. IRAK1 was uncovered to inhibit cell apoptosis and augment malignancy of LGG in vitro and in vivo.CONCLUSION: These findings revealed the potential targets of IRAK family genes in pan-cancer and provided insights for further investigation of IRAK1 as a novel oncogenic gene in LGG.
BACKGROUND: Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease. The vulnerable plaque of atherosclerotic can lead to the development of many diseases including acute coronary syndrome and coronary heart disease. It is well known that miR-146a is the key brake miRNA of the inflammatory signal transduction pathway. However, the effect of miR-146a on the stability of atherosclerotic plaque remains to be elucidated.METHODS AND RESULTS: We constructed animal models of atherosclerosis and foam cell models, and overexpressed and knocked-down miR-146a in models. After staining with Hematoxylin-Eosin (HE), Oil Red O, immunocytochemistry (IHC) and Sirius Red, we used the proportion of (Lipids area + Macrophage area) and (SMCs area + collagen area) to evaluate atherosclerotic plaque stability. TUNEL and flow cytometry were performed to detect the apoptosis level of macrophages. Levels of inflammatory factors were detected via ELISA assay. The results showed that miR-146a, IRAK1 and TRAF6 were abnormally expressed in plaques of atherosclerotic animals. Overexpression of miR-146a contributed to the stability of plaques that inhibited plaque formation, macrophage apoptosis and levels of pro-inflammatory factors. The Dual-luciferase reporter gene assay, IF and FISH were used to verify the regulatory mechanism of miR-146a on IRAK1 and TRAF6. We found that IRAK1 and TRAF6 promoted lipid uptake, apoptosis, and release of pro-inflammatory factors of RAW264.7 macrophages, whereas miR-146a restored RAW264.7 macrophages phenotype by inhibiting IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression.CONCLUSIONS: We display for the first time that miR-146a inhibits the formation of foam cells, RAW264.7 macrophage apoptosis and pro-inflammatory reaction through negative regulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression, thereby enhancing the stability of atherosclerotic plaques.
BACKGROUND: Histone deacetylases (HDACs) have been identified to be implicated in the carcinogenesis and cancer progression. The present study was performed to probe into the effect of HDAC4 on radioresistance of esophageal carcinoma (EC).METHODS: The expression of HDAC4 in responders and non-responders to radiotherapy was characterized by RT-qPCR, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot analysis. EC cells were exposed to continuous fractionated X-ray irradiation, and their proliferation and apoptosis were evaluated by means of colony formation assay and flow cytometry based Annexin V-FITC/PI apoptosis assay in response to HDAC4 overexpression or silencing. Mechanistic investigation was conducted by means of in silico analysis and dual-luciferase reporter gene assay. Tumor xenografts derived from radioresistant EC cells were exposed to local X-ray irradiation in vivo for validation.RESULTS: High expression of HDAC4 was detected in either tumor tissues derived from radiotherapy responders or radioresistant EC cells. Loss of HDAC4 contributed to suppressed proliferation and enhanced apoptosis of radioresistant EC cells. Moreover, our findings revealed that HDAC4 conferred radioresistance of EC by downregulating microRNA-146a (miR-146a). Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) was a target of miR-146a, and its knockdown promoted radiosensitivity. Silencing of HDAC4 radiosensitized EC cells both in vitro and in vivo via the miR-146a/IRAK1 axis.CONCLUSION: Hence, loss of HDAC4 upregulated miR-146a to limit radioresistance. This study aids in the better understanding about mechanism responsible for radioresistance of EC.
BACKGROUND: Protein malnutrition remains a severe problem in ruminant production and can increase susceptibility to infection, especially during the growth stage. This study aimed to explore substituting soybean meal with corn on activation of the TLR pathway and potential impact on immune response bias towards Type 1 or Type 2 using growing female goats as experimental animals.METHODS: Twenty-four Xiangdong black goats (initial BW = 19.83 ± 0.53 kg, about 8 ± 0.3 months old) were selected and randomly divided into the corn-soybean meal basal diet group (CON, 10.77% protein) and replacing soybean meal with 100% of corn group (CRS, 5.52% protein). EDTA whole blood and serum samples were collected prior to slaughter for determinations of blood cell counts, anti-inflammatory cytokines and antibodies. The duodenum, jejunum, ileum and colon tissues were collected after formal trial to study the effect of CRS diet on the expression of TLR4 pathway.RESULTS: Our results showed CRS diet did not induce a significant change in immune function, as evidenced by the observations that white blood cell (WBC), neutrophil (Neu), lymphocyte (Lym), monocyte (Mon), eosinophil (Eos), interleukin-4 (IL-4), IL-5, IL-13, immunoglobin G (IgG), IgA, and IgM levels in serum were similar between the two groups. RT-PCR results showed the expression of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) (P < 0.01) and interferon-β (IFN-β) (P < 0.01) were up-regulated in the colon of goats in the CRS group. No differences in the expression of myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) adaptor-like protein (TIRAP), IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor related factor 6 (TRAF6), NF-kappa B (NF-κB), mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MAPK1) or activator protein-1 (AP-1) in the TLR4/MyD88 dependent pathway were observed between the two groups for any of the tested tissue. However, the expression of NF-κB activator (TANK) binding kinase 1 (TBK1) in TLR4/MyD88 independent pathway was up-regulated in the duodenum and colon (P < 0.01), and the expression of interferon regulatory factor-3 (IRF3) was up-regulated (P < 0.01) in colon.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggested that the CRS diet failed to induce a significant change in innate immunity and adaptive immunity in growing goats. However, the up-regulated TBK1 and IRF3 in the colon from the CRS goats suggests that the CRS diet may induce the expression of Th1-type proinflammatory cytokines and inflammatory response through a TLR4-MyD88-independent pathway, and the colon may be the easiest targeted section in the intestinal tract.
Notoginsenoside R1 (NG-R1), the extract and the main ingredient of Panax notoginseng, has anti-inflammatory effects and can be used in treating acute lung injury (ALI). In this study, we explored the pulmonary protective effect and the underlying mechanism of the NG-R1 on rats with ALI induced by severe acute pancreatitis (SAP). MiR-128-2-5p, ERK1, Tollip, HMGB1, TLR4, IκB, and NF-κB mRNA expression levels were measured using real-time qPCR, and TLR4, Tollip, HMGB1, IRAK1, MyD88, ERK1, NF-κB65, and P-IκB-α protein expression levels using Western blot. The NF-κB and the TLR4 activities were determined using immunohistochemistry, and TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, and ICAM-1 levels in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) using ELISA. Lung histopathological changes were observed in each group. NG-R1 treatment reduced miR-128-2-5p expression in the lung tissue, increased Tollip expression, inhibited HMGB1, TLR4, TRAF6, IRAK1, MyD88, NF-κB65, and p-IκB-α expression levels, suppressed NF-κB65 and the TLR4 expression levels, reduced MPO activity, reduced TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and ICAM-1 levels in BALF, and alleviated SAP-induced ALI. NG-R1 can attenuate SAP-induced ALI. The mechanism of action may be due to a decreased expression of miR-128-2-5p, increased activity of the Tollip signaling pathway, decreased activity of HMGB1/TLR4 and ERK1 signaling pathways, and decreased inflammatory response to SAP-induced ALI. Tollip was the regulatory target of miR-128-2-5p.
Legionella pneumophila is an intracellular bacterial pathogen that can cause a severe form of pneumonia in humans, a phenotype evolved through interactions with aquatic protozoa in the environment. Here, we show that L. pneumophila uses extracellular vesicles to translocate bacterial small RNAs (sRNAs) into host cells that act on host defence signalling pathways. The bacterial sRNA RsmY binds to the UTR of ddx58 (RIG-I encoding gene) and cRel, while tRNA-Phe binds ddx58 and irak1 collectively reducing expression of RIG-I, IRAK1 and cRel, with subsequent downregulation of IFN-β. Thus, RsmY and tRNA-Phe are bacterial trans-kingdom regulatory RNAs downregulating selected sensor and regulator proteins of the host cell innate immune response. This miRNA-like regulation of the expression of key sensors and regulators of immunity is a feature of L. pneumophila host-pathogen communication and likely represents a general mechanism employed by bacteria that interact with eukaryotic hosts.
OBJECTIVES: Little is known about genes predisposing to systemic bone loss (SBL) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Therefore, we examined the association between SBL and variants of genes playing a critical role in both immune response and bone homeostasis among patients with RA.METHODS: IRAK-1 rs3027898, IRAK-2 rs3844283, IRAK-2 rs708035, IFIH1 rs1990760, CD40 rs48104850, TNFAIP3 rs2230926, and miR146-a rs2910164 were genotyped in 176 adult RA patients. Bone mineral density (BMD) was measured using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA).RESULTS: Low BMD was observed in 116 (65.9%) patients. Among them, 60 (34.1%) had low femoral neck (FN) Z score, 72 (40.9%) had low total femur (TF) Z score, and 105 (59.6%) had low lumbar spine (LS) Z score. Among all the SNPs assessed, only CD40 rs4810485 was found to be associated with reduced TF Z score with the CD40 rs4810485 T allele protecting against reduced TF Z score (OR = 0.40, 95% CI = 0.23-0.68, p = 0.0005). This association was confirmed in the multivariate logistic regression analysis (OR = 0.31, 95% CI = 0.16-0.59, p = 3.84 × 10-4). Moreover, median FN BMD was reduced among RA patients with CD40 rs4810485 GG genotype compared to RA patients harbouring CD40 rs4810485 TT and GT genotypes (0.788 ± 0.136 versus 0.826 ± 0.146 g/cm2, p = 0.001). IRAK-1 rs3027898, IRAK-2 rs3844283, rs708035, IFIH rs1990760, TNFAIP3 rs2230926, and miR146-a rs2910164 were not found to be associated with SBL.CONCLUSION: This study for the first time ever demonstrated an association between a CD40 genetic variant and SBL among patients with RA.KEY POINTS: • CD40 rs4810485 GG genotype is associated with decreased BMD among patients with RA. • CD40 rs4810485 might serve as a genetic marker for SBL in RA. • CD40 genetic variations might be integrated in future development of more effective therapeutic interventions for prevention of SBL in RA.
Rett syndrome (RTT), a devastating neurodevelopmental disorder, is caused in 95% of the cases by mutations in the X-chromosome-localized MECP2 gene. To date, RTT is considered a broad-spectrum disease, due to multisystem disturbances affecting patients, associated with mitochondrial dysfunctions, subclinical inflammation and an overall OxInflammatory status. Inflammasomes are multi-protein complexes crucially involved in innate immune responses against pathogens and oxidative stress mediators. The assembly of NLRP3:ASC inflammasome lead to pro-caspase 1 activation, maturation of interleukins (IL)-1β and 18 and proteolytic cleavage of Gasdermin D leading eventually to pyroptosis and systemic inflammation. The possible de-regulation of this system, in parallel with upstream nuclear factor (NF)-κB p65 pathway, were analyzed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and plasma isolated from RTT patients and matching controls. RTT PBMCs showed a constitutive activation of the axis TLR4 (Toll-like receptor 4)-IRAK1 (interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1)-NF-κB p65, together with augmented ROS generation and enhanced IL-18 mRNA levels and NLRP3:ASC co-localization. The deregulation of inflammasome components was even found in THP-1 cells silenced for MECP2 and importantly, in plasma compartment of RTT subjects, from the earliest stages of the pathology or in correlation with the severity of MeCP2 mutations. Taken together, these data provide new insights into the mechanisms involved in RTT sub-clinical inflammatory status present in RTT patients, thus helping to reveal new targets for future therapeutic approaches.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a common vascular complication of diabetes. Endothelial adhesion molecules are involved in physiopathology of DN. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and c-Myc participate in inflammation in DN. We hypothesized c-Myc modulates IRAK1 expression, contributing to hyperglycemia-mediated endothelial inflammation. The expression of endothelial adhesion molecules and IRAK1 were increased in glomerular endothelium of DN patients and rats. Our cellular experiments indicated high glucose-induced endothelial cell inflammation was inhibited by si-IRAK1. Additionally, high glucose increased c-Myc expression. si-c-Myc inhibited high glucose-mediated increase of IRAK1 levels and endothelial cell inflammation. c-Myc overexpression-mediated endothelial cell inflammation was counteracted by si-IRAK1. c-Myc also interacted with lysine methyltransferase 5A (KMT5A). Furthermore, high glucose decreased KMT5A expression and histone H4 lysine 20 methylation (H4K20me1). KMT5A upregulation decreased high glucose-mediated increase of IRAK1 levels as well as endothelial inflammation. KMT5A silencing-mediated endothelial inflammation was reversed by si-IRAK1. Mechanistic research indicated that c-Myc and H4K20me1 occupied IRAK1 promoter region. KMT5A silencing augmented the active action of c-Myc on IRAK1 levels. Our in vivo experiments represented KMT5A is downregulated and c-Myc is upregulated in DN patients and rats. KMT5A interacts with c-Myc to modulate IRAK1 expression, thus contributing to hyperglycemia-mediated endothelial inflammation in DN.
Erratum for    Cell Death Dis. 2019 Jan 25;10(2):61.
M2-polarization and the tumoricidal to tumor-promoting transition are commonly observed with tumor-infiltrating macrophages after interplay with cancer cells or/and other stroma cells. Our previous study indicated that macrophage M2-polarization can be induced by extracellular HSP90α (eHSP90α) secreted from endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition-derived cancer-associated fibroblasts. To extend the finding, we herein validated that eHSP90α-induced M2-polarized macrophages exhibited a tumor-promoting activity and the promoted tumor tissues had significant increases in microvascular density but decreases in CD4+ T-cell level. We further investigated the signaling pathways occurring in eHSP90α-stimulated macrophages. When macrophages were exposed to eHSP90α, CD91 and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) functioned as the receptor/co-receptor for eHSP90α binding to recruit interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) and myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), and next elicited a canonical CD91/MyD88-IRAK1/4-IκB kinase α/β (IKKα/β)-nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)/interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) signaling pathway. Despite TLR4-MyD88 complex-associated activations of IKKα/β, NF-κB and IRF3 being well-known as involved in macrophage M1-activation, our results demonstrated that the CD91-TLR4-MyD88 complex-associated IRAK1/4-IKKα/β-NF-κB/IRF3 pathway was not only directly involved in M2-associated CD163, CD204, and IL-10 gene expressions but also required for downregulation of M1 inflammatory cytokines. Additionally, Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2) were recruited onto MyD88 to induce the phosphorylation and activation of the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT-3). The JAK2/TYK2-STAT-3 signaling is known to associate with tumor promotion. In this study, the MyD88-JAK2/TYK2-STAT-3 pathway was demonstrated to contribute to eHSP90α-induced macrophage M2-polarization by regulating the expressions of M1- and M2-related genes, proangiogenic protein vascular endothelial growth factor, and phagocytosis-interfering factor Sec22b.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Alpinia calcarata (Haw.) Roscoe rhizomes are used to treat diabetes, rheumatism, gastrointestinal problems, inflammatory diseases, cough and respiratory problems in traditional practices. The primary objective of the study is to identify and isolate anti-inflammatory bioactive compounds from A.calcarata rhizomes and to assess its molecular mechanism.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The bioassay-guided fractionation of methanolic extract of A. calcarata rhizomes yielded chloroform fraction as the effective fraction and galangin as the bioactive compound identified by NMR studies. The anti-inflammatory action of galangin was evaluated by determining NO and cytokine production in LPS stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Further, its mechanism was studied on the expression levels of mRNA and protein targets by qPCR and Western blot analysis.RESULTS: Based on the MTT assay, the concentration of 3.1-25 μM of galangin was selected for further studies. Galangin reduced the levels of NO and proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6) production in LPS induced RAW 264.7 cells in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, the qPCR analysis revealed a reduction in the mRNA expression levels of COX-2, IRAK 1 and JAK 1 in galangin treated LPS stimulated RAW 264.7 cells in a dose-dependent manner. Western blot analysis implicated that galangin has markedly reduced the protein expression levels of cell signaling regulators (JAK-1, IRAK-1, MyD88, MAPK (p38 and ERK) and NF-κB p65).CONCLUSION: From the results, it is evident that the inhibition of these cell signaling regulators has contributed to the anti-inflammatory effects of galangin. To our knowledge, we are the first to report IRAK-1 and JAK-1 as therapeutic targets of galangin for its anti-inflammatory effect.
Leukemia stem cells (LSCs) in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) are quiescent, insensitive to BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and responsible for CML relapse. Therefore, eradicating quiescent CML LSCs is a major goal in CML therapy. Here, using a G0 marker (G0M), we narrow down CML LSCs as G0M- and CD27- double positive cells among the conventional CML LSCs. Whole transcriptome analysis reveals NF-κB activation via inflammatory signals in imatinib-insensitive quiescent CML LSCs. Blocking NF-κB signals by inhibitors of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1/4 (IRAK1/4 inhibitors) together with imatinib eliminates mouse and human CML LSCs. Intriguingly, IRAK1/4 inhibitors attenuate PD-L1 expression on CML LSCs, and blocking PD-L1 together with imatinib also effectively eliminates CML LSCs in the presence of T cell immunity. Thus, IRAK1/4 inhibitors can eliminate CML LSCs through inhibiting NF-κB activity and reducing PD-L1 expression. Collectively, the combination of TKIs and IRAK1/4 inhibitors is an attractive strategy to achieve a radical cure of CML.
The Toll-like receptor (TLR) family signature has been linked to the etiopathology of atopic dermatitis (AD), a chronic inflammatory skin disease associated with skin barrier dysfunction and immune system imbalance. We aimed to investigate whether osthole (a plant-derived compound) can inhibit the genetic profile of key genes associated with TLR2 signaling (TIRAP, MyD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, IκBα, NFκB) after stimulation with LPS or histamine in a 3D in vitro model of AD. Overexpression of the aforementioned genes may directly increase the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines (CKs) and chemokines (ChKs), which may exacerbate the symptoms of AD. Relative gene expressions were quantified by qPCR and secretion of CKs and ChKs was evaluated by ELISA assay. LPS and histamine increased the relative expression of genes related to the TLR2 pathway, and osthole successfully reduced it. In summary, our results show that osthole inhibits the expression of genes associated with the TLR signaling pathway in a skin model of AD. Moreover, the secretion of CKs and ChKs after treatment of AD with osthole in a 3D skin model in vitro suggests the potential of osthole as a novel compound for the treatment of AD.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are a major regulator in the development of endometrial cancer (EC). It was indicated that TAMs could crosstalk with cancer cells via transferring exosomes which carrying microRNAs (miRNAs). Firstly, we found that TAMs could promote the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of EC cells and inhibit its apoptosis. Next, we further found that TAMs regulated the EMT and apoptosis of EC cells through transferring exosomes into EC cells. Then, lowly expressed miR-192-5p in TAMs-derived exosomes was proved. Moreover, our data demonstrated that upregulation of miR-192-5p in TAMs-derived exosomes could significantly promote the apoptosis of EC cells and impede its EMT. IRAK1 was proved to be a downstream target of miR-192-5p. Importantly, we indicated that miR-192-5p-overexpressed TAMs-derived exosomes regulated the EC cells apoptosis and EMT through inhibiting IRAK1/NF-κB signaling pathway. In addition, we also revealed that overexpression of miR-192-5p in TAMs-derived exosomes obviously limits the growth of tumors. Overall, in TAMs-derived exosomes, our data demonstrated that overexpression of miR-192-5p could effectively suppress the progression of EC. Our data provid a new target for EC treatment.
BACKGROUND: Brucellosis is a major zoonosis all over the world. MicroRNAs are significant gene expression regulators and could be involved during the infections and also genetic alterations in the miRNAs sequence can affect primary miRNAs and precursor miRNAs processing and thus alter miRNAs expression. Current research studied the impact of the miR-146a polymorphism on miR-146a, TRAF-6, and IRAK-1 genes expression in patients with brucellosis illness.METHODS AND RESULTS: In this research, 25 patients with brucellosis and 25 healthy participants with determined genotypes for miR-SNP rs2910164 and miR-SNP rs57095329 were recruited. IRAK-1, TRAF-6, and miR-146a expressions in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were specified by quantitative real- time PCR (qRT-PCR). Moreover, interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and tumor necrosis factor- alpha (TNF-α) serum levels were assessed by a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique. There was no significant difference in the expression level of miR-146a, IRAK-1, and TRAF-6, among the patients with brucellosis and control group. TRAF-6 PBMCs expression levels in the distinctive genotypes of rs2910164 were significantly observed in patients (P = 0.048). No significant distinctions were found in miR-146a, IRAK-1, and TRAF-6 expression levels and among the rs57095329 different genotypes in brucellosis patients and controls. Meanwhile, no significant relationship was found between the rs2910164 and rs57095329 genotypes and the serum level of cytokines mentioned between the two groups. We did not find any association between expression of TRAF-6, miR-146a, and IRAK-1 in PBMCs, and cytokines serum levels with two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miR-146a.CONCLUSIONS: To the best of writers' knowledge, this research is the first one evaluating the probable link between the miR-146a rs2910164 and rs57095329 variant with miRNAs, relevant cytokine levels, and target genes in brucellosis.
Escherichia coli is the most common gram-negative pathogenic bacterium causing meningitis. It penetrates the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and activates nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling, which are vital events leading to the development of meningitis. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been implicated in regulating neuroinflammatory signaling, and our previous study showed that E. coli can induce differential expression of lncRNAs, including lncC11orf54-1, in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (hBMECs). The hBMECs constitute the structural and functional basis for the BBB, however, it is unclear whether lncRNAs are involved in the regulation of inflammatory responses of hBMECs during meningitic E. coli infection. In this study, we characterized an abundantly expressed lncRNA, lncC11orf54-1, which was degraded by translocated coilin to produce mgU2-19 and mgU2-30 in hBMECs during E. coli infection. Functionally, lncC11orf54-1-originated non-coding RNA mgU2-30 interacted with interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) to induce its oligomerization and autophosphorylation, thus promoting the activation of NF-κB signaling and facilitating the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In summary, our study uncovers the involvement of lncC11orf54-1 in IRAK1-NF-κB signaling, and it functions as a positive regulator of inflammatory responses in meningitic E. coli-induced neuroinflammation, which may be a valuable therapeutic and diagnostic target for bacterial meningitis.
Inflammation associated endothelial dysfunction represents a pivotal contributor to atherosclerosis. Increasingly, evidence has demonstrated that interleukin 1 receptor (IL1-R) / toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling participates in the development of atherosclerosis. Recent large-scale clinical trials have supported the therapeutic potential of anti-inflammatory therapies targeting IL-1β and IL-6 in reducing atherosclerosis. The present study examined the pharmacological effects of IL-1R-associated kinase 1 and 4 inhibitors (IRAK1/4i) in regulating inflammation of the endothelium and atherosclerosis. We demonstrate that dual pharmacological inhibition of IRAK1 and IRAK4 by an IRAK1/4i is more effective against LPS induced endothelial inflammation, compared with IRAK1 inhibitor or IRAK4 inhibitor monotherapy. IRAK1/4i showed little endothelial cell toxicity at concentrations from 1 μM up to 10 μM. Inhibition of IRAK1/4 reduced endothelial activation induced by LPS in vitro as evidenced by attenuated monocyte adhesion to the endothelium. Mechanistically, blockade of IRAK1/4 ameliorated the transcriptional activity of NF-κB. To assess the pharmacological effects of IRAK1/4i on atherosclerosis in vivo, ApoE-/- mice were orally administered IRAK1/4i (20 mg/kg/d) for 8 weeks. We show that IRAK1/4i reduced atherosclerotic lesion size in the aortic sinus and increased hepatic LDLR protein levels as well as lowered LDL-C level, without affecting other lipid parameters or glucose tolerance. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that dual pharmacological inhibition of IRAK1 and IRAK4 attenuates endothelial inflammation, lowers LDL-C levels and reduces atherosclerosis. Our study reinforces the evolving standing of anti-inflammatory approaches in cardiovascular therapeutics.
This study aimed to elucidate the interactions between osteosarcoma (OS) and M1 macrophages infiltrated into the tumor microenvironment and to explore the underlying mechanisms whereby M1 macrophages influence the growth of OS, so that novel treatments of OS can be developed. A transwell co-culture system, an indirect conditioned medium culture system and two orthotopic bearing OS models were established to assess for the interplay between M1 macrophages and OS. We found that the co-culture of M1 macrophages with OS cells significantly inhibited the growth of the tumor cells by inducing apoptosis. Furthermore, HSPA1L secreted by M1 macrophages exerted this anti-tumor effect through the IRAK1 and IRAK4 pathways. LGALS3BP secreted by OS cells bound to the ligand LGALS3 on M1 macrophages and thereby induced the secretion of Hspa11 via Akt phosphorylation. In vivo experiments demonstrated that the culture supernatant of OS-stimulated M1 macrophages significantly inhibited the growth of OS, whereas silencing Lgals3bp promoted the progression of OS. In conclusion, OS modifies the phenotype of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and thereby influences the apoptosis of OS cells through soluble factors. The modulation of TAMs may be a promising and effective therapeutic approach in OS.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a common autoimmune disease with high incidence in females. The pathogenesis of SLE is complex, and healing SLE has become a serious challenge for clinical treatment. Aberrant expression of miR-301a-3p involves the progressions of multiple diseases, and some studies have indicated that increased miR-301a-3p could induce the inflammatory injury of some organs. However, the role and molecular mechanism of miR-301a-3p in SLE remain unclear. In this study, the miR-301a-3p levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of the patients with SLE and health subjects were measured with qRT-PCR. The ELISA assay was used to investigate the effect of miR-301a-3p on the levels of inflammatory factors in PBMCs, and flow cytometry assays were used to observe the effect of miR-301a-3p on the levels of CD4+ T cells and Th17 cells in PBMCs. Moreover, TargetScan, dual-luciferase reporter assay, and western blot were used to reveal the downstream targets and regulation mechanism of miR-301a-3p in SLE. The results showed that miR-301a-3p was significantly upregulated in PBMCs of the SLE patients, and increased miR-301a-3p could boost the expression of IL-6, IL-17, and INF-γ in PBMCs and promote the differentiation of Th17 cells. It was found that PELI1 was a target of miR-301a-3p, and PELI1 upregulation could effectively reverse the effect of miR-301a-3p on PBMCs. Besides, this study also found that miR-301a-3p could promote the expression of IRAK1 to involve the progression of SLE via targeting PELI1. In conclusion, this study suggests that increased miR-301a-3p serves as a pathogenic factor in SLE to promote IRAK1-mediated differentiation of Th17 cells via targeting PELI1.
PURPOSE: Our purpose was to investigate the role of recombinant protein flagellin A N/C (FlaA N/C) protein-mediated pyroptosis inhibition and related miRNA in radiation protection.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Mice received 10 Gy irradiation after FlaA N/C pretreatment, IRAK-1/4 Inhibitor I treatment, or pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate treatment. Human intestinal epithelial cells (HIEC) received 10 Gy irradiation after FlaA N/C pretreatment, overexpressed miR-142a-3p with miR-142a-3p mimics, or inhibited miR-142a-3p with miR-142a-3p inhibitor. Mouse & Rat miRNA OneArray determined the change in relevant miRNA after FlaA N/C pretreatment; real-time polymerase chain reaction detected IRAK1 and miR-142a-3p expression; a CCK-8 assay evaluated cell viability; LDH release analyzed cytotoxicity; caspase-1 activity assay, interleukin-1β level, and flow cytometry analyzed pyroptosis in cells; hematoxylin-eosin staining evaluated the damage to intestinal tissue; CO-IP detected the inflammation activation; immunohistochemistry, Western blot analysis, and immunofluorescence analyzed activation of pyroptosis-related proteins and the activation of NF-kB signaling pathways; and luciferase reporter assay and fluorescence in situ hybridization detected the interaction between miR-142a-3p and IRAK1.RESULTS: FlaA N/C reduced radiation-induced pyroptosis in vivo and in vitro, and miR-142a-3p expression increased after FlaA N/C pretreatment. Upregulating the expression of miR-142a-3p inhibited radiation-induced pyroptosis in HIEC, and downregulating the expression of miR-142a-3p led to radiation-induced pyroptosis in HIEC after FlaA N/C pretreatment. IRAK1 was a direct target of miR-142a-3p and played an important role in radiation-induced pyroptosis in HIEC. Inhibiting IRAK1 reduced radiation-mediated pyroptosis in mice intestines. miR-142a-3p downregulated IRAK1 and suppressed the NF-kB pathway. Inhibiting the NF-kB signaling pathway can reduce radiation-mediated pyroptosis in mice intestines.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicated this new radioprotectant protein regulates miR-142a-3p, effectively inhibiting radiation-induced pyroptosis mediated by the IRAK1/NF-κB signaling pathway in intestinal cells.
BACKGROUND: Stem Cell leukemia/lymphoma syndrome (SCLL) presents as a myeloproliferative disease which can progress to acute myeloid leukemia and is associated with the coincident development of B-cell and T-cell lymphomas. SCLL is driven by the constitutive activation of fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 (FGFR1) as a result of chromosome translocations with poor outcome. Mouse models have been developed which faithfully recapitulate the human disease and have been used to characterize the molecular genetic events that are associated with development and progression of the disease.METHODS: CRISPR/Cas9 approaches were used to generate SCLL cells null for Interleukin receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and interferon gamma (IFNG) which were introduced into syngeneic hosts through tail vein injection. Development of the disease and changes in immune cell composition and activity were monitored using flow cytometry. Bead-based immunoassays were used to compare the cytokine and chemokine profiles of control and knock out (KO) cells. Antibody mediated, targeted depletion of T cell and MDSCs were performed to evaluate their role in antitumor immune responses.RESULTS: In SCLL, FGFR1 activation silences miR-146b-5p through DNMT1-mediated promoter methylation, which derepresses the downstream target IRAK1. IRAK1 KO SCLL cells were xenografted into immunocompetent syngeneic mice where the typical rapid progression of disease was lost and the mice remained disease free. IRAK1 in this system has no effect on cell cycle progression or apoptosis and robust growth of the KO cells in immunodeficient mice suggested an effect on immune surveillance. Depletion of T-cells in immunocompetent mice restored leukemogenesis of the KO cells, and tumor killing assays confirmed the role of T cells in tumor clearance. Analysis of the immune cell profile in mice transplanted with the IRAK1 expressing mock control (MC) cells shows that there is an increase in levels of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) with a concomitant decrease in CD4+/CD8+ T-cell levels. MDSC suppression assays and depletion experiments showed that these MDSCs were responsible for suppression of the T cell mediated leukemia cell elimination. Immuno-profiling of a panel of secreted cytokines and chemokines showed that activation of IFN-γ is specifically impaired in the KO cells. In vitro and in vivo expression assays and engraftment with interferon gamma receptor-1 (IFNGR1) null mice and IFNG KO SCLL cells, showed the leukemia cells produced IFN-γ directly participating in the induction of MDSCs to establish immune evasion. Inhibition of IRAK1 using pacritinib suppresses leukemogenesis with impaired induction of MDSCs and attenuated suppression of CD4+/CD8+ T-cells.CONCLUSIONS: IRAK1 orchestrates a previously unknown FGFR1-directed immune escape mechanism in SCLL, through induction of MDSCs via regulation of IFN-γ signaling from leukemia cells, and targeting IRAK1 may provide a means of suppressing tumor growth in this syndrome by restoring immune surveillance.
Activation of antigen-presenting cells (APCs) is crucial in initiating inflammation and alloreaction during acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD), a common life-threatening complication of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT). IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) regulates the activation of APCs in inflammatory settings, and inhibition of IRAK1 might decrease APC activation and aGVHD. This study was conducted to explore the impact of IRAK1 inhibition on APC activation and aGVHD in mice. We administered a selective IRAK1 inhibitor, Jh-X-119-01, to recipient mice undergoing allo-HCT or co-challenged by A20 lymphoma cells. We assessed aGVHD and the graft-versus-lymphoma (GVL) effect. T cell and APC activations were analyzed as well. Jh-X-119-01 was associated with increased survival and decreased aGVHD of recipients. Jh-X-119-01 decreased the proportions of Th1 cells and Tc1 cells in the aGVHD model and in the in vitro mixed lymphocyte reaction. The IRAK1 inhibitor reduced production of TNFα and IFNγ in macrophages of recipient mice. In in vitro cultured bone marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs), Jh-X-119-01 decreased productions of inflammatory cytokines, reduced expression levels of CD80 and CD86, and decreased protein levels of antiapoptotic Bcl2 and phosphorylated NF-κB p65. RNA-seq analysis showed that Jh-X-119-01 had an impact on several pathophysiologic processes of BMDCs, including reduction of GVHD-related genes and regulation of helper T cell differentiation. Importantly, IRAK1 inhibition did not impair cytotoxic function of T cells or the allo-HCT-related GVL effect against A20 lymphoma cells. In addition, the IRAK1 inhibitor did not retard recovery of hematopoietic cells in blood or bone marrow. Our findings show that selective IRAK1 inhibition ameliorates murine aGVHD but preserves the GVL effect. Our findings may have implications for the use of an IRAK1 inhibitor in allo-HCT.
Extracellular miRNAs (ex-miRNAs) mediate intercellular communication and play a role in diverse physiological and pathological processes. Using small RNA sequencing, we identify that miRNAs are the most abundant RNA species in the plasma and differentially expressed in murine and human sepsis, such as miR-146a-5p. Exogenous miR-146a-5p, but not its duplex precursor, induces a strong immunostimulatory response through a newly identified UU-containing motif and TLR7 activation, and an immunotolerance by rapid IRAK-1 protein degradation via TLR7→MyD88 signaling and proteasome activation, whereas its duplex precursor acts by targeting 3' UTR of Irak-1 gene via Ago2 binding. miR-146a knockout in mice offers protection against sepsis with attenuated interleukin-6 (IL-6) storm and organ injury, improved cardiac function, and better survival. In septic patients, the plasma miR-146a-5p concentrations are closely associated with the two sepsis outcome predictors, blood lactate and coagulopathy. These data demonstrate the importance of extracellular miR-146a-5p in innate immune regulation and sepsis pathogenesis.
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the urgent need for the identification of new antiviral drug therapies for a variety of diseases. COVID-19 is caused by infection with the human coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, while other related human coronaviruses cause diseases ranging from severe respiratory infections to the common cold. We developed a computational approach to identify new antiviral drug targets and repurpose clinically-relevant drug compounds for the treatment of a range of human coronavirus diseases. Our approach is based on graph convolutional networks (GCN) and involves multiscale host-virus interactome analysis coupled to off-target drug predictions. Cell-based experimental assessment reveals several clinically-relevant drug repurposing candidates predicted by the in silico analyses to have antiviral activity against human coronavirus infection. In particular, we identify the MET inhibitor capmatinib as having potent and broad antiviral activity against several coronaviruses in a MET-independent manner, as well as novel roles for host cell proteins such as IRAK1/4 in supporting human coronavirus infection, which can inform further drug discovery studies.
Signaling by Toll-Like Receptors and the Interleukin-1 Receptor (IL1-R) involves intracellular binding of MyD88, followed by assembly of IL1-R Associated Kinases (IRAKs) into the so-called Myddosome. Using NMR, Nechama et al. determined the structure of the IRAK-M death domain monomer (PDBid: 5UKE). With this structure, they performed a docking study to model the location of IRAK-M in the Myddosome. Based on this, they present a molecular basis for selectivity of IRAK-M towards IRAK1 over IRAK2 binding. When we attempted to use 5UKE as a homology modeling template, we noticed that our 5UKE-based models had structural issues, such as disallowed torsion angles and solvent exposed tryptophans. We therefore analyzed the NMR ensemble of 5UKE using structure validation tools and we compared 5UKE with homologous high-resolution X-ray structures. We identified several structural anomalies in 5UKE, including packing issues, frayed helices and improbable side chain conformations. We used Yasara to build a homology model, based on two high resolution death domain crystal structures, as an alternative model for the IRAK-M death domain (atomic coordinates, modeling details and validation are available at https://swift.cmbi.umcn.nl/gv/service/5uke/). Our model agrees better with known death domain structure information than 5UKE and also with the chemical shift data that was deposited for 5UKE.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC) include heterogeneous group of tumors, classified according to their anatomical site. It is the sixth most prevalent cancer globally. Among South Asian countries, India accounts for 40% of HNC malignancies with significant morbidity and mortality. In the present study, we have performed exome sequencing and analysis of 51 Head and Neck squamous cell carcinoma samples. Besides known mutations in the oncogenes and tumour suppressors, we have identified novel gene signatures differentiating buccal, alveolar, and tongue cancers. Around 50% of the patients showed mutation in tumour suppressor genes TP53 and TP63. Apart from the known mutations, we report novel mutations in the genes AKT1, SPECC1, and LRP1B, which are linked with tumour progression and patient survival. A highly curated process was developed to identify survival signatures. 36 survival-related genes were identified based on the correlation of functional impact of variants identified using exome-seq with gene expression from transcriptome data (GEPIA database) and survival. An independent LASSO regression analysis was also performed. Survival signatures common to both the methods led to identification of 4 dead and 3 alive gene signatures, the accuracy of which was confirmed by performing a ROC analysis (AUC=0.79 and 0.91, respectively). Also, machine learning-based driver gene prediction tool resulted in the identification of IRAK1 as the driver (p-value = 9.7 e-08) and also as an actionable mutation. Modelling of the IRAK1 mutation showed a decrease in its binding to known IRAK1 inhibitors.
Osteoarthritis (OA), a highly prevalent chronic joint disease, involves a complex network of inflammatory mediators that not only triggers pain and cartilage degeneration but also accelerates disease progression. Traditional Chinese medicinal shenjinhuoxue mixture (SHM) shows anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects against OA with remarkable clinical efficacy. This study explored the mechanism underlying anti-OA properties of SHM and evaluated its efficacy and safety via in vivo experiments. Through network pharmacology and published literature, we identified the key active phytochemicals in SHM, including β-sitosterol, oleanolic acid, licochalcone A, quercetin, isorhamnetin, kaempferol, morusin, lupeol, and pinocembrin; the pivotal targets of which are TLR-4 and NF-κB, eliciting anti-OA activity. These phytochemicals can enter the active pockets of TLR-4 and NF-κB with docking score ≤ -3.86 kcal/mol, as shown in molecular docking models. By using surface plasmon resonance assay, licochalcone A and oleanolic acid were found to have good TLR-4-binding affinity. In OA rats, oral SHM at mid and high doses (8.72 g/kg and 26.2 g/kg) over 6 weeks significantly alleviated mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia (P < 0.0001). Accordingly, the expression of inflammatory mediators (TLR-4, interleukin (IL-) 1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), NF-κB-p65, tumor necrosis factor (TNF-) α, IL-6, and IL-1β), receptor activator of the NF-κB ligand (RANKL), and transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) in the synovial and cartilage tissue of OA rats was significantly decreased (P < 0.05). Moreover, pathological observation illustrated amelioration of cartilage degeneration and joint injury. In chronic toxicity experiment of rats, SHM at 60 mg/kg demonstrated the safety. SHM had an anti-inflammatory effect through a synergistic combination of active phytochemicals to attenuate pain and cartilage degeneration by inhibiting TLR-4 and NF-κB activation. This study provided the experimental foundation for the development of SHM into a more effective dosage form or new drugs for OA treatment.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are involved in the progression of various diseases, including lupus nephritis. Hsa_circ_0010957 is reported to be dysregulated in lupus nephritis, but the exact function of this circRNA is unknown. This research aims to study the function and mechanism of circRNA hsa_circ_0010957 in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cellular model of lupus nephritis. Human renal proximal tubular cell line HK2 cells were challenged by LPS. Hsa_circ_0010957, microRNA-1224-5p (miR-1224-5p), and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) abundances were examined by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction or western blot. LPS-induced damage was evaluated via cell viability, apoptosis, inflammatory response and oxidative injury. The target interaction was analyzed by dual-luciferase reporter analysis and RNA immunoprecipitation. Hsa_circ_0010957 abundance was enhanced in LPS-challenged HK2 cells. Hsa_circ_0010957 knockdown alleviated LPS-induced apoptosis, the inflammatory response and oxidative injury in HK2 cells. MiR-1224-5p was targeted by hsa_circ_0010957, and miR-1224-5p knockdown reversed the influence of hsa_circ_0010957 silence on LPS-induced injury. IRAK1 was targeted via miR-1224-5p, and hsa_circ_0010957 could regulate IRAK1 by miR-1224-5p. MiR-1224-5p overexpression could mitigate LPS-induced apoptosis, the inflammatory response and oxidative injury, and this effect was abolished by IRAK1. Hsa_circ_0010957 silence weakened LPS-induced HK2 cell apoptosis, the inflammatory response and oxidative injury via regulating the miR-1224-5p/IRAK1 axis.
Background: Chemotherapeutic drugs are associated with toxic effects. Metastasis is the leading cause of death in breast cancer patients. Aim: To evaluate the antitumor effect of paclitaxel (PTX) combined with psoralen-loaded polymeric lipid nanoparticles (PSO-PLNs) in triple-negative breast cancer. Methods: After treatment of samples, cell viability, apoptosis, migration, invasion, expression of proteins in the IRAK1/NF-κB/FAK signal pathway, biodistribution and pathological characteristics were detected. Results: Compared with the control group, the PTX + PSO-PLNs group showed increased apoptosis and reduced migration, invasion and expression of phosphorylated IRAK1 and NF-κB, with significant inhibition of tumor growth and lung metastases and no obvious toxicity. Conclusion: Combined administration of PTX and PSO-PLNs exerted a synergistic effect and significantly inhibited the growth and metastasis of triple-negative breast cancer.
Sepsis is a systemic infection mainly caused by bacterial infections. Despite all efforts and advances in the treatment of sepsis, it is still considered one of the leading causes of death in hospitalized patients. Today, we have to use novel therapies and one of the most important is cell-free therapy. Exosomes have been shown to contain the contents of their parent cells and that they do not generate an immune response between different individuals which makes them a good candidate for transplantation. Unrestricted somatic stem cells (USSC), also known as mesenchymal stem cell progenitors due to their high proliferative capacity and low immune response, may be a novel therapy for sepsis. In this study, the effect of USSC-derived exosomes on sepsis was investigated using a mouse model. USSCs were isolated from human cord blood and characterized by flow cytometry and multi-lineage differentiation. The exosomes were then harvested from USSCs and characterized by transmission electron microscopy, Western blotting, and dynamic light scattering. The harvested exosomes were injected into the mouse model of sepsis. Biochemical, histological, molecular, and survival studies were performed in different groups. Our observations showed that USSC-derived exosomes can reduce inflammation in septic mice. Histopathologic and biochemical findings in the sham group showed multiorgan involvement, but these changes disappeared after 7 days of exosome administration. Moreover, the expression of IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 (main adapter molecules in signaling pathways of inflammation) was decreased through negative regulation by miR-146a after 72 h of exosome administration. A 2-fold increase in the level of IL-10 and a 2-fold decrease in the levels of IL-6 and TNF-α was observed. In conclusion, we showed that direct injection of USSC-derived exosomes can be one of the important methods for the treatment of various aspects of sepsis due to their immunomodulatory properties.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Cell intrinsic and extrinsic perturbations to inflammatory signaling pathways are a hallmark of development and progression of hematologic malignancies. The interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) are a family of related signaling intermediates (IRAK1, IRAK2, IRAK3, IRAK4) that operate at the nexus of multiple inflammatory pathways implicated in the hematologic malignancies. In this review, we explicate the oncogenic role of these kinases and review recent therapeutic advances in the dawning era of IRAK-targeted therapy.RECENT FINDINGS: Emerging evidence places IRAK signaling at the confluence of adaptive resistance and oncogenesis in the hematologic malignancies and solid tissue tumors. Preclinical investigations nominate the IRAK kinases as targetable molecular dependencies in diverse cancers.SUMMARY: IRAK-targeted therapies that have matriculated to early phase trials are yielding promising preliminary results. However, studies of IRAK kinase signaling continue to defy conventional signaling models and raise questions as to the design of optimal treatment strategies. Efforts to refine IRAK signaling mechanisms in the malignant context will inspire deliberate IRAK-targeted drug development and informed combination therapy.
OBJECTIVES: In the premature newborn, perinatal inflammation mediated by microglia contributes significantly to neurodevelopmental injuries including white matter injury (WMI). Brain inflammation alters development through neuroinflammatory processes mediated by activation of homeostatic microglia toward a pro-inflammatory and neurotoxic phenotype. Investigating immune regulators of microglial activation is crucial to find effective strategies to prevent and treat WMI.METHODS: Ex vivo microglial cultures and a mouse model of WMI induced by perinatal inflammation (interleukin-1-beta [IL-1β] and postnatal days 1-5) were used to uncover and elucidate the role of microRNA-146b-5p in microglial activation and WMI.RESULTS: A specific reduction in vivo in microglia of Dicer, a protein required for microRNAs maturation, reduces pro-inflammatory activation of microglia and prevents hypomyelination in our model of WMI. Microglial miRNome analysis in the WMI model identified miRNA-146b-5p as a candidate modulator of microglial activation. Ex vivo microglial cell culture treated with the pro-inflammatory stimulus lipopolysaccharide (LPS) led to overexpression of immunomodulatory miRNA-146b-5p but its drastic reduction in the microglial extracellular vesicles (EVs). To increase miRNA-146b-5p expression, we used a 3DNA nanocarrier to deliver synthetic miRNA-146b-5p specifically to microglia. Enhancing microglial miRNA-146b-5p overexpression significantly decreased LPS-induced activation, downregulated IRAK1, and restored miRNA-146b-5p levels in EVs. In our WMI model, 3DNA miRNA-146b-5p treatment significantly prevented microglial activation, hypomyelination, and cognitive defect induced by perinatal inflammation.INTERPRETATIONS: These findings support that miRNA-146b-5p is a major regulator of microglia phenotype and could be targeted to reduce the incidence and the severity of perinatal brain injuries and their long-term consequences. ANN NEUROL 2022;91:48-65.
BACKGROUND: Microribonucleic acids (miRNAs) have an evident role in regulating endothelial inflammation and dysfunction, which characterizes the early stages of atherosclerosis. The NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome has been reported to contribute to the endothelial inflammatory response that promotes atherosclerosis development and progression. This study sought to investigate the effects of miR-146a-5p on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced NLRP3 inflammasome injury and pro-inflammatory cytokine production in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs).METHODS: HUVECs were transfected with a miR-146a-5p mimic, small-interfering RNA (siRNA) (si-TRAF6, and si-IRAK1), and were then stimulated with LPS for 24 h. The messenger (mRNA) and the protein levels of p-NF-κB/NF-κB, NLRP3, Caspase-1, pro-inflammatory cytokine [interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)] in the HUVECs were analyzed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reactions (PCRs) and western blot assays, respectively. The secretion of IL-6 from the cells was detected by enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA). Bioinformatic and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to identify the targets of miR-146a-5p.RESULTS: LPS promoted pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in a dose-dependent manner and significantly increased the expression levels of p-NF-κB/NF-κB p65, NLRP3, and Caspase-1. After transfection with a miR-146a-5p mimic, or si-TRAF6 or si-IRAK1, we observed that the mRNA and protein levels of NF-κB/p-NF-κB, NLRP3, Caspase-1, and pro-inflammatory cytokine in the HUVECs were all down-regulated, and the secretion of IL-6 from cells declined significantly. After transfection with a miR-146-5p mimic, the expression of TRAF6 and IRAK1 in HUVECs were both down-regulated. Dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that miR-146-5p directly targets the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of TRAF6 and IRAK1 to regulate their expression.CONCLUSIONS: As a modulator of TRAF6 and IRAK1, miR-146a-5p negatively regulated LPS-induced NF-κB activation and the NLRP3 inflammasome signaling pathway in HUVECs. Thus, miRNA-146a-5p may serve as a potential therapeutic target for atherosclerosis.
Injury of oligodendrocytes (OLs) induces demyelination, and patients with neurodegenerative diseases exhibit demyelination concomitantly with neurological deficit and cognitive impairment. Oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) are present in the adult central nervous system (CNS), and they can proliferate, differentiate, and remyelinate axons after damage. However, remyelination therapies are not in clinical use. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a major demyelinating disease in the CNS. Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have demonstrated therapeutic promise in animal models and in clinical trials of MS. Exosomes are nanoparticles generated by nearly all cells and they mediate cell-cell communication by transferring cargo biomaterials. Here, we hypothesize that exosomes harvested from MSCs have a similar therapeutic effect on enhancement of remyelination as that of MSCs. In the present study we employed exosomes derived from rhesus monkey MSCs (MSC-Exo). Two mouse models of demyelination were employed: 1) experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS; and 2) cuprizone (CPZ) diet model, a toxic demyelination model. MSC-Exo or PBS were intravenously injected twice a week for 4 weeks, starting on day 10 post immunization in EAE mice, or once a week for 2 weeks starting on the day of CPZ diet withdrawal. Neurological and cognitive function were tested, OPC differentiation and remyelination, neuroinflammation and the potential underlying mechanisms were investigated using immunofluorescent staining, transmission electron microscopy and Western blot. Data generated from the EAE model revealed that MSC-Exo cross the blood brain barrier (BBB) and target neural cells. Compared with the controls (p < 0.05), treatment with MSC-Exo: 1) significantly improved neurological outcome; 2) significantly increased the numbers of newly generated OLs (BrdU+/APC+) and mature OLs (APC+), and the level of myelin basic protein (MBP); 3) decreased amyloid-β precursor protein (APP)+ density; 4) decreased neuroinflammation by increasing the M2 phenotype and decreasing the M1 phenotype of microglia, as well as their related cytokines; 5) inhibited the TLR2/IRAK1/NFκB pathway. Furthermore, we confirmed that the MSC-Exo treatment significantly improved cognitive function, promoted remyelination, increased polarization of M2 phenotype and blocked TLR2 signaling in the CPZ model. Collectively, MSC-Exo treatment promotes remyelination by both directly acting on OPCs and indirectly by acting on microglia in the demyelinating CNS. This study provides the cellular and molecular basis for this cell-free exosome therapy on remyelination and modulation of neuroinflammation in the CNS, with great potential for treatment of demyelinating and neurodegenerative disorders.
Regnase-1 is an endoribonuclease crucial for controlling inflammation by degrading mRNAs encoding cytokines and inflammatory mediators in mammals. However, it is unclear how Regnase-1-mediated mRNA decay is controlled in interleukin (IL)-1β- or Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligand-stimulated cells. Here, by analyzing the Regnase-1 interactome, we found that IL-1β or TLR stimulus dynamically induced the formation of Regnase-1-β-transducin repeat-containing protein (βTRCP) complex. Importantly, we also uncovered a novel interaction between Regnase-1 and 14-3-3 in both mouse and human cells. In IL-1R/TLR-stimulated cells, the Regnase-1-14-3-3 interaction is mediated by IRAK1 through a previously uncharacterized C-terminal structural domain. Phosphorylation of Regnase-1 at S494 and S513 is critical for Regnase-1-14-3-3 interaction, while a different set of phosphorylation sites of Regnase-1 is known to be required for the recognition by βTRCP and proteasome-mediated degradation. We found that Regnase-1-14-3-3 and Regnase-1-βTRCP interactions are not sequential events. Rather, 14-3-3 protects Regnase-1 from βTRCP-mediated degradation. On the other hand, 14-3-3 abolishes Regnase-1-mediated mRNA decay by inhibiting Regnase-1-mRNA association. In addition, nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling of Regnase-1 is abrogated by 14-3-3 interaction. Taken together, the results suggest that a novel inflammation-induced interaction of 14-3-3 with Regnase-1 stabilizes inflammatory mRNAs by sequestering Regnase-1 in the cytoplasm to prevent mRNA recognition.
Quinones are a class of cyclic organic compounds that are widely distributed in nature and have been shown to exhibit anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anticancerous activities. However, the molecular mechanisms/signaling by which these molecules exert their effect are still not fully understood. In this study, a group of quinone-derived compounds were examined for their potential inhibitory effect against human IRAK1 and IRAK4 kinases in vitro. We have identified five compounds: 1,4-naphthoquinone, emodin, shikonin, plumbagin, and menadione (vitamin K3) as active and selective inhibitors of human IRAK1 enzyme in vitro. The biochemical binding and molecular interactions between the active compounds and IRAK1's catalytic site were demonstrated in silico using structural-based docking and dynamic simulation analysis. Also, 1,4-naphthoquinone was found to effectively inhibit the growth of cancer cell lines overexpressing IRAK1. Furthermore, 1,4-naphthoquinone potently suppressed the production and secretion of key proinflammatory cytokine proteins IL-8, IL-1β, IL-10, TNF-α, and IL-6 in LPS-stimulated PMA-induced human THP-1 macrophages. In conclusion, 1,4-naphthoquinone is an effective inhibitor of IRAK1 kinases and their mediated inflammatory cytokines production in LPS-stimulated PMA-induced human THP-1 macrophages.
Objective: Emerging evidence highlights the implications of the toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway in the pathogenesis and therapeutic regimens of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Herein, a prognostic TLR-based gene signature was conducted for HCC. Methods: HCC-specific TLRs were screened in the TCGA cohort. A LASSO model was constructed based on prognosis-related HCC-specific TLRs. The predictive efficacy, sensitivity, and independency of this signature was then evaluated and externally verified in the ICGC, GSE14520, and GSE76427 cohorts. The associations between this signature and tumor microenvironment (stromal/immune score, immune checkpoint expression, and immune cell infiltrations) and chemotherapy response were assessed in HCC specimens. The expression of TLRs in this signature was verified in HCC and normal liver tissues by Western blot. Following si-MAP2K2 transfection, colony formation and apoptosis of Huh7 and HepG2 cells were examined. Results: Herein, we identified 60 HCC-specific TLRs. A TLR-based gene signature (MAP2K2, IRAK1, RAC1, TRAF3, MAP3K7, and SPP1) was conducted for HCC prognosis. High-risk patients exhibited undesirable outcomes. ROC curves confirmed the well prediction performance of this signature. Multivariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that the signature was an independent prognostic indicator. Also, high-risk HCC was characterized by an increased immune score, immune checkpoint expression, and immune cell infiltration. Meanwhile, high-risk patients displayed higher sensitivity to gemcitabine and cisplatin. The dysregulation of TLRs in the signature was confirmed in HCC. MAP2K2 knockdown weakened colony formation and elevated apoptosis of Huh7 and HepG2 cells. Conclusion: Collectively, this TLR-based gene signature might assist clinicians to select personalized therapy programs for HCC patients.
CXCR4 plays an important role in colorectal cancer (CRC) development and metastasis. Some previous studies have indicated CXCR4 as a therapeutic target in cancer. CXCR4 is known as a direct target of miR-146a. The present study aimed to investigate how exogenous induction of miR-146a affects CXCR4 gene and protein expression and also proliferation, apoptosis and migration of CRC cells. Transfection of Caco-2 and SW480 cells by a synthetic miR-146a mimic led to downregulation of CXCR4 expression at both gene and protein levels. It also downregulated expression of several miR-146a targets, including GSK3B, IRAK1, TRAF6, AKT2, SMAD4, EGFR and NFKB1, mostly in SW480 cells. Overexpression of miR-146a resulted in a partial cell cycle arrest in the both cell lines, while the apoptotic rate was also decreased. In regards to epithelial-mesenchymal transition factors, VIM was downregulated in the both cell lines, but SNAI1 was upregulated in Caco-2 cells. The wound closure assay showed a reduction in cell migration in SW480 cells, but an opposite effect was detected in Caco-2 cells following transfection with miR-146a mimic. Therefore, our results are indicating that overexpression of miR-146a, despite downregulation of oncogenic CXCR4, may not lead to a universal tumor suppressive effect in all CRC cells, and this is possibly due to differences in miR-146a effects on signaling pathways in each cell type. Selection of miR-146a for tumor suppression requires enough details regarding the signaling profile of cancer cells otherwise it may produce unexpected outcome.
Ubiquitination and phosphorylation are reversible posttranslational protein modifications regulating physiological and pathological processes. MAPK phosphatase (MKP)-1 regulates innate and adaptive immunity. The multifaceted roles of MKP-1 were attributed to dephosphorylation of p38 and JNK MAPKs. We show that the lack of MKP-1 modulates the landscape of ubiquitin ligases and deubiquitinase enzymes (DUBs). MKP-1-/- showed an aberrant regulation of several DUBs and increased expression of proteins and genes involved in IL-1/TLR signaling upstream of MAPK, including IL-1R1, IRAK1, TRAF6, phosphorylated TAK1, and an increased K63 polyubiquitination on TRAF6. Increased K63 polyubiquitination on TRAF6 was associated with an enhanced phosphorylated form of A20. Among abundant DUBs, ubiquitin-specific protease-13 (USP13), which cleaves polyubiquitin-chains on client proteins, was substantially enhanced in murine MKP-1-deficient BMDMs. An inhibitor of USP13 decreased the K63 polyubiquitination on TRAF6, TAK1 phosphorylation, IL-1β, and TNF-α induction in response to LPS in BMDMs. Our data show for the first time that MKP-1 modulates the ligase activity of TRAF6 through modulation of specific DUBs.
To elucidate novel aspects of the molecular pathogenesis of colorectal cancer (CRC), we have created a new microRNA (miRNA) expression signature based on RNA-sequencing. Analysis of the signature showed that 84 miRNAs were upregulated, and 70 were downregulated in CRC tissues. Interestingly, our signature indicated that both guide and passenger strands of some miRNAs were significantly dysregulated in CRC tissues. These findings support our earlier data demonstrating the involvement of miRNA passenger strands in cancer pathogenesis. Our study focused on downregulated miR-490-3p and investigated its tumor-suppressive function in CRC cells. We successfully identified a total of 38 putative oncogenic targets regulated by miR-490-3p in CRC cells. Among these targets, the expression of three genes (IRAK1: p = 0.0427, FUT1: p = 0.0468, and GPRIN2: p = 0.0080) significantly predicted 5-year overall survival of CRC patients. Moreover, we analyzed the direct regulation of IRAK1 by miR-490-3p, and its resultant oncogenic function in CRC cells. Thus, we have clarified a part of the molecular pathway of CRC based on the action of tumor-suppressive miR-490-3p. This new miRNA expression signature of CRC will be a useful tool for elucidating new molecular pathogenesis in this disease.
Comment in    Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022;13(2):674-675.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) has been the leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, and its pathogenesis is closely related with the proliferation and migration of vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC). We previously reported a truncated GATA4 protein lacking C-terminus induced by p.S335X mutation in cardiomyocyte from ventricular septal defect (VSD) patients. However, it is still unclear whether GATA4 p.S335X mutation could influence the development of CAD. GATA4 wild-type (WT) and p.S335X mutant (MU) overexpression plasmids were constructed and transfected transiently into rat coronary artery smooth muscle cell (RCSMC) to observe the proliferative and migratory abilities by MTS and wound healing assay, respectively. PCR array was used to preliminarily detect the expression of phenotypic modulation-related genes, and QRT-PCR was then carried out to verify the screened differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The results showed that, when stimulated by fetal bovine serum (10%) for 24 h or tumor necrosis factor-α (10 or 30 ng/ml) for 10 or 24 h, deletion of GATA4 C-terminus by p.S335X mutation in GATA4 enhanced the proliferation of RCSMC, without alteration of the migration capability. Twelve DEGs, including Fas, Hbegf, Itga5, Aimp1, Cxcl1, Il15, Il2rg, Il7, Tnfsf10, Il1r1, Irak1, and Tlr3, were screened and identified as phenotypic modulation-related genes. Our data might be beneficial for further exploration regarding the mechanisms of GATA4 p.S335X mutation on the phenotypic modulation of coronary VSMC.
Leishmania are intracellular protozoan parasites that cause a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations in genetically susceptible individuals with an insufficient or balanced Th1 immune response to eliminate the parasite. MiRNAs play important regulatory role in numerous biological processes including essential cellular functions. miR146-a acts as an inhibitor of interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6) present in the toll-like receptors pathway while miR499a modulates TGF-β and TNF signalling pathways. Here, we investigated whether MIRNA146A rs2910164 and MIRNA499 rs3746444 variants are associated with the development of L. guyanensis (Lg)-cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL). The variants MIR146A rs2910164 and MIR499A rs3746444 were assessed in 850 patients with Lg-CL and 891 healthy controls by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Plasma cytokines were measured using the BioPlex assay. Carriers of rs2910164 CC genotype have 30% higher odds of developing CL (ORadjage/sex = 1.3 [95%CI 0.9-1.8]; Padjage/sex 0.14) compared to individuals with the genotype GG (ORadjage/sex = 0.77 [95%CI 0.56-1.0]; Padjage/sex 0.14) if exposed to Lg-infection. Heterozygous GC individuals also showed lower odds of developing CL (ORadjage/sex = 0.77 [95%CI 0.5-1.1]; Padjage/sex 0.09). Homozygosity for the allele C is suggestive of an association with the development of Lg-CL among exposed individuals to Lg-infection. However, the odds of developing CL associated with the CC genotype was evident only in male individuals (ORadjage = 1.3 [95% CI = 0.9-2.0]; Padjage = 0.06). Individuals homozygous for the G allele tend to have higher plasma IL-8 and CCL5. Similarly, for the MIR499A rs3746444, an association with the G allele was only observed among male individuals (OR = 1.4 [1.0-1.9]; P = 0.009). In a dominant model, individuals with the G allele (GG-GA) when compared to the AA genotype reveals that carriers of the G allele have 40% elevated odds of developing Lg-CL (ORadjage = 1.4 [1.1-1.9]). Individuals with the GG genotype have higher odds of developing Lg-CL (ORadjage/sex = 2.0 [95%CI 0.83-5.0]; Padjage = 0.01. Individuals homozygous for the G allele have higher plasma IL-8. Genetic combinations of both variants revealed that male individuals exposed to Lg bearing three or four susceptible alleles have higher odds of developing Lg-CL (OR = 2.3 [95% CI 1.0-4.7]; p = 0.017). Both MIR146A rs2910164 and MIR499A rs3746444 are associated with the development of Lg-CL and this association is prevalent in male individuals.
Because of the critical roles of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE) in the pathophysiology of various acute and chronic inflammatory diseases, continuous efforts have been made to discover novel therapeutic inhibitors of TLRs and RAGE to treat inflammatory disorders. A recent study by our group has demonstrated that trimebutine, a spasmolytic drug, suppresses the high mobility group box 1‒RAGE signaling that is associated with triggering proinflammatory signaling pathways in macrophages. Our present work showed that trimebutine suppresses interleukin-6 (IL-6) production in lipopolysaccharide (LPS, a stimulant of TLR4)-stimulated macrophages of RAGE-knockout mice. In addition, trimebutine suppresses the LPS-induced production of various proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines in mouse macrophage-like RAW264.7 cells. Importantly, trimebutine suppresses IL-6 production induced by TLR2-and TLR7/8/9 stimulants. Furthermore, trimebutine greatly reduces mortality in a mouse model of LPS-induced sepsis. Studies exploring the action mechanism of trimebutine revealed that it inhibits the LPS-induced activation of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), and the subsequent activations of extracellular signal-related kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB). These findings suggest that trimebutine exerts anti-inflammatory effects on TLR signaling by downregulating IRAK1‒ERK1/2‒JNK pathway and NF-κB activity, thereby indicating the therapeutic potential of trimebutine in inflammatory diseases. Therefore, trimebutine can be a novel anti-inflammatory drug-repositioning candidate and may provide an important scaffold for designing more effective dual anti-inflammatory drugs that target TLR/RAGE signaling.
In dairy cattle, endometritis is a severe infectious disease that occurs following parturition. It is clear that genetic factors are involved in the etiology of endometritis, however, the molecular pathogenesis of endometritis is not entirely understood. In this study, a system biology approach was used to better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of endometritis. Forty transcriptomic datasets comprising of 20 RNA-Seq (GSE66825) and 20 miRNA-Seq (GSE66826) were obtained from the GEO database. Next, the co-expressed modules were constructed based on RNA-Seq (Rb-modules) and miRNA-Seq (mb-modules) data, separately, using a weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) approach. Preservation analysis was used to find the non-preserved Rb-modules in endometritis samples. Afterward, the non-preserved Rb-modules were assigned to the mb-modules to construct the integrated regulatory networks. Just highly connected genes (hubs) in the networks were considered and functional enrichment analysis was used to identify the biological pathways associated with the development of the disease. Furthermore, additional bioinformatic analysis including protein-protein interactions network and miRNA target prediction were applied to enhance the reliability of the results. Thirty-five Rb-modules and 10 mb-modules were identified and 19 and 10 modules were non-preserved, respectively, which were enriched in biological pathways related to endometritis like inflammation and ciliogenesis. Two non-preserved Rb-modules were significantly assigned to three mb-modules and three and two important sub-networks in the Rb-modules were identified, respectively, including important mRNAs, lncRNAs and miRNAs genes like IRAK1, CASP3, CCDC40, CCDC39, ZMYND10, FOXJ1, TLR4, IL10, STAT3, FN1, AKT1, CD68, ENSBTAG00000049936, ENSBTAG00000050527, ENSBTAG00000051242, ENSBTAG00000049287, bta-miR-449, bta-miR-484, bta-miR-149, bta-miR-30b and bta-miR-423. The potential roles of these genes have been previously demonstrated in endometritis or related pathways, which reinforced putative functions of the suggested integrated regulatory networks in the endometritis pathogenesis. These findings may help further elucidate the underlying mechanisms of bovine endometritis.
Intensive aquaculture often results in immunosuppression in fish, which may cause a series of diseases. In this study, to investigate the immunosuppressive mechanisms in fish, tilapia were intrapleural injected cyclophosphamide (CTX) at the doses of 10, 25, 50, 75 and 100 mg·kg-1 to induce immunosuppression. We determined the viability of immune cells, the content of lysozyme (LZM) and immunoglobulin M (IgM), the levels of nitric oxide (NO) and antioxidant parameters. Meanwhile, the mRNA levels of complement C3 (c3), igm and the genes associated with the TLR-NF-κB signaling pathway in the head kidney (HK) and spleen were also determined. The results showed that CTX had a significant cytotoxic effect on peripheral blood leukocytes, HK macrophages and spleen cells in a dose-dependent manner. The protein and mRNA levels of C3 and IgM were down-regulated with the increase of CTX concentrations in serum, HK and/or spleen. The NO and LZM contents decreased significantly in HK and spleen after CTX treatments with 75 and 100 mg·kg-1. CTX treatments with 50, 75 and/or 100 mg·kg-1 markedly decreased the antioxidant ability and enhanced lipid peroxidation in HK and spleen. Furthermore, qPCR data showed that CTX treatments with 50-100 mg·kg-1 clearly down-regulated the mRNA levels of tlr2, myd88, irak1, traf6, nfκb1, nfκb2, il-6, il-10 and tnf-α in the HK and/or spleen. Overall results suggested that CTX treatment had a cytotoxic effect on immune cells, induced lipid peroxidation, decreased the antioxidant capacity and inhibited immune function. The immunosuppressive mechanisms of CTX may be associated with the TLR-NF-κB signaling pathway.
Although 15-20% of COVID-19 patients experience hyper-inflammation induced by massive cytokine production, cellular triggers of this process and strategies to target them remain poorly understood. Here, we show that the N-terminal domain (NTD) of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein substantially induces multiple inflammatory molecules in myeloid cells and human PBMCs. Using a combination of phenotypic screening with machine learning-based modeling, we identified and experimentally validated several protein kinases, including JAK1, EPHA7, IRAK1, MAPK12, and MAP3K8, as essential downstream mediators of NTD-induced cytokine production, implicating the role of multiple signaling pathways in cytokine release. Further, we found several FDA-approved drugs, including ponatinib, and cobimetinib as potent inhibitors of the NTD-mediated cytokine release. Treatment with ponatinib outperforms other drugs, including dexamethasone and baricitinib, inhibiting all cytokines in response to the NTD from SARS-CoV-2 and emerging variants. Finally, ponatinib treatment inhibits lipopolysaccharide-mediated cytokine release in myeloid cells in vitro and lung inflammation mouse model. Together, we propose that agents targeting multiple kinases required for SARS-CoV-2-mediated cytokine release, such as ponatinib, may represent an attractive therapeutic option for treating moderate to severe COVID-19.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are key mediators of transplant rejection. Numerous factors have been identified that regulate transplant immunopathology by modulating the function of DCs. Among these, microRNAs (miRNAs), small non-coding RNA molecules, have received much attention. The miRNA miR-223 is very highly expressed and tightly regulated in hematopoietic cells. It plays an important role in modulating the immune response by regulating neutrophils and macrophages, and its dysregulation contributes to multiple types of immune diseases. However, the role of miR-223 in immune rejection is unclear. Here, we observed expression of miR-223 in patients and mice who had undergone heart transplantation and found that it increased in the serum of both, and also in DCs from the spleens of recipient mice, although it was unchanged in splenic T cells. We also found that miR-223 expression decreased in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated DCs. Increasing the level of miR-223 in DCs promoted polarization of DCs toward a tolerogenic phenotype, which indicates that miR-223 can attenuate activation and maturation of DCs. MiR-223 effectively induced regulatory T cells (Tregs) by inhibiting the function of antigen-presenting DCs. In addition, we identified Irak1 as a miR-223 target gene and an essential regulator of DC maturation. In mouse allogeneic heterotopic heart transplantation models, grafts survived longer and suffered less immune cell infiltration in mice with miR-223-overexpressing immature (im)DCs. In the miR-223-overexpressing imDC recipients, T cells from spleen differentiated into Tregs, and the level of IL-10 in heart grafts was markedly higher than that in the control group. In conclusion, miR-223 regulates the function of DCs via Irak1, differentiation of T cells into Tregs, and secretion of IL-10, thereby suppressing allogeneic heart graft rejection.
BACKGROUND: The impact of glycemic fluctuation under diabetic condition on peri-implantitis in diabetic patients remains unclear. We hypothesized that glycemic fluctuation has greater adverse effect on experimental peri-implantitis, compared with sustained high blood glucose in diabetes.RESULTS: Maxillary left first and second molars of diabetic db/db mice were extracted and were replaced with one dental implant in the healed edentulous space. Glycemic control or fluctuation were managed by constant or interrupted oral administration of rosiglitazone to these mice. Meanwhile, experimental peri-implantitis was induced by ligation around implants. After 14 weeks, inflammatory responses, and peri-implant bone loss, together with oral microbiota profile were analyzed. Diabetic mice with glycemic fluctuation showed greater peri-implant bone loss, inflammatory cell infiltration, and osteoclastogenesis, compared with mice with sustained hyperglycemia. Compared to sustained hyperglycemia, glycemic fluctuation led to further increase in IL-1β, TNFα, RANKL, TLR2/4, IRAK1, and TRAF6 mRNA expression in peri-implant gingival tissues. Both rosiglitazone-induced glycemic control and glycemic fluctuation caused microbiota profile change in diabetic mice compared to that in uncontrolled hyperglycemic mice.CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that glycemic fluctuation may aggravate peri-implantitis inflammation and bone loss, which may be associated with a shift in peri-implant microbial profile towards dysbiotic changes and the activation of TLR2/4-IRAK1-TRAF6 signaling.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are involved to the maternal immune tolerance. The spleen is essential for adaptive immune reactions. However, it is unclear that early pregnancy regulates TLR-mediated signalings in the maternal spleen. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of early pregnancy on expression of TLR signaling members in the ovine spleen. Ovine spleens were collected at day 16 of the estrous cycle, and at days 13, 16 and 25 of pregnancy (n = 6 for each group). Real-time quantitative PCR, western blot and immunohistochemistry analysis were used to detect TLR signaling members, including TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, TLR5, TLR7, TLR9, myeloid differentiation primary-response protein 88 (MyD88), tumor necrosis factor receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1-receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). The results showed that expression levels of TLR2, TLR4 and IRAK1 were downregulated, but expression levels of TLR3, TLR5, TLR7, TLR9, TRAF6 and MyD88 were increased during early pregnancy. In addition, MyD88 protein was located in the capsule, trabeculae and splenic cords of the maternal spleen. This paper reports for the first time that early pregnancy has effects on TLR signaling pathways in the ovine spleen, which is beneficial for understanding the maternal immune tolerance during early pregnancy.
microRNAs (miRNAs), a crucial class of small non-coding RNA species, have been extensively studied as key molecular in immune regulation in the past decades. Here, we discover a new miRNA miR-148-1-5p and we elaborate that miR-148-1-5p functions as a negative regulator to participate in innate immune responses. In this article, it has been researched that the regulation effect of miR-148-1-5p to the nuclear factor kappaB (NF-κB) signaling pathway by targeting IRAK1 in miiuy croaker. First, through bioinformatics software to predict the potential targets of miR-148-1-5p, we found that IRAK1 had a base complementary region with indicated miRNA. Next, the dual-luciferase assays revealed that overexpression of miR-148-1-5p mimics and pre-miR-148 plasmid could significantly inhibit the luciferase activity of wild-type IRAK1-3'UTR. However, miR-148-1-5p inhibitors attenuated the inhibition caused by miR-148-1-5p. In addition, we also confirmed that miR-148-1-5p could suppress the expression of IRAK1 at mRNA level. Collectively, the regulations of miR-148-1-5p to NF-κB signaling pathways via targeting the IRAK1 gene was studied in miiuy croaker, which provided new information to enrich the immune regulation network of miRNA in teleost fish.
Anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is an extremely aggressive tumor associated with poor prognosis due to a lack of efficient therapies. In Japan, lenvatinib is the only drug approved for patients with ATC; however, its efficacy is limited. Therefore, novel therapeutic strategies are urgently required for patients with ATC. The present study aimed to identify compounds that enhance the antiproliferative effects of lenvatinib in ATC cells using a compound library. IRAK1/4 Inhibitor I was identified as a candidate compound. Combined treatment with lenvatinib and IRAK1/4 Inhibitor I showed synergistic antiproliferative effects via the induction of cell cycle arrest at G2/M phase in the ATC cell lines 8305C, HTC/C3, ACT-1, and 8505C. Furthermore, IRAK1/4 Inhibitor I enhanced the inhibition of ERK phosphorylation by lenvatinib in 8305C, HTC/C3, and 8505C cells. In an HTC/C3 xenograft mouse model, tumor volume was lower in the combined IRAK1/4 Inhibitor I and lenvatinib group compared with that in the vehicle control, IRAK1/4 Inhibitor I, and lenvatinib groups. IRAK1/4 Inhibitor I was identified as a promising compound that enhances the antiproliferative and antitumor effects of lenvatinib in ATC.
INTRODUCTION: Quercetin was recently reported to help protect against osteoarthritis (OA) progression, but the molecular mechanism for that protective affect remains unclear.METHODS: Here, OA model rats were intraperitoneally injected with quercetin, and the severity of cartilage damage in the rats was evaluated by H&E, Safranin O, and Toluidine blue, as well as by using the Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI) Scoring System. Additionally, rat chondrocytes were treated with quercetin and then stimulated with IL-1β. The levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-18, and TNF-α) were detected by ELISA.Cell apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry and Hoechst staining. ROS levels were measured using a DCFH-DA probe. Protein expression was evaluated by Western blotting, immunohistochemical staining, and immunofluorescence.RESULTS: Our data showed that quercetin attenuated the degeneration and erosion of articular cartilage, suppressed inflammation and apoptosis, and downregulated the levels of IRAK1, NLRP3, and caspase-3 expression. In vitro data showed that overexpression of NLRP3 could reverse the suppressive effect of quercetin on IL-1β-induced rat chondrocyte injuries. Importantly, rescue experiments confirmed that quercetin inhibited IL-1β-induced rat chondrocyte injuries in vitro by suppressing the IRAK1/NLRP3 signaling pathway.CONCLUSION: Our study indicated that quercetin inhibits IL-1β-induced inflammation and cartilage degradation by suppressing the IRAK1/NLRP3 signaling pathway.
MyD88 gene mutation has been identified as one of the most prevalent driver mutations in the activated B-cell-like diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (ABC DLBCL). The published literature suggests that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is an essential gene for ABC DLBCL harboring MyD88 mutation. Importantly, the scaffolding function of IRAK1, rather than its kinase activity, is required for tumor cell survival. Herein, we present our design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of a novel series of potent and selective IRAK1 degraders. One of the most potent compounds, Degrader-3 (JNJ-1013), effectively degraded cellular IRAK1 protein with a DC50 of 3 nM in HBL-1 cells. Furthermore, JNJ-1013 potently inhibited IRAK1 downstream signaling pathways and demonstrated strong anti-proliferative effects in ABC DLBCL cells with MyD88 mutation. This work suggests that IRAK1 degraders have the potential for treating cancers that are dependent on the IRAK1 scaffolding function.
Polymorphisms in genes that control immune function and regulation may influence susceptibility to pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). In this study, 14 polymorphisms in 12 key genes involved in the immune response (VDR, MR1, TLR1, TLR2, TLR10, SLC11A1, IL1B, IL10, IFNG, TNF, IRAK1, and FOXP3) were tested for their association with pulmonary TB in 271 patients with TB and 251 community-matched controls from the Republic of Moldova. In addition, gene-gene interactions involved in TB susceptibility were analyzed for a total of 43 genetic loci. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis revealed a nominal association between TNF rs1800629 and pulmonary TB (Fisher exact test P = 0.01843). In the pairwise interaction analysis, the combination of the genotypes TLR6 rs5743810 GA and TLR10 rs11096957 GT was significantly associated with an increased genetic risk of pulmonary TB (OR = 2.48, 95% CI = 1.62-3.85; Fisher exact test P value = 1.5 × 10-5, significant after Bonferroni correction). In conclusion, the TLR6 rs5743810 and TLR10 rs11096957 two-locus interaction confers a significantly higher risk for pulmonary TB; due to its high frequency in the population, this SNP combination may serve as a novel biomarker for predicting TB susceptibility.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common type of cancer. Here, we studied the inhibitory effect of IRAK1 and IRAK4 as a preventive strategy using a colitis-induced tumorigenesis mouse model. CRC clinical data were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). An experimental inflammation-dependent CRC model was induced by treatment with azoxymethane (AOM) and then dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) in C57BL/6 mice. Mice were administered an IRAK1/4 inhibitor by intraperitoneal injection at 3 mg/kg twice each week for 9 weeks. The IRAK1/4 inhibitor attenuated histological changes and prevented tumor growth. Tumor-associated proteins, including p65 and Ki-67, were downregulated by the IRAK1/4 inhibitor in AOM/DSS-treated mice. Additionally, IRAK1/4 inhibitor administration effectively decreased the expression of inflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, we observed that IRAK1/4 inhibitor treatment attenuated colitis-induced tumorigenesis by inhibiting epithelial-mesenchymal transition. These observations indicate that inhibition of IRAK1 and IRAK4 may suppress experimental colitis-induced tumorigenesis by inhibiting inflammatory responses and epithelial-mesenchymal transition.
Although many studies have shown that lncRNA, a non-coding RNA with a length of more than 200 bases, is involved in various biological functions, including the immune process, stress process, and cell development process. However, the function of lncRNA in abalone, especially in immunity, has been rarely studied. H. discus hannai and H. diversicolor are two main aquaculture abalone, and their growth is easily affected by the main pathogen Vibrio parahaemolyticus. Through rigorous screening procedures for transcripts in this study, we found that lncRNAs were 34,240, 23,022 in Haliotis diversicolor and H. discus hannai injected with V. parahaemolyticus, respectively. We also identified the unique and common lncRNAs and mRNAs of two abalone species for the first time; the shared lncRNAs and mRNAs in Haliotis diversicolor and H. discus hannai were 2352 and 13,165, respectively. Then gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis of the differentially expressed target genes of common and unique lncRNAs has shown that common lncRNAs could be widely involved in the biological processes of stress and cell development in both abalone species. In contrast, unique lncRNAs are linked to the Toll-like receptor, NF-kappaB signaling pathway of H. diversicolor, and pattern recognition receptors and lectins immune-related pathways of H. discus hannai. The co-expression network shows that some immune-related genes, such as INFK1, INFK2, CASP2, CASP8, IRAK1, lectin C, were closely related to lncRNAs. Further, we identified the targeted relationship between some immune-related genes and lncRNAs by qRT-PCR, through which we showed that the expression trend between targeted genes, such as INFK1 and Lnc7057, lectin C and Lnc6943, Lnc5637, and PLCG1 and Lnc1692, were consistent. In general, our results showed that lncRNA expression was induced in the two species of abalone after being infected with V. parahaemolyticus, and lncRNA was involved in the immune response of abalone by targeting coding genes.
Toll-like receptor (TLR) family signature has been implicated in sepsis etiopathology. We aimed to evaluate the genetic profile of TLR pathway-related key genes; the myeloid differentiation protein 88 (MYD88), IL1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), the nuclear factor kappa-B1 (NFKB1), and interleukin 6 (IL6) in the blood of neonates with sepsis at the time of admission and post-treatment for the available paired-samples. This case-control study included 124 infants with sepsis admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit and 17 controls. The relative gene expressions were quantified by TaqMan Real-Time qPCR and correlated to the clinic-laboratory data. MYD88, NFKB1, and IL6 relative expressions were significantly higher in sepsis cases than controls. Higher levels of MYD88 and IL6 were found in male neonates and contributed to the sex-based separation of the cases by the principal component analysis. ROC analysis revealed MYD88 and NFKB1 transcripts to be good biomarkers for sepsis. Furthermore, patients with high circulatory MYD88 levels were associated with poor survival, as revealed by Kaplan-Meier curves analysis. MYD88, NFKB1, and IL6 transcripts showed association with different poor-outcome manifestations. Clustering analysis split the patient cohort into three distinct groups according to their transcriptomic signature and CRP levels. In conclusion, the study TLR pathway-related transcripts have a gender-specific signature, diagnostic, and prognostic clinical utility in neonatal sepsis.
Polyubiquitination is important in controlling NF-κB signaling. Excessive NF-κB activity has been linked to inflammatory disorders and autoimmune diseases, while ABIN1 could attenuate NF-κB activation to maintain immune homeostasis by utilizing UBAN to recognize linear (M1)-linked polyubiquitinated NF-κB activation mediators, including NEMO, IRAK1 and RIP1. PolyUb-mediated UBAN recruitment remains undetermined, since the recognition studies focused mostly on di-ubiquitin (diUb). Here we report three crystal structures of human ABIN1 UBAN (hABIN1UBAN) in complex with M1-linked diUb, triUb, and tetraUb, respectively. Notably, the hABIN1UBAN:diUb structure reveals that a diUb randomly binds one of the Ub-binding sites of the hABIN1UBAN dimer and leaves the other site vacant. Together with the ITC and gel-filtration analyses, we found that M1-triUb and M1-tetraUb adopt two unique conformations, instead of an elongated one, and they preferentially use the N-terminal two-Ub unit to bind the primary Ub-binding site of a hABIN1UBAN dimer and the C-terminal two-Ub unit to bind the secondary Ub-binding site of another hABIN1UBAN dimer. Especially, our results suggest that two ABIN1UBAN dimers cooperatively bind two UBAN-binding units of a tetraUb or vice versa. Since the UBAN family members share a conserved diUb-binding mode, our results suggest that M1-polyUb modification allows multiple copies of the two-tandem Ub unit to simultaneously coordinate multiple and/or different binding partners to increase their local concentrations and to facilitate the formation of a large signaling complex. Our study provides a structural-functional glimpse of M1-polyUb as a multiple-molecule binding platform to exert its intrinsic structural plasticity in mediating cellular signaling.
Cellular stress can induce cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein complexes called stress granules that allow the cells to survive. Stress granules are also central to cellular responses to infections, in which they can act as platforms for viral sensing or modulate innate immune signaling through pattern recognition receptors. However, the effect of innate immune signaling on stress granules is poorly understood. In this study, we report that prior induction of innate immune signaling through TLRs inhibited stress granule assembly in a TLR ligand dose-dependent manner in murine bone marrow-derived macrophages. Time course analysis suggests that TLR stimulation can reverse stress granule assembly even after it has begun. Additionally, both MYD88- and TRIF-mediated TLR signaling inhibited stress granule assembly in response to endoplasmic reticulum stress in bone marrow-derived macrophages and the chemotherapeutic drug oxaliplatin in murine B16 melanoma cells. This inhibition was not due to a decrease in expression of the critical stress granule proteins G3BP1 and DDX3X and was independent of IRAK1/4, JNK, ERK and P38 kinase activity but dependent on IKK complex kinase activity. Overall, we have identified the TLR-IKK complex signaling axis as a regulator of stress granule assembly-disassembly dynamics, highlighting cross-talk between processes that are critical in health and disease.
DOI: 10.1021/acsmedchemlett.1c00244PMCID: PMC8201507PMID: 34141074
SWItch/Sucrose Non-Fermentable (SWI/SNF) is a multiprotein complex essential for the regulation of eukaryotic gene expression. SWI/SNF complex genes are genetically altered in over 20% of human malignancies, but the aberrant regulation of the SWI/SNF subunit genes and subsequent dysfunction caused by abnormal expression of subunit gene in cancer, remain poorly understood. Among the SWI/SNF subunit genes, SMARCA4, SMARCC1, and SMARCA2 were identified to be overexpressed in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Modulation of SMARCA4, SMARCC1, and SMARCA2 inhibited in vitro tumorigenesis of HCC cells. However, SMARCA4-targeting elicited remarkable inhibition in an in vivo Ras-transgenic mouse HCC model (Ras-Tg), and high expression levels of SMARCA4 significantly associated with poor prognosis in HCC patients. Furthermore, most HCC patients (72-86%) showed SMARCA4 overexpression compared to healthy controls. To identify SMARCA4-specific active enhancers, mapping, and analysis of chromatin state in liver cancer cells were performed. Integrative analysis of SMARCA4-regulated genes and active chromatin enhancers suggested 37 genes that are strongly activated by SMARCA4 in HCC. Through chromatin immunoprecipitation-qPCR and luciferase assays, we demonstrated that SMARCA4 activates Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) expression through IRAK1 active enhancer in HCC. We then showed that transcriptional activation of IRAK1 induces oncoprotein Gankyrin and aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10) in HCC. The regulatory mechanism of the SMARCA4-IRAK1-Gankyrin, AKR1B10 axis was further demonstrated in HCC cells and in vivo Ras-Tg mice. Our results suggest that aberrant overexpression of SMARCA4 causes SWI/SNF to promote IRAK1 enhancer to activate oncoprotein Gankyrin and AKR1B10, thereby contributing to hepatocarcinogenesis.
One of the main reasons for the lack of drug efficacy in late-stage clinical trials is the lack of specific and selective target engagement. To increase the likelihood of success of new therapeutics, one approach is to conduct proximal target engagement testing during the early phases of preclinical drug discovery. To identify and optimize selective IRAK4 inhibitors, a kinase that has been implicated in multiple inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, we established an electrochemiluminescence (ECL)-based cellular endogenous IRAK1 activation assay as the most proximal functional evaluation of IRAK4 engagement to support structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies. Since IRAK1 activation is dependent on both the IRAK4 scaffolding function in Myddosome formation and IRAK4 kinase activity for signal transduction, this assay potentially captures inhibitors with different mechanisms of action. Data from this IRAK1 assay with compounds representing different structural classes showed statistically significant correlations when compared with results from both IRAK4 biochemical kinase activity and functional peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)-derived tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) secretion assays, validating the biological relevancy of the IRAK1 target engagement as a biomarker of the IRAK4 activity. Plate uniformity and potency reproducibility evaluations demonstrated that this assay is amenable to high throughput. Using Bland-Altman assay agreement analysis, we demonstrated that incorporating such proximal pharmacological assessment of cellular target engagement to an in vitro screening funnel for SAR studies can prevent compound optimization toward off-target activity.
Comment in    J Thromb Haemost. 2022 Jan;20(1):261-262.    J Thromb Haemost. 2022 Jan;20(1):260-261.
Salmonella enterica Typhimurium is a rod-shaped Gram-negative bacterium that mostly enters the human body through contaminated food. It causes a gastrointestinal disorder called salmonellosis in humans and typhoid-like systemic disease in mice. OmpV, an outer membrane protein of S. Typhimurium, helps in adhesion and invasion of bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells and thus plays a vital role in the pathogenesis of S. Typhimurium. In this study, we have shown that intraperitoneal immunization with OmpV is able to induce high IgG production and protection against systemic disease. Further, oral immunization with OmpV-incorporated proteoliposome (OmpV-proteoliposome [PL]) induces production of high IgA antibody levels and protection against gastrointestinal infection. Furthermore, we have shown that OmpV induces Th1 bias in systemic immunization with purified OmpV, but both Th1 and Th2 polarization in oral immunization with OmpV-proteoliposome (PL). Additionally, we have shown that OmpV activates innate immune cells, such as monocytes, macrophages, and intestinal epithelial cells, in a Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2)-dependent manner. Interestingly, OmpV is recognized by the TLR1/2 heterodimer in monocytes, but by both TLR1/2 and TLR2/6 heterodimers in macrophages and intestinal epithelial cells. Further, downstream signaling involves MyD88, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) (both p38 and Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK)), and transcription factors NF-κB and AP-1. Due to its ability to efficiently activate both the innate and adaptive immune systems and protective efficacy, OmpV can be a potential vaccine candidate against S. Typhimurium infection. Further, the fact that OmpV can be recognized by both TLR1/2 and TLR2/6 heterodimers increases its potential to act as good adjuvant in other vaccine formulations.
Lactobacillus has been reported to inhibit acute lung injury (ALI). However, the molecular mechanism of Lactobacillus casei (L. casei) in preventing ALI has not been identified, so we investigated whether L. casei pretreatment could inhibit the activation of TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway following ALI. ALI model was established by intraperitoneal injection of 2 mg/kg lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to female BALB/c mice. In L. casei LC2W group, mice were intragastrically administrated L. casei LC2W for a week, before the ALI modeling. The serum of normal BALB/c mice after intragastric administration of L. casei LC2W was used for in vitro cell assays. The serum was pre-incubated with mouse macrophage cell line (RAW264.7) and human lung cell line (HLF-A), then LPS was added to co-incubate. Compared with ALI model group, L. casei LC2W pretreatment significantly reduced lung pathological damage, the number of neutrophils and total cells in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Besides, L. casei LC2W pretreatment could significantly reverse the abnormal expression of ICAM-1, IL-6, TNF-α and IL-10 in lung tissue and serum, plus, L. casei LC2W significantly reduced the phosphorylation levels of IRAK-1 and NF-κB p65. In vitro, the serum decreased the up-regulation of IL-6 and TNF-α in cell lines induced by LPS. In conclusion, L. casei LC2W intragastric administration pretreatment could significantly improve LPS-induced ALI in mice, probably through circulation to reach the lungs so as to inhibit the inflammatory response induced by activation of TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Neointimal hyperplasia (NIH) is the fundamental cause for vascular diseases and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dysregulation has been widely implicated in NIH. Neutrophil elastase is a potential therapeutic target for multiple diseases. We investigated the role of neutrophil elastase in VSMC functions and injury-induced NIH and explored the therapeutic potential of targeting neutrophil elastase in NIH.EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: VSMCs were used to analyse the effects of neutrophil elastase. Proteomic analysis was used to identify potential neutrophil elastase targets. Artery injury model and neutrophil elastase inhibitor GW311616A were used to investigate the role of neutrophil elastase in NIH.KEY RESULTS: TNF-α up-regulated neutrophil elastase in VSMCs through modulating GAPBα/Runx1/CEBPα/c-Myb signalling. Up-regulated neutrophil elastase promoted VSMC migration, proliferation and inflammation. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) was identified as a target protein for neutrophil elastase in VSMCs and the TLR4/MyD88/IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB regulatory axis was shown to be the signalling pathway for neutrophil elastase in VSMC pathology. Importantly, TLR4 inhibition abolished neutrophil elastase-mediated VSMC dysregulation. Injury-induced NIH was significantly reduced in both neutrophil elastase-deficient mice and mice treated with GW311616A. The formation of neutrophil extracellular traps was impaired in injured arteries from neutrophil elastase-deficient mice. Finally, a similar role for neutrophil elastase in human VSMC pathology was confirmed and we observed higher expression levels of neutrophil elastase but lower expression levels of TLR4 in human atherosclerotic lesions.CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: We provide new insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying NIH and identify neutrophil elastase as a potential therapeutic target for vascular disease.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) are associated with immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), the underlying mechanism has not been fully elucidated. Here, we attempted to investigate whether BMSCs can regulate Th17/Treg imbalance in ITP through the exosome pathway. We first assessed the proportions of Th17 cells and Tregs in ITP patients, showing that ITP patients exhibited an evident imbalance of Th17/Treg. BMSCs-exosomes' treatment significantly reduced Th17/Treg ratio in the CD4+ T cells of ITP patients. Moreover, miR-146a-5p was highly expressed in BMSCs-exosomes. The expression of miR-146a-5p was obviously increased in CD4+ T cells following the treatment of BMSCs-exosomes. BMSCs-exosomal miR-146a-5p silencing promoted the proportions of Th17 cells and repressed the proportions of Tregs in CD4+ T cells. In addition, miR-146a-5p directly interacted with IL-1R-associated kinase-1 (IRAK), and repressed IRAK1 expression. IRAK1 overexpression promoted Th17/Treg ratio in CD4+ T cells, which was abolished by BMSCs-exosomal miR-146a-5p. In conclusion, these findings demonstrate that BMSC-derived exosomal miR-146a-5p regulates Th17/Treg imbalance in ITP by repressing IRAK1 expression. Thus, this work suggests that BMSCs-exosomal miR-146a-5p may be a potential therapeutic target for ITP.
Calves born to multiparous Holstein cows fed during the last 30 d of pregnancy 2 different cobalt sources [cobalt glucoheptonate (CoPro) or cobalt pectin (CoPectin)], folic acid (FOA), and rumen-protected methionine (RPM) were used to study neonatal immune responses after ex vivo lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. Groups were (n = 12 calves/group) CoPro, FOA+CoPro, FOA+CoPectin, and FOA+CoPectin+RPM. Calves were weighed at birth and blood collected at birth (before colostrum), 21 d of age, and 42 d of age (at weaning). Growth performance was recorded once a week during the first 6 wk of age. Energy metabolism, inflammation, and antioxidant status were assessed at birth through various plasma biomarkers. Whole blood was challenged with 3 µg/mL of LPS or used for phagocytosis and oxidative burst assays. Target genes evaluated by real-time quantitative PCR in whole blood samples were associated with immune response, antioxidant function, and 1-carbon metabolism. The response in mRNA abundance in LPS challenged versus nonchallenged samples was assessed via Δ = LPS challenged - LPS nonchallenged samples. Phagocytosis capacity and oxidative burst activity were measured in neutrophils and monocytes, with data reported as ratio (percentage) of CD14 to CH138A-positive cells. Data including all time points were subjected to ANOVA using PROC MIXED in SAS 9.4 (SAS Institute Inc.), with Treatment, Sex, Age, and Treatment × Age as fixed effects. A 1-way ANOVA was used to determine differences at birth, with Treatment and Sex as fixed effects. Calf birth body weight and other growth parameters did not differ between groups. At birth, plasma haptoglobin concentration was lower in FOA+CoPro compared with CoPro calves. We detected no effect for other plasma biomarkers or immune function due to maternal treatments at birth. Compared with CoPro, in response to LPS challenge, whole blood from FOA+CoPectin and FOA+CoPectin+RPM calves had greater mRNA abundance of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1). No effect for other genes was detectable. Regardless of maternal treatments, sex-specific responses were observed due to greater plasma concentrations of haptoglobin, paraoxonase, total reactive oxygen metabolites, nitrite, and β-carotene in female versus male calves at birth. In contrast, whole blood from male calves had greater mRNA abundance of IRAK1, CADM1, and ITGAM in response to LPS challenge at birth. The longitudinal analysis of d 0, 21, and 42 data revealed greater bactericidal permeability-increasing protein (BPI) mRNA abundance in whole blood from FOA+CoPectin versus FOA+CoPro calves, coupled with greater abundance in FOA+CoPro compared with CoPro calves. Regardless of maternal treatments, most genes related to cytokines and cytokine receptors (IL1B, IL10, TNF, IRAK1, CXCR1), toll-like receptor pathway (TLR4, NFKB1), adhesion and migration (ICAM1, ITGAM), antimicrobial function (MPO), and antioxidant function (GPX1) were downregulated over time. Phagocytosis capacity and oxidative burst activity in both neutrophils and monocytes did not differ due to maternal treatment. Regardless of maternal treatments, we observed an increase in the percentage of neutrophils capable of phagocytosis and oxidative burst activity over time. Overall, these preliminary assessments suggested that maternal supplementation with FOA and Co combined with RPM had effects on a few plasma biomarkers of inflammation at birth and molecular responses associated with inflammatory mechanisms during the neonatal period.
BACKGROUND: Escherichia coli is the most common Gram-negative bacterium causing meningitis, and E. coli meningitis is associated with high mortality and morbidity throughout the world. Our previous study showed that E. coli can colonize the brain and cause neuroinflammation. Increasing evidence supports the involvement of miRNAs as key regulators of neuroinflammation. However, it is not clear whether these molecules participate in the regulation of meningitic E. coli-mediated neuroinflammation.METHODS: The levels of miR-155 and miR-146a, as well as their precursors, in E. coli-infected astrocytes were measured using quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). Overexpression and knockdown studies of miR-155 and miR-146a were performed to observe the effects on bacterial loads, cytokines, chemokines, and NF-κB signaling pathways. Bioinformatics methods were utilized to predict the target genes, and these target genes were validated using qPCR, Western blotting, and luciferase reporter system. In vivo knockdown of miR-155 and miR-146a was carried out to observe the effects on bacterial loads, inflammatory genes, astrocyte activation, microglia activation, and survival in a mouse model.RESULTS: The levels of miR-155, miR-146a, and their precursors were significantly increased in astrocytes during E. coli infection. miR-155 and miR-146a were induced by the NF-κB-p65 signaling pathway upon infection. Overexpressing and inhibiting miR-155 and miR-146a in astrocytes did not affect the bacterial loads. Further, the in vitro overexpression of miR-155 and miR-146a suppressed the E. coli-induced inflammatory response, whereas the inhibition of miR-155 and miR-146a enhanced it. Mechanistically, miR-155 inhibited TAB2, and miR-146a targeted IRAK1 and TRAF6; therefore, they functioned collaboratively to modulate TLR-mediated NF-κB signaling. In addition, both miR-155 and miR-146a could regulate the EGFR-NF-κB signaling pathway. Finally, the in vivo suppression of E. coli-induced miR-155 and miR-146a further promoted the production of inflammatory cytokines, aggravated astrocyte and microglia activation, and decreased mouse survival time, without affecting the bacterial loads in the blood and brain.CONCLUSIONS: E. coli infection induced miR-155 and miR-146a, which collectively regulated bacteria-triggered neuroinflammatory responses through negative feedback regulation involving the TLR-mediated NF-κB and EGFR-NF-κB signaling pathways, thus protecting the central nervous system from further neuroinflammatory damage.
A recurring feature of innate immune receptor signaling is the self-assembly of signaling proteins into oligomeric complexes. The Myddosome is an oligomeric complex that is required to transmit inflammatory signals from TLR/IL1Rs and consists of MyD88 and IRAK family kinases. However, the molecular basis for how Myddosome proteins self-assemble and regulate intracellular signaling remains poorly understood. Here, we developed a novel assay to analyze the spatiotemporal dynamics of IL1R and Myddosome signaling in live cells. We found that MyD88 oligomerization is inducible and initially reversible. Moreover, the formation of larger, stable oligomers consisting of more than four MyD88s triggers the sequential recruitment of IRAK4 and IRAK1. Notably, genetic knockout of IRAK4 enhanced MyD88 oligomerization, indicating that IRAK4 controls MyD88 oligomer size and growth. MyD88 oligomer size thus functions as a physical threshold to trigger downstream signaling. These results provide a mechanistic basis for how protein oligomerization might function in cell signaling pathways.
Diabetes increases the risk of bacterial infections. We investigated whether common genetic variants associate with infection susceptibility in Finnish diabetic individuals. We performed genome-wide association studies and pathway analysis for bacterial infection frequency in Finnish adult diabetic individuals (FinnDiane Study; N = 5092, Diabetes Registry Vaasa; N = 4247) using national register data on antibiotic prescription purchases. Replication analyses were performed in a Swedish diabetic population (ANDIS; N = 9602) and in a Finnish non-diabetic population (FinnGen; N = 159,166). Genome-wide data indicated moderate but significant narrow-sense heritability for infection susceptibility (h2 = 16%, P = 0.02). Variants on chromosome 2 were associated with reduced infection susceptibility (rs62192851, P = 2.23 × 10-7). Homozygotic carriers of the rs62192851 effect allele (N = 44) had a 37% lower median annual antibiotic purchase rate, compared to homozygotic carriers of the reference allele (N = 4231): 0.38 [IQR 0.22-0.90] and 0.60 [0.30-1.20] respectively, P = 0.01). Variants rs6727834 and rs10188087, in linkage disequilibrium with rs62192851, replicated in the FinnGen-cohort (P < 0.05), but no variants replicated in the ANDIS-cohort. Pathway analysis suggested the IRAK1 mediated NF-κB activation through IKK complex recruitment-pathway to be a mediator of the phenotype. Common genetic variants on chromosome 2 may associate with reduced risk of bacterial infections in Finnish individuals with diabetes.
INTRODUCTION: The incidence of perioperative neurocognitive disorders (PND) is higher in the elderly patients undergoing surgery. Microglia activation-mediated neuroinflammation is one of the hallmarks of PND. Galectin-1 has been identified as a pivotal modulator in the central nervous system (CNS), while the role of galectin-1 in PND induced by microglia-mediated neuroinflammation is still undetermined.METHODS: An exploratory laparotomy model anesthetized with isoflurane was employed to investigate the role of galectin-1 on PND in aged mice. Open field test and Morris water maze were used to test the cognitive function 3- or 7-days post-surgery. The activation of microglia in the hippocampus of aged mice was tested by immunohistochemistry. Western blot, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were employed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.RESULTS: Galectin-1 attenuated the cognitive dysfunction induced by surgery in aged mice and inhibited microglial activity. Moreover, galectin-1 decreased the expression level of inflammatory proteins (interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α), and prevented neuronal loss in the hippocampus. Galectin-1 inhibited the inflammation of BV2 microglial cells induced by lipopolysaccharide via decreasing the translocation of NF-κB p65 and c-Jun, while this kind of inhibition was rescued when overexpressing IRAK1.CONCLUSION: Our findings provide evidence that galectin-1 may inhibit IRAK1 expression, thus suppressing inflammatory response, inhibiting neuroinflammation, and improving ensuing cognitive dysfunction. Collectively, these findings unveil that galectin-1 may elicit protective effects on surgery-induced neuroinflammation and neurocognitive disorders.
Dipterocarpus tuberculatus Roxb. has been used traditionally as a remedy for many diseases, especially inflammation. Therefore, we analyzed and explored the mechanism of the anti-inflammatory effect of a Dipterocarpus tuberculatus Roxb. ethanol extract (Dt-EE). Dt-EE clearly and dose-dependently inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated RAW264.7 cells. Also, Dt-EE suppressed the activation of the MyD88/TRIF-mediated AP-1 pathway and the AP-1 pathway related proteins JNK2, MKK4/7, and TAK1, which occurred as a result of inhibiting the kinase activity of IRAK1 and IRAK4, the most upstream factors of the AP-1 pathway. Finally, Dt-EE displayed hepatoprotective activity in a mouse model of hepatitis induced with LPS/D-galactosamine (D-GalN) through decreasing the serum levels of alanine aminotransferase and suppressing the activation of JNK and IRAK1. Therefore, our results strongly suggest that Dt-EE could be a candidate anti-inflammatory herbal medicine with IRAK1/AP-1 inhibitory and hepatoprotective properties.
The current study aimed to investigate the effects of sodium butyrate on the level of colonic protein IRAK1 (interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1) in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) models as well as revealing the relationship between IRAKI level and visceral sensitivity during the progression of IBS. IBS symptoms were induced using TNBS (2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid) in mice and using IL-33 in HT-29 cells, which were then hanlded with sodium butyrate (100 mM for each mice and 0.05 M for HT-29 cells). The threshold of visceral pain and the expression of IRAKI in mice, and the level of IRAKI in HT-29 cells were detected. The data showed that the level of IRAK1 in IBS mice was higher than that in the control group, while the pre-treatment with sodium butyrate could solidy suppressed the level of IRAK1. Morevoer, it was found that the level of IRAK1 was negatively correlated with the pain threshold. In in vitro assays, the level of IRAK1 was firstly induced by IL-33 stimulation and then suppressed by sodium butyrate pretreatment. Collectively, the level of IRAKI showed an obvioulty positive relation with visceral hypersensitivity in IBS models, and the treatment with sodium butyrate could alleviate visceral hypersensitivity by inhibiting the expression of IRAKI.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a severe diabetes-induced eye disease, in which its pathological phenomena basically include abnormal proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis of microvascular endothelial cells in the retina. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been proven to be important regulators in various biological processes, but their participation in DR remains largely undiscovered. In the present study, we aimed to unveil the role of lncRNA small nucleolar RNA host gene 16 (SNHG16) in regulating the functions of human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (hRMECs) under a high-glucose (HG) condition. We found that SNHG16 expression was significantly upregulated in hRMECs treated with HG. Functionally, SNHG16 could facilitate hRMEC proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis. Moreover, SNHG16 was associated with nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT pathways. Mechanistically, SNHG16 could promote hRMEC dysfunction by sequestering microRNA (miR)-146a-5p and miR-7-5p to act as a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) with interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1). In conclusion, our results illustrated the potential role of SNHG16 in facilitating hRMEC dysfunction under HG treatment, providing a novel approach for DR therapy.
Impaired regulatory T-cell (Treg) responses and upregulated interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) expression are associated with the development of human systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Here, we show that the levels of upregulated IRAK1 expression in circulating Tregs are correlated with the percentages of apoptotic Tregs, Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index scores, and serum complement C3 levels in SLE patients. High levels of plasma interferon (IFN)-α in SLE patients induced IRAK1 phosphorylation to trigger Treg apoptosis, which was mitigated by IRAK1 inhibitor (IRAK-Inh) treatment. Bioinformatics indicated that IRAK1 activation was related to the IFN-α/β and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling in Tregs and IFN-α treatment induced the p38 and MAPK/ERK kinase 3/6 phosphorylation, which was attenuated by IRAK-Inh in Tregs. Treatment with IRAK-Inh effectively alleviated renal injury and promoted the survival of lupus-prone B6.MRL-Faslpr /Nju mice. Therefore, IFN-α induced IRAK1 activation to promote Treg apoptosis, contributing to the pathogenesis of SLE and IFN-α/IRAK1 may be therapeutic targets for SLE.
Depression is one of the major psychiatric diseases affecting the quality of life for individuals worldwide. Numerous reports have investigated depression, although its etiology remains to be elucidated. microRNA (miR)‑146a is suggested to regulate innate immune and inflammatory responses. However, it is unclear whether miR‑146a is involved in depression. Depression model mice were established using lipopolysaccharide‑induced depression and chronic unpredictable mild stress, separately. miR‑146a mimic and short interfering RNA were used to treat depressed mice. Depression‑like behaviors and levels of pro‑inflammatory cytokines were measured, while ionized calcium binding adapter molecule 1 (Iba‑1) expression in hippocampus was quantified by immunohistochemistry. Neuroinflammatory factor levels in hippocampus were measured by western blotting. BV‑2 cells were used to confirm that miR‑146a suppressed microglia activation. Compared with control mice, the two depressed mouse models showed clearly decreased sucrose preference and significantly increased immobility time in the forced swimming test and tail suspension test (P<0.05). miR‑146a overexpression significantly increased sucrose preference and reduced immobility time in depressed mice (P<0.05). However, total distance traveled in the locomotor activity test did not differ among groups. Compared with controls, expression levels of Iba‑1, inducible nitric oxide, IL‑1β, TNF‑α, interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor‑associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and phosphorylated NF‑κB p65 were significantly increased in depressed mice (P<0.05). miR‑146a overexpression effectively inhibited expression of these neuroinflammatory proteins, while miR‑146a silencing significantly upregulated their expression (P<0.05). Consistent with these in vivo results, miR‑146a mimic treatment inhibited TNF‑α, IL‑1β, IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression in BV‑2 cells. miR‑146a improved depressive behaviors in depressed model mice by inhibiting microglial activation and neuroinflammatory factor expression.
Tetrastigma hemsleyanum Diels et Gilg is a valuable Chinese medicinal herb with a long history of clinical application. Our previous study isolated and characterized a purified polysaccharide from the aerial part of Tetrastigma hemsleyanum (SYQP) and found it having antipyretic and antitumor effects in mice. A preliminary mechanistic study suggests these effects may be related to the binding of toll-like receptor (TLR4). The objective of this study is to further explore the detailed stimulating characteristics of SYQP on TLR4 signaling pathway and its in vivo immune regulating effect. We use HEK-BLUE hTLR4, mouse and human macrophage cell lines, as research tools. In vitro results show SYQP activated HEK-BLUE hTLR4 instead of HEK-BLUE Null cells. The secretion and the mRNA expression of cytokines related to TLR4 signaling significantly increased after SYQP treatment in both PMA-induced THP-1 and RAW264.7 macrophage cell lines. The TLR4 antagonist TAK-242 can almost completely abolish this activation. Furthermore, molecules such as IRAK1, NF-κB, MAPKs, and IRF3 in both the MyD88 and TRIF branches were all activated without pathway selection. In vivo results show SYQP enhanced antigen-specific spleen lymphocyte proliferation and serum IgG levels in OVA-immunized C57BL/6 mice. Orally administered 200 mg/kg SYQP induced obvious tumor regression, spleen weight increase, and the upregulation of the mRNA expression of TLR4-related cytokines in Lewis lung carcinoma-bearing mice. These results indicate SYQP can act as both a human and mouse TLR4 agonist and enhance immune responses in mice (p < 0.05). This study provides a basis for the development and utilization of SYQP as a new type of TLR4 agonist in the future.
This study tested the ability of lactoferrin to modulate pulmonary inflammation. To construct in vitro and in vivo inflammatory lung models, cells from the human lung adenocarcinoma cell line (A549) were exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 1 µg/mL), and mice (CD-1) were intratracheally administered LPS [10 mg/kg of body weight (BW), tracheal lumen injection], respectively. The A549 cells were preincubated with lactoferrin (10 mg/mL), and the mice were intraperitoneally injected with lactoferrin (100 mg/kg of BW), followed by LPS treatment. The concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and TNF-α) in culture medium of A549 cells and in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of the mice were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. The toll-like receptor 4-related pathway (TLR4/MyD88/IRAK1/TRAF6/NFκB) was determined at gene and protein expression levels in A549 cells and mouse lung tissue. Results showed that LPS treatment significantly elevated the concentrations of IL-1β and TNF-α in the A549 cell culture medium and in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of the mice; it also elevated both the mRNA and protein expressions of TLR4 and the TLR4 downstream factors in A549 cells and mouse lung tissue. Nevertheless, lactoferrin apparently depressed the releases of IL-1β and TNF-α from A549 cells and lung tissues stimulated by LPS, and significantly suppressed the TLR4 signaling pathway. Lactoferrin also promoted the enhancement of miR-146a expression in A549 cells and mouse lung tissue. Moreover, 100°C heating for 3 min caused total loss of the previously listed bioactivity of lactoferrin. Collectively, we proved that lactoferrin intervened in LPS-induced inflammation in the pulmonary cell model and in the mouse model, through inhibiting the TLR4-related pathway.
Isorhynchophylline (IRN) is an alkaloid with anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative activities in cardiovascular and brain diseases, but its role in paraquat (PQ)-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) is yet unknown. The model of PQ-induced AKI in rats was established by intraperitoneal injection of PQ (25 mg/kg). We found that the tail vein injection of IRN (4 mg/kg) significantly increased the survival rate of PQ-intoxicated rats. IRN administration alleviated PQ-induced renal injury and renal dysfunction in rats, as evidenced by decreased apoptosis in renal cortex and reduced serum creatinine, serum BUN, and urine NGAL levels. Furthermore, IRN treatment improved the PQ-triggered oxidative stress in renal cortex by increasing the levels of anti-oxidant indicators (SOD activity, GSH/GSSG ratio, levels of Nrf-2, NQO-1, and HO-1 in renal cortex) and decreasing the levels of oxidative stress indexes (ROS and MDA levels in renal cortex). Interestingly, toll-interacting protein (Tollip), a negative regulator of interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) phosphorylation, was demonstrated to be increased by IRN injection in the renal cortex of PQ-intoxicated rats. In vitro experiments revealed that IRN protected renal tubular epithelial cells against PQ toxicity through suppressing oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage, and these protective effects were reversed by Tollip shRNA. Collectively, the present study demonstrated that IRN ameliorated PQ-induced AKI by attenuating oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage through upregulating Tollip, which provides new insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of PQ poisoning.
BACKGROUND: Allergic disorders such as atopic dermatitis (AD) are strongly associated with an impairment of the epithelial barrier, in which tight junctions and/or filaggrin expression can be defective. Skin barrier assessment shows potential to be clinically useful for prediction of disease development, improved and earlier diagnosis, lesion follow-up, and therapy evaluation. This study aimed to establish a method to directly assess the in vivo status of epithelial barrier using electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS).METHODS: Thirty-six patients with AD were followed during their 3-week hospitalization and compared with 28 controls. EIS and transepidermal water loss (TEWL) were measured in lesional and non-lesional skin. Targeted proteomics by proximity extension assay in serum and whole-genome sequence were performed.RESULTS: Electrical impedance spectroscopy was able to assess epithelial barrier integrity, differentiate between patients and controls without AD, and characterize lesional and non-lesional skin of patients. It showed a significant negative correlation with TEWL, but a higher sensitivity to discriminate non-lesional atopic skin from controls. During hospitalization, lesions reported a significant increase in EIS that correlated with healing, decreased SCORAD and itch scores. Additionally, EIS showed a significant inverse correlation with serum biomarkers associated with inflammatory pathways that may affect the epithelial barrier, particularly chemokines such as CCL13, CCL3, CCL7, and CXCL8 and other cytokines, such as IRAK1, IRAK4, and FG2, which were significantly high at admission. Furthermore, filaggrin copy numbers significantly correlated with EIS on non-lesional skin of patients.CONCLUSIONS: Electrical impedance spectroscopy can be a useful tool to detect skin barrier dysfunction in vivo, valuable for the assessment of AD severity, progression, and therapy efficacy.
Prunus spinosa L. fruit (PSF) ethanol extract, showing a peculiar content of biologically active molecules (polyphenols), was investigated for its wound healing capacity, a typical feature that declines during aging and is negatively affected by the persistence of inflammation and oxidative stress. To this aim, first, PSF anti-inflammatory properties were tested on young and senescent LPS-treated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). As a result, PSF treatment increased miR-146a and decreased IRAK-1 and IL-6 expression levels. In addition, the PSF antioxidant effect was validated in vitro with DPPH assay and confirmed by in vivo treatments in C. elegans. Our findings showed beneficial effects on worms' lifespan and healthspan with positive outcomes on longevity markers (i.e., miR-124 upregulation and miR-39 downregulation) as well. The PSF effect on wound healing was tested using the same cells and experimental conditions employed to investigate PSF antioxidant and anti-inflammaging ability. PSF treatment resulted in a significant improvement of wound healing closure (ca. 70%), through cell migration, both in young and older cells, associated to a downregulation of inflammation markers. In conclusion, PSF extract antioxidant and anti-inflammaging abilities result in improved wound healing capacity, thus suggesting that PSF might be helpful to improve the quality of life for its beneficial health effects.
Author information:(1)Department of Geriatrics, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei 230061, China.(2)Graduate School of Anhui University of Chinese Medicine, Hefei 230000.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) participate in regulation of adaptive immune responses, and lymph nodes play key roles in the initiation of immune responses. There is a tolerance to the allogenic fetus during pregnancy, but it is unclear that expression of TLR signaling is in ovine lymph node during early pregnancy. In this study, lymph nodes were sampled from day 16 of nonpregnant ewes and days 13, 16, and 25 of pregnant ewes, and the expressions of TLR family (TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, TLR5 and TLR9), adaptor proteins, including myeloid differentiation primary-response protein 88 (MyD88), tumor necrosis factor receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and interleukin-1-receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), were analyzed through real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry analysis. The results showed that mRNA and protein levels of TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, TRAF6, and MyD88 were upregulated in the maternal lymph node, but TLR5, TLR9, and IRAK1 were downregulated during early pregnancy. In addition, MyD88 protein was located in the subcapsular sinus and lymph sinuses. Therefore, it is suggested that early pregnancy induces changes in TLR signaling in maternal lymph node, which may be involved in regulation of maternal immune responses in sheep.
BACKGROUND: Tiaochang Xiaoyan tablet (TCXYT) is a traditional Chinese medicine prescription derived from the Xianglian pill, which is a traditional Chinese medicine for treating chronic dysentery recorded in the Taiping Huimin Heji Bureau [1078-1085]. For many years, TCXYT has been used to treat ulcerative colitis, however, its therapeutic mechanism is still unclear. In the present study, we used colonic lamina propria macrophages (LPM) and mouse-derived macrophage cell line RAW264.7 cells as the research objects, with the aim of exploring the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of TCXYT on colitis.METHODS: We used 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) to induce a rat model of chronic colitis, and normal rats as the control. The disease activity index (DAI) and colonic histopathological changes of rats were used to evaluate the severity of colitis. Rats were divided into the control group; model group; high, middle-, and low-dose TCXYT group; and the hydroxychloroquine sulfate group. TCXYT was administered by gavage on the 3rd day after model replication and lasted for 7 days. The doses used for the high-, middle-, and low-dose TCXYT groups were 0.8, 0.4 and 0.2 g/kg, respectively. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to detect the serum concentration of cytokines. Western blot was used to detect the expressions of Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9), myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88), interleukin (IL) receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) 1, and IRAK4 in colonic LPM and RAW264.7 cells. Immunofluorescence was used to detect lysosomal activity. The chemical constituents of TCXYT were separated and identified based on Q-Orbitrap high resolution LC/MS data.RESULTS: TCXYT promoted the repair of colonic mucosal injury, attenuated inflammation, increased lysosome activity in macrophages, and decreased the DAI in rats with colitis compared with those in the model group. TCXYT decreased the serum concentrations of IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), increased those of IL-4 and IL-10, and decreased the TLR9, MyD88, IRAK1, and IRAK4 protein levels in LPM and RAW264.7 cells compared to the model group.CONCLUSIONS: TCXYT could ameliorate colon inflammation and CD11c+ macrophage infiltration in rats with chronic colitis. This effect may be mediated by activating lysosomes in macrophages by inhibiting the TLR9/MyD88/IRAK signaling pathway.
Thousands of human deaths occur annually due to Japanese encephalitis (JE), caused by Japanese encephalitis virus. During the virus infection of the central nervous system, reactive gliosis, uncontrolled inflammatory response, and neuronal cell death are considered as the characteristic features of JE. To date, no specific treatment has been approved to overcome JE, indicating a need for the development of novel therapies. In this article, we focused on basic biological mechanisms in glial (microglia and astrocytes) and neuronal cells that contribute to the onset of neuroinflammation and neuronal cell damage during Japanese encephalitis virus infection. We also provided comprehensive knowledge about anti-JE therapies tested in clinical or pre-clinical settings, and discussed recent therapeutic strategies that could be employed for JE treatment. The improved understanding of JE pathogenesis might lay a foundation for the development of novel therapies to halt JE.Abbreviations AKT: a serine/threonine-specific protein kinase; AP1: activator protein 1; ASC: apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD; ASK1: apoptosis signal-regulated kinase 1; ATF3/4/6: activating transcription factor 3/4/6; ATG5/7: autophagy-related 5/7; BBB: blood-brain barrier; Bcl-3/6: B-cell lymphoma 3/6 protein; CCL: C-C motif chemokine ligand; CCR2: C-C motif chemokine receptor 2; CHOP: C/EBP homologous protein; circRNA: circular RNA; CNS: central nervous system; CXCL: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand; dsRNA: double-stranded RNA; EDEM1: endoplasmic reticulum degradation enhancer mannosidase alpha-like 1; eIF2-ɑ: eukaryotic initiation factor 2 alpha; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERK: extracellular signal-regulated kinase; GRP78: 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein; ICAM: intercellular adhesion molecule; IFN: interferon; IL: interleukin; iNOS: inducible nitric oxide synthase; IRAK1/2: interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1/2; IRE-1: inositol-requiring enzyme 1; IRF: interferon regulatory factor; ISG15: interferon-stimulated gene 15; JE: Japanese encephalitis; JEV: Japanese encephalitis virus; JNK: c-Jun N-terminal kinase; LAMP2: lysosome-associated membrane protein type 2; LC3-I/II: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3-I/II; lncRNA: long non-coding RNA; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; miR/miRNA: microRNA; MK2: mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated protein kinase 2; MKK4: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4; MLKL: mixed-linage kinase domain-like protein; MMP: matrix metalloproteinase; MyD88: myeloid differentiation factor 88; Nedd4: neural precursor cell-expressed developmentally downregulated 4; NF-κB: nuclear factor kappa B; NKRF: nuclear factor kappa B repressing factor; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NMDAR: N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor; NO: nitric oxide; NS2B/3/4: JEV non-structural protein 2B/3/4; P: phosphorylation. p38: mitogen-activated protein kinase p38; PKA: protein kinase A; PAK4: p21-activated kinase 4; PDFGR: platelet-derived growth factor receptor; PERK: protein kinase R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PTEN: phosphatase and tensin homolog; Rab7: Ras-related GTPase 7; Raf: proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Raf; Ras: a GTPase; RIDD: regulated IRE-1-dependent decay; RIG-I: retinoic acid-inducible gene I; RIPK1/3: receptor-interacting protein kinase 1/3; RNF11/125: RING finger protein 11/125; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SHIP1: SH2-containing inositol 5' phosphatase 1; SOCS5: suppressor of cytokine signaling 5; Src: proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Src; ssRNA = single-stranded RNA; STAT: signal transducer and activator of transcription; TLR: toll-like receptor; TNFAIP3: tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 3; TNFAR: tumor necrosis factor alpha receptor; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor-alpha; TRAF6: tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6; TRIF: TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-β; TRIM25: tripartite motif-containing 25; VCAM: vascular cell adhesion molecule; ZO-1: zonula occludens-1.
Erratum in    J Thorac Dis. 2021 Jul;13(7):4623-4624.
Alphaviruses are arthropod-borne RNA viruses which can cause either mild to severe febrile arthritis which may persist for months, or encephalitis which can lead to death or lifelong cognitive impairments. The non-assembly molecular role(s), functions, and protein-protein interactions of the alphavirus capsid proteins have been largely overlooked. Here we detail the use of a BioID2 biotin ligase system to identify the protein-protein interactions of the Sindbis virus capsid protein. These efforts led to the discovery of a series of novel host-pathogen interactions, including the identification of an interaction between the alphaviral capsid protein and the host IRAK1 protein. Importantly, this capsid-IRAK1 interaction is conserved across multiple alphavirus species, including arthritogenic alphaviruses SINV, Ross River virus, and Chikungunya virus; and encephalitic alphaviruses Eastern Equine Encephalitis virus, and Venezuelan Equine Encephalitis virus. The impact of the capsid-IRAK1 interaction was evaluated using a robust set of cellular model systems, leading to the realization that the alphaviral capsid protein specifically inhibits IRAK1-dependent signaling. This inhibition represents a means by which alphaviruses may evade innate immune detection and activation prior to viral gene expression. Altogether, these data identify novel capsid protein-protein interactions, establish the capsid-IRAK1 interaction as a common alphavirus host-pathogen interface, and delineate the molecular consequences of the capsid-IRAK1 interaction on IRAK1-dependent signaling.
DOI: 10.1038/s41423-021-00649-0PMCID: PMC8167138PMID: 33664485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
The outcome of Leishmania donovani infection depends upon the dynamic interchanges between M1 and M2 macrophages. Information of the involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) and epigenetic modifiers in regulating macrophage plasticity during L. donovani infection is still elusive. Differential expression analysis of polarization-regulating miRNAs, revealed significant enrichment of miR146a-5p during Leishmania donovani infection. A sustained enrichment of miR146a-5p was observed in both infected bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDMs) and BALB/c mice organs. We found involvement of miR146a-5p in phagocytosis and survivability of parasites. Moreover, miR146a-5pgot enriched in interleukin 4- stimulated BMDMs, indicating its possible involvement in M2 polarization. Upon transfecting BMDMs with miRVANA anti-146a oligos, M2 markers (CCR7, YM-1, FIZZ-1, arginase-1, IL10 and IL4) and transcription factors (p-STAT6 and c/EBPβ) got depleted with concomitant augmentation of M1-polarizing transcription factors (p-STAT1, AP1 and IRF-1), miR146a target genes (TRAF6 and IRAK1), M1 cytokines (IL12 and TNFα), iNOS, nitric oxide, and nuclear translocation of phospho p-65 subunit. Neutralization of intracellular mature miR146a-5p pool in infected BALB/c mice lower organ parasite burden and expressions of M2 markers and IL10 with enrichment of M1 markers like iNOS and IL12. Additionally, we explored the novel role of super enhancer (SE), a cis-acting regulatory component, to enrich miR146a-5p expression during infection. Enhanced expression and nuclear retention of SE components like BET bromodomain 4 (BRD4) and p300 were found in infected BMDMs. Upon silencing BRD4, expressions of miR146a-5p and M2 markers were down regulated and TRAF6, IRAK1 and iNOS levels increased. STRING V.11 based predication and immune precipitation confirmed the strong interaction amongst BRD4, p300 and RNA pol II (RpbI). Chromatin immune precipitation studies suggested the recruitment of BRD4 at the enhancer loci of miR146a-5p gene during infection. Altogether, our findings revealed a novel role of BRD4/p300-depdendent super-enhancer in regulating miR146a expression during L. donovani infection which in turn mediates M2 polarization and immune-suppression.
Long non-coding RNA steroid receptor RNA activators (LncRNA SRAs) are implicated in the β-cell destruction of Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D), but functional association remains poorly understood. Here, we aimed to verify the role of LncRNA SRA regulation in β-cells. LncRNA SRAs were highly expressed in plasma samples and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from T1D patients. LncRNA SRA was strongly upregulated by high-glucose treatment. LncRNA SRA acts as a microRNA (miR)-146b sponge through direct sequence-structure interactions. Silencing of lncRNA SRA increased the functional genes of Tregs, resulting in metabolic reprogramming, such as decreased lactate levels, repressed lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA)/phosphorylated LDHA (pLDHA at Tyr10) expression, decreased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, increased ATP production, and finally, decreased β-cell apoptosis in vitro. There was a positive association between lactate level and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) level in the plasma from patients with T1D. Recombinant human interleukin (IL)-2 treatment repressed lncRNA SRA expression and activity in β-cells. Higher levels of lncRNA-SRA/lactate in the plasma are associated with poor regulation in T1D patients. LncRNA SRA contributed to T1D pathogenesis through the inhibition of miR-146b in β-cells, with activating signaling transduction of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1)/LDHA/pLDHA. Taken together, LncRNA SRA plays a critical role in the function of β-cells.
Despite the high heritability of schizophrenia (SCZ), details of its pathophysiology and etiology are still unknown. Recent findings suggest that aberrant inflammatory regulation and microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved. Here we performed a comparative analysis of the global miRNome of human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-astrocytes, derived from SCZ patients and healthy controls (CTRLs), at baseline and following inflammatory modulation using IL-1β. We identified four differentially expressed miRNAs (miR-337-3p, miR-127-5p, miR-206, miR-1185-1-3p) in SCZ astrocytes that exhibited significantly lower baseline expression relative to CTRLs. Group-specific differential expression (DE) analyses exploring possible distinctions in the modulatory capacity of IL-1β on miRNA expression in SCZ versus CTRL astroglia revealed trends toward altered miRNA expressions. In addition, we analyzed peripheral blood samples from a large cohort of SCZ patients (n = 484) and CTRLs (n = 496) screening for the expression of specific gene targets of the four DE miRNAs that were identified in our baseline astrocyte setup. Three of these genes, LAMTOR4, IL23R, and ERBB3, had a significantly lower expression in the blood of SCZ patients compared to CTRLs after multiple testing correction. We also found nominally significant differences for ERBB2 and IRAK1, which similarly displayed lower expressions in SCZ versus CTRL. Furthermore, we found matching patterns between the expressions of identified miRNAs and their target genes when comparing our in vitro and in vivo results. The current results further our understanding of the pathobiological basis of SCZ.
Human cancers arise through the sequential acquisition of somatic mutations that create successive clonal populations. Human cancer evolution models could help illuminate this process and inform therapeutic intervention at an early disease stage, but their creation has faced significant challenges. Here, we combined induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) and CRISPR-Cas9 technologies to develop a model of the clonal evolution of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Through the stepwise introduction of three driver mutations, we generated iPSC lines that, upon hematopoietic differentiation, capture distinct premalignant stages, including clonal hematopoiesis (CH) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), culminating in a transplantable leukemia, and recapitulate transcriptional and chromatin accessibility signatures of primary human MDS and AML. By mapping dynamic changes in transcriptomes and chromatin landscapes, we characterize transcriptional programs driving specific transitions between disease stages. We identify cell-autonomous dysregulation of inflammatory signaling as an early and persistent event in leukemogenesis and a promising early therapeutic target.
T cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL) is a highly aggressive haematological cancer of the bone marrow. The abnormal expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) is reportedly involved in T-ALL development and progression. Thus, we aimed to decipher the involvement of miR-204 silencing mediated by DNA methylation in the occurrence of T cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (T-ALL). miR-204 expression was determined in bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from T-ALL patients by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) with its effect on cell proliferation evaluated by functional assays. In addition, bisulphite sequencing PCR was employed to detect the DNA methylation level of the miR-204 promoter region, and the binding site between miR-204 and IRAK1 was detected by luciferase assay. We found that miR-204 was down-regulated in T cells of T-ALL patients, which was caused by the increased DNA methylation in the promoter region of miR-204. Moreover, overexpression of miR-204 inhibited T-ALL cell proliferation while enhancing their apoptosis through interleukin receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), which enhanced the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and MMP-9 through activation of p-p65. Thus, miR-204 modulated MMP-2 and MMP-9 through IRAK1/NF-κB signalling pathway, which was confirmed by in vivo assay. Taken together, DNA methylation-mediated miR-204 silencing increased the transcription of IRAK1, thus activating the NF-κB signalling pathway and up-regulating the downstream targets MMP-2/MMP-9.
Objective: MiRNAs are important regulators of inflammation and wound healing. However, the mechanisms through which miRNAs regulate wound healing under normal and diabetic conditions are poorly understood. We aimed to determine the effects of miR-146a on the pathogenesis of wound healing in normal and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice. Approach: Wild-type (WT) and miR-146a knockout (KO) mice were induced to develop diabetes with STZ. Next, skin and corneal wounds were produced and measured. Percent wound closure and histology were evaluated. Inflammation at wound sites was analyzed using flow cytometry, reverse-transcription PCR, and western blot. Results: Healing of wounded skin was significantly delayed in miR-146a KO compared with WT mice. However, corneal epithelial wound healing did not differ significantly in the mice with normal blood glucose, whereas corneal and skin wound healing was significantly delayed in KO mice with diabetes. Neutrophil infiltration increased in skin wounds of KO compared with normal mice. The potential mechanisms were associated with dysregulated interleukin 1β, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), IRAK1 (interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1), TRAF6 (TNF receptor-associated factor 6), and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling induced by miR-146a KO. Innovation: Skin wound healing was delayed in miR-146a KO mice and enhanced inflammatory responses were mediated by the NF-κB signaling pathway. Conclusions: Deficiency in miR-146a delayed skin wound healing by enhancing inflammatory responses in normal and diabetic mice. Therefore, miR-146a may be a potential target for modulation to accelerate skin wound healing.
Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) is an X-linked epigenetic modulator whose dosage is critical for neural development and function. Loss-of-function mutations in MECP2 cause Rett Syndrome (RTT, OMIM #312750) while duplications in the Xq28 locus containing MECP2 and Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) cause MECP2 duplication syndrome (MDS, OMIM #300260). Both are rare neurodevelopmental disorders that share clinical symptoms, including intellectual disability, loss of speech, hand stereotypies, vasomotor deficits and seizures. The main objective of this exploratory study is to identify novel signaling pathways and potential quantitative biomarkers that could aid early diagnosis and/or the monitoring of disease progression in clinical trials. We analyzed by RT-PCR gene expression in whole blood and microRNA (miRNA) expression in plasma, in a cohort of 20 females with Rett syndrome, 2 males with MECP2 duplication syndrome and 28 healthy controls, and correlated RNA expression with disease and clinical parameters. We have identified a set of potential biomarker panels for RTT diagnostic and disease stratification of patients with microcephaly and vasomotor deficits. Our study sets the basis for larger studies leading to the identification of specific miRNA signatures for early RTT detection, stratification, disease progression and segregation from other neurodevelopmental disorders. Nevertheless, these data will require verification and validation in further studies with larger sample size including a whole range of ages.
Innate immune response is an important response mechanism for the host to achieve self-protection, and it plays an important role in identifying pathogens and resisting pathogen invasion. Growing evidences have shown that microRNA functions as a crucial regulator involved in the host innate immune response. In this study, the regulations of miR-1388-5p to regulate NF-κB signaling pathways via targeting the IRAK1 gene was studied in miiuy croaker. First, through bioinformatics software prediction, we found that IRAK1 is the direct target of miR-1388-5p, and then the prediction results were verified by using dual-luciferase assays. Next, we found that both miR-1388-5p mimics and pre-miR-1388 plasmids inhibit IRAK1 expression by complementing the seed sequence in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of IRAK1. Finally, we observed that miR-1388-5p could negatively regulate NF-κB pathways through targeting IRAK1. These results provide new insights into the function of miR-1388-5p in fish innate immunity, meanwhile enriching miRNA-mediated regulatory networks.
Protein kinases are intracellular signaling enzymes that catalyze the phosphorylation of specific residues in their target substrate proteins. They play important role for regulation of life and death decisions. The complexity of the relationship between death receptors and protein kinases' cell death decision-making mechanisms create many difficulties in the treatment of various diseases. The most of fifteen different cell death pathways, which are reported by Nomenclature Committee on Cell Death (NCCD) are protein kinase signal transduction-mediated negative or positive selections. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) as a main player of death pathways is a dual-functioning molecule in that it can promote both cell survival or cell death. All apoptotic and necrotic signal transductions are conveyed through death domain-containing death receptors, which are expressed on the surface of nearly all human cells. In humans, eight members of the death receptor family have been identified. While the interaction of TNF with TNF Receptor 1 (TNFR1) activates various signal transduction pathways, different death receptors activate three main signal transduction pathways: nuclear factor kappa B (NF-ĸB)-mediated differentiation or pro-inflammatory cytokine synthesis, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated stress response and caspase-mediated apoptosis. The link between the NF-ĸB and the c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) pathways comprise another check-point to regulate cell death. TNF-α also promotes the "receptor-interacting serine/threonine protein kinase 1" (RIPK1)/RIPK3/ mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudokinase (MLKL)-dependent necrosis. Thus, necrosome is mainly comprised of MLKL, RIPK3 and, in some cases, RIPK1. In fact, RIPK1 is at the crossroad between life and death, downstream of various receptors as a regulator of endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced death. TNFR1 signaling complex (TNF-RSC), which contains multiple kinase activities, promotes phosphorylation of transforming growth factor β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), inhibitor of nuclear transcription factor κB (IκB) kinase (IKK) α/IKKβ, IκBα, and NF-κB. IKKs affect cell-survival pathways in NF-κB-independent manner. Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation triggers various signaling pathways dependent on myeloid differentiation factor-88 (MyD88), Interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R)-associated kinase (IRAK1), IRAK2 and IRAK4, lead to post-translational activation of nucleotide and oligomerization domain (NLRP3). Thereby, cell fate decisions following TLR signaling is parallel with death receptor signaling. Inhibition of IKKα/IKKβ or its upstream activators sensitize cells to death by inducing RIPK1-dependent apoptosis or necroptosis. During apoptosis, several kinases of the NF-κB pathway, including IKK1 and NF-κB essential modulator (NEMO), are cleaved by cellular caspases. This event can terminate the NF-κB-derived survival signals. In both canonical and non-canonical pathways, IKK is key to NF-κB activation. Whereas, the activation process of IKK, the functions of NEMO ubiquitination, IKK-related non-canonical pathway and the nuclear transportation of NEMO and functions of IKKα are still debated in cell death. In addition, cluster of differentiation 95 (CD95)-mediated non-apoptotic signaling and CD95- death-inducing signaling complex (DISC) interactions are waiting for clarification.
In vasculitis disorders, inflammation affects blood vessels. Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) is a chronic systemic vasculitis distinguished by the presence of anti-proteinase-3 autoantibodies (anti-PR3). In this study we analyzed the molecular signature of human umbilical endothelial cells (HUVECs) in response to neutrophil-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs). EVs were obtained from anti-PR3-activated neutrophils, purified and characterized by flow cytometry, nanoparticle tracking and miRNA screening. HUVECs were stimulated with EVs and miRNA/mRNA expression was measured. Cell culture media proteins were identified by antibody microarrays and selected cytokines were measured. Comparison of differentially expressed miRNAs/mRNAs between non-stimulated and EV-stimulated HUVECs revealed two regulatory patterns. Significant up-regulation of 14 mRNA transcripts (including CXCL8, DKK1, IL1RL1, ANGPT-2, THBS1 and VCAM-1) was accompanied by 11 miRNAs silencing (including miR-661, miR-664a-3p, miR-377-3p, miR-30d-5p). Significant down-regulation was observed for nine mRNA transcripts (including FASLG, CASP8, STAT3, GATA3, IRAK1 and IL6) and accompanied by up-regulation of 10 miRNAs (including miR-223-3p, miR-142-3p, miR-211-5p). Stimulated HUVECs released IL-8, Dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK-1), soluble interleukin (IL)-1 like receptor-1 (ST2), growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15), angiopoietin-2, endoglin, thrombospondin-1 and vascular adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1). Moreover, transfection of HUVECs with mimics of highly expressed in EVs miR-223-3p or miR-142-3p, stimulated production of IL-8, ST2 and endoglin. Cytokines released by HUVECs were also elevated in blood of patients with GPA. The most increased were IL-8, DKK-1, ST2, angiopoietin-2 and IL-33. In-vitro stimulation of HUVECs by neutrophil-derived EVs recapitulates contribution of endothelium in autoimmune vasculitis. Proinflammatory phenotype of released cytokines corresponds with the regulatory network of miRNAs/mRNAs comprising both EVs miRNA and endothelial cell transcripts.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic multifactorial inflammatory bowel disease that severely impairs patients' life quality. microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to exhibit potential therapeutic effects in the management of UC. With the aim to investigate the regulatory effects of miR-330 on UC-related colon tissue damage and inflammation, a rat model of experimental colitis was established by oral administration of dextran sodium sulfate (DSS). DSS-treated rats showed mucosal damage, colonic inflammation, and elevated myeloperoxidase activity compared with the healthy controls. Dual-luciferase reporter assay confirmed the binding of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and miR-330. Subsequently, rats were intracolonically injected with miR-330 argomir with/without administration of IRAK1 during DSS treatment. The miR-330 overexpression reduced DSS-induced colonic injury and the production of proinflammatory cytokines. The level of IRAK1 was negatively regulated by the expression of miR-330. IRAK1 overexpression abolished the protective effect of miR-330 on DSS-induced colonic inflammation and mucosal injury in rats. In conclusion, we clarify the role of miR-330 in pathogenesis of UC, suggesting miR-330 alleviated DSS-induced colitis by downregulating IRAK1, shedding lights on miR-330 as a therapeutic candidate for UC treatment.
Depression is the neurological manifestation most commonly associated with gastrointestinal diseases. The release of inflammatory cytokines mediated by TLR4/NLRP3 inflammasome signaling-induced immunoinflammatory activation may represent a common pathogenic process underlying the development of gastrointestinal diseases and depression. Clinical studies have indicated that Xiaoyaosan (XYS) can relieve depressive behavior by improving gastrointestinal symptoms. We previously demonstrated that XYS can reduce colonic inflammation in a rat model of chronic unpredictable mild stress; however, the precise anti-inflammatory mechanisms involved remain unclear. Here, we investigated whether XYS can ameliorate depressive behavior through regulating the TLR4/NLRP3 inflammasome signaling pathway, thereby inhibiting immunoinflammatory activation and reducing colonic proinflammatory cytokine levels. Fifty-two healthy male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups (control, model, XYS, and fluoxetine). The latter three groups were subjected to 21 days of chronic restraint stress to generate a model of stress-induced depression. XYS and fluoxetine were administered intragastrically. Behavioral changes in the rats were assessed after 21 days. Serum and colon samples were collected, and the relative levels of the inflammation indicators IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α were determined by ELISA. Pathological changes in colon tissue were assessed by hematoxylin and eosin staining. The levels of TLR4, MyD88, NF-κB-p65, TAK1, IRAK1, and TRAF6 were detected by immunohistochemistry, while the gene and protein expression levels of TLR4, MyD88, NF-κB-p65, TAK1, IRAK1, TRAF6, NLRP3, ASC, and caspase-1 were detected by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and Western blotting. The results indicated that XYS could improve the depressive-like behavior and the weight loss of rats with stress-induced depression. Furthermore, depressed rats treated with XYS exhibited decreased expression levels of TLR4, MyD88, NF-κB-p65, TAK1, IRAK1, TRAF6, NLRP3, ASC, and caspase-1 in colonic tissue; reduced colon and serum concentrations of the inflammatory factors IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α; and lowered levels of colonic inflammation.
Peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV) is an important pathogen that seriously influences the productivity of small ruminants worldwide. PPRV has evolved several mechanisms to evade IFN-I responses. We report that a novel microRNA in goat PBMCs, novel miR-3, was upregulated by PPRV to facilitate virus infection. Furthermore, PPRV V protein alone was sufficient to induce novel miR-3 expression, and NF-κB and p38 pathway may involved in the induction of novel miR-3 during PPRV infection. Importantly, we demonstrated that novel miR-3 was a potent negative regulator of IFN-α production by targeting IRAK1, which resulted in the enhancement of PPRV infection. In addition, we found that PPRV infection can activated ISGs through IFN independent and IRF3 dependent pathway. Moreover, our data revealed that novel miR-3 mediated regulation of IFN-α production may involve in the differential susceptibility between goat and sheep to PPRV. Taken together, our findings identified a new strategy taken by PPRV to escape IFN-I-mediated antiviral immune responses by engaging cellular microRNA and, thus, improve our understanding of its pathogenesis.IMPORTANCE: Peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV) induce in the hosts a transient but severe immunosuppression, which threatens both small livestock and endangered susceptible wildlife populations in many countries. Despite extensive research has been explored, the mechanism underlying PPRV immune system evasion remains elusive. Our data provided the first direct evidence that novel microRNA-3 (novel miR-3) feedback inhibits type I IFN signaling when goat PBMCs are infected with PPRV vaccine strain N75/1, thus promoting the infection. In this study, the target of novel miR-3, IRAK1, which are important for PPRV-induced type I IFN production, have also been found. Moreover, we identified NF-κB and p38 pathways may involve in novel miR-3 induction in response to PPRV infection. Taken together, our research has provided new insight into understanding the effects of miRNA on host-virus interactions, and revealed a potential therapeutic target for antiviral intervention.
To investigate the therapeutic mechanism of action of transplanted stem cells and develop exosome-based nanotherapeutics for ischemic stroke, we assessed the effect of exosomes (Exos) produced by human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUMSCs) on microglia-mediated neuroinflammation after ischemic stroke. Our results found that injected hUMSC-Exos were able to access the site of ischemic damage and could be internalized by cells both in vivo and in vitro. In vitro, treatment with hUMSC-Exos attenuated microglia-mediated inflammation after oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). In vivo results demonstrated that treatment with hUMSC-Exos significantly reduced infarct volume, attenuated behavioral deficits, and ameliorated microglia activation, as measured three days post-transient brain ischemia. Furthermore, miR-146a-5p knockdown (miR-146a-5p k/d Exos) partially reversed the neuroprotective effect of hUMSC-Exos. Our mechanistic study demonstrated that miR-146a-5p in hUMSC-Exos reduces microglial-mediated neuroinflammatory response through IRAK1/TRAF6 pathway. We conclude that miR-146a-5p derived from hUMSC-Exos can attenuate microglia-mediated neuroinflammation and consequent neural deficits following ischemic stroke. These results elucidate a potential therapeutic mechanism of action of mesenchymal stem cells and provide evidence that hUMSC-Exos represent a potential cell-free therapeutic option for ischemic stroke.
The thick shell mussel Mytilus coruscus has developed into a model species for studying the interaction between molluscs and environmental stimuli. Herein, integrated analysis of miRNAome and transcriptome was performed to reveal miRNA-mRNA network regulation in Vibrio alginolyticus infected M. coruscus. There have detected some histological abnormalities in digestive gland and gills of V. alginolyticus challenged mussels, ascertaining the effective irritation by the present bacterial strain. A total of 265 novel miRNAs were finally predicted, of which 26 were differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs). Additionally, 667 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected, which may be potentially associated with innate immune response to V. alginolyticus infection. A regulatory network linked to 22 important pathways and 16 DEMs and 34 OGs was constructed. Some traditional immune-related signaling pathways such as toll-like receptor signaling pathway (TLR) signaling pathway, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling pathway, peroxisome, phagosome, lysosome, mammalian target of rapamyoin (mTOR) signaling pathway were linked to specific miRNAs and genes in this network. Further, interactional relationship between certain miRNAs and TLR pathway was dissected, which the results predicted that a number of TLRs and TLR-associated signaling genes including TLR1, TLR2, TLR4, TLR6, IRAK1, TRAF6, MAPK, and IL-17 were negatively regulated by novel_miR_11, novel_miR_145, novel_miR_196, novel_miR_5, novel_miR_163 and novel_miR_217 in the TLR pathway. Additionally, interactional relationship between novel_miR_145 and TLR2 was validated by laboratory experiment. The integrated analysis of mRNA and microRNA deep sequencing data exhibited a sophisticated miRNA-mRNA regulation network in M. coruscus in response to V. alginolyticus challenge, which shed a new light on the underlying mechanism of molluscan confronting bacterial infection.
INTRODUCTION: Anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 suppresses pro-inflammatory IL-12b expression after Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation in colonic macrophages, as part of the innate immunity Toll-Like Receptor (TLR)-NF-κB activation system. This homeostatic mechanism limits excess inflammation in the intestinal mucosa, as it constantly interacts with the gut flora. This effect is reversed with Histone Deacetylase 3 (HDAC3), a class I HDAC, siRNA, suggesting it is mediated through HDAC3. Given alveolar macrophages' prominent role in Acute Lung Injury (ALI), we aim to determine whether a similar regulatory mechanism exists in the typically sterile pulmonary microenvironment.METHODS: Levels of mRNA and protein for IL-10, and IL-12b were determined by qPCR and ELISA/Western Blot respectively in naïve and LPS-stimulated alveolar macrophages. Expression of the NF-κB intermediaries was also similarly assessed. Experiments were repeated with AS101 (an IL-10 protein synthesis inhibitor), MS-275 (a selective class 1 HDAC inhibitor), or both.RESULTS: LPS stimulation upregulated all proinflammatory mediators assayed in this study. In the presence of LPS, inhibition of IL-10 and/or class 1 HDACs resulted in both synergistic and independent effects on these signaling molecules. Quantitative reverse-transcriptase PCR on key components of the TLR4 signaling cascade demonstrated significant diversity in IL-10 and related gene expression in the presence of LPS. Inhibition of IL-10 secretion and/or class 1 HDACs in the presence of LPS independently affected the transcription of MyD88, IRAK1, Rela and the NF-κB p50 subunit. Interestingly, by quantitative ELISA inhibition of IL-10 secretion and/or class 1 HDACs in the presence of LPS independently affected the secretion of not only IL-10, IL-12b, and TNFα, but also proinflammatory mediators CXCL2, IL-6, and MIF. These results suggest that IL-10 and class 1 HDAC activity regulate both independent and synergistic mechanisms of proinflammatory cytokine/chemokine signaling.CONCLUSIONS: Alveolar macrophages after inflammatory stimulation upregulate both IL-10 and IL-12b production, in a highly class 1 HDAC-dependent manner. Class 1 HDACs appear to help maintain the balance between the pro- and anti-inflammatory IL-12b and IL-10 respectively. Class 1 HDACs may be considered as targets for the macrophage-initiated pulmonary inflammation in ALI in a preclinical setting.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a main reason for neonatal death. Studying the molecular mechanism behind neonatal ALI is critical for the development of therapeutic strategies. The present study explored microRNA (miR)-490-3p-mediated regulatory effects on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced neonatal ALI. Initially, LPS (10 mg/kg body weight) was injected to 3-8 day old neonatal SD rats to induce ALI, and LPS (100 ng/ml) was used to treat lung epithelial cells to construct an ALI model in vitro. Next, miR-490-3p, pro-inflammatory factors (that included IL-1β, IL-6 and TNFα), interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6) mRNA expression levels in lung tissues and epithelial cells were assessed via reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. In addition, miR-490-3p mimics were adopted to construct its overexpressed cell model, and Cell Counting Kit-8 and BrdU assays were conducted to assess cell viability. Furthermore, the miR-490-3p target, IRAK was predicted by bioinformatics analysis and verified via Dual-luciferase reporter gene assay. The results revealed that miR-490-3p was markedly downregulated in an LPS-induced rat ALI model, while IL-1β, IL-6, TNFα, IRAK1 and TRAF6 were all upregulated and negatively correlated with miR-490-3p expression. Moreover, overexpressed miR-490-3p significantly inhibited LPS-induced lung epithelial cell injury and inflammatory response. Mechanistically, miR-490-3p targeted and attenuated IRAK1 expression, which thus inactivated the LPS-mediated TRAF6/NF-κB pathway. Overall, the present study indicated that miR-490-3p overexpression significantly inhibited LPS-induced ALI and inflammatory responses by restricting the IRAK1/TRAF6 pathway.
We performed a thorough screening and analysis of the impact of cadmium chloride (CdCl2) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on the miR146a/NF-κB p65 inflammatory pathway and mitochondrial biogenesis dysfunction in male albino rats. A total of 24 male albino rats were divided into three groups: a control group, a CdCl2-treated group (3 mg/kg, orally), and a CdCl2 + NAC-treated group (200 mg/kg of NAC, 1 h after CdCl2 treatment), for 60 consecutive days. Real-time quantitative PCR was used to analyze the expression of miR146a, Irak1, Traf6, Nrf1, Nfe2l2, Pparg, Prkaa, Stat3, Tfam, Tnfa, and Il1b, whereas tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, and cyclooxygenase-2 protein levels were assessed using ELISA, and NF-κB p65 was detected using western blotting. A significant restoration of homeostatic inflammatory processes as well as mitochondrial biogenesis was observed after NAC and CdCl2 treatment. Decreased miR146a and NF-κB p65 were also found after treatment with NAC and CdCl2 compared with CdCl2 treatment alone. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that CdCl2 caused mtDNA release because of Tfam loss, leading to NF-κB p65 activation. Co-treatment with NAC could alleviate Cd-induced genotoxicity in liver tissue. We concluded that adding NAC to CdCl2 resulted in a decreased signaling of the NF-κB p65 signaling pathway.
CONTEXT: Sauropus brevipes Müll. Arg. (Phyllanthaceae) has been used as an effective ingredient in a decoction for the treatment of diarrhoea. However, there was no report on its modulatory role in inflammation.OBJECTIVE: This study investigates anti-inflammatory effect of S. brevipes in various inflammation models.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The aerial part of S. brevipes was extracted with 95% ethanol to produce Sb-EE. RAW264.7 cells pre-treated with Sb-EE were stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and Griess assay and PCR were performed. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis, luciferase assay, Western blotting and kinase assay were employed. C57BL/6 mice (10 mice/group) were orally administered with Sb-EE (200 mg/kg) once a day for five days, and peritonitis was induced by an intraperitoneal injection of LPS (10 mg/kg). ICR mice (four mice/group) were orally administered with Sb-EE (20 or 200 mg/kg) or ranitidine (positive control) twice a day for two days, and EtOH/HCl was orally injected to induce gastritis.RESULTS: Sb-EE suppressed nitric oxide (NO) release (IC50=34 µg/mL) without cytotoxicity and contained flavonoids (quercetin, luteolin and kaempferol). Sb-EE (200 µg/mL) reduced the mRNA expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS). Sb-EE blocked the activities of Syk and Src, while inhibiting interleukin-1 receptor associated kinases (IRAK1) by 68%. Similarly, orally administered Sb-EE (200 mg/kg) suppressed NO production by 78% and phosphorylation of Src and Syk in peritonitis mice. Sb-EE also decreased inflammatory lesions in gastritis mice.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the inhibitory effect of Sb-EE on the inflammatory response, suggesting that Sb-EE can be developed as a potential anti-inflammatory agent.
BACKGROUND: Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is a rare condition that is distinguished by the presence of specific U1-RNP antibodies. Information about its etiopathology and diagnostics is still unclear. miRNAs such as miR-146, miR-155, and miR-143 emerged as key regulators of the immune system, known to be involved in the development of autoimmune diseases and cancers. We performed an association study between immune-related miRNAs and MCTD severity and susceptibility.METHODS: A total of 169 MCTD patients and 575 healthy subjects were recruited to the case-control study. The miRNA polymorphisms were genotyped using TaqMan SNP genotyping assay. TNF-α, IL-6, and IFN-γ levels in serum were determined using ELISA. qRT-PCR of TRAF6, IRAK1, and microRNAs was performed using Taqman miRNA assays and TaqMan Gene Expression Assays.RESULTS: miR-146a rs2910164 G allele and GG genotype as well as miR-143 rs713147 A allele were more frequent in healthy subjects than in MCTD patients. miR-146a rs2910164 CC genotype and miR-143 T-rs353299*T-rs353291*T-rs713147*G-rs353298 and C-rs353299*C-rs353291*T-rs713147*A-rs353298 haplotypes were associated with MCTD susceptibility. miR-146a rs2910164 C/T was associated with scleroderma and lymphadenopathy. miR-143 rs353299 C/T was associated with swollen fingers or hands, the presence of enlarged lymph nodes, and pericarditis/pleuritis. miR-143 rs353298 A/G was associated with the occurrence of pericarditis/pleuritis and scleroderma. miR-143 rs353291 T/C showed association with pericarditis/pleuritis. The serum TNF-α, IFN-γ, and IL-6 levels were significantly higher in MCTD patients compared to healthy subjects. miR-143 SNPs were associated with higher proinflammatory cytokine concentration in serum only in healthy controls. IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression were higher in the MCTD patients compared to controls.CONCLUSIONS: The results of our case-control study indicate the possible significance of miR-146a and miR-143/145 in the susceptibility and clinical picture of MCTD.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disorder that commonly affects multiple joints of the body. Currently, there is no permanent cure to the disease, but it can be managed with several potent drugs that cause serious side effects on prolonged use. Traditional remedies are considered promising for the treatment of several diseases, particularly chronic conditions, because they have lower side effects compared to synthetic drugs. In folklore, the rhizome of Alpinia calcarata Roscoe (Zingiberaceae) is used as a major ingredient of herbal formulations to treat RA. Phytoconstituents reported in A. calcarata rhizomes are diterpenoids, sesquiterpenoid, flavonoids, phytosterol, and volatile oils. The present study is intended to understand the molecular-level interaction of phytoconstituents present in A. calcarata rhizomes with RA molecular targets using computational approaches. A total of 30 phytoconstituents reported from the plant were used to carry out docking with 36 known targets of RA. Based on the docking results, 4 flavonoids were found to be strongly interacting with the RA targets. Further, molecular dynamics simulation confirmed stable interaction of quercetin with 6 targets (JAK3, SYK, MMP2, TLR8, IRAK1, and JAK1), galangin with 2 targets (IRAK1 and JAK1), and kaempferol (IRAK1) with one target of RA. Moreover, the presence of these three flavonoids was confirmed in the A. calcarata rhizome extract using LC-MS analysis. The computational study suggests that flavonoids present in A. calcarata rhizome may be responsible for RA modulatory activity. Particularly, quercetin and galangin could be potential development candidates for the treatment of RA. Investigation of Alpinia calcarata constituent interactions with molecular targets of rheumatoid arthritis: docking, molecular dynamics, and network approach.
Novel strategies to treat late-stage nasopharyngeal carcinoma that often develop resistance to chemotherapy remains an unmet clinical demand. In this study, we identify the multi-kinase inhibitor pacritinib as capable of resensitizing the response to paclitaxel in an acquired resistance model. Transcriptome analysis of paclitaxel-sensitive and -resistant cell lines, as well as chemorefractory clinical samples, identified S100A9 as the top candidate gene suppressed by pacritinib and whose overexpression was significantly associated with paclitaxel resistance and poor clinical outcome. Moreover, both paclitaxel-resistant nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells and relapsed/metastatic clinical samples exhibited increased IRAK1 phosphorylation and demonstrated that pacritinib could abolish the IRAK1 phosphorylation to suppress S100A9 expression. Functional studies in both in vitro and in vivo models showed that genetic or pharmacologic blockade of IRAK1 overcame the resistance to paclitaxel, and combined treatment of pacritinib with paclitaxel exhibited superior antitumor effect. Together, these findings demonstrate an important role for the IRAK1-S100A9 axis in mediating resistance to paclitaxel. Furthermore, targeting of IRAK1 by pacritinib may provide a novel therapeutic strategy to overcome chemoresistance in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. SIGNIFICANCE: Deregulation of the IRAK1-S100A9 axis correlates with poor prognosis, contributes to chemoresistance in nasopharyngeal carcinoma, and can be targeted by pacritinib to overcome chemoresistance in nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
This study set out to investigate the effect of massage on the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signalling pathway in the dorsal root ganglia of rats that had undergone spinal nerve ligation (SNL), with the hypothesis that massage could be used as an analgesic. Forty female SD rats were randomly divided into 5 groups: the control group, sham-operated group, model group, sham massage group, and massage group. There were 8 rats in each group. SNL rat models were established in the model group, sham massage group, and massage group. Rats in the sham-operated group underwent surgery to expose the vertebral nerves, but no further procedures were performed. The control group consisted of intact animals. The rats in the massage group underwent massage using a massage simulation machine once a day for 14 d in succession; the hind limbs of the rats in the sham massage group were gently touched with a cloth bag once a day for 14 continuous days. The rats in the control group, the sham-operated group, and the model group did not receive any intervention and were observed for 14 d. Paw withdrawal thermal latency (PWTL) and paw withdrawal mechanical threshold (PWMT) of rats in each group were detected 1 d before modelling and at 1, 3, 7, and 14 d after modelling. Fourteen days after modelling, the expression levels of TLR4, IRAK1, TRAF6, TNF-α, and IL-6 were detected in all rats. The PWTL and PWMT of SNL rats were decreased, while these parameters were elevated after massage. SNL rats showed higher levels of TLR4, IRAK1, TRAF6, IL-6, and TNF-α, and massage effectively lowered the expression levels of these molecules. Inhibiting activation of the TLR4 signalling pathway, which can reduce the release of inflammatory factors, may be one mechanism by which massage treats neuropathic pain.
Author information:(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Guangzhou First People's Hospital, School of Medicine, South China University of Technology , Guangzhou, China.
INTRODUCTION: Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) was shown to contribute to a variety of cancer-related processes. However, the function of IRAK1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) pathogenesis has not been investigated in detail.METHODS: IRAK1 expression in HCC was examined by immunohistochemistry, qRT-PCR, and Western blot assays. In addition, Huh7 and Hep3B cells were transfected with IRAK1 siRNAs and/or a NOD-like receptor family pyrindomain containing 3 (NLRP3) plasmid. Western blot, EdU staining, and Transwell assays were performed to determine changes of apoptosis, proliferation, migration, and invasion in HCC cells. Moreover, changes in the expression of proteins involved in the MAPKs/NLRP3/IL-1β pathway were confirmed by Western blotting.RESULTS: IRAK1 was found to be highly upregulated in HCC tissues and cells. Knockdown of IRAK1 signaling prevented the proliferation, invasion, migration, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of HCC cells. Mechanistically, we found that activation of the MAPKs/NLRP3/IL-1β pathway could be markedly suppressed by IRAK1 knockdown in HCC cells. Furthermore, our data showed that NLRP3 could partially reverse the reduced aggressive biological behaviors of HCC cells which were caused by RAK1 knockdown.CONCLUSION: Knockdown of IRAK1 prevented HCC progression by inhibiting the ability of NLRP3 to block the MAPKs/IL-1β pathway, suggesting that approach as a strategy for treating HCC.
Erratum for    Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2019 Dec 16;2019:6879346.
Breast cancer stands as the most prevalent cancer in women globally, and contributes to the highest percentage of mortality due to cancer-related deaths in women. Paclitaxel (PTX) is heavily relied on as a frontline chemotherapy drug in breast cancer treatment, especially in advanced metastatic cancer. Generation of resistance to PTX often derails clinical management and adversely affects patient outcomes. Understanding the molecular mechanism of PTX resistance is necessary to device methods to aid in overcoming the resistance. Recent studies exploring the mechanism of development of PTX resistance have led to unveiling of a range novel therapeutic targets. PTX resistance pathways that involve major regulatory proteins/RNAs like RNF8/Twist/ROR1, TLR, ErbB3/ErbB2, BRCA1- IRIS, MENA, LIN9, MiRNA, FoxM1 and IRAK1 have expanded the complexity of resistance mechanisms, and brought newer insights into the development of drug targets. These resistance-related targets can be dealt with synthetic/natural therapeutics in combination with PTX. The present review encompasses the recent understanding of PTX resistance mechanisms in breast cancer and possible therapeutic combinations to overcome resistance.
AIM: Poor nutritional effect of junk food induces injuries to the liver and the brain but still most of the developing nations survive on these diets to compensate for the fast-paced lifestyle. The aim of the study is to infer the protein-connections behind the liver-brain axis and identify the role of these proteins in causing neurodegenerative disorders.BACKGROUND: Chronic consumption of fructose and fat-rich food works as a toxin in the body and has the ability to cause a negative metabolic shift. Recently a study was published in Annals of Internal Medicine (2019) citing the loss of vision and hearing in a 14-year-old boy whose diet was strictly restricted to fries and junk-food for almost a decade. This puts the entire body on insulin resistance and related co-morbidities and causes simultaneous damaging effects on the liver as well as the brain. This work provides insights into the liver-brain axis and explains how the liver is involved in brain related disorders.OBJECTIVE: In this study, transcriptomic data related to chronic eating of junk-food was analyzed and simultaneous damage that happens in the liver and the brain was assessed at the molecular level.METHODS: Transcriptomic study was taken from the GEO database and analysed to find out the genes dysregulated in both the liver and the brain during this metabolic stress. Cytoscapev3.7 was used to decipher the signalling between the liver and the brain. This connection between both is called as the liver-brain axis.RESULT: The results obtained from our study indicate the role of TUBB5-HYOU1-SDF2L1-DECR1- CDH1-EGFR-SKP2-SOD1-IRAK1-FOXO1 gene signature in the decline of concurrent liver and brain health. Dysregulated levels of these genes are linked to molecular processes like cellular senescence, hypoxia, glutathione synthesis, amino acid modification, increased nitrogen content, synthesis of BCAAs, cholesterol biosynthesis, steroid hormone signalling and VEGF pathway.CONCLUSION: We strongly advocate that prolonged consumption of junk food is a major culprit in brain related disorders like Alzheimer's disease and propose that receptors for brain diseases lie outside the brain and aiming them for drug discovery and design may be beneficial in future clinical studies. This study also discusses the connection between NAFLD (non-alcoholic fatty liver disease) and sAD (sporadic Alzheimer's disease) owing to liver-brain axis.
Myelofibrosis (MF) has heterogeneous clinical manifestations, with some patients exhibiting a myelodepletive phenotype characterized by cytopenias and an absent or low JAK2V617F allele burden. Ruxolitinib may be less effective in these patients. We assessed the efficacy of pacritinib, a JAK2/IRAK1 inhibitor, in MF patients with low JAK2V617F allele burden. In this post hoc analysis of the PERSIST-1 and -2 trials, patients with MF randomized to pacritinib or best available therapy (BAT) were stratified by JAK2V617F allele burden quartile for spleen response of ≥35% and improvement in total symptom score of ≥50%. Five hundred thirty-six patients were included. Patients with lower JAK2V617F allele burden had smaller baseline spleens and lower hemoglobin and platelet counts as compared with higher allele burden patients. Among pacritinib-treated patients, spleen responses were observed across all JAK2V617F allele burden quartiles and in JAK2V617F- disease. No spleen responses were observed among BAT-treated patients with allele burden ≤50% or JAK2V617F- disease. The intention-to-treat response rate was significantly higher on the pacritinib arm for JAK2V617F- disease (23.0% vs 0%; P = .033), and for the lowest allele burden quartiles (0%-25%: 20.9% vs 0%, P < .001; 25%-50%: 15.4% vs 0%, P = .020). There were significantly more symptom responders with pacritinib vs BAT in the 0% to 25% and 25% to 50% cohorts. Pacritinib treatment led to superior spleen and symptom burden reduction compared with BAT in patients with absent or low JAK2V617F allele burden, suggesting that pacritinib may be uniquely suited for patients with myelodepletive MF.
Objective: To investigate the effect of miR-146a on the sensitivity of breast cancer cells to paclitaxel (PTX). Materials and Methods: The mRNA expressions of miR-146a in normal breast cancer cells, MCF-7, and PTX-resistant breast cancer cells, MCF-7/PTX, were detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). MTS was used to analyze the cytotoxicity treated with different concentrations of PTX. Overexpressed and silenced cell lines of miR-146a and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) were constructed, respectively. Cells were treated with PTX and observed the changes of cell morphology. Proliferation was detected by clone formation assay. Invasion and migration were measured by transwell. RT-PCR was applied to detect the expression of IRAK1 gene. Dual luciferase report was performed to validate the target relationship between miR-146a and IRAK1. Salvage experiments were used to further verify the relationship between miR-146a and IRAK1. Results: PTX reduces the viability of MCF-7 and MCF-7/PTX cells in a dose-dependent manner. The IC50 of PTX in MCF-7 cells was significantly lower compared with MCF-7/PTX cells (p < 0.05). Compared with MCF-7/PTX cells, the expression of miR-146a gene in MCF-7 cells was significantly increased, while the expression of IRAK1 gene was significantly reduced (p < 0.05). Cell proliferation, invasion, and migration were decreased after miR-146a overexpression or IRAK1 silencing. Whereas, miR-146a silencing and IRAK1 overexpression can increase cell proliferation, invasion, and migration ability. Salvage experiments further verify that IRAK1 can weaken the role of miR-146a. Conclusion: miR-146a can enhance the sensitivity of breast cancer cells to PTX; the mechanism may be related to the downregulation of IRAK1.
Author information:(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou 350000, China.
The purpose of this study was to explore the investigative mechanism of salidroside (SAL) on LPS-induced acute lung injury (ALI)/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The exosomes from RLE-6TN are extracted and identified by transmission electron microscopy, particle size analysis and protein marker detection, and co-cultured with NR8383 cells. The ALI/ARDS model of SD rats was established by LPS (10 mg/kg) intratracheal instillation. Following a four-hour intratracheal instillation of LPS, 50 μl of RLE-6TN exosomes were injected through the tail vein. After that, SAL and miR-146a antagomir were injected into the tail vein for 72 h, respectively. As the changes of HE stain, body weight and ALI score are observed. The expression of miR-146a, TLR4, NF-kB, IRAK1, TRAF6 and their related proteins were detected by RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8 and IL-1 β inflammatory factors were detected by ELISA. The expression of miR-146a, NF-kB, IRAK, TRAF6 and related inflammatory factors in LPS-induced NR8383 was significantly higher than that in the control group, while SAL has greatly reduced the expression of TLR4 mediated NF-kB inflammatory pathway and related inflammatory factors. SAL can significantly improve the LPS-induced lung morphological abnormalities, slowed down the rate of weight loss in rats, and reducing the ALI score. The expression trend of NF-kB, IRAK, TRAF6 and related inflammatory factors in rats' lung tissues was consistent with that in NR8383 cells. SAL has a protective effect on ALI/ARDS caused by sepsis, which is likely to be developed to a potential treatment for the disease. To sum up, this study provides a new theoretical basis for the treatment of ALI/ARDS with SAL.
Managing body condition in dairy cows during the close-up period could alter the availability of nutrients to the fetus during the final growth stages in utero. We investigated how maternal body condition score (BCS) in late pregnancy affected calf whole-blood mRNA abundance and IL-1β concentrations after ex vivo lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge. Thirty-eight multiparous Holstein cows and their calves from a larger cohort were retrospectively grouped by prepartal BCS as normal BCS (≤3.25; n = 22; NormBCS) and high BCS (≥3.75; n = 16; HighBCS). Calf blood samples collected at birth (before receiving colostrum, d 0) and at ages 21 and 42 d (at weaning) were used for ex vivo whole-blood challenge with 3 µg/mL of LPS before mRNA isolation. Target genes evaluated by real-time quantitative PCR were associated with immune response, antioxidant function, and 1-carbon metabolism. Plasma IL-1β concentrations were also measured. Responses in plasma IL-1β and mRNA abundance were compared between LPS-challenged and nonchallenged samples. Statistical analyses were performed at all time points using a MIXED model in SAS 9.4. Neither birth body weight (NormBCS = 43.8 ± 1.01 kg; HighBCS = 43.9 ± 1.2 kg) nor colostrum IgG concentration (NormBCS = 70 ± 5.4 mg/mL; HighBCS = 62 ± 6.5 mg/mL) differed between groups. At birth, whole blood from calves born to HighBCS cows had greater mRNA abundance of IL1B, NFKB1, and GSR and lower GPX1 and CBS abundance after LPS challenge. The longitudinal analysis of d 0, 21, and 42 data revealed a BCS × age effect for SOD2 and NOS2 due to lower mRNA abundance at 42 d in the HighBCS calves. Regardless of maternal BCS, mRNA abundance decreased over time for genes encoding cytokines (IL1B, IL6, IL10, TNF), cytokine receptors (IRAK1, CXCR1), toll-like receptor pathway (TLR4, NFKB1), adhesion and migration (CADM1, ICAM1, ITGAM), and antimicrobial function (MPO). Concentration of IL-1β after LPS challenge was also markedly lower at 21 d regardless of maternal BCS. Overall, results suggested that maternal BCS in late prepartum influences the calf immune system response to an inflammation challenge after birth. Although few genes among those studied were altered due to maternal BCS, the fact that genes related to oxidative stress and 1-carbon metabolism responded to LPS challenge in HighBCS calves underscores the potential role of methyl donors (e.g., methionine, choline, and folic acid) in the early-life innate immune response.
The production of tambaqui Colossoma macropomum has recently reached a milestone, being considered the main native species produced in South American continental waters. Despite the importance of this fish, its immunity is not well understood. In this study we established some patterns of innate immunity for the species via two experiments. Both studies evaluated the fish in the absence (intraperitoneal saline) or presence (intraperitoneal, 3 x 107 CFU/mL of Aeromonas hydrophila at 0.1 mL/10 g of living weight) of infection at 5 points over time-course of 14 days (0 h, 6 h, 24 h, 7 d, 14 d). In the first experiment, the partial gene sequences and gene expression of IL-1β, IRAK-1, C3, C4, lysozyme, IL-10, HSP70 and β-actin were determined in the main secondary lymphoid organs of fish: the spleen and head kidney. The second study was performed to analyse the alternative complement pathway ACH50 in serum to support the elucidation of C3 gene expression. Results of the gene expression assays showed a tendency towards up-regulation of immune genes in infected fish in early phases of infection (mostly around 6 h and 24 h) and in the chronic phase (7 d and 14 d), with the exception of HSP70 which showed a down-regulation in infected fish. Our results also suggested that lysozyme was evolved in both pro- and anti-inflammatory activities. For genes of the complement system, it was demonstrated that C4 regulation followed the tendency of pro-inflammatory genes. However, the C3 gene was, surprisingly, not expressed in most fish and this corroborated with the results of the complement system activity in serum that also did not show activity in most fish. The possible reasons for the regulation of gene expression and association with fish disease are addressed in this paper.
Comment in    Structure. 2021 Mar 4;29(3):197-199.
PAC203 is a randomized dose-finding study of pacritinib, an oral JAK2/IRAK1 inhibitor, in patients with advanced myelofibrosis who are intolerant of or resistant to ruxolitinib. Patients were randomized 1:1:1 to pacritinib 100 mg once per day, 100 mg twice per day, or 200 mg twice per day. Enhanced eligibility criteria, monitoring, and dose modifications were implemented to mitigate risk of cardiac and hemorrhagic events. Efficacy was based on ≥35% spleen volume response (SVR) and ≥50% reduction in the 7-component total symptom score (TSS) through week 24. Of 161 patients, 73% were intolerant of and 76% had become resistant to ruxolitinib; 50% met criteria for both. Severe thrombocytopenia (platelet count <50 × 103/μL) was present in 44%. SVR rates were highest with 200 mg twice per day (100 mg once per day, 0%; 100 mg twice per day, 1.8%; 200 mg twice per day, 9.3%), particularly among patients with baseline platelet counts <50 × 103/μL (17%; 4 of 24). Although TSS response rate was similar across doses (100 mg once per day, 7.7%; 100 mg twice per day, 7.3%; 200 mg twice per day, 7.4%), median percent reduction in TSS suggested a dose-response relationship (-3%, -16%, and -27%, respectively). Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling based on all available data showed greatest SVR and TSS reduction at 200 mg twice per day compared with lower doses. Common adverse events were gastrointestinal events, thrombocytopenia, and anemia. There was no excess of grade ≥3 hemorrhagic or cardiac events at 200 mg twice per day. Pacritinib 200 mg twice per day demonstrated clinical activity and an acceptable safety profile and was selected as the recommended dose for a pivotal phase 3 study in patients with myelofibrosis and severe thrombocytopenia. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT03165734.
Although patients with non-small cell lung cancer harboring activating mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) show good clinical response to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), patients eventually develop acquired resistance. Previous studies have shown that several microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in EGFR TKI resistance. Here, we aimed to investigate whether miR-146b-5p sensitizes the EGFR TKI-resistant lung cancer cells. Clinical analysis showed that miR-146b-5p expression in lung cancer cells isolated from pleural effusions of treatment-naive patients was significantly higher than that after acquiring resistance to EGFR TKI treatment. Ectopic expression of miR-146b-5p in EGFR TKI-resistant cells enhanced EGFR TKI-induced apoptosis. The same results were observed in EGFR-dependent and -independent osimertinib-resistant primary cancer cells (PE3479 and PE2988). Mechanically, miR-146b-5p suppressed nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) activity and NF-κB-related IL-6 and IL-8 production by targeting IRAK1. A negative correlation was observed between miR-146b-5p and IRAK1 in clinical specimens. In rescue experiments, restoration of IRAK1 expression reversed the effects of miR-146b-5p on EGFR TKI sensitivity and recovered NF-κB-regulated IL-6 and IL-8 production. In conclusion, miR-146b-5p/IRAK1/NF-κB signaling is important in promoting EGFR TKI resistance, and miR-146b-5p may be a useful tool for overcoming EGFR TKI resistance.
BACKGROUND: Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a common cause of mortality. Cardiac miR-146a is emerging as a potent regulator of myocardial function. Dexmedetomidine preconditioning provides cardioprotective effects, of which mechanisms related to miR-146a-3p are unclear.METHODS: A myocardial I/R model in rats and a cellular anoxia/reoxygenation (A/R) model in H9C2 cells were established and preconditioned with dexmedetomidine or not. H9C2 cells were transfected with mimics, inhibitor, or negative controls of miR-146a-3p, and siRNAs of IRAK1 or TRAF6. Relative expressions of miR-146a-3p were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The apoptosis rates and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in H9C2 cells were examined by flow cytometry. Protein expressions of IRAK1, TRAF6, cleaved Caspase-3, BAX, BCL-2, NF-κB p65, phosphorylated NF-κB p65 (p-NF-κB p65), IκBα, and phosphorylated IκBα (p-IκBα) in H9C2 cells were detected by Western blot.RESULTS: Dexmedetomidine decreased myocardial infarction size and apoptosis rates of H9C2 cells. Dexmedetomidine upregulated expression of miR-146a-3p. Dexmedetomidine significantly decreased protein expressions of IRAK1, TRAF6, cleaved Caspase-3, BAX, and NF-κB p65, but increased expressions of BCL-2 in H9C2 cells. miR-146a-3p overexpression strengthened the anti-apoptotic effect induced by dexmedetomidine in H9C2 cells via decreasing protein levels of IRAK1, TRAF6, cleaved Caspase-3, BAX, NF-κB p65, p-NF-κB p65, and p-IκBα and increasing protein level of BCL-2. Downregulation of miR-146a-3p reversed the changes in these proteins in H9C2 cells. Expressions of NF-κB p65 and p-NF-κB p65 were further decreased following knockdown of IRAK1 or TRAF6. ROS emission was significantly increased after A/R, while significantly decreased following dexmedetomidine preconditioning in H9C2 cells transfected with siIRAK1 or siTRAF6.CONCLUSION: miR-146a-3p targeting IRAK1 and TRAF6 through inhibition of NF-κB signaling pathway and ROS emission is involved in cardioprotection induced by dexmedetomidine pretreatment.
Interleukin 1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) are serine/threonine kinases that play critical roles in initiating the innate immune response against foreign pathogens. Additionally, dysregulation of IRAK1 signaling plays a role in neoplastic disorders. For example, IRAK1 was shown to be important for survival and proliferation in many B-cell lymphomas, including Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM) and ABC subtype Diffused Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) cells. Here, we report the discovery of a highly potent and selective covalent inhibitor of IRAK1, JH-X-119-01. Intact protein MS labeling studies confirmed that JH-X-119-01 irreversibly labels IRAK1 at C302. This compound exhibited cytotoxic activity at single digit micromolar concentrations in a panel of WM, DLBCL, and lymphoma cell lines expressing MYD88. Cotreatment of JH-X-119-01 with the BTK inhibitor ibrutinib resulted in synergistic killing effects in these systems. Taken together, JH-X-119-01 represents a highly selective probe of IRAK1 for further development.
BACKGROUND Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) are crucial mediators in the signaling pathways of Toll-like receptors (TLRs)/IL1Rs. Targeting the IRAK4/IRAK1/TRAF6 axis and its associated pathway has therapeutic benefits in liver fibrosis. However, the function of IRAK1 itself in the development of liver fibrosis remains unknown. MATERIAL AND METHODS Irak1 global knockout (KO) mice were generated to study the functional role of Irak1 in liver fibrosis. Male Irak1 knockout and control mice were challenged with chronic carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) or fed a methionine- and choline-deficient diet (MCDD) to generate models of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Liver inflammation and collagen deposition were assessed by histological examination, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), and western blotting of hepatic tissues. RESULTS The mRNA expression of the downstream inflammatory gene Il1b was significantly lower in Irak1-KO than in control mice. Irak1 ablation had little effect on inflammatory cell infiltration into livers of mice with NASH. Collagen deposition and the expression of genes related to fibrogenesis were similar in the livers of Irak1-KO and control mice exposed to CCl4 and MCDD. The loss of Irak1 did not affect lipid or glucose metabolism in these experimental models of steatohepatitis. CONCLUSIONS Irak1 knockout reduced the expression of inflammatory genes but had no effect on hepatic fibrogenesis. The Irak1-related pathway may regulate liver fibrosis via other pathways or be compensated for by other factors.
Anaplasma phagocytophilum subverts neutrophil function permitting intracellular survival, propagation and transmission. Sustained pro-inflammatory response, recruitment of new host cells for population expansion, and delayed apoptosis are associated with prolonged nuclear presence of NF-κB. We investigated NF-κB signaling and transcriptional activity with A. phagocytophilum infection using inhibitors of NF-κB signaling pathways, and through silencing of signaling pathway genes. How inhibitors or silencing affected A. phagocytophilum growth, inflammatory response (transcription of the κB-enhanced genes CXCL8 and MMP9), and NF-κB signaling pathway gene expression were tested. Among A. phagocytophilum-infected HL-60 cells, nuclear NF-κB p50, p65, and p52 were detected by immunoblots or iTRAQ proteomics. A. phagocytophilum growth was affected most by the IKKαβ inhibitor wedelolactone (reductions of 96 to 99%) as compared with SC-514 that selectively inhibits IKKβ, illustrating a role for the non-canonical pathway. Wedelolactone inhibited transcription of both CXCL8 (p = 0.001) and MMP9 (p = 0.002) in infected cells. Compared to uninfected THP-1 cells, A. phagocytophilum infection led to >2-fold down regulation of 64 of 92 NF-κB signaling pathway genes, and >2-fold increased expression in only 4. Wedelolactone and SC-514 reversed downregulation in all 64 and 45, respectively, of the genes down-regulated by infection, but decreased expression in 1 gene with SC-514 only. Silencing of 20 NF-κB signal pathway genes increased bacterial growth in 12 (IRAK1, MAP3K1, NFKB1B, MAP3K7, TICAM2, TLR3, TRADD, TRAF3, CHUK, IRAK2, LTBR, and MALT1). Most findings support canonical pathway activation; however, the presence of NFKB2 in infected cell nuclei, selective non-canonical pathway inhibitors that dampen CXCL8 and MMP9 transcription with infection, upregulation of non-canonical pathway target genes CCL13 and CCL19, enhanced bacterial growth with TRAF3 and LTBR silencing provide evidence for non-canonical pathway signaling. Whether this impacts distinct inflammatory processes that underlie disease, and whether and how A. phagocytophilum subverts NF-κB signaling via these pathways, need to be investigated.
Ambient fine particulate matter (PM2.5) can change the expression profile of microRNAs (miRs), which may play important roles in mediating inflammatory responses. The present study attempts to investigate the roles of miR-146a-5p in regulating cytokine expression in a human monocytic leukemia cell line (THP-1). Four types of PM2.5 extracts obtained from Beijing, China, were subjected to cytotoxic tests in THP-1 cells. These four PM2.5 extracts included two water extracts collected from non-heating and heating season (WN and WH), and two organic extracts from non-heating and heating season (DN and DH). Firstly, the four PM2.5 extracts caused cytotoxicity, oxidative stress responses, cytokine gene expressions and interleukin 8 (IL-8) release in THP-1 cells, with WH showing the highest cytotoxicity, WN showing the highest oxidative stress and inflammatory responses. Additionally, we observed expression of miR-146a-5p was significantly increased, with the maximal response of six folds in WN group. Cellular autophagy was initiated by PM2.5 indicated by related protein and gene expressions. Both RNA interference and autophagy inhibitor were applied to interrupt autophagy process in THP-1 cells. Autophagy dysfunction could alleviate IL-8 expression, suggesting autophagy process regulated cytokine expression and inflammatory response caused by PM2.5. A chemical inhibitor was applied to inhibit the function of miR-146a-5p, and then the expressions of IL-8 and autophagic genes were significantly aggravated. Meanwhile, two target genes of miR-146a-5p, interleukin-1 associated-kinase-1 (IRAK1) and tumor-necrosis factor receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF6) were increased dramatically, which also played important roles in regulation of autophagy. These data suggested miR-146a-5p negatively modulated cytokine expression caused by PM2.5 via autophagy process through the target genes of IRAK1 and TRAF6. Our findings raised the concerns of the changes of miR expression profile and following responses caused by PM2.5.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) participates in regulation of the maternal immune tolerance during pregnancy, and the thymus is critical for the adaptive immune system. This study hypothesized whether early pregnancy affected the expression of toll-like receptor pathway in the thymus of ewes. In this study, expression of TLRs, tumor necrosis factor receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6), interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88) was detected in maternal thymus during early pregnancy in sheep. Ovine thymuses were collected on day 16 of the estrous cycle, and days 13, 16 and 25 of pregnancy, and expression of TLR members was analyzed by real-time quantitative PCR, western blot and immunohistochemistry analysis. The results revealed that there were decreases in the expression of the mRNA and proteins of TLR2, IRAK1, TRAF6 and MyD88, but increase in TLR5 mRNA and protein. Furthermore, expression of TLR3 and TLR4 proteins peaked at days 13 and 16 of gestation, and MyD88 protein was located in the epithelial reticular cells and thymic corpuscles. In summary, TLR signaling is implicated in regulation of maternal thymic immune, which may be via downregulation of TLR2, IRAK1, TRAF6 and MyD88 during early pregnancy in sheep.
Glyoxalase-1 (GLO-1) is the key enzyme in aldehyde defence in cancer cells. We here evaluated the prognostic impact and association with clinico-pathological parameters and relapse-free as well as overall survival in tumor samples from 187 breast cancer patients. The determined GLO1-immunoreactive score (GLO1-IRS) did not correlate with parameters such as grading, size, hormone receptors or ki67. However, an association of GLO1-IRS with the advanced glycation end product Nε-(carboxymethyl)lysine (p = 0.07) and HER2 (p = 0.06), and a strong correlation with VEGF (p = 0.008) was found. In survival analysis, no significant impact of GLO-1 IRS could be deduced for all patients. However, GLO1-IRS correlated with treatment by radiotherapy (p = 0.008) and high GLO1-IRS predicted a shorter relapse free survival after radiotherapy (log-rank p = 0.067). METABRIC- and TCGA expression-data were analyzed for correlation of regulatory genes of the NF-κB-pathway (RELA, RELB, IRAK1), the oxidative-stress associated transcription factor nrf2 (NFE2L2), the receptor for AGEs (AGER, RAGE) as well as enzymes associated with aldehyde defense. Here, RELA, RELB and NFE2L2 correlated significantly with GLO1 expression, but there were conflicting results between the two data sources. In conclusion, GLO1 was highly expressed in cancer cells, correlated surprisingly weak with survival, but we could show a positive association with the AGE CML as well as VEGF. Gene expression data suggest a regulation of GLO-1 mRNA via both, inflammation (NF-kB) and oxidative stress (NFE2L2) in tumors.
BACKGROUND: Dysregulation of the cell cycle is one of the main causes of melanomagenesis. Genomewide studies showed that the expression of Aurora -A and -B significantly has been upregulated in melanoma. However, there is no FDA approved drug targeting aurora kinases in the treatment of melanoma. In addition, the development of resistance to chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of melanoma and, as a result, the relapse due to heterogeneous cell groups in patients is a second phenomenon that causes treatment failure. Therefore, there is an urgent need for therapeutic alternatives targeting both melanoma and Melanoma Cancer Stem Cells (MCSCs) in treatments. At this stage, cell cycle regulators become promising targets.OBJECTIVE: In this study, we aimed to identify the effects of Aurora kinase inhibitor CCT137690 on the cytotoxicity, apoptosis, cell cycle, migration, and colony formation and expression changes of genes related to proliferation, cell death and cell cycle in melanoma and melanoma cancer stem cell. In addition, we investigated the apoptotic and cytostatic effects of CCT137690 in normal fibroblast cells.METHODS: We evaluated the cytotoxic effect of CCT137690 in MCSCs, NM2C5 referring as melanoma model cells and WI-38 cells by using the WST-1 test. The effect of CCT137690 on apoptosis was detected via Annexin V and JC-1 method; on cell cycle progression by cell cycle test; on gene expression by using RT-PCR, on migration activity by wound healing assay and clonal growth by clonogenic assay in NM2C5 cells and MCSCs. The effects of CCT137690 in WI-38, referring as healthy fibroblast cell, were assessed through Annexin V and cell cycle method.RESULTS: CCT137690 was determined to have a cytotoxic and apoptotic effect in MCSCs and melanoma. It caused polyploidy and cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase in MCSCs and melanoma cells. The significant decrease in the expression of MMP2, MMP7, MMP10, CCNB1, IRAK1, PLK2 genes, and the increase in the expression of PTEN, CASP7, p53 genes were detected.CONCLUSION: Aurora kinases inhibitor CCT137690 displays promising anticancer activity in melanoma and especially melanoma cancer stem cells. The effect of CCT137690 on melanoma and MCSC may provide a new approach to treatment protocols.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) remains a great threat to global health, killing more people than any other single infectious agent and causing uncontrollable inflammation in the host. Poorly controlled inflammatory processes can be deleterious and result in immune exhaustion. The current tuberculosis (TB) control is facing the challenge of drugs deficiency, especially in the context of increasingly multidrug resistant (MDR) TB. Under this circumstance, alternative host-directed therapy (HDT) emerges timely which can be exploited to improve the efficacy of TB treatment and disease prognosis by targeting the host. Here, we established the in vitro infection model of Mtb macrophages with H37Ra strain to seek effective anti-TB active agent. The present study showed that Guttiferone K, isolated from Garcinia yunnanensis, could significantly inhibit Mtb-induced inflammation in RAW264.7 and primary peritoneal macrophages. It was evidenced by the decreased production of inflammatory mediators, including interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Further studies with immunoblotting and immunofluorescence revealed that Guttiferone K obviously inhibits the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) both in RAW264.7 and primary peritoneal macrophages relying on the TLR/IRAK-1 pathway. Guttiferone K could also suppress the NLRP3 inflammasome activity and induce autophagy by inhibiting the protein kinase B (p-Akt) and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) phosphorylation at Ser473 and Ser2448 in both cell lines. Thus, Guttiferone K possesses significant anti-inflammatory effect, alleviating Mtb-induced inflammation with an underlying mechanism that targeting on the TLR/IRAK-1 pathway and inhibiting the downstream NF-κB and Akt/mTOR signaling pathways. Together, Guttiferone K can be an anti-inflammatory agent candidate for the design of new adjunct HDT drugs fighting against tuberculosis.
Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3)-mediated apoptotic changes in cancer cells are well-documented, and hence, several synthetic ligands of TLR3 are being used for adjuvant therapy, but there are reports showing a contradictory effect of TLR3 signaling, which include our previous report that had shown cell proliferation following surface localization of TLR 3. However, the underlying mechanism of cell surface localization of TLR3 and subsequent cell proliferation lacks clarity. This study addresses the TLR3 ligand-mediated signaling cascade that regulates a proliferative effect in breast cancer cells (MDA-MB-231 and T47D) challenged with TLR3 ligand in the presence of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88) inhibitor. Evidences were obtained using immunoblotting, coimmunoprecipitation, confocal microscopy, immunocytochemistry, ELISA, and flow cytometry. Results had revealed that TLR3 ligand treatment significantly enhanced breast cancer cell proliferation marked by an upregulated expression of cyclinD1, but the same was suppressed by the addition of MyD88 inhibitor. Also, expression of interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1)-TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6)-transforming growth factor beta-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) was altered in the given TLR3-signaling pathway. Inhibition of MyD88 disrupted the downstream adaptor complex and mediated signaling through the TLR3-MyD88-NF-κB (p65)-IL-6-cyclin D1 pathway. TLR3-mediated alternative signaling of the TLR3-MyD88-IRAK1-TRAF6-TAK1-TAB1-NF-κB axis leads to upregulation of IL6 and cyclin D1. This response is hypothesized to be via the MyD88 gateway that culminates in the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Overall, this study provides first comprehensive evidence on the involvement of canonical signaling of TLR3 using MyD88-cyclin D1-mediated breast cancer cell proliferation. The findings elucidated herein will provide valuable insights into understanding the TLR3-mediated adjuvant therapy in cancer.
Interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase-1 (IRAK1) exhibits important roles in inflammation, infection, and autoimmune diseases; however, only a few inhibitors have been discovered. In this study, at first, a discriminatory structure-based virtual screening (SBVS) was employed, but only one active compound (compound 1, IC50 = 2.25 μM) was identified. The low hit rate (2.63%) which derives from the weak discriminatory power of docking among high-scored molecules was observed in our virtual screening (VS) process for IRAK1 inhibitor. Furthermore, an artificial intelligence (AI) method, which employed a support vector machine (SVM) model, integrated information of molecular docking, pharmacophore scoring and molecular descriptors was constructed to enhance the traditional IRAK1-VS protocol. Using AI, it was found that VS of IRAK1 inhibitors excluded by over 50% of the inactive compounds, which could significantly improve the prediction accuracy of the SBVS model. Moreover, four active molecules (two of which exhibited comparative IC50 with compound 1) were accurately identified from a set of highly similar candidates. Amongst, compounds with better activity exhibited good selectivity against IRAK4. The AI assisted workflow could serve as an effective tool for enhancement of SBVS.
Esophageal cancer is one of the least studied aggressive tumors, with the squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) being the most frequent histological type around the world. Growing evidence has shown that the abnormal expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) is closely related to the pathogenesis of cancers. MiR-146a is a crucial regulator of inflammatory cascades. There is currently no data available regarding the possible role of miR-146a in PBMCs of ESCC patients. We evaluated the expression of miR-146a, as well as its target genes (IRAK1 and TRAF6) and its associated immune effectors (NF-κB1, IL1B, and IL6) in PBMCs of 40 ESCC patients and 50 control subjects. The geometric mean expression of five transcripts was used for normalizing expressions. The PBMC level of miR-146a, as measured by RT-qPCR, was upregulated, whereas levels of its target genes, IRAK1 and TRAF6, were downregulated in ESCC patients. NF-κB1 and IL6 was downregulated in PBMCs of ESCC patients. There was no difference in terms of the IL1B level between patients and the control group. Logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis suggested that a model with PBMC levels of either NF-κB1+ IL6 or NF-κB1+ miR-146a as predictors may discriminate ESCC patients from subjects of the control group. Our findings, in the context of the current literature, may suggest a possible downregulatory mechanism of immune responses in PBMCs of ESCC patients.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA molecules that regulate post-transcriptional gene expression and contribute to all aspects of cellular function. We previously reported that the activities of several mitochondria-enriched miRNAs regulating inflammation (i.e., miR-142-3p, miR-142-5p, and miR-146a) are altered in the hippocampus at 3-12 hours following a severe traumatic brain injury. In the present study, we investigated the temporal expression profile of these inflammatory miRNAs in mitochondria and cytosol fractions at more chronic post-injury times following severe controlled cortical impact injury in rats. In addition, several inflammatory genes were analyzed in the cytosol fractions. The analysis showed that while elevated levels were observed in cytoplasm, the mitochondria-enriched miRNAs, miR-142-3p and miR-142-5p continued to be significantly reduced in mitochondria from injured hippocampi for at least 3 days and returned to near normal levels at 7 days post-injury. Although not statistically significant, miR-146a also remained at reduced levels for up to 3 days following controlled cortical impact injury, and recovered by 7 days. In contrast, miRNAs that are not enriched in mitochondria, including miR-124a, miR-150, miR-19b, miR-155, and miR-223 were either increased or demonstrated no change in their levels in mitochondrial fractions for 7 days. The one exception was that miR-223 levels were reduced in mitochondria at 1 day following injury. No major alterations were observed in sham operated animals. This temporal pattern was unique to mitochondria-enriched miRNAs and correlated with injury-induced changes in mitochondrial bioenergetics as well as expression levels of several inflammatory markers. These observations suggested a potential compartmental re-distribution of the mitochondria-enriched inflammatory miRNAs and may reflect an intracellular mechanism by which specific miRNAs regulate injury-induced inflammatory signaling. To test this, we utilized a novel peptide-based nanoparticle strategy for in vitro and in vivo delivery of a miR-146a mimic as a potential therapeutic strategy for targeting nuclear factor-kappaB inflammatory modulators in the injured brain. Nanoparticle delivery of miR-146a to BV-2 or SH-SY5Y cells significantly reduced expression of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), two important modulators of the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) pro-inflammatory pathway. Moreover, injections of miR-146a containing nanoparticles into the brain immediately following controlled cortical impact injury significantly reduced hippocampal TNF receptor-associated factor 6 and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 levels. Taken together, our studies demonstrate the subcellular alteration of inflammatory miRNAs after traumatic brain injury and establish proof of principle that nanoparticle delivery of miR-146a has therapeutic potential for modulating pro-inflammatory effectors in the injured brain. All of the studies performed were approved by the University of Kentucky Institutional Animal Care and Usage Committee (IACUC protocol # 2014-1300) on August 17, 2017.
Mechanisms controlling immune function of dairy cows are dysregulated during heat stress (HS). Methyl donor supply-methionine (Met) and choline (Chol)-positively modulates innate immune function, particularly antioxidant systems of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN). The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of Met and Chol supply in vitro on mRNA abundance of genes related to 1-carbon metabolism, inflammation, and immune function in short-term cultures of PMN isolated from mid-lactating Holstein cows in response to heat challenge. Blood PMN were isolated from 5 Holstein cows (153 ± 5 d postpartum, 34.63 ± 2.73 kg/d of milk production; mean ± SD). The PMN were incubated for 2 h at thermal-neutral (37°C; TN) or heat stress (42°C; HS) temperatures with 3 levels of Chol (0, 400, or 800 μg/mL) or 3 ratios of Lys:Met (Met; 3.6:1, 2.9:1, or 2.4:1). Supernatant concentrations of IL-1β, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α were measured via bovine-specific ELISA. Fold-changes in mRNA abundance were calculated separately for Chol and Met treatments to obtain the fold-change response at 42°C (HS) relative to 37°C (TN). Data were subjected to ANOVA using PROC MIXED in SAS (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC). Orthogonal contrasts were used to determine the linear or quadratic effect of Met and Chol for mRNA fold-change and supernatant cytokine concentrations. Compared with PMN receiving 0 μg of Chol/mL, heat-stressed PMN supplemented with Chol at 400 or 800 μg/mL had greater fold-change in abundance of CBS, CSAD, GSS, GSR, and GPX1. Among genes associated with inflammation and immune function, fold-change in abundance of TLR2, TLR4, IRAK1, IL1B, and IL10 increased with 400 and 800 μg of Chol/mL compared with PMN receiving 0 μg of Chol/mL. Fold-change in abundance of SAHH decreased linearly at increasing levels of Met supply. A linear effect was detected for MPO, NFKB1, and SOD1 due to greater fold-change in abundance when Met was increased to reach Lys:Met ratios of 2.9:1 and 2.4:1. Although increasing Chol supply upregulated BAX, BCL2, and HSP70, increased Met supply only upregulated BAX. Under HS conditions, enhancing PMN supply of Chol to 400 μg/mL effectively increased fold-change in abundance of genes involved in antioxidant production (conferring cellular processes protection from free radicals and reactive oxygen species), inflammatory signaling, and innate immunity. Although similar outcomes were obtained with Met supply at Lys:Met ratios of 2.9:1 and 2.4:1, the response was less pronounced. Both Chol and Met supply enhanced the cytoprotective characteristics of PMN through upregulation of heat shock proteins. Overall, the modulatory effects detected in the present experiment highlight an opportunity to use Met and particularly Chol supplementation during thermal stress.
Exosomes, or small extracellular vesicles (sEVs), serve as intercellular messengers with key roles in normal and pathological processes. Our previous work had demonstrated that Dsg2 expression in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) cells enhanced both sEV secretion and loading of pro-mitogenic cargo. In this study, using wild-type Dsg2 and a mutant form that is unable to be palmitoylated (Dsg2cacs), we investigated the mechanism by which Dsg2 modulates SCC tumour development and progression through sEVs. We demonstrate that palmitoylation was required for Dsg2 to regulate sub-cellular localisation of lipid raft and endosomal proteins necessary for sEV biogenesis. Pharmacological inhibition of the endosomal pathway abrogated Dsg2-mediated sEV release. In murine xenograft models, Dsg2-expressing cells generated larger xenograft tumours as compared to cells expressing GFP or Dsg2cacs. Co-treatment with sEVs derived from Dsg2-over-expressing cells increased xenograft size. Cytokine profiling revealed, Dsg2 enhanced both soluble and sEV-associated IL-8 and miRNA profiling revealed, Dsg2 down-regulated both cellular and sEV-loaded miR-146a. miR-146a targets IRAK1, a serine-threonine kinase involved in IL-8 signalling. Treatment with a miR-146a inhibitor up-regulated both IRAK1 and IL-8 expression. RNAseq analysis of HNSCC tumours revealed a correlation between Dsg2 and IL-8. Finally, elevated IL-8 plasma levels were detected in a subset of HNSCC patients who did not respond to immune checkpoint therapy, suggesting that these patients may benefit from prior anti-IL-8 treatment. In summary, these results suggest that intercellular communication through cell-cell adhesion, cytokine release and secretion of EVs are coordinated, and critical for tumour growth and development, and may serve as potential prognostic markers to inform treatment options.ABBREVIATIONS: Basal cell carcinomas, BCC; Betacellulin, BTC; 2-bromopalmitate, 2-Bromo; Cluster of differentiation, CD; Cytochrome c oxidase IV, COX IV; Desmoglein 2, Dsg2; Early endosome antigen 1, EEA1; Epidermal growth factor receptor substrate 15, EPS15; Extracellular vesicle, EV; Flotillin 1, Flot1; Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, GAPH; Green fluorescent protein, GFP; Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, HNSCC; Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1, IRAK1; Interleukin 8, IL-8; Large EV, lEV; MicroRNA, miR; Palmitoylacyltransferase, PAT; Ras-related protein 7 Rab7; Small EV, sEV; Squamous cell carcinoma, SCC; Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases, TIMP; Tumour microenvironment, TME.
BACKGROUND: Poorly differentiated thyroid cancer (PDTC) is a rare, follicular cell-derived neoplasm with an unfavorable prognosis. The oncocytic variant of PDTC may be associated with even more adverse outcome than classical PDTC cases, but its specific molecular features are largely unknown. Our aim was to explore the immune-related gene expression profile of oncocytic and classical PDTC, in correlation with clinical and pathological characteristics (including programmed death ligand 1 [PD-L1] expression) and outcome, and in comparison with a control group of well-differentiated follicular carcinomas (WDFCs), including conventional follicular carcinomas (FTCs) and Hürthle cell carcinomas (HCCs).METHODS: A retrospective series of 48 PDTCs and 24 WDFCs was analyzed by means of NanoString technology employing the nCounter PanCancer Immune Profiling panel. Gene expression data were validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS: Oncocytic PDTCs showed a specific immune-related gene expression profile, with higher expression of LAIR2, CD274, DEFB1, IRAK1, CAMP, LCN2, LY96, and APOE, and lower expression of NOD1, as compared to conventional PDTCs. This molecular signature was associated with increased intratumoral lymphocytic infiltration, PD-L1 expression, and adverse outcome. Three of these genes, CD274, DEFB1, and IRAK1, as well as PD-L1 expression, were also the hallmarks of HCCs as compared to FTCs. By contrast, the panel of genes differentially regulated in PDTCs as compared to WDFCs was unrelated to the oncocytic phenotype.CONCLUSIONS: Our results revealed a distinctive immune-related gene expression profile of oncocytic PDTC and confirmed a more aggressive outcome in this cancer subtype. These findings may provide guidance when exploring novel immunotherapeutic options for oncocytic PDTC patients.
OBJECTIVE: Dry eye syndrome in which tear fluid quality or abnormality, or kinetic abnormality is caused by various reasons, resulting in decreased tear film stability. In recent years, more and more results from the studies indicate that miRNA alterations are involved in dry eye syndrome. And miRNA-146a-5p is a key regulator to regulate the inflammatory response. In this paper, we demonstrated whether miRNA-146a-5p could cure dry eye syndrome by regulating target genes based on network analysis.METHODS: In current study, we collected the blood of patients with dry eye disease served as a model group; the blood of healthy people was served as control group. The expression of miRNA-146a-5p in the patients was detected by RT-PCR, the genes controlled by miRNA-146a-5p were predicted by TargetScan, miRDB, miRWalk, and PicTar databases, and the genes regulated by miRNA-146a-5p which relative with dry eye disease were selected by drawing Venn diagram.RESULTS: The comparison of the general information between patients and healthy people was no significant difference, and it indicated that the two groups were comparable. The results of databases showed that IRAK1 was one of the target genes regulated by miRNA-146a-5p, and it is related to dry eye disease. The expression of miRNA-146a-5p was negatively related to IRAK1 mRNA and protein, while IRAK1 had a positive correlation with IL-6, TNF-α, and CBP proteins.CONCLUSION: These results emphasized that miRNA-146a-5p could inhibit the expression of IRAK1, IL-6, TNF-α, and CBP to help reduce the inflammatory response in dry eye syndrome.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) constitute a group of small non-coding RNAs (~22 nucleotides) and one of their main functions is to regulate the immune responses. Gram-positive bacterium, Streptococcus parauberis is the main causative agent of "Streptococcosis" in wide range of fish species. In this study, we performed high throughput sequencing analysis to identify the miRNA profile against S. parauberis infection in the spleen of zebrafish (Danio rerio). Overall, 349 known and 151 novel miRNAs were discovered. Among them, 12 known miRNAs (dre-miR-34b, dre-miR-135a, dre-miR-200b-5p, dre-miR-146b, dre-miR-31, dre-miR-17a-3p, dre-miR-222a-3p, dre-miR-731, dre-miR-301b-3p and dre-miR-30a-3p) and 9 novel miRNAs were differentially expressed (DE) in the spleen of S. parauberis challenged zebrafish. The identified 12 DE miRNAs were predicted to regulate 721 target genes. We confirmed the miRNA expression results by validating selected known and novel DE miRNAs using qRT-PCR. Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes (KEGG) pathway analysis and miRNA-mRNA interactions implies that specific target genes of DE miRNAs are associated with immune responses. The enriched pathways included Toll-like receptor (TLR), C-type lectin, NOD-like receptor, and RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathways, etc. Especially, dre-miR-200b-5p, dre-miR-146b, dre-miR-731, dre-miR-222a-3p, and dre-miR-34b were able to target potential immune-related genes such as il10, irak1, traf6, hspa8 and ikbke upon S. parauberis challenge. Thus, overall results could lay a foundation to understand the underlying immune regulatory role of miRNAs in response to pathogenic S. parauberis infection in teleosts.
AIM: Previous data from our laboratory have demonstrated that localized aggressive periodontitis (LAP) patients produce elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to TLR4 and TLR2 ligation compared to unrelated and periodontally healthy controls (HC). The aim of the present work is to evaluate the contribution of TLR-related gene expression and miRNA regulation in LAP disease.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from LAP and health control (HC) patients were isolated. Gene and miRNA expression involved in TLR signalling pathway and immunopathology were evaluated in unstimulated PBMCs by real-time PCR (RT-PCR).RESULTS: TICAM-1 (TRIF), FOS, IRAK1, TLR2 and CCL2 genes and the miRNAs miR-9-5p, miR-155-5p and 203a-3p, miR-147a, miR-182-5p and miR-183-5p were significantly up-regulated in LAP compared to HC.CONCLUSIONS: Most of the genes and miRNAs overexpressed here are directly or indirectly related to immune response and inflammation. This profile supports our previous findings that suggests LAP patients have a "hyper-responsive" phenotype upon activation of TLR pathway by periodontal pathogens.
Rationale: Ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major cause of acute kidney injury (AKI) that is associated with high morbidity and mortality, and for which specific treatments are lacking. In this study, we investigated the protective effect of human urine-derived stem cells (USCs) and their exosomes against IRI-induced AKI to explore the potential of these cells as a new therapeutic strategy. Methods: USCs were derived from fresh human urine. Cell surface marker expression was analyzed by flow cytometry to determine the characteristics of the stem cells. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were used to generate a lethal renal IRI model. One dose of USCs (2×106 cells/ml) or exosomes (20 µg/1 ml) in the experimental groups or saline (1 ml) in the control group was administered intravenously immediately after blood reperfusion. Blood was drawn every other day for measurement of serum creatinine (sCr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels. The kidneys were harvested for RNA and protein extraction to examine the levels of apoptosis and tubule injury. In vitro, the hypoxia-reoxygenation (H/R) model in human kidney cortex/proximal tubule cells (HK2) was used to analyze the protective ability of USC-derived exosomes (USC-Exo). Quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), western blotting, superoxide dismutase activity, and malonaldehyde content analyses were used to evaluate oxidative stress in HK2 cells treated with USC-Exo after H/R. Exosomal microRNA sequencing techniques and bioinformatics analysis were used to search for enriched miRNAs in the exosomes and interacting genes. The interaction between miRNAs and the 3' untranslated region of the target gene was detected using a dual luciferase reporting system. The miRNA mimic and inhibitor were used to regulate the miRNA level in HK2 cells. Results: Treatment with USCs led to reductions in the levels of sCr, BUN, and renal tubular cell apoptosis; inhibited the infiltration of inflammatory cells; and protected renal function in the rat IRI model. Additionally, USC-derived exosomes protected against IRI-induced renal damage. miR-146a-5p was the most abundant miRNA in exosomes obtained from the conditioned medium (CM) of USCs. miR-146a-5p targeted and degraded the 3'UTR of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) mRNA, subsequently inhibited the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling, and protected HK2 cells from H/R injury. USC transplantation also upregulated miR-146a-5p expression, downregulated IRAK1 expression and inhibited nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65 in the kidney of the rat IRI model. Conclusions: According to our experimental results, USCs could protect against renal IRI via exosomal miR-146a-5p, which could target the 3'UTR of IRAK1 and subsequently inhibit the activation of NF-κB signaling and infiltration of inflammatory cells to protect renal function. As a novel cell source, USCs represent a promising non-invasive approach for the treatment of IRI.
Fibrotic remodeling is an adverse consequence of immune response-driven phenotypic modulation of cardiac cells following myocardial infarction (MI). MicroRNA-146b (miR-146b) is an active regulator of immunomodulation, but its function in the cardiac inflammatory cascade and its clinical implication in fibrotic remodeling following MI remain largely unknown. Herein, miR-146b-5p was found to be upregulated in the infarcted myocardium of mice and the serum of myocardial ischemia patients. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments demonstrated that miR-146b-5p was a hypoxia-induced regulator that governed the pro-fibrotic phenotype transition of cardiac cells. Overexpression of miR-146b-5p activated fibroblast proliferation, migration, and fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition, impaired endothelial cell function and stress survival, and disturbed macrophage paracrine signaling. Interestingly, the opposite effects were observed when miR-146b-5p expression was inhibited. Luciferase assays and rescue studies demonstrated that the miR-146b-5p target genes mediating the above phenotypic modulations included interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and carcinoembryonic antigen related cell adhesion molecule 1 (CEACAM1). Local delivery of a miR-146b-5p antagomir significantly reduced fibrosis and cell death, and upregulated capillary and reparative macrophages in the infarcted myocardium to restore cardiac remodeling and function in both mouse and porcine MI models. Local inhibition of miR-146b-5p may represent a novel therapeutic approach to treat cardiac fibrotic remodeling and dysfunction following MI.
This study has investigated the effect of a potent bioflavonoid, troxerutin, on diabetes-induced changes in pro-inflammatory mediators and expression of microRNA-146a and nuclear factor-kappa-B (NF-κB) signaling pathway in aortic tissue of type-I diabetic rats. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into four groups (n = 6/each): healthy, healthy-troxerutin, diabetic, and diabetic-troxerutin. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin injection (60 mg/kg; intraperitoneally) and lasted 10 weeks. Troxerutin (150 mg/kg/day) was administered orally for last month of experiment. Inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α, as well as intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM), cyclooxygenase-II (COX-II), and inducible-nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were measured on aortic samples by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Gene expressions for transcription factor NF-κB, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1), TNF receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF-6), and microRNA-146a were determined using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Ten-week diabetes significantly increased mRNA levels of IRAK-1, TRAF-6, NF-κB, and protein levels of cytokines IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, adhesion molecules ICAM-1, VCAM, and iNOS, COX-II, and decreased expression of microRNA-146a as compared with healthy rats (p < 0.05 to p < 0.01). However, one month treatment of diabetic rats with troxerutin restored glucose and insulin levels, significantly decreased expression of inflammatory genes and pro-inflammatory mediators and increased microRNA level in comparison to diabetic group (p < 0.05 to p < 0.01). In healthy rats, troxerutin had significant reducing effect only on NF-κB, TNF-α and COXII levels (p < 0.05). Beside slight improvement of hyperglycemia, troxerutin prevented the activation of NF-κB-dependent inflammatory signaling in the aorta of diabetic rats, and this response may be regulated by microRNA-146a.
INTRODUCTION: Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating type of stroke with high mortality, and the effective therapies for ICH remain to be explored. Exosomes (Exos) have been found to play important roles in cell communication by transferring molecules, including microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs). MiRNAs are critical regulators of genes involved in many various biological processes and have been demonstrated to aggravate or alleviate brain damages induced by ICH. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of Exos derived from miR-146a-5p-enriched bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs-miR-146a-5p-Exos) on experimental ICH.METHODS: ICH was induced in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats by an intrastriatal injection of collagenase type IV. At 24 h after surgery, Exos were administrated. For detecting apoptotic cells, TUNEL staining was performed using an in situ Cell Death Detection Kit. Fluoro-Jade B staining was performed to detect degenerating neurons. Immunofluorescence assay was performed to detect the expression of myeloperoxidase (MPO) and OX-42. The binding of miR-146a-5p and its target genes was confirmed by luciferase reporter assay.RESULTS: At 24 h after surgery, BMSCs-miR-146a-5p-Exos administration significantly improved neurological function, reduced apoptotic and degenerative neurons, and inhibited inflammatory response. Furthermore, miR-146a-5p-enriched Exos obviously inhibited the M1 polarization of microglia after ICH in rats, accompanied by the reduced expression of pro-inflammatory mediators releasing by M1 microglia including inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1). Finally, we observed that miR-146a-5p directly targeted interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase1 (IRAK1) and nuclear factor of activated T cells 5 (NFAT5), which contributed to the inflammation response and the polarization of M1 microglia/macrophages.CONCLUSION: We demonstrated that miR-146a-5p-riched BMSCs-Exos could offer neuroprotection and functional improvements after ICH through reducing neuronal apoptosis, and inflammation associated with the inhibition of microglial M1 polarization by downregulating the expression of IRAK1 and NFAT5.
Coal fly dust (CFD)-induced asthma model is used as an ambient particulate matter model of serious pulmonary damage. We aimed to evaluate the effects of a combination of ginseng and Salvia plebeia R. Br extract (KGC-03-PS; KG3P) and its individual components (hispidulin, nepetin and rosmarinic acid) in a CFD-induced mouse model of airway inflammation (asthma). We also evaluated signal transduction by KG3P and its individual components in the alveolar macrophage cell line, MH-S cells. In vitro, KG3P and its individual components inhibited nitric oxide production and expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and cytokines (iNOS, COX-2, IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α) through the NF-κB and MAPK pathways in coal fly ash (CFA)-induced inflammation in MH-S cells. Moreover, in the CFD-induced asthma model in mice, KG3P and its predominant individual component, nepetin, inhibited Asymmetric Dimethyl arginine (ADMA) and Symmetric Dimethyl arginine (SDMA) in serum, and decreased the histopathologic score in the lungs. A significant reduction in the neutrophils and immune cells in BALF and lung tissue was demonstrated, with significant reduction in the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines. Finally, IRAK-1 localization was also potently inhibited by KG3P and nepetin. Thus, KG3P extract can be considered as a potent candidate for amelioration of airway inflammation.
AIM: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease affecting about 1% of world population. Three polymorphisms of Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) gene, rs3027898, rs1059702 and rs1059703, are studied to associate with RA risk. However, the findings are inconclusive. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to derive a more precise estimation of the impact of the 3 polymorphisms on RA risk.METHOD: The strength of association between 3 polymorphisms and RA risk was assessed by calculating odds ratios (ORs) with the corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs).RESULTS: Overall, for rs3027898 polymorphism, no association was observed in pooled analysis, but the stratified analysis suggested that rs3027898 CA genotype was associated with a reduced risk of RA in an Asian population (heterozygous model: OR = 0.79, 95% CI = 0.66-0.96, P = .018). Rs1059702 polymorphism was related with an increased RA risk (homozygous model: OR = 1.59, 95% CI = 1.19-2.13, P = .002, heterozygous model: OR = 1.49, 95% CI = 1.17-1.88, P = .001, and allele comparison model: OR = 1.35, 95% CI = 1.20-1.53, P < .001). Moreover, rs1059703 was also associated with an increased RA risk (dominant model: OR = 1.26, 95% CI = 1.07-1.49, P = .006), especially in Caucasian populations.CONCLUSION: These results indicated that all 3 Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) gene polymorphisms, rs3027898, rs1059702 and rs1059703 were related to RA risk.
BACKGROUND: Urinary exosomes, especially microRNAs (miRNAs) packaged within, are ideal sources of renal damage markers. We investigated the association between exosomal miR-146a, (anti-inflammatory regulator) and disease activity, proteinuria and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) flares over a 36-month follow-up period.METHODS: We isolated urinary exosomes from 41 SLE patients, 27 with lupus nephritis (LN) and 20 healthy controls, and exosomal miR-146a, quantified by the real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), was correlated with histological features in 13 renal biopsies. We also analysed the association between the exosomal miR-146a and TRAF6 axis.RESULTS: Exosomal miR-146a showed an inverse association with circulating C3 and C4 complement components, proteinuria, and with histological features such as chronicity index. This marker was able to identify LN with an AUC of 0.82 (p = 0.001). Basal exosomal miR-146a was associated with disease activity and proteinuria changes and was an independent marker of 36-month follow-up flares (OR 7.08, p = 0.02). Pathway analysis identified IRAK1 and TRAF6 as miR-146a target genes. Finally, in vitro experiments suggested that miR-146a exerts a protective effect through negative regulation of inflammation by suppressing IRAK1 and TRAF6.CONCLUSIONS: Urinary exosomal miR-146a levels are correlated with lupus activity, proteinuria and histological features, discriminating patients with LN and being a good baseline marker of SLE flares. We have identified a relevant biological miR-146a-TRAF6 axis association in LN renal fibrosis progression.
BACKGROUND: Early brain injury (EBI) has been thought to be a key factor affecting the prognosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Many pathologies are involved in EBI, with inflammation and neuronal death being crucial to this process. Resolvin D1 (RvD1) has shown superior anti-inflammatory properties by interacting with lipoxin A4 receptor/formyl peptide receptor 2 (ALX/FPR2) in various diseases. However, it remains not well described about its role in the central nervous system (CNS). Thus, the goal of the present study was to elucidate the potential functions of the RvD1-ALX/FPR2 interaction in the brain after SAH.METHODS: We used an in vivo model of endovascular perforation and an in vitro model of hemoglobin (Hb) exposure as SAH models in the current study. RvD1 was used at a concentration of 25 nM in our experiments. Western blotting, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), immunofluorescence, and other chemical-based assays were performed to assess the cellular localizations and time course fluctuations in ALX/FPR2 expression, evaluate the effects of RvD1 on Hb-induced primary microglial activation and neuronal damage, and confirm the role of ALX/FPR2 in the function of RvD1.RESULTS: ALX/FPR2 was expressed on both microglia and neurons, but not astrocytes. RvD1 exerted a good inhibitory effect in the microglial pro-inflammatory response induced by Hb, possibly by regulating the IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB or MAPK signaling pathways. RvD1 could also potentially attenuate Hb-induced neuronal oxidative damage and apoptosis. Finally, the mRNA expression of IRAK1/TRAF6 in microglia and GPx1/bcl-xL in neurons was reversed by the ALX/FPR2-specific antagonist Trp-Arg-Trp-Trp-Trp-Trp-NH2 (WRW4), indicating that ALX/FPR2 could mediate the neuroprotective effects of RvD1.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study indicated that the RvD1-ALX/FPR2 interaction could potentially play dual roles in the CNS, as inhibiting Hb promoted microglial pro-inflammatory polarization and ameliorating Hb induced neuronal oxidant damage and death. These results shed light on a good therapeutic target (ALX/FPR2) and a potential effective drug (RvD1) for the treatment of SAH and other inflammation-associated brain diseases.
Jieduquyuziyin prescription (JP) has been used to treat systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Although the effectiveness of JP in the treatment of SLE has been clinically proven, the underlying mechanisms have yet to be completely understood. We observed the therapeutic actions of JP in MRL/lpr mice and their bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) and the potential mechanism of their inhibition of inflammatory activity. To estimate the effect of JP on suppressing inflammatory activity, BMDMs of MRL/lpr and MRL/MP mice were treated with JP-treated serum, and MRL/lpr mice were treated by JP for 8 weeks. Among them, JP and its treated serum were subjected to quality control, and BMDMs were separated and identified. The results showed that in the JP group of BMDMs stimulated by Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in MRL/lpr mice, the secretion of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) reduced, and the expressions of Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and its downstream nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway decreased. Meanwhile, the alleviation of renal pathological damage, the decrease of urinary protein and serum anti-dsDNA contents, the inhibition of TNF-α level, and then the suppression of the IRAK1-NF-κB inflammatory signaling in the spleen and kidney, confirmed that the therapeutic effect of JP. These results demonstrated that JP could inhibit the inflammatory activity of MRL/lpr mice and their BMDMs by suppressing the activation of IRAK1-NF-κB signaling and was supposed to be a good choice for the treatment of SLE.
As a key molecule in innate immune signalling pathway, interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) mediates downstream signalling cascades in immune response. In the present study, an IRAK1 orthologue was characterized from rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), with a 2115 bp open reading frame (ORF), encoding a protein of 704 amino acids (aa). Multiple alignments showed that IRAK1 contains highly conserved features among different species, with a conservative N-terminal death domain (DD) and a C-terminal conserved serine/threonine protein kinase (STKc) domain. Expression analysis indicated that IRAK1 was widely expressed in examined organs/tissues, with the highest level observed in muscle and lowest in stomach. In RTG-2 cell line, the induced expression of IRAK1 was observed following the stimulation by the fish bacterial pathogen Flavobacterium columnare. Luciferase activity assays revealed that IRAK1 induced significantly the activity of NF-κB in Human embryonic kidney 293T (HEK293T) cell line; but after co-transfected with rainbow trout IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4), the induction was significantly down-regulated when compared with the expression of IRAK1 alone. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays indicated that IRAK1 was associated with rainbow trout myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), IRAK4 and TNF receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6) in transfected HEK293T cells, and may form a complex with MyD88, IRAK4 and TRAF6 during the signalling pathway.
BACKGROUND: A previous study showed that dibutyl phthalate (DBP) exposure disrupted the growth of testicular Sertoli cells (SCs). In the present study, we aimed to investigate the potential mechanism by which DBP promotes juvenile SC proliferation in vivo and in vitro.METHODS: Timed pregnant BALB/c mice were exposed to vehicle, or DBP (50, 250, and 500 mg/kg/day) from 12.5 days of gestation until delivery. In vitro, CCK-8 and EdU incorporation assays were performed to determine the effect of monobutyl phthalate (MBP), the active metabolite of DBP, on the proliferation of TM4 cells, which are a juvenile testicular SC cell line. Western blotting analysis, quantitative PCR (q-PCR), and flow cytometry were performed to analyse the expression of genes and proteins related to the proliferation and apoptosis of TM4 cells. Coimmunoprecipitation was used to determine the relationship between the ubiquitination of interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and the effect of MBP on promoting the proliferation of TM4 cells.RESULTS: In the 50 mg/kg/day DBP-exposed male mice offspring, the number of SCs was significantly increased. Consistent with the in vivo results, in vitro experiments revealed that 0.1 mM MBP treatment promoted the proliferation of TM4 cells. Furthermore, the data showed that 0.1 mM MBP-mediated downregulation of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Pellino 2 (Peli2) increased ubiquitination of IRAK1 by K63, which activated MAPK/JNK signalling, leading to the proliferation of TM4 cells.CONCLUSIONS: Prenatal exposure to DBP led to abnormal proliferation of SCs in prepubertal mice by affecting ubiquitination of the key proliferation-related protein IRAK1 via downregulation of Peli2.
PURPOSE: Neonatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is an essential factor underlying neonatal death and disability. This study sought to explore the role of miR-146b-5p in regulating neonatal HIE.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In vitro and in vivo HIE models were established in PC12 cells and 10-day neonatal Sprague Dawley rats, respectively. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to assess miR-146b-5p expression and inflammatory factors [interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α] in brain lesions and PC12 cells, while enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was employed to detect the expression of oxidative stress factors (SOD and GSH-Px). Gain- and loss-assays of miR-146b-5p were conducted to verify its role in modulating the viability and apoptosis of PC12 cells under oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) treatment. Expression of TLR4, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1, and NF-κB were examined by qRT-PCR and/or Western blot. Dual luciferase activity assay was conducted to identify relationships between miR-146b-5p and IRAK1.RESULTS: In the HIE models, significant oxidative stress and inflammatory responses emerged upon upregulation of TLR4/IRAK1/TRAF6/TAK1/NF-κB signaling. Overexpression of miR-146b-5p greatly inhibited OGD-induced PC12 cell injury, inflammatory responses, and oxidative stress. Inhibiting miR-146b-5p, however, had the opposite effects. IRAK1 was found to be a target of miR-146b-5p, and miR-146b-5p overexpression suppressed the activation of IRAK1/TRAF6/TAK1/NF-κB signaling.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that miR-146b-5p overexpression alleviates HIE-induced neuron injury by inhibiting the IRAK1/TRAF6/TAK1/NF-κB pathway.
BACKGROUNDS & AIMS: Alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of chronic liver disease worldwide with limited therapeutic options. Interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 4 (IRAK4), the master kinase of Toll-like receptor (TLR)/IL-1R-mediated signalling activation, is considered a novel therapeutic target in inflammatory diseases, but has not been investigated in the context of ALD.METHODS: IRAK4 phosphorylation and IRAK1 protein were analysed in liver from alcohol-related hepatitis patients and healthy controls. IRAK4 kinase activity-inactive knock-in (Irak4 KI) mice and bone marrow chimeric mice were exposed to chronic ethanol-induced liver injury. IL-1β-induced IRAK4-mediated signalling and acute phase response were investigated in cultured hepatocytes. IRAK1/4 inhibitor was used to test the therapeutic potential for ethanol-induced liver injury in mice.RESULTS: Increased IRAK4 phosphorylation and reduced IRAK1 protein were found in livers of patients with alcoholic hepatitis. In the chronic ethanol-induced liver injury mouse model, hepatic inflammation and hepatocellular damage were attenuated in Irak4 KI mice. IRAK4 kinase activity promotes expression of acute phase proteins in response to ethanol exposure, including C-reactive protein and serum amyloid A1 (SAA1). SAA1 and IL-1β synergistically exacerbate ethanol-induced cell death ex vivo. Pharmacological blockage of IRAK4 kinase abrogated ethanol-induced liver injury, inflammation, steatosis, as well as acute phase gene expression and protein production in mice.CONCLUSIONS: Our data elucidate the critical role of IRAK4 kinase activity in the pathogenesis of ethanol-induced liver injury in mice and provide preclinical validation for use of an IRAK1/4 inhibitor as a new potential therapeutic strategy for the treatment of ALD.LAY SUMMARY: Herein, we have identified the role of IRAK4 kinase activity in the development of alcohol-induced liver injury in mice. Hepatocyte-specific IRAK4 is associated with an acute phase response and release of proinflammatory cytokines/chemokines, which synergistically exacerbate alcohol-induced hepatocyte cell death ex vivo. Pharmacological inhibition of IRAK4 kinase activity effectively attenuates alcohol-induced liver injury in mice and could have therapeutic implications.
Centella asiatica (L.) Urb. (C. asiatica) has been widely treated for inflammation-related diseases in China for thousands of years. While C. asiatica showed relevant effects as traditional medicine, the mechanism of C. asiatica suppressing inflammation has not been thoroughly investigated. Therefore, this study was conducted to reveal the anti-inflammatory mechanism of methanol fraction from C. asiatica (MCA) at the molecular level in murine macrophages. Levels of inflammation-related mediators were observed with treatment of MCA. MCA significantly suppressed nitric oxide production and iNOS expression in RAW 264.7 macrophages. Prostaglandin E2 production was alleviated by MCA via the downregulation of cyclooxygenase-2. MCA treatment also reduced pro-inflammatory tumor necrosis factor-[Formula: see text] and interleukin (IL)-6 levels. LPS/D-GalN-induced acute hepatitis in mouse was alleviated by MCA treatment. In addition, MCA decreased the phosphorylation of inhibitory [Formula: see text]B[Formula: see text] (I[Formula: see text]B[Formula: see text]) at Ser32/36 and thereby blocked I[Formula: see text]B[Formula: see text] degradation. TXY motif phosphorylation in the activation loops of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) was also suppressed by MCA treatment. Further investigation revealed that MCA inhibited transforming growth factor-[Formula: see text]-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) phosphorylation and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) degradation, the upstream kinases activating nuclear factor [Formula: see text]B and MAPKs. Taken together, MCA exhibited anti-inflammatory properties via the downregulation of IRAK1-TAK1 signaling pathways.
Accumulating evidence indicates that macrophage polarization plays a crucial role in coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3)-induced viral myocarditis (VM). Our previous study demonstrated that long noncoding ribonucleic acid (lncRNA) AK085865 ablation confers susceptibility to VM by regulating macrophage polarization. However, the detailed molecular mechanisms by which AK085865 regulates macrophage polarization remain to be explored. In this study, we found that AK085865 specifically interacts with interleukin enhancer-binding factor 2 (ILF2) and facilitates M2 macrophage polarization by functioning as a negative regulator in the ILF2-ILF3 complex-mediated microRNA (miRNA or miR) processing pathway. miR-192 was downregulated, whereas the levels of pri-miR-192 were significantly increased in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) from AK085865-/- mice compared with the BMDMs from wild-type (WT) mice. Conversely, knockdown of ILF2 resulted in elevated levels of mature miR-192 and decreased expression of pri-miR-192 in BMDMs from AK085865-/- mice. Moreover, miR-192 overexpression promoted macrophage M2 polarization in vitro, and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) was identified as a direct target. miR-192 overexpression effectively rescued mice from lethal myocarditis caused by CVB3 infection and switched myocardial-infiltrating macrophages to a predominant M2 phenotype. Collectively, our findings uncover a critical mechanism of AK085865 in the regulation of macrophage polarization in vitro and in vivo and provide a potential, clinically significant therapeutic target.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of iguratimod and its regulatory role on microRNA (miR-146a) and the downstream genes in treating rheumatoid arthritis-fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) rat model.METHODS: RA-FLS was isolated from knee synovial tissue of an active RA patient. In vitro, the effect of miR-146a mimic/inhibition on RA-FLS functions was investigated. Then the effect of Iguratimod on cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, migration, invasion, inflammatory cytokines, miR-146a and its downstream gene/pathway in RA-FLS was evaluated. In vivo, the collagen induced arthritis (CIA) rat model was constructed, then the effects of iguratimod, miR-146a inhibition and their combination on treating CIA rat were assessed.RESULTS: Iguratimod treatment increased miR-146a while decreased cell proliferation, IRAK1 and TRAF6/JNK1 pathway in RA-FLS in a dose-dependent manner. Notably, iguratimod treatment repressed cell proliferation, migration, invasion, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17, IRAK1 and TRAF6/JNK1 pathway in RA-FLS, while miR-146a inhibition alleviated the abovementioned effects of Iguratimod on RA-FLS. The in vivo experiments disclosed that iguratimod reduced systemic arthritis score, and decreased TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17, IRAK1 as well as TRAF6/JNK1 pathway, while enhanced apoptosis in synovial tissue of CIA rat model; and in miR-146a inhibition treated CIA rat model, the effect of iguratimod was diminished.CONCLUSIONS: Iguratimod ameliorates RA progression via regulating miR-146a mediated IRAK1 expression and TRAF6/JNK1 pathway.
AIM: Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a major cause of a variety of liver diseases. Existing antiviral drugs cannot eradicate HBV from our body, and the main reason is unclear on the molecular mechanism of HBV replication. Flap endonuclease 1 (FEN1) can repair relaxed circular DNA (HBV rcDNA) to covalently closed circular DNA (HBV cccDNA) that promotes HBV DNA replication, while its specific regulatory detail remains unclear. In addition, miR-146a is close related to regulation in HBV replication. This study aims to explore whether miR-146a regulates HBV cccDNA formation through FEN1.MAIN METHODS: We investigated the expression of miR-146a, FEN1 and HBV copies in HBV stable replication cell line HepG2.2.15 and its parent cell line HepG2 transfected miR-146a and FEN1 plasmid by qRT-PCR and western blot, to identify the cooperation of Argonaute-2 (Ago2) and miR-146a by Ago2 siRNA and Ago2 RNA Binding Protein Immunoprecipitation (RIP).KEY FINDINGS: Compared with the control group, we found that the expression of miR-146a was significantly up-regulated in HepG2.2.15, and the expression of FEN1 and HBV copies were also significantly up-regulated. On contrary, the expression of target gene of miR-146a, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF6), was significantly decreased in HepG2.2.15. With the use of Ago2 siRNA and then Ago2 RIP, we found that Ago2 performed as a carrier for miR-146a to promote HBV replication.SIGNIFICANCE: The results suggest a novel miR-146a → FEN1 → HBV DNA regulatory axis in HBV replication life. Ago2 cooperates with miR-146a to regulate the transcription and expression level of FEN1 protein through the downstream target gene IRAK1/TRAF6, and to promote HBV replication.
Atherosclerosis is an inflammatory condition of the arteries that has profound incidence and increasing prevalence. Although endothelial cells detect changes in blood flow, how endothelial activation contributes to atherogenic inflammation is not well understood. In this issue of the JCI, Alfaidi et al. used mouse models to explore flow-induced endothelial activation. The authors revealed a role for Nck1 and a specific activator of the innate immune response, the downstream interleukin receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) in NF-κB-mediated inflammation and atherosclerosis susceptibility. These results link disturbed blood flow to NF-κB-mediated inflammation, which promotes atherosclerosis, and provide Nck1 as a potential target for the treatment of atherosclerosis.
PURPOSE: To investigate the effect and mechanism of macrophage membrane-coated nanoparticles (M-NPs) on hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (I/RI) caused by orthotopic liver transplantation. In addition, the advantages of TLR4+/M-NPs compared to M-NPs are discussed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We prepared biomimetic M-NPs and identified their characteristics. M-NPs were injected into an SD rat model of orthotopic liver transplantation, and the anti-inflammatory and anti-I/RI activities of M-NPs were studied in vivo and in vitro. In addition, we overexpressed macrophage membrane Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in vitro and prepared TLR4+/M-NPs. Then, we assessed the characteristics and advantages of TLR4+/M-NPs.RESULTS: The M-NPs neutralized endotoxin, inhibited the overactivation of Kupffer cells (KCs) and suppressed the secretion of inflammatory factors by inhibiting the endotoxin-mediated TLR4/MyD88/IRAK1/NF-κB signaling pathway. In an orthotopic liver transplantation model in SD rats, M-NPs showed significant therapeutic efficacy by neutralizing endotoxin and suppressing the secretion of inflammatory factors. Moreover, overexpression of TLR4 on the macrophage membrane by using a TLR4+-plasmid in vitro effectively reduced the amount of M-NPs needed to neutralize an equivalent dose of endotoxin, reducing the potential risks of NP overuse.CONCLUSION: This study indicates that M-NPs can effectively alleviate I/RI induced by liver transplantation.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore the correlations of micro ribonucleic acid (miR)-146a and interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) gene polymorphisms with ankylosing spondylitis.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 200 patients with ankylosing spondylitis in our hospital were enrolled in the disease group. The diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis was in accordance with the 1984 New York Revised Criteria for Ankylosing Spondylitis. Meanwhile, 200 healthy people were taken as the control group. Peripheral blood was collected from patients in both disease group and control group. Subsequently, polymorphic regions of rs2910164 and rs7702165 in miR-146a and those of rs763737 and rs3027898 in IRAK1 were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The polymorphisms were analyzed by sequencing based on gene expression and clinical data of patients.RESULTS: The allele distribution of miR-146a rs7702165 (p=0.008) and that of IRAK1 rs3027898 (p=0.004) in disease group were significantly different from those in control group. Besides, the allele T frequency of miR-146a rs7702165 and the allele A frequency of IRAK1 rs3027898 were relatively higher in disease group. Statistically significant differences in the genotype distribution of miR-146a rs2910164 (p=0.032) and rs7702165 (p=0.000) and that of IRAK1 rs3027898 (p=0.001) were observed between disease group and control group. In addition, the frequencies of genotypes CG and TT of miR-146a rs7702165 and the frequency of genotype AA of IRAK1 rs3027898 were higher in disease group. Moreover, the distribution in the dominant model of IRAK1 rs3027898 (p=0.011) and that in the recessive model of miR-146a rs7702165 (p=0.015) showed remarkable differences between disease group and control group. The frequency of CC+CA in the dominant model of IRAK1 rs3027898 and that of TG+GG in the recessive model of miR-146a rs7702165 in disease group were lower than those in control group. Additionally, the haplotype CG distribution of miR-146a rs2910164 and rs7702165 (p<0.043) and the haplotype GA distribution of IRAK1 rs763737 and rs3027898 (p=0.035) in disease group displayed significant differences compared with those in control group. It was discovered that the genotype of miR-146a rs2910164 was correlated with the expressions of miR-146a (p=0.024) and IRAK1 (p=0.002). Similarly, IRAK1 gene polymorphism rs763737 was related to the expression of IRAK1 (p=0.023), Furthermore, miR-146a gene polymorphism rs7702165 was associated with the level of human leukocyte antigen B27 (HLA-B27) (p<0.05), and patients with genotype GG exhibited a lower level of HLA-B27. In addition, it was found that IRAK1 gene polymorphism rs3027898 was correlated with the C-reactive protein (CRP) level of patients (p<0.05), and CRP level was relatively high in patients with genotype CC.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-146a and IRAK1 gene polymorphisms are prominently associated with ankylosing spondylitis.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a unique head and neck cancer with highly aggressive and metastatic potential in which distant metastasis is the main reason for treatment failure. Till present, the underlying molecular mechanisms of NPC metastasis remains poorly understood. Here, we identified S100 calcium-binding protein A14 (S100A14) as a functional regulator suppressing NPC metastasis by inhibiting the NF-kB signaling pathway and reversing the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). S100A14 was found to be downregulated in highly metastatic NPC cells and tissues. Immunohistochemical staining of 202 NPC samples revealed that lower S100A14 expression was significantly correlated with shorter patient overall survival (OS) and distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS). S100A14 was also found as an independent prognostic factor for favorable survival. Gain- and loss-of-function studies confirmed that S100A14 suppressed the in vitro and in vivo motility of NPC cells. Mechanistically, S100A14 promoted the ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) to suppress NPC cellular migration. Moreover, S100A14 and IRAK1 established a feedback loop that could be disrupted by the IRAK1 inhibitor T2457. Overall, our findings showed that the S100A14-IRAK1 feedback loop could be a promising therapeutic target for NPC metastasis.
BACKGROUND: Paclitaxel (PTX) resistance is a major obstacle in the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Previously, we have reported that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and its downstream pathways are associated with PTX resistance in TNBC cells. In this study, we sought to investigate the combination treatment of ginsenoside panaxatriol (GPT), one of the main active components in Panax ginseng, with PTX on viability and apoptosis of TNBC PTX resistant cells, and explore the role of IRAK1 mediated signaling pathways in the therapeutic effects.METHODS: CellTiter-Glo and colony formation assays were used to assess cell viability. Flow cytometry was used to analyze subG1 and apoptosis. Western blot was used to detect expressions of proteins involved in apoptosis and the IRAK1/NF-κB and ERK pathways. The mRNA expression of inflammatory cytokines, S100A7/8/9 and cancer stem cell (CSC)-related genes were examined by qPCR. Stem cells were identified by tumor sphere assay. Cell invasion ability was examined by transwell assay.RESULTS: We show that GPT inhibits MDA-MB-231 PTX resistant (MB231-PR) cell viability in a dose-dependent manner. When combined with PTX, GPT synergistically causes more cell death, induces subG1 accumulation and cell apoptosis. Besides, up-regulation of BAX/BCL-2 ratio, and down-regulation of MCL-1 are also observed. Moreover, this combination inhibits IRAK1, NF-κB and ERK1/2 activation, and leads to down-regulation of inflammatory cytokines (IL6, IL8, CXCL1, CCL2), S100A7/9 and CSC-related genes (OCT4, SOX2, NANOG, ALDH1, CD44) expression. In addition, the combination treatment suppresses MB231-PR cell invasion ability, and impairs tumor sphere growth both in MB231-PR and SUM159 PTX resistant (SUM159-PR) cells.CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that GPT can resensitize TNBC PTX resistant cells to PTX by inhibiting the IRAK1/NF-κB and ERK pathways and reducing stem cell characteristics.
The innate immune system allows for rapid recognition of pathogens. Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling is a key aspect of the innate immune response, and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) plays a vital role in the TLR signaling cascade. Each TLR recognizes a distinct set of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that encompass conserved microbial components such as lipopolysaccharides and flagellin. Upon binding of PAMPs and TLR activation, TLR intracellular domains initiate the oligomerization of the myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88), IRAK1, IRAK2, and IRAK4 signaling platform known as the Myddosome complex while also triggering the Toll/IL-1R domain-containing adaptor-inducing IFN-β (TRIF)-dependent pathway. The Myddosome complex initiates signal transduction pathways enabling the activation of NF-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) transcription factors and the subsequent production of inflammatory cytokines. Human IRAK4 deficiency is an autosomal recessive inborn error of immunity that classically presents with blunted or delayed inflammatory response to infection and susceptibility to a narrow spectrum of pyogenic bacteria, particularly Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We describe a case of IRAK4 deficiency in an 11-mo-old boy with concurrent S. pneumoniae bacteremia and S. aureus cervical lymphadenitis with a blunted inflammatory response to invasive infection. Although initial clinical immune profiling was unremarkable, a high degree of suspicion for an innate immune defect prompted genetic sequencing. Genetic testing revealed a novel variant in the IRAK4 gene (c.1049delG, p.(Gly350Glufs*15)) predicted to be likely pathogenic. Functional testing showed a loss of IRAK4 protein expression and abolished TLR signaling, confirming the pathogenicity of this novel IRAK4 variant.
Background: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease. The present study intends to specify rs1059703, rs4810485, and rs1883832 gene polymorphisms of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) and cluster of differentiation 40 (CD40) in RA. IRAK1 is a serine/threonine kinase and CD40 is a tumor necrosis factor receptor, both of which are involved in RA. There are conflicting results on functional effects of these polymorphisms, so we performed this research for a more accurate estimation on rheumatoid arthritis risk. Methods: Two-hundred RA patients diagnosed according to ACR criteria and 200 normal controls participated in this case-control study. DNA Purification kit (Gene Transfer Pioneers, GTP) was used for genomic DNA extraction and three SNPs, including IRAK1 rs1059703 (C/T), CD40 rs1883832 (C/T) and rs4810485 (G/T), were genotyped by PCR-RFLP. The genotypes and allele frequencies of SNPs were analyzed by chi-square test to detect their contribution to RA. Results: A significant correlation was found between rs1059703 T allele (OR = 2.36, 95% CI = 1.7-3.1, p = .0001) and TT and CT genotypes (TT genotype, OR = 2.54, 95%CI = 1.2-3.3, P = .0078, CT genotype; OR = 2.18 95%CI = 1.4-3.2P = .0002) of rs1059703 C/T polymorphism in terms of susceptibility to RA in recessive and over-dominant models. Alleles and genotypes of CD40 SNPs were not significantly different between RA cases and controls. The findings showed significant differences in rs1059703 IRAK1 genotypes with medical and laboratory features of patients. Conclusion: Our results showed that the rs1059703 T allele (risk allele) of IRAK1 gene increases the risk of RA and the severity of disease, affecting the onset age of RA in Iranian patients.
Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) is predominant in females and has been focused on the sexual diploid in immune response. The IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) gene on the X chromosome was recently suggested as strong autoimmune disease-susceptible loci, second to the major histocompatibility complex region. We investigated the frequency of IRAK1 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in children with AITD. In this study, we observed that SNPs of IRAK1 including rs3027898, rs1059703, and rs1059702 in 115 Korean AITD pediatric patients (Graves' disease = 74 [females = 52/males = 22]; Hashimoto disease [HD] = 41 [females = 38/males = 3]; thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy [TAO] = 40 (females = 27/males = 13); without TAO = 75 (females = 63/males = 12); total males = 25, total females = 90; mean age = 11.9 years) and 204 healthy Korean individuals (males = 104/females = 100). The data from cases and controls were analyzed from separate sex-stratified or all combined by χ 2 test for categorical variables and Student t test for numerical variables. Our study revealed that SNPs of IRAK1-associated HD and without TAO but Graves' disease and TAO were not found significant. When cases and controls were analyzed by separate sex, we found that rs3027898 AA, rs1059703 AA, and rs1059702 GG showed disease susceptibility in female AITD, HD, and without TAO. Also, all rs3027898, rs1059703, and rs1059702 were found to be in strong linkage disequilibrium (D' = 0.96-0.98, r2 = 0.83-0.97). The haplotype of 3 SNPs was higher in AITD than in controls (CGA, r2 = 5.42, P = 0.019). Our results suggest that IRAK1 polymorphisms may contribute to the pathogenesis of HD, AITD, and without thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy for females.
BACKGROUND: Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) endotoxin stimulates pro-inflammatory pathways and is a key player in the pathological mechanisms involved in the development of endometritis. This study aimed to investigate LPS-induced DNA methylation changes in bovine endometrial epithelial cells (bEECs), which may affect endometrial function. Following in vitro culture, bEECs from three cows were either untreated (0) or exposed to 2 and 8 μg/mL LPS for 24 h.RESULTS: DNA samples extracted at 0 h and 24 h were sequenced using reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS). When comparing DNA methylation results at 24 h to time 0 h, a larger proportion of hypomethylated regions were identified in the LPS-treated groups, whereas the trend was opposite in controls. When comparing LPS groups to controls at 24 h, a total of 1291 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were identified (55% hypomethylated and 45% hypermethylated). Integration of DNA methylation data obtained here with our previously published gene expression data obtained from the same samples showed a negative correlation (r = - 0.41 for gene promoter, r = - 0.22 for gene body regions, p < 0.05). Differential methylation analysis revealed that effects of LPS treatment were associated with methylation changes for genes involved in regulation of immune and inflammatory responses, cell adhesion, and external stimuli. Gene ontology and pathway analyses showed that most of the differentially methylated genes (DMGs) were associated with cell proliferation and apoptotic processes; and pathways such as calcium-, oxytocin- and MAPK-signaling pathways with recognized roles in innate immunity. Several DMGs were related to systemic inflammation and tissue re-modelling including HDAC4, IRAK1, AKT1, MAP3K6, Wnt7A and ADAMTS17.CONCLUSIONS: The present results show that LPS altered the DNA methylation patterns of bovine endometrial epithelial cells. This information, combined with our previously reported changes in gene expression related to endometrial function, confirm that LPS activates pro-inflammatory mechanisms leading to perturbed immune balance and cell adhesion processes in the endometrium.
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer among women. Chemotherapy is one of the main methods of breast cancer treatment, but this method is increasingly affected due to drug resistance. One of the newly discovered factors associated with drug resistance in cancer cells is interleukin receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between IRAK1 inhibition and sensitivity to methotrexate (MTX). Effects of various concentrations of MTX and constant concentration (1μg/ml) of IRAK1/4 inhibitor was examined on MCF-7, BT-20, BT-549, MB-468 cell lines. Cell viability was examined by water soluble tetrazole -1, and cell apoptosis by flow cytometry. The expression of IRAK1 and BCRP genes was also assessed by real-time PCR method. IRAK1 inhibitor decreased IC50 in all examined cell lines, but the most prominent effect was observed in MB-468. 72 h incubation of cell lines with IRAK inhibitor and MTX, significantly increased the annexin-V and annexin-V/7AAD positive cells, suggesting an apoptotic effect of IRAK on all examined breast cancer cell lines. RT-qPCR test results showed that the IRAK inhibitor had no effect on the expression of BCRP at any time. Our results showed that IRAK inhibitor can increase the chemosensitivity of breast cancer cell lines without effect on BCRP mRNA expression. IRAK inhibitor in combination with MTX can induce apoptosis in breast cancer cell lines.
BACKGROUND: Obesity is associated with chronic inflammation, which contributes to cardiovascular diseases. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are reported to be involved in vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis. Abelmoschus esculentus (AE) and metformin have been suggested to improve inflammation in vascular system. The aim of this study is to evaluate whether miRNAs are involved in high fat induced endothelial inflammation, and whether AE and metformin improve endothelial inflammation by regulating miRNAs.METHODS: We established high fat treated rats and human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs). AE and metformin were added to explore their effects on endothelial inflammation induced by high fat and the possible mechanism.RESULTS: The vascular inflammatory genes were increased in rats treated with high fat diet. The decreased miR-146a and miR-155 were involved in endothelial inflammation induced by high fat through targeting IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and nuclear factor-κB p65 (NF-κB p65), respectively. While AE and metformin could ameliorate the endothelial inflammation by increasing miR-146a and miR-155.CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that miR-146a and miR-155 play roles in the high fat induced endothelial inflammation, which could be potential therapeutic targets. AE and metformin can attenuate endothelial inflammation through regulating miR-146a and miR-155.
Feline panleukopenia is an acute, highly contagious, and fatal infectious disease caused by feline panleukopenia virus (FPV) and has led to severe consequences on pets, economically important animals, and the wildlife industry. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play significant roles in the host-pathogen interaction by modulating cellular factors expression which are essential for viral replication or host innate immune response to infection. However, the role of host miRNA response in FPV infection remains to be discovered. In this study, we screened nine host miRNAs associated with FPV infection that were previously implicated in innate immunity or antiviral functions. We found that miR-1343-5p overexpression strongly promoted FPV-BJ04 genomic DNA. Subsequently, the expression of host miR-1343-5p was upregulated by FPV-BJ04 infection in vitro and in vivo. In addition, we demonstrated that miR-1343-5p was a negative regulator of the IFN-I signaling pathway, thereby promoting FPV infection. Bioinformatic analysis combined with molecular biological assay indicated that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is a putative target of miR-1343-5p. Collectively, our findings emphasize the importance of miR-1343-5p in host defense against FPV, thus, enhancing our understanding of its pathogenic mechanism.
Comment in    J Clin Invest. 2020 Aug 3;130(8):3968-3970.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs), particularly IRAK1 and IRAK4, are important in transducing signal from Toll-like receptor 4. We interrogated if a selective inhibition of IRAK1 could alleviate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced sepsis. In this study, we tested the impact of a novel selective IRAK1 inhibitor Jh-X-119-01 on LPS-induced sepsis in mice. Survival at day 5 was 13.3% in control group where septic mice were treated by vehicle, while the values were 37.5% (p = 0.046, vs. control) and 56.3% (p = 0.003, vs. control) for 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg Jh-X-119-01-treated mice. Jh-X-119-01 alleviated lung injury and reduced production of TNFα and IFNγ in peritoneal macrophages. Jh-X-119-01 decreased phosphorylation of NF-κB and mRNA levels of IL-6 and TNFα in LPS-treated macrophages in vitro. Jh-X-119-01 selectively inhibited IRAK1 phosphorylation comparing with a non-selective IRAK1/4 inhibitor which simultaneously inhibited phosphorylation of IRAK1 and IRAK4. Both Jh-X-119-01 and IRAK1/4 inhibitor increased survival of septic mice, but Jh-X-119-01-treated mice had higher blood CD11b+ cell counts than IRAK1/4 inhibitor-treated ones [24 h: (1.18 ± 0.26) × 106/ml vs. (0.79 ± 0.20) × 106/ml, p = 0.001; 48 h: (1.00 ± 0.30) × 106/ml vs. (0.67 ± 0.23) × 106/ml, p = 0.042]. IRAK1/4 inhibitor induced more apoptosis of macrophages than Jh-X-119-01 did in vitro. IRAK1/4 inhibitor decreased protein levels of anti-apoptotic BCL-2 and MCL-1 in RAW 264.7 and THP-1 cells, an effect not seen in Jh-X-119-01-treated cells. In conclusion, Jh-X-119-01 selectively inhibited activation of IRAK1 and protected mice from LPS-induced sepsis. Jh-X-119-01 showed less toxicity on macrophages comparing with a non-selective IRAK1/4 inhibitor.
Environmental contaminants exposure may lead to detrimental changes to the microRNAs (miRNAs) expression resulting in several health effects. miRNAs, small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression, have multiple transcript targets and thereby regulate several signalling molecules. Even a minor alteration in the abundance of one miRNA can have deep effects on global gene expression. Altered patterns of miRNAs can be responsible for changes linked to various health outcomes, suggesting that specific miRNAs are activated in pathophysiological processes. In this review, we provide an overview of studies investigating the impact of air pollution, organic chemicals, and heavy metals on miRNA expression and the potential biologic effects on humans.Abbreviations: AHRR, aryl-hydrocarbon receptor repressor; AHR, aryl-hydrocarbon receptor; As, arsenic; BCL2, B-cell lymphoma 2; BCL2L11, B-cell lymphoma 2 like 11; BCL6, B-cell lymphoma 6; BPA, bisphenol A; CVD, cardiovascular diseases; CD40, cluster of differentiation 40; CCND1, Cyclin D1; CDKN1A, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A; Cr, chromium; CTBP1, C-terminal binding protein 1; CXCL12, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12; DAZAP1, deleted in azoospermia associated protein 1; DEP, diesel exhaust particles; EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; eNOS, endothelial nitric oxide synthase; EVs, extracellular vesicles; FAK, focal adhesion kinase; FAS, fas cell surface death receptor; FOXO, forkhead box O; HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin; Hg, mercury; HLA-A, human leukocyte antigen A; HMGB, high-mobility group protein B; IFNAR2, interferon alpha receptor subunit 2; IL-6, interleukin-6; IRAK1, interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1; JAK/STAT, janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription; MAPK, mitogen-activated protein kinase; miRNAs, microRNAs; MVs, microvesicles; NCDs, noncommunicable diseases; NFAT, nuclear factor of activated T cells; NFkB, nuclear factor kappa B; NRF2, nuclear factor, erythroid-derived 2; NRG3, neuregulin 3; O3, ozone; OP, organophosphorus pesticides; PAHs, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons; Pb, lead; PCBs, polychlorinated biphenyls; PDCD4, programmed cell death 4; PDGFB, platelet derived growth factor subunit beta; PDGFR, platelet-derived growth factor receptor; PI3K/Akt, phosphoinositide-3-kinase/protein kinase B; PKA, protein kinase A; PM, particulate matter; PRKCQ, protein kinase C theta; PTEN, phosphatase and tensin homolog; SORT1, sortilin 1; TGFβ, transforming growth factor-β; TLR, toll-like receptor; TNF, tumor necrosis factors; TRAF1, tumor necrosis factors-receptor associated factors 1; TRAP, traffic-related air pollution; TREM1, triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1; TRIAP1, TP53 regulated inhibitor of apoptosis 1; VCAM-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1; VEGFA, vascular endothelial growth factor A; XRCC2, X-ray repair cross complementing 2; YBX2, Y-box-binding protein 2; ZEB1, zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 1; ZEB2, zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 2; 8-OH-dG, 8-hydroxy-guanine.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) play important roles in the innate immune system of TLR (Toll-like receptor) signaling pathway. In this paper, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-b (designated as McIRAK-b) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-a (named as McIRAK-a) were obtained based on the transcriptome data, the full length of McIRAK-b was 1815 bp and McIRAK-a was 3168bp, encoding 532 and 978 amino acids, respectively. BLASTp analysis and phylogenetic relationship strongly suggested that the deduced amino acid sequence of McIRAK-b had high homology with IRAK-4 and McIRAK-a was similar to IRAK-1 of other mollusks, especially at their function domains. The expressions of McIRAK-b and McIRAK-a were detected in six tissues including adductor muscle, hemocyte, gills, gonad and hepatopancreas, and the highest expressions appeared both in gills. The expressions of McIRAK-b and McIRAK-a in gills were observed with time-dependent manners after bacterial infections. After being challenged with Vibrio alginolyticus, McIRAK-b expressed significantly and got the peak at 8 h (9.47 times compared with the control group), but the peak appeared at 4 h by being infected with Vibrio parahaemolyticus (12.02 times compared with the control group). The highest point of McIRAK-a mRNA appeared at 12 h (5.16 times) after being challenged with V.alginolyticus and 8 h (4.21 times) for V.parahaemolyticus challenge. The results suggested that IRAK-b and IRAK-a might be important in immune signaling pathway of mussels. The kinase functional domain sequences (S_TKc) of McIRAK-b and McIRAK-a expressed in BL21(DE3) and purified by Ni-NAT Superflow resin conforming to the expected molecular weight with many active sites for their conferring protein-protein interaction functions. This study may provide some further understandings of the regulatory mechanisms in the bivalve innate immune system for IRAKs family.
The aim of the present study was to assess the expression of microRNA-146a (miR-146a) in human lung adenocarcinoma cells, its effect on cellular behaviors, and the underlying molecular mechanisms. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was used to measure miR-146a expression in the human normal lung epithelial cell line, BEAS-2B, and human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines, A549, PC-9 and H1299, to determine whether miR-146a acts as an oncogene or anti-oncogene. miR-146a mimics were transfected into target cells to observe the proliferation, apoptosis, invasion and migration of human lung adenocarcinoma cells. The target genes of miR-146a were predicted using bioinformatics analysis, and binding sites were validated by dual-luciferase reporter assay. Target gene expression at the mRNA and protein levels was measured by RT-qPCR and western blot analysis, respectively. The expression levels of miR-146a in human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines were lower than its expression in BEAS-2B (P<0.01). A549 cell line is a EGFR wild-type lung adenocarcinoma cell line, which is also the most widely studied in NSCLC, and therefore this was chosen as the target cell line for further investigation. Overexpression of miR-146a in A549 cells can inhibit cell proliferation (P<0.05), promote apoptosis (P<0.05), and reduce the cells' migratory ability (P<0.01). Bioinformatics prediction indicated that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6) are the target genes of miR-146a. Dual-luciferase reporter assay showed that miR-146a could specifically bind to 3'-untranslated regions of IRAK1 and TRAF6. The protein and mRNA levels of IRAK1 and TRAF6 were significantly downregulated after miR-146a overexpression in A549 cells (P<0.01). The results of this study demonstrated that the expression of miR-146a in human lung adenocarcinoma cells was significantly lower than in normal lung epithelial cells, indicating that miR-146a acts as an anti-oncogene. miR-146a suppresses the proliferation and migration of human lung adenocarcinoma cells by downregulating the expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6.
TLR4 complexes are essential for the initiation of the LPS-induced innate immune response. The Myddosome, which mainly contains TLR4, TIRAP, MyD88, IRAK1/4 and TRAF6 proteins, is regarded as a major complex of TLR4. Although the Myddosome has been well studied, a quantitative description of the Myddosome assembly dynamics is still lacking. Furthermore, whether some unknown TLR4 complexes exist remains unclear. In this study, we constructed a SWATH-MS data-based mathematical model that describes the component assembly dynamics of TLR4 complexes. In addition to Myddosome, we suggest that a TIRAP-independent MyD88 activation complex is formed upon LPS stimulation, in which TRAF6 is not included. Furthermore, quantitative analysis reveals that the distribution of components in TIRAP-dependent and -independent MyD88 activation complexes are LPS stimulation-dependent. The two complexes compete for recruiting IRAK1/4 proteins. MyD88 forms higher-order assembly in the Myddosome and we show that the strategy to form higher-order assembly is also LPS stimulation-dependent. MyD88 forms a long chain upon weak stimulation, but forms a short chain upon strong stimulation. Higher-order assembly of MyD88 is directly determined by the level of TIRAP in the Myddosome, providing a formation mechanism for efficient signaling transduction. Taken together, our study provides an enhanced understanding of component assembly dynamics and strategies in TLR4 complexes.
PURPOSE: A study was made of the changes in gene expression in elite handball athletes, comparing gene modulation before, after and in the absence of an 8-week nutritional intervention with multivitamin/mineral supplements.METHODS: Thirteen elite handball athletes (aged 22.9 ± 2.7 years) and 13 sedentary controls (aged 20.9 ± 2.8 years) were included. Three timepoints were established: T0 (baseline conditions); T8 (after 8 weeks of supplementation with a multivitamin/mineral complex); and T16 (after 8 weeks in the absence of supplementation). The expressions of a total 112 of genes were evaluated by RT-qPCR analysis with the QuantStudioTM 12K Flex Real-Time PCR System.RESULTS: The analysis revealed different gene regulation profiles of genes implicated in cell communication, cell energy metabolism, inflammation and the immune system, oxidative stress and muscle function in athletes compared to sedentary controls under resting conditions (upregulated genes: effect size = large, ƞ2 = 1.011 to 1.398, p < 0.05; downregulated genes: effect size = large, ƞ2 = 0.846 and 1.070, p < 0.05, respectively). The nutritional intervention encouraged gene upregulation in elite athletes (p < 0.05). In a follow-up investigation, the IRAK1, CD81, ITGB1, ACADS PDHA2 and GPX1 genes were downregulated in athletes, with a moderate main effect for time-by-group interaction (ηP2 = 0.099 to 0.133; p < 0.05). Additionally, nutritional genes such as MTHFR and THTPA revealed a moderate effect over all the timepoints and group interaction in the study (ηP2 = 0.070 to 0.092; p < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Elite handball athletes showed a different expression profile in reference to key genes implicated in several sports performance-related functions compared to the sedentary controls, in addition to modulation of gene expression after multivitamin/mineral supplementation.
PURPOSE: To investigate the effects of low dose endotoxin on transcriptional activity in intestinal epithelium, and its role in necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC).METHODS: Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) were injected into the amniotic cavity of pregnant mice under ultrasound guidance. The effects of LPS on fetal and neonatal intestines were determined. Mouse pups were exposed to low dose LPS (0.01 μg per fetus) prenatally and subjected to experimental NEC after birth. The incidence and severity of NEC, as well as intestinal permeability, NF-κB activation, and IL-6 expression were studied. The signaling pathways in the intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) that were activated by LPS were also investigated.RESULTS: Low dose LPS did not increase apoptosis, myeloperoxidase activity, histological injury or NF-κB activity in fetal intestines. However, prenatal low dose LPS exposure disturbed the transient and self-limited activation of NF-κB in neonatal intestines after birth. Importantly, it increased the incidence and severity of experimental NEC in neonatal mice. In primary IECs, low dose LPS induced IRAK-1 expression via activation of GSK3β. Elevated IRAK-1 levels prolonged the activation of IECs upon stimulation by high dose LPS.CONCLUSION: Prenatal low dose endotoxin exposure disturbs self-limited postnatal epithelial cell activation and predisposes the neonatal intestine to NEC.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Not applicable (experimental animal study).
Microglial activation and sustained inflammation in the brain can lead to neuronal damage. Hence, limiting microglial activation and brain inflammation is a good therapeutic strategy for inflammatory-associated central nervous disease. MiR-146a is a promising therapeutic microRNA, since it can negatively regulate the inflammatory response. We thus investigated the expression changes of miR-146a after experimental induction of a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in vivo and in vitro, and we assessed the anti-inflammatory effects of miR-146a in microglial cells in vitro. Primary microglial cells were preincubated with miR-146a before hemoglobin (Hb) treatment. The results indicated that miR-146a decreased gene expression of Hb-induced pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α and IL-1β) and phenotype-related genes (iNOS and CD86) through IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB or MAPK signaling pathways, suggesting its pro-resolution activity in microglia. However, contrary to the LPS-induced microglia or macrophage activation model, we did not observe an elevation in miR-146a after activation. Overall, our findings demonstrated that miR-146a was involved in the regulation of brain inflammation and could be considered a novel therapeutic agent for treating brain inflammation.
In vertebrates, IL-10 is an anti-inflammatory factor that serves as a key inhibitory role in a wide range of immune responses. IRAK1 (IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1), a key molecule in the inflammatory signal of IL-1R/TLR, plays an important pivotal role in regulating the autoimmunity of body. STAT3 (Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) activated by IRAK1 participates in inflammation, tumorigenesis, metabolic disorders and immune response. Under the stimulation of LPS, IRAK1 enters the nucleus to form a dimer with STAT3 and regulates the expression of IL-10. However, the relationship between fish IRAK1 and STAT3 has not been reported. To explain the anti-inflammation in fish, we amplified and identified the complete open reading frame of grass carp IRAK1 (CiIRAK1) and STAT3 (CiSTAT3) based on the existing sequences. The expression of CiIRAK1 and CiSTAT3 were up-regulated significantly under the stimulation of LPS. This result suggests that both CiIRAK1 and CiSTAT3 may be involved in LPS-induced TLR4 pathway. The subcellular localization experiment revealed that CiIRAK1 is distributed in cytoplasm and enters nucleus after LPS stimulation. CiSTAT3 is distributed in both cytoplasm and nucleus with or without LPS stimulation. Immunoprecipitation assay revealed that CiIRAK1 interacted with CiSTAT3 under LPS stimulation. However in absence of LPS stimulation, CiIRAK1 and CiSTAT3 cannot interact with each other. Subsequently, immunofluorescence colocalization experiment further proved the interaction of CiIRAK1 and CiSTAT3 in nucleus under LPS stimulation. The dual luciferase reporter assays indicated that the binding of CiIRAK1 and CiSTAT3 synergistically enhanced the activity of CiIL-10 promoter.
Pegbovigrastim is a commercial long-acting analog of bovine granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rbG-CSF) that promotes the increased count and functionality of polymorphonuclear cells in dairy cows around the time of parturition. We hypothesized that pegbovigrastim administered to periparturient cows at approximately seven days before parturition and within 24 hours after calving could affect the profiles of gene networks involved in leukocyte function. Blood was collected on Day 3 after calving from treated groups (pegbovigrastim (PEG); 13 Simmental (seven multiparous and six primiparous) and 13 Holstein (seven multiparous and six primiparous) cows) that received pegbovigrastim (Imrestor; Elanco Animal Health) and controls (CTR; 13 Simmental (seven multiparous and six primiparous) and 13 Holstein (six multiparous and seven primiparous) cows) that received saline solution. Blood from all cows was sampled from the jugular vein in a PAXgene Blood RNA System tube (Preanalytix, Hombrechtikon, Switzerland) for RNA extraction. The RT-qPCR analysis was performed to investigate a panel of 34 genes of interest, representing recognition, immune mediation, migration, cell adhesion, antimicrobial strategies, inflammatory cascade, oxidative pattern, and leukotrienes in whole blood leukocytes. Normalized data were subjected to the MIXED model of SAS (ver. 9.4) with treatment, breed, parity, and their interaction as fixed effects. Compared with CTR, whole blood leukocytes of PEG cows had higher expression of genes involved in recognition and immune modulation (CD14, CD16, MYD88, TLR2, and TLR4), cell adhesion (ITGB2, ITGAL, TLN1, SELL, SELPLG, and CD44), antimicrobial activity (MMP9, LTF, and LCN2), and inflammatory cascade (CASP1, TNFRSF1A, IL1B, IL1R, IL18, IRAK1, NLRP3, and S100A8). This suggested an improvement of migration, adhesion, and antimicrobial ability and an enhanced inflammatory response, which in turn could trigger immune cell activation and enhance function. Expression of SOD2 and ALOX5 was also greater in the PEG group. In contrast, compared with CTR cows, PEG led to lower expression of RPL13A, ALOX15, IL8, and TNF. Overall, leukocytes from Simmental compared with Holstein cows had greater expression of IDO1, RPL13A, ALOX5, CD44, CX3CR1, ITGB2, and TNFA, whereas expression of CD16 and TLR2 was lower. Overall, compared with multiparous cows, primiparous cows had higher expression of IL1B, IL18, MYD88, SELL, and TLR2 and lower expression of MMP9. Simmental cows seemed more sensitive to induction of the immune system after calving, as revealed by the greater abundance of genes involved in immune system adaptation, regardless of pegbovigrastim treatment. Primiparous cows undergoing a new stress condition with respect to older cows were characterized by leukocytes with a higher inflammatory response. In conclusion, pegbovigrastim led to higher expression levels of most genes involved in the processes investigated, suggesting a thorough activation of the immune machinery during the critical post-partum period.
Preterm birth (PTB) is a major cause of neonatal mortality and morbidity, often triggered by chorioamnionitis or intrauterine inflammation (IUI) with or without infection. Recently, there has been a strong association of IL-1 with PTB. We hypothesized that IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), a key signaling mediator in the TLR/IL-1 pathway, plays a critical role in PTB. In human fetal membranes (FM) collected immediately after birth from women delivering preterm, p-IRAK1 was significantly increased in all the layers of FM with chorioamnionitis, compared with no-chorioamnionitis subjects. In a preterm rhesus macaque model of IUI given intra-amniotic LPS, induction of p-IRAK1 and downstream proinflammatory signaling mediators were seen in the FM. In a C57BL/6J wild-type PTB mouse model of IUI given intrauterine LPS, an IRAK1 inhibitor significantly decreased PTB and increased live birth in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, IRAK1 knockout mice were protected from LPS-induced PTB, which was seen in wild-type controls. Activation of IRAK1 was maintained by K63-mediated ubiquitination in preterm FM of humans with chorioamnionitis and rhesus and mouse IUI models. Mechanistically, IRAK1 induced PTB in the mouse model of IUI by upregulating expression of COX-2. Thus, our data from human, rhesus, and mouse demonstrates a critical role IRAK1 in IUI and inflammation-associated PTB and suggest it as potential therapeutic target in IUI-induced PTB.
Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathways need to be tightly controlled to avoid excessive inflammation and unwanted damage to the host. Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88) is a critical adaptor of TLR signaling. Here, we identified the speckle-type POZ protein (SPOP) as a MyD88-associated protein. SPOP was recruited to MyD88 following TLR4 activation. TLR4 activation also caused the translocation of SPOP from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. SPOP depletion promoted the aggregation of MyD88 and recruitment of the downstream signaling kinases IRAK4, IRAK1 and IRAK2. Consistently, overexpression of SPOP inhibited the TLR4-mediated activation of NF-κB and production of inflammatory cytokines, whereas SPOP depletion had the opposite effects. Furthermore, knockdown of SPOP increased MyD88 aggregation and inflammatory cytokine production upon TLR2, TLR7 and TLR9 activation. Our findings reveal a mechanism by which MyD88 is regulated and highlight a role for SPOP in limiting inflammatory responses.
Context: miR-146a, its targets (IRAK1, TRAF6) and NF-κB transcription factor play a fundamental role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Positive effects of drug β-d-mannuronic acid (M2000) were proven on their expression in the HEK-Blue hTLR2 cell line, and results of its phase III clinical trial on RA patients were encouraging.Objective: This research aimed to investigate the effects of M2000 on expression of these genes and serum levels of IL-6 and TNF-α as pro-inflammatory cytokines in RA patients.Material and methods: In this study (Trial Registration Number: IRCT2017100213739N10), 12 RA patients (according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria) and 12 healthy subjects (as control group) were selected. The gene expression of miR-146a, IRAK1, TRAF6, and NF-κB were measured at the baseline and after 12 weeks M2000 therapy, using quantitative real-time PCR method. Moreover, the serum levels of IL-6 and TNF-α were evaluated at the similar times by ELISA method.Results: Our findings showed that the gene expression of miR-146a, IRAK1, TRAF6, and NF-κB significantly decreased after 12 weeks M2000 therapy in RA patients (0.81-, 0.68-, 0.79-, 0.82-fold, with p < .05, p < .01, p < .01, p < .05, respectively). Furthermore, the serum levels of IL-6 and TNF-α significantly reduced in these patients after 12 weeks M2000 therapy (both with p < .05).Conclusions: The present research results determined the part of molecular mechanisms of drug M2000 in RA treatment, based on the expression and function modification of miR-146a, IRAK1, TRAF6, NF-κB, IL-6 and TNF-α.
Toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated innate immune responses are critically involved in the pathogenesis of myasthenia gravis (MG), an autoimmune disorder affecting neuromuscular junction mainly mediated by antiacetylcholine receptor antibodies. Considerable evidence indicate that uncontrolled TLR activation and chronic inflammation significantly contribute to hyperplastic changes and germinal center (GC) formation in the MG thymus, ultimately leading to autoantibody production and autoimmunity. miR-146a is a key modulator of innate immunity, whose dysregulation has been associated with autoimmune diseases. It acts as inhibitor of TLR pathways, mainly by targeting the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling transducers, interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6); miR-146a is also able to target c-REL, inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS), and Fas cell surface death receptor (FAS), known to regulate B-cell function and GC response. Herein, we investigated the miR-146a contribution to the intrathymic MG pathogenesis. By real-time PCR, we found that miR-146a expression was significantly downregulated in hyperplastic MG compared to control thymuses; contrariwise, IRAK1, TRAF6, c-REL, and ICOS messenger RNA (mRNA) levels were upregulated and negatively correlated with miR-146a levels. Microdissection experiments revealed that miR-146a deficiency in hyperplastic MG thymuses was not due to GCs, but restricted to the GC-surrounding medulla, characterized by IRAK1 overexpression. We also showed higher c-REL and ICOS mRNA levels, and lower FAS mRNA levels, in GCs than in the remaining medulla, according to the contribution of these molecules in GC formation. By double immunofluorescence, an increased proportion of IRAK1-expressing dendritic cells and macrophages was found in hyperplastic MG compared to control thymuses, along with GC immunoreactivity for c-REL. Interestingly, in corticosteroid-treated MG patients intrathymic miR-146a and mRNA target levels were comparable to those of controls, suggesting that immunosuppressive therapy may restore the microRNA (miRNA) levels. Indeed, an effect of prednisone on miR-146a expression was demonstrated in vitro on peripheral blood cells. Serum miR-146a levels were lower in MG patients compared to controls, indicating dysregulation of the circulating miRNA. Our overall findings strongly suggest that defective miR-146a expression could contribute to persistent TLR activation, lack of inflammation resolution, and hyperplastic changes in MG thymuses, thus linking TLR-mediated innate immunity to B-cell-mediated autoimmunity. Furthermore, they unraveled a new mechanism of action of corticosteroids in inducing control of autoimmunity in MG via miR-146a.
OBJECTIVE: miR-146a is widely induced during the immune response. However, little is known about the biogenesis, function and mechanism of miR-146a in cementoblasts during the pathogenesis of periodontitis. This study aimed to investigate the effects of miR-146a in murine cementoblast-derived OCCM-30 cells following IL-1β stimulation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: OCCM-30 cells were cultured and exposed to IL-1β. IL-6, IL-1β and TNF-α, and miR-146a-5p expression was assessed by qRT-PCR. Mimics/inhibitors were transiently transfected into cells to determine the function of miR-146a-5p. Signalling pathways including p38 MAPK, ERK1/2 and NF-κB were studied by using specific inhibitors. The indicated proteins were measured by Western blot analysis and ELISA.RESULTS: In IL-1β-stimulated OCCM-30 cells, the expression levels of miR-146a-5p along with IL-6 and IL-1β increased in a time-dependent manner. The ERK1/2, p38 MAPK and NF-κB pathway were activated upon IL-1β stimulation. Blocking the NF-κB pathway decreased IL-6, IL-1β and miR-146a-5p expression. The overexpression of miR-146a-5p reduced IL-6 and IL-1β expression, while the inhibition of miR-146a-5p increased IL-6 and IL-1β expression in IL-1β-treated OCCM-30 cells. miR-146a-5p attenuated IL-6 and IL-1β expression via the IRAK1/TRAF6 pathway.CONCLUSION: This study suggested that miR-146a-5p attenuates IL-1β-induced inflammatory factors in cementoblast-derived cell line.
BACKGROUND: X chromosome-linked interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) polymorphisms have been demonstrated to be associated with the risks of several autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, systemic sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and autoimmune thyroid diseases. However, no studies have investigated the association of IRAK1 polymorphisms with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD). This case-control study was performed to determine the correlation between IRAK1 polymorphisms and the risk of NMOSD.METHODS: Two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs1059703G>A and rs3027898C>A of IRAK1 were selected and genotyped using SNPscan in a Chinese cohort, including 332 patients with NMOSD and 520 healthy controls. Chi-square tests and logistic regression analyses were used to determine the associations between IRAK1 polymorphisms and the risk of NMOSD.RESULTS: Patients with NMOSD showed a lower frequency of the minor allele A of rs1059703 than did controls (Odds ratio [OR] = 0.68; 95% confidence intervals [CI], 0.52-0.88; Pcorr = 0.007). Compared with wild genotype GG of rs1059703, homozygous mutation AA and heterozygous mutation GA were significantly associated with the decreased risk of NMOSD after adjusting for sex and age (adjusted OR = 0.64; 95%CI, 0.49-0.84; Pcorr = 0.002). Similar associations were also observed for IRAK1 rs3027898C>A. Stratification analysis according to sex revealed that the significantly different allele distributions of the two SNPs were mainly found in females. However, IRAK1 polymorphisms were not correlated with aquaporin-4-IgG, onset symptoms, or age at onset.CONCLUSIONS: This study is first to demonstrate that X-chromosome-linked IRAK1 polymorphisms are associated with the risk of NMOSD and provide novel insights into the underlying mechanisms of this disease. Further studies are needed to elucidate the function of IRAK1 variants in the pathogenesis of NMOSD and the underlying molecular mechanisms.
Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is necessary but not sufficient for primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) development. Alterations in cellular signaling pathways are also a characteristic of PEL. Other B cell lymphomas have acquired an oncogenic mutation in the myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MYD88) gene. The MYD88 L265P mutant results in the activation of interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase (IRAK). To probe IRAK/MYD88 signaling in PEL, we employed CRISPR/Cas9 technology to generate stable deletion clones in BCBL-1Cas9 and BC-1Cas9 cells. To look for off-target effects, we determined the complete exome of the BCBL-1Cas9 and BC-1Cas9 cells. Deletion of either MYD88, IRAK4, or IRAK1 abolished interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) signaling; however, we were able to grow stable subclones from each population. Transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis of IRAK4 knockout cell lines (IRAK4 KOs) showed that the IRAK pathway induced cellular signals constitutively, independent of IL-1β stimulation, which was abrogated by deletion of IRAK4. Transient complementation with IRAK1 increased NF-κB activity in MYD88 KO, IRAK1 KO, and IRAK4 KO cells even in the absence of IL-1β. IL-10, a hallmark of PEL, was dependent on the IRAK pathway, as IRAK4 KOs showed reduced IL-10 levels. We surmise that, unlike B cell receptor (BCR) signaling, MYD88/IRAK signaling is constitutively active in PEL, but that under cell culture conditions, PEL rapidly became independent of this pathway.IMPORTANCE One hundred percent of primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) cases are associated with Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). PEL cell lines, such as BCBL-1, are the workhorse for understanding this human oncovirus and the host pathways that KSHV dysregulates. Understanding their function is important for developing new therapies as well as identifying high-risk patient groups. The myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MYD88)/interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase (IRAK) pathway, which has progrowth functions in other B cell lymphomas, has not been fully explored in PEL. By performing CRISPR/Cas9 knockout (KO) studies targeting the IRAK pathway in PEL, we were able to determine that established PEL cell lines can circumvent the loss of IRAK1, IRAK4, and MYD88; however, the deletion clones are deficient in interleukin-10 (IL-10) production. Since IL-10 suppresses T cell function, this suggests that the IRAK pathway may serve a function in vivo and during early-stage development of PEL.
Background: Morphine plays an irreplaceable role in relieving severe pain clinically, while long-term medication inevitably leads to drug resistance. MicroRNA (miR) 146a has been reported to be a negative regulator in the process of morphine-tolerance formation. This study aimed to investigate how miR-146a affects the development of morphine analgesic tolerance.Methods: The morphine-tolerance rat model was established by means of one-week continuous morphine administration. Paw withdrawal latency test was performed every day, and spinal cord samples were dissected on the seventh day for Q-PCR and Western blotting to detect the expression level of miR-146a, and IRAK1/TRAF6 participated in TLR4 signaling pathway.Results: The expression of miR-146 was significantly decreased in morphine-tolerant model. Also, overexpression of miR-146a reduced the resistance caused by morphine, followed by the down-regulation of IRAK1/TRAF6 in TLR4 pathway. The inhibition of miR-146a remarkably decreased paw withdrawal latency as well as increased the expression levels of TLR4 signaling pathway-related molecules, IRAK1 and TRAF6.Conclusion: This study suggests that miR-146a attenuates morphine tolerance by inhibiting the expression of IRAK1/TRAF6 in TLR4 pathway, which could provide an essential experimental basis for the settlement of morphine resistance-associated matters.
BACKGROUND: Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), as competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs), can regulate various pathophysiological processes by binding competitively to microRNAs at the post-transcription level. Our previous work demonstrated that miR-146a-5p was lowly expressed in diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) rats. However, the ceRNA network in DPN mediated by lncRNAs and miR-146a-5p remains to be explored.METHODS: Two groups of rats (n=4 per group), a type 2 diabetes (T2DM) group and a DPN group, were used in this study. Sciatic nerve conduction velocity (NCV) of each rat was determined at the 6th and the 12th week. LncRNA microarray analysis was performed in the sciatic nerve of DPN and T2DM rats. Based on the TargetScan algorithm and the miRanda database, we determined the differentially expressed (DE) lncRNAs bound to miR-146a-5p. Furthermore, we verified the DE lncRNAs potentially bound to miR-146a-5p by qRT-PCR. The genes targeted by miR-146a-5p were identified by bioinformatics prediction and experimental techniques.RESULTS: We found 413 DE lncRNAs between DPN and T2DM rats (|log2FC| ≥ 2 and adjust P ≤ 0.05). Eight DE lncRNAs were predicted to bind to miR-146a-5p by both algorithms, of which four were verified by qRT-PCR. TRAF6, IRAK1, and SMAD4 were identified as miR-146a-5p targeted genes and were predominantly enriched in the inflammatory signaling pathway.CONCLUSION: LncRNAs may contribute to the pathogenesis of DPN by regulating inflammation through functioning as ceRNAs of miR-146a-5p.
The functions and molecular mechanism of circRNAs in the development of radiation-induced liver disease (RILD) remain largely unknown. The goal of this study was to explore the expression and potential role of a new circular RNA, named circTUBD1, in irradiated and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated human hepatic stellate cell (HSC) line LX-2 cells. The expression of circTUBD1 was significantly upregulated in irradiated and LPS-stimulated LX-2 cells compared to non-treated LX-2 cells. To explore the functions of circTUBD1, small interfering RNAs targeting circTUBD1 were designed. Silencing circTUBD1 inhibited proliferation, promoted apoptosis of LX-2 cells, and significantly decreased the expression level of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α in irradiated and LPS-stimulated LX-2 cells. Mechanistic analysis suggested that circTUBD1 acted as the miR-146a-5p sponge to affect pro-inflammatory cytokine production through regulating expression of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), interleukin receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF6), and phosphorylation of nuclear factor-kappa B (pNF-κB) in irradiated and LPS-stimulated LX-2 cells. To our knowledge, this is the first study to show that circTUBD1 acts as a miR-146a-5p sponge to affect the viability and pro-inflammatory cytokine production of LX-2 cells through the TLR4 pathway, suggesting that circTUBD1 is a potential target for RILD therapy.
The impairment in diabetic wound healing represents a significant clinical problem, with no efficient targeted treatments for these wound disorders. Curcumin is well confirmed to improve diabetic wound healing, however, its low bioavailability and poor solubility severely limit its clinical application. This study aims to provide the pharmacological basis for the use of (2E,6E)-2,6-bis(2-(trifluoromethyl)benzylidene)cyclohexanone (C66). The results showed that topically applied C66 improved cutaneous wound healing in vivo. Further studies showed that C66 treatment increased the level of microRNA-146a (miR-146a) in the wounds in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice, downregulated the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and phosphorylated nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) p65 subunit (p-p65) (both p < 0.05), and suppressed the mRNA expression of inflammation-related cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-8 (IL-8), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). The in vitro data obtained in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) showed that C66 could reverse high glucose (HG)-induced NF-κB activation due to upregulation of miR-146a expression, which matched the in vivo findings. In conclusion, the present study indicates that C66 exerts anti-inflammation activity and accelerates skin wound healing of diabetic mice, probably via increasing miR-146a and inhibiting the NF-κB-mediated inflammation pathway. Therefore, C66 may be a promising alternative for the treatment of diabetic wounds.
Langerhans cells (LCs) and plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) play an important role in the cutaneous immune response to viral infection. Verruca vulgaris (VV) is a chronic benign disease caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection.To investigate the possible roles of LCs, pDCs and toll-like receptor (TLR)7/9 signaling pathways in the pathogenesis of VV, we detected the expression of CD1a, CD2AP, CD123, TLR7/9, IFN regulatory factor 7 (IRF7), and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) in VV lesions.The expression of CD1a, CD2AP, CD123, TLR7/9, IRF7, and IRAK1 in 20 VV lesions was tested by immunohistochemistry. The density and number of stained cells were compared between VV lesions and the perilesional normal skin.The density and number of CD1a-, CD2AP-, CD123-, TLR9-, and IRAK1-positive cells in the papillary layer of VV lesions were significantly higher than those in the perilesional normal skin (P < .05). There were no significant differences in the density and positive rate of CD1a+ cells in the epidermis and of TLR7 and IRF7 cells in the dermis between VV lesions and the perilesional normal skin at the edge (P > .05).In VV, the number of LCs increases only in the dermis, indicating that LC's antigen-presenting function might not be inhibited. The increased number of pDCs in VV lesions suggests that HPV infection may recruit the pDCs to the virus-infected epithelium. We speculate that the TLR7/9 downstream signaling pathway is not fully activated in VV, leading to difficulty of HPV removal and the relapse of HPV-infected lesions.
Sepsis is associated with exacerbated inflammatory response which subsequently results in multiple organ dysfunction. Sepsis accounts for high mortality and morbidity among newborns worldwide. Narciclasine is a plant alkaloid which has shown to possess anti-inflammatory properties. In this study we investigated the effect and mechanism of action of narciclasine in neonatal sepsis rat models. The excessive release of S100A8/A9 or calprotectin in neonatal sepsis could be detrimental as it could exacerbate the inflammatory responses. We found that narciclasine significantly reduced the plasma levels of S100A8/A9 and also suppressed its expression in the liver and lung. The systemic and local bacterial load was also reduced in the narciclasine treated rats. The systemic and local production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in plasma and organs (liver and lungs) was significantly reduced in the narciclasine treated rats. The histopathological studies showed that narciclasine prevents the organ damage associated with sepsis and improved the survival of neonatal rats. Sepsis increased the phosphorylated NF-κβ p65 protein expression in the liver. Narciclasine suppressed the phosphorylation of NF-κβ p65 and the degradation of NF-κβ inhibitory protein alpha. It could also suppress the expression of adaptor proteins of the toll like receptor signaling pathway viz., myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6). These results suggest that narciclasine protects against sepsis in neonatal rats through the inhibition of calprotectin, pro-inflammatory cytokines and suppression of NF-κβ signaling pathway.
BACKGROUND: Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs), resident mesenchymal cells of synovial joints, play an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Dickkopf-1 (DKK-1) has been proposed to be a master regulator of bone remodeling in inflammatory arthritis. Here, potential impairation on the activity of FLSs derived from RA to small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) targeting DKK-1 was investigated.METHODS: siRNAs targeting DKK-1 were transfected into FLSs of patients with RA. Interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, IL-8, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 2, MMP3, MMP9, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, TGF-β2 and monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 levels in the cell culture supernatant were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Invasion assay and H incorporation assay were utilized to investigate the effects of siRNAs targeting DKK-1 on FLSs invasion and cell proliferation, respectively. Western blotting was performed to analyze the expression of nuclear factor (NF)-κB, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)1, extracellular regulated protein kinases (ERK)1, Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and β-catenin in FLSs.RESULTS: DKK-1 targeting siRNAs inhibited the expression of DKK-1 in FLSs (P < 0.01). siRNAs induced a significant reduction of the levels of IL-6, IL-8, MMP2, MMP3 and MMP9 in FLSs compared to the control group (P < 0.05). DKK-1 targeting siRNAs inhibited the proliferation and invasion of FLSs (P < 0.05). Important molecules of pro-inflammatory signaling in FLSs, including IRAK1 and ERK1, were decreased by the inhibition of DKK-1 in FLSs. In contrast, β-catenin, a pivotal downstream molecule of the Wnt signaling pathway was increased.CONCLUSIONS: By inhibiting DKK-1, we were able to inhibit the proliferation, invasion and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion of FLSs derived from RA, which was mediated by the ERK or the IRAK-1 signaling pathway. These data indicate the application of DKK-1 silencing could be a potential therapeutic approach to RA.
INTRODUCTION: Tuberculosis (TBC) is a contagious chronic respiratory disease which despite the known cause, Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), and many decades of successful therapy, remains one of the leading global health problems. Immune responses against Mtb infection involve both of types of immunity, but cellular immunity, in which certain cytokines and Th1 cells play a key role, is crucial. A better understanding of the functions of the cytokine network involved in the state and progression of TBC could identify specific molecular markers for monitoring of disease activity as well as therapy outcomes in TBC patients.METHODOLOGY: We investigated expression of TNF-α, IL-6 and IRAK1 genes using an RT-qPCR technique in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 33 TBC patients and 10 healthy individuals.RESULTS: Comparison between TBC patients and healthy individuals revealed statistically significant differences for all analyzed genes. The levels of expression of TNF-α and IL-6 mRNA were higher, while the level of IRAK1 mRNA was lower in the TBC group compared to controls. Moreover, a strong positive correlation was observed between TNF-α and IL-6 gene expression. When clinical parameters were analyzed, increased levels of TNF-α mRNA were detected in patients with a longer duration of therapy (>2 months) compared to those with a shorter therapy duration (< 2 months), and in patients without anemia.CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the inflammatory genes we examined play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of tuberculosis, and that the expression of the TNF-α gene could be a marker for monitoring the clinical effect of the ant-tuberculosis drugs during therapy.
MECP2 duplication syndrome (MDS; OMIM 300260) is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder caused by nonrecurrent duplications of the Xq28 region involving the gene methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2; OMIM 300005). The core phenotype of affected individuals includes infantile hypotonia, severe intellectual disability, very poor-to-absent speech, progressive spasticity, seizures, and recurrent infections. The condition is 100% penetrant in males, with observed variability in phenotypic expression within and between families. Features of MDS in individuals of African descent are not well known. Here, we describe a male patient from Cameroon, with MDS caused by an inherited 610 kb microduplication of Xq28 encompassing the genes MECP2, IRAK1, L1CAM, and SLC6A8. This report supplements the public data on MDS and contributes by highlighting the phenotype of this condition in affected individuals of African descent.
Human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (HucMSC-Ex) are a promising tool for the repair of acute kidney injury (AKI) caused by cisplatin and ischemia/reperfusion. However, the roles of hucMSC-Ex in sepsis-associated AKI repair and its mechanism are largely unknown. Hence, we constructed a sepsis model through cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), testing the benefits of hucMSC-Ex in the sepsis in terms of survival rate, serum renal markers levels, morphological changes and apoptosis. Immunohistochemistry staining and immunofluorescence assay were used to investigate the role of NF-κB activity in the repair of sepsis-associated AKI with hucMSC-Ex. HK-2 cells were transfected with microRNA-146b (miR-146b) mimics and inhibitors, respectively, and the regulatory effect of miR-146b on NF-κB activity was studied. We found that hucMSC-Ex treatment significantly decreased the serum creatinine (Cr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels, ameliorated the morphological damage and inhibited renal tubular cells apoptosis. More importantly, the survival rate at 72 h was 28% in CLP group and 45% in hucMSC-Ex group, respectively. Treatment with hucMSC-Ex improved survival in mice with sepsis. These effects of hucMSC-Ex were mediated by the inhibition of NF-κB activity and the lessening of pro-inflammatory response. Furthermore, hucMSC-Ex significantly increased miR-146b expression in kidney tissues. Conversely, interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) level, which is the target gene of miR-146b, clearly decreased in hucMSC-Ex group. In brief, this study showed that treatment with hucMSC-Ex decreased IRAK1 expression through the up-regulation of miR-146b level, led to the inhibition of NF-κB activity, and eventually alleviated sepsis-associated AKI and improved survival in mice with sepsis. HucMSC-Ex may be a novel therapeutic agent for the reduction of sepsis-associated AKI.
MECP2 duplication syndrome (MDS) is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by a severe to profound intellectual disability, early onset hypotonia and diverse psycho-motor and behavioural features. To date, fewer than 200 cases have been published. We report the clinical and molecular characterization of a Spanish MDS cohort that included 19 boys and 2 girls. Clinical suspicions were confirmed by array comparative genomic hybridization and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA). Using, a custom in-house MLPA assay, we performed a thorough study of the minimal duplicated region, from which we concluded a complete duplication of both MECP2 and IRAK1 was necessary for a correct MDS diagnosis, as patients with partial MECP2 duplications lacked some typical clinical traits present in other MDS patients. In addition, the duplication location may be related to phenotypic severity. This observation may provide a new approach for genotype-phenotype correlations, and thus more personalized genetic counselling.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are indispensable for defense against pathogens but may also contribute to immunopathology. Activation of DCs upon the sensing of pathogens by Toll-like receptors (TLRs) is largely mediated by pattern recognition receptor/nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling and depends on the appropriate ubiquitination of the respective signaling molecules. However, the ubiquitinating and deubiquitinating enzymes involved and their interactions are only incompletely understood. Here, we reveal that the deubiquitinase OTU domain, ubiquitin aldehyde binding 1 (OTUB1) is upregulated in DCs upon murine Toxoplasma gondii infection and lipopolysaccharide challenge. Stimulation of DCs with the TLR11/12 ligand T. gondii profilin and the TLR4 ligand lipopolysaccharide induced an increase in NF-κB activation in OTUB1-competent cells, resulting in elevated interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-12, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, which was also observed upon the specific stimulation of TLR2, TLR3, TLR7, and TLR9. Mechanistically, OTUB1 promoted NF-κB activity in DCs by K48-linked deubiquitination and stabilization of the E2-conjugating enzyme UBC13, resulting in increased K63-linked ubiquitination of IRAK1 (IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1) and TRAF6 (TNF receptor-associated factor 6). Consequently, DC-specific deletion of OTUB1 impaired the production of cytokines, in particular IL-12, by DCs over the first 2 days of T. gondii infection, resulting in the diminished production of protective interferon-γ (IFN-γ) by natural killer cells, impaired control of parasite replication, and, finally, death from chronic T. encephalitis, all of which could be prevented by low-dose IL-12 treatment in the first 3 days of infection. In contrast, impaired OTUB1-deficient DC activation and cytokine production by OTUB1-deficient DCs protected mice from lipopolysaccharide-induced immunopathology. Collectively, these findings identify OTUB1 as a potent novel regulator of DCs during infectious and inflammatory diseases.
Erratum in    Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2020 Dec 2;2020:3183519.
Viperin is an interferon-inducible protein that responsible for a variety of antiviral responses to different viruses. Our previous study has shown that the ribonuclease UL41 of herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) can degrade the mRNA of viperin to promote HSV-1 replication. However, it is not clear whether other HSV-1 encoded proteins can regulate the function of viperin. Here, one novel viperin associated protein, glycoprotein D (gD), was identified. To verify the interaction between gD and viperin, gD and viperin expression plasmids were firstly co-transfected into COS-7 cells, and fluorescence microscope showed they co-localized at the perinuclear region, then this potential interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays. Moreover, confocal microscopy demonstrated that gD and viperin co-localized at the Golgi body and lipid droplets. Furthermore, dual-luciferase reporter and Co-IP assays showed gD and viperin interaction leaded to the increase of IRF7-mediated IFN-β expression through promoting viperin and IRAK1 interaction and facilitating K63-linked IRAK1 polyubiquitination. Nevertheless, gD inhibited TRAF6-induced NF-κB activity by decreasing the interaction of viperin and TRAF6. In addition, gD restrained viperin-mediated interaction between IRAK1 and TRAF6. Eventually, gD and viperin interaction was corroborated to significantly inhibit the proliferation of HSV-1. Taken together, this study would open up new avenues toward delineating the function and physiological significance of gD and viperin during HSV-1 replication cycle.
PURPOSE: MiR-146a acts as a negative inflammatory mediator in different diseases and has been implicated in osteoarthritis (OA) pathogenesis. In our study, we investigated the association between miR-SNP rs2910164 and OA susceptibility and its role on the expression of miR-146a, inflammatory and catabolic mediators in osteoarthritic chondrocytes.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Genetic association analysis was performed in 1688 knee OA patients and healthy individuals of Greek origin. Genomic DNA was extracted from blood and genotyped for rs2910164 (G > C) using Restriction-Fragment Length Polymorphism (RFLP). Total RNA was extracted from chondrocytes of 18 OA patients and miR-146a, IL-1 Receptor-Associated Kinase 1 (IRAK-1), TNF Receptor-Associated Factor 6 (TRAF-6), A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase with Thrombospondin Motifs 5 (ADAMTS-5), Matrix Metalloproteinase-13 (MMP-13), Interleukin-6 (IL-6), Interleukin-1 Beta (IL-1β) and Tumor Necrosis Factor-Alpha (TNF-α) expression was evaluated using quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR).RESULTS: OA patients carrying rs2910164-GC and CC genotypes did not have an increased risk for OA development compared to GG genotype carriers. MiR-146a expression in OA chondrocytes was significantly lower in patients with rs2910164-GC genotype than in the GG carriers. OA patients carrying the rs2910164-GC genotype in their chondrocytes exhibited increased IRAK-1, TRAF-6, MMP-13, IL-1β and IL-6 expression levels compared with rs2910164-GG carriers.CONCLUSION: We demonstrate, for the first time, that miR-SNP rs2910164 in miR-146a gene is associated with reduced miR-146a and increased inflammatory and catabolic mediators' expression in OA chondrocytes. Our data imply that genetic variations in miRNAs linked to OA pathogenesis may regulate their expression levels, suggesting new therapeutic strategies for patients with cartilage diseases.
Innate immune signaling plays an important role in inflammation, and dysregulation of signaling components within this pathway has been focused as a critical mediator in initiation, progression of inflammatory autoimmune diseases. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are the most upstream pattern recognition receptors in the immune cells, detecting pathogen associated molecular patterns, initiating signal transduction, by which interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) family mediates activating signal from TLRs and interleukin-1 receptor. The family comprises of four members, IRAK1, IRAK2, IRAK-M, IRAK4. The family members have a role in either positive or negative regulation of innate immunity, adaptive immunity and inflammation. Accumulated evidence proves that IRAK performs significantly in the pathogenesis of inflammatory autoimmune disorders. On the one hand, both patients and animal modes reported abnormal expression of the family members. On the other hand, functional study in vivo and in vitro demonstrated that the members are implicated in the development of the diseases. Interestingly, IRAK inhibition has potential therapeutic benefits. In this review, we focus on the family, review the physiological roles in different immune cells, and summarize emerging data for highlighting the importance of them in inflammatory autoimmunity.
Although several genetic associations with scleroderma (SSc) are defined, very little is known on genetic susceptibility to SSc-associated interstitial lung disease (SSc-ILD). A number of common polymorphisms have been associated with SSc-ILD, but most have not been replicated in separate populations. Four SNPs in IRF5, and one in each of STAT4, CD226 and IRAK1, selected as having been previously the most consistently associated with SSc-ILD, were genotyped in 612 SSc patients, of European descent, of whom 394 had ILD. The control population (n = 503) comprised individuals of European descent from the 1000 Genomes Project. After Bonferroni correction, two of the IRF5 SNPs, rs2004640 (OR (95% CI)1.30 (1.10-1.54), pcorr = 0.015) and rs10488631 (OR 1.48 (1.14-1.92), pcorr = 0.022), and the STAT4 SNP rs7574865 (OR 1.43 (1.18-1.73), pcorr = 0.0015) were significantly associated with SSc compared with controls. However, none of the SNPs were significantly different between patients with SSc-ILD and controls. Two SNPs in IRF5, rs10488631 (OR 1.72 (1.24-2.39), pcorr = 0.0098), and rs2004640 (OR 1.39 (1.11-1.75), pcorr = 0.03), showed a significant difference in allele frequency between controls and patients without ILD, as did STAT4 rs7574865 (OR 1.86 (1.45-2.38), pcorr = 6.6 × 10-6). A significant difference between SSc with and without ILD was only observed for STAT4 rs7574865, being less frequent in patients with ILD (OR 0.66 (0.51-0.85), pcorr = 0.0084). In conclusion, IRF5 rs2004640 and rs10488631, and STAT4 rs7574865 were significantly associated with SSc as a whole. Only STAT4 rs7574865 showed a significant difference in allele frequency in SSc-ILD, with the T allele being protective against ILD.Key points• We confirm the associations of the IRF5 SNPs rs2004640 and rs10488631, and the STAT4 SNP rs7574865, with SSc as a whole.• None of the tested SNPs were risk factors for SSc-ILD specifically.• The STAT4 rs7574865 T allele was protective against the development of lung fibrosis in SSc patients.• Further work is required to understand the genetic basis of lung fibrosis in association with scleroderma.
Abnormal neuroinflammation ignited by overproduction of chemokines and cytokines via microglial cells can induce the occurrence and development of neurodegenerative disorders. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of dexamethasone sodium phosphate (Dex-SP) on chemokine and cytokine secretion in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglial cells. LPS markedly enhanced the secretion of pro-inflammatory factors such as regulated on activation, normal T cell expressed and secreted (RANTES), transforming growth factor beta-β1 (TGF-β1) and nitric oxide (NO), but decreased the production of macrophage inflammatory protein-1α (MIP-1α) and interleukin 10 (IL-10) in BV-2 microglial cells. Furthermore, LPS increased BV-2 microglial cell migration. However, Dex-SP treatment had the opposite effect, dampening the secretion of RANTES, TGF-β1, and NO, while increasing the production of MIP-1α and IL-10 and blocking migration of LPS-stimulated BV-2 microglial cells. Furthermore, Dex-SP markedly suppressed the LPS-induced degradation of IRAK-1 and IRAK-4, and blocked the activation in TRAF6, p-TAK1, and p-JNK in BV-2 microglial cells. These results showed that Dex-SP inhibited the neuroinflammatory response and migration in LPS-activated BV-2 microglia by inhibiting the secretion of RANTES, TGF-β1, and NO and increasing the production of MIP-1α and IL-10. The molecular mechanism of Dex-SP may be associated with inhibition of TRAF6/TAK-1/JNK signaling pathways mediated by IRAK-1 and IRAK-4.
IL-1R-associated kinases (IRAK) are important regulators in the TLR/IL-1R pathways, but their function appears inconsistent between Drosophila, bony fishes, and vertebrates. This causes a difficulty to understand the IRAK functions. As a step to reveal the evolution of IRAKs, in this study, we performed comparative and functional analysis of IRAKs by exploiting the amphioxus, a pivotal taxon connecting invertebrates and vertebrates. Sequence and phylogenetic analysis indicated three major IRAK lineages: IRAK1/2/3 is a vertebrate-specific lineage, IRAK4 is an ancient lineage conserved between invertebrate and vertebrates, and Pelle is another ancient lineage that is preserved in protostomes and invertebrate deuterostomes but lost in vertebrate deuterostomes. Pelle is closer neither to IRAK4 nor to IRAK1/2/3, hence suggesting no clear functional analogs to IRAK1/2/3 in nonvertebrates. Functional analysis showed that both amphioxus IRAK4 and Pelle could suppress NF-κB activation induced by MyD88 and TRAF6, which are unlike mammalian and Drosophila IRAKs, but, surprisingly, similar to bony fish IRAK4. Also unlike Drosophila IRAKs, no interaction was detected between amphioxus IRAK4 and Pelle, although both of them were shown capable of binding MyD88. These findings, together with previous reports, show that unlike other signal transducers in the TLR/IL-1R pathways, such as MyD88 and TRAF6, the functions of IRAKs are highly variable during evolution and very specialized in different major animal taxa. Indeed, we suggest that the functional variability of IRAKs might confer plasticity to the signal transduction of the TLR/IL-1R pathways, which in return helps the species to evolve against the pathogens.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) and IRAK-4, as well as transforming growth factor β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), are protein kinases essential for transducing inflammatory signals from interleukin receptors. IRAK family proteins and TAK1 have high sequence identity within the ATP-binding pocket, limiting the development of highly selective IRAK-1/4 or TAK1 inhibitors. Beyond kinase activity, IRAKs and TAK1 act as molecular scaffolds along with other signaling proteins, complicating the interpretation of experiments involving knockin or knockout approaches. In contrast, pharmacological manipulation offers the promise of targeting catalysis-mediated signaling without grossly disrupting the cellular architecture. Recently, we reported the discovery of takinib, a potent and highly selective TAK1 inhibitor that has only marginal activity against IRAK-4. On the basis of the TAK1-takinib complex structure and the structure of IRAK-1/4, here we defined critical contact sites of the takinib scaffold within the nucleotide-binding sites of each respective kinase. Kinase activity testing of takinib analogs against IRAK-4 identified a highly potent IRAK-4 inhibitor (HS-243). In a kinome-wide screen of 468 protein kinases, HS-243 had exquisite selectivity toward both IRAK-1 (IC50 = 24 nm) and IRAK-4 (IC50 = 20 nm), with only minimal TAK1-inhibiting activity (IC50 = 0.5 μm). Using HS-243 and takinib, we evaluated the consequences of cytokine/chemokine responses after selective inhibition of IRAK-1/4 or TAK1 in response to lipopolysaccharide challenge in human rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes. Our results indicate that HS-243 specifically inhibits intracellular IRAKs without TAK1 inhibition and that these kinases have distinct, nonredundant signaling roles.
Neoangiogenesis is critical for tissue repair in response to injury such as myocardial ischemia or dermal wound healing. MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNAs and important regulators of angiogenesis under physiological and pathological disease states. Therefore, identification of microRNAs that may restore impaired angiogenesis in response to tissue injury may provide new targets for therapy. Using a microRNA microarray profiling approach, we identified a human-specific microRNA, miR-4674, that was significantly decreased in patients after myocardial tissue injury and had an endothelial cell (EC)-enriched expression pattern. Functionally, overexpression of miR-4674 markedly attenuated EC proliferation, migration, network tube formation, and spheroid sprouting, whereas blockade of miR-4674 had the opposite effects. Transcriptomic profiling, gene set enrichment analyses, bioinformatics, 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) reporter and microribonucleoprotein immunoprecipitation (miRNP-IP) assays, and small interfering RNA dependency studies revealed that miR-4674 regulates VEGF stimulated-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling and targets interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (Irak1) and BICD cargo adaptor 2 (Bicd2) in ECs. Furthermore, Irak1 and Bicd2 were necessary for miR-4674-driven EC proliferation and migration. Finally, neutralization of miR-4674 increased angiogenesis, Irak1 and Bicd2 expression, and p38 phosphorylation in human skin organoids as a model of tissue injury. Collectively, targeting miR-4674 may provide a novel therapeutic target for tissue repair in pathological disease states associated with impaired angiogenesis.
BACKGROUND: Microglia, the mononuclear immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS), are essential for the maintenance of CNS homeostasis. BAP31, a resident and ubiquitously expressed protein of the endoplasmic reticulum, serves as a sorting factor for its client proteins, mediating the subsequent export, retention, and degradation or survival. Recently, BAP31 has been defined as a regulatory molecule in the CNS, but the function of BAP31 in microglia has yet to be determined. In the present study, we investigated whether BAP31 is involved in the inflammatory response of microglia.METHODS: This study used the BV2 cell line and BAP31 conditional knockdown mice generated via the Cre/LoxP system. A BAP31 knockdown experiment was performed to elucidate the role of BAP31 in the endogenous inflammatory cytokine production by microglial BV2 cells. A mouse model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cognitive impairment was established to evaluate the neuroprotective effect of BAP31 against neuroinflammation-induced memory deficits. Behavioral alterations were assessed with the open field test (OFT), Y maze, and Morris water maze. The activation of microglia in the hippocampus of mice was observed by immunohistochemistry. Western blot, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), immunofluorescence staining, and reverse transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were used to clarify the mechanisms.RESULTS: BAP31 deficiency upregulates LPS-induced proinflammatory cytokines in BV2 cells and mice by upregulating the protein level of IRAK1, which in turn increases the translocation and transcriptional activity of NF-κB p65 and c-Jun, and moreover, knockdown of IRAK1 or use of an IRAK1 inhibitor reverses these functions. In the cognitive impairment animal model, the BAP31 knockdown mice displayed increased severity in memory deficiency accompanied by an increased expression of proinflammatory factors in the hippocampus.CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that BAP31 may modulate inflammatory cytokines and cognitive impairment induced by neuroinflammation through IRAK1, which demonstrates that BAP31 plays an essential role in microglial inflammation and prevention of memory deficits caused by neuroinflammation.
Chromosomal instability (CIN) is one of the characteristics of cancer inherent for tumor initiation and progression, which is defined as a persistent, high rate of gain/loss of whole chromosomes. In the vast majority of human tumors the molecular basis of CIN remains unknown. The development of a conceptually simple colony color sectoring assay that measures yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) loss provided a powerful genetic tool to assess the rate of chromosome mis-segregation and also identified 937 yeast genes involved in this process. Similarly, a human artificial chromosome (HAC)-based assay has been recently developed and applied to quantify chromosome mis-segregation events in human cells. This assay allowed identification of novel human CIN genes in the library of protein kinases. Among them are PINK1, TRIO, IRAK1, PNCK, and TAOK1. The HAC-based assay may be applied to screen siRNA, shRNA and CRISPR-based libraries to identify the complete spectrum of CIN genes. This will reveal new insights into mechanisms of chromosome segregation and may expedite the development of novel therapeutic strategies to target the CIN phenotype in cancer cells.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and IRAK4 are critical signalling mediators and play pivotal roles in the innate immune and inflammatory responses mediated by TLR/IL-1R. In the present study, two IRAK family members, OnIRAK1 and OnIRAK4, were identified in the Nile tilapia Oreochromis niloticus with a conserved N-terminal death domain and a protein kinase domain, similar to those of other fishes and mammals. The gene structures of OnIRAK1 and OnIRAK4 are organized into fifteen exons split by fourteen introns and ten exons split by nine introns. OnIRAK1 and OnIRAK4 were broadly expressed in all of the tissues tested, with the highest expression levels being observed in the blood and the lowest expression levels being observed in the liver. Both genes could be detected from 2 d post-fertilization (dpf) to 8 dpf during embryonic development. Moreover, the expression levels of OnIRAK1 and OnIRAK4 were clearly altered in all five tissues after Streptococcus agalactiae infection in vivo and could be induced by LPS, Poly I: C, S. agalactiae WC1535 and △CPS in Nile tilapia macrophages. The overexpression of OnIRAK1 and OnIRAK4 in 293T cells showed that they were both distributed in the cytoplasm and could significantly increase NF-κB activation. Interestingly, after transfection, OnIRAK1 significantly upregulated OnMyd88-induced NF-κB activation, while OnIRAK4 had no effect on OnMyd88-induced NF-κB activation. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays showed that OnMyd88 did not interact with either OnIRAK1 or OnIRAK4 and that OnIRAK1 did not interact with OnIRAK4. Taken together, these findings suggest that OnIRAK1 and OnIRAK4 could play important roles in TLR/IL-1R signalling pathways and the immune response to pathogen invasion.
OBJECTIVES: Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) are encoded by adjacent X-linked genes and recognized for their role in regulation of inflammation. The present case control study was conducted to detect the genetic association between MECP2 (rs1734791) and IRAK1 (rs1059703) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and the possible association of these SNPs and severity of SLE.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Fifty patients with SLE and 100 healthy controls were included in this study. Systemic Lupus International Collaborating Clinics (SLICC) criteria were used to classify SLE patients and the activity of the disease was assessed by SLEDAI score. Disease severity was assessed by the SLICC damage index (SLICC DI). Genetic association of both SNPs with SLE was assessed by Taq Man allelic discrimination technique.RESULTS: Analyses of MECP2 (rs1734791) SNP genotypes revealed that homozygous TT genotype was significantly higher in the control group than SLE patients (p < 0.001, odds ratio [OR] = 0.120). Frequency of allele (A) was significantly higher in SLE patients, (p < 0.001, OR = 0.334). SLE patients had significantly higher frequency of the homozygous AA and heterozygous AG genotype of IRAK1 (rs1059703) SNP in comparison to healthy controls (p = 0.0029, OR = 4.17 and 6.30 respectively). T+G and T+A of rs1734791 and rs1059703 SNPs are protective haplotypes (OR = 0.47 and 0.3, p = 0.0046 and < 0.012 respectively). No significant association between either SNP and disease activity or severity was found.CONCLUSIONS: There is a possible genetic association between both rs1734791 and rs1059703 SNPs and susceptibility to SLE, while no significant association between either SNP and disease activity or severity was detected.
Although the novel resveratrol derivative RM has therapeutic potential for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, little is currently known regarding the manner whereby RM regulates excessive inflammatory responses. In this study, we initially investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the anti-inflammatory effects induced by RM in Toll-like receptor (TLR)-activated macrophages. Upon stimulation with lipopolysaccharide, we found that RM-treated activated macrophages down-regulated the increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, and IL-12p70), nitric oxide (NO) production, and activating interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) phosphorylation, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling pathways. Interestingly, the TLR negative regulator Toll-interacting protein (Tollip) was selectively enhanced during RM stimulation in time- and dose-dependent manners. In response to knockdown of Tollip expression by RNA interference, RM-treated activated macrophages showed augmented expression of inflammatory mediators (pro-inflammatory cytokines, NO, inducible nitric oxidase, and cyclooxygenase-2, and surface molecules) and restored the expression of MAPK and NF-κB signals inhibited by RM treatment. Taken together, our findings indicate that RM has therapeutic potential for treating TLR-induced inflammatory diseases via the promotion of Tollip expression.
Comment in    Blood. 2020 Jan 16;135(3):155-156.
Antitumor immunity has emerged as a favorable byproduct of radiation therapy (RT), whereby tumor-associated antigens released from irradiated cells unleash innate and adaptive attacks on tumors located both within and outside the radiation field. RT-induced immune responses further provide actionable targets for overcoming tumor resistance to RT (R-RT); immunotherapy (IT) with checkpoint inhibitors or Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists can markedly improve, if not synergize with, RT in preclinical models, and several of these drugs are currently investigated as radiosensitizers in patients. In an unbiased chemical-genetic screen in a zebrafish model of tumor R-RT, we unexpectedly found that Interleukin 1 Receptor-Associated Kinase 1 (IRAK1), a core effector of TLR-mediated innate immunity, also functions in live fish and human cancer models to counter RT-induced cell death mediated by the PIDDosome complex (PIDD-RAIDD-caspase-2). IRAK1 acting both as a driver of intrinsic tumor R-RT and as an effector of RT-induced antitumor immunity would, at first glance, pose obvious therapeutic conundrums. IRAK1 inhibitors would be expected to sensitize the irradiated tumor to RT but simultaneously thwart RT-induced antitumor immunity as initiated by stromal dendritic cells. Conversely, TLR agonist-based immunotherapy would be expected to intensify RT-induced antitumor immunity but at the expense of fueling IRAK1-mediated cell survival in the irradiated tumor. We discuss how IRAK1's differential reliance on catalytic activity in the radiation vs. TLR responses might help overcome these hurdles, as well as the crucial importance of developing IRAK1 inhibitors that lack activity against IRAK4, the kinase activity of which is essential for IRAK1 activation in both pathways.
Interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase (IRAK1) is one of the crucial signal transduction mediators in TLR/IL-1R signaling pathways in host immune system. To investigate about it in rohu (Labeo rohita), one of the economically important freshwater fish species in the Indian subcontinent, we cloned, characterized and analyzed its expression following bacterial infection and pathogens associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) stimulation. The full-length cDNA of rohu IRAK1 (LrIRAK1) consisted of 2765 nucleotide (nt) having an ORF of 2115 nt encoding a polypeptide of 704 amino acids (aa) with a molecular mass of 70.4 kDa. Structurally, LrIRAK1 consisted of twenty-nine helix, twelve strands and forty one coils making one N-terminal death domain (19-94 aa) and a central serine threonine kinase catalytic domain (or kinase domain) (188-489aa). In addition to these two prominent domains, LrIRAK1 also contained highly conserved amino acids viz., lysine 215 and aspartic acid 314 and threonine 185, 361 which were reported to be important for kinase and phosphorylation activity respectively in other animals. Similar to higher vertebrates, LrIRAK1 also consisted of CDK1 (cyclin-dependent kinase1) at 338-352 aa; NEK2 (NIMA-related kinase 2) at 47-61 aa; NEK6 (NIMA-related kinase 6) at 581-595 aa and AMPK (AMP- activated protein kinase) motif at 518-538 aa. Phylogenetically, LrIRAK1 is closely related to cave fish, common carp exhibiting high similarity (~95%) and identity (~90%). In the uninfected fish, the LrIRAK1 expression was highest in liver (~11.5 fold) and lowest in blood. In response to Aeromonas hydrophila, Edwardsiella tarda and Bacillus subtilis infection and various TLR and NLR-ligands stimulation, the expression of LrIRAK1 was markedly enhanced at various time points in almost all the tested tissues. These results together suggest the key role of LrIRAK1 in pattern recognition receptors (PRRs)-mediated host defense against pathogenic insults.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease, and Jieduquyuziyin prescription (JP) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula that has been testified to be effective for SLE treatment as an approved hospital prescription for many years in China. However, its mechanism of action in the treatment of this disease is largely unknown. The purpose of this study was to determine whether JP-treated rat serum can inhibit the activation of peritoneal macrophages in MRL/lpr mice by downregulating the IRAK1 signaling pathway, thereby achieving the effect of improving SLE. The JP-treated rat serum was prepared, and the peritoneal macrophages of MRL/lpr lupus mice were isolated in vitro, and the effect of JP on cell viability was detected by the CCK8 method. After LPS induction and shRNA lentiviral transfection, the effect of JP on the expression of IRAK1 in cells was detected by immunofluorescence staining. The content of TNF-α and IL-6 in the cell supernatant was determined by ELISA. The expression of IRAK1, NF-κB, TNF-α, and IL-6 mRNA was detected by RT-PCR, and the expression levels of IRAK1, p-IRAK1, TRAF6, IKBα, p-IKBα, IKK + IKK, NF-κB, and p-NF-κB proteins was detected by western blot method. We investigated the role of JP in peritoneal macrophages of the MRL/lpr mouse and identified the possible mechanisms of action. The results showed that JP could reduce the phosphorylation of IRAK1 and its downstream proteins induced by LPS and inhibit the expression of inflammatory cytokines, including TNF-α and IL-6. In addition, after the transfection of cells with shRNA lentiviral, the results of JP tended to be consistent. In conclusion, JP may inhibit the activation of peritoneal macrophages in MRL/lpr mice by downregulating the IRAK1-NF-κB signaling pathway, and IRAK1 may be a potential target for JP treatment of SLE.
Random X chromosome (ChrX) inactivation and consequent cellular mosaicism for the active ChrXs in white blood cells (WBCs) is unique to females and may contribute to sex-biased modulation of the innate immune response. Polymorphic differences between the two parental ChrXs may result in ChrX skewing of circulating WBCs (ChrX inactivation-ratio (XCI) > 3) driven by differences in stem cell selection and activity in the bone marrow or WBC trafficking at the periphery. Independent of the mechanism, ChrX skewing may result in genotype-phenotype discrepancies. This study aimed to develop an allele-specific assay and test its applicability in clinical samples to determine the "direction" of ChrX skewing in the variant IRAK1 haplotype, a common X-linked polymorphism with major clinical impacts. Because alternative splice variants of IRAK1 are also produced in the region surrounding the critical single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP, rs1059703), we also tested the abundance of alternative splice variant IRAK1 transcripts. The expression of splice variants IRAK1-B and IRAK1-C was about 30 and 50% of the full-length (IRAK1-A) in WBCs from healthy subjects (n = 53). IRAK1-A, B, and C showed about 30% lower expression level in males (n = 25) than females (n = 28). By contrast, the expression levels of IRAK1-A, B, and C were not affected by the variant IRAK1 haplotype in either sex. Allele-specific primers generated WT and variant-IRAK1 amplicons with high selectivity, and on average produced about half the expression levels of each transcript in heterozygous IRAK1-mosaic females. Because injury was shown to induce de novo ChrX skewing of WBCs, we tested the directional XCI ratio changes in WBC in a sample of trauma patients heterozygous for the variant IRAK1 haplotype (n = 18). Using the allele-specific assay in combination with the DNA methylation status at the polymorphic HUMARA locus, we found that at admission, about 60% the patients presented XCI ratios skewed toward WBCs with active ChrXs carrying the variant-IRAK1 similar to healthy controls. De novo, trauma-induced XCI ratio changes showed increased extravasation of the more abundant mosaic WBC subset without reversal in the direction of ChrX skewing during the injury course.
BACKGROUND: Obesity-induced chronic inflammation is a key component in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance and type-2 diabetes Objective: This study aimed to evaluate the effect of swimming exercise on pancreatic expression levels of inflammatory cytokines, miR-146a and NF-кB in type-2 diabetic male rats.METHODS: Twenty- eight male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: control (Con), exercise, diabetes and diabetic exercise (n = 7). Diabetes induction performed by the combination of high-fat diet (HFD, 4 weeks) and streptozotocin (35 mg/kg. ip). After induction of diabetes, the rats swam in the exercise groups for 12 weeks. Then, blood and tissue samples were collected.RESULTS: Our results indicated a significant increase in expression levels of miR-146, NF-κB and inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β) while a significant decrease in pancreatic expression levels of TRAF6 and IRAK1 in diabetic group as compared to the control group. In contrast, swimming exercise resulted in a significant decrease in expression levels of miR-146a, NF-кB and inflammatory cytokines and a significant increase in expression levels of TRAF6 and IRAK1 in the exercise-diabetic group compared to the diabetic group.CONCLUSION: Our results indicated a significant increase in expression levels of miR-146, NF-κB and inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β) while a significant decrease in pancreatic expression levels of TRAF6 and IRAK1 in diabetic group as compared to the control group. In contrast, swimming exercise resulted in a significant decrease in expression levels of miR-146a, NF-кB and inflammatory cytokines and a significant increase in expression levels of TRAF6 and IRAK1 in the exercise-diabetic group compared to the diabetic group.
Pellino-1 is a ubiquitin (Ub) E3 ligase that plays a role in M1, but not M2a polarization of macrophages. However, it is unknown whether Pellino-1 regulates IL-10-mediated M2c polarization of macrophages. Here, we found that Pellino-1 attenuated tumor growth by inhibiting M2c polarization of macrophages. Upon IL-10 stimulation, Pellino-1-deificient bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) showed higher expression of M2c markers, but not M2a, and M2b markers than wild-type (WT) BMDMs, indicating that Pellino-1 inhibits M2c polarization of macrophages. Pellino-1-deficient BMDMs exhibited a defect in mitochondria respiration, but enhancement of glycolysis during M2c polarization. During M2c polarization of macrophages, Pellino-1 increased STAT1 phosphorylation via K63-linked ubiquitination of IL-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). Furthermore, Lysm-CrePellino-1 fl/fl mice showed enhancement of tumor growth via regulating M2c polarization of tumor-associated macrophages. These results demonstrate that Pellino-1 inhibits IL-10-induced M2c macrophage polarization via K63-linked ubiquitination of IRAK1 and activation of STAT1, thereby inhibiting tumor growth in vivo.
Interferon regulatory factor (IRF)-5 is known to be involved in M1 macrophage polarization, however, changes in the adipose expression of IRF5 in obesity and their relationship with the local expression of proinflammatory cytokines/chemokines are unknown. Therefore, IRF5 gene expression was determined in the subcutaneous adipose tissue samples from 53 non-diabetic individuals (6 lean, 18 overweight, and 29 obese), using real-time RT-PCR. IRF5 protein expression was also assessed using immunohistochemistry and/or confocal microscopy. Adipose gene expression of signature immune metabolic markers was also determined and compared with adipose IRF5 gene expression. Systemic levels of C-reactive protein and adiponectin were measured by ELISA. The data show that adipose IRF5 gene (P = 0.008) and protein (P = 0.004) expression was upregulated in obese compared with lean individuals. IRF5 expression changes correlated positively with body mass index (BMI; r = 0.37/P = 0.008) and body fat percentage (r = 0.51/P = 0.0004). In obese, IRF5 changes associated positively with HbA1c (r = 0.41/P = 0.02). A good agreement was found between gene and protein expression of IRF5 in obese subjects (r = 0.65/P = 0.001). IRF5 gene expression associated positively with adipose inflammatory signatures including local expression of TNF-α, IL-6, CXCL8, CCL-2/5, IL-1β, IL-18, CXCL-9/10, CCL7, CCR-1/2/5, TLR-2/7/8/9, IRF3, MyD88, IRAK-1, and inflammatory macrophage markers (P < 0.05). Interestingly, IRF5 gene expression correlated positively with CRP (r = 0.37, P = 0.03) and negatively with adiponectin levels (r = -0.43, P = 0.009). In conclusion, elevated adipose IRF5 expression in obesity concurs with the typical inflammatory signatures, locally and systemically. Hence, the IRF5 upregulation may represent a novel adipose tissue marker for metabolic inflammation.
The involvement of neutrophils in the host response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection is not as well recognized as the involvement of macrophages and dendritic cells. Thus, this study gives more insight on the impact of the virulent Mtb H37Rv strain on proapoptotic and proinflammatory functions of human neutrophils in vitro. We found that neutrophils are not able to kill Mtb during the infection process, probably due to the lack of reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide production in response to bacteria. However, infected neutrophils effectively released cytokines, chemoattractant interleukin (IL) 8 and proinflammatory IL-1β. Moreover, Mtb enhanced the early apoptosis of neutrophils at 2 h postinfection. Additionally, this proapoptotic and proinflammatory response of neutrophils to Mtb infection occurred in an IRAK1- and IRAK4-independent manner. We also found that Mtb did not affect the surface expression of Toll-like receptor (TLR) 2 and slightly enhanced the surface expression of TLR4, but did not influence mRNA levels of both TLRs during the infection process. In conclusion, we show that the inhibition of signaling proteins activated by MyD88-dependent pathway did not participate in the biological activity of neutrophils against Mtb.
Microglia are critical in neuroinflammation. M1/M2 polarization transitions of microglial phenotypes determine the states of neuroinflammation and are regulated by multiple pathways, including miRNAs and other epigenetic regulations. This study investigated the polarization transitions of microglia induced by high glucose and glucose fluctuations, and the role of miR-146a in regulating M1/M2 polarization transitions of microglia. BV-2 cells were cultured with 25 mmol/L glucose, 75 mmol/L glucose, and 25 mmol/L-75 mmol/L glucose fluctuation for 48 h. BV-2 cells overexpressing miR-146a were generated using a lentiviral vector. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was used to measure mRNA expression of miR-146a, CD11b, iNOS, Arg-1, IRAK1, TRAF6, and NF-κB. Immunofluorescence was used to measure CD11b expression. Western blot was used to measure protein expression of CD11b, iNOS, and Arg-1. Compared with those in the 25 mmol/L glucose control group, expression of CD11b, iNOS, TNF-α, and IL-6 in the 75 mmol/L glucose or glucose fluctuation groups of cultured BV-2 cells were significantly increased, while Arg-1 and IL-10 was significantly decreased. These effects were reversed by overexpression of miR-146a. Furthermore, expression of IRAK1, TRAF6, and NF-κB was significantly increased in the high glucose and glucose fluctuation groups; this was reduced after miR-146a overexpression. In sum, high glucose and glucose fluctuations induced polarization transitions from M1 to M2 phenotype in BV-2 cells. Overexpression of miR-146a might protect BV-2 cells from high glucose and glucose fluctuation associated with M1/M2 polarization transitions by downregulating the expression of IRAK1, TRAF6, and NF-κB.
We have developed a black shell colored selected line observed to have higher survival ability. In this study, to understand its immune capacity, total carotenoid content (TCC) of the black shell colored line (BG) and the control group (CG) were compared. Survival and retention rates, immunity and antioxidant capacity of BG were compared relative to CG at different times after grafting operation. The results showed that BG had significantly larger TCC than CG (P < 0.05). BG had significantly higher survival and retention rates than CG on days 7, 30 and 360 after grafting (P < 0.05). On days 360, BG had significantly larger pearl thickness than CG (P < 0.05). BG exhibited increased ACP, AKP, SOD, CAT, TAOC and LZ activity than the CG on 0 h, 12 h, 1 d, 3 d, 5 d, 7 d and 30 d after grafting. BG had higher expression levels of Fascin, SOD, CDK-7, CDAP-1, IRAK-1, α2m, GST-1, TRAF-3 and Caspase-2 than CG. The results suggested that BG had higher immune competence and pearl production performances, which is promising to improve pearl quality and production.
The antimicrobial peptide LL-37 neutralizes the biological activity of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), while it upregulates the expression of several immune-related genes. We investigated the effect of LL-37 on gene regulation of human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs), stimulated with or without Porphyromonas gingivalis-derived LPS, a ligand for Toll-like receptor (TLR). LL-37 was non-toxic to HGFs up to a concentration of 10 μg/ml. P. gingivalis LPS upregulated the expression of IL8, CXCL10, and CCL2, whereas LL-37 reduced this upregulation. In absence of LPS, LL-37 itself upregulated the expression of IL8 and CCL2. LL-37 increased the expression of P2X7, which was constitutively expressed in HGFs. The P2X7 antagonist A-438079 suppressed the cytotoxicity and upregulatory effect of LL-37 on chemokine response, but not its downregulatory effect on P. gingivalis LPS-induced chemokine response. Whether LL-37 alters the expression of 29 genes that encode TLR-associated proteins, including TLRs, co-receptors, signaling molecules, and negative regulators, in HGFs, under stimulation with LPS, was examined. Among TLRs, P. gingivalis LPS upregulated the level of TLR4, whereas LL-37 reduced it. In co-receptors, LL-37 downregulated the level of CD14. Among signaling molecules, LL-37 augmented the LPS-upregulated expression of IRAK1. Similar effects were observed in the specific negative regulators TNFAIP3, RNF216, TOLLIP, and SIGIRR. Our results suggest that LL-37 exerts cytotoxicity and upregulation of chemokine response via the P2X7 receptor, while it induces downregulation of P. gingivalis LPS-induced chemokine response through alteration in the expression of 7 specific TLR-associated genes: downregulation of TLR4 and CD14 and upregulation of IRAK1, TNFAIP3, RNF216, TOLLIP, and SIGIRR.
BACKGROUND/AIM: The incidence of thyroid cancer has increased predominantly due to an increase in papillary thyroid cancer (PTC). Alteration of toll-like receptor function has been reported to play a crucial role in carcinogenesis. The aim of the present study was to investigate predisposition to PTC associated with genetic markers of toll-like receptor and interleukin-1 receptor pathways involving nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B-cells (NF-ĸB) stimulation. Specifically, the study focused on the following genes: interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1, rs3027898), NF-ĸB inhibitor alpha (NFKBIA, rs696), NF-ĸB subunit 1 (NFKB1, rs28362491), and microRNA-146a (miR-146a, rs2910164).PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-eight unrelated patients with papillary cancer restricted to the thyroid gland and 93 healthy volunteers were enrolled in the study.RESULTS: A strong statistically significant difference was observed between patients with PTC and controls for IRAK1 rs3027898 variant. When the statistical analysis was replicated taking into account patient's sex, the rs3027898 A allele was revealed to be the risky variant in males.CONCLUSION: Additional studies in larger groups of patients of various origins are needed to validate these preliminary findings.
Activation of endothelial cells is the first step of atherosclerosis. The current authors have previously reported that exosomes from mature dendritic cells (mDC‑exo) participate in endothelial inflammation and atherosclerosis through membrane tumor necrosis factor‑α mediated the nuclear factor (NF)‑κB signaling pathway. However, whether mDC‑exo shuttled microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) play a role in endothelial inflammation remains unknown. In this study, mDC‑exo were co‑cultured with human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and the expression of adhesion molecules, such as vascular cell adhesion molecule‑1, intercellular adhesion molecule‑1 and E‑Selectin was investigated. Then the expression of miRNAs in DC‑exo was explored and the role of miR‑146a in endothelial inflammation was investigated. mDC‑exos were first demonstrated to increase endothelial expression of adhesion molecules through a quick activation of the NF‑κB signaling pathway. Then it was demonstrated that HUVECs resistant to a second stimulation after the first stimulation by mDC‑exo. A set of miRNAs were targeted and their expression in HUVECs stimulated with mDC‑exo was measured. Finally, it was confirmed that mDC‑exo shuttles miR‑146a into HUVECs and the shuttled miR‑146a contributes to protect HUVECs from a second stimulation through inhibiting interleukin‑1 receptor‑associated kinase. These data suggest a negative feedback loop of inflammation regulation by DC‑exo.
In the present study, we examined the function of microRNA (miR)‑146a‑5p in patients with refractory Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia. In brief, the expression of miR‑146a‑5p was reduced in patients with refractory Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia. Downregulation of miR‑146a‑5p reduced inflammation in an in vitro model of refractory Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia, whilst overexpression of miR‑146a‑5p promoted inflammation. Downregulation of miR‑146a‑5p induced the protein expression of ATP‑binding cassette subfamily G member 1 (ABCG1) and interleukin 1 receptor‑associated kinase 1 (IRAK‑1), while suppressed expression was observed of the aforementioned proteins following overexpression of miR‑146a‑5p in an in vitro model of refractory Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia. The administration of small interfering RNA against RXR or IRAK‑1 attenuated the effects of miR‑146a‑5p on inflammation in an in vitro model of refractory Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia. Collectively, these results suggested that miR‑146a‑5p reduced ABCG1 expression in refractory Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia via downregulation of IRAK‑1.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease with numerous involved factors. miR-146a and miR-146b (miR-146a/b) are anti-inflammatory miRNAs that are increased in psoriatic skin. SERPINB2 has been shown to be upregulated in the inflammation and infections. Here we aimed to study the relationship between miR-146a/b and SERPINB2 and to delineate the role of SERPINB2 in association of plaque psoriasis. We report increased SERPINB2 expression in the skin of psoriasis patients, which was in a positive relationship with psoriasis severity and in a negative relationship with miR-146a/b in psoriatic lesions. In cultured keratinocytes, both cellular and secreted SERPINB2 levels were strongly induced in response to IFN-γ and TNF-α. Interestingly, SERPINB2 mRNA was downregulated by IL-17A and the combination of TNF-α and IL-17A at time points when miR-146a was increased. The predicted binding site for miR-146a/b in 3' untranslated region of SERPINB2 revealed no activity in luciferase assay, while siRNA silencing of miR-146a/b direct targets IRAK1 and CARD10 resulted in reduced expression of SERPINB2, suggesting that miR-146a/b indirectly control SERPINB2 expression in the skin. The siRNA silencing of SERPINB2 increased the expression of IL-8, CXCL5 and CCL5 and migration of neutrophils revealing its anti-inflammatory role in keratinocytes. Our data together suggest that SERPINB2 and miR-146a/b are part of disease-related network of molecules that are coordinately regulated and act in controlling the inflammatory responses in psoriatic skin.
Thymosin β4 (Tβ4), a G-actin-sequestering secreted peptide, improves neurovascular remodeling and central nervous system plasticity, which leads to neurological recovery in many neurological diseases. Inflammatory response adjustment and tissue inflammation consequences from neurological injury are vital for neurological recovery. The innate or nonspecific immune system is made of different components. The Toll-like receptor pro-inflammatory signaling pathway, which is one of these components, regulates tissue injury. The main component of the Toll-like/IL-1 receptor signaling pathway, which is known as IRAK1, can be regulated by miR-146a and regulates NF-κB expression. Due to the significant role of Tβ4 in oligodendrocytes, neurons, and microglial cells in neurological recovery, it is suggested that Tβ4 regulates the Toll-like receptor (TLR) pro-inflammatory signaling pathway by upregulating miR-146a in neurological disorders. However, further investigations on the role of Tβ4 in regulating the expression of miR146a and TLR signaling pathway in the immune response adjustment in neurological disorders provides an insight into mechanisms of action and the possibility of Tβ4 therapeutic effect enhancement.
Atherosclerosis is exacerbated by periodontal pathogens, which induce vascular inflammation after entering the bloodstream. Among oral indigenous bacteria, Streptococcus sanguinis and S. anginosus are related to systemic disorders, such as infective endocarditis and abscess, and are sometimes detected in human atherosclerotic plaques or blood. Thus, these oral streptococci may contribute to the progression of atherosclerosis. To test this hypothesis, apolipoprotein E-deficient spontaneously hyperlipidemic mice were intraorally challenged with S. sanguinis or S. anginosus. Atherosclerotic plaque formation increased significantly in the S. sanguinis-challenged group compared with the carboxymethylcellulose-treated control group. Expression levels of mRNAs of proinflammatory cytokines in the aorta and levels of atherosclerosis-related mediators in blood increased upon S. sanguinis challenge. Adaptor molecule TNF receptor-associated factor 6 was also enhanced in the aorta when mice were challenged with S. sanguinis. Furthermore, challenge with S. anginosus induced systemic inflammation, but inflammation-related mRNA expression levels in the aorta only increased slightly and were accompanied by minimal expansion of the lesion area. By contrast, with the exception of IL-1α, the expression levels of inflammation-related genes did not change in gingival tissues of both bacteria- and sham-challenged groups. These results reveal that S. sanguinis causes aortic inflammation that leads to accelerated progression of atherosclerosis.
MicroRNA (miR)-146a levels are reduced in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE); however, its function is not well understood. The present study investigated the role of miR-146a in the regulation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation in THP-1 cells. A miR-146a mimic and an inhibitor were used to overexpress and downregulate miR-146a expression, respectively. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and western blot analyses were performed to evaluate interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) expression, and western blot analysis was applied to assess nuclear factor-κB activation by analyzing p65 subunit levels in the nucleus. To investigate the effects of miR-146a on LPS-induced inflammation, IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) levels were also measured using ELISA. The results of the present study revealed thatmiR-146a overexpression significantly reduced IRAK1 expression, reduced p65 levels in the nucleus and reduced IL-6 and TNF-α levels in the supernatant of the cell culture medium of THP-1 cells following LPS treatment. Luciferase assays confirmed IRAK1 to be a direct target of miR-146a in THP-1 cells. In conclusion, miR-146a may regulate IRAK1 expression and inhibit the activation of inflammatory signals and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The present study revealed, at least in part, the mechanisms by which miR-146a regulate the inflammatory response in SLE.
One of the hallmarks of cancer is chromosome instability (CIN), which leads to aneuploidy, translocations, and other chromosome aberrations. However, in the vast majority of human tumors the molecular basis of CIN remains unknown, partly because not all genes controlling chromosome transmission have yet been identified. To address this question, we developed an experimental high-throughput imaging (HTI) siRNA assay that allows the identification of novel CIN genes. Our method uses a human artificial chromosome (HAC) expressing the GFP transgene. When this assay was applied to screen an siRNA library of protein kinases, we identified PINK1, TRIO, IRAK1, PNCK, and TAOK1 as potential novel genes whose knockdown induces various mitotic abnormalities and results in chromosome loss. The HAC-based assay can be applied for screening different siRNA libraries (cell cycle regulation, DNA damage response, epigenetics, and transcription factors) to identify additional genes involved in CIN. Identification of the complete spectrum of CIN genes will reveal new insights into mechanisms of chromosome segregation and may expedite the development of novel therapeutic strategies to target the CIN phenotype in cancer cells.
Glycyrrhetinic acid (GA), the main bioactive substances of glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch, has been reported to exhibit hepatoprotective and anti-inflammatory properties. However, the effects and underlying mechanisms of GA in liver ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury remain elusive. In this study, mice were pretreated with GA (100 mg/kg) three times a day by gavage prior to I/R injury, and then hepatic histopathological damages, biochemical parameters and inflammatory molecules were evaluated. We found that mice performed with liver I/R showed a significantly increase in plasma aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), liver cell apoptosis and infiltration of neutrophils compared with the control group. GA pretreatment notably improved liver function, histopathology of liver tissues, and lowered liver cell apoptosis and infiltration of neutrophils. Besides, further analysis indicated that GA pretreatment reduced I/R-induced expression of extracellular HMGB1, inhibited activation of TLR4 and following phosphorylation of IRAK1, ERK, P38 and NF-κB, and attenuated TNF-α and IL-1β production. These data suggested that GA protected against liver I/R injury through a HMGB1-TLR4 signaling pathway and it might be a promising drug for future clinical use in liver transplantation.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the effect of micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA)-146a on kidney injury in mice with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and to investigate its possible mechanism.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 45 female MRL/lpr mice were randomly divided into control group, miR-146a mimic group and miR-146a inhibitor group. Urine protein level was measured every 2 weeks. Meanwhile, the levels of serum anti-dsdeoxyribonucleic acid (anti-dsDNA), anti-ssDNA, antinuclear antibody (ANA) and anti-chromatin were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). At 2 weeks after drug treatment, the effects of miR-146a mimic and inhibitor on kidney tissues of MRL/lpr mice were detected and analyzed by gene chip and gene set enrichment analysis, respectively. The mice were executed at the age of 24 weeks, and the blood samples were collected. Subsequently, the level of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) was measured using the BUN analyzer. After that, kidney tissues were taken, and the effect of drug treatment on the morphology of kidney tissues was detected via hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining. Moreover, the effects of drug treatment on the mRNA levels of inflammatory factors and the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway in kidney tissues were detected via quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting, respectively.RESULTS: MiR-146a mimic significantly reduced urine protein in a time-dependent manner, which also significantly reduced BUN level at 24 weeks. The results of HE staining showed that both glomerular injury and renal vascular injury in miR-146a mimic group were significantly alleviated. In miR-146a mimic group, serum autoantibodies of anti-dsDNA, anti-ssDNA, anti-chromatin and ANA decreased significantly. However, the survival time of mice was significantly prolonged. High-throughput gene expression chip technique elucidated that in miR-146a mimic group, the expression of positive regulatory gene of NF-κB showed a decreasing trend. However, the expression of negative regulatory gene of NF-κB showed an increasing trend. MiR-146a mimic remarkably down-regulated the expression levels of RELA, IRAK1, interleukin-1B (IL1B) and IL-10 in kidney tissues. Furthermore, the results of Western blotting showed that miR-146a mimic inhibited both the classical and non-classical NF-κB signaling pathways.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-146a reduces SLE-induced kidney injury in MRL/lpr mice through regulating classical and non-classical NF-κB signaling pathways.
Comment in    Ann Transl Med. 2020 Apr;8(7):511.
Chlorpyrifos (CPF) is an environmental pollutant with increasing importance due to its high toxicity to fish and aquatic animals. In the present study, we divided 120 common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) into two groups including control group and CPF group, CPF group was exposed to 14.5 μg/L CPF for 30 d. 17 miRNAs were differentially expressed in CPF group head kidney tissues according to the results of miRNAome analysis. In addition, histopathological examination and electron microscopy proved that CPF exposure could lead to damage of head kidney and obvious apoptosis characteristics. The possible target genes of miRNA were predicted using online target gene prediction websites, miRNAome sequencing, GO and KEGG enrichment. miRNAome results showed that expression of miR-731 and miR-2188-3p in CPF group was 0.48 time and 0.45 time as control group, respectively. qRT-PCR results proved the reality of miRNAome. During CPF exposure, mRNA expression of TLR pathway genes and its downstream genes involved in autophagy and apoptosis pathway including TLR1, TLR2, TLR7, TLR9, MyD88, IRAK1, IRAK4, IRF7, PI3K, AKT, mTOR, Caspase3, Caspase8 and Bax were differentially increased under CPF exposure, along with ATG13 and Bcl2 decreased at the same time. Western blot results indicated that apoptosis related protein Caspase3 and Caspase8 were differentially up-regulated in the CPF group. In summary, CPF exposure could induce apoptosis while inhibited autophagy in head kidney of common carp via the regulation of miR-2188-3p and miR-731 by targeting TLR pathway. These results provide new insights for unveiling the biological effects of CPF and miRNAs in common carp.
Type II innate lymphoid cells (ILC2) play a very important role in the pathogenesis of allergic asthma. This study aims to investigate whether miR-146a inhibition of asthma is related with interleukin (IL)-33 signaling path way in ILC2 and the underlying mechanisms. Asthma mice model was induced by ovalbumin. miRNA146a mimics was administrated to asthma mice or transfected to activated ILC2 purified from asthma mice lung. RT-PCR was used to detect miRNA146a level in lung tissue and ILC2. IL-5 and IL-13 levels in culture supernatant were detected by flow cytometry. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) protein expression levels were detected by western blot. miR-146a directly inhibited ILC2 function and suppressed ILC2 proliferation both in vivo and in vitro. During stimulation of ILC2, miR-146a expression gradually increased with a decrease of cell proliferation. Modulation of ILC2 function by miR-146a may depend on IL-33/interleukin 1 receptor-like 1 (IL1RL1 or ST2) signaling through inhibiting IRAK1 and TRAF6.miR-146a can inhibit IRAK1 and TRAF6, downstream molecules of ST2 signal pathway, thereby negatively regulate IL-33/ST2-activated ILC2 to inhibit asthma. Targeting miR-146 maybe a novel strategy for the treatment of allergic asthma.
Comment in    Blood. 2019 Nov 14;134(20):1685-1686.
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is widely prevalent in pigs, resulting in significant economic losses worldwide. A compelling impact of PRRSV infection is severe pneumonia. In the present study, we found that interleukin-17 (IL-17) was upregulated by PRRSV infection. Subsequently, we demonstrated that PI3K and p38MAPK signaling pathways were essential for PRRSV-induced IL-17 production as addition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and p38MAPK inhibitors dramatically reduced IL-17 production. Furthermore, we show here that deleting the C/EBPβ and CREB binding motif in porcine IL-17 promoter abrogated its activation and that knockdown of C/EBPβ and CREB remarkably impaired PRRSV-induced IL-17 production, suggesting that IL-17 expression was dependent on C/EBPβ and CREB. More specifically, we demonstrate that PRRSV nonstructural protein 11 (nsp11) induced IL-17 production, which was also dependent on PI3K-p38MAPK-C/EBPβ/CREB pathways. We then show that Ser74 and Phe76 amino acids were essential for nsp11 to induce IL-17 production and viral rescue. In addition, IRAK1 was required for nsp11 to activate PI3K and enhance IL-17 expression by interacting with each other. Importantly, we demonstrate that PI3K inhibitor significantly suppressed IL-17 production and lung inflammation caused by HP-PRRSV in vivo, implicating that higher IL-17 level induced by HP-PRRSV might be associated with severe lung inflammation. These findings provide new insights onto the molecular mechanisms of the PRRSV-induced IL-17 production and help us further understand the pathogenesis of PRRSV infection.IMPORTANCE Highly pathogenic porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (HP-PRRSV) associated with severe pneumonia has been one of the most important viral pathogens in pigs. IL-17 is a proinflammatory cytokine that might be associated with the strong inflammation caused by PRRSV. Therefore, we sought to determine whether PRRSV infection affects IL-17 expression, and if so, determine this might partially explain the underlying mechanisms for the strong inflammation in HP-PRRSV-infected pigs, especially in lungs. Here, we show that PRRSV significantly induced IL-17 expression, and we subsequently dissected the molecular mechanisms about how PRRSV regulated IL-17 production. Furthermore, we show that Ser74 and Phe76 in nsp11 were indispensable for IL-17 production and viral replication. Importantly, we demonstrated that PI3K inhibitor impaired IL-17 production and alleviated lung inflammation caused by HP-PRRSV infection. Our findings will help us for a better understanding of PRRSV pathogenesis.
Fluoride is known to affect the inflammatory process and autoregulation of immune responses, but the molecular mechanism by which fluoride causes innate immune injury remain largely unknown. Also, studies on sodium fluoride (NaF)-caused alteration of TLR signaling are still lacking. In the present study, we examined the effects of NaF on the mRNA and protein expression levels of TLR2/MyD88 signaling pathway molecules in the mouse spleen by using the methods of qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Consequently, we elucidated the mechanism underlying the effects of NaF on innate immunity. Two hundred and forty ICR mice were randomly divided into 4 groups with intragastric administration of distilled water in the control group and 12, 24, 48 mg/kg of NaF treatment in the experiment groups for 42 days. The findings revealed that NaF impaired splenic innate immunity in mice via inactivation of TLR2/MyD88 signaling pathway. NaF-inactivated TLR2/MyD88 signaling pathway was identified by prominently downregulated mRNA and protein expression levels of TLR2/MyD88, IRAK4, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1, MKK4/MKK7 and c-Jun, which ultimately altered the expression levels of IL-1β, IL-4, IL-6 and IL-8 to attenuate innate immunity.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Borna disease virus 1 (BoDV-1) is a negative single-stranded RNA virus that is highly neurotropic. BoDV-1 infection can damage the central nervous system and cause inflammation. To survive in host cells, BoDV-1 must evade the host innate immune response. A previous study showed that miR-146a expression increased in neonatal rats infected with BoDV-1. miR-146a is a microRNA suggested to negatively regulate innate immune and inflammatory responses and antiviral pathways. Many groups have reported that its overexpression facilitates viral replication. However, it is unclear whether miR-146a is involved in escape from the host immune response during BoDV-1 infection.METHODS: In this study, BoDV-1 was used to infect neonatal rats within 24 h of birth intracranially, as well as to infect human microglial cells (HMC3). miR-146a expression was analyzed by RT-qPCR. The TargetScanHuman database was used to find the target genes of miR-146a. A search of the binding sites of miR-146a and its target gene's 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR) was also performed using RNAhybrid software. The binding sites of miR-146a and the target gene's 3'UTR were detected by dual luciferase reporter assays. Overexpression and suppression studies of miR-146a were performed to determine its effect on BoDV-1 replication. The relative protein expression of members of the IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB signaling pathway was also evaluated by western blotting in HMC3.RESULTS: After BoDV-1 infection of neurons in vivo and of HMC3 cells, miR-146a expression was significantly upregulated. miR-146a overexpression in HMC3 cells promoted viral replication, while its inhibition inhibited it. Through the TargetScanHuman database, we identified the target genes of anti-inflammatory miR-146a: IRAK1 and TRAF6. We also found that BoDV-1 could inhibit IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression in HMC3 cells. Moreover, we showed that the inhibition of IRAK1 and TRAF6 also led to decreases in the expression of P65 and phosphorylated P65 in the downstream NF-κB pathway. Subsequently, we confirmed the interaction of miR-146a with IRAK1 and TRAF6 by luciferase assay.CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that miR-146a inhibits the IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB signaling pathway to facilitate BoDV-1 survival in host cells.
The treatment and management of COPD by inhalation to the lungs has emerged as an attractive alternative route to oral dosing due to higher concentrations of the drug being administered to site of action. In this study, Nanocomposite Microparticles (NCMPs) of microRNA (miR-146a) containing PGA-co-PDL nanoparticles (NPs) for dry powder inhalation were formulated using l-leucine and mannitol. The spray-drying (Buchi B290) process was optimised and used to incorporate NPs into NCMPs using mix of l-leucine and mannitol excipients in different ratios (F1; 100:0% w/w, F2; 75:25% w/w, F3; 50:50% w/w, F4; 25:75% w/w, F5; 0:100% w/w) to investigate yield %, moisture content, aerosolisation performance and miR-146a biological activity. The optimum condition was performed at feed rate 0.5 ml/min, aspirator rate 28 m3/h, atomizing air flow rate 480 L/h, and inlet drying temperature 70 °C which produced highest yield percentage and closest recovered NPs size to original prior spray-drying. The optimum formulation (F4) had a high yield (86.0 ± 15.01%), recovered NPs size after spray-drying 409.7 ± 10.05 nm (initial NPs size 244.8 ± 4.40 nm) and low moisture content (2.02 ± 0.03%). The aerosolisation performance showed high Fine Particle Fraction (FPF) 51.33 ± 2.9%, Emitted Dose (ED) of 81.81 ± 3.0%, and the mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) was ≤5 µm suggesting a deposition in the respirable region of the lungs. The biological activity of miR-146a was preserved after spray-drying process and miR-146a loaded NCMPs produced target genes IRAK1 and TRAF6 silencing. These results indicate the optimal process parameters for the preparation of NCMPs of miR-146a-containing PGA-co-PDL NPs suitable for inhalation in the treatment and management of COPD.
Common X-linked genetic polymorphisms are expected to alter cellular responses affecting males and females differently through sex-linked inheritance pattern as well as X chromosome (ChrX) mosaicism and associated ChrX skewing, which is unique to females. We tested this hypothesis in ex vivo lipopolysaccharide and phorbol ester-stimulated polymorphonuclear granulocytes (PMNs) and monocytes from healthy volunteers (n = 51). Observations were analyzed after stratification by sex alone or the presence of variant IRAK1 haplotype a common X-linked polymorphism with previously demonstrated major clinical impacts. Upon cell activation, CD11b, CD45, CD66b, CD63, and CD14 expression was markedly and similarly elevated in healthy males and females. By contrast, PMN and monocyte activation measured by CD11b, CD66b, and CD63 was increased in variant-IRAK1 subjects as compared with WT. Stratification by IRAK1 genotype and sex showed similar cell activation effect on variant-IRAK1 subjects and an intermediate degree of cell activation in heterozygous mosaic females. The increased membrane expression of these proteins in variant-IRAK1 subjects was associated with similar or increased intersubject but uniformly decreased intrasubject cell response variabilities as compared with WT. We also tested white blood cell ChrX skewing in the healthy cohort as well as in a sample of female trauma patients (n = 201). ChrX inactivation ratios were similar in IRAK1 WT, variant, and heterozygous healthy subjects. Trauma patients showed a trend of blunted ChrX skewing at admission in homozygous variant-IRAK1 and heterozygous mosaic-IRAK1 female subjects as compared with WT. Trauma-induced de novo ChrX skewing was also depressed in variant-IRAK1 and mosaic-IRAK1 female trauma patients as compared with WT. Our study indicates that augmented PMN and monocyte activation in variant-IRAK1 subjects is accompanied by decreased intrasubject cellular variability and blunted de novo ChrX skewing in response to trauma. A more pronounced cell activation of PMNs and monocytes accompanied by decreased response variabilities in variant-IRAK1 subjects may be a contributing mechanism affecting the course of sepsis and trauma and may also impact sex-based outcome differences due to its X-linked inheritance pattern and high prevalence.
Methionine (Met) is one of the 2 most limiting amino acids for milk production in dairy cow diets. The accepted "ideal" ratio of lysine (Lys) to Met (L:M) when formulating diets is 3:1. However, blood from cows fed corn silage-based diets without supplemental rumen-protected Met averages approximately 3.6:1 L:M. Recent in vivo research on cattle immunonutrition has revealed that the immune system could benefit from greater Met supply. To study more closely the effects of different L:M ratios, blood polymorphonuclear cells (PMN) were isolated from 5 Holstein cows in mid-lactation (238 ± 20 d postpartum, 33.8 ± 3.8 kg of milk/d; mean ± SD). The PMN were incubated at 3 different levels of L:M (3.6:1, 2.9:1, or 2.4:1) and stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at either 0 or 50 μg/mL for 2 h at 37°C. Target genes were associated with cytokines, pathogen recognition, nuclear receptors, killing mechanisms, and Met and glutathione metabolism. Data were subjected to ANOVA using PROC MIXED in SAS, with L:M, LPS, and their interaction as fixed effects. Stimulation with LPS upregulated genes related to cytokines (IL1B, TNF, IL10 and IL6) and nuclear receptors, including nuclear factor kappa B (NFKB1) and glucocorticoid receptor (NR3C1), and downregulated the mRNA abundance of chemokine receptor 1 (CXCR1), lysozyme (LYZ) and glutathione reductase (GSR). A linear decrease was observed in the mRNA abundance of TNF when L:M was decreased. A similar response was observed for interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and NFKB1 abundance in cells stimulated with LPS (linear effect). A linear increase of LYZ mRNA expression as L:M decreased was detected in unstimulated cells. Furthermore, a decrease in L:M led to a linear decrease of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mRNA abundance in cells challenged with LPS. Overall, LPS challenge triggered the activation of isolated PMN from mid-lactation cows. However, data suggest the use of a shorter incubation time to capture the peak response and not the resolution of the inflammatory response as in the present study. Our results indicate a possible involvement of Met in modulating PMN inflammatory and oxidative stress status and in helping the resolution of inflammation after initial stimulation.
miR-146a has been implicated in the regulation of the immune response as well as in inflammatory process of atherosclerosis. In the present study, we have investigated the expression of miR-146a and its targets, TLR4 a IRAK1, in aortic valve stenosis. A total of 58 patients with aortic stenosis (non- and atherosclerotic; tissue obtained during standard aortic valve replacement) were enrolled. The relative expression of mir-146a was higher in valvular tissue from patients with atherosclerosis compared to those without atherosclerosis (p = 0.01). Number of the IRAK1 and TLR4 transcripts did not differ between the investigated groups. There was a trend toward elevation of miR-146a expression in context of inflammatory infiltrate observed in the valvular tissue from patients with atherosclerosis (p = 0.06). In conclusion, in line with the acknowledged role of miR-146a in atherosclerotic inflammation, our data suggest it may be extended to the specific location of aortic valves in aortic stenosis.
Expression of concern in    Int Immunopharmacol. 2021 Nov;100:107946.
LPS inhibits HCO3- absorption in the medullary thick ascending limb (MTAL) through a Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88)-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway that is upregulated by sepsis. Pretreatment with the nontoxic immunomodulator monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) prevents inhibition by LPS through activation of a TLR4-TIR-domain-containing adaptor-inducing interferon-β (TRIF)-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway that prevents LPS-induced ERK activation. Here, we identified the molecular mechanisms that underlie the protective inhibitory interaction between the MPLA-PI3K and LPS-ERK pathways. Treatment of mouse MTALs with LPS in vitro increased phosphorylation of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1, a critical mediator of LPS signaling downstream of TLR4-MyD88. Activation of ERK by LPS was eliminated by a selective IRAK-1 inhibitor, establishing IRAK-1 as the upstream mediator of ERK activation. Pretreatment of MTALs with MPLA in vitro prevented LPS-induced IRAK-1 activation; this effect was dependent on PI3K. Treatment of MTALs with MPLA increased expression of Toll-interacting protein (Tollip), an inducible protein that negatively regulates LPS signaling by inhibiting IRAK-1. The MPLA-induced increase in Tollip protein level was prevented by PI3K inhibitors. In coimmunoprecipitation experiments, MPLA increased the amount of Tollip stably bound to IRAK-1, an interaction that inhibits IRAK-1 activation. These results support a mechanism whereby MPLA increases Tollip expression in the MTAL through a PI3K-dependent pathway. Tollip, in turn, inhibits LPS-induced TLR4 signaling by suppressing activation of IRAK-1, thereby preventing activation of ERK that inhibits HCO3- absorption. These studies show that MPLA induces reprogramming of MTAL cells that protects against LPS stimulation and identify IRAK-1 and Tollip as new therapeutic targets to prevent renal tubule dysfunction in response to infectious and inflammatory stimuli.
Author information:(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Yan'An People's Hospital, No. 57, Qilipu Street, Baota District, Yan'an City 716000, Shaanxi Province, China.(2)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of The Fourth Military Medical University, No. 569, Xinsi Road, Xi'an City 710038, Shaanxi Province, China.(3)Department of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of The Fourth Military Medical University, No. 1, Changle East Road, Xi'an City 710032, Shaanxi Province, China.(4)Department of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of The Fourth Military Medical University, No. 1, Changle East Road, Xi'an City 710032, Shaanxi Province, China yangxichao258@163.com.
OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN: Type 2 diabetes is a pandemic disease characterized by hyperglycemia, ineffective insulin use, and insulin resistance and affecting 1 in 11 people worldwide. Inflammation-related insulin resistance is thought to play an important role in the etiology of the disease. TLR4 is the central receptor of the natural immune system and has an important role as a trigger of the inflammatory response. The IRAK1 and TIRAP are members of the TLR4 pathway and involved in the TLR4-mediated inflammatory response. Genetic variants in the TLR4 gene or in the IRAK1 and TIRAP genes may have an important role in the development of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes by disrupting the inflammatory response. In this direction, we aimed to investigate the relationship among TLR4 and IRAK1, TIRAP gene variants, and type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance, and investigate how these variants affect inflammatory factors (TNF-α, IL-6, MCP-1, and IL-1β).SUBJECTS AND METHODS: In our study, a total of seven variations on the genes of TLR4 (rs4986790, rs4986791), IRAK1 (rs1059703, rs3027898, rs7061789), and TIRAP (rs8177374, rs8177400) were genotyped by the MassARRAY® Iplex GOLD SNP genotyping in 100 type 2 diabetic patients and 100 non-diabetic individual. The TLR4 rs4986790 and rs4986791 variation was confirmed by PCR-RFLP method also. The serum IL1-β, IL6, MCP-1, and TNF-α levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits.RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: As a result of our study, no correlation was found among TLR4, IRAK1, and TIRAP gene variants and the risk of type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance. However, TNF-α, IL-6, MCP-1, and IL-1β levels were also associated with diabetes and insulin resistance (p > 0.05). Although the gene variants were not significant in type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance groups, IRAK1, TLR4, and TIRAP gene variants were found to be associated with TNF-α, IL-6, MCP-1, and IL-1β levels.
TLR8 is an endosomal sensor of RNA degradation products in human phagocytes, and is involved in the recognition of viral and bacterial pathogens. We previously showed that in human primary monocytes and monocyte derived macrophages, TLR8 senses entire Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus agalactiae (group B streptococcus, GBS), resulting in the activation of IRF5 and production of IFNβ, IL-12p70, and TNF. However, the quantitative and qualitative impact of TLR8 for the sensing of bacteria have remained unclear because selective inhibitors have been unavailable. Moreover, while we have shown that TLR2 activation attenuates TLR8-IRF5 signaling, the molecular mechanism of this crosstalk is unknown. We here used a recently developed chemical antagonist of TLR8 to determine its role in human primary monocytes challenged with S. aureus, GBS, Streptococcus pneumonia, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and E. coli. The inhibitor completely blocked cytokine production in monocytes stimulated with TLR8-agonists, but not TLR2-, and TLR4-agonists. Upon challenge with S. aureus, GBS, and S. pneumonia, the TLR8 inhibitor almost eliminated the production of IL-1β and IL-12p70, and it strongly reduced the release of IL-6, TNF, and IL-10. With P. aeruginosa infection, the TLR8 inhibitor impaired the production of IL-12p70 and IL-1β, while with E. coli infection the inhibitor had less effect that varied depending on the strain and conditions. Signaling via TLR2, TLR4, or TLR5, but not TLR8, rapidly eliminated IRAK-1 detection by immunoblotting due to IRAK-1 modifications during activation. Silencing of IRAK-1 reduced the induction of IFNβ and TNF by TLR8 activation, suggesting that IRAK-1 is required for TLR8-IRF5 signaling. The TLR-induced modifications of IRAK-1 also correlated closely with attenuation of TLR8-IRF5 activation, suggesting that sequestration and/or modification of Myddosome components by cell surface TLRs limit the function of TLR8. Accordingly, inhibition of CD14- and TLR4-activation during E. coli challenge increased the activation of IRF5 and the production of IL-1β and IL-12p70. We conclude that TLR8 is a dominating sensor of several species of pyogenic bacteria in human monocytes, while some bacteria attenuate TLR8-signaling via cell surface TLR- activation. Taken together, TLR8 appears as a more important sensor in the antibacterial defense system than previously known.
The linear ubiquitin assembly complex (LUBAC) comprises 3 components: HOIP, HOIL-1, and Sharpin, of which HOIP and HOIL-1 are both members of the RBR subfamily of E3 ubiquitin ligases. HOIP catalyses the formation of Met1-linked ubiquitin oligomers (also called linear ubiquitin), but the function of the E3 ligase activity of HOIL-1 is unknown. Here, we report that HOIL-1 is an atypical E3 ligase that forms oxyester bonds between the C terminus of ubiquitin and serine and threonine residues in its substrates. Exploiting the sensitivity of HOIL-1-generated oxyester bonds to cleavage by hydroxylamine, and macrophages from knock-in mice expressing the E3 ligase-inactive HOIL-1[C458S] mutant, we identify IRAK1, IRAK2, and MyD88 as physiological substrates of the HOIL-1 E3 ligase during Toll-like receptor signaling. HOIL-1 is a monoubiquitylating E3 ubiquitin ligase that initiates the de novo synthesis of polyubiquitin chains that are attached to these proteins in macrophages. HOIL-1 also catalyses its own monoubiquitylation in cells and most probably the monoubiquitylation of Sharpin, in which ubiquitin is also attached by an oxyester bond. Our study establishes that oxyester-linked ubiquitylation is used as an intracellular signaling mechanism.
Acne is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder that often involves the formation of Cutibacterium acnes (C. acnes) biofilms. Several microRNAs (miRNAs) are known to be involved in inflammatory responses. However, it is unknown whether miRNAs play a role in the inflammatory reaction triggered by C. acnes biofilm. In this study, we investigated the role of miR-146a in biofilm-derived C. acnes-induced inflammatory responses. Increased expressions of miR-146a and toll-like receptor (TLR) 2 were detected in acne lesions. In the presence of biofilm-derived C. acnes, TLR2 and its downstream NF-kB and MAPK pathways were activated in keratinocytes. Subsequently, miR-146a was upregulated in these cells along with the induction of IL-6, IL-8, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α. Furthermore, our data indicates that miR-146a could directly bind the 3'-untranslated region of IRAK1 and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and suppress their expression, leading to an inhibition of biofilm-derived C. acnes-induced activation of NF-kB, p38, and ERK1/2 pathways. Overall, our results indicate that biofilm-derived C. acnes induces miR-146a, which can downregulate the production of IL-6, -8, and TNF-α in acne inflammation by inhibiting the TLR2/IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB and MAPK pathways.
Evidence suggests that various forms of α-synuclein- (αSyn-) mediated microglial activation are associated with the progression of Parkinson's disease. MicroRNA-155-5p (miR155-5p) is one of the most important microRNAs and enables a robust inflammatory response. Triptolide (T10) is a natural anti-inflammatory component, isolated from a traditional Chinese herb. The objective of the current study was to identify the role and potential regulatory mechanism of T10 in αSyn-induced microglial activation via the miR155-5p mediated SHIP1 signaling pathway. Mouse primary microglia were exposed to monomers, oligomers, and preformed fibrils (PFFs) of human wild-type αSyn, respectively. The expressions of TNFα and IL-1β, measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and qPCR, demonstrated that PFFs initiated the strongest immunogenicity in microglia. Application of inhibitors of toll-like receptor (TLR) 1/2, TLR4, and TLR9 indicated that PFFs activated microglia mainly via the NF-κB pathway by binding TLR1/2 and TLR4. Treatment with T10 significantly suppressed PFF-induced microglial activation and attenuated the release of proinflammatory cytokines including TNFα and IL-1β. Levels of IRAK1, TRAF6, IKKα/β, p-IKKα/β, NF-κB, p-NF-κB, PI3K, p-PI3K, t-Akt, p-Akt and SHIP1 were measured via Western blot. Levels of miR155-5p were measured by qPCR. The results demonstrated that SHIP1 acted as a downstream target molecule of miR155-5p. Treatment with T10 did not alter the expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6, but significantly decreased the expression of miR155-5p, resulting in upregulation of SHIP1 and repression of NF-κB activity, suggesting inhibition of inflammation and microglial activation. The protective effects of T10 were abolished by the use of SHIP1 siRNA and its inhibitor, 3AC, and miR155-5p mimics. In conclusion, our results demonstrated that treatment with T10 suppressed microglial activation and attenuated the release of proinflammatory cytokines by suppressing NF-κB activity via targeting the miR155-5p/SHIP1 pathway in PFFs-induced microglial activation.
OBJECT: To explore the mechanisms of ovarian aging, we performed overall analysis on the age-related alterations of gene expression profiles in mouse germinal vesicle (GV) stage oocytes by means of single-cell RNA-sequencing method (scRNA-seq).METHODS: Two age groups (5-week-old and 32-week-old) female KM mice were used as young and old models. Subsequently, GV oocytes were collected for scRNA-seq. The bioinformatics was performed to analyze and compare the differences of gene expression profile between GV oocytes of young and old mice.RESULTS: The analysis of scRNA-seq data showed that there were 624 differential expressed genes (DEGs) between two age groups of mouse GV stage oocytes. Four hundred forty-nine DEGs were up-regulated while 175 DEGs were down-regulated in the GV oocytes of the old group. KEGG pathway analysis revealed that the genes involved in mitochondrial function including oxidative phosphorylation and ATP production pathway were significantly down-regulated in GV oocytes of 32-week-old mice, especially the mitochondrial encoded NADH dehydrogenase (mt-Nd), including mt-Nd2, mt-Nd3, mt-Nd4, mt-Nd4L and mt-Nd5. Analysis of DEGs revealed that endoplasmic reticulum stress-related genes including AdipoR2, IRAK-1, RCAN1 and MsrB1 were significantly down-regulated in GV oocytes of 32-week-old mice. Also, analysis of DEGs demonstrated that anti-oxidation-related genes including Erbb3、Rcan1、Gsto2 and Msrb1 were significantly down-regulated in GV oocytes of old group.CONCLUSION: The disorder of mitochondrial function, endoplasmic reticulum stress and the reduced antioxidant capability might be involved in the progression of oocyte aging. Especially, the down regulation of mitochondrial encoded subunits of respiratory chain complexes might play critical roles in the relevant mechanisms.
The flower of Pueraria lobata (family Fabaceae) has been clinically used in traditional Chinese medicine to counteract symptoms associated with drinking alcohol and liver injury and to alleviate inflammatory diseases. Its major constituent kakkalide is metabolized to irisolidone by gut microbiota. This research study was undertaken to understand the anti-colitis mechanism of kakkalide and irisolidone in vitro and in vivo. Kakkalide and its metabolite irisolidone inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated NF-κB activation and TNF-α expression in macrophages. They also inhibited LPS-induced phosphorylation of IRAK1 and TAK1 and activation of NF-κB by inhibiting the binding of Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated LPS in vitro. Orally administered irisolidone or kakkalide alleviated colon shortening and myeloperoxidase activity in mice with 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis. Their treatments also protected epithelial cell disruption and infiltration of CD11b+/CD11c+ cells in the colon. Furthermore, they suppressed TNBS-induced expression of M1 macrophage markers TNF-α, CD80, CD86, and Arg2 expression while the expression of M2 macrophage markers Arg1, CD163, CD206, and IL-10 was induced. They also suppressed the fecal Proteobacteria population. Overall, the anti-colitic effects of irisolidone were superior to those of kakkalide. Kakkalide and its metabolite irisolidone inhibited inflammation in vitro and in vivo by inhibiting LPS binding to toll-like receptor 4 and gut proteobacteria population.
AIMS: Combined administration of anthracyclines (e.g. doxorubicin; Dox) and trastuzumab (Trz), a humanized anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2; ErbB2), is an effective treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer. However, both agents are associated with cardiac toxicity. Human cardiac-resident mesenchymal progenitor cells (CPCs) secrete extracellular vesicles including nanosized exosomes which protect against myocardial ischaemia. Here, we investigated the effects of these exosomes using a novel model of Dox/Trz-mediated cardiotoxicity.METHODS AND RESULTS: CPCs were derived from cardiac atrial appendage specimens from patients who underwent heart surgery for heart valve disease and/or ischaemic heart disease, and exosomes were purified from CPC conditioned media. Proteomics analyses revealed that CPC exosomes contained multiple proteins involved in redox processes. Dox/Trz induced a significant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) in rat cardiomyocytes, which was prevented by CPC exosomes. In vivo, rats received six doses of Dox (Days 1-11), followed by six doses of Trz (Days 19-28). Three doses of either exosomes or exosome suspension vehicle were injected intravenously on Days 5, 11, and 19 in the treatment and control groups, respectively. Dox/Trz induced myocardial fibrosis, CD68+ inflammatory cell infiltrates, inducible nitric oxide synthase expression, and left ventricular dysfunction. CPC exosomes prevented these effects. These vesicles were highly enriched in miR-146a-5p compared with human dermal fibroblast exosomes. Dox upregulated Traf6 and Mpo, two known miR-146a-5p target genes (which encode signalling mediators of inflammatory and cell death axes) in myocytes. CPC exosomes suppressed miR-146a-5p target genes Traf6, Smad4, Irak1, Nox4, and Mpo in Dox-treated cells. Specific silencing of miR-146a-5p abrogated exosome-mediated suppression of those genes leading to an increase in Dox-induced cell death.CONCLUSIONS: Human CPC exosomes attenuate Dox-/Trz-induced oxidative stress in cardiomyocytes. Systemic administration of these vesicles prevents Dox/Trz cardiotoxicity in vivo. miR-146a-5p mediates some of the benefits of exosomes in this setting.
Geranylgeraniol (GGOH), a natural isoprenoid found in plants, has anti-inflammatory effects via inhibiting the activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NFκB). However, its detailed mechanism has not yet been elucidated. Recent studies have revealed that isoprenoids can modulate signaling molecules in innate immune responses. We found that GGOH decreased the expression of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory genes in human macrophage-like THP-1 cells. Furthermore, we observed that the suppression of NFκB signaling proteins, in particular interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), occurred in GGOH-treated cells prior to LPS stimulation, suggesting an immunomodulatory effect. These results indicate that GGOH may modulate and help prevent excessive NFκB activation that can lead to numerous diseases.
Accumulating evidence suggests granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) can function as an inflammatory mediator, but whether GM-CSF-producing CD4+ T cells (TH-GM-CSF) are a distinct T helper cell subset is lacking. Herein we demonstrate that interleukin (IL)-1β exclusively drives differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into TH-GM-CSF cells via inducing ubiquitination of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and subsequent activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB (NF-κB), independent of RAR-related orphan receptor gamma (RORγt) required for TH17 differentiation. In vivo, TH-GM-CSF cells are present in murine Citrobacter Rodentium infections and mediate colitis following adoptive transfer of CD4+ T cells into Rag1-/- mice via GM-CSF-induced macrophage activation. The TH-GM-CSF cell phenotype is stable and distinct from the TH17 genetic program, but IL-1β can convert pre-formed TH17 cells into TH-GM-CSF cells, thereby accounting for previously reported associations between IL-17 and GM-CSF. Together, our results newly identify IL-1β/NF-κB-dependent TH-GM-CSF cells as a unique T helper cell subset and highlight the importance of CD4+ T cell-derived GM-CSF induced macrophage activation as a previously undescribed T cell effector mechanism.
Expression of concern in    Artif Cells Nanomed Biotechnol. 2021 Dec;49(1):549.
AIMS: Previous studies have demonstrated that transcriptional silencing of miRNAs due to DNA hypermethylation is associated with different pathologies. It has also been reported that abnormal expression of miR-140-5p and miR-146a is linked to osteoarthritis (OA) progression. In this study, we investigated the role of DNA methylation on miR-140-5p and miR-146a expression in OA.MAIN METHODS: miR-140-5p and miR-146a expression was investigated by qRT-PCR. The methylation status of miR-140 and miR-146a regulatory regions was analyzed using qMSP and bisulfite sequencing analysis. SMAD-3 and NF-kB binding to miR-140 and miR-146a regulatory regions was assessed by ChIP assay and knockdown experiments. OA-related genes' expression was evaluated in 5-AzadC, miRNAs inhibitor and 5-AzadC/miRNAs inhibitor-treated cells.KEY FINDINGS: Hypermethylation of specific CpG sites in miR-140 and miR-146a regulatory regions was associated with downregulation of miR-140-5p and miR-146a in OA chondrocytes and synoviocytes, respectively. 5-AzadC-induced miR-140-5p and miR-146a upregulation was observed in OA chondrocytes and synoviocytes. Moreover, we found decreased binding affinity of SMAD-3 and NF-kB transcription factors on the hypermethylated miR-140-5p and miR-146a regulatory regions, respectively. Downregulation of MMP-13 and ADAMTS-5 in 5-AzadC-treated OA chondrocytes was prevented by miR-140-5p inhibitor transfection. Similarly, 5-AzadC-treated OA synoviocytes showed decreased expression of IRAK-1, IL1Β and IL-6, which was reversed following 5-AzadC-/miR-146a inhibitor treatment.SIGNIFICANCE: Our results strongly suggest the impact of DNA methylation on miR-140-5p and miR-146a suppression in OA chondrocytes and synoviocytes, contributing to OA pathogenesis.
Pemphigus vulgaris is a rare chronic blistering skin disease resulting from IgG autoantibodies directed against transmembrane desmosomal glycoprotein desmoglein 3 and is the most common form of pemphigus. Since interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK-1)/nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) pathway plays an essential role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases, the aim of the present study was to explore the role of polymorphisms in three genes, named IRAK1 (rs3027898), NFKBIA (rs696) and NFKB1 (-94ATTG insertion/deletion variant, - rs28362491), in PV susceptibility. Forty-four unrelated patients with PV (23 males) were enrolled in the study. Additionally, 77 ethnic matching healthy volunteers (45 males) with no personal or family history of chronic autoimmune or infectious diseases were studied. Strong statistical significant difference was observed between PV patients and controls for polymorphism -94 insertion/deletion ATTG in the promoter region of NFKB1 gene (P = 0.00005). Additional dedicated studies in larger groups of patients of various ethnicities are needed to replicate and confirm the preliminary findings.
Increasing evidence supports that the efflux transporters, especially P-glycoprotein (P-gp), have vital roles on drug resistance in epilepsy. Overexpression of P-gp in the brain could reduce the anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) concentration in the epileptogenic zone, resulting in drug resistance. Studies have demonstrated that recurrent seizures induce the expression of P-gp and status epilepticus (SE) could upregulate the expression of P-gp, resulting in drug resistance. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), as endogenous regulators, represent small regulatory RNA molecules that have been shown to act as negative regulators of gene expression in different biological processes. We investigated the impact of miR-146a-5p on the expression of P-gp in status epilepticus rat model. The expression of miR-146a-5p in rat cortex and hippocampus was measured by quantitative RT-PCR at 2 weeks after induction of SE. Meanwhile, we detected the expression of P-gp in the brain of SE rats using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Upregulation of miR-146a-5p and overexpression of P-gp were evident at 2 weeks after SE. Moreover, the expression of P-gp was downregulated by injection of miR-146a mimic into the hippocampus. We also detected the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated protein kinases-1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) p65 using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry, which indicated the expression of IRAK1, TRAF6 and NF-κB p-p65/p65 increased in the brain of SE rats, and overexpression of miR-146a-5p could downregulate the expression of IRAK1, TRAF6, NF-κB p-p65/p65 and P-gp. Our study indicated that miR-146a-5p may decrease the expression of P-gp in status epilepticus rats via NF-κB signaling pathway.
Over the last decade, multiple studies have shown that signaling proteins activated in different temporal patterns, such as oscillatory, transient, and sustained, can result in distinct gene expression patterns or cell fates. However, the molecular events that ensure appropriate stimulus- and dose-dependent dynamics are not often understood and are difficult to investigate. Here, we used single-cell analysis to dissect the mechanisms underlying the stimulus- and dose-encoding patterns in the innate immune signaling network. We found that Toll-like receptor (TLR) and interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) signaling dynamics relied on a dose-dependent, autoinhibitory loop that rendered cells refractory to further stimulation. Using inducible gene expression and optogenetics to perturb the network at different levels, we identified IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) as the dose-sensing node responsible for limiting signal flow during the innate immune response. Although the kinase activity of IRAK1 was not required for signal propagation, it played a critical role in inhibiting the nucleocytoplasmic oscillations of the transcription factor NF-κB. Thus, protein activities that may be "dispensable" from a topological perspective can nevertheless be essential in shaping the dynamic response to the external environment.
Macrophage-orchestrated, low-grade chronic inflammation plays a pivotal role in obesity and atherogenesis. However, the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify major vault protein (MVP), the main component of unique cellular ribonucleoprotein particles, as a suppressor for NF-κB signaling in macrophages. Both global and myeloid-specific MVP gene knockout aggravates high-fat diet induced obesity, insulin resistance, hepatic steatosis and atherosclerosis in mice. The exacerbated metabolic disorders caused by MVP deficiency are accompanied with increased macrophage infiltration and heightened inflammatory responses in the microenvironments. In vitro studies reveal that MVP interacts with TRAF6 preventing its recruitment to IRAK1 and subsequent oligomerization and ubiquitination. Overexpression of MVP and its α-helical domain inhibits the activity of TRAF6 and suppresses macrophage inflammation. Our results demonstrate that macrophage MVP constitutes a key constraint of NF-κB signaling thereby suppressing metabolic diseases.
Erratum in    Onco Targets Ther. 2019 Jul 05;12:5375.
The negative immune regulator Tollip inhibits the proinflammatory response to rhinovirus (RV) infection, a contributor to airway neutrophilic inflammation and asthma exacerbations, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Tollip may inhibit IRAK1, a signaling molecule downstream of ST2, the receptor of IL-33. This study was carried out to determine whether Tollip downregulates ST2 signaling via inhibition of IRAK1, but promotes soluble ST2 (sST2) production, thereby limiting excessive IL-8 production in human airway epithelial cells during RV infection in a type 2 cytokine milieu (e.g., IL-13 and IL-33 stimulation). Tollip- and IRAK1-deficient primary human tracheobronchial epithelial (HTBE) cells and Tollip knockout (KO) HTBE cells were generated using the shRNA knockdown and CRISPR/Cas9 approaches, respectively. Cells were stimulated with IL-13, IL-33, and/or RV16. sST2, activated IRAK1, and IL-8 were measured. A Tollip KO mouse model was utilized to test if Tollip regulates the airway inflammatory response to RV infection in vivo under IL-13 and IL-33 treatment. Following IL-13, IL-33, and RV treatment, Tollip-deficient (vs. -sufficient) HTBE cells produced excessive IL-8, accompanied by decreased sST2 production but increased IRAK1 activation. IL-8 production following IL-13/IL-33/RV exposure was markedly attenuated in IRAK1-deficient HTBE cells, as well as in Tollip KO HTBE cells treated with an IRAK1 inhibitor or a recombinant sST2 protein. Tollip KO (vs. wild-type) mice developed exaggerated airway neutrophilic responses to RV in the context of IL-13 and IL-33 treatment. Collectively, these data demonstrate that Tollip restricts excessive IL-8 production in type 2 cytokine-exposed human airways during RV infection by promoting sST2 production and inhibiting IRAK1 activation. sST2 and IRAK1 may be therapeutic targets for attenuating excessive neutrophilic airway inflammation in asthma, especially during RV infection.
The nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway plays a key role in innate and adaptive immunity, cell proliferation and survival, inflammation and tumors development. MiR-146a is an immune system regulator that has anti-inflammatory function in multiple cell types and conditions. Here we demonstrate activation of canonical NF-κB pathway in monocytic cells upon HSV-1 replication. By constructing and using a recombinant HSV-1\EGFP virus, we monitored the capability of the virus to recruit NF-κB and we report that the phosphorylation of p65 protein correlates with an active virus replication at single-cell level. In addition, we found that upregulation of miR-146a during viral replication is strictly dependent on NF-κB activation and correlates with tight control of the interleukin-1 receptor-associate kinase 1 (IRAK1). Accordingly, THP-1 DN IκBα cells, expressing a dominant negative mIκBα, did not show upregulation of miR-146a upon HSV-1 infection. Our data suggest that the expression of miRNA-146a modulates NF-κB activation through targeting IRAK1 during HSV-1 replication in THP-1 cells.
Virus-inhibitory protein, endoplasmic reticulum-associated, interferon-inducible (viperin) is a radical SAM enzyme that plays a multifaceted role in the cellular antiviral response. Viperin has recently been shown to catalyze the SAM-dependent formation of 3'-deoxy-3',4'-didehydro-CTP (ddhCTP), which inhibits some viral RNA polymerases. Viperin is also implicated in regulating Lys-63-linked polyubiquitination of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK1) by the E3 ubiquitin ligase tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) as part of the Toll-like receptor-7 and -9 (TLR7/9) innate immune signaling pathways. In these pathways, the poly-ubiquitination of IRAK1 by TRAF6 is necessary to activate IRAK1, which then phosphorylates downstream targets and ultimately leads to the production of type I interferons. That viperin is a component of these pathways suggested that its enzymatic activity might be regulated by interactions with partner proteins. To test this idea, we have reconstituted the interactions between viperin, IRAK1, and TRAF6 by transiently expressing these enzymes in HEK 293T cells. We show that IRAK1 and TRAF6 increase viperin activity ∼10-fold to efficiently catalyze the radical-mediated dehydration of CTP to ddhCTP. Furthermore, we found that TRAF6-mediated ubiquitination of IRAK1 requires the association of viperin with both IRAK1 and TRAF6. Ubiquitination appears to depend on structural changes in viperin induced by SAM binding, but, significantly, does not require catalytically active viperin. We conclude that the synergistic activation of viperin and IRAK1 provides a mechanism that couples innate immune signaling with the production of the antiviral nucleotide ddhCTP.
Neuropathic pain (NP) has complicated pathogenesis as it mainly involves a lesion or dysfunction of the somatosensory nervous system and its clinical treatment remains challenging. Chronic constriction injury (CCI) model is a widely used neuropathic pain model and involved in mechanisms including both nerve inflammatory and injury. Cytokines and their receptors play essential roles in the occurrence and persistence of neuropathic pain, but the underlying mechanisms have not well been understood. Therefore, Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is chosen to explore the possible mechanisms of NP. In the present study, IRAK1 was found to persistently increase in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal cord (SC) during CCI detected by western blot. The staining further confirmed that IRAK1 was mainly co-located in the DRG astrocytes or SC neurons, but less in the DRG microglia or SC astrocytes. Moreover, the region of increased IRAK1 expression was observed in superficial laminae of the spinal dorsal horn, which was the nociceptive neuronal expression domain, suggesting that IRAK1 may mediated CCI-induced pain by nociceptive primary afferent. In addition, intrathecal injection of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) inhibitor or IRAK1 siRNA decreased the expression of IRAK1 accompanied with the alleviation of CCI-induced neuropathic pain. The upregulation of p-NF-κB expression was reversed by IRAK1 siRNA in SC, and intrathecal injection of p-NF-κB inhibitor relieved neuropathic pain. Taking together, targeting IRAK1 may be a potential treatment for chronic neuropathic pain.
IL-36 cytokines are critical regulators of mucosal inflammation and homeostasis. IL-36γ regulates the expression of inflammatory cytokines and antimicrobial proteins by gingival epithelial cells (e.g. TIGK cells). Here, we show that IL-36γ also regulates the expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), important mediators of antimicrobial immunity and tissue homeostasis in mucosal epithelia. MMP9 and NGAL were not similarly induced by IL-17 or IL-22, thus indicating the importance of IL-36γ in the regulation of MMP9 and NGAL. Mechanistically, MMP9 and NGAL expression was demonstrated to be induced in an IRAK1- and NF-κB-dependent manner. Furthermore, signaling by p38 MAP kinase may enable their expression to be independently regulated by IL-36γ. The stronger IL-36γ-inducible expression of MMP9 and NGAL in terminally differentiating TIGK cells suggests that control of their expression is associated with the maturation of the gingival epithelium. Although MMP9 and NGAL expression in epithelial cells can also be induced by bacteria, their expression in TIGK cells was not induced by the periodontal pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis, most likely due to antagonism by the gingipain proteinase virulence factors. This study advances our understanding of how IL-36γ may promote oral mucosal immunity and tissue homeostasis, and how this may be dysregulated by bacterial pathogens.
Leukocyte integrin-dependent downregulation of the transcription factor FOXP1 is required for monocyte differentiation and macrophage functions, but the precise gene regulatory mechanism is unknown. Here, we identify multi-promoter structure (P1, P2, and P3) of the human FOXP1 gene. Clustering of the β2-leukocyte integrin Mac-1 downregulated transcription from these promoters. We extend our prior observation that IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is physically associated with Mac-1 and provide evidence that IRAK1 is a potent suppressor of human FOXP1 promoter. IRAK1 reduced phosphorylation of histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4) via inhibiting phosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II delta (CaMKIIδ), thereby promoting recruitment of HDAC4 to P1 chromatin. A novel human FOXP1 intronic transcript 1 (FOXP1-IT1) long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), whose gene is embedded within that of FOXP1, has been cloned and found to bind directly to HDAC4 and regulate FOXP1 in cis manner. Overexpression of FOXP1-IT1 counteracted Mac-1 clustering-dependent downregulation of FOXP1, reduced IRAK1 downregulation of HDAC4 phosphorylation, and attenuated differentiation of THP-1 monocytic cells. In contrast, Mac-1 clustering inhibited FOXP1-IT1 expression with reduced binding to HDAC4 as well as phosphorylation of CaMKIIδ to activate the IRAK1 signaling pathway. Importantly, both IRAK1 and HDAC4 inhibitors significantly reduced integrin clustering-triggered downregulation of FOXP1 expression in purified human blood monocytes. Identification of this Mac-1/IRAK-1/FOXP1-IT1/HDAC4 signaling network featuring crosstalk between lncRNA and epigenetic factor for the regulation of FOXP1 expression provides new targets for anti-inflammatory therapeutics.
Despite years of research, we are still unraveling crucial stages of gene expression regulation in cancer. On the basis of major biological hallmarks, we hypothesized that there must be a uniform gene expression pattern and regulation across cancer types. Among non-coding genes, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are emerging as key gene regulators playing powerful roles in cancer. Using TCGA RNAseq data, we analyzed coding (mRNA) and non-coding (lncRNA) gene expression across 15 and 9 common cancer types, respectively. 70 significantly differentially expressed genes common to all 15 cancer types were enlisted. Correlating with protein expression levels from Human Protein Atlas, we observed 34 positively correlated gene sets which are enriched in gene expression, transcription from RNA Pol-II, regulation of transcription and mitotic cell cycle biological processes. Further, 24 lncRNAs were among common significantly differentially expressed non-coding genes. Using guilt-by-association method, we predicted lncRNAs to be involved in same biological processes. Combining RNA-RNA interaction prediction and transcription regulatory networks, we identified E2F1, FOXM1 and PVT1 regulatory path as recurring pan-cancer regulatory entity. PVT1 is predicted to interact with SYNE1 at 3'-UTR; DNAJC9, RNPS1 at 5'-UTR and ATXN2L, ALAD, FOXM1 and IRAK1 at CDS sites. The key findings are that through E2F1, FOXM1 and PVT1 regulatory axis and possible interactions with different coding genes, PVT1 may be playing a prominent role in pan-cancer development and progression.
Acute lung injury (ALI) and its severe form, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), pose a major clinical challenge. The major driving force in this syndrome is pulmonary inflammation. Recent studies have shown that the naturally occurring flavonoid kaempferol (KPF) reduces endotoxin-induced inflammatory responses in mice. However, the mechanisms of these anti-inflammatory activities are not currently known. Here, we show that enhanced inflammatory cytokine production in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is due to increased TGF-β-activated kinase-1 (TAK1) phosphorylation with subsequent activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB). KPF attenuates LPS-mediated production of cytokines as well as activation of NF-κB. Furthermore, we identified that KPF prevents increased K63-linked polyubiquitination on TNF receptor associated factor-6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). K63-linked polyubiquitination is a signal leading to enhanced activation of downstream pathways including TAK1. Our study shows that KPF is effective in reducing lung damage induced by LPS by modulating TRAF6 polyubiquitination. Furthermore, our findings may provide novel molecular targets to alleviate acute lung injury.
The death of mature oligodendrocytes (OLs) leads to demyelination in the central nervous system (CNS) and subsequently to functional deficits. Remyelination requires the differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) into myelinating OLs, which in the CNS with neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS), is often inhibited. Among the inhibitors of OPC differentiation are toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) signaling, and both are negatively regulated by microRNA-146a (miR-146a). Therefore, we hypothesized that increase of miR-146a level in the CNS would foster OPC differentiation and remyelination by inhibiting the TLR2/IRAK1 signaling pathway. Here, we tested this hypothesis using exogenous miR-146a mimics and a mouse model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by immunization with myelin proteolipid protein peptide (PLP139-151). EAE mice were treated by miR-146a mimics or miR-146a mimic negative controls, respectively, which initiated at day 14 post immunization, once a week for 6 consecutive weeks. Neurological function was monitored daily. Immunofluorescent staining, qRT-PCR and Western blot were used to measure the differentiation of OPCs and myelination, and to investigate the underlying mechanisms of action of miR-146a. Using a fluorescence tracing approach, we found that miR-146a mimics crossed the blood brain barrier and targeted OPCs and microglia/macrophages after systemic administration. MiR-146a mimic treatment substantially improved neurological functional outcome, increased the number of newly generated OLs which may facilitate remyelination in the CNS. The cell number, cytokine level and protein levels of M2 phonotype of microglia/macrophages significantly increased, while cytokine and protein levels of the M1 phenotype significantly decreased after miR-146a mimic treatment. Increased OPC differentiation and remyelination were associated with reduction of TLR2/IRAK1 signaling pathway activity by miR-146a mimic treatment. This study provides insight into the cellular and molecular bases for the therapeutic effects of miR-146a on OPC differentiation and remyelination, and suggests the potential of enhancing miR-146a as a treatment of demyelinating disorders.
PURPOSE: Dysregulation of microRNA expression has been involved in the development and progression of follicular thyroid carcinoma (FTC). The aim of this work was to study the expression of miRNA146a in FTC and the association with clinicopathological features of the disease.METHODS: Thirty-eight patients affected by FTC were included in the study. Twenty patients carrying follicular thyroid adenoma (FA) were also enroled as the benign counterpart of FTC. Total RNA including miRNA146a was extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) pairs of affected/unaffected tissue and its expression was assessed by real-time PCR. Two selected target genes, TRAF6 (tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6) and IRAK1 (Il-1 receptor-associated kinase 1/2), were also analysed.RESULTS: miR146a expression in FTC tissue was overall not downregulated in malignant versus unaffected tissue, but its expression was inversely correlated with clinicopathological features of FTCs at diagnosis. A decreased expression of miR146a became apparent in FTC thyroid tissue of widely compared to minimally invasive tumours. However, miR146a expression differences between contralateral unaffected tissue (extra-FTC) and FTC were not observed regardless of clinicopathological features. IRAK1, a known target for miR146a, was upregulated in FTC and the increase was mainly appreciable in Hurtle FTC variant. Unexpectedly, miR146a did not correlate with TRAF6 showing an inverse trend compared to IRAK1 although both genes regulate the activity of nuclear factor- kB (NF-kB).CONCLUSION: The results of this study indicate that downregulation of miR146a, inversely correlated with clinicopathological features of FTCs at diagnosis and suggest a possible involvement of miR146a in FTC development. IRAK1 over-expression in FTC may be related to tumour development/progression. In vitro experiments are needed to support this hypothesis.
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a common postoperative complication that is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. However, the neuropathogenesis of this complication remains largely unknown. Neuroinflammation, in particular hippocampal inflammation, contributes to POCD. Recently, increasing evidence has supported the involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in the regulation of neuroinflammation in human neurological disorders. In the present study, we investigated the role of miR-146a, a key regulator of the innate immune response, in surgery-induced hippocampal inflammation and cognitive impairment. The expression of miR-146a was measured in BV-2 microglial cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and hippocampal tissues of mice with POCD. Loss of function and overexpression studies were performed via transfection with miR-146a mimic/inhibitor in cultured BV-2 cell lines and intrahippocampal injection of miR-146a agomir/antagomir before surgery/anesthesia to identify the role of miR-146a in neuroinflammation and cognitive impairment. QPCR, Western blot and ELISA were used to determine the expression levels of downstream adaptor proteins and proinflammatory cytokines. Immunofluorescence staining was applied to evaluate the activation of microglia. Increased expression of miR-146a was observed in BV-2 microglial cells stimulated with LPS and hippocampal tissues of mice with POCD. Modulation of miR-146a expression via transfection of microglia with miR-146a mimic or inhibitor regulated the mRNA and protein expression levels of downstream targets of miR-146a (IRAK1 and TRAF6) as well as the release of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6). In addition, overexpression of miR-146a attenuated hippocampus-dependent learning and memory impairment in mice with POCD, which was accompanied by decreased expression of the IRAK1/TRAF6/nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathway and downregulation of microglial activation in the hippocampus. Conversely, knockdown of miR-146a expression may exacerbate hippocampus-dependent learning and memory deficiency and hippocampal inflammation in mice with POCD. Collectively, our findings demonstrate the important role of miR-146a in the neuropathogenesis of POCD and suggest that miR-146a may be a potential therapeutic target for POCD.
Genomic copy number variations (CNVs) can be detected by chromosomal microarray testing. However, upon final diagnosis, other methods may be recommended for a validation method to confirm CNVs. Trio analyses or carrier detection in family members are also frequently required. Previously, fluorescence in situ hybridization and/or quantitative PCR have been used; however, these methods present limitations. The purpose of this study was to establish a simple and rapid method to detect genomic copy numbers. We utilized droplet digital PCR (dPCR) with an intercalation method. Thirteen patients, who were diagnosed with MECP2 duplications via chromosomal microarray testing, were enrolled in this study. Four of their female relatives, who were verified as carriers of MECP2 duplications, were also included. Genomic copy numbers of MECP2 and IRAK1 were analyzed in comparison with reference genes: XIST and AR on the X-chromosome, and RPP30 and RPPH1 on the autosomal chromosomes. As a result, genomic copy numbers of MECP2 were rapidly and precisely detected by the dPCR system established in this study. This method can be widely applied as a diagnostic method to confirm CNVs on other chromosomal regions.
Erratum in    Cell Death Dis. 2022 Jan 26;13(1):85.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are associated with the formation and progression of many types of cancers. In the present study, the aim was to elucidate the involvement of miR-146a-5p in the regulation of human breast cancer (BC) cell growth and invasion, as well as the mechanisms underlying its effects. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction results revealed that miR-146a-5p was markedly downregulated in BC tissues relative to those of adjacent normal tissues. miR-146a-5p expression was also markedly downregulated in BC cells. Overexpression of miR-146a-5p significantly suppressed the proliferation, invasion and migration of BC MDA-MB-453 and MCF7 cells. Furthermore, the results indicated that miR-146a-5p downregulated the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) by directly binding to its 3'-untranslated region in BC cells. Furthermore, IRAK1 expression was observed to be markedly upregulated and inversely correlated with miR-146a-5p expression in BC tissues. Mechanical studies indicated that restoring IRAK1 expression reversed the miR-146a-5p-induced inhibitory effects on proliferation and invasion of BC cells. In conclusion, miR-146a-5p may act as a tumor suppressor in BC by directly targeting IRAK1. These results highlighted the potential of miR-146a-5p as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of BC.
Drug-based strategies to overcome tumour resistance to radiotherapy (R-RT) remain limited by the single-agent toxicity of traditional radiosensitizers (for example, platinums) and a lack of targeted alternatives. In a screen for compounds that restore radiosensitivity in p53 mutant zebrafish while tolerated in non-irradiated wild-type animals, we identified the benzimidazole anthelmintic oxfendazole. Surprisingly, oxfendazole acts via the inhibition of IRAK1, a kinase thus far implicated in interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) and Toll-like receptor (TLR) immune responses. IRAK1 drives R-RT in a pathway involving IRAK4 and TRAF6 but not the IL-1R/TLR-IRAK adaptor MyD88. Rather than stimulating nuclear factor-κB, radiation-activated IRAK1 prevented apoptosis mediated by the PIDDosome complex (comprising PIDD, RAIDD and caspase-2). Countering this pathway with IRAK1 inhibitors suppressed R-RT in tumour models derived from cancers in which TP53 mutations predict R-RT. Moreover, IRAK1 inhibitors synergized with inhibitors of PIN1, a prolyl isomerase essential for IRAK1 activation in response to pathogens and, as shown here, in response to ionizing radiation. These data identify an IRAK1 radiation-response pathway as a rational chemoradiation therapy target.
Genetic variants are associated with altered clinical outcome of patients with sepsis and cardiovascular diseases. Common gene signaling pathways may be involved in the pathophysiology of these diseases. A better understanding of genetic commonality among these diseases may enable the discovery of important genes, signaling pathways, and therapeutic targets for these diseases. We investigated the common genetic factors by a systematic search of the literature. Twenty-four genes (ADRB2, CD14, FGB, FV, HMOX1, IL1B, IL1RN, IL6, IL10, IL17A, IRAK1, MASP2, MBL, MIR608, MIF, NOD2, PCSK9, PPARG, PROC, SERPINE1, SOD2, SVEP1, TF, TIRAP, TLR1) were extracted as reported genetic variations associated with altered outcome of both sepsis and cardiovascular diseases. Of these genes, the adverse allele (or combinations) was same in nine (ADRB2, FV, HMOX1, IL6, MBL, MIF, NOD2, PCSK9, SERPINE1), and the effect appears to be in the same direction in both sepsis and cardiovascular disease. Shared gene signaling pathways suggest that these are true biological results and could point to overlapping drug targets in sepsis and cardiovascular disease.
Accumulating evidence indicates that microRNA-146a (miR-146a), a well-known anti-inflammatory miRNA, acts as a negative feedback regulator of the innate immune response, but its role in modulation of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remains unclear and the issue related to the stability of exogenous miR-146a in blood is up in the air. In this study, extracellular vesicles (EVs) from cultured medium of bone-marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) transfected with recombinant lentiviruses can serve as a stable delivery system and overexpress miR-146a, which significantly inhibited TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) expression in TNBS-induced colitis of rats. Moreover, the increased phosphorylation levels of NF-κB p65 and IκBα were down-regulated by the administration of EVs containing miR-146a. Coupled with the associated influence of over-expressed miR-146a on phosphorylated proteins above, the production of inflammation factors such as tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and Interleukin-1β is apparently suppressed by this non-coding RNA. Collectively, these data elucidated that EVs containing miR-146a ameliorates experimental colitis caused 2,4,6‑trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) by targeting TRAF6 and IRAK1.
The synergistic anti-inflammatory effect of quercetin and catechin was investigated using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophage RAW 264.7 cells. Results showed that the combined treatment of quercetin with catechin synergistically attenuated LPS-stimulated increase of some proinflammatory molecules, including nitric oxide, tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin-1β, nitric oxide synthase, and cyclooxygenase-2. Moreover, it exhibited significantly (p < 0.05) stronger inhibitory effect on nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) by suppressing the phosphorylation of NF-κB p65 and p50 submits and on the phosphorylation of ETS domain-containing protein and c-Jun N-terminal kinase than any of quercetin or catechin alone. Besides, the cotreatment of quercetin with catechin significantly (p < 0.05) restored the impaired expression of toll-like receptor 4, myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88, and some downstream effectors (IRAK1, TRAF6, and TAK1). These results suggest that quercetin and catechin possessed synergistic anti-inflammatory effects, which may be attributed to their roles in suppressing the activation of TLR4-MyD88-mediated NF-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases signaling pathways.
Background: Innate immune response to neuronal death is one of the key events of the pathogenesis of ischemic brain injury. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-M, encoded by gene Irak3, negatively regulates toll-like receptor signaling by interacting with the MyD88-IRAK-4-IRAK-1 complex and blocking the phosphorylation and dissociation of IRAK-1. Its function in the ischemic stroke is unknown. Objective: This study aims to investigate whether IRAK-M deficiency could exacerbate neuroinflammation and neurovascular injuries during cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. Methods: Male C57BL/6 mice and Irak3 knockout mice were subjected to 45 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion and 4 or 24 h of reperfusion. Transcription of Irak3 gene was evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Then, infarct volume, neurological score, brain water content, and Evans blue leakage were compared between knock-out and wild-type mice after reperfusion. Through the observation of gross brain specimen after cerebral ischemia, the incidence of hemorrhage transformation was compared between KO and WT mice. To explore underlying signaling pathways involved in IRAK-M deficiency, major proinflammatory cytokines and NF-κB signaling were measured by qRT-PCR and Western blot. Results: The expression of IRAK-M peaked at 1 h after reperfusion, and then gradually decreased within the first 24 h, which was abolished by blocking the expression of hypoxia induced factor 1α. IRAK-M deficiency increased infarct volume, brain edema, the incidence of hemorrhage transformation, and the permeability of blood-brain barrier. In addition, the NF-κB-mediated expressions of proinflammatory cytokines and the activation of microglia in the ipsilateral brain from knock-out mice were much higher than those in wild-type littermates. Conclusion: IRAK-M deletion exacerbates neurovascular damages which are related to the pronounced activation of NF-κB signaling and neuroinflammatory responses during cerebral ischemia-reperfusion in mice. Our study indicates that IRAK-M has neuroprotective effect and has potential to facilitate the development of new pharmaceuticals that reduce neurovascular complications.
RNA interference (RNAi) based therapeutics are considered an endogenous mechanism for modulating gene expression. In addition, microRNAs (miRNAs) may be tractable targets for the treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). In this study miR146a was adsorbed onto poly (glycerol adipate-co-ω-pentadecalactone), PGA-co-PDL, nanoparticles (NPs) to reduce target gene IRAK1 expression. NPs were prepared using an oil-in-water single emulsion solvent evaporation method incorporating cationic lipid dioleoyltrimethylammoniumpropane (DOTAP). This resulted in NPs of 244.80 ± 4.40 nm at 15% DOTAP concentration, zeta potential (ZP) of +14.8 ± 0.26 mV and miR-146a (40 µg/ml) maximum adsorption onto 15% DOTAP NPs was 36.25 ± 0.35 µg per 10 mg NP following 24 h incubation. Using the MTT assay, it was observed that over 75% at 0.312 mg/ml of A549 cells remained viable after 18 h exposure to cationic NPs at a concentration of 1.25 mg/ml. Furthermore, the in vitro release profile of miR-146a from loaded NPs showed a continuous release up to 77% after 24 h. Internalization of miR-146a loaded cationic NPs was observed in A549 cell lines using fluorescence and confocal microscopy. The miR146a delivered as miR-146a-NPs had a dose dependent effect of highest NPs concentrations 0.321 and 0.625 mg/ml and reduced target gene IRAK1 expression to 40%. In addition, IL-8 promoter reporter output (GFP) was dampened by miR-146a-NPs. In conclusion, miR-146a was successfully adsorbed onto PGA-co-PDL-DOTAP NPs and the miR-146a retained biological activity. Therefore, these results demonstrate the potential of PGA-co-PDL NPs as a delivery system for miR-146a to treat COPD.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine involved in the acute and chronic inflammatory processes of dental pulp. Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and IL-8 are two major inflammatory mediators. However, the role of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) signaling pathways in responsible for the inflammatory effects of IL-1β on dental pulp cells is not clear.METHODS: Cultured human dental pulp cells were exposed to IL-1β with/without pretreatment and co-incubation with IRAK1/4 inhibitor or SB203580 (p38 inhibitor). IRAK-1 phosphorylation was evaluated by immunno fluorescent staining. The protein expression of ICAM-1 and IL-8 were tested by western blotting. The secretion of soluble ICAM-1 (sICAM-1) and IL-8 was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA).RESULTS: IL-1β stimulated IRAK-1 phosphorylation of pulp cells within 120 min of exposure. IRAK1/4 inhibitor attenuated the IL-1β-induced ICAM-1, but not IL-8 protein expression. IRAK1/4 inhibitor also prevented the IL-1β-induced sICAM-1, but not IL-8 secretion. SB203580 showed little effect on IL-1β-induced sICAM-1 secretion, but effectively inhibited its induction of IL-8 secretion in pulp cells.CONCLUSION: The Results reveal the important role of IL-1β in pulpal inflammatory responses via stimulation of IL-8 and ICAM-1 expression and secretion. Moreover, IL-1β-induced effects on IL-8 and ICAM-1 are differentially regulated by IRAK1/4 and p38 signaling in dental pulp cells. Blocking of IRAKs and p38 signaling may have potential to control inflammation of dental pulp in the future.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is the major cause of chronic active gastritis and peptic ulcer disease. Upregulation of IL‑17A is associated with H. pylori infection in the gastric mucosa; however, the factors involved in the regulation of interleukin (IL)‑17A‑induced inflammatory responses in H. pylori‑associated gastritis remain unknown. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) serve as key post‑transcriptional regulators of gene expression and are associated with the H. pylori infection. The present study aimed to analyze the effects of IL‑17A on the expression of miR‑146a upon infection with H. pylori, as well as to identify the possible impact of miR‑146a dysregulation on the inflammatory response in vivo and in vitro. Reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis was used to determine the expression levels of miR‑146a in gastric epithelial cells upon IL‑17A stimulation. The effects of miR‑146a mimics on IL‑17A‑induced inflammatory responses in SGC‑7901 cells were evaluated. The effects of miR‑146a mimics on the expression levels of IL‑1 receptor‑associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor‑associated factor 6 (TRAF6) upon IL‑17A treatment were analyzed, and the IL‑17A‑stimulated inflammation following the silencing of IRAK1 and TRAF6 was observed. In addition, the correlation between miR‑146a and IL‑17A in human gastric mucosa with H. pylori was examined. The results indicated that IL‑17A‑induced miR‑146a may regulate the inflammatory response during the infection of H. pylori in a nuclear factor‑κB‑dependent manner. Furthermore, the expression of miR‑146a and IL‑17A are positively correlated in human gastric mucosa infected with H. pylori. These data suggested that miR‑146a may serve as a biomarker or therapeutic target in gastritis therapy.
The present study aimed to investigate the role of microRNA-146a and its adapter proteins [interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6)] in the pathogenesis of ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized rats in association with the diet-induced obesity condition. Twenty male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: control with normal diet (ND), OVA-sensitized with normal diet (S + ND), high-fat diet (HFD), and OVA-sensitized with high-fat diet (S + HFD). All the animals were fed for 8 weeks with standard pelts or high-fat diet, and were then sensitized and challenged with OVA or saline for another 4 weeks. The tracheal responsiveness to methacholine, serum protein levels, and lipid profile levels was measured by the ELISA method. Moreover, the gene expression level of microRNA-146a (miR-146a) was measured in the lung tissue of the rats using the real-time PCR method. Maximum response to methacholin increased in the S + HFD group in compared with ND, S + ND, and HFD groups (P < 0.05 to P < 0.001). Moreover, in the S + HFD group the mRNA expression levels of miRNA-146a increased in the lung tissue (P < 0.001). In addition, the protein analysis results showed that IRAK1, TRAF6, NF-kB, and IL-1β protein levels were high in the S + HFD group compared to the ND and HFD groups; however, in compared with the S + ND group, only the IL-1β protein level was higher in the S + HFD group (P < 0.05). These results suggest that a defect in the NF-kB-miR-146a negative feedback loop may be involved in the pathogenesis of obesity associated with OVA-sensitized condition. © 2018 BioFactors, 45(1):75-84, 2019.
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a type of acute lung injury (ALI), which causes high morbidity and mortality. So far, effective clinical treatment of ARDS is still limited. Recently, miR-146b has been reported to play a key role in inflammation. In the present study, we evaluated the functional role of miR-146b in ARDS using the murine model of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI. The miR-146b expression could be induced by LPS stimulation, and miR-146b overexpression was required in the maintenance of body weight and survival of ALI mice; after miR-146b overexpression, LPS-induced lung injury, pulmonary inflammation, total cell and neutrophil counts, proinflammatory cytokines, and chemokines in bronchial alveolar lavage (BAL) fluid were significantly reduced. The promotive effect of LPS on lung permeability through increasing total protein, albumin and IgM in BAL fluid could be partially reversed by miR-146b overexpression. Moreover, in murine alveolar macrophages, miR-146b overexpression reduced LPS-induced TNF-α and interleukin (IL)-1β releasing. Taken together, we demonstrated that miR-146b overexpression could effectively improve the LPS-induced ALI; miR-146b is a promising target in ARDS treatment.
Diabetes induces neurovascular dysfunction leading to peripheral neuropathy. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) affect many biological processes and the development of diabetic peripheral neuropathy. In the present study, we investigated whether thymosin-β4 (Tβ4) ameliorates diabetic peripheral neuropathy and whether miR-146a mediates the effect of Tβ4 on improved neurovascular function. Male Type II diabetic BKS. Cg-m+/+Leprdb/J (db/db) mice at age 20 weeks were treated with Tβ4 for 8 consecutive weeks, and db/db mice treated with saline were used as a control group. Compared to non-diabetic mice, diabetic mice exhibited substantially reduced miR-146a expression, and increased IL-1R-associated kinase-1 (IRAK1), tumor necrosis factor (TNFR)-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) levels and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NFkB) activity in sciatic nerve tissues. Treatment of diabetic mice with Tβ4 significantly elevated miR-146a levels and overcame the effect of diabetes on these proteins. Tβ4 treatment substantially improved motor and sensory conduction velocity of the sciatic nerve, which was associated with improvements in sensory function. Tβ4 treatment significantly increased intraepidermal nerve fiber density and augmented local blood flow and the density of fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-dextran perfused vessels in the sciatic nerve tissue. In vitro, treatment of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and mouse dermal endothelial cells (MDEs) with Tβ4 significantly increased axonal outgrowth and capillary-like tube formation, whereas blocking miR-146a attenuated Tβ4-induced axonal outgrowth and capillary tube formation, respectively. Our data indicate that miR-146a may mediate Tβ4-induced neurovascular remodeling in diabetic mice, by suppressing pro-inflammatory signals.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a malignancy of mature B cells driven by B-cell receptor (BCR) signaling and activated primarily in the lymph node. The Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor ibrutinib effectively inhibits BCR-dependent proliferation and survival signals and has emerged as a breakthrough therapy for CLL. However, complete remissions are uncommon and are achieved only after years of continuous therapy. We hypothesized that other signaling pathways that sustain CLL cell survival are only partially inhibited by ibrutinib. In normal B cells, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling cooperates with BCR signaling to activate prosurvival NF-κB. Here, we show that an experimentally validated gene signature of TLR activation is overexpressed in lymph node-resident CLL cells compared with cells in the blood. Consistent with TLR activation, we detected phosphorylation of NF-κB, STAT1, and STAT3 in lymph node-resident CLL cells and in cells stimulated with CpG oligonucleotides in vitro. CpG promoted IRAK1 degradation, secretion of IL10, and extended survival of CLL cells in culture. CpG-induced TLR signaling was significantly inhibited by both an IRAK1/4 inhibitor and ibrutinib. Although inhibition of TLR signaling was incomplete with either drug, the combination achieved superior results, including more effective inhibition of TLR-mediated survival signaling. Our data suggest an important role for TLR signaling in CLL pathogenesis and in sustaining the viability of CLL cells during ibrutinib therapy. The combination of ibrutinib with a TLR pathway inhibitor could provide superior antitumor activity and should be investigated in clinical studies. SIGNIFICANCE: CLL relies on the concomitant cooperation of B-cell receptor and Toll-like receptor signaling; inhibition of both pathways is superior to inhibition of either pathway alone. GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT: http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/canres/79/2/360/F1.large.jpg.
IL-1, generally considered an amplifier of adaptive immune responses, has been proposed for use as adjuvant during immunization with weak immunogens. However, its effects on memory T cell function remain largely undefined. Using the murine model of acute viral infection, in this paper, we show that in addition to augmenting the size of the Ag-specific pool, IL-1 signals act directly on CD8 T cells to promote the quality of effector and memory responses. Ablation of IL-1R1 or MyD88 signaling in T cells led to functional impairment; both the ability to produce multiple cytokines on a per cell basis (polyfunctionality) and the potential for recall proliferation in response to antigenic restimulation were compromised. IL-1 supplementation during priming augmented the expansion of Ag-specific CD8 T cells through the MyD88-IRAK1/4 axis, resulting in a larger memory pool capable of robust secondary expansion in response to rechallange. Together, these findings demonstrate a critical role of the IL-1-MyD88 axis in programming the quantity and quality of memory CD8 T cell responses and support the notion that IL-1 supplementation may be exploited to enhance adoptive T cell therapies against cancers and chronic infections.
Polysaccharide from Phellinus igniarius (PPI) is known for its immune-regulating effect with low toxicity. Toll like receptor 4 (TLR4) is important in both innate and adaptive immune responses and considered to be a promising target for new immune adjuvants. In this study, PPI was investigated for its effect on activating TLR4 in RAW264.7 and peritoneal macrophages. The adjuvant potential of PPI was evaluated in OVA-immunized mice. The results showed PPI treatment significantly increased the secretion and the mRNA expression of both MyD88 dependent and TRIF dependent cytokines. IRAK-1, a key molecule on the downstream of MyD88, was polyubiquitinated while IRF-3, another key molecule on the downstream of TRIF, was phosphorylated obviously after the treatment of PPI. The phosphorylation of molecules involved in both NF-κB pathway and MAPK pathway were significantly up-regulated after PPI treatment. In addition, the effects of PPI on the macrophages almost completely disappeared after treating the cells with the TLR4 antagonist TAK-242. Further in vivo results showed PPI significantly increased the serum OVA-specific antibody and the OVA-specific spleen cell proliferation. Taken together, PPI can specifically stimulate TLR4 and activate both MyD88 and TRIF pathways. PPI has immune adjuvant activity and may become a new potential immune adjuvant.
Chronic inflammation contributes to obesity mediated metabolic disturbances, including insulin resistance. Obesity is associated with altered microbial load in metabolic tissues that can contribute to metabolic inflammation. Different bacterial components such as, LPS, peptidoglycans have been shown to underpin metabolic disturbances through interaction with host innate immune receptors. Activation of Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing protein 1 (Nod1) with specific peptidoglycan moieties promotes insulin resistance, inflammation and lipolysis in adipocytes. However, it was not clear how Nod1-mediated lipolysis and inflammation is linked. Here, we tested if Nod1-mediated lipolysis caused accumulation of lipid intermediates and promoted cell autonomous inflammation in adipocytes. We showed that Nod1-mediated lipolysis caused accumulation of diacylglycerol (DAG) and activation of PKCδ in 3T3-L1 adipocytes, which was prevented with a Nod1 inhibitor. Nod1-activated PKCδ caused downstream stimulation of IRAK1/4 and was associated with increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines such as, IL-1β, IL-18, IL-6, TNFα and MCP-1. Pharmacological inhibition or siRNA mediated knockdown of IRAK1/4 attenuated Nod1-mediated activation of NF-κB, JNK, and the expression of proinflammatory cytokines. These results reveal that Nod1-mediated lipolysis promoted accumulation of DAG, which engaged PKCδ and IRAK1/4 to augment inflammation in 3T3-L1 adipocytes.
The size of primary challenge with lipopolysaccharide induces changes in the innate immune cells phenotype between pro-inflammatory and pro-tolerant states when facing a secondary lipopolysaccharide challenge. To determine the molecular mechanisms governing this differential response, we propose a mathematical model for the interaction between three proteins involved in the immune cell decision making: IRAK-1, PI3K, and RelB. The mutual inhibition of IRAK-1 and PI3K in the model leads to bistable dynamics. By using the levels of RelB as indicative of strength of the immune responses, we connect the size of different primary lipopolysaccharide doses to the differential phenotypical outcomes following a secondary challenge. We further predict under what circumstances the primary LPS dose does not influence the response to a secondary challenge. Our results can be used to guide treatments for patients with either autoimmune disease or compromised immune system.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is one of the most common microvascular complications of diabetes mellitus and often results in chronic renal failure. Here, we found that Interleukin 1 receptor associated kinases (IRAK1) was up-regulated in kidney in both DN patients and high-fat diet (HFD)/streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice. In vivo, down regulation of IRAK1 ameliorated renal injury and function, with lower podocyte apoptosis, increased expression of Nephrin, attenuated thickness of the glomerular basement membrane and podocyte footprocess effacement. Furthermore, in vitro, down regulation of IRAK1 in podocytes treated with high glucose (HG), podocyte apoptosis and inflammatory cytokines were significantly decreased, but Nephrin increased. Meanwhile, apoptosis-related genes caspase-3/-9 were inhibited and phosphorylation levels of PI3K/Akt were dramatically down regulated. Thus, IRAK1 is one of the critical components involved in podocyte apoptosis in DN.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is the leading cause of chronic renal disease. Accumulating evidence suggested that oxidative stress and inflammatory processes are involved in the development of DN. In the present study, the DN model was established by injecting mice with STZ (180 mg*kg-1) intraperitoneally, and treated with EA (50, 100 and 150 mg*kg-1) and IRB (positive control) once daily by intragastric gavage. At the same time, rat kidney NRK-52E cells were cultured and incubated with EA and TAK-242 (inhibitor of TLR4) respectively before stimulating with LPS. The mental conditions, body weight, blood glucose, serum albumin (Alb), serum TNF-α, renal function, anti-oxidative enzymes, and protein expression of TLR4, IRAK4, TRAF6, IKKβ, NF-κb P65, HMGB1 in renal tissue were determined. Meanwhile, the proteins expression of TLR4, IRAK1 and NF-κBp65 in cells were further analyzed. The results showed that EA could improve the daily state and body weight; decrease the blood glucose, levels of TNF-α and serum creatinine; elevate the activities of antioxidant enzymes; ameliorate the renal pathology; inhibit the up regulation of expression of proteins TLR4, IRAK4, TRAF6, IKK-β, NF-κBp65 and HMGB1 in DN mice. These results suggested that EA ameliorated STZinduced oxidative renal injury by the inhibition of HMGB1-TLR4-NF-кB pathway.
Background: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disorder, characterized by an increased number of M1-like macrophages in the joints. Polyphyllin I (PPI), one of the main components in the Rhizoma of Paris polyphyllin, displays a selective inhibitory effect on various tumor cells. Here we sought to investigate the anti-rheumatoid arthritis effects and mechanisms of PPI on macrophages in vivo and in vitro. Materials and Methods:In vitro, primary bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) and peritoneal elucidated macrophages (PEMs) were stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and Interferon (IFN)-γ and then treated with PPI. We determined the degree of activation of IKKα/β and p65, two key mediators of the NF-κB-mediated inflammatory pathway, by measuring their phosphorylated forms by Western blot. The p65 nuclear localization was detected by immunofluorescent staining. Further, a NF-κB-linked luciferase reporter plasmid, as well as those expressing key mediators of the Toll-like receptor 4 pathway, such as myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MYD88), interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) associated kinase (IRAK)-1, TNF receptor associated factors (TRAF)-6, Transforming growth factor-b-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) and p65, were used to identify the mechanism by which PPI achieves its inhibitory effects on macrophage-mediated inflammation. Moreover, a NF-κB inhibitor, p65-targeted siRNAs, and a p65 plasmid were further used to validate the anti-inflammatory mechanism of PPI. In vivo, PPI (1 mg/kg) was administered intragastrically one time a day for 7 weeks starting on the 42nd day after the first immunization with collagen in a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model. Micro-computed Tomography scanning, histological examination, F4/80 and iNOS double immunofluorescent staining and CD4 immunohistochemical staining were performed to determine the effect of PPI treatment on joint structure and inflammation in this model. Results: PPI reduced the inflammatory cytokines production of PEMs stimulated by LPS/IFN-γ, inhibited the phosphorylation of IKKα/β and p65, and prevented p65 nuclear localization. The NF-κB luciferase assay showed that the target of PPI was closely related to the NF-κB pathway. Moreover, NF-κB inhibition, siRNA-mediated knockdown of p65, and p65 overexpression eliminated PPI's inhibitory effect. In addition, PPI attenuated the bone erosion and synovitis, as well as M1-like macrophage and T cell infiltration, in the ankle joint of the CIA model. Conclusion: PPI demonstrated effective amelioration of synovial inflammation in the ankle joint of CIA mice while suppressing NF-κB-mediated production of pro-inflammatory effectors in activated macrophages.
Calcium sensing receptor (CaSR) activates the NLRP3 inflammasome with consequences on homeostatic responses. However, little is known about how this process is orchestrated. Since proteolysis of critical regulators of NLRP3 inflammasome contribute to its activation, we aimed to understand how CaSR stimulates proteolytic pathways to activate the NLRP3 inflammasome. We found that proteasome and lysosome-dependent mechanisms are activated by CaSR to promote the degradation of important regulators of NLRP inflammasome. The pathway involves Gαq/PLC/PKC and Gβγ/PI3K signaling cascades and IRAK1 ubiquitination. In addition, CaSR stimulates Hsp70 expression activating a chaperone-assisted protein degradation that dictates the fate of ASC, NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family protein 3), IRAK1 and TRAF6 proteins, turning on the NLRP3 inflammasome. In response to CaSR signaling, these proteins are degraded through the combination of CUPS (chaperone-assisted ubiquitin proteasome pathway) and CAEMI (chaperone-assisted endosomal microautophagy) systems being integrated by autophagosomes (chaperone-assisted macroautophagy, CAMA), as indicated by LC3-II, a classical marker for autophagy, that is induced in the process. Furthermore, CaSR triggers the proteolytic cleavage of pro-IL-1β (IL-1β, 31 kDa) into mature IL-1β (IL-1β, 17 kDa), via the proteasome. Taken together, our results indicate that CaSR promotes NLRP3 inflammasome activation and proteolytic maturation of IL-1β by inducing CUPS and CAEMI, chaperone-assisted degradation pathways. Overall, these results support the inclusion of CaSR as an activator of homeostasis-altering molecular processes.
This experiment aimed to explore whether glutamate (Glu) had beneficial effects on intestinal injury caused by Escherichia coli LPS challenge via regulating mTOR, TLRs, as well as NODs signaling pathways. Twenty-four piglets were allotted to 4 treatments including: (1) control group; (2) LPS group; (3) LPS + 1.0% Glu group; (4) LPS + 2.0% Glu group. Supplementation with Glu increased jejunal villus height/crypt depth ratio, ileal activities of lactase, maltase and sucrase, and RNA/DNA ratio and protein abundance of claudin-1 in jejunum and ileum. In addition, the piglets fed Glu diets had higher phosphorylated mTOR (Ser2448)/total mTOR ratio in jejunum and ileum. Moreover, Glu decreased TNF-α concentration in plasma. Supplementation with Glu also decreased mRNA abundance of jejunal TLR4, MyD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, NOD2 and increased mRNA abundance of ileal Tollip. These results indicate that Glu supplementation may be closely related to maintaining mTOR and inhibiting TLR4 and NOD signaling pathways, and concomitant improvement of intestinal integrity under an inflammatory condition.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a heterogeneous multisystem autoimmune disease with unknown etiology. Numerous studies have indicated that the disease heterogeneity implies various genetic abnormalities. Considering that SSc is characterized by a strong sex bias and that the position of IRAK1 gene is on the X chromosome, we assume that variations in IRAK1 gene could explain female predominance of SSc. It was previously described that miR-146a has a role in 'fine-tuning' regulation of the TLR/NF-kB signaling pathway through down-regulation of IRAK1 gene. The aim of the present study was to analyze both variants and expression level of IRAK1 and miR-146a genes in terms of susceptibility to SSc and clinical presentation of SSc patients. We analyzed variants IRAK1 rs3027898 C > A and miR-146a rs2910164 C > G in 102 SSc patients and 66 healthy subjects. Genotyping was performed by Sanger sequencing. Expression level of IRAK1 mRNA and miR-146a in PBMCs was performed in subset of 50 patients and 13 healthy controls by RT-qPCR. Our results showed that there was no association between IRAK1 rs3027898 and the risk of SSc in women. However, the analysis of genotype distribution of the mir-146a rs2910164 C > G variant indicated that CC genotype shows strong association with lung fibrosis and active form of the disease. When expression level of IRAK1 gene was analyzed, we detected significant downregulation of IRAK1 mRNA in SSc patients compared to controls, as well as in male compared to female patients, in patients with ACAs autoantibodies and in patients with severe skin involvement. Regarding the expression level of miR-146a, we have found significantly reduced expression in SSc patients, in patients with skin involvement and in male SSc patients. The results from this study indicate that expression of IRAK1 gene could explain phenotypic heterogeneity of SSc and may be involved in the pathogenesis of SSc due to its differential expression in certain subgroups. Our results also suggested that miR-146a rs2910164 CC genotype may be predisposing factor for development lung fibrosis and more progressive form of SSc. Results from relative expression analysis of miR-146a demonstrated that changes in the level of this miRNA may have an impact on development and clinical course of SSc.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAK1, IRAK2, IRAK3 [IRAK-M], and IRAK4) are serine-threonine kinases involved in toll-like receptor and interleukin-1 signaling pathways, through which they regulate innate immunity and inflammation. Evidence exists that IRAKs play key roles in the pathophysiologies of cancers, and metabolic and inflammatory diseases, and that IRAK inhibition has potential therapeutic benefits. Molecules capable of selectively interfering with IRAK function and expression have been reported, paving the way for the clinical evaluation of IRAK inhibition. Herein, we focus on IRAK1, review its structure and physiological roles, and summarize emerging data for IRAK1 inhibitors in preclinical and clinical studies.
Inflammatory β-cell failure contributes to type 1 and type 2 diabetes pathogenesis. Pro-inflammatory cytokines cause β-cell dysfunction and apoptosis, and lysine deacetylase inhibitors (KDACi) prevent β-cell failure in vitro and in vivo, in part by reducing NF-κB transcriptional activity. We investigated the hypothesis that the protective effect of KDACi involves transcriptional regulation of microRNAs (miRs), potential new targets in diabetes treatment. Insulin-producing INS1 cells were cultured with or without the broad-spectrum KDACi Givinostat, prior to exposure to the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and IFN-γ for 6 h or 24 h, and miR expression was profiled with miR array. Thirteen miRs (miR-7a-2-3p, miR-29c-3p, miR-96-5p, miR-101a-3p, miR-140-5p, miR-146a-5p, miR-146b-5p, miR-340-5p, miR-384-5p, miR-455-5p, miR-466b-2-3p, miR-652-5p, and miR-3584-5p) were regulated by both cytokines and Givinostat, and nine were examined by qRT-PCR. miR-146a-5p was strongly regulated by cytokines and KDACi and was analyzed further. miR-146a-5p expression was induced by cytokines in rat and human islets. Cytokine-induced miR-146a-5p expression was specific for INS1 and β-TC3 cells, whereas α-TC1 cells exhibited a higher basal expression. Transfection of INS1 cells with miR-146a-5p reduced cytokine signaling, including the activity of NF-κB and iNOS promoters, as well as NO production and protein levels of iNOS and its own direct targets TNF receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). miR-146a-5p was elevated in the pancreas of diabetes-prone BB-DP rats at diabetes onset, suggesting that miR-146a-5p could play a role in type 1 diabetes development. The miR array of cytokine-exposed INS1 cells rescued by KDACi revealed several other miRs potentially involved in cytokine-induced β-cell apoptosis, demonstrating the strength of this approach.
The E3 ubiquitin ligase Pellino 1 (Peli1) is a microglia-specific mediator of autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Its role in neurotropic flavivirus infection is largely unknown. Here, we report that mice deficient in Peli1 (Peli1-/-) were more resistant to lethal West Nile virus (WNV) infection and exhibited reduced viral loads in tissues and attenuated brain inflammation. Peli1 mediates chemokine and proinflammatory cytokine production in microglia and promotes T cell and macrophage infiltration into the CNS. Unexpectedly, Peli1 was required for WNV entry and replication in mouse macrophages and mouse and human neurons and microglia. It was also highly expressed on WNV-infected neurons and adjacent inflammatory cells from postmortem patients who died of acute WNV encephalitis. WNV passaged in Peli1-/- macrophages or neurons induced a lower viral load and impaired activation in WT microglia and thereby reduced lethality in mice. Smaducin-6, which blocks interactions between Peli1 and IRAK1, RIP1, and IKKε, did not inhibit WNV-triggered microglia activation. Collectively, our findings suggest a nonimmune regulatory role for Peli1 in promoting microglia activation during WNV infection and identify a potentially novel host factor for flavivirus cell entry and replication.
An appropriate immune response requires a tight balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory mechanisms. IL-10 is induced at late time-points during acute inflammatory conditions triggered by TLR-dependent recognition of infectious agents and is involved in setting this balance, operating as a negative regulator of the TLR-dependent signaling pathway. We identified miR-125a~99b~let-7e as an evolutionary conserved microRNA cluster late-induced in human monocytes exposed to the TLR4 agonist LPS as an effect of this IL-10-dependent regulatory loop. We demonstrated that microRNAs generated by this cluster perform a pervasive regulation of the TLR signaling pathway by direct targeting receptors (TLR4, CD14), signaling molecules (IRAK1), and effector cytokines (TNFα, IL-6, CCL3, CCL7, CXCL8). Modulation of miR-125a~99b~let-7e cluster influenced the production of proinflammatory cytokines in response to LPS and the IL-10-mediated tolerance to LPS, thus identifying this gene as a previously unrecognized major regulatory element of the inflammatory response and endotoxin tolerance.
Increasing evidence suggests that an enriched environment (EE) ameliorates cognitive impairment by promoting repair of brain damage. However, the mechanisms by which this occurs have not been determined. To address this issue, we investigated whether an EE enhanced the capability of endogenous bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (BM-MSCs) to prevent hippocampal damage due to diabetes by focusing on miRNA carried in BM-MSC-derived exosomes. In diabetic streptozotocin (STZ) rats housed in an EE (STZ/EE), cognitive impairment was significantly reduced, and both neuronal and astroglial damage in the hippocampus was alleviated compared with STZ rats housed in conventional cages (STZ/CC). BM-MSCs isolated from STZ/CC rats had functional and morphological abnormalities that were not detected in STZ/EE BM-MSCs. The miR-146a levels in exosomes in conditioned medium of cultured BM-MSCs and serum from STZ/CC rats were decreased compared with non-diabetic rats, and the level was restored in STZ/EE rats. Thus, the data suggest that increased levels of miR-146a in sera were derived from endogenous BM-MSCs in STZ/EE rats. To examine the possibility that increased miR-146a in serum may exert anti-inflammatory effects on astrocytes in diabetic rats, astrocytes transfected with miR-146a were stimulated with advanced glycation end products (AGEs) to mimic diabetic conditions. The expression of IRAK1, NF-κB, and tumor necrosis factor-α was significantly higher in AGE-stimulated astrocytes, and these factors were decreased in miR-146a-transfected astrocytes. These results suggested that EEs stimulate up-regulation of exosomal miR-146a secretion by endogenous BM-MSCs, which exerts anti-inflammatory effects on damaged astrocytes and prevents diabetes-induced cognitive impairment.
BACKGROUND: Overactivated microglial cells exhibit chronic inflammatory response and can lead to the continuous production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, perpetuating inflammation, and ultimately resulting in neuronal injury. 1,2,3,4,6-Penta-O-Galloyl-β-d-Glucose (PGG), which is a naturally occurring polyphenolic compound, has exhibited anti-inflammatory effect through the inhibition of many cytokines in different experimental models, but its effect on activated microglia cells was never described. In the present study, we investigated PGG effect in proteins involved in the NFƙB and MAPK signaling pathways, which play a central role in inflammation through their ability to induce transcription of pro-inflammatory genes.METHODS: PCR arrays and RT-PCR with individual primers were used to determine the effect of PGG on mRNA expression of genes involved in NFƙB and MAPK signaling pathways. Western blots were performed to confirm PCR results.RESULTS: The data obtained showed that PGG modulated the expression of 5 genes from the NFƙB (BIRC3, CHUK, IRAK1, NFƙB1, NOD1) and 2 genes from MAPK signaling pathway (CDK2 and MYC) when tested in RT-PCR assays. Western blots confirmed the PCR results at the protein level, showing that PGG attenuated the expression of total and phosphorylated proteins (CDK2, CHUK, IRAK1, and NFƙB1) involved in NFƙB and MAPK signaling.CONCLUSION: These findings show that PGG could modulate the expression of genes and proteins involved in the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in microglia cells.
BACKGROUND: Dingchuan tang (asthma-relieving decoction), a formula of nine herbs, has been used for treating respiratory inflammatory diseases for >400 years in the People's Republic of China. However, the mechanisms underlying the anti-inflammatory action of dingchuan tang is not fully understood. This study aims to investigate the effects of Dingchuan tang essential oil (DCEO) on inflammatory mediators and the underlying mechanism of action.MATERIALS AND METHODS: DCEO was extracted by steam distillation. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages were used as the cell model. Production of nitric oxide (NO) was determined by the Griess test. Protein secretion and mRNA levels of inflammatory mediators were measured by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), respectively. Protein levels were examined by Western blot. Nuclear localization of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) was detected using immunofluorescence analyses.RESULTS: DCEO significantly reduced LPS-triggered production of NO and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and decreased protein and mRNA levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). LPS induced upregulation of protein and mRNA levels of cytokines (interleukin-1β [IL-1β], interleukin-6 [IL-6], tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]), and chemokines (monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 [MCP-1], chemokine [C-C motif] ligand 5 [CCL-5], and macrophage inflammatory protein [MIP]-1α) were suppressed by DCEO treatment. Phosphorylation and nuclear protein levels of transcription factors (activator protein-1 [AP-1], NF-κB, interferon regulatory factor 3 [IRF3]) were decreased by DCEO. Protein levels of phosphorylated IκB-α, IκB kinase α/β (IKKα/β), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), protein kinase B (Akt), TGF β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38), and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) were lowered by DCEO. Moreover, degradation of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and IRAK4 induced by LPS was inhibited by DCEO treatment.CONCLUSION: Suppression of the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)/NF-κB, IRAK/AP-1 and TBK1/IRF3 pathways was associated with the inhibitory effects of DCEO on inflammatory mediators in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages. This study provides a pharmacological justification for the use of dingchuan tang in managing inflammatory disorders.
Myocardial dysfunction is a major manifestation of sepsis and closely associated with the increased mortality. MicroRNA-146 is one of the most important microRNAs identified as a potent negative regulator in innate immune and inflammatory responses induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We aimed to identify the role and potential regulatory mechanism of miR-146a in sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction with the induction of ErbB4 signaling. H9C2 cells were treated with LPS to induce sepsis, and miR-146a overexpression significantly increased the cell viability, reduced the apoptosis and ROS level, and attenuated the release of proinflammatory cytokines including TNF-α and IL-1β. Levels of ErbB4, p-NF-κB, NF-κB, TRAF6, IRAK1, caspase 3, Bcl-2, and Bax were measured by Western blot. The overexpression of miR-146a significantly increased the ErbB4 expression, decreased the expression of TRAF6, IRAK1, caspase 3, and the phosphorylation level of NF-κB, and also increased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, suggesting the inhibition of inflammation and apoptosis. The protective effects were all abolished by the use of siErbB4. In conclusion, our results demonstrated that the overexpression of miR-146a mitigates myocardial injury by negatively regulating NF-κB activation and inflammatory cytokine production via targeting ErbB4 in LPS-induced sepsis.
Polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL) are the first responders upon pathogen invasion and hence play an important role in inflammatory and immune responses. Rumen-protected methionine (MET) and choline (CHOL) during the peripartal period affect the immune response and inflammatory status in dairy cows to different extents. We aimed to examine the effect of MET and CHOL supply on expression of genes regulating key PMNL functions and associations with whole-blood immune challenge. Thirty multiparous Holstein cows from a larger cohort randomly assigned from -21 to 30 d relative to parturition to a basal control (CON) diet, CON plus MET at a rate of 0.08% of dry matter, or CON plus CHOL at 60 g/d were used. Blood was sampled at -10, 7, and 30 d relative to parturition for inflammatory biomarker analyses and PMNL isolation. Neutrophil and monocyte phagocytosis and oxidative burst in vitro were assessed in whole blood at 1, 7, and 28 d. Although neutrophil and monocyte phagocytosis did not differ, oxidative burst in neutrophils and monocytes was greater in MET-supplemented cows relative to CON cows. Compared with CON, PMNL adhesion and migration-related genes (ITGAM, ITGB2, ITGA4) were downregulated in response to MET and CHOL. Expression of CADM1 and SELL was also lower in MET-supplemented cows compared with CON cows but not in CHOL cows. In contrast, compared with CON cows, the expression of ICAM1 was lower in CHOL but not MET cows. Similar to adhesion and migration-related genes, cows receiving MET- or CHOL-supplemented diets had lower expression of inflammation-related genes (IL1β, IL10RA, NFKB1, STAT3, TLR2). However, expression of IRAK1 and TLR4 was lower in MET- but not CHOL-supplemented cows. Plasma taurine concentration was greater in MET cows compared with CHOL and CON cows, suggesting a better redox status in plasma. In agreement with plasma taurine, oxidative stress-related genes (CBS, CTH, GPX1, GSS, SOD2) in PMNL were lower in response to MET and to CHOL supply. Overall, immunometabolic gene expression profile and blood biomarker analyses suggest an overall better redox status in PMNL during the transition period in response to MET and CHOL supply. These adaptations in PMNL might be beneficial for mounting a better bactericidal response upon challenge.
Since the start of Afghanistan combat operations in 2001, there has been an increase in complaints of respiratory illnesses in deployed soldiers with no previous history of lung disorders. It is postulated that deployment-related respiratory illnesses are the result of inhalation of desert particulate matter (PM) potentially acting in combination with exposure to other pro-inflammatory compounds. Why some, but not all, soldiers develop respiratory diseases remains unclear. Our goal was to investigate if human airway epithelial cells primed with IL-13, a type 2 inflammatory cytokine, demonstrate stronger pro-inflammatory responses to Afghanistan desert PM (APM). Primary human brushed bronchial epithelial cells from non-deployed, healthy subjects were exposed to APM, both with and without IL-13 pretreatment. APM exposure in conjunction with IL-13 resulted in significantly increased expression of IL-8, a pro-inflammatory cytokine involved in neutrophil recruitment and activation. Furthermore, expression of TLR2 mRNA was increased after combined IL-13 and APM exposure. siRNA-mediated TLR2 knockdown dampened IL-8 production after exposure to APM with IL-13. APM with IL-13 treatment increased IRAK-1 (a downstream signaling molecule of TLR2 signaling) activation, while IRAK-1 knockdown effectively eliminated the IL-8 response to APM and IL-13. Our data suggest that APM exposure may promote neutrophilic inflammation in airways with a type 2 cytokine milieu.
INTRODUCTION: To analyze the microRNA expression of tumor necrosi factor α (TNF-α) stimulated mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and exosomes from their culture supernatant.MATERIAL AND METHODS: TNF-α (20 ng/ml) was used to stimulate MSCs, which were then regarded as TNF-α cells (TC), while unstimulated cells were the normal control cells (NCC). MSCs and their culture supernatant were harvested after 48 h. Subsequently, exosomes were isolated from culture supernatants with ExoQuick-TC and were divided into two groups, TNF-α exosomes (TE) and normal control exosomes (NCE). Then, the microRNAs were measured by high-throughput sequencing and the results were differentially analyzed. Finally, the correlation of the target genes corresponding to differently expressed microRNAs was analyzed by gene ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway analysis.RESULTS: High-throughput sequencing showed that the cellular compartment (TC vs. NCC) had 280 microRNAs. miR-146a-5p was a uniquely up-regulated microRNA (p < 0.001) and the most significantly down-regulated microRNA among the 279 microRNAs included was miR-150-5p (p < 0.001). There were 180 differentially expressed microRNAs in the exosome compartment (TE vs. NCE), where miR-146-5p (p < 0.001) was one of 176 upregulated microRNAs and miR-203b-5p (p < 0.001) was one of 4 downregulated microRNAs. Coincidentally, bioinformatics analysis showed that IRAK1 was a critical target gene of miR-146-5p related to the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway.CONCLUSIONS: In contrast with the control group, there were significantly differentially expressed microRNAs in both MSCs and exosomes. Interestingly, miR-146a-5p was up-regulated in both comparative groups, and its target gene IRAK1 plays a crucial part in the TLR signaling pathway. These investigations demonstrate a new direction for subsequent inflammation mechanistic studies.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic and multisystemic autoimmune disease. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is associated with the susceptibility of SLE in humans and paeoniflorin has recently been reported to exhibit immunosuppressive properties. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of paeoniflorin on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-triggered macrophage activation and and its role in LPS-induced IRAK1-nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling pathways. Peritoneal macrophages from lupus-prone MRL/lpr mice and ICR mice were isolated, prepared and cultured. Cells were treated with LPS alone or LPS with paeoniflorin, and macrophage proliferation was analyzed using the CCK8 assay. The expression of IRAK1 in cells was analyzed by immunofluorescence staining. The level of gene expression of IRAK1, NF-κB, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) was measured by RT-PCR, and TNF-α, IL-6 levels in the cell supernatant were determined by ELISA. The protein expression of IRAK1 and downstream molecules tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase (IKK), NF-kappa-B inhibitor alpha (IKBα), and NF-κB was detected by Western-blot analysis. Paeoniflorin was found to decrease the phosphorylation of IRAK1 and its downstream proteins induced by LPS and inhibit the expression of TNF-α and IL-6. Taken together, the data obtained indicate that paeoniflorin inhibits LPS-induced cell activation by inhibiting the IRAK1-NF-κB pathway in MRL/lpr mouse macrophages. Therefore, paeoniflorin may be a potential therapy for SLE.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6)-type cytokines play important roles in liver (patho-)biology. For instance, they regulate the acute phase response to inflammatory signals and are involved in hepatocarcinogenesis. Much is known about the regulation of protein-coding genes by cytokines whereas their effects on the miRNome is less well understood. We performed a microarray screen to identify microRNAs (miRNAs) in human hepatocytes which are modulated by IL-6-type cytokines. Using samples of 2 donors, 27 and 68 miRNAs (out of 1,733) were found to be differentially expressed upon stimulation with hyper-IL-6 (HIL-6) for up to 72 h, with an overlap of 15 commonly regulated miRNAs. qPCR validation revealed that miR-146b-5p was also consistently up-regulated in hepatocytes derived from 2 other donors. Interestingly, miR-146b-5p (but not miR-146a-5p) was induced by IL-6-type cytokines (HIL-6 and OSM) in non-transformed liver-derived PH5CH8 and THLE2 cells and in Huh-7 hepatoma cells, but not in HepG2 or Hep3B hepatoma cells. We did not find evidence for a differential regulation of miR-146b-5p expression by promoter methylation, also when analyzing the TCGA data set on liver cancer samples. Inducible overexpression of miR-146b-5p in PH5CH8 cells followed by RNA-Seq analysis revealed effects on multiple mRNAs, including those encoding IRAK1 and TRAF6 crucial for Toll-like receptor signaling. Indeed, LPS-mediated signaling was attenuated upon overexpression of miR-146b-5p, suggesting a regulatory loop to modulate inflammatory signaling in hepatocytes. Further validation experiments suggest DNAJC6, MAGEE1, MPHOSPH6, PPP2R1B, SLC10A3, SNRNP27, and TIMM17B to be novel targets for miR-146b-5p (and miR-146a-5p).
IL-27 is a cytokine exerting pleiotropic immunomodulatory effects on a broad spectrum of immune cells. Optimal IL-27 production downstream of TLR3/4 ligand stimulation relies on autocrine type I IFN signaling, defining a first and second phase in IL-27 production. This work shows that IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) limits TLR3/4- and IFNAR-induced IL-27 production. At the mechanistic level, we identified IRAK1 as a novel regulator of STAT1, IRF1, and IRF9. We found hyperactivation of STAT1 together with increased nuclear levels of IRF1 and IRF9 in IRAK1-deficient murine macrophages compared with control cells following stimulation with LPS and poly(I:C). IRAK1-deficient human microglial cells showed higher basal levels of STAT1 and STAT2 compared with control cells. Blocking the kinase activity of TBK1/IKKε in IRAK1 knockdown human microglial cells reduced the high basal levels of STAT1/2, uncovering a TBK1/IKKε kinase-dependent mechanism controlling basal levels of STAT1/2. Stimulating IRAK1 knockdown human microglial cells with IFN-β led to increased IL-27p28 expression compared with control cells. In IRAK1-deficient murine macrophages, increased IL-27 levels were detected by ELISA following IFN-β stimulation compared with control macrophages together with increased nuclear levels of p-STAT1, IRF1, and IRF9. Treatment of wild-type and IRAK1-deficient murine macrophages with fludarabine similarly reduced TLR3/4-induced IL-27 cytokine levels. To our knowledge, this work represents the first report placing IRAK1 in the IFNAR pathway and identifies IRAK1 as an important regulator of STAT1, controlling IL-27 production downstream of TLR3/4 and IFNAR signaling pathways.
PURPOSE: Waldenström's macroglobulinemia is an incurable lymphoproliferative disorder driven by an L265P mutation in the myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MYD88), which activates downstream NF-κB signaling through the Myddosome. As this pathway depends in part on activity of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs)-1 and -4, we sought to evaluate the potential of the IRAK1/4 inhibitor R191 in preclinical models.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Patient-derived cell lines and primary samples were used in both in vitro and in vivo experiments to model Waldenström's macroglobulinemia and its response to IRAK1/4 inhibitors.RESULTS: R191 induced a dose- and time-dependent reduction in viability of BCWM.1 and MWCL-1 Waldenström's cell lines, and suppressed activation of IRAK1/4. This was associated with cell-cycle arrest at G0-G1, reduced levels of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6, and induction of apoptosis in cell lines and primary patient samples. Further downstream, R191 exposure led to reduced activation of NF-κB, and of protein kinase B/Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin signaling, whereas expression of a constitutively active Akt mutant induced R191 resistance. Gene expression profiling and gene set enrichment analysis revealed a signature consistent with inhibition of c-Myc and activation of the endoplasmic reticulum stress response. In both subcutaneous and systemic murine models of Waldenström's, R191 showed antitumor activity. Finally, the activity of R191 was enhanced when it was combined with novel chemotherapeutics such as bortezomib, afuresertib, and ibrutinib.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these data support the translation of R191 as an approach to target IRAK1/4 to the clinic for patients with Waldenström's macroglobulinemia.
Interleukin-1 receptor (IL1R)-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) is a central regulator of innate immune signaling, controlling IL1R and Toll-like receptor (TLR)-mediated responses and containing both scaffolding and kinase activities. Humans deficient in IRAK4 activity have autosomal recessive primary immune deficiency (PID). Here, we characterized the molecular mechanism of dysfunction of two IRAK4 PID variants, G298D and the compound variant R12C (R12C/R391H/T458I). Using these variants and the kinase-inactive D329A variant to delineate the contributions of IRAK4's scaffolding and kinase activities to IL1R signaling, we found that the G298D variant is kinase-inactive and expressed at extremely low levels, acting functionally as a null mutation. The R12C compound variant possessed WT kinase activity, but could not interact with myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88) and IRAK1, causing impairment of IL-1-induced signaling and cytokine production. Quantitation of IL-1 signaling in IRAK4-deficient cells complemented with either WT or the R12C or D329A variant indicated that the loss of MyD88 interaction had a greater impact on IL-1-induced signaling and cytokine expression than the loss of IRAK4 kinase activity. Importantly, kinase-inactive IRAK4 exhibited a greater association with MyD88 and a weaker association with IRAK1 in IRAK4-deficient cells expressing kinase-inactive IRAK4 and in primary cells treated with a selective IRAK4 inhibitor. Loss of IRAK4 kinase activity only partially inhibited IL-1-induced cytokine and NF-κB signaling. Therefore, the IRAK4-MyD88 scaffolding function is essential for IL-1 signaling, but IRAK4 kinase activity can control IL-1 signal strength by modulating the association of IRAK4, MyD88, and IRAK1.
Adiponectin, a hormone produced by adipose tissue, is very abundant in plasma, and its anti- and pro-inflammatory effects are reported. However, the mechanisms of these pro- and anti-inflammatory effects are not fully defined. Herein, we evaluated the dual inflammatory response mechanism of adiponectin in macrophages. Short-term globular adiponectin (gAd) treatment induced IκBα degradation, NF-κB nuclear translocation, and TNF-α production in RAW 264.7 cells. Polymyxin B pretreatment did not block gAd-induced IκBα degradation, and heated gAd was unable to degrade IκBα, suggesting that the effects of gAd were not due to endotoxin contamination. gAd activated IKK and Akt, and inhibition of either IKK or Akt by dominant-negative IKKβ (DN-IKKβ) or DN-Akt overexpression blocked gAd-induced IκBα degradation, suggesting that short-term incubation with gAd mediates inflammatory responses by activating the IκB/NF-κB and PI3K/Akt pathways. Contrastingly, long-term stimulation with gAd induced, upon subsequent stimulation, tolerance to gAd, lipopolysaccharide, and CpG-oligodeoxynucleotide, which is associated with gAd-induced downregulation of IL-receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) due to IRAK-1 transcriptional repression. Conclusively, our findings demonstrate that the pro- and anti-inflammatory responses to gAd in innate immune cells are time-dependent, and mediated by the activation of the IκB/NF-κB pathway, and IRAK-1 downregulation, respectively.
The inflammatory response is essential for eradication of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) presenting microbial invaders but requires exquisite regulation to prevent detrimental vascular inflammation. Endothelial cells play active roles in both the initiation of inflammation, through the detection of LPS by Toll-like Receptor 4 (TLR4), and the resolution of inflammation, through the actions of the receptor tyrosine kinase, Tie2. The process by which Tie2 attenuates LPS-TLR4 driven inflammation is poorly understood. To investigate the effects of Tie2 on TLR4 signalling, Nf-κB activation was monitored in cells expressing Tie2 mutants harboring tyrosine (Y) to phenylalanine (F) substitutions in the cytoplasmic domain. Tie2 attenuated LPS induced Nf-κB activation in a manner requiring Tie2 kinase activation, the carboxy-terminal tyrosine residue Y1100 and downstream Erk1/2 signalling. Tyrosine 1100 was also required for the Tie2 dependent decrease in expression of the TLR4 signalling proteins, TRAF6 and IRAK1 and stabilization of the Nf-κB inhibitor, IκBα. In contrast, upregulation of known TLR4 antagonist miRNA-146b-5p required all three tyrosine phosphorylation sites in Tie2. Finally, we confirmed in an in vivo model that activation of Tie2 signalling reduces LPS mediated inflammation. Our results show that Y1100 initiated Erk1/2 signalling is essential for the anti-inflammatory effect of Tie2 on TLR4 mediated inflammation.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) form part of the host innate immune system, in which they act as sensors of microbial and endogenous danger signals. Upon TLR activation, the intracellular Toll/interleukin-1 receptor domains of TLR dimers initiate oligomerization of a multiprotein signaling platform comprising myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88) and members of the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) family. Formation of this myddosome complex initiates signal transduction pathways, leading to the activation of transcription factors and the production of inflammatory cytokines. To date, little is known about the assembly and disassembly of the myddosome and about the mechanisms by which these complexes mediate multiple downstream signaling pathways. Here, we isolated myddosome complexes from whole-cell lysates of TLR-activated primary mouse macrophages and from IRAK reporter macrophages to examine the kinetics of myddosome assembly and disassembly. Using a selective inhibitor of IRAK4's kinase activity, we found that whereas TLR cytokine responses were ablated, myddosome formation was stabilized in the absence of IRAK4's kinase activity. Of note, IRAK4 inhibition had only a minimal effect on NF-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling. In summary, our results indicate that IRAK4 has a critical scaffold function in myddosome formation and that its kinase activity is dispensable for myddosome assembly and activation of the NF-κB and MAPK pathways but is essential for MyD88-dependent production of inflammatory cytokines. Our findings suggest that the scaffold function of IRAK4 may be an attractive target for treating inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.
AIMS: Oxidative stress associated with a proinflammatory state occurs in endothelial dysfunction, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, and diabetes. The NADPH oxidase (Nox) family of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generating enzymes is implicated in these processes, yet little information regarding the role of Nox5 is available. Our aim was to investigate the role of Nox5 in promoting renal inflammation and identify mechanisms regulating its activity.RESULTS: Mice with podocyte-specific Nox5 (Nox5pod+) expression demonstrated greater glomerular inflammation and increased expression of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and proinflammatory cytokines. In a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) model of acute kidney injury, Nox5pod+ and control littermates exhibited increased TLR and Nox1 expression. Compared with control littermates, Nox5pod+ animals developed greater glomerular inflammation and ROS production. Immortalized human podocytes (hPODs) incubated with LPS demonstrated TLR induction, increased Nox5 expression, and enhanced ROS production. Inhibition of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAK)-1 and -4 that lie downstream of TLR inhibited LPS-induced ROS production. Interaction between IRAK1 and Nox5 was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation. Furthermore, LPS treatment of hPODs resulted in phosphorylation of threonine residue(s) in Nox5 that was attenuated by an IRAK1/4 inhibitor. Innovation and Conclusion: These results are the first to demonstrate that Nox5 is a downstream target of the TLR pathway and that Nox5-derived ROS may be modulated by IRAK1/4 activity. Nox5-derived ROS in podocytes can promote a proinflammatory state in the kidney via induction of cytokine expression and upregulation of TLRs leading to a feed-forward loop in which TLR activation enhances Nox5-mediated ROS production.
Therapeutic proteins can induce immune responses that affect their safety and efficacy. Product aggregates and innate immune response modulating impurities (IIRMI) are risk factors of product immunogenicity. In this study, we use Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIG), Avastin, and Human Serum Albumin (HSA) to explore whether increased aggregates activate innate immune cells or modify the response to IIRMI. We show that increased aggregates (shaken or stirred) in IVIG and Avastin, but not HSA, induced activation of MAPKs (pp38, pERK and pJNK) and transcription of immune-related genes including IL8, IL6, IL1β, CSF1, CCL2, CCL7, CCL3, CCL24, CXCL2, IRAK1, EGR2, CEBPβ, PPARg and TNFSF15 in human PBMC. The immunomodulatory effect was primarily mediated by FcγR, but not by TLR. Interestingly, increased aggregates in IVIG or Avastin magnified innate immune responses to TLR2/4 agonists, but diminished responses to TLR3/9 agonists. This study shows that IIRMI and aggregates can modify the activity of immune cells potentially modifying the milieu where the products are delivered highlighting the complex interplay of different impurities on product immunogenicity risk. Further, we show that aggregates could modify the sensitivity of PBMC-based assays designed to detect IIRMI. Understanding and managing immunogenicity risk is a critical component of product development and regulation.
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in microRNA-146a (miRNA-146a) can be associated with the development of immune-system dysfunctions.The aim of this work is to correlate SNPs of miRNA-146a and its target gene, IRAK1, with susceptibility, clinical manifestations, and diseases progression in patients with systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Genotyping for miRNA-146a (rs2910164) and its target gene IRAK1 (rs3027898) was performed using real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in 80 patients with SLE and 70 patients with MS, as well as 120 healthy control individuals. A statistically significant difference was found between the frequencies of the genotypes and alleles of miRNA-146a (rs2910164) and IRAK1 (rs3027898), compared with the control group. Also, whereas the mutant allele G of miRNA-146a may be a factor in the pathogenesis of lupus nephritis, the mutant allele C of IRAK1 may play a role in lupus arthritis. Both genes may contribute to the susceptibility of patients to SLE and MS.
Endotoxin tolerance is a phenomenon characterized by a reduced capacity of monocytes and macrophages to respond to repeated stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) which has been suggested to represent a way of controlling the intensity and duration of innate immune response. During endotoxin tolerance, monocytes undergo functional re-programming primarily by epigenetic regulation. Recently, micro-RNA (miR)-146a has been demonstrated to be the major player of the negative regulation of the pro-inflammatory response, affecting TNF-α production. In this study, we have employed CyP, a cyanobacterial LPS antagonist acting on TLR4-MD2 complex, for priming human monocytes and evaluating their response to a subsequent challenge with E. coli LPS. Results show that CyP is able to induce cross-tolerance to E. coli LPS by inhibiting TNF-α production. The mechanism of action is mediated by a specific induction of miR-146a and reduction of IRAK1 and TRAF6 expressions in human monocytes by CyP priming. Up-regulation of miR-146a by CyP alone, affects subsequent cell response in term of TNF-α production even when monocytes are incubated with other TLR ligands, as lipoteichoic acid (LTA), thus confirming miR-146a as a critical player mediating TNF-α regulation during cross-tolerance with CyP.
The ALAN is drawing the attention of researchers and environmentalists for its ever-increasing evidence on its capacity of "desynchronization" of organismal physiology. Photoperiod and circadian cycles are critical parameters to influence the biology of reproduction in several animals, including fish. The present study is the first proof of the development of an ovarian tumour with the effect of light in zebrafish (Danio rerio), an excellent model for circadian-related studies. Results of three experimental conditions, continuous light for one week, LLW, one month, LLM, and for one year, LLY revealed a clear desynchronization of clock associated genes (Clock1a, Bmal1a, Per2, and Cry2a). Interestingly, loss of rhythmicity and low concentration of melatonin found in these conditions in whole brain, retina, ovary, and serum through ELISA. RNA-Seq data of ovarian samples revealed the upregulation of Mid2, Tfg, Irak1, Pim2, Tradd, Tmem101, Nfkbib genes and ultimately increase the expression of NF-κB, a cellular transformer for tumourigenesis, confirmed by the western blot. The appearance of TNFα, inflammatory cytokines and activator of NF-κB also increased. Histology approved the formation of thecoma and granulosa cell tumour in the one year exposed ovarian sample. The whole transcriptome data analysis revealed 1791 significantly upregulated genes in an ovarian tumour. Among these genes, DAVID functional annotation tool identified 438 genes, directly linked to other physiological disorders. This study evidenced of an ovarian tumour induced by ALAN in zebrafish.
Herba Siegesbeckiae (HS, the dried aerial part of Siegesbeckia orientalis L.) is a commonly used traditional Chinese medicinal herb for treating inflammatory diseases. HS has been reported to exert anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting the MAPKs and NF-κB pathways, the downstream effectors of TLR4 signalling. This study aims to further investigate the involvement of TLR4 signalling cascades in the effects of an ethanolic extract of HS (HS for short) on inflammatory mediators in murine macrophages. HS was extracted using 50% ethanol. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages were used as the cell model. ELISA was used to detect cytokine/chemokine secretion. Real time-PCR and immunoblotting were used to examine mRNA and protein levels, respectively. We observed that HS dose-dependently inhibited the secretion of PGE2, MCP-1, MIP-1α and RANTES, and down-regulated mRNA levels of iNOS, COX-2, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, mPGES-1, MCP-1, MIP-1α and RANTES in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells. HS did not affect the protein levels of TAK1, TBK1, PI3K, Akt, IKK, c-Jun, c-Fos and IRF3, while, dose-dependently decreased levels of their phosphorylated forms. The protein levels of IRAK1 and IRAK4 were upregulated, while those of TRAF6 and TRAF3 were downregulated by HS. Moreover, the nuclear protein levels of AP-1, NF-κB and IRF3 were dose-dependently decreased by HS. These results indicate that suppression of the IRAK4/MAPKs/AP-1, IRAK4/MAPKs/NF-κB, IRAK4/PI3K/NF-κB and TRAF3/TBK1/IRF3 pathways is associated with the inhibitory effects of HS on inflammatory mediators in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells. This study provides a pharmacological basis for the clinical application of this herb in the treatment of inflammatory disorders.
The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) causes persistent infection in human and induces miR-146a expression in infected cells. miR-146a represses the innate immune response by inhibiting the expression of TRAF6 and IRAK1 genes, thus negatively controls the NF-κB-related cytokines and interferon stimulated genes. Here we reported that lentiviral CRISPR/Cas9 system was highly efficient in introducing mutations in the precursor miR-146a genomic sequences, resulting in a loss of miR-146a expression and function. miR-146a ablation led to increasing cytokines production in LPS-stimulated A549 cells. Moreover, miR-146a knockout in HIV-1 infected MT2 cells markedly increased the expression of cytokines and HIV-1 restriction factors and reversed T cell exhaustion markers expression, thus influencing HIV-1 replication. Our study indicates that lentiviral CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing is an effective approach to abrogate miR-146a expression, which consequently inhibits HIV-1 replication as well as proviral reactivation by enhancing the expression of cytokines and HIV-1 restriction factors.
BACKGROUND: A secondary inflammatory response is the most important mechanism of injury after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Previous studies found microRNAs (miRs) expressed abnormally in the perihematomal tissue and blood of patients with ICH and demonstrated that miRs were related to pathophysiological changes and prognosis after ICH, and the development of inflammation.METHODS: We induced a microglial inflammatory response by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to construct a microglial inflammatory model. MiR-21/miR-146a overexpression adenovirus was used to infect microglia to increase miR-21/miR-146a expression. MiR-21, miR-146a, IRAK1, MMP-9, TNF-α, TIMP3 and other inflammatory factors were analyzed. Then, miR-21/miR-146a overexpression adenovirus was injected into rats with ICH to modulate the expression. Inflammation, brain edema, and neurological scores were assessed.RESULTS: For in vitro and vivo experiments, overexpression of miR-21/miR-146a decreased the expression of IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IRAK1, MMP-9 and TNF-α, meanwhile increased the expression of TIMP3 significantly (P<0.001), compared with the negative control group. Additionally, miR-21 and miR-146a reduced brain edema and improved the neurological function in ICH rats.CONCLUSION: Our study proved that miR-21 and miR-146a could negatively regulate the inflammatory response of microglia after ICH and provided a new theoretical basis for the treatment of secondary inflammatory injury after ICH in humans.
Pattern recognition receptors can recognize pathogens, and then cells are induced to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines and interferon by multiple signaling pathways. Nevertheless, excessive inflammation disrupts immune homeostasis, thereby inducing autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Thus, the regulation of immune responses is extremely important for host to keep homeostasis. In this study, we found that miR-19a plays a negative regulator in MyD88-mediated NF-κB signaling pathway by targeting MyD88 in miiuy croaker. Furthermore, over-expression of miR-19a in macrophages suppresses the expression of MyD88 and its downstream signaling genes of IRAK1, IRAK4 and TRAF6, whereas, the inhibitor of miR-19a has opposite effect. This study can increase our knowledge and help us to furthermore understand miRNAs regulatory mechanism in teleost fish.
Interleukin-36 (IL-36) cytokines are important regulators of mucosal homeostasis and inflammation. We have previously established that oral epithelial cells upregulate IL-36γ expression in response to the bacterial pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis Here, we have established that IL-36γ can stimulate the gene expression of mechanistically distinct antimicrobial proteins, including the peptidoglycan amidase PGLYRP2, in oral epithelial cells (e.g., TIGK cells). PGLYRP2 gene expression was not stimulated by either IL-17 or IL-22, thus demonstrating selectivity in the regulation of PGLYRP2 by IL-36γ. The IL-36γ-inducible expression of PGLYRP2 was shown to be mediated by IRAK1- and p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase-dependent signaling. Furthermore, our finding that IL-36γ-inducible PGLYRP2 expression was reduced in proliferating TIGK cells but increased in terminally differentiating cells suggests that control of PGLYRP2 expression is associated with the maturation of the oral epithelium. PGLYRP2 expression in TIGK cells can also be directly stimulated by oral bacteria. However, the extracellular gingipain proteases (Kgp and RgpA/B) produced by P. gingivalis, which are critical virulence factors, can antagonize PGLYRP2 expression. Thus, the expression of IL-36γ by oral epithelial cells in response to P. gingivalis might enable the subsequent autocrine stimulation of PGLYRP2 expression. In summary, our data identify how IL-36γ may promote oral mucosal homeostasis by regulating PGLYRP2 expression.
IL-1R/TLR signaling plays a significant role in sensing harmful foreign pathogens and mounting effective innate and adaptive immune responses. However, the precise mechanism by which Leishmania donovani, an obligate intramacrophagic pathogen, breaches IL-1R/TLR signaling and host-protective immunity remains obscure. In this study, we report the novel biphasic role of Toll-interacting protein (Tollip), a negative regulator of the IL-1R/TLR pathway, in the disease progression of experimental visceral leishmaniasis. We observed that during early hours of infection, L. donovani induced phosphorylation of IRAK-1, resulting in the release of Tollip from the IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 complex in J774 macrophages, which then acted as an endocytic adaptor on cell surface IL-1R1 and promoted its lysosomal degradation. In the later stage, Tollip shuttled back to IRAK-1, thereby inhibiting IRAK-1 phosphorylation in association with IRAK-M to neutralize downstream TLR signaling in infected macrophages. Moreover, during late infection, L. donovani enhanced nuclear translocation and recruitment of transcription factors early growth response protein 2, NF erythroid 2-related factor 2, and Ahr on Tollip promoter for its induction. Small interfering RNA-mediated silencing of Tollip in infected macrophages significantly enhanced NF-κB activation and induced host-defensive IL-12 and TNF-α synthesis, thereby reducing amastigote multiplication. Likewise, abrogation of Tollip in L. donovani-infected BALB/c mice resulted in STAT-1-, IRF-1-, and NF-κB-mediated upregulation of host-protective cytokines and reduced organ parasite burden, thereby implicating its role in disease aggravation. Taken together, we conclude that L. donovani exploited the multitasking function of Tollip for its own establishment through downregulating IL-1R1/TLR signaling in macrophages.
BACKGROUND: Atherosclerosis involves activation of the IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB inflammatory cascade, which is negatively regulated by miR146a. Previous studies showed that the TT genotype of rs2431697, located near the miR-146a gene, drives lower miR-146a transcription and predicts adverse cardiovascular events in anticoagulated atrial fibrillation patients. Moreover, systemic miR-146a administration protects mice from atherosclerosis. Here we evaluated the ability of miR-146a expression in the hematopoietic component to regulate atherosclerosis in low-density lipoprotein receptor-null mice (Ldlr-/-).METHODS AND RESULTS: Lethally-irradiated Ldlr-/- mice transplanted with bone marrow from wild-type or miR-146a-null mice were fed an atherogenic diet for 8 and 20 weeks. Irak1, Traf6 and MIR146A expression were quantified in thoracic aorta by qRT-PCR and Western blot. Aortic plaque size and composition were characterized by Oil-Red staining and immunohistochemistry and leukocyte recruitment by intravital microscopy. Blood cell counts were similar in fat-fed Ldlr-/-mice with or without hematopoietic miR-146a expression. However, plasma cholesterol decreased in fat-fed Ldlr-/-mice transplanted with bone marrow deficient for miR-146a. Finally, aortic atherosclerosis burden and recruitment of leukocytes into the vessel wall were undistinguishable between the two groups, despite higher levels of Irak1 and Traf6 mRNA and protein in the aorta of fat-fed mice lacking hematopoietic miR-146a expression.CONCLUSIONS: miR-146a deficiency exclusively in hematopoietic cells modulates cholesterol levels in plasma and the expression of its targets in the artery wall of fat-fed Ldlr-/- mice, but does not accelerate atherosclerosis. Atheroprotection upon systemic miR-146a administration may therefore be caused by specific effects on vascular cells.
BACKGROUND: microRNA-146a-5p (miRNA-146a-5p) is a key molecule in the negative regulation pathway of TLRs and IL-1 receptor (TIR) signaling. Our recent study demonstrated that MyD88-dependent signaling pathway of TIR in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal dorsal horn (SDH) plays a role in peripheral nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain. However, it was not clear whether and how miRNA-146a-5p regulates the TIR pathway of DRG and SDH in the development of neuropathic pain.METHODS: The sciatic nerve chronic constriction injury (CCI) model of rat was used to induce chronic neuropathic pain. The levels and cellular distribution of miRNA-146a-5p were detected with quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). The RNA level, protein level, and cellular distribution of IRAK1 and TRAF6 that is targeted by miRNA-146a-5p were detected with qPCR, western blot, and immunofluorescent. The pain-related behavioral effect of miRNA-146a-5p was accessed after intrathecal administration. Mechanical stimuli and radiant heat were used to evaluate mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia.RESULTS: We found that the level of miRNA-146a-5p significantly increased in L4-L6 DRGs and SDH after CCI surgery; meanwhile, the protein level of IRAK1 and TRAF6 in DRGs was significantly increased after CCI. Intrathecal injection of miR146a-5p agomir or miRNA-146a-5p antagomir regulates miRNA-146a-5p level of L4-L6 DRGs and SDH. We found that intrathecal injection of miR146a-5p agomir can alleviate mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in CCI rats and reverse the upregulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6 of L4-L6 DRGs and SDH induced by CCI. We furthermore found that intrathecal injection of miRNA-146a-5p antagomir can exacerbate the mechanical and thermal pain-related behavior of CCI rats and meanwhile increase IRAK1 and TRAF6 of L4-L6 DRGs and SDH expression even further.CONCLUSIONS: miRNA-146a-5p of DRG and SDH can modulate the development of CCI-induced neuropathic pain through inhibition of IRAK1 and TRAF6 in the TIR signaling pathway. Hence, miRNA-146a-5p may serve as a potential therapeutic target for neuropathic pain.
Objective: It was demonstrated that inflammation and oxidative stress induced by hyperglycemia were closely associated with alteration of miR-146a. Here, we investigated the role of miR-146a in mediating inflammation and oxidative stress in the brain of chronic T2DM rats. Methods: The chronic T2DM (cT2DM) models were induced by intraperitoneal administration of STZ (35 mg/kg) after being fed a high-fat, high-sugar diet for 6 weeks. H&E staining was conducted to observe the morphological impairment of the rat hippocampus. The expressions of inflammatory mediators (COX-2, TNF-α, IL-1β) and antioxidant proteins (Nrf2, HO-1) were measured by western blot. The levels of MDA and SOD were detected by the respective activity assay kit. The levels of p22phox and miR-146a were examined by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The expressions of IRAK1, TRAF6 and NF-κB p65 were measured by western blot and qRT-PCR. Pearson correlation analysis was performed to investigate the correlations between miR-146a and inflammatory mediators as well as oxidative stress indicators. Results: The expression of miR-146a was negatively correlated with inflammation and oxidative stress status. In the brain tissues of cT2DM rats, it was observed that the expressions of inflammatory mediators (COX-2, TNF-α, IL-1β) and oxidative stress indicators including MDA and p22phox were elevated, which were negatively correlated with the expression of miR-146a. While, the antioxidant proteins (Nrf2, HO-1, SOD) levels decreased in the brain of cT2DM rats, which were positively correlated with the miR-146a level. The expressions of NF-κB p65 and its specific modulators (IRAK1&TRAF6) were elevated in the brain of cT2DM rats, which might be inhibited by miR-146a. Conclusion: Our results implied that increased inflammation and oxidative stress status were associated with brain impairment in cT2DM rats, which were negatively correlated with miR-146a expression. Thus, miR-146a may serve as a negative comprehensive indicator of inflammation and oxidative stress status in the brain of chronic T2DM rats.
Exosome-mediated intercellular communication has been increasingly recognized as having a broad impact on Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Still, limited information exists regarding their "modus operandi", as it critically depends on exosomal cargo, environmental context and target cells. Therefore, a more thorough understanding of the role of exosomes from different cell types as mediators of neuroinflammation in AD context is a decisive step to open avenues for innovative and efficient therapies. In this study, we demonstrate that SH-SY5Y cells transfected with the Swedish mutant of APP695 (SHSwe) remarkably express increased inflammatory markers, combined with higher APP and Aβ1-40 production, when compared to naïve SH-SY5Y (SH) cells. Although exerting an early clearance effect on extracellular APP and Aβ accumulation when in co-culture with SHSwe cells, human CHME3 microglia gradually lose such property, and express both pro-inflammatory (iNOS, IL-1β, TNF-α, MHC class II, IL-6) and pro-resolving genes (IL-10 and Arginase 1), while also evidence increased senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity. Interestingly, upregulation of inflammatory-associated miRNA (miR)-155, miR-146a and miR-124 by SHSwe secretome shows to be time-dependent and to inversely correlate with their respective targets (SOCS-1, IRAK1 and C/EBP-α). We report that microglia also internalize exosomes released from SHSwe cells, which are enriched in miR-155, miR-146a, miR-124, miR-21 and miR-125b and recapitulate the cells of origin. Furthermore, we show that SHSwe-derived exosomes are capable of inducing acute and delayed microglial upregulation of TNF-α, HMGB1 and S100B pro-inflammatory markers, from which only S100B is found on their derived exosomes. Most importantly, our data reveal that miR-21 is a consistent biomarker that is found not only in SHSwe cells and in their released exosomes, but also in the recipient CHME3 microglia and derived exosomes. This work contributes to the increased understanding of neuron-microglia communication and exosome-mediated neuroinflammation in AD, while highlights miR-21 as a promising biomarker/target for therapeutic intervention.
Although a large number of studies have confirmed from multiple levels that diabetes mellitus (DM) promotes cerebral ischemic reperfusion (I/R) injury, but the precise mechanism is still unclear. A cerebral I/R injury model in diabetic rats was established. The neurological deficit scores and brain edema were monitored at 24 and 72 hours after injury. The peri-infarct cortical tissues of rats were isolated for molecular biology detection. The rat primary microglia and microglia line HAPI were cultured to establish the cell model of DM-I/R by high glucose (HG) and hypoxia-reoxygenation (H/R). The endogenous expression of MALAT1 and MyD88 was regulated by the transfection with pcDNA-MALAT1, si-MALAT1 and si-MyD88, respectively. The cerebral I/R injury model in diabetic rats had more severe neuronal injury as shown by the significantly higher neurological deficit scores and an obvious increasing brain edema at 24 and 72 hours after injury. Moreover, the microglia were activated and induced a large number of inflammatory cytokines TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 in the peri-infarct cortical tissues during cerebral I/R injury associated with DM. The expression of MALAT1, MyD88, IRAK1 and TRAF6 protein were significantly up-regulated by DM-I/R in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, the HG-H/R-induced MALAT1 promoted the inflammatory response in microglia via MyD88/IRAK1/TRAF6 signaling. Our results suggested that MALAT1 mediated the exacerbation of cerebral I/R injury induced by DM through triggering the inflammatory response in microglia via MyD88 signaling.
Small-molecule inhibitors are widely used to treat a variety of inflammatory diseases. In this study, we found a novel antiinflammatory compound, 1-[(2R,4S)-2-methyl-4-(phenylamino)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-1-yl]prop-2-en-1-one (MPQP). It showed strong anti-inflammatory effects in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages. These effects were exerted through the inhibition of the production of NO and pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). Furthermore, MPQP decreased the expression levels of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2). Additionally, it mediated the inhibition of the phosphorylation of p38, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), the inhibitor of κBα (IκBα), and their upstream kinases, IκB kinase (IKK) α/β, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MKK) 3/6, and MKK4. Furthermore, the expression of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) that regulates NF-κB, p38, and the JNK signaling pathways, was also increased by MPQP. These results indicate that MPQP regulates the IRAK1-mediated inflammatory signaling pathways by targeting IRAK1 or its upstream factors. [BMB Reports 2018; 51(6): 308-313].
Gastric cancer (GC) is among the most common cancer types in the world and one of the most lethal gastrointestinal cancers. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can be of great importance in the early detection of GC. This study aimed to investigate some miRNAs and the genes involved in IRAK1 pathways in the serum of GC patients with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infections compared to the control group. Total RNA was extracted from the serum of GC patients with H. pylori infection and healthy volunteers. The expression levels of miRNAs and the genes were assessed using Real time RT-PCR with specific primers. Our data showed that miR-146, miR-375, and Let-7 were down-regulated and miR-19 and miR-21 were up-regulated in GC patients with H. pylori infection. Other genes involved in the pathways such as RAS, MYC, NFKB, JUN, TRAF6, and IRAK4 were overexpressed; while the expression of PTEN gene was decreased compared to the control group. Expression of miRNAs and IRAK1 pathway genes are altered in patients with GC and H. pylori infection. This suggests a potential role for the above-mentioned miRNAs and genes in the diagnosis of GC.
BACKGROUND: Fibrotic diseases result from an exuberant response to chronic inflammation. Myelofibrosis is the end result of inflammation in bone, caused by an inflammatory process triggered by production of abnormal myeloid cells driven by mutations affecting the JAK-STAT pathway. Inflammatory cytokine overproduction leads to increased mesenchymal cell proliferation, culminating in fibrosis. Although JAK2 inhibitors, such as the JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib and the JAK2/FLT3/CSF1R/IRAK1 inhibitor pacritinib suppress abnormal clone expansion in myelofibrosis, ruxolitinib does not appear to prevent or reverse bone-marrow fibrosis in most patients. In two Phase III clinical trials, pacritinib, however, demonstrated improvements in platelet counts and hemoglobin and reductions in transfusion burden in some patients with baseline cytopenias, suggesting it may improve bone-marrow function. Unlike ruxolitinib, pacritinib suppresses signaling through IRAK1, a key control point for inflammatory and fibrotic signaling.PURPOSE: To investigate potential antifibrotic effects of pacritinib in an animal model of liver fibrosis relevant to the observed course of human disease.METHODS: Pacritinib, negative control (vehicle), and positive control (the angiotensin 2-receptor antagonist and PPARγ partial agonist telmisartan) were assessed in the murine Stelic animal model, which mimics the clinically observed progression from hepatic steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, liver fibrosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Histopathological analysis used hematoxylin and eosin staining. Body and liver weight changes, nonalcoholic fatty-liver disease activity scores, and plasma cytokeratin 18 fragment levels (a biomarker of hepatic necrosis) were measured.RESULTS: Pacritinib-treated mice had significantly (P<0.01) reduced fibrotic areas in liver compared to vehicle control and significantly (P<0.05) lower levels of CK18. The antifibrotic effect of pacritinib was comparable to that of telmisartan, but without significant effects on fat accumulation.CONCLUSION: These results, the first to demonstrate hepatic antifibrotic effects for pacritinib in an animal model of liver disease, provide preliminary support for potential clinical applications of pacritinib in fibrotic diseases other than myelofibrosis.
BACKGROUND The aim of this study was to assess the effects of interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor associated kinase (IRAK) inhibitors on intestinal injury induced by necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) in neonatal rats and its regulation on the intestinal Toll-like receptor (TLR) inflammatory signaling pathway. MATERIAL AND METHODS The neonatal rat models of NEC were established though hypoxia-cold stimulation. All rats were divided into 3 groups: an NEC model group (NEC group), an IRAK inhibitor group (IRAKI group), and a normal control group (NC group). At 72 h after the models were established, intestinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. RESULTS After IRAK inhibitor intervention, the symptoms of NEC in neonatal rats were alleviated, and the degree of weight loss was reduced. In the IRAK group, the intestinal pathology of neonatal rats was improved, pathological score was decreased, and the incidence rate of NEC was significantly reduced. The levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), IL-1β, and IL-6 in the IRAK group were significantly decreased compared with those in the NEC group. There were no significant differences in IRAK1 and IRAK4 protein expression levels between the IRAK group and the NEC group. The phosphorylated IRAK1 and IRAK4 in the IRAK group were significantly decreased. Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) level of intestinal tissues in the IRAK group was reduced compared with that in the NEC group. CONCLUSIONS IRAK inhibitors can inhibit the inflammatory response of the NEC model, reduce the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and alleviate the damage to intestinal tissues by inhibiting conduction of the TLR signaling pathway.
IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) 4 is a central enzyme of the TLR pathways. This study tested the hypothesis that IRAK4 kinase activity is prerequisite for regulating innate immunity during infections with intracellular bacteria. To this end, we analyzed responses of macrophages obtained from mice expressing wild-type (WT) IRAK4 or its kinase-inactive K213M mutant (IRAK4KI ) upon infection with intracellular bacteria Listeria monocytogenes or Mycobacterium smegmatis. In contrast to robust induction of cytokines by macrophages expressing kinase-sufficient IRAK4, IRAK4KI macrophages expressed decreased TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, and C-C motif chemokine ligand 5 upon infection with L. monocytogenes or M. smegmatis. Bacterial infection of IRAK4KI macrophages led to attenuated activation of IRAK1, MAPKs and NF-κB, impaired induction of inducible NO synthase mRNA and secretion of NO, but resulted in elevated microbial burdens. Compared with WT animals, systemic infection of IRAK4KI mice with M. smegmatis or L. monocytogenes resulted in decreased levels of serum IL-6 and CXCL-1 but increased bacterial burdens in the spleen and liver. Thus, a loss of IRAK4 kinase activity underlies deficient cytokine and microbicidal responses during infection with intracellular bacteria L. monocytogenes or M. smegmatis via impaired activation of IRAK1, MAPKs, and NF-κB but increases bacterial burdens, correlating with decreased induction of NO.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), an essential mediator of innate immunity and inflammatory responses, is constitutively active in multiple cancers. We evaluated the role of IRAK1 in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and assessed the inhibitory activity of multikinase inhibitor pacritinib on IRAK1 in AML. We demonstrated that IRAK1 is overexpressed in AML and provides a survival signal to AML cells. Genetic knockdown of IRAK1 in primary AML samples and xenograft model showed a significant reduction in leukemia burden. Kinase profiling indicated pacritinib has potent inhibitory activity against IRAK1. Computational modeling combined with site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated high-affinity binding of pacritinib to the IRAK1 kinase domain. Pacritinib exposure reduced IRAK1 phosphorylation in AML cells. A higher percentage of primary AML samples showed robust sensitivity to pacritinib, which inhibits FLT3, JAK2, and IRAK1, relative to FLT3 inhibitor quizartinib or JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib, demonstrating the importance of IRAK1 inhibition. Pacritinib inhibited the growth of AML cells harboring a variety of genetic abnormalities not limited to FLT3 and JAK2. Pacritinib treatment reduced AML progenitors in vitro and the leukemia burden in AML xenograft model. Overall, IRAK1 contributes to the survival of leukemic cells, and the suppression of IRAK1 may be beneficial among heterogeneous AML subtypes.
Erratum in    Cell Physiol Biochem. 2018;47(6):2631.
BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematous (SLE) is a complex autoimmune disease with female predominance, particularly affecting those of childbearing age. We performed analysis of three genome-wide genotyping datasets of populations of both Chinese and European origin.METHODS: This study involved 5695 cases and 10,357 controls in the discovery stage. The lead signal on chromosome X was followed by replication in three additional Asian cohorts, with 2300 cases and 4244 controls in total. Conditional analysis of the known associated loci on chromosome X was also performed to further explore independent signals.RESULTS: Single-nucleotide polymorphism rs13440883 in GPR173 was found to be significantly associated with SLE (Pmeta = 7.53 × 10- 9, ORmeta= 1.16), whereas conditional analysis provided evidence of a potential independent signal in the L1CAM-IRAK1-MECP2 region in Asian populations (rs5987175 [LCA10]).CONCLUSIONS: We identified a novel SLE susceptibility locus on the X chromosome. This finding emphasizes the importance of the X chromosome in disease pathogenesis and highlights the role of sex chromosomes in the female bias of SLE.
This study was aimed to research the effect of miR-223 on the inflammatory responses induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in nucleus pulposus (NP) cells of rat intervertebral disc. Isolated rat NP cells were induced by LPS. Reverse transcriptase quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to detect gene expression. To detect protein expression, Western blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay experiments were applied. The putative targeting relationship between miR-223 and Irak1 was determined using dual-luciferase reporter gene assay. We found that miR-223 was downregulated in LPS-induced NP cells. MiR-223 upregulated the expression of extracellular matrix-related genes (Aggrecan and Collagen II). Matrix degrading enzymes (ADAMTS4, ADAMTS5, MMP3 and MMP13), NO reaction-associated proteins (PGE2, COX-2 and INOS) and the expression of nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling-related proteins were downregulated after miR-233 overexpression. In addition, luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that miR-223 directly targeted Irak1. MiR-223 overexpression could inhibit NF-κB signaling by targeting Irak1, and finally suppress the LPS-induced inflammation in NP cells. © 2018 IUBMB Life, 70(6):479-490, 2018.
Cervical cancer is the third most common type of cancer in women, and microRNAs play an important role in this type of cancer. The elevated expression of miR-146a is involved in the pathogenesis of cancers generally, but its role in cervical cancer has not been fully elucidated. In the present study, we assessed the expression of miR-146a in G>C polymorphisms and confirmed that the overexpression of miR-146a promoted cervical cancer cell viability. The recombinant expression plasmids pre-miR-146a-G or pre-miR-146a-C including single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were successfully constructed. Pre-miR-146a-G or pre-miR-146a-C was transfected into cervical cancer cells or immortalized non-tumorigenic cells and the expression of miR-146a was evaluated by real-time PCR. The cell viability, cell-cycle analysis and apoptosis were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 assay (CCK-8), flow cytometry and cleaved caspase-3 protein expression, respectively. The expression of interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and cyclin D1 was assessed following the transfection with a miR-146a mimic or a negative control. The cell viability and the number of S-phase cells increased after transfection with miR-146a mimic or an IRAK1 or TRAF6 interference fragment. After transfection, IRAK1 and TRAF6 protein expression was downregulated and the expression of cyclin D1 was upregulated, however apoptosis and cleaved caspase-3 were not affected. Polymorphisms in miR-146a precursor may be linked to the expression of miR-146a and may be a potential target for cervical cancer therapy.
BACKGROUND: Immune intolerance of the fetal-placental unit may be a contributing cause of unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion (URSA).OBJECTIVES: This study is to investigate the relevance of the miR-146a-5p/IFN-γ pathway to URSA.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Quantitative real-time RT-PCR and western blot were performed to compare the levels of miR-146a-5p, IFN-γ, IRAK1, and TRAF6 in the deciduae of URSA (n=29) and healthy women (n=35) after an elective abortion.RESULTS: The levels of miR-146a-5p were lower in the deciduae of patients with URSA compared with control subjects (P=0.027). The mRNA and protein expressions of IFN-γ, IRAK1, and TRAF6 were higher in the deciduae in patients with URSA compared with control subjects (P<0.05). There were negative correlations between the miR-146a-5p level and the levels of IRAK1 and TRAF6 mRNAs. The protein levels of IFN-γ, IRAK1, and TRAF6 positively correlated with each other (P<0.01).CONCLUSION: Low miR-146a-5p may promote the activity of IFN-γ, subsequently leading to immune intolerance of the fetal-placental unit, which may contribute to URSA.
The NLRP3 inflammasome has an important function in inflammation by promoting the processing of pro-IL-1β and pro-IL-18 to their mature bioactive forms, and by inducing cell death via pyroptosis. Here we show a critical function of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Pellino2 in facilitating activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. Pellino2-deficient mice and myeloid cells have impaired activation of NLRP3 in response to toll-like receptor priming, NLRP3 stimuli and bacterial challenge. These functions of Pellino2 in the NLRP3 pathway are dependent on Pellino2 FHA and RING-like domains, with Pellino2 promoting the ubiquitination of NLRP3 during the priming phase of activation. We also identify a negative function of IRAK1 in the NLRP3 inflammasome, and describe a counter-regulatory relationship between IRAK1 and Pellino2. Our findings reveal a Pellino2-mediated regulatory signaling system that controls activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome.
Exposure to particulate matter (PM) leads to kinds of cardiopulmonary diseases, such as asthma, COPD, arrhythmias, lung cancer, etc., which are related to PM-induced inflammation. We have found that PM2.5 (aerodynamics diameter <2.5 µm) exposure induces inflammatory response both in vivo and in vitro. Since the toxicity of PM is tightly associated with its size and components, PM1 (aerodynamics diameter <1.0 µm) is supposed to be more toxic than PM2.5 . However, the mechanism of PM1 -induced inflammation is not clear. Recently, emerging evidences prove that microRNAs play a vital role in regulating inflammation. Therefore, we studied the regulation of miR-146a in PM1 -induced inflammation in human lung bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells. The results show that PM1 induces the increase of IL-6 and IL-8 in BEAS-2B cells and up-regulates the miR-146a expression by activating NF-κB signaling pathway. Overexpressed miR-146a prevents the nuclear translocation of p65 through inhibiting the IRAK1/TRAF6 expression, and downregulates the expression of IL-6 and IL-8. Taken together, these results demonstrate that miR-146a can negatively feedback regulate PM1 -induced inflammation via NF-κB signaling pathway in BEAS-2B cells.
AIM: To investigate the protective effects of Ampelopsis grossedentata (AMP) on dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in mice based on systems pharmacology approach.METHODS: Systems pharmacology approach was used to predict the active ingredients, candidate targets and the efficacy of AMP on ulcerative colitis (UC) using a holistic process of active compound screening, target fishing, network construction and analysis. A DSS-induced colitis model in C57BL/6 mice (n = 10/group) was constructed and treated with 5-aminosalicylic acid (100 mg/kg/d) and AMP (400 mg/kg/d) to confirm the underlying mechanisms and effects of AMP on UC with western blot analyses, polymerase chain reaction, histological staining and immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: The therapeutic effects of AMP against DSS-induced colitis were determined in the beginning, and the results showed that AMP significantly improved the disease in general observations and histopathology analysis. Subsequent systems pharmacology predicted 89 corresponding targets for the four candidate compounds of AMP, as well as 123 candidate targets of UC, and protein-protein interaction networks were constructed for the interaction of putative targets of AMP against UC. Enrichment analyses on TNF-α and RANKL/RANK, a receptor activator of NF-κB signaling pathways, were then carried out. Experimental validation revealed that inflammation-related signaling pathways were activated in the DSS group, and AMP significantly suppressed DSS-induced high expression of IRAK1, TRAF6, IκB and NF-κB, and inhibited the elevated expression levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8.CONCLUSION: AMP could exert protective effects on UC via suppressing the IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB-mediated inflammatory signaling pathways.
Alginate oligosaccharide (AOS), prepared from depolymerised alginate, a natural polysaccharide occurring in the cell walls of brown algae, provides beneficial effects for intestinal health. However, the underlying mechanisms by which AOS supplementation maintains the intestinal integrity of weaned pigs remain obscure. Here, we aimed to determine how AOS modulates the intestinal integrity of weaned pigs. Twenty-four weaned pigs were assigned to two treatments: a control group (basal diet) and an AOS group (the basal diet supplemented with 100 mg kg-1 AOS). On day 15, eight pigs per treatment were randomly selected and sacrificed for serum and intestinal samples. We observed that AOS supplementation enhanced the intestinal integrity, as evidenced by the increased (P < 0.05) intestinal occludin protein abundance. Compared to the control group, AOS ingestion both elevated (P < 0.05) the jejunal and ileal catalase activity and decreased (P < 0.05) the duodenal and jejunal tumour necrosis factor-α concentration and mast cell tryptase expression. Furthermore, AOS down-regulated (P < 0.05) the duodenal toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and its down-stream signals, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) mRNA levels, as well as jejunal nucleotide-binding oligomerisation domain protein 1 (NOD1) and its adaptor molecule, receptor-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinase 2 (RIPK2), mRNA levels. Additionally, phospho-nuclear factor-κB (p-NF-κB) p65 protein abundance in the duodenum and jejunum was down-regulated (P < 0.05) following AOS supplementation. According to the above results, the enhanced intestinal integrity in AOS-supplemented pigs appears to be associated with the elevated antioxidant capacity and the reduced mast cell degranulation, as well as the inhibited pro-inflammatory cytokines production via inhibiting the TLR4/NF-κB and NOD1/NF-κB signalling pathways.
OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are now recognized as important regulators of gene expression. The aim of the study was to investigate the role of miR-146b-5p in the TLR4 pathway and provide the basis for the treatment of lupus nephritis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The glomerular mesangial cells were cultured in vitro and divided into 3 groups: control group, a group of miR-146b-5p mimic added, and a group of miR-146b-5p inhibitor added. The levels of IL-6 and IL-8 in the cell culture supernatant of the three groups were detected by ELISA. The cell proliferation was detected by MTT. The expressions of MiR-146b-5p and TLR4 pathway-associated factor TRAF6 were detected by RT- PCR. The expression of TRAF6 and IRAK1 protein was detected by Western blot.RESULTS: The overexpression of miR-146b-5p could reduce the level of IL6 and IL8 in cell culture and inhibit glomerular mesangial cell proliferation in some degree. Also, the overexpression of miR-146b-5p could inhibit the expressions of TLR4 pathway-associated factor TRAF6 and IRAK1mRNA, and the expressions of TRAF6 and IRAK1 protein.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-146b-5p attenuated the inflammatory response of glomerular mesangial cells by inhibiting the expressions levels of TRAF6 and IRAK1 in lupus nephritis.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the function and mechanism of microRNA‑497 (miRNA/miR‑149) in the regulation of cerebral infarction. In patients with cerebral infarction, the serum of microRNA‑497 expression was upregulated compared with that in healthy controls. In N2A cells, overexpression of miR‑497 induced cell proliferation, decreased apoptosis and caspase‑3 and caspase‑9 activities, and suppressed Bax protein expression compared with that in the negative control group. Overexpression of miR‑497 reduced inflammation factors, and suppressed the Toll‑like receptor 4 (TLR4), myeloid differentiation primary response protein MyD88 (MyD88) and nuclear factor‑κB (NF‑κB) protein expression of the N2A cells. Next, miR‑497 overexpression suppressed the protein expression of interleukin‑1 receptor associated kinase (IRAK1) and phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein (p-CREB) in the N2A cells. Following miR‑497 overexpression, TLR4 inhibitor was found to suppress the inflammation factors, suppress the TLR4, MyD88 and NF‑κB protein expression, and reduce the IRAK1 and p‑CREB protein expression of the N2A cells. Lastly, CREB inhibitor also suppressed p‑CREB protein expression, induced cell proliferation, decreased apoptosis and caspase‑3 and caspase‑9 activities, and suppressed Bax protein expression in the N2A cells following miR‑497 overexpression. Taken together, these data demonstrated that miR‑497 attenuated cerebral infarction in patients by regulating the TLR4 and CREB signaling pathways.
Astragalus membranaceus and Salvia miltiorrhiza (AM/SM) are well used in Traditional Chinese Medicines (TCM) for nourishing Qi and activating blood circulation method. From TCM theory, the pathogenesis of acute lung injury (ALI) was determined as Qi deficiency and blood stagnation. In this study, we are aiming to investigate the protective and therapeutic effects of AM/SM on a rat model of lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) induced ALI in rats and to elucidate potential molecular mechanisms. ALI was induced by intratracheal instillation of LPS (5 mg/kg) in Sprague-Dawley rats. SM/AM was given orally before and after LPS administration. Results demonstrated that AM/SM attenuated lung histopathological changes induced by LPS, decreased wet/dry weight ratios and protein concentrations, and inhibited the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in BALF. Moreover, AM/SM significantly downregulated protein and mRNA expression of toll-like receptors 4 (TLR-4), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB/p65). These findings suggest that AM/SM showed protective and therapeutic effects in LPS-induced ALI rat through modulating TLR-4 signaling pathways. Nourishing Qi and activating blood circulation may be a beneficial treatment for ALI.
Myelofibrosis (MF) is a chronic yet progressive myeloid neoplasm in which only a minority of patients undergo curative therapy, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Ruxolitinib, a JAK1/2 inhibitor, is the lone therapy approved for MF, offering a clear symptom and spleen benefit at the expense of treatment-related cytopenias. Pacritinib (PAC), a multi-kinase inhibitor with specificity for JAK2, FLT3, and IRAK1 but sparing JAK1, has demonstrated clinical activity in MF with minimal myelosuppression. Due to an FDA-mandated full clinical hold, the randomized phase 3 PERSIST trials were abruptly stopped and PAC was immediately discontinued for all patients. Thirty-three patients benefitting from PAC on clinical trial prior to the hold were allowed to resume therapy on an individual, compassionate-use basis. This study reports the detailed outcomes of 19 of these PAC retreatment patients with a median follow-up of 8 months. Despite a median platelet count of 49 × 109/L at restart of PAC, no significant change in hematologic profile was observed. Grade 3/4 adverse events of epistaxis (n = 1), asymptomatic QT prolongation (n = 1), and bradycardia (n = 1) occurred in three patients within the first 3 months of retreatment. One death due to catheter-associated sepsis occurred. The median time to discontinuation of PAC therapy on compassionate use for all 33 patients was 12.2 (95% CI 8.3-NR) months. PAC retreatment was associated with modest improvement in splenomegaly without progressive myelosuppression and supports the continued development of this agent for the treatment of MF second line to ruxolitinib or in the setting of treatment-limiting thrombocytopenia.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a typical autoimmune disease. Genome-wide analyses have revealed that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is associated with susceptibility to SLE. Our previous study investigated the role of IRAK1 in nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB)-related pathways in a mouse model of lupus. In this study, we aimed to further explore the etiological role of IRAK1. The gene expression and phosphorylation of IRAK1 in CD4+ T cells from lupus patients and healthy controls were examined by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blotting, respectively. The percentage of circulating Th17 cells and plasma IL-17A levels were evaluated by flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. The influence of IRAK1 suppression on Th17 development was assessed using an IRAK1 inhibitor and small interfering RNA. We found that IRAK1 transcript levels in CD4+ T cells were significantly upregulated in SLE patients in comparison to controls and were positively correlated with disease activity. In vitro experiments showed that lupus CD4+ T cells had more pronounced IRAK1 phosphorylation at threonine-209 upon IL-1β stimulation than did control cells. Moreover, IRAK1 expression was positively associated with Th17/IL-17A in patients. When naïve CD4+ T cells were polarized toward the Th17 subset, IRAK1 inhibition significantly repressed IL-17A production and the gene expression of Th17 markers, namely, retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor c, IL-23 receptor and IL-17A. In summary, IRAK1 is overexpressed and hyperactivated in CD4+ T cells from SLE patients. IRAK1 inhibition attenuates Th17 differentiation in the context of human SLE, suggesting a therapeutic opportunity.
Natural killer (NK) cells are one group of innate lymphocytes that are important for host defense against malignancy and viruses. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in regulating responses of immune cells including NK cells. Accumulating evidence suggests that miR-146a is involved in the regulation of immune responses. However, the mechanism by which miR-146a regulates NK cell function is largely unknown. In the current study, we found that miR-146a intrinsically regulated NK cell function. Forced overexpression of miR-146a decreased IFN-γ production, whereas downregulation of miR-146a by anti-miR-146a significantly enhanced IFN-γ production in the human NK-92 cell line and primary human NK cells upon stimulation with IL-12 or co-stimulation with IL-12 and IL-18. Mechanistically, miR-146a regulated IFN-γ production via NF-κB, as evidenced in NK-92 cells, by downregulation of NF-κB p65 phosphorylation when miR-146a was overexpressed but upregulation of NF-κB p65 phosphorylation when anti-miR-146a was overexpressed. miR-146a directly targeted IRAK1 and TRAF6, the upstream signaling components of the NF-κB signaling pathway. This direct targeting mechanism confirmed the above gain- and loss-of-function approaches. However, the potent IFN-γ-producing subset, CD56bright NK cells, expressed higher levels of miR-146a than the lesser IFN-γ-producing subset, CD56dim NK cells. We also observed that co-stimulation of IL-12 and IL-18 significantly increased miR-146a expression in bulk NK cells and in the CD56bright subset in a time-dependent manner, correlating with augmented IFN-γ production. These data suggest that miR-146a plays a negative role in IFN-γ production by human NK cells and this miRNA may be critical in preventing NK cells from being super activated and overproducing IFN-γ.
Upon immune challenge, insects recognize nonself. The recognition signal will propagate to nearby immune effectors. It is well-known that Toll signal pathway induces antimicrobial peptide (AMP) gene expression. Eicosanoids play crucial roles in mediating the recognition signal to immune effectors by enhancing humoral immune response through activation of AMP synthesis as well as cellular immune responses, suggesting a functional cross-talk between Toll and eicosanoid signals. This study tested a cross-talk between these two signals. Two signal transducing factors (MyD88 and Pelle) of Toll immune pathway were identified in Spodoptera exigua. RNA interference (RNAi) of either SeMyD88 or SePelle expression interfered with the expression of AMP genes under Toll signal pathway. Bacterial challenge induced PLA2 enzyme activity. However, RNAi of these two immune factors significantly suppressed the induction of PLA2 enzyme activity. Furthermore, RNAi treatment prevented gene expression of cellular PLA2. Inhibition of PLA2 activity reduced phenoloxidase activity and subsequent suppression in cellular immune response measured by hemocyte nodule formation. However, immunosuppression induced by RNAi of Toll signal molecules was significantly reversed by addition of arachidonic acid (AA), a catalytic product of PLA2. The addition also significantly reduced the enhanced fungal susceptibility of S. exigua treated by RNAi against two Toll signal molecules. These results indicate that there is a cross-talk between Toll and eicosanoid signals in insect immunity.
Neutrophil infiltration of the chorioamnion-decidua tissue at the maternal-fetal interface (chorioamnionitis) is a leading cause of prematurity, fetal inflammation, and perinatal mortality. We induced chorioamnionitis in preterm rhesus macaques by intraamniotic injection of LPS. Here, we show that, during chorioamnionitis, the amnion upregulated phospho-IRAK1-expressed neutrophil chemoattractants CXCL8 and CSF3 in an IL-1-dependent manner. IL-1R blockade decreased chorio-decidua neutrophil accumulation, neutrophil activation, and IL-6 and prostaglandin E2 concentrations in the amniotic fluid. Neutrophils accumulating in the chorio-decidua had increased survival mediated by BCL2A1, and IL-1R blockade also decreased BCL2A1+ chorio-decidua neutrophils. Readouts for inflammation in a cohort of women with preterm delivery and chorioamnionitis were similar to findings in the rhesus macaques. IL-1 is a potential therapeutic target for chorioamnionitis and associated morbidities.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common chronic liver diseases worldwide, and precision therapeutic will be a benefit for the NAFLD regression. In this study, we observed low microRNA 146 b (miR-146 b) expression in NAFLD mice model induced by methionine-choline-deficient diet (MCD) compared with control group. Furthermore, miR-146b-/- mice induced MCD exhibited severe liver steatosis and hepatitis. A bio-distribution study showed that novel Lactosylated PDMAEMA nanoparticles effectively targeted hepatocytes Lac-PDMAEMA. We coupled miR-146b mimic with Lac-PDMAEMA and then were administrated to NAFLD mice model, which could obviously alleviate the hepatic steatosis. Lac-PDMAEMA effectively delivered miR-146b mimic to hepatocytes with a ∼8-fold upregulation of miR-146b mimic targeting MyD88 and IRAK1, and in turn suppressed the expression of PPARγ. Meanwhile, TNF-α and IL-6 mRNA levels were decreased after administration of Lac-PDMAEMA/miR-146b mimic. So, we made a conclusion that targeted delivering miR-146b mimic to the hepatocytes by, coupling Lac-PDMAEMA nanoparticles could effectively alleviate the hepatic steatosis in NAFLD mice, which maybe bring a new and effective way to intervene and therapy the NAFLD.
BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) serve as important regulators of inflammatory and immune responses and are implicated in several immune disorders including gouty arthritis. The expression of miR-146a is upregulated in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with inter-critical gout when compared to normouricemic and hyperuricemic controls and those patients with acute gout flares. However, the role of miR-146a in the development of gout remains unknown. Here, we used miR-146a knockout (KO) mice to test miR-146a function in a monosodium urate (MSU)-induced gouty arthritis model.METHODS: The footpad or ankle joint of miR-146a KO and wild-type (WT) mice were injected with an MSU suspension to induce acute gouty arthritis. Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were stimulated with MSU and the gene expression of miR-146a; interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β); tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α); and the NACHT, LRR and PYD domains-containing protein 3 (NALP3) inflammasome was evaluated. TNF-α and IL-1β protein levels in BMDMs were assessed by fluorescence-activated cell sorting and western blot analyses. Gene and protein levels of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1), the targets of miR-146a, were also measured.RESULTS: Significantly increased paw swelling and index and ankle joint swelling were observed in miR-146a KO mice compared to WT controls after MSU treatment. MiR-146a expression in BMDMs from WT mice was dramatically upregulated at 4 h following MSU stimulation. Additionally, the expression of IL-1β, TNF-α, and NALP3 was higher in BMDMs from miR-146a KO mice after exposure to MSU crystals compared to those from WT mice. Consistent with the observed gene expression, the IL-1β and TNF-α proteins were upregulated in miR-146a KO mice. Additionally quantitative RT-PCR and western blot demonstrated that TRAF6 and IRAK1 were dramatically upregulated in BMDMs from miR-146 KO mice compared to those from WT mice.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these observations suggest that miR-146a provides negative feedback regulation of gouty arthritis development and lack of miR-146a enhances gouty arthritis via upregulation of TRAK6, IRAK-1, and the NALP3 inflammasome function.
MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) is reportedly implicated in the pathogenesis of ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury; however, its role in cerebral I/R injury is unclear and requires further investigation. In this study, cerebral I/R injury was established in mice via middle cerebral artery occlusion, and the expression of miR-146a was detected in the brain tissue via quantitative real-time PCR. We found that the expression of miR-146a was upregulated. Furthermore, the endogenous miR-146a was antagonized by its specific inhibitor. The results indicated that the inhibition of miR-146a deteriorated I/R-induced neurobehavioral impairment, exaggerated the infarct size, and exacerbated blood-brain barrier leakage. Cerebral I/R injury-induced generation of inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6, was further promoted by miR-146a inhibitor. The expression of interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), a target of miR-146a, was upregulated upon miR-146a inhibition. In addition, the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway was over-activated when miR-146a was antagonized as manifested by the increased levels of phospho-NF-κB inhibitor α and nuclear p65. In summary, our findings demonstrate that the elevation of miR-146a may be one of the compensatory responses after the cerebral I/R injury and suggest miR-146a as a potential therapeutic target for cerebral I/R injury.
Frequent relapse and drug resistance in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) can be attributed to the existence of tumor-initiating cells (TIC) within the tumor bulk. Therefore, targeting liver TICs may improve the prognosis of these patients. From transcriptome sequencing of 16 pairs of clinical HCC samples, we report that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) in the TLR/IRAK pathway is significantly upregulated in HCC. IRAK1 overexpression in HCC was further confirmed at the mRNA and protein levels and correlated with advanced tumor stages and poor patient survival. Interestingly, IRAK4, an upstream regulator of IRAK1, was also consistently upregulated. IRAK1 regulated liver TIC properties, including self-renewal, tumorigenicity, and liver TIC marker expression. IRAK1 inhibition sensitized HCC cells to doxorubicin and sorafenib treatment in vitro via suppression of the apoptotic cascade. Pharmacological inhibition of IRAK1 with a specific IRAK1/4 kinase inhibitor consistently suppressed liver TIC populations. We identified aldo-keto reductase family 1 member 10 (AKR1B10) as a novel downstream target of IRAK1, which was found to be overexpressed in HCC and significantly correlated with IRAK1 expression. Knockdown of AKR1B10 negated IRAK1-induced TIC functions via modulation of the AP-1 complex. Inhibition of IRAK1/4 inhibitor in combination with sorafenib synergistically suppressed tumor growth in an HCC xenograft model. In conclusion, targeting the IRAK4/IRAK1/AP-1/AKR1B10 signaling pathway may be a potential therapeutic strategy against HCC.Significance: IRAK4/IRAK1/AP-1/AKR1B10 signaling pathway regulates cancer stemness and drug resistance and may be a novel therapeutic target in HCC. Cancer Res; 78(9); 2332-42. ©2018 AACR.
[This corrects the article on p. 8025 in vol. 12, PMID: 29184402.].
In this study, the cDNA fragments of cytokines (il-8) and toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway signaling molecules (myd88, irak-1, irf5, and irf7) in the Chinese rare minnow were cloned and exhibited a high amino-acid sequence identity compared to other cyprinid fish orthologs. The mRNA expressions of these genes in the different tissues (liver, brain, spleen, kidney, and skin) were observed. The highest expression levels of myd88, irak-1, and irf5 were detected in the spleen, whereas il-8 and irf7 were detected in the kidney and liver respectively. The mRNA expression of irak-1, irf5, and irf7 in the liver from 0.1 μg/L and 0.5 μg/L CPF treatments were significantly increased on day 7 (p < 0.05), whereas the levels of only irak-1 and irf7 were markedly increased on day 28 (p < 0.05). Moreover, the mRNA expression of il-8 in the spleen following 0.5 μg/L CPF treatments was significantly decreased on day 7 (p < 0.05), whereas significantly decrease were observed in the levels of irf7 in the spleen at 2.5 μg/L CPF on days 7 and 28 (p < 0.05). The 0.1 μg/L and 0.5 μg/L of CPF significantly induced the levels of irak-1 and myd88 in the spleen after 28 d exposure (p < 0.05). Therefore, the high induction of cytokines and TLR pathway signaling molecules demonstrated that Chinese rare minnow was immune-compromised exposed to CPF. Moreover, our finding indicated that these immune-related genes could be feasible to screen for substances hazardous to the immune system of fish.
BACKGROUND: Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide (P. gingivalis-LPS) is one of the major pathogenic factors of chronic periodontitis (CP). Few reports on the correlation between P. gingivalis-LPS and cognitive function exist. Thus, the present study aimed to investigate the effects of P. gingivalis-LPS on cognitive function and the associated underlying mechanism in C57BL/6 mice.METHODS: The C57BL/6 mice were injected with P. gingivalis-LPS (5 mg kg-1) either with or without Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) inhibitor (TAK-242, 5 mg kg-1). After 7 days, behavioral alterations were assessed with the open field test (OFT), Morris water maze (MWM) test, and passive avoidance test (PAT). The activation of astrocytes and microglia in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of mice was observed by immunohistochemistry. The expression of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-8), TLRs (TLR2, TLR3, and TLR4), and CD14 and the activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway (IRAK1, p65, and p-p65) in the cerebral cortex of the mice were evaluated by RT-PCR, ELISA, and western blot.RESULTS: The OFT showed that P. gingivalis-LPS did not affect the initiative and activity of mice. Administration of P. gingivalis-LPS significantly impaired spatial learning and memory during the MWM test and attenuated the ability of passive avoidance learning during the PAT. Both astrocytes and microglia were activated in the cortex and hippocampus. The messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein expression of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-8) was upregulated by P. gingivalis-LPS in the cortex. In addition, the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway was activated (TLR4, CD14, IRAK1, and p-p65). These effects were effectively alleviated by TAK-242.CONCLUSIONS: Administration of P. gingivalis-LPS can lead to learning and memory impairment in C57BL/6 mice. This impairment is mediated by activation of the TLR4 signaling pathway. Our study suggests that P. gingivalis-LPS-induced neuroinflammation plays an important role in cognitive impairment. It also reveals that endotoxins of periodontal pathogens could represent a risk factor for cognitive disorders.
© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) may elicit a series of postnatal body developmental and metabolic diseases due to their impaired growth and development in the mammalian embryo/fetus during pregnancy. In the present study, we hypothesized that IUGR may lead to abnormally regulated DNA methylation in the intestine, causing intestinal dysfunctions. We applied reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS) technology to study the jejunum tissues from four newborn IUGR piglets and their normal body weight (NBW) littermates. The results revealed extensively regional DNA methylation changes between IUGR/NBW pairs from different gilts, affecting dozens of genes. Hiseq-based bisulfite sequencing PCR (Hiseq-BSP) was used for validations of 19 genes with epigenetic abnormality, confirming three genes (AIFM1, MTMR1, and TWIST2) in extra samples. Furthermore, integrated analysis of these 19 genes with proteome data indicated that there were three main genes (BCAP31, IRAK1, and AIFM1) interacting with important immunity- or metabolism-related proteins, which could explain the potential intestinal dysfunctions of IUGR piglets. We conclude that IUGR can lead to disparate DNA methylation in the intestine and these changes may affect several important biological processes such as cell apoptosis, cell differentiation, and immunity, which provides more clues linking IUGR and its long-term complications.
Brucella spp. impedes the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines by its outer membrane protein Omp25 in order to promote survival and immune evasion. However, how Omp25 regulates tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) expression in different mammalian macrophages remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the potential mechanisms by which Omp25 regulates TNF-α expression and found that Omp25-deficient mutant of B. suis exhibited an enhanced TNF-α expression compared with wild-type (WT) B. suis, whereas ectopic expression of Omp25 suppressed LPS-induced TNF-α production at both protein and mRNA levels in porcine alveolar macrophages (PAMs) and murine macrophage RAW264.7 cells. We observed that Omp25 protein as well as WT B. suis upregulated miR-146a, -181a, -181b, and -301a-3p and downregulated TRAF6 and IRAK1 in both PAMs and RAW264.7 cells, but separately upregulates miR-130a-3p in PAMs and miR-351-5p in RAW264.7. The upregulation of miR-146a or miR-351-5p attenuated TNF-α transcription by targeting TRAF6 and IRAK1 at the 3' untranslated region (UTR), resulting in inhibition of NF-kB pathway, while upregulation of miR-130a-3p, -181a, or -301a-3p correlated temporally with decreased TNF-α by targeting its 3'UTR in PAMs or RAW264.7 cells. In contrast, inhibition of miR-130a-3p, -146a, -181a, and -301a-3p attenuated the inhibitory effects of Omp25 on LPS-induced TNF-α in PAMs, while inhibition of miR-146a, -181a, -301a-3p, and -351-5p attenuated the inhibitory effects of Omp25 in RAW264.7, resulting in an increased TNF-α production and decreased intracellular bacteria in both cells. Taken together, our results demonstrate that Brucella downregulates TNF-α to promote intracellular survival via Omp25 regulation of different microRNAs in porcine and murine macrophages.
Although vaccination has been an effective way of preventing infections ever since the eighteenth century, the generation of therapeutic vaccines and immunotherapies is still a work in progress. A number of challenges impede the development of these therapeutic approaches such as safety issues related to the administration of whole pathogens whether attenuated or inactivated. One safe alternative to classical vaccination methods gaining recognition is the use of nanoparticles, whether synthetic or naturally derived. We have recently demonstrated that the papaya mosaic virus (PapMV)-like nanoparticle can be used as a prophylactic vaccine against various viral and bacterial infections through the induction of protective humoral and cellular immune responses. Moreover, PapMV is also very efficient when used as an immune adjuvant in an immunotherapeutic setting at slowing down the growth of aggressive mouse melanoma tumors in a type I interferon (IFN-I)-dependent manner. In the present study, we were interested in exploiting the capacity of PapMV of inducing robust IFN-I production as treatment for the chronic viral infection model lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) clone 13 (Cl13). Treatment of LCMV Cl13-infected mice with two systemic administrations of PapMV was ineffective, as shown by the lack of changes in viral titers and immune response to LCMV following treatment. Moreover, IFN-α production following PapMV administration was almost completely abolished in LCMV-infected mice. To better isolate the mechanisms at play, we determined the influence of a pretreatment with PapMV on secondary PapMV administration, therefore eliminating potential variables emanating from the infection. Pretreatment with PapMV led to the same outcome as an LCMV infection in that IFN-α production following secondary PapMV immunization was abrogated for up to 50 days while immune activation was also dramatically impaired. We showed that two distinct and overlapping mechanisms were responsible for this outcome. While short-term inhibition was partially the result of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 degradation, a crucial component of the toll-like receptor 7 signaling pathway, long-term inhibition was mainly due to interference by PapMV-specific antibodies. Thus, we identified a possible pitfall in the use of virus-like particles for the systemic treatment of chronic viral infections and discuss mitigating alternatives to circumvent these potential problems.
Elevated toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) expression is associated with a high risk of radiation-induced liver disease (RILD). MicroRNA (miR)-146a-5p is a key regulator of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/TLR4 signaling, but its role in modulation of RILD remains unclear. Here, we found that irradiation and LPS stimulation induced TLR4 and miR-146a-5p expression in the human hepatic stellate cell (HSC) line LX2. Ectopic expression of miR-146a-5p in LX2 inhibited irradiation-induced and LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion and cell proliferation, and promoted cell apoptosis by down-regulating the expression levels of TLR4, interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), tumor necrosis factor receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and phosphorylation of nuclear factor-kappa B. In addition, the culture medium from the irradiated and LPS-stimulated HSCs transfected with miR-146a-5p significantly attenuated apoptosis in irradiated hepatocytes. Overexpression of miR-146a-5p reduced α-smooth muscle actin production in irradiated and LPS-stimulated LX2 cells, which was associated with inhibition of TRAF6-mediated JNK and Smad2 phosphorylation. Knockdown of TRAF6 or IRAK1 mimicked the effects of miR-146a-5p on HSC function. Furthermore, miR-146a-5p treatment alleviated irradiation-induced and endotoxin-induced hepatic inflammatory response and fibrogenesis in mice through inhibition of the TLR4 signaling pathway. Collectively, this study reveals the anti-pro-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic effects of miR-146a-5p on liver injury, and suggests a potential application of miR-146a-5p in the therapeutic prevention of RILD.
Erratum in    Am J Med Genet A. 2021 Jan;185(1):304.
Erratum in    Neuroscience. 2018 Aug 1;384:429.
It has been suggested that microRNAs (miRs) are involved in the immune regulation of periodontitis. However, it is unclear whether and how miRs regulate the function of B cells in the context of periodontitis. This study is to explore the role of miR-146a on the inflammatory cytokine production of B cells challenged by Porphyromonas gingivalis (P. gingivalis) lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Primary B cells were harvested from mouse spleen. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used to detect the expression of inflammatory cytokines in B cells in the presence or absence of P. gingivalis LPS and/or miR-146a. Bioinformatics, luciferase reporter assay and overexpression assay were used to explore the binding target of miR-146a. Our results showed that miR-146a level in B cells was elevated by P. gingivalis LPS stimulation, and the mRNA expressions of interleukin (IL)-1β, 6 and 10, and IL-1 receptor associated kinase-1 (IRAK1), but not TNF receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6), were also upregulated. The expression levels of IL-1β, 6, 10 and IRAK1 were reduced in the presence of miR-146a mimic, but were elevated by the addition of miR-146a inhibitor. MiR-146a could bind with IRAK1 3' untranslated region (UTR) but not TRAF6 3'-UTR. Overexpression of IRAK1 reversed the inhibitory effects of miR-146a on IL-1β, 6 and 10. In summary, miR-146a inhibits inflammatory cytokine production in B cells through directly targeting IRAK1, suggesting a regulatory role of miR-146a in B cell-mediated periodontal inflammation.
T helper 17 (Th17) cells are important mediators of immune responses against extracellular bacteria and fungi, and as such play critical regulatory roles in maintaining mucosal homeostasis. Conversely, Th17 cells and their effector molecules interleukin 17A (IL-17A), IL-17F, interferon (IFN)γ, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)α, and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) are implicated in the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Interactions between Th17 cells and other immune cells or stromal cells that are present in the synovial tissue during the earliest phases of the disease, may eventually lead to chronic inflammation, irreversible cartilage degradation and bone erosions. Recent evidence points towards Th17 cell plasticity as an essential contributing process in RA pathology, since Th17 cells are able to adopt a pathogenic phenotype under the influence of environmental, inflammatory and genetic factors. A remarkable feature of this pathogenic Th17 cell phenotype is the high production of GM-CSF and TNFα and the co-appearance of Th1 cell characteristics, such as transcription factor T-box 21 (T-bet) and IFNγ expression. Recently, much progress has been made in unravelling the mechanisms underlying Th17 cell plasticity and pathogenicity. Of interest, many of the environmental and inflammatory factors associated with RA pathology, such as pro-inflammatory mediators and cytokines, microbiome dysbiosis, metabolism and diet, obesity, vitamins, steroids and hormones are linked to the development of pathogenic Th17 cells. Moreover proteins encoded by established genetic risk factors for RA including CCR6, CD226, CSF2, EOMES, ETS1, GATA3, IL2, IL6R, IL23R, IKZF3, IRAK1, IRF4, IRF8, PRKCQ, PRDM1, RBPJ, RUNX1 and TAGAP are directly involved in Th17 cell differentiation and/or function. This review provides a detailed overview of the molecular mechanisms involved in the heterogeneity and pathogenicity of Th17 cells in the context of autoimmune diseases, with a focus on RA. Understanding these mechanisms creates great potential to identify and select novel therapeutic targets which could improve current therapies or lead to development of new treatment strategies in RA.
The treatment landscape for myelofibrosis (MF) has reached the molecular era by targeting different pathways that are implied in this myeloproliferative neoplasm. A few years ago, the first-in-class JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor ruxolitinib, demonstrated reductions in both constitutional symptoms and splenomegaly, leading to the US FDA approval. The development or worsening of cytopenias in patients receiving ruxolitinib uncovered an unmet need that has been addressed by alternative approaches. Pacritinib, a dual JAK2 and FLT3 inhibitor which also inhibits IRAK1, has demonstrated the ability to favorably impact MF-associated splenomegaly and symptom burden, while having limited myelosuppression with manageable gastrointestinal toxicity. Herein, we provide an overview of pacritinib, from early preclinical studies to the latest and ongoing PAC203 trial, as an emerging therapy for MF.
Interleukin 1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) are serine/threonine kinases that play critical roles in initiating innate immune responses against foreign pathogens and other types of dangers through their role in Toll-like receptor (TLR) and interleukin 1 receptor (IL-1R) mediated signaling pathways. Upon ligand binding, TLRs and IL-1Rs recruit adaptor proteins, such as myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88), to the membrane, which in turn recruit IRAKs via the death domains in these proteins to form the Myddosome complex, leading to IRAK kinase activation. Despite their biological and clinical significance, only the IRAK4 kinase domain structure has been determined among the four IRAK family members. Here, we report the crystal structure of the human IRAK1 kinase domain in complex with a small molecule inhibitor. The structure reveals both similarities and differences between IRAK1 and IRAK4 and is suggestive of approaches to develop IRAK1- or IRAK4-specific inhibitors for potential therapeutic applications. While the IRAK4 kinase domain is capable of homodimerization in the unphosphorylated state, we found that the IRAK1 kinase domain is constitutively monomeric regardless of its phosphorylation state. Additionally, the IRAK1 kinase domain forms heterodimers with the phosphorylated, but not unphosphorylated, IRAK4 kinase domain. Collectively, these data indicate a two-step kinase activation process in which the IRAK4 kinase domain first homodimerizes in the Myddosome, leading to its trans-autophosphorylation and activation. The phosphorylated IRAK4 kinase domain then forms heterodimers with the IRAK1 kinase domain within the Myddosome, leading to its subsequent phosphorylation and activation.
Rosmarinic acid (RA), a type of food additives mainly extracted from rosemary, has been reported to possess anti-inflammatory activities in some previous studies. However, the effects of RA on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced mastitis have not been reported. Here, we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of RA on LPS-induced mastitis in mice and elucidated the potential mechanisms in mouse mammary epithelial cells (mMECs). RA treatment significantly ameliorated the mammary structural damage, and reduced the activity of myeloperoxidase. ELISA and qPCR results indicated that RA dose-dependently decreased the expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 both in tissues and mMECs. Furthermore, RA remarkably suppressed the protein levels of TLR4, MyD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, and p-IKKβ. In addition, RA was also found to inhibit LPS-induced NF-κB signaling pathway activation. These results suggest that RA effectively attenuates LPS-induced mastitis by inhibiting the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway.
Laryngeal carcinoma is a serious, life-threatening disease. Tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), a proinflammatory cytokine, has complex effects on the proliferation and growth of cancer cells. Previously, we treated a laryngeal cancer cell line (HEp-2) with TNF-α and demonstrated that this treatment suppressed polycystin-2, a transient receptor potential cation channel expression and ATP-induced Ca2+ release but increased HEp-2 cell proliferation and growth. However, the mechanisms and signaling pathways underlying the TNF-α effects on the HEp-2 cells were unclear. Therefore, we here used RNA-seq techniques to examine the effect of TNF-α on the gene transcript expression profile in these cells. We found that TNF-α treatment (100 ng/mL, 24 h) upregulated 2,811 genes and downregulated 1,128 genes. The IRAK1 gene encoding an effector protein downstream of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) was ranked 19th in the upregulated differentially expressed genes. In a gene ontology (GO) analysis, 168 GO terms were identified in the biological process domain for the upregulated differentially expressed genes, and cell cycle and DNA replication functions were enriched. In a Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, TNF-α treatment enhanced the NF-κB pathway in HEp-2 cells. Moreover, both the transcript and protein expression levels of TLR4 as well as the expression of genes encoding downstream TLR4 effectors were significantly increased in TNF-α-treated HEp-2 cells. We concluded that TNF-α increased HEp-2 cell proliferation and growth likely via enhancing TLR4- and NF-κB-associated signaling pathways and that TNF-α may play an important role in the development of laryngeal cancer.
The aim of this study is to explore the influence of miR-146a on cisplatin resistance in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells and the related molecular mechanism. The expression of miR-146a in NSCLC tumor samples and cell lines was measured by qRT-PCR. The DDP (cisplatin) cytotoxicity was detected by CCK-8 assay. The protein expressions of TRAF6, IRAK1, p50, p-p65, p65 in normal DDP-resistant cells were determined by western blot analysis. Luciferase reporter assay was used to investigate the relationship between miR-146a and NF-κB pathway activity. The expression of miR-146a in DDP-resistant NSCLC tumor samples was significantly lower than that in DDP-sensitive ones. Its expression in DDP-resistant cell lines was much lower as well. The protein levels of TRAF6, IRAK1 and p50 were up-regulated in A549/DDP and Calu-1/DDP cells compared to parental cells, and phosphorylation of p65 was also increased, indicating the activation of NF-κB signaling pathway. Furthermore, NF-κB activity was conversely related with miR-146a level in NSCLC. It was revealed that miR-146a expression in NSCLC was negatively correlated with activation of of NF-κB pathway. In conclusion, the study indicates that miR-146a regulates the DDP sensitivity by inhibiting NF-κB signaling pathway in NSCLC cells.
Erratum in    Int J Nanomedicine. 2018 Jan 31;13:615.
Microglia plays a prominent role in the brain's inflammatory response to injury or infection by migrating to affected locations and secreting inflammatory molecules. However, hyperactivated microglial is neurotoxic and plays critical roles in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Pristimerin, a naturally occurring triterpenoid, possesses antitumor, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory activities. However, the effect and the molecular mechanism of pristimerin against lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced neurotoxicity in microglia remain to be revealed. In the present study, using BV-2 microglial cultures, we investigated whether pristimerin modifies neurotoxicity after LPS stimulation and which intracellular pathways are involved in the effect of pristimerin. Here we show that pristimerin markedly suppressed the release of Regulated on Activation, Normal T Expressed and Secreted (RANTES), transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and nitric oxide (NO). Pristimerin also significantly inhibited migration of BV-2 microglia and alleviated the death of neuron-like PC12 cell induced by the conditioned medium from LPS-activated BV-2 microglial cells. Moreover, pristimerin reduced the expression and interaction of TNF Receptor-Associated Factor 6 (TRAF6) and Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinases (IRAK1), limiting TGF-beta activating kinase 1 (TAK1) activation, and resulting in an inhibition of IKKα/β/NF-κB and MKK7/JNK/AP-1 signaling pathway in LPS-activated BV-2 microglia. Taken together, the anti-neurotoxicity action of pristimerin is mediated through the inhibition of TRAF6/IRAK1/TAK1 interaction as well as the related pathways: IKKα/β/NF-κB and MKK7/JNK/AP-1 signaling pathways. These findings may suggest that pristimerin might serve as a new therapeutic agent for treating hyperactivated microglial induced neurodegenerative diseases.
Diosgenin, as an essential natural steroidal saponin, can be extracted from numerous sources, primarily from fenugreek. It is an important raw material for the synthesis of steroid hormone drugs. It exhibits antitumor, anti‑inflammatory, antioxidation and several other significant pharmacologic actions, and is of high pharmaceutical value. In the present study, the activities and underlying mechanisms of dioscin in the inhibition of ischemic stroke in rats were investigated. Inflammatory responses wer analyzed using ELISA kits and caspase‑3 and caspase‑9 activity was analyzed using Caspase‑3 and caspase‑9 activity kits. Western blot analysis was used to measure Toll‑like receptor 4 (TLR4), myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), nuclear factor‑κB (NF‑κB), transforming growth factor‑β1 (TGF‑β1), high‑mobility group protein 1 (HMGB‑1), interleukin‑1 receptor‑associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), and tumor necrosis factor receptor‑associated factor 6 (TRAF6) protein expression. Dioscin inhibited infarct volume and neurological scores in the ischemic stroke rat model. The results demonstrated that dioscin reduced inflammatory responses, and suppressed the expression of TLR4, MyD88, NF‑κB, TGF‑β1, HMGB‑1, IRAK1, and TRAF6 in the rat ischemic stroke model. Taken together, these findings suggested that dioscin inhibited ischemic stroke‑induced inflammation through inhibition of the TLR4/MyD88/NF‑kB‑induced inflammation the rat model, which provided novel insights into the mechanisms underlying the effect of dioscin as an anti‑inflammatory candidate for the treatment of ischemic stroke in in the future.
Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) is the most common childhood cancer in equatorial Africa, and is endemic to areas where people are chronically co-infected with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and the malaria pathogen Plasmodium falciparum. The contribution of these pathogens in the oncogenic process remains poorly understood. We showed earlier that the activation of Toll-like receptor (TLR) 9 by hemozoin, a disposal product formed from the digestion of blood by P. falciparum, suppresses the lytic reactivation of EBV in BL cells. EBV lytic reactivation is regulated by the expression of transcription factor Zta (ZEBRA), encoded by the EBV gene BZLF1. Here, we explore in the BL cell line Akata, the mechanism involved in repression by TLR9 of expression of BZLF1. We show that BZLF1 repression is mediated upon TLR9 engagement by a mechanism that is largely independent of de novo protein synthesis. By CRISPR/Cas9-induced inactivation of TLR9, MyD88, IRAK4 and IRAK1 we confirm that BZLF1 repression is dependent on functional TLR9 and MyD88 signaling, and identify IRAK4 as an essential element for TLR9-induced repression of BZLF1 expression upon BCR cross-linking. Our results unprecedentedly show that TLR9-mediated inhibition of lytic EBV is largely independent of new protein synthesis and demonstrate the central roles of MyD88 and IRAK4 in this process contributing to EBV's persistence in the host's B-cell pool.
PURPOSE: Previous reports have demonstrated that genetic variations in microRNAs regulome could affect microRNAs-mediated regulation. Therefore, in the present study we were aimed at (1) comparison of microRNA 146-a (miR-146a) peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and plasma levels between diabetic patients and controls, and (2) investigating the possible association of rs2910164 with miR-146a and its related target genes expression and also serum cytokine levels.METHODS: The study population consisted of 60 subjects including 30 type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients and 30 controls with determined genotypes for rs2910164. The RNA expression levels were determined by real-time PCR. Moreover, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-10 and IL-1β serum levels were measured using ELISA method.RESULTS: Our results showed that the miR-146a expression levels were significantly decreased in PBMCs (P = 0.004) and plasma (P = 0.008) samples of patients with T2D compared to healthy participants. In addition, we observed that IRAK1 mRNA expression-but not TLR4, TRAF6 and NFĸB-was significantly increased in patients with T2D compared to controls (P = 0.028). The relative expression levels of miR-146a in plasma and PBMCs samples of diabetic patients with the rs2910164 GG genotypes were significantly higher than that in CC (P < 0.05). Moreover, no significant differences were found in miR-146a targets and cytokine levels between the rs2910164 different genotypes.CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that miR-146a circulating levels were significantly elevated in controls compared with T2D patients. In addition, we identified that rs2910164-C allele is associated with reduced expression levels of the miR-146a but not its mRNAs targets and cytokine levels in diabetic patients.
BACKGROUND: C-type lectin receptors (CLRs), Toll-like receptors (TLRs), and Nod-like receptors (NLRs) have the ability to recognize Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigates) and induce innate immune response. Dectin-1 is a well-described CLR, while interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (Irak1) and receptor-interacting protein 2 (Rip2) are pivotal adaptor proteins of TLRs and NLRs signaling pathways, respectively.OBJECTIVES: Our primary aim is to elucidate whether Dectin-1 regulates the expression of Irak1 and Rip2, and confirm that CLRs, TLRs, and NLRs pathways act synergistically in response to A. fumigatus infection.METHODS: Pulmonary infection mouse models were established. Myeloid cells were differentiated in cell culture and examined by inverted microscopy, flow cytometry, and scanning electron microscopy. The relative mRNA levels were determined by qRT-PCR. The protein expression levels were determined by immunohistochemistry and Western blot.RESULTS: The expression of Dectin-1, Irak1, Rip2, and phosphorylation level of nuclear factor (NF)-κB p65 were induced by conidia in immunocompetent mice, while their expression and phosphorylation level were inhibited in immunocompromised mice after the administration of conidia. Conidia increased the expression of Dectin-1, Irak1, and Rip2 in myeloid cells, while Dectin-1 silencing significantly reduced their expression.CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that Dectin-1, Irak1, and Rip2 are involved in response to A. fumigatus infection. Dectin-1 modulates the expression of Irak1 and Rip2. Additionally, these three signaling pathways are interconnected, and CLRs pathway plays a dominant role against A. fumigatus invasion.
The present study investigated the relationship between the expression of miR-146a and miR‑146b with the occurrence and prognosis of papillary thyroid carcinoma. Experiments in vitro were also used to explore the effect of the knocked down expression of the miRNAs on growth and migration of papillary thyroid carcinoma cells. A total of 73 patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma admitted to Yidu Central Hospital of Weifang from September 2013 to September 2015 were enrolled in the study. Carcinoma samples were obtained from each patient, and adjacent tissues were used as control samples to determine expression levels of miR-146a and miR146b by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. An analysis was conducted to find possible correlations between the miRNAs expression levels and clinicopathological features in the patients followed up for one year after diagnosis. Additionally, to examine the function of miR-146a and miR‑146b on TPC-1 cells, the expression of miRNAs was knocked down using specific siRNAs. MTT and Transwell assays were used to evaluate cell proliferation and migration, respectively, in the miRNA cell lines. Finally, western blot analysis was used to analyze the expression of IRAK1 in PTC cancer cells. Our results showed that the expression levels of miR-146a and miR-146b in carcinoma tissues were significantly higher than the levels in cancer-free tissues (p<0.01). The relative expression levels of miR-146a and miR-146b in cancerous tissues could be associated with the pathological type and presence or absence of lymph node metastasis (p<0.05). Compared with the siRNA-control cell, MTT and Transwell assays showed that the cell growth and migration of TPC-1 cells were decreased in miR-146a and miR-146b low expression cells (p<0.01). Western blot analysis showed that the expression of IRAK1 in papillary thyroid carcinoma was higher than in adjacent tissue (p<0.01). Based on our findings, the expression of miR-146a and miR-146b correlates with the occurrence and prognosis of papillary thyroid carcinoma, and the expression levels of miR-146a and miR-146b seem to affect the cell proliferation and migration and regulate the expression of IRAK1 protein in cancer cells. Further studies are needed to validate our results to provide new targets for prevention and treatment of papillary thyroid carcinoma.
Inflammatory responses are controlled by signaling mediators that are regulated by various posttranslational modifications. Recently, transcription-independent functions for glucocorticoids (GC) in restraining inflammation have emerged, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. In this study, we report that GC receptor (GR)-mediated actions of GC acutely suppress TLR9-induced inflammation via inhibition of IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) ubiquitination. β-TrCP-IRAK1 interaction is required for K48-linked ubiquitination of IRAK1 at Lys134 and subsequent membrane-to-cytoplasm trafficking of IRAK1 interacting partners TNFR-associated factor 6 and TAK1 that facilitates NF-κB and MAPK activation. Upon costimulation of macrophages with GC and TLR9-engaging ligand, GR physically interacts with IRAK1 and interferes with protein-protein interactions between β-TrCP and IRAK1. Ablation of GR in macrophages prevents GC-dependent suppression of β-TrCP-IRAK1 interactions. This GC-mediated suppression of IRAK1 activation is unique to TLR9, as GC treatment impairs TLR9 but not TLR4 ligand-induced K48-linked IRAK1 ubiquitination and trafficking of IRAK1 interacting partners. Furthermore, mutations in IRAK1 at Lys134 prevent TLR9 ligand-induced activation of inflammatory signaling mediators and synthesis of proinflammatory cytokines to an extent comparable to GC-mediated inhibition. Collectively, these findings identify a transcription-independent, rapid, and nongenomic GC suppression of TLR9 ligand-mediated IRAK1 ubiquitination as a novel mechanism for restraining acute inflammatory reactions.
This review attempts to cover the implication of the toll-like receptors (TLRs) in controlling immune functions with emphasis on their significance, function, regulation and expression patterns. The tripartite TLRs are type I integral transmembrane receptors that are involved in recognition and conveying of pathogens to the immune system. These paralogs are located on cell surfaces or within endosomes. The TLRs are found to be functionally involved in the recognition of self and non-self-antigens, maturation of DCs and initiation of antigen-specific adaptive immune responses as they bridge the innate and adaptive immunity. Interestingly, they also have a significant role in immunotherapy and vaccination. Signals generated by TLRs are transduced through NFκB signaling and MAP kinases pathway to recruit pro-inflammatory cytokines and co-stimulatory molecules, which promote inflammatory responses. The excess production of these cytokines leads to grave systemic disorders like tumor growth and autoimmune disorders. Hence, regulation of the TLR signaling pathway is necessary to keep the host system safe. Many molecules like LPS, SOCS1, IRAK1, NFκB, and TRAF3 are involved in modulating the TLR pathways to induce appropriate response. Though quantification of these TLRs helps in correlating the magnitude of immune response exhibited by the animal, there are several internal, external, genetic and animal factors that affect their expression patterns. So it can be concluded that any identification based on those expression profiles may lead to improper diagnosis during certain conditions.
Author information:(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Henan Provincial People's Hospital, Zhengzhou 450003, Henan, China. Corresponding author: Qin Bingyu, Email: hnsyicu2@163.com.
Endothelial inflammatory responses promote the development and progression of atherosclerosis. It was reported that Toll-like receptors 2 (TLR2) is associated with endothelial inflammation. However, the effect of TLR2 on inflammatory responses in human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs) remains largely unknown. Here, we tested the hypothesis that TLR2 can enhance inflammatory reactions in HCAECs after stimulated by TLR2 agonist. First, we used CRISPR-Cas9 technology to knockout TLR2 gene in HCAECs. Then, TLR2-KO and wild type HCAECs were treated with TLR2 agonist peptidoglycan (PGN). The expression levels of intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-8 (IL-8) were analyzed by real-time PCR, Western blot, and ELISA. The expression status of myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88), phosphorylated IRAK-1 (pIRAK-1) and phosphorylated NF-κB (pNF-κB) were detected by Western blot. Our results show that after treated with TLR2 agonist, the expression levels of ICAM-1, IL-6, and IL-8 were downregulated in TLR2-KO cells compared to those of wild type cells. Further, Western blots of MyD88, pIRAK-1, and pNF-κB show that the expression levels of these pro-inflammatory molecules were much lower in TLR2-KO cells compared to that of wild type cells by stimulating with TLR2 agonist. We suggest that TLR2 may affect inflammatory reaction in HCAECs by introducing pro-inflammatory molecules like MyD88, pIRAK-1, and pNF-κB.
Cancer is a multifactorial disease and virus-mediated carcinogenesis is one of the crucial factors, which is poorly understood. Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a herpesvirus and its components have been evidenced to be associated with cancer of different tissue origin. However, its role in cancer remains unknown. Here, we identified a conserved herpesviral tegument protein known as pUL48 of HCMV, encoding deubiquitinase enzyme, as having a key role in carcinogenesis. We show using deubiquitinase sufficient- and deficient-HCMV that HCMV deubiquitinase is a key in inducing enhanced cellular metabolic activity through upregulation of several anti-apoptotic genes and downregulation of several pro-apoptotic genes expression. Furthermore, HCMV deubiquitinase acquires pro-tumor functions by inhibiting PRR-mediated type I interferon via deubiquitination of TRAF6, TRAF3, IRAK1, IRF7 and STING. Taken together, our results suggest that HCMV infection may promote oncogenesis by inhibiting innate immunity of the host.
Endometrial carcinoma (EC) is one of the most common malignancies in the world. Previous studies have investigated the altered expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) in various cancers. We aimed at exploring the biological function and the underlying molecular mechanism of IRAK1 in EC. In this study, IRAK1 was found elevated in EC compared with normal tissues. Further, high IRAK1 expression level was correlated with higher tumor stage, lymph node metastasis, myometrial invasion, and lower survival rate. Knockdown of IRAK1 in two EC cell lines, HEC-1-B and JEC, significantly inhibited cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo. We also found that down-regulation of IRAK1 in EC cells notably induced cell cycle arrest and apoptois, and also inhibited cell migration and invasion. Gene set enrichment analysis on The Cancer Genome Atlas dataset showed that Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) mitotic cell cycle and cell division pathways were correlative with the IRAK1 expression, which was further confirmed in EC cells by Western blot. The expression of mitotic cell cycle (CDK1 and Cdc45) and cell division pathway (Cdc7 and MCM2) related factors was significantly suppressed by IRAK1 knockdown. These collective data indicated that IRAK1 overexpression promotes EC tumorigenesis by activating mitotic cell cycle and cell division pathways, and IRAK1 may serve as a promising therapeutic strategy for EC.
Tumor recurrence remains the main reason for breast cancer-associated mortality, and there are unmet clinical demands for the discovery of new biomarkers and development of treatment solutions to benefit patients with breast cancer at high risk of recurrence. Here we report the identification of chromosomal copy-number amplification at 1q21.3 that is enriched in subpopulations of breast cancer cells bearing characteristics of tumor-initiating cells (TICs) and that strongly associates with breast cancer recurrence. Amplification is present in ∼10-30% of primary tumors but in more than 70% of recurrent tumors, regardless of breast cancer subtype. Detection of amplification in cell-free DNA (cfDNA) from blood is strongly associated with early relapse in patients with breast cancer and could also be used to track the emergence of tumor resistance to chemotherapy. We further show that 1q21.3-encoded S100 calcium-binding protein (S100A) family members, mainly S100A7, S100A8, and S100A9 (S100A7/8/9), and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) establish a reciprocal feedback loop driving tumorsphere growth. Notably, this functional circuitry can be disrupted by the small-molecule kinase inhibitor pacritinib, leading to preferential impairment of the growth of 1q21.3-amplified breast tumors. Our study uncovers the 1q21.3-directed S100A7/8/9-IRAK1 feedback loop as a crucial component of breast cancer recurrence, serving as both a trackable biomarker and an actionable therapeutic target for breast cancer.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of acanthoic acid (AA) on the regulation of inflammatory response, lipid accumulation, and fibrosis via AMPK- IRAK4 signaling against chronic alcohol consumption in mice. Ethanol-induced liver injury was induced in male mice by Lieber-DeCarli diet for 28d. And mice in AA groups were gavaged with AA (20 or 40mg/kg) for 28d. AA treatment significantly decreased serum AST and TG, hepatic TG levels, serum ethanol and LPS levels compared with chronic ethanol administration. AA ameliorated histological changes, lipid droplets, hepatic fibrosis, and inflammation induced by ethanol. AA significantly increased the expressions of p-LKB1, p-AMPK, and SIRT1 caused by chronic ethanol administration, and attenuated the increasing protein expressions of IRAK1 and IRAK4.siRNA against AMPKα1 blocked AMPKα1 and increased IRAK4 protein expressions, compared with control-siRNA-transfected group, while AA treatment significantly decreased IRAK4 expressions compared with AMPKα1-siRNA-transfected group. AMPK-siRNA also blocked the decreased effect of AA on inflammatory factors. AA decreased over-expression of IRAK4 and inflammation under ethanol plus LPS challenge. AA recruited LKB1-AMPK phosphorylation and activated SIRT1 to regulate alcoholic liver injury, especially, inhibited IRAK1/4 signaling pathway to regulate lipid metabolism, hepatic fibrosis and inflammation caused by alcohol consumption.
This study was aimed at investigating whether dietary copper/zinc-loaded montmorillonite (Cu/Zn-Mt) could alleviate Escherichia coli LPS-induced intestinal injury through pro- and anti-inflammatory signaling pathways (TLRs, NLRs and TGF-β1) in weaned piglets. Eighteen 21-d-old pigs were randomly divided into three groups (control, LPS and LPS + Cu/Zn-Mt). After 21 d of feeding, pigs in the LPS group and LPS + Cu/Zn-Mt group received i.p. administration of LPS, whereas pigs in the control group received saline. At 4 h post-injection, jejunum samples were collected for analysis. The results indicated that, compared with the LPS group, supplemental Cu/Zn-Mt increased transepithelial electrical resistance, the expressions of anti-inflammatory cytokines (TGF-β1) in mRNA and protein levels, and decreased FD4 and the mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8 and IL-1β). The pro-inflammatory signaling pathways results demonstrated that Cu/Zn-Mt supplementation decreased the mRNA levels of TLR4 and its downstream signals (MyD88, IRAK1, TRAF6) but had no effect on NOD1 and NOD2 signals. Cu/Zn-Mt supplementation did not affect NF-κB p65 mRNA abundance, but down-regulated its protein expression. The anti-inflammatory signaling pathways results showed supplemental Cu/Zn-Mt also increased TβRII, Smad4 and Smad7 mRNA expressions. These findings suggested dietary Cu/Zn-Mt attenuated LPS-induced intestinal injury by alleviating intestinal inflammation, influencing TLR4-MyD88 and TGF-β1 signaling pathways in weaned pig.
Pam3CSK4 is a synthetic tripalmitoylated lipopeptide that acts as a ligand of TLR1/TLR2 by mimicking the acetylated amino terminus of bacterial lipoproteins. Here we found that pretreatment of Pam3CSK4 protected mice from systemic infection of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and enhanced the bacterial clearance in bacteremia model. Pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α, IL-6, MCP-1 and IFN-γ were significantly decreased in serum from Pam3CSK4-treated mice. Besides, upon PamCSK4 treatment, the TLR2 expression was down-regulated, IRAK1 phosphorylation was inhibited, and the expression of IRAK-M and Tollip, two negative regulators of NF-κB pathway, was up-regulated. All of these indicated that Pam3CSK4 attenuated inflammation via inhibiting TLR1/TLR2 and the downstream NF-κB pathways, and suggested that Pam3CSK4 could be a potential immune modulator for MRSA systemic infection.
Immune response in the lung has to protect the huge alveolar surface against pathogens while securing the delicate lung structure. Macrophages and alveolar epithelial cells constitute the first line of defense and together orchestrate the initial steps of host defense. In this study, we analysed the influence of macrophages on type II alveolar epithelial cells during Legionella pneumophila-infection by a systems biology approach combining experimental work and mathematical modelling. We found that L. pneumophila-infected THP-1-derived macrophages provoke a pro-inflammatory activation of neighboring lung epithelial cells, but in addition render them hypo-responsive to direct infection with the same pathogen. We generated a kinetic mathematical model of macrophage activation and identified a paracrine mechanism of macrophage-secreted IL-1β inducing a prolonged IRAK-1 degradation in lung epithelial cells. This intercellular crosstalk may help to avoid an overwhelming inflammatory response by preventing excessive local secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and thereby negatively regulating the recruitment of immune cells to the site of infection. This suggests an important but ambivalent immunomodulatory role of macrophages in lung infection.
MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) regulates multiple immune diseases. However, the role of miR-146a in diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) has not been investigated. We found that mice (db/db) with type 2 diabetes exhibited substantial downregulation of miR-146a in sciatic nerve tissue. Systemic administration of miR-146a mimics to diabetic mice elevated miR-146a levels in plasma and sciatic nerve tissue and substantially increased motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities by 29 and 11%, respectively, and regional blood flow by 50% in sciatic nerve tissue. Treatment with miR-146a mimics also considerably decreased the response in db/db mice to thermal stimuli thresholds. Histopathological analysis showed that miR-146a mimics markedly augmented the density of fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran-perfused blood vessels and increased the number of intraepidermal nerve fibers, myelin thickness, and axonal diameters of sciatic nerves. In addition, miR-146a treatment reduced and increased classically and alternatively activated macrophage phenotype markers, respectively. Analysis of miRNA target array revealed that miR-146a mimics greatly suppressed expression of many proinflammatory genes and downstream related cytokines. Collectively, our data indicate that treatment of diabetic mice with miR-146a mimics robustly reduces DPN and that suppression of hyperglycemia-induced proinflammatory genes by miR-146a mimics may underlie its therapeutic effect.
Upon stimulation of toll-like receptors with various microbial ligands, induction of a variety of inflammatory genes is elicited by activation of a myeloid differentiation primary-response protein 88 (MyD88)-dependent signaling pathway. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) plays an essential role in this pathway by activating nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and mitogen-activated kinases (MAPKs). Here, we identified optineurin (OPTN) as an IRAK1-binding protein by yeast two-hybrid screening using IRAK1 as bait. A C-terminal fragment of OPTN harboring a ubiquitin-binding domain was co-immunoprecipitated with IRAK1. In reporter analyses, overexpression of OPTN inhibited IL-1β-, IRAK1-, and LPS-induced NF-κB activation. Consistently, OPTN deficiency resulted in increased NF-κB activation in response to IL-1β/LPS stimulation. To address the mechanisms underlying the inhibitory effect of OPTN on NF-κB signaling, we focused on tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), which is an adaptor protein of IRAK1 and upon polyubiquitination plays a crucial role during NF-κB activation. Overexpression of OPTN prevented TRAF6 polyubiquitination. Furthermore, OPTN H486R mutant, which is unable to recruit the deubiquitinase CYLD, failed to inhibit IRAK1-induced NF-κB activation. These results suggest that the IRAK1-binding protein OPTN negatively regulates IL-1β/LPS-induced NF-κB activation by preventing polyubiquitination of TRAF6.
Microorganisms are known to devise various strategies to thwart protective responses by the host. One such strategy is to incorporate sequences and domains in their genes/proteins that have similarity to various domains of the host proteins. In this study, we report that Mycobacterium tuberculosis protein Rv3529c exhibits significant similarity to the death domain of the TLR pathway adaptor protein MyD88. Incubation of macrophages with Rv3529c specifically inhibited TLR2-mediated proinflammatory responses. This included attenuated oxidative burst, reduced phosphorylation of MAPK-ERK, reduced activation of transcription factor NF-κB and reduced secretion of proinflammatory cytokines IFN-γ, IL-6, and IL-17A with a concomitant increased secretion of suppressor cytokines IL-10 and TGF-β. Importantly, Rv3529c significantly inhibited TLR2-induced association of MyD88 with IRAK1 by competitively binding with IRAK1. Further, Rv3529c mediated inhibition of apoptosis and phagosome-lysosome fusion. Lastly, incubation of macrophages with Rv3529c increased bacterial burden inside macrophages. The data presented show another strategy evolved by M. tuberculosis toward immune evasion that centers on incorporating sequences in proteins that are similar to crucial proteins in the innate immune system of the host.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess whether microRNA-146a and its adapter proteins TNF receptor associated factor6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK1) may be changed in the kidney of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, following regular moderate exercise.METHODS: Forty adult male Wistar rats were allocated randomly into four groups (n=10), including sedentary control (SC), sedentary diabetic (SD), healthy sixty-day exercise (H60E), and diabetic sixty-day exercise (D60E) groups. Diabetes was induced by an intraperitoneal injection of 60 mg/kg streptozotocin. After 48 h, blood glucose levels >250 mg/dl was included to diabetic rats. After 2 days of diabetes induction, the exercise protocol began. Animals were exposed to 5 days of consecutive treadmill exercise for 60 min/day with the 22 m/min speed for 60 days. The kidneys of the rats were removed and microRNA was extracted from them using the miRCURYTM RNA isolation kit.RESULTS: In diabetic rats, statistical analysis revealed a significant decrease in miR-146a expression, non-significant decrease in IRAK1 mRNA expression, and non-significant increase in TRAF6 and NF-kB mRNA expression compared to the SC group. Exercise led to a non-significant increase in the expression of miR-146a and NF-kB mRNA in the kidneys of the diabetic group as compared to the SD group, significant increase in TRAF6 and IRAK1 mRNA expression compared to the H60E group, and significant increase in TRAF6 mRNA expression compared to the SD group.CONCLUSION: The present data indicate that exercise might be able to help in the prevention in the diabetic nephropathy development.
Preterm birth continues to be a significant global health care issue, due to our lack of understanding of the mechanisms that drive human labour and delivery. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are essential in triggering an inflammatory response in human gestational tissues, leading to the production of pro-inflammatory and pro-labour mediators, and thus preterm birth. The aims of this study were to determine whether the adaptor molecules associated with TLR2, TLR3 and TLR5 signalling are involved in human myometrium. Primary human myometrial cells were transfected with siRNA against TIRAP, IRAK1, IRAK4, TAK1and stimulated with bacterial product fsl-1 (TLR2); TRIF, TRADD, TRAF6, RIP1, TAK1 and stimulated with dsRNA viral analogue poly(I:C) (TLR3); IRAK1, IRAK4, TAK1 and stimulated with bacterial product flagellin (TLR5), and assayed for production of pro-inflammatory and pro-labour mediators. Cells transfected with TIRAP, IRAK1, IRAK4 or TAK1 all showed a decrease in fsl-1-induced expression of cytokines (IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6), chemokines (GRO-α, IL-8, MCP-1), adhesion molecule ICAM-1, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 mRNA and release of PGF2α and MMP-9 expression. Cells transfected with TRIF, TRAF6, RIP1 or TAK1 all decreased production of poly(I:C)-induced IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6, GRO-α, IL-8, MCP-1, ICAM-1 and MMP-9 expression. Cells transfected with IRAK1, IRAK4 or TAK1 all showed decreased expression of flagellin-induced cytokine and chemokine expression, ICAM-1 and MMP-9 expression. Lastly, transfection with these siRNAs decreased fsl-1, poly(I:C) and flagellin-induced NF-κB transcriptional activity. Our study signifies that these adaptor molecules are necessary for the proper production of cytokines, chemokines and pro-labour mediators after TLR ligation.
Background and Aims: Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) is critical for mediating toll-like receptor and interleukin-1 receptor signaling. In this study, we have examined whether IRAK-1 expression is altered in high glucose (HG)-stimulated human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs), and whether microRNAs (miRs) target IRAK-1 to regulate HG-induced endothelial inflammation. Methods: HAECs were treated with HG for 24 and 48 h. Real-time PCR, Western blot, monocyte adhesion assay, bioinformatics analysis, TaqMan® arrays, microRNA mimic or inhibitor transfection, luciferase reporter assay and siRNA IRAK-1 transfection were performed. The aortic tissues from db/db type 2 diabetic mice were examined by immunohistochemistry staining. Results: HG time-dependently increased IRAK-1 mRNA and protein levels in HAECs, and was associated with increased VCAM-1/ICAM-1 gene expression and monocyte adhesion. Bioinformatic analysis, TaqMan® arrays, and real-time PCR were used to confirm that miR-146a-5p, miR-339-5p, and miR-874-3p were significantly downregulated in HG-stimulated HAECs, suggesting impaired feedback restraints on HG-induced endothelial inflammation via IRAK-1. However, only miR-146a-5p mimic transfection reduced the HG-induced upregulation of IRAK-1 expression, VCAM-1/ICAM-1 expression, and monocyte adhesion. Additionally, IRAK-1 depletion reduced HG-induced VCAM-1/ICAM-1 gene expression, and monocyte adhesion, indicating that HG-induced endothelial inflammation was mediated partially through IRAK-1. In vivo, intravenous injections of miR-146a-5p mimic prevented endothelial IRAK-1 and ICAM-1 expression in db/db mice. Conclusion: These results suggest that miR-146a-5p is involved in the regulation of HG-induced endothelial inflammation via modulation of IRAK-1; indicating that miR-146a-5p may be a novel target for the treatment of diabetic vascular complications.
The study aims to explore how microRNA-146a/b (miR-146a/b) regulates the function of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) in acute ischemic stroke in mice. Eighty male SPF C57BL/6J mice were evenly divided into the model-6 h, model-12 h, model-24 h (mice suffered from middle cerebral artery occlusion [MCAO] for 6 h, 12 h and model-24 h) and normal groups. EPCs were transfected and assigned into the control, MCAO, MCAO-miR-146a, MCAO-miR-146b and MCAO-miR-146a/b groups. The qRT-PCR was used to detect miR-146a/b expression in EPCs. Expressions of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) were detected using western blotting. Cell proliferation and migration of EPCs were testified using CCK-8 assay and scratch test, respectively. Angiogenesis ability of EPCs was observed under microscope. MiR-146a and miR-146b expressions were lower in the model groups than the normal group. There were up-regulated TRAF6 and IRAK1 expressions in the model-6 h, model-12 h and model-24 h groups compared with the normal group. And there were down-regulated TRAF6 and IRAK1 expressions in the MCAO-miR-146a, MCAO-miR-146b and MCAO-miR-146a/b groups than in the MCAO group. Compared with the control group, the proliferation, migration and angiogenesis ability of EPCs were significantly lower in the MCAO group, but higher in the MCAO-miR-146a, MCAO-miR-146b and MCAO-miR-146a/b groups. Besides, the miR-146a/b group showed more enhancement than the MCAO-miR-146a and MCAO-miR-146b groups. MiR-146a/b could down-regulate the TRAF6 and IRAK1 expressions and promote proliferation, migration and angiogenesis ability of EPCs, which was important for recovery of patients with hyperacute ischemic stroke.
microRNA-146a (miR-146a) has been previously implicated as an essential molecular brake, preventing immune overreaction and malignant transformation by attenuating NF-κB signaling, putatively via repression of the Traf6 and Irak1 genes. The exact contribution of miR-146a-mediated silencing of these genes to the control of immune activation is currently unknown. Therefore, we defined the role of the miR-146a-Traf6 signaling axis in the regulation of immune homeostasis using a genetic epistasis analysis in miR-146a-/- mice. We have uncovered a surprising separation of functions at the level of miR-146a targets. Lowering the Traf6 gene dose and consequent attenuation of NF-κB activation rescued several significant miR-146a-/- phenotypes, such as splenomegaly, aberrant myeloproliferation, and excessive inflammatory responses. In contrast, decreasing Traf6 expression had no effect on the development of the progressive bone marrow failure phenotype, as well as lymphomagenesis in miR-146a-/- mice, indicating that miR-146a controls these biological processes through different molecular mechanisms.
PURPOSE: To investigate the expression and function of IRAK1 and IRAK4 involved in the development of Behcet's disease.METHODS: Twenty-eight Behcet's patients and thirty-two normal subjects were involved in this study. The mRNA levels of IRAK1 and IRAK4 from active Behcet's patients, inactive Behcet's patients and normal controls were detected using real-time quantitative PCR. CD4+T cells were extracted from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of active Behcet's patients and normal controls. After coculturing IRAK1/4 inhibitor with CD4+T cells in the presence of rIL-18 protein or rIL-1β protein for 3 days, the proliferation of CD4+T cells was measured using a modified MTT assay. Meanwhile, the levels of IFN-γ and IL-17 were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.RESULTS: The mRNA levels of IRAK1 and IRAK4 were both significantly increased in active Behcet's patients compared with those of inactive Behcet's patients and normal subjects. However, there was no difference of IRAK1 mRNA level or the IRAK4 mRNA level between the inactive Behcet's patients and normal controls. After coculturing with IRAK1/4 inhibitor, the proliferation of the CD4+T cells was inhibited both in active Behcet's patients and in normal controls. Meanwhile, the expression of IFN-γ and IL-17 was also suppressed by IRAK1/4 inhibitor both in active Behcet's patients and in normal subjects.CONCLUSION: The high mRNA levels of IRAK1 and IRAK4 were correlated with the development of Behcet's disease, which suggested that IRAK1 and IRAK4 might participate in the pathogenesis of Behcet's disease. The inhibitory function of IRAK1/4 inhibitor prompts that it may be a new therapeutic target for treating this blindness disease.
A key physiological feature of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is inflammation. Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling is required to combat the infection that underlies many ARDS cases but also contributes to pathological inflammation. Several TLR signaling pathway genes encoding positive effectors of inflammation also produce alternatively spliced mRNAs encoding negative regulators of inflammation. An imbalance between these isoforms could contribute to pathological inflammation and disease severity. To determine whether splicing in TLR pathways is altered in patients with ARDS, we monitored alternative splicing of MyD88 and IRAK1, two genes that function in multiple TLR pathways. The MyD88 and IRAK1 genes produce long proinflammatory mRNAs (MyD88L and IRAK1) and shorter anti-inflammatory mRNAs (MyD88S and IRAK1c). We quantified mRNA encoding inflammatory cytokines and MyD88 and IRAK1 isoforms in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 104 patients with ARDS and 30 healthy control subjects. We found that MyD88 pre-mRNA splicing is altered in patients with ARDS in a proinflammatory direction. We also observed altered MyD88 isoform levels in a second critically ill patient cohort, suggesting that these changes may not be unique to ARDS. Early in ARDS, PBMC IRAK1c levels were associated with patient survival. Despite the similarities in MyD88 and IRAK1 alternative splicing observed in previous in vitro studies, there were differences in how MyD88 and IRAK1 alternative splicing was altered in patients with ARDS. We conclude that pre-mRNA splicing of TLR signaling genes is altered in patients with ARDS, and further investigation of altered splicing may lead to novel prognostic and therapeutic approaches.
Porcine parvovirus virus (PPV) is an animal virus that has caused high economic losses for the swine industry worldwide. Previous studies demonstrated that PPV infection induced significant production of interleukin 6 (IL-6) in vitro and in vivo. However, the inflammatory cytokines and specific signaling pathways induced during PPV infection remain largely unknown. In the present study, we analyzed the expression levels of IL-6 in PPV-infected porcine kidney 15 (PK-15) and the results showed that PPV infection induced the increase of IL-6 mRNA expression in a dose-dependent manner. We also detected the expression of toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) signaling proteins in the mRNA expressing level, when compared with the control group, the TLR9 expression in mRNA level increased at 24h in PK-15 cells after PPV infection and reached the peak level at 48h. In addition, the transcript profile of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signal pathway relating genes (MyD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1α, IκBκB and NF-κB) expression levels increased at different times. Furthermore, to verify the IL-6 expression was specific with the TLR9 expression and then by activating the NF-κB signal pathway, TLR9 and NF-κB specific inhibitors were applied during PPV infection, separately, the result indicated that the expression of IL-6 was decreased after inhibitor treatment. Taken together, PPV infection significantly induced IL-6 expression and this induction depended on NF-κB activation and TLR9 signaling pathways in PK-15 cell.
Liver fibrosis is characterized by proliferation and activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Transforming growth factor-β1 (TGFβ1) is crucial for liver fibrogenesis, and gut-derived endotoxin (LPS) also plays an important role in liver fibrogenesis. In the present study, we found that microRNA-146a-5p (miR-146a-5p) could regulate TGFβ1/Smad and LPS/NF-κB/Bambi pathways to attenuate liver fibrosis. Downregulated miR-146a-5p and upregulated level of LPS were found in liver of CCl4-treated rats. On cellular level, expression of miR-146a-5p is reduced during primary rat HSCs naturally activation and changed in response to TGFβ1 and/or LPS stimulation in primary rat HSCs and human HSC line LX-2. Further overexpression of miR-146a-5p suppresses proliferation and activation of HSCs. The underlying mechanism involved that miR-146a-5p directly suppresses profibrogenic effects of TGFβ1 by down-regulating the expression of Smad4 and phosphorylation of Smad2. Moreover, miR-146a-5p indirectly suppresses TGFβ1/Smad pathway by targeting IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor associated factor-6 (TRAF6), two major components of LPS/NF-κB/Bambi pathway, to reduce inhibition of TGFβ pseudoreceptor Bambi. These results indicate that miR-146a-5p abrogate hepatic fibrosis by suppressing both TGFβ/Smad and LPS/NF-κB/Bambi signaling pathway in HSCs and suggest that miR-146a-5p is a potential therapeutic target for liver fibrosis.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA)-induced keratitis is one of the most common and destructive bacterial diseases. The pathogenesis of PA infections is closely associated with excessive inflammatory responses. Nucleotide oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor (NLR) family with caspase activation and recruitment domain (CARD) containing 3 (NLRC3) protein has been implicated as a negative regulator of inflammation and antiviral response, but the role of NLRC3 in PA-induced keratitis has not been described. In the present study, we investigated the effects of NLRC3 in PA-induced keratitis and explored the underlying mechanism. We found that the expression of NLRC3 was decreased in mouse corneas and macrophages after PA infection. Overexpr-ession of NLRC3 significantly attenuated disease progression, inhibited the activation of nuclear factor-κB signaling and decreased the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines after PA infection. Furthermore, overexpression of NLRC3 promoted K48-linked polyubiquitination and degradation of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). Taken together, we demonstrated that NLRC3 has an anti-inflammatory effect on PA-induced keratitis, which may provide an improved understanding of host resistance to PA infection.
BACKGROUND: miR-146a and miR-155 are key regulators of the innate immune response. We hypothesized that an inflammation-mediated dysregulation of these miRNAs may occur in patients with Down syndrome (DS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD).METHODS: The miRNA expression patterns were investigated by in situ hybridization in developing hippocampus from controls, patients with DS and in adults with AD pathology (DS and sporadic AD; sAD). Quantitative real-time PCR was employed to evaluate the miRNA levels in the hippocampus of sAD and in mouse models of DS and AD. Both miRNAs were expressed in prenatal human hippocampus. In DS we detected increased miR-146a expression in reactive astrocytes. Increased expression of miR-146a was found in the hippocampus of sAD and negatively correlated with its target IRAK-1. APP/PS1 mice showed a significant increase in the expression of both miRNAs at 11-13 months of age as compared to WT and mice at 3 months. A negative correlation between miR-146a levels and its target TRAF6 was observed in both Ts65Dn and APP/PS1 mice.CONCLUSION: These findings suggest a possible involvement of miR-146a and miR-155 in brain development and neurodegeneration. In particular, we provide evidence of a dysregulation of these two immunomodulatory miRNAs in AD with a potential therapeutical implication, deserving further investigation.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of the Toll‑like receptor (TLR)4 signaling pathway in cellular response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in rat pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) rats were established with passive inhaling cigarette smoke plus injection of LPS. The TLR4 protein in lung tissues was determined with immunohistochemical staining and protein levels of the components of the TLR4 pathway in PASMCs were analyzed with western blotting. The production of interferon (IFN)‑γ upon LPS stimulation in PASMCs was measured with ELISA. TLR4 expression in lung tissue from COPD rats was increased obviously compared with that in normal group. LPS enhances TLR4 expression in rat PASMCs and induced production of IFN‑γ dramatically. LPS treatment resulted in increased phosphor‑interleukin‑1 receptor‑associated kinase (IRAK), IκB and IκB kinase, as well as the total protein of nuclear factor (NF)‑κB p65. TLR4 inhibitor TAK‑242, IRAK1/4 inhibitor and NF‑κB inhibitor Bay 117082 were capable of suppressing the effects of LPS. TLR4 signaling pathway is functional in PASMCs, and may be involved in the inflammatory response during the pathogenesis of COPD.
To address how interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is controlled by other enzymes activated by toll-like receptor (TLR) 4, we investigated the possibility that spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk), a protein tyrosine kinase that is activated at an earlier stage during TLR4 activation, plays a central role in regulating the functional activation of IRAK1. Indeed, we found that overexpression of myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88), an adaptor molecule that drives TLR signaling, induced IRAK1 expression and that piceatannol, a Syk inhibitor, successfully suppressed the MyD88-dependent upregulation of IRAK1 under LPS treatment conditions. Interestingly, in Syk-knockout RAW264.7 cells, IRAK1 activity was almost completely blocked after LPS treatment, while providing a Syk-recovery gene to the knockout cells successfully restored IRAK1 expression. According to our measurements of IRAK1 mRNA levels, the transcriptional upregulation of IRAK1 was induced by LPS treatment between 4 and 60 min, and this can be suppressed in Syk knockout cells, providing an effect similar that that seen under piceatannol treatment. The overexpression of Syk reverses this effect and leads to a significantly higher IRAK1 mRNA level. Collectively, our results strongly suggest that Syk plays a critical role in regulating both the activity and transcriptional level of IRAK1.
Acetaminophen (APAP) is a widely used antipyretic and analgesic drug, which is safe and effective at the therapeutic dose. Unfortunately, excessive dosage of APAP could cause severe liver injury due to lack of effective therapy. Successful therapeutic strategies are urgently requested in clinic. Glycyrrhetinic acid (GA), derived from a traditional medicine licorice, has been shown to exert anti-inflammatory and antioxidant actions. In this study, the effect and the underlying mechanism of GA on APAP-induced hepatotoxicity were explored. Our results showed that pretreatment with GA significantly reduced serum ALT and AST activities, alleviated hepatic pathological damages with hepatocellular apoptosis, down-regulated expression of CYP2E1 mRNA and protein, increased GSH levels, and reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) productions in the liver of APAP-exposed mice. Furthermore, GA obviously inhibited APAP-induced HMGB1-TLR4 signal activation, as evaluated by reduced hepatic HMGB1 release, p-IRAK1, p-MAPK and p-IκB expression as well as the productions of TNF-α and IL-1β. In addition, GA attenuated hepatic neutrophils recruitment and macrophages infiltration caused by APAP. These findings reflected that GA could alleviate APAP-induced hepatotoxicity, the possible mechanism is associated with down-regulation of CYP2E1 expression and deactivation of HMGB1-TLR4 signal pathway.
The mumps virus (MuV) small hydrophobic protein (SH) is a type I membrane protein expressed in infected cells. SH has been reported to interfere with innate immunity by inhibiting tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)-mediated apoptosis and NF-κB activation. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, we generated recombinant MuVs (rMuVs) expressing the SH protein with an N-terminal FLAG epitope or lacking SH expression due to the insertion of three stop codons into the SH gene. Using these viruses, we were able to show that SH reduces the phosphorylation of IKKβ, IκBα, and p65 as well as the translocation of p65 into the nucleus of infected A549 cells. Reporter gene assays revealed that SH interferes not only with TNF-α-mediated NF-κB activation but also with IL-1β- and poly(I·C)-mediated NF-κB activation, and that this inhibition occurs upstream of the NF-κB pathway components TRAF2, TRAF6, and TAK1. Since SH coimmunoprecipitated with tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1), RIP1, and IRAK1, we hypothesize that SH exerts its inhibitory function by interacting with TNFR1, interleukin-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1), and TLR3 complexes in the plasma membrane of infected cells.IMPORTANCE The MuV SH has been shown to impede TNF-α-mediated NF-κB activation and is therefore thought to contribute to viral immune evasion. However, the mechanisms by which SH mediates NF-κB inhibition remained largely unknown. In this study, we show that SH interacts with TNFR1, IL-1R1, and TLR3 complexes in infected cells. We thereby not only shed light on the mechanisms of SH-mediated NF-κB inhibition but also reveal that SH interferes with NF-κB activation induced by interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and double-stranded RNA.
Anemarrhena asphodeloides (AA, family Liliaceae) inhibits macrophage activation by inhibiting IRAK1 phosphorylation and helper T (Th)17 differentiation. Coptis chinensis (CC, family Ranunculaceae), which inhibits macrophage activation by inhibiting the binding of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on toll-like receptor 4 and inducing regulatory T (Treg) cell differentiation. The mixture of AA and CC (AC-mix) synergistically attenuates 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid or dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis in mice by inhibiting NF-[Formula: see text]B activation and regulating Th17/Treg balance. In the present study, we examined the effect of AC-mix on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced colitis in mice, which induced NF-[Formula: see text]B activation and disturbed Th17/Treg balance. Long-term feeding of HFD in mice caused colitis, including increased macroscopic score and myeloperoxidase activity. Oral administration of AC-mix (20[Formula: see text]mg/kg) suppressed HFD-induced myeloperoxidase activity by 68% ([Formula: see text]). Furthermore, treatment with the AC-mix (20[Formula: see text]mg/kg) inhibited HFD-induced activation of NF-[Formula: see text]B and expression of cyclooxygenase-2, inducible NO synthase, interleukin (IL)-17, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha but increased HFD- suppressed expression of IL-10. AC-mix suppressed HFD-induced differentiation into Th17 cells by 46% ([Formula: see text]) and increased HFD-induced differentiation into regulatory T cells 2.2-fold ([Formula: see text]). AC-mix also suppressed the HFD-induced Proteobacteria/Bacteroidetes ratio on the gut microbiota by 48% ([Formula: see text]). These findings suggest that AC-mix can ameliorate HFD-induced colitis by regulating innate and adaptive immunities and correcting the disturbance of gut microbiota.
PURPOSE: To investigate the protective effect of LPS preconditioning against EIU in rats.METHODS: EIU in Wistar rats was developed by subcutaneous injection of LPS (200 μg). Lower dose of LPS (0.1 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) or its carrier was injected daily for five days before EIU induction. Twenty-four hours after EIU, eyes were examined and then enucleated. The degree of inflammatory reaction was determined by routine histological examinations. Real-time RT-PCR and Western blot were used to determine the activation of NF-kB and expression of IRAK-1, IRAK-4, and IRAK-M Results: Repeated pre-administration of LPS induced a significant reduction in ocular inflammation and the expression of NF-κb p65 in neurons. The expression of IRAK-1 and IRAK-4 was suppressed in endotoxin tolerance group, whereas IRAK-M was increased.CONCLUSIONS: Endotoxin tolerance has a protective effect against EIU, and upregulation of IRAK-M through TLR-signaling pathway is one of the most likely candidates to be involved in the observed phenomenon.
BACKGROUND: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a life threatening human pathogen. It has been found that miRNA146a regulates innate immunity, inflammatory response and antiviral pathway. We evaluated miRNA146a expression by real-time PCR and IL-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) levels by ELISA in serum of 36 HCV viremia patients and 42 age and gender matched healthy controls.RESULTS: miRNA146a expression was significantly higher in HCV patients with a best cut off value 1.63 to discriminate between HCV patients and healthy controls. Meanwhile, it was negatively correlated to IRAK1 and TRAF6 levels and positively correlated to viral load in HCV patients.CONCLUSIONS: miRNA146a has a potential role in HCV infection and viral replication through IRAK1 and TRAF6. It can also serve as a new screening method for HCV.
Chronic inflammation may contribute to insulin resistance via molecular cross-talk between pathways for pro-inflammatory and insulin signaling. Interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) mediates pro-inflammatory signaling via IL-1 receptor/Toll-like receptors, which may contribute to insulin resistance, but this hypothesis is untested. Here, we used male Irak1 null (k/o) mice to investigate the metabolic role of IRAK-1. C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) and k/o mice had comparable body weights on low-fat and high-fat diets (LFD and HFD, respectively). After 12 weeks on LFD (but not HFD), k/o mice (versus WT) had substantially improved glucose tolerance (assessed by the intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test (IPGTT)). As assessed with the hyperinsulinemic euglycemic glucose clamp technique, insulin sensitivity was 30% higher in the Irak1 k/o mice on chow diet, but the Irak1 deletion did not affect IPGTT outcomes in mice on HFD, suggesting that the deletion did not overcome the impact of obesity on glucose tolerance. Moreover, insulin-stimulated glucose-disposal rates were higher in the k/o mice, but we detected no significant difference in hepatic glucose production rates (± insulin infusion). Positron emission/computed tomography scans indicated higher insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in muscle, but not liver, in Irak1 k/o mice in vivo Moreover, insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of Akt was higher in muscle, but not in liver, from Irak1 k/o mice ex vivo In conclusion, Irak1 deletion improved muscle insulin sensitivity, with the effect being most apparent in LFD mice.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is a Ser/Thr kinase having mixed lineage kinase-like and GTPase domains, controlling neurite outgrowth and neuronal cell death. Evidence suggests that LRRK2 is involved in innate immune response signaling, but the underlying mechanism is yet unknown. A novel protein inhibitor of phosphatase 3B, RCAN1, is known to positively regulate inflammatory signaling through modulation of several intracellular targets of interleukins in immune cells. In the present study, we report that LRRK2 phosphorylates RCAN1 (RCAN1-1S) and is markedly up-regulated during interleukin-1β (IL-1β) treatment. During IL-1β treatment, LRRK2-mediated phosphorylation of RCAN1 promoted the formation of protein complexes, including that between Tollip and RCAN1. LRRK2 decreased binding between Tollip and IRAK1, which was accompanied by increased formation of the IRAK1-TRAF6 complex. TAK1 activity was significantly enhanced by LRRK2. Furthermore, LRRK2 enhanced transcriptional activity of NF-κB and cytokine IL-8 production. These findings suggest that LRRK2 might be important in positively modulating IL-1β-mediated signaling through selective phosphorylation of RCAN1.
Comment in    Eur Respir J. 2017 May 23;49(5):
We have developed the first assays that measure the protein kinase activities of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and IRAK4 reliably in human cell extracts, by employing Pellino1 as a substrate in conjunction with specific pharmacological inhibitors of IRAK1 and IRAK4. We exploited these assays to show that IRAK4 was constitutively active and that its intrinsic activity towards Pellino1 was not increased significantly by stimulation with interleukin-1 (IL-1) in IL-1R-expressing HEK293 cells, Pam3CSK4-stimulated human THP1 monocytes or primary human macrophages. Our results, in conjunction with those of other investigators, suggest that the IL-1-stimulated trans-autophosphorylation of IRAK4 is initiated by the myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88-induced dimerization of IRAK4 and is not caused by an increase in the intrinsic catalytic activity of IRAK4. In contrast with IRAK4, we found that IRAK1 was inactive in unstimulated cells and converted into an active protein kinase in response to IL-1 or Pam3CSK4 in human cells. Surprisingly, the IL-1-stimulated activation of IRAK1 was not affected by pharmacological inhibition of IRAK4 and not reversed by dephosphorylation and/or deubiquitylation, suggesting that IRAK1 catalytic activity is not triggered by a covalent modification but by an allosteric mechanism induced by its interaction with IRAK4.
Enterovirus71(EV71), the etiological agent of hand-foot-and-mouth disease, has increasingly become a public health challenge around the world. Type I interferons (IFNs) are an important family of cytokines that regulate innate and adaptive immune responses to pathogens.These pathways are tightly regulated by the host to prevent an inappropriate cellular response, but viruses can modulate these pathways to proliferate and spread. In this study, we demonstrated that EV71 evades the immune surveillance system to proliferate by activating microRNA-21. We demonstrated that EV71 infection upregulates miR-21, which in turn suppresses EV71-triggered type I IFN production, thus promoting EV71 replication. Furthermore, we demonstrated that miR-21 targets the myeloid differentiation factor 88(MyD88) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1(IRAK1), which are involved in EV71-induced type I IFN production.
Our study aimed to assess the influence of common methylprednisolone therapy on innate inflammatory factors in potential brain-dead organ donors (BDDs). The study groups consisted of 50 potential BDDs who received 15 mg/kg/d methylprednisolone and 25 live organ donors (LDs) as control group. Innate immunity gene expression profiling was performed by RT-PCR array. Soluble serum cytokines and chemokines, complement components, heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) and high mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) were measured by ELISA. Surface expression of TLR2 and TLR4 were determined using flow cytometry. Gene expression profiling revealed up-regulation of TLRs 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, MYD88, NF-κB, NF-κB1A, IRAK1, STAT3, JAK2, TNF-α, IL-1β, CD86 and CD14 in the BDD group. Remarkably, the serum levels of C-reactive protein and HSP70 were considerably higher in the BDD group. In addition, serum amounts of IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, HMGB1, HSP70, C3a and C5a, but not IL-8, sCD86 or monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, were significantly increased in the BDD group. Significant differences were observed in flow cytometry analysis of TLR2 and TLR4 between the two groups. In summary, common methylprednisolone therapy in BDDs did not adequately reduce systemic inflammation, which could be due to inadequate doses or inefficient impact on other inflammatory-inducing pathways, for example oxidative stress or production of damage-associated molecules.
Erratum in    Toxicol Lett. 2019 Oct 10;314:187-192.
Cocaine is known to activate microglia both in vitro and in vivo. High expression of microglial Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and their downstream signal transducers play critical roles in determining microglial activation status. Emerging reports have also demonstrated that cocaine can enhance the strength of TLR signaling. Detailed molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon, however, remain elusive. In this study, we investigated the role(s) of miR-124 in regulating microglial TLR4 signaling in the context of cocaine. Herein, we found a dose- and time-dependent upregulation of KLF4 in cocaine-exposed BV-2 cells and rat primary microglial cells (rPMs). KLF4 also identified as a novel 3'-UTR target directly regulated by miR-124. In parallel, miR-124 regulated multiple TLR4 signaling molecules including TLR4, MyD88, TRAF6, and IRAK1. Repeated doses of cocaine (20 mg/kg; i.p.) administration in mice for 7 days further validated the in vitro key findings. Also, miR-124 overexpression significantly blocked the cocaine-mediated upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In contrast, miR-124 overexpression notably increased the expression of anti-inflammatory mediators in cocaine-exposed microglial cells. Intriguingly, stereotactic administration of lentivirus-miR-124 in the striatum significantly inhibited cocaine-mediated microglial activation and locomotor hyperactivity in vivo. In summary, these findings implicate the role of miR-124 in regulating TLR4 signaling, thereby indicating a new pathway responsible for cocaine-mediated microglial activation.
The adaptor protein MyD88 is required for signal transmission by toll-like receptors and receptors of the interleukin-1 family of cytokines. MyD88 signalling triggers the formation of Lys63-linked and Met1-linked ubiquitin (K63-Ub, M1-Ub) chains within minutes. The K63-Ub chains, which are formed by the E3 ubiquitin ligases TRAF6, Pellino1 and Pellino2, activate TAK1, the master kinase that switches on mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase cascades and initiates activation of the canonical IκB kinase (IKK) complex. The M1-Ub chains, which are formed by the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC), bind to the NEMO (NF-κB essential modulator) component of the IKK complex and are required for TAK1 to activate IKKs, but not MAP kinases. An essential E3 ligase-independent role of TRAF6 is to recruit LUBAC into the MyD88 signalling complex, where it recognises preformed K63-Ub chains attached to protein components of these complexes, such as IRAK1 (IL-1 receptor-associated kinase), producing ubiquitin chains containing both types of linkage, termed K63/M1-Ub hybrids. The formation of K63/M1-Ub hybrids, which is a feature of several innate immune signalling pathways, permits the co-recruitment of proteins that interact with either K63-Ub or M1-Ub chains. Two likely roles for K63/M1-Ub hybrids are to facilitate the TAK1-dependent activation of the IKK complex and to prevent the hyperactivation of these kinases by recruiting A20 and A20-binding inhibitor of NF-κB1 (ABIN1). These proteins restrict activation of the TAK1 and IKK complexes, probably by competing with them for binding to K63/M1-Ub hybrids. The formation of K63/M1-Ub hybrids may also regulate the rate at which the ubiquitin linkages in these chains are hydrolysed. The IKK-catalysed phosphorylation of some of its substrates permits their recognition by the E3 ligase SCFβTRCP, leading to their Lys48-linked ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation. Innate immune signalling is therefore controlled by the formation and destruction of three different types of ubiquitin linkage.
AIM: We described earlier a simultaneously increased that the increased expression of miRNA-146a/b was accompanied by an increase in the expression of and TRAF6 and a decrease in the expression of IRAK1 genes in the peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients with primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS) patients. Recently, the expression of EBV encoded. RNA (EBER) was published in the B cells of salivary glands of in pSS. In the present study, we applied an EBV-EBER1 specific synthetic single stranded complementary DNA molecule (EBV-EBER1-cDNA) to test whether any EBER1 related effect exists also in PBMCs of pSS patients.METHODS: In the PBMCs of pSS patients and healthy controls, we investigated in vitro the effects of a synthetic single stranded EBV-EBER1-cDNA molecule, synthetic double-stranded (ds)RNA polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid [poly (I:C)] and polyadenylic acid potassium salt poly-adenylic acid [poly-(A)] on the expression of TRAF6 gene tested by qRTPCR. The release of interferon -α was detected by ELISA.RESULTS: EBV-EBER1-cDNA resulted in a significant reduction in the expression of TRAF6 in the cells of patients, but in the healthy controls not, whereas the treatments with poly (I:C) and poly-(A) could not reduce the TRAF6 over-expression. No release of EBER1 could be observed in the culture supernatants of patients with pSS. Only the treatment with poly (I:C) resulted in a significant increase of interferon -α release, and only in the heathy controls. No release of EBER1 molecules took place during the culturing of cells. EBV-EBER- cDNA acted functionally on the cells of patients only.CONCLUSION: These findings give a further evidence of the linkage between EBV and pSS, furthermore, they show the possible role of EBV-EBER1 in the induction of increased TRAF6 expression in the peripheral B cells of Sjögren's patients.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The roots of Rubia cordifolia L. have been widely used as a traditional herbal medicine in Northeast Asia for treating inflammatory diseases.AIM OF THE STUDY: To elucidate the anti-inflammatory mechanism of 2-carbomethoxy-2,3-epoxy-3- prenyl-1,4-naphthoquinone (CMEP-NQ), purified from the roots of R. cordifolia L. as the major anti-inflammatory component, in LPS-treated RAW264.7 murine macrophage cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Anti-inflammatory activity of CMEP-NQ was investigated in LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells by measuring the levels of NO, PGE2, and cytokines (IL1β, IL-6, TNF-α) in the culture supernatants and the TLR4-mediated intracellular events including association of MyD88 with IRAK1, activation of IRAK1, TAK1, MAPKs, NF-κB/AP-1, and IRF3, and generation of ROS.RESULTS: Pretreatment of RAW264.7 cells with CMEP-NQ reduced LPS-induced production of NO and PGE2 by suppressing iNOS and COX-2 gene expression. CMEP-NQ also reduced the secretion of IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α by down-regulating mRNA levels. Under these conditions, TLR4-mediated MyD88-dependent events were inhibited by CMEP-NQ, including the association of MyD88 with IRAK1, phosphorylation of IRAK1, TAK1, and MAPKs (ERK, JNK and p38 MAPK), and activation of NF-κB and AP-1. As TRIF-dependent events of TLR4 signaling, phosphorylation of IRF3 and induction of iNOS protein expression were also inhibited by CMEP-NQ. However, the binding of FITC-conjugated LPS to cell surface TLR4 was not affected by CMEP-NQ. Following LPS stimulation, intracellular ROS production was first detected by DCFH-DA staining at 1h; then it continuously increased until 16h. Although CMEP-NQ failed to exhibit DPPH radical- or ABTS radical-scavenging activity in vitro, LPS-induced ROS production in RAW264.7 cells was more efficiently blocked by CMEP-NQ than by NAC.CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that the suppressive effect of CMEP-NQ on LPS-induced inflammatory responses in RAW264.7 cells was mainly exerted via its inhibition of TLR4-mediated proximal events, such as MyD88-dependent NF-κB/AP-1 activation and ROS production, and TRIF-dependent IRF3 activation.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Dioscorea nipponica Makino have been extensively used in traditional medicine for the treatment of arthritic diseases, particularly gouty arthritis (GA).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty male Wistar rats were divided into six groups: the normal group, model group, colchicine group (COL) and three total saponin groups (RDN) (high dose [160mg/kg], middle dose [80mg/kg] and low dose [40mg/kg]). The mRNA and protein expression levels of TLR2, TLR4, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1, IKKα, IκBα and NF-κB in the synovial tissue of joint were detected by realtime PCR and WB methods respectively. The contents of IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α in the blood serum were measured by Elisa method. The activation of NF-κB was measured by EMSA method.RESULTS: Our study showed that RDN decreased both the mRNA and protein expressions of TLR2, TLR4, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1, IKKα, IκBα and NF-κB of the synovial tissue of joint of rats induced with monosodium urate crystal (MSU). They could also reduce the levels of IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α in the blood serum. Further, EMSA results showed that RDN reduced the DNA binding ability of NF-κB p65 of model group.CONCLUSION: RDN has the effect of anti-inflammation in MSU-induced GA model. This is realised by influencing an important inflammatory signal pathway which is called TLR2/4-IL1R receptor signal pathway. It highlights the potential utility of RDN for the management of GA.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease predominantly involving the synovial joints and affects up to 1% of adults worldwide. The aim of the present study was to determine whether the interleukin-1 receptor (IL1R)-associated kinase (IRAK1) rs3027898 gene polymorphism confers susceptibility to RA in a sample of patients from Iran. This gene encodes IRAK1, one of two putative serine/threonine kinases that associates with IL1R upon stimulation. IRAK1 is partially responsible for IL-1-induced upregulation of the transcription factor, nuclear factor-κB. The present case-control study was performed on 120 patients with RA and 120 healthy individuals. Genomic DNA was extracted from whole blood, and the gene polymorphism was evaluated using a tetra-primer amplification refractory mutation system-polymerase chain reaction method. The results demonstrated that there was no association between IRAK1 rs3027898 CA genotype and the risk of RA in women (odds ratio=0.72, 95% confidence interval=0.41-1.49; P=0.446). Further studies with larger sample sizes and different ethnicities are required to validate the present findings.
Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) plays a critical role in host defenses against mycobacterial infections. The R753Q TLR2 polymorphism has been associated with increased incidence of tuberculosis and infections with non-tuberculous mycobacteria in human populations, but the mechanisms by which this polymorphism affects TLR2 signaling are unclear. In this study, we determined the impact of the R753Q TLR2 polymorphism on macrophage sensing of Mycobacterium smegmatis Upon infection with M. smegmatis, macrophages from knock-in mice harboring R753Q TLR2 expressed lower levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-10 compared with cells from WT mice, but both R753Q TLR2- and WT-derived macrophages exhibited comparable bacterial burdens. The decreased cytokine responses in R753Q TLR2-expressing macrophages were accompanied by impaired phosphorylation of IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1), p38, ERK1/2 MAPKs, and p65 NF-κB, suggesting that the R753Q TLR2 polymorphism alters the functions of the myeloid differentiation primary response protein 88 (MyD88)-IRAK-dependent signaling axis. Supporting this notion, HEK293 cells stably transfected with YFP-tagged R753Q TLR2 displayed reduced recruitment of MyD88 to TLR2, decreased NF-κB activation, and impaired IL-8 expression upon exposure to M. smegmatis Collectively, our results indicate that the R753Q polymorphism alters TLR2 signaling competence, leading to impaired MyD88-TLR2 assembly, reduced phosphorylation of IRAK-1, diminished activation of MAPKs and NF-κB, and deficient induction of cytokines in macrophages infected with M. smegmatis.
Cryptococcosis is a significant invasive fungal infection with noteworthy morbidity and mortality that is usually caused by either Cryptococcus neoformans (C. neoformans) or Cryptococcus gattii (C. gattii). Epidemiological studies have indicated that C. neoformans are more often reported in immunocompromised and immunocompetent patients. It has been well established that the cytokine profile of the host markedly affects the outcome of cryptococcal disease, and the negative regulators of microRNAs(miRs or miRNAs) are critically important for immunomodulation. However, the role of miRNAs and the molecular basis of the inflammatory response induced by C. neoformans in monocytes remain unknown. In this study, we identified 7 differentially expressed miRNAs in THP-1 cells exposed to C. neoformans by Illumina sequencing, and confirmed our findings by RT-qPCR. Furthermore, miR‑146a was selected for further analysis to identify the regulatory mechanisms of inflammation induced by C. neoformans. An examination of the function of miR‑146a in monocytes was performed by overexpressing and inhibiting miR‑146a. In addition, we identified a pattern of induction in response to a variety of microbial components and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our data suggested that the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) pathway was required for the induction of miR‑146a, whereas miR‑146a negatively regulated NF-κB activation by targeting interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6), then inhibiting NF-κB activation and the release of inflammatory cytokines in monocytes induced by C. neoformans.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is one of the leading causes of death in systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients. Although all SSc patients are characterized by autoimmunity, only part of them suffer from PF, suggesting that beside autoimmunity, some additional factors are involved in the initiation of PF in SSc. In this study, we aimed to identify genetic polymorphisms associated with the status of PF in SSc. We performed that an exhaustive search of the PubMed database was performed to identify eligible studies. Then, a comprehensive meta-analysis was performed by comparing PF+-SSc and PF--SSc patients to identify genetic polymorphisms associated with the status of PF in SSc. Among eight SSc-associated susceptibility polymorphisms which were applied for meta-analysis, IRF5 rs2004640 polymorphism (OR 1.12; 95% CI 1.02-1.22, P = 1.39 × 10-2), STAT4 rs7574865 polymorphism (OR 1.25; 95% CI 1.07-1.47, P = 5.3 × 10-3), IRAK1 rs1059702 polymorphism (OR 1.20; 95% CI 1.05-1.37, P = 0.007), and CTGF G-945C polymorphism (OR 1.42; 95% CI 1.18-1.71, P = 0.002) are associated with PF status in SSc, while TNFAIP3 rs5029939, CD226 rs763361, CD247 rs2056626, and IRF5 rs10488631 polymorphisms are not. Since IRF5, STAT4, and IRAK1 are important regulatory factors in the control of innate immune responses and CTGF is involved in the synthesis of extracellular matrix, these results suggest a role of the innate immunity and matrix compounds in the pathogenesis of PF in SSc.
It has been suggested that Toll-like receptor (TLR)4 promotes IL-10-mediated cardiac cell survival, whereas another receptor, TLR2, from the same family, is detrimental. Here, we examined the interactive role of these two innate signaling molecules under stressful conditions, including IL-10 knockout (IL-10-/-) mice, global ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in rat hearts, and in vitro short hairpin RNA experimental models in the presence or absence of IL-10 (10 ng/ml). Circulating and myocardial levels of TNF-α as well as apoptosis and fibrosis were higher in IL-10-/- mice. The increase in TLR2 in IL-10-/- hearts indicated its negative regulation by IL-10. Ex vivo I/R also caused a marked upregulation of TLR2 and TNF-α as well as apoptotic and fibrotic signals. However, a 40-min reperfusion with IL-10 triggered an increase in TLR4 expression and improved recovery of cardiac function. The increase in IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-M and IRAK-2 activity during I/R injury suggested their role in TLR2 signaling. In vitro inhibition of TLR4 activity as a consequence of RNA inhibition-mediated suppression of myeloid differentiation gene (MyD)88 suggested MyD88-dependent activation of TLR4. The inclusion of IL-10 during reperfusion also downregulated the expression of IRAK-2, TNF-α receptor-associated factor 1-interacting protein (TRAIP) and apoptotic signals, caspase-3, and the Bax-to-Bcl-xL ratio. IL-10 reduced the TNF-α receptor-associated increase in TRAIP-induced apoptosis during I/R injury, which led to an increase in IL-1β to mitigate transforming growth factor-β receptor type I-mediated fibrosis. The IL-10 mitigation of these changes suggests that the stimulation through TLR4 signaling promotes IRAK-4 and phosphorylates IRAK-1 instead of IRAK-2 and may be an important therapeutic approach in restoring heart health in stress.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Under stress conditions such as downregulation of the IL-10 gene or ischemia-reperfusion injury, Toll-like receptor (TLR)4 and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 activation is suppressed, along with the upregulation of TLR-2 and IRAK-2, resulting in fibrosis and apoptosis. It is suggested that IL-10 helps to maintain heart function during stress via myeloid differentiation gene 88/IRAK-4/IRAK-1-dependent TLR4 signaling.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune inflammatory disease and currently has no effective therapy. The genome-wide analyses indicate that interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is associated with the susceptibility of SLE in humans. In the present study, we identified that IRAK1 was overexpressed and hyper-activated in splenic mononuclear cells from B6.MRL-Faslpr/Nju (B6.lpr) mice and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from SLE patients. Intraperitoneal treatment with a small molecular inhibitor of IRAK1 (IRAK1/4 inhibitor or IRAK-Inh) significantly mitigated inflammatory responses and renal injury in B6.lpr mice. IRAK-Inh treatment or knockdown of IRAK1 by specific siRNA decreased the relative levels of NF-κBp65 phosphorylation in human PBMCs from SLE patients. Therefore, IRAK1 may be a potential target for anti-inflammatory therapy for SLE and other inflammatory diseases.
It is widely accepted that the essential role of TRAF6 in vivo is to generate the Lys63-linked ubiquitin (K63-Ub) chains needed to activate the "master" protein kinase TAK1. Here, we report that TRAF6 E3 ligase activity contributes to but is not essential for the IL-1-dependent formation of K63-Ub chains, TAK1 activation, or IL-8 production in human cells, because Pellino1 and Pellino2 generate the K63-Ub chains required for signaling in cells expressing E3 ligase-inactive TRAF6 mutants. The IL-1-induced formation of K63-Ub chains and ubiquitylation of IRAK1, IRAK4, and MyD88 was abolished in TRAF6/Pellino1/Pellino2 triple-knockout (KO) cells, but not in TRAF6 KO or Pellino1/2 double-KO cells. The reexpression of E3 ligase-inactive TRAF6 mutants partially restored IL-1 signaling in TRAF6 KO cells, but not in TRAF6/Pellino1/Pellino2 triple-KO cells. Pellino1-generated K63-Ub chains activated the TAK1 complex in vitro with similar efficiently to TRAF6-generated K63-Ub chains. The early phase of TLR signaling and the TLR-dependent secretion of IL-10 (controlled by IRAKs 1 and 2) was only reduced modestly in primary macrophages from knockin mice expressing the E3 ligase-inactive TRAF6[L74H] mutant, but the late-phase production of IL-6, IL-12, and TNFα (controlled only by the pseudokinase IRAK2) was abolished. RANKL-induced signaling in macrophages and the differentiation of bone marrow to osteoclasts was similar in TRAF6[L74H] and wild-type cells, explaining why the bone structure and teeth of the TRAF6[L74H] mice was normal, unlike TRAF6 KO mice. We identify two essential roles of TRAF6 that are independent of its E3 ligase activity.
Apigenin (4',5,7,-trihydroxyflavone) is a flavonoid found in certain herbs, fruits, and vegetables. Apigenin can attenuate inflammation, which is associated with many chronic diseases of aging. Senescent cells-stressed cells that accumulate with age in mammals-display a pro-inflammatory senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) that can drive or exacerbate several age-related pathologies, including cancer. Flavonoids, including apigenin, were recently shown to reduce the SASP of a human fibroblast strain induced to senesce by bleomycin. Here, we confirm that apigenin suppresses the SASP in three human fibroblast strains induced to senesce by ionizing radiation, constitutive MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) signaling, oncogenic RAS, or replicative exhaustion. Apigenin suppressed the SASP in part by suppressing IL-1α signaling through IRAK1 and IRAK4, p38-MAPK, and NF-κB. Apigenin was particularly potent at suppressing the expression and secretion of CXCL10 (IP10), a newly identified SASP factor. Further, apigenin-mediated suppression of the SASP substantially reduced the aggressive phenotype of human breast cancer cells, as determined by cell proliferation, extracellular matrix invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Our results support the idea that apigenin is a promising natural product for reducing the impact of senescent cells on age-related diseases such as cancer.
Infection with the mosquito transmitted dengue virus (DENV) remains a significant worldwide public health problem. While the majority of infections are asymptomatic, infection can result in a range of symptoms. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression through repression or degradation of mRNAs. To understand the contribution of miRNAs to DENV 2 replication, we screened a number of candidate miRNAs for variations in expression levels during DENV 2 infection of HepG2 (liver) cells. Seven miRNAs were identified as differentially expressed, and one, miR-21, was differentially expressed at all time points examined. Interestingly, miR-21 was also differentially regulated in DENV 2 infection under conditions of antibody dependent enhancement of infection, and in direct Zika virus infection, but not in DENV 4 infection. The role of miR-21 during DENV infection was further examined by treating HepG2 cells with an anti-miR-21 (AMO-21) before DENV infection. The results showed a significant reduction in DENV 2 production, clearly suggesting that miR-21 plays a key role in DENV 2 replication. To further confirm the role of miR-21 in DENV infection, a peptide nucleic acid-21 (PNA-21) construct with a nucleotide sequence complementary to AMO-21, was co-administered with AMO-21 as an AMO-21/PNA-21 complex followed by DENV 2 infection. The results showed that AMO-21 significantly reduced DENV 2 titer, PNA-21 significantly increased DENV 2 titer and the combined AMO-21/PNA-21 showed no difference from non-treated infection controls. Taken together, the results show that miR-21 promotes DENV 2 replication, and this mechanism could serve as a possible therapeutic intervention point.
Root resorption is a pathological process of multifactorial origin related to the permanent loss of dental root structure in response to a mechanical, inflammatory, autoimmune or infectious stimulus. External apical root resorption (EARR) is a frequent clinical complication secondary to orthodontic tooth movement; apart from variables related to treatment, environmental factors and/or interindividual genetic variations can confer susceptibility or resistance to its occurrence. In this context, genetic predisposition has been described as an etiological factor, together with mechanical factors derived from orthodontic treatment. In recent years, international research groups have determined the degree of influence of some genetic biomarkers in defining increased/reduced susceptibility to postorthodontic EARR. The influences of the IL1 gene cluster (IL1B, IL1A, IL1RN, IL6), P2RX7, CASP1, OPG (TNFRSF11B), RANK (TNFRSF11A), Osteopontin (OPN), TNFα, the vitamin D receptor (TaqI), TNSALP and IRAK1 have been analyzed. The objective of the present review study was to compile and analyze the latest information about the genetic background predisposing to EARR during orthodontic treatment. Genetics-based studies along with other basic science research in the field might help to clarify the exact nature of EARR, the influence of genetic inheritance and possibly lead to the prevention or even eradication of this phenomenon during orthodontic treatment.
BACKGROUND: IRAK1 has been repoted to play an essential role in the development of multiple cancers. However, the clinical significance of IRAK1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and the underlying molecular mechanism remain unclear. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the role of IRAK1 in the pathogenesis of HCC in this study.MATERIALS AND METHODS: HCC tissues and para-carcinoma tissues were collected for immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis to evaluate IRAK1 expression. Data of IRAK1 expression were downloaded from the cancer genome atlas (TCGA) for analyzing the clinical significance of IRAK1. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and survival analyses were carried out to assess the diagnostic and prognostic significance of IRAK1 in IHC and TCGA data. Additionally, we investigated the alteration of IRAK1 gene in HCC from cBioPortal to generate a network of the interaction between IRAK1 and the neighboring genes. The influence of IRAK1 gene alteration on the prognosis of HCC patients was evaluated by survival analysis.RESULTS: Analysis of both IHC and TCGA data revealed a significant upregulation of IRAK1 in HCC tissues. The IHC analysis revealed there was an increasing trend in IRAK1 expression among normal liver tissues, liver cirrhosis tissues, para-carcinoma tissues and HCC tissues. The ROC curves for IHC and TCGA data demonstrated that IRAK1 exhibited a significant diagnostic value for HCC. Moreover, IRAK1 expression was observed to be associated with tumor size, metastasis and T-stage. The survival analysis indicated that the upregulation of IRAK1 predicted a worse overall survival of HCC. Additionally, data from cBioPortal confirmed that 29% of HCC tissues possessed an alteration of the IRAK1 gene.CONCLUSION: IRAK1 may act as an oncogene in the development of HCC with its overexpression in HCC. Moreover, IRAK1 might serve as a promising diagnostic and therapeutic target for HCC.
BACKGROUND: Impaired expression and function of microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the pathogenesis of many autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Moreover, there is a close relationship between TLRs and miRNAs and impairment in regulating their expression which can play a vital role in the immunopathogenesis of many inflammatory reactions. This research aimed to study the pharmaceutical effects of M2000 (β-d-mannuronic acid) on the expression of miR-146a and its two target molecules (IRAK1 and TRAF6), and the transcription factor NF-κB in the HEK-Blue hTLR2 cell line.METHODS: The cytotoxicity of M2000 was assessed by the MTT assay, and the qRT-PCR technique was employed in the presence and absence of M2000 treatment to measure gene-expression levels of miR-146a, IRAK1, TRAF6, and NF-κB.RESULTS: MTT assay indicated that M2000 (before the concentration of 500μg/ml) had no cytotoxic effect on HEK-Blue hTLR2 cells. Our results showed that M2000 at low and high doses (5 and 25μg/well) could significantly reduce gene expression levels of miR-146a (p<0.01). Furthermore, it was found that this medication at two different doses could considerably decrease IRAK1 and TRAF6 gene expression (p<0.001). Moreover, this study revealed that expression level of NF-κB also significantly declined at these two doses (p<0.01).CONCLUSIONS: This study for the first time shows that M2000 as a novel NSAID with immunosuppressive properties is able to modify TLR signaling through suppressing the adaptor molecules IRAK1 and TRAF6, the transcription factor NF-κB and miR-146a as a new therapeutic approach.
The potential immunomodulatory role of microRNAs in small intestine of patients with acute watery diarrhea caused by Vibrio cholerae O1 or enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) infection was investigated. Duodenal biopsies were obtained from study-participants at the acute (day 2) and convalescent (day 21) stages of disease, and from healthy individuals. Levels of miR-146a, miR-155 and miR-375 and target gene (IRAK1, TRAF6, CARD10) and 11 cytokine mRNAs were determined by qRT-PCR. The cellular source of microRNAs in biopsies was analyzed by in situ hybridization. The ability of V. cholerae bacteria and their secreted products to cause changes in microRNA- and mRNA levels in polarized tight monolayers of intestinal epithelial cells was investigated. miR-146a and miR-155 were expressed at significantly elevated levels at acute stage of V. cholerae infection and declined to normal at convalescent stage (P<0.009 versus controls; P = 0.03 versus convalescent stage, pairwise). Both microRNAs were mainly expressed in the epithelium. Only marginal down-regulation of target genes IRAK1 and CARD10 was seen and a weak cytokine-profile was identified in the acute infected mucosa. No elevation of microRNA levels was seen in ETEC infection. Challenge of tight monolayers with the wild type V. cholerae O1 strain C6706 and clinical isolates from two study-participants, caused significant increase in miR-155 and miR-146a by the strain C6706 (P<0.01). One clinical isolate caused reduction in IRAK1 levels (P<0.05) and none of the strains induced inflammatory cytokines. In contrast, secreted factors from these strains caused markedly increased levels of IL-8, IL-1β, and CARD10 (P<0.001), without inducing microRNA expression. Thus, miR-146a and miR-155 are expressed in the duodenal epithelium at the acute stage of cholera. The inducer is probably the V. cholerae bacterium. By inducing microRNAs the bacterium can limit the innate immune response of the host, including inflammation evoked by its own secreted factors, thereby decreasing the risk of being eliminated.
BACKGROUND: Loss-of-function mutations in methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2; MIM *300005) results in the Rett syndrome, whereas gain-of-function mutations are associated with the MECP2 duplication syndrome.METHODS: We did research on a family with two brothers showing Xq28 duplication syndrome using various molecular cytogenetic techniques such as multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and array-based genomic hybridization.RESULTS: The duplicated region had several genes including MECP2 and interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1; MIM *300283). MECP2 and IRAK1 were associated with the neurological phenotypes in dose-sensitive and dose-critical manner. The brothers demonstrated severe intellectual disability, autistic features, generalized hypotonia, recurrent infections, epilepsy, choreiform movements such as hand-wringing movement, and moderate increased spasticity with the lower limbs. The X-inactivation test showed a complete skewed X inactivation pattern of mother. In this reason, the mother had the same loci duplication but showed significantly little neurological manifestation compared to the two sons.CONCLUSIONS: MECP2/IRAK1 duplication at Xq28 is inherited as an X-linked recessive trait and male-specific disorder associated with severe intellectual disability. We tried to analyze the information of the relationship between neuropsychiatric phenotype and the extent of duplication at Xq28 by comparing with previous reports.
PURPOSE: Previously, we showed that microRNA-146 (miR-146) is a pivotal negative feedback regulator of multiple nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) activation pathways in retinal endothelial cells (RECs). We hypothesized that miR-146 plays an important role in diabetic retinopathy (DR) by inhibiting diabetes-induced inflammatory response in the retina. The purpose of the current study is to test this hypothesis in vivo.METHODS: Lentiviruses expressing rno-miR-146a, lenti-miR-146a, and negative control oligonucleotide with scrambled sequence, lenti-miR-neg ctl, were produced. Young male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with a single dose of streptozotocin ([STZ] 65 mg/kg) to induce diabetes. One week after diabetes, animals were injected with lentivirus intravitreally (4 μl, ∼106 CFU/mL). Three months after diabetes, retinal microvascular leakage was tested by Evans blue assay; retinal function by electroretinogram (ERG). Total RNA and protein lysate were isolated from the retina for quantitative (q)RT-PCR and Western blot analyses.RESULTS: Lenti-miR-146a robustly transduced human retinal endothelial cells (HRECs) and increased the expression of miR-146a in vitro. In vivo, intravitreal injection of lenti-miR-146a increased the expression of miR-146a in the retina, while its key downstream target genes, including CARD10, IRAK1, and TRAF6, were downregulated. Intravitreal delivery of miR-146 inhibited diabetes-induced upregulation of NF-κB downstream gene, Intercellular Adhesion Molecule 1 (ICAM1), as well as microvascular leakage and retinal functional defects.CONCLUSIONS: Intravitreal delivery of miR-146 inhibited diabetes-induced NF-κB activation and retinal microvascular and neuronal functional defects in a diabetic rat model.
The intestinal epithelium plays a critical role in host-microbe homeostasis by sensing gut microbes and subsequently initiating proper immune responses. During the neonatal stage, the intestinal epithelium is under immune repression, allowing the transition for newborns from a relatively sterile intra-uterine environment to one that is rich in foreign antigens. The mechanism underlying such immune repression remains largely unclear, but involves downregulation of IRAK1 (interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase), an essential component of toll-like receptor-mediated NF-κB signaling. We report here that heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein I (hnRNPI), an RNA binding protein, is essential for regulating neonatal immune adaptation. We generated a mouse model in which hnRNPI is ablated specifically in the intestinal epithelial cells, and characterized intestinal defects in the knockout mice. We found that loss of hnRNPI function in mouse intestinal epithelial cells results in early onset of spontaneous colitis followed by development of invasive colorectal cancer. Strikingly, the epithelium-specific hnRNPI knockout neonates contain aberrantly high IRAK1 protein levels in the colons and fail to develop immune tolerance to environmental microbes. Our results demonstrate that hnRNPI plays a critical role in establishing neonatal immune adaptation and preventing colitis and colorectal cancer.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) 4 mediates host defense against infections. As an active kinase, IRAK4 elicits full spectra of myeloid differentiation primary response protein (MyD) 88-dependent responses, while kinase-inactive IRAK4 induces a subset of cytokines and negative regulators whose expression is not regulated by mRNA stability. IRAK4 kinase activity is critical for resistance against Streptococcus pneumoniae, but its involvement in autoimmunity is incompletely understood. In this study, we determined the role of IRAK4 kinase activity in murine lupus. Lupus development in BXSB mice expressing the Y chromosome autoimmunity accelerator (Yaa) increased basal and Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4/7-induced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases, p65 nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), enhanced tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and C-C motif chemokine ligand (CCL) 5 gene expression in splenic macrophages, but decreased levels of Toll-interacting protein and IRAK-M, without affecting IRAK4 or IRAK1 expression. Mice harboring kinase-inactive IRAK4 on the lupus-prone Yaa background manifested blunted TLR signaling in macrophages and reduced glomerulonephritis, splenomegaly, serum anti-nuclear antibodies, numbers of splenic macrophages, total and TNF-α+ dendritic cells, activated T- and B-lymphocytes, and lower TNF-α expression in macrophages compared with lupus-prone mice with functional IRAK4. Thus, IRAK4 kinase activity contributes to murine lupus and could represent a new therapeutic target.
Next-generation sequencing has revealed recurring somatic mutations in Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM). Commonly recurring mutations include MYD88 (95% to 97%), CXCR4 (30% to 40%), ARID1A (17%), and CD79B (8% to 15%). Diagnostic discrimination of WM from overlapping B-cell malignancies is aided by MYD88 mutation status. Transcription is affected by MYD88 and CXCR4 mutations and includes overexpression of genes involved in VDJ recombination, CXCR4 pathway signaling, and BCL2 family members. Among patients with MYD88 mutations, those with CXCR4 mutations show transcriptional silencing of tumor suppressors associated with acquisition of mutated MYD88. Deletions involving chromosome 6q are common and include genes that modulate nuclear factor-κB, BCL2, BTK, apoptosis, differentiation, and ARID1B. Non-chromosome 6q genes are also frequently deleted and include LYN, a regulator of B-cell receptor signaling. MYD88 and CXCR4 mutations affect WM disease presentation and treatment outcome. Patients with wild-type MYD88 show lower bone marrow disease burden and serum immunoglobulin M levels but show an increased risk of death. Patients with CXCR4 mutations have higher bone marrow disease burden, and those with nonsense CXCR4 mutations have higher serum immunoglobulin M levels and incidence of symptomatic hyperviscosity. Mutated MYD88 triggers BTK, IRAK1/IRAK4, and HCK growth and survival signaling, whereas CXCR4 mutations promote AKT and extracellular regulated kinase-1/2 signaling and drug resistance in the presence of its ligand CXCL12. Ibrutinib is active in patients with WM and is affected by MYD88 and CXCR4 mutation status. Patients with mutated MYD88 and wild-type CXCR4 mutation status exhibit best responses to ibrutinib. Lower response rates and delayed responses to ibrutinib are associated with mutated CXCR4 in patients with WM. MYD88 and CXCR4 mutation status may be helpful in treatment selection for symptomatic patients. Novel therapeutic approaches under investigation include therapeutics targeting MYD88, CXCR4, and BCL2 signaling.
IVIg is used as an immunomodulatory agent in inflammatory disorders such as sepsis. IVIg also affects monocyte differentiation and functions, two processes in which microRNAs play a crucial role. Monocytes detect microorganisms through pathogen recognition receptors (PRRs) such as TLR4. MiR-146a has been shown to supress NF-κB and IRF3 activity, two key components of TLR4 signaling. To evaluate whether miR-146a is involved in the anti-inflammatory effects of IVIg, monocytes were treated with LPS or IVIg alone or, alternately, first activated with LPS followed by washing and addition of IVIg. MiR-146a, IRF3, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, IFN-β, TGF-β1 and IL-1Ra expression was analyzed by qPCR, while IRAK1, TRAF6 and IκBα expression was measured by Western blotting. We found that addition of IVIg to LPS-activated monocytes significantly upregulated the expression of miR-146a, which was associated with a significant reduction in the expression of its targets IRF3 and its regulated gene IFN-β. Furthermore, expression of IRAK1, TRAF6, and consequently NF-κB activation, was also reduced in LPS-activated monocytes following addition of IVIg, whereas TGF-β1, IL-10 and IL-1Ra were increased. Our results thus suggest that miR-146a is a mediator of IVIg effects in inflammatory disorders, point to an important role for miR-146a in the control of inflammation during sepsis and highlight a new mechanism by which IVIg exerts its anti-inflammatory effects in sepsis.
Hyperglycemia induced endothelial injury is a key pathogenetic factor in diabetic cardiomyopathy. In diabetes, changes in pro-inflammatory cytokines are a key mechanism leading to cardiac fibrosis. We have previously demonstrated alteration of miR-146a in chronic diabetic complications. Here, we investigated the role of endothelial miR-146a in mediating inflammation and fibrosis in diabetic cardiomyopathy. To examine the effects of miR-146a on the inflammatory mediators, an endothelial specific miR-146a overexpressing transgenic mice (TG) using tie-2 promoter, was generated. We examined these mice and wild type littermate controls with or without STZ induced diabetes. Transthoracic echocardiography was performed. Cardiac tissues were examined for inflammatory cytokine mRNAs and proteins by real time RT-PCR or ELISA. Cardiac fibrosis was examined by histology staining. Human cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (HCMECs) and primary endothelial cells isolated from mice were used following incubation with various levels of glucose with or without miR-146a mimics or antagomir transfection. In hearts of wild type mice with diabetes, increased expression of inflammatory markers and extracellular matrix proteins (IL6, TNFα, IL-1β, MCP-1, NF-κB, Col1α1, Col4α1) were seen compared to wild type controls. These changes were prevented in the diabetic TG mice. In addition, WT diabetic mice showed cardiac functional abnormalities, which were improved in the diabetic TG mice. In vitro studies showed glucose induced increase the expressions of the above inflammatory cytokines and specific NF-κB regulators (IRAK1 &TRAF6). Such changes were corrected in the HCMECs following miR-146a mimic transfection. These data indicate that in diabetes, increased inflammatory cytokine and extracellular matrix protein productions and associated cardiac functional alterations are regulated by endothelial miR-146a. Identification of such mechanisms may potentially lead to the development of novel RNA based therapeutics.
Author information:(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Yanan Affiliated Hospital of Yanan University. Yanan 716000, Shaanxi Province, China. E-mail:hbo_liu@126.com.
Polymorphisms have been identified in the Xq28 locus as risk loci for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here, we investigated the association between three polymorphisms in the Xq28 region containing TMEM187 and IRAK1 (rs13397, rs1059703, and rs1059702) in two unstudied populations: Tunisian and French. The rs13397 G and rs1059703 T major alleles were significantly increased in RA patients (n = 408) compared with age-matched controls (n = 471) in both Tunisian and French women. These results were confirmed by a meta-analysis replication study including two independent Greek and Korean cohorts. The rs1059702 C major allele was significantly associated with RA, only with French women. In the French population, the GTC haplotype displayed a protective effect against RA, while the ATC, GCC, and GTT haplotypes conferred significant risk for RA. No association for these haplotypes was found in the Tunisian population. Our results replicated for the first time the association of the three Xq28 polymorphisms with RA risk in Tunisian and French populations and suggested that RA susceptibility is associated with TMEM187-IRAK1 polymorphisms in women. Our data further support the involvement of X chromosome in RA susceptibility and evidence ethnicities differences that might be explained by differences in the frequencies of SE HLA-DRB1 alleles between both populations.
OBJECTIVES: COPD is an abnormal inflammatory response characterized by decreased expression of TLR2 in patients, which is suggested to induce invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to play important roles in the pathogenesis of human respiratory system disorders. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify the miRNAs involved in the regulation of TLR2 signaling in COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: miRNA microarray analysis was performed to screen for the dysregulated miRNAs in alveolar macrophages (AMs) isolated from COPD rats. The interaction between these miRNAs and TLR2 gene was predicted using miRBase and validated using dual luciferase assay. Based on the analysis, a novel miR-344b-1-3p was identified as a novel modulator of TLR2 gene. Then, the mechanism through which miR-344b-1-3p regulated TLR2 expression was explored using cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-pretreated NR8383 cells. Moreover, by subjecting CSE-pretreated NR8383 cells to Pam3CSK4, the effect of miR-344b-1-3p on NF-κB activity and other important mediators of COPD, including IRAK-1, ERK, TNF-α, IL-1β, and MIP-2, was also assessed.RESULTS: COPD rat model was successfully induced by smoke inhalation. Among the 11 upregulated miRNAs in AMs from COPD rats, miR-344b-1-3p was predicted to be a novel miRNA targeting TLR2 gene. In the CSE pretreated NR8383 cells exposed to Pam3CSK4, miR-344b-1-3p inhibition increased the expression levels of TLR2, TNF-α, and IL-1β and decreased the expression levels of MIP-2. In addition, the phosphorylation of IRAK-1, IκBα, and IRK was augmented by miR-344b-1-3p inhibition.CONCLUSION: Findings outlined in this study suggest that miR-344b-1-3p was an effective modulator of TLR2 gene, which can be employed as a promising therapeutic and preventive target of IPA in COPD patients.
Unveiling the key mechanism of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) for the development of novel treatments is of increasing interest, and anti-inflammatory miR-146a is now considered a promising molecular target for TLE. In the current study, a C57BL/6 TLE mouse model was established using the lithium-pilocarpine protocol. The seizure degree was evaluated according to the Racine scale, and level 5 was considered the threshold for generalized convulsions. Animals were sacrificed to analyze the hippocampus at three time points (2 h and 4 and 8 weeks after pilocarpine administration to evaluate the acute, latent, and chronic phases, resp.). After intranasal delivery of miR-146a mimics (30 min before pilocarpine injection), the percent of animals with no induced seizures increased by 6.7%, the latency to generalized convulsions was extended, and seizure severity was reduced. Additionally, hippocampal damage was alleviated. While the relative miR-146a levels significantly increased, the expression of its target mRNAs (IRAK-1 and TRAF-6) and typical inflammatory modulators (NF-κB, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6) decreased, supporting an anti-inflammatory role of miR-146a via the TLR pathway. This study is the first to demonstrate that intranasal delivery of miR-146a mimics can improve seizure onset and hippocampal damage in the acute phase of lithium-pilocarpine-induced seizures, which provides inflammation-based clues for the development of novel TLE treatments.
The death of mature oligodendrocytes (OLs) which are the sole myelinating cells of the central nervous system (CNS), leads to demyelination and functional deficits. Currently, there is lack of effective remyelination therapies for patients with demyelinating diseases. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) mediate OL function. We hypothesized that miR-146a, by inactivating interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), promotes differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) and thereby enhances remyelination. To test this hypothesis, a demyelination model induced by a cuprizone (CPZ) diet was employed, in which C57BL/6J mice were fed with a CPZ diet for 5weeks. After termination of CPZ diet, the mice were randomly treated with continuous infusion of miR-146a mimics or mimic controls into the corpus callosum for 7days. Compared to the mimic control, infusion of miR-146a mimics facilitated remyelination assessed by increased myelin basic proteins in the corpus callosum, which was associated with augmentation of newly generated mature OLs. Infusion of miR-146a mimics also substantially elevated miR-146a levels in the corpus callosum and fluorescently tagged miR-146a mimics were mainly detected in OPCs. Western blot and double immmunofluorescent staining analysis showed that the miR-146a treatment considerably reduced IRAK1 protein levels and the number of IRAK1-positive cells, respectively. Collectively, these data indicate that exogenous miR-146a enhances remyelination, possibly by promoting OPCs to differentiate into myelinated OLs via targeting IRAK1.
Thymoquinone (TQ) is a bioactive component of black seed (Nigella sativa) volatile oil and has been shown to have anti-oxidative, anti-inflammatory, and anti-cancer properties. In the present study, we explored the molecular mechanisms that underlie the anti-inflammatory effect of TQ and its target proteins using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated murine macrophage-like RAW264.7 and human monocyte-like U937 cells, together with LPS/D-galactosamine (GalN)-induced acute hepatitis and HCl/EtOH-induced gastritis mouse models. TQ strongly inhibited the production of nitric oxide (NO) and repressed NO synthase (iNOS), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-1β expression in LPS-activated RAW264.7 cells. Treatment of LPS/D-GalN-induced hepatitis and EtOH/HCl-induced gastritis mouse models with TQ significantly ameliorated disease symptoms. Using luciferase reporter gene assays, we also showed that the nuclear levels of transcription factors and phosphorylation patterns of signaling proteins, activator protein (AP)-1, and nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathways were all affected by TQ treatment. Finally, we used additional kinase and luciferase validation assays with interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) to show that IRAK1 is directly suppressed by TQ treatment. Together, these findings strongly suggest that the anti-inflammatory actions of TQ are caused by suppression of IRAK-linked AP-1/NF-κB pathways.
Glycyrrhetinic acid (GA), the main active ingredient of licorice, reportedly has anti-inflammatory and hepatoprotective properties, but its molecular mechanisms remain be elusive. In the present study, Balb/c mice were pretreated with GA (10, 30, or 100mg/kg) 1h before lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/d-galactosamine (D-GalN) administration. In other in vitro experiment, RAW264.7 macrophages were pretreated with GA before LPS exposure. The mortality, hepatic tissue histology, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) were analyzed. Toll like receptor 4 (TLR4), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs), activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and NF-κB, and production of TNF-α were assessed by flow cytometry, western blotting, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. Our results showed that pretreatment with GA protected mice against LPS/D-GalN-induced fulminant hepatic failure (FHF), including a dose-dependent alleviation of mortality and ALT/AST elevation, ameliorating hepatic pathological damage, and decreasing TNF-α release. Moreover, GA inhibited LPS-induced activation of MAPKs and NF-κB in response to LPS, but the expression of TLR4 was not affected in vivo and in vitro. Notably, GA pretreatment in vivo suppressed IRAK-1 activity while inducing IRAK-M expression. Silencing of IRAK-M expression with siRNA blocked these beneficial effects of GA on the activation of MAPKs and NF-κB as well as TNF-α production in LPS-primed macrophages. Taken together, we conclude that GA could prevent LPS/D-GalN-induced FHF. The underlying mechanisms may be related to up-regulation of IRAK-M, which in turn caused deactivation of IRAK-1 and subsequent MAPKs and NF-κB, resulting in inhibiting TNF-α production.
Bacterial sepsis involves a complex interaction between the host immune response and bacterial LPS. LPS binds Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4, which leads to the release of proinflammatory cytokines that are essential for a potent innate immune response against pathogens. The innate immune system is tightly regulated, as excessive inflammation can lead to organ failure and death. MicroRNAs have recently emerged as important regulators of the innate immune system. Here we determined the function of miR-718, which is conserved across mammals and overlaps with the 5' UTR of the interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) gene. As IRAK1 is a key component of innate immune signaling pathways that are downstream of most TLRs, we hypothesized that miR-718 helps regulate the innate immune response. Activation of TLR4, but not TLR3, induced the expression of miR-718 in macrophages. miR-718 expression was also induced in the spleens of mice upon LPS injection. miR-718 modulates PI3K/Akt signaling by directly down-regulating phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), thereby promoting phosphorylation of Akt, which leads to a decrease in proinflammatory cytokine production. Phosphorylated Akt induces let-7e expression, which, in turn, down-regulates TLR4 and further diminishes TLR4-mediated proinflammatory signals. Decreased miR-718 expression is associated with bacterial burden during Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection and alters the infection dynamics of N. gonorrhoeae in vitro Furthermore, miR-718 regulates the induction of LPS tolerance in macrophages. We propose a role for miR-718 in controlling TLR4 signaling and inflammatory cytokine signaling through a negative feedback regulation loop involving down-regulation of TLR4, IRAK1, and NF-κB.
BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by the production of an array of proinflammatory cytokines through the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) signaling pathway. Interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) and Toll-like receptors contain a common cytoplasmic motif the Toll/IL-1R (TIR) homology domain. This motif is required for NF-κB activation. IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is a key adapter molecule recruited during the signaling cascade of the TIR. Its gene expression is regulated by the micro-RNA (miR)-146a.OBJECTIVE: We investigated the role of IRAK1 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs3027898 (IRAK1 rs3027898) and miR-146a SNP rs2910164 (miR-146a rs2910164) in Tunisian patients with RA and their association with C reactive protein (CRP), rheumatoid factor (RF), anticyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) antibodies, and erosion.PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a cohort of 172 adult RA patients and 224 matched controls, IRAK1 rs3027898 genotyping was determined by mutagenically separated polymerase chain reaction (MS-PCR) with newly designed primers, and miR-146a rs2910164 genotyping was determined by fragment length polymorphism PCR-restriction (RFLP-PCR).RESULTS: The IRAK1 rs3027898 A allele was detected in 67% of RA patients and 70% of controls indicating that it is not associated with RA in codominant, dominant, or recessive models even after stratification by age and gender. The miR-146a rs2910164 G allele was detected in 76% of RA patients and 68% of controls, thus the C allele confers some protection based on a dominant model [CC+GC (odds ratio (95% confidence interval) = 0.6 (0.3-0.9), p = 0.03)]. No association with CRP, RF, anti-CCP, or erosion was found for either SNPs.CONCLUSION: The IRAK1 rs3027898 was not associated with RA, whereas C allele of miR-146a rs2910164 was found to be protective. Functional studies are required to investigate the exact role of miR-146a rs2910164 during RA.
Isolated PMNL from neonatal calves were used to evaluate the effect of Met, choline, and taurine supplementation on mRNA expression of genes related to the Met cycle and innate immunity. Five neonatal Holstein calves (3 wk old) were used for PMNL isolation and in vitro culture. The selected genes were related to the 1-carbon and Met cycles, cell signaling and cytokine mediators, inflammation, antimicrobial and killing mechanism associated genes, immune mediators, adhesion, and pathogen recognition. The results indicated that supplementation of Met, choline, and taurine increased homocysteine synthesis through upregulation of SAHH. Furthermore, the lower expression of CXCR1, IL10, IL6, IRAK1, NFKB1, NR3C1, SELL, TLR4, and TNFA indicated that all treatments mitigated the inflammatory activation of blood PMNL. As indicated by the modulation of GCLC and GPX1, choline and taurine supplementation also affected the antioxidant system. However, data indicate that oversupplementation could alter the inflammatory and oxidative status, suggesting the existence of cytotoxicity thresholds. Overall, multiple biological processes in calf PMNL related to inflammatory response and cytoprotection against oxidative stress were affected by Met, choline, and taurine supplementation. These data underscore an important role of these compounds in pre-weaning calf nutritional management.
The costimulatory protein B7-H3 has been shown to play a contributory role in the development and progression of experimental pneumococcal meningitis by augmentation of the innate immunity-associated inflammatory response via a TLR2-dependent manner. This study aimed to clarify the component(s) of TLR2-mediated signal transduction pathways responsible for B7-H3-augmented inflammatory response and subsequent brain damage during experimental pneumococcal meningitis. Administration of B7-H3 did not augment expression of TLR2 and other TLR2 upstream components, but led to an enhanced formation of MyD88-IRAK immunocomplex in the brain of S. pneumoniae-infected mice. Furthermore, B7-H3 substantially augmented S. pneumoniae-induced activation of TLR2 downstream NF-κB p65 and MAPK p38 pathways in the brain of S. pneumoniae-infected mice. Notably, blockage of NF-κB p65 and/or MAPK p38 with their specific inhibitors strongly attenuated B7-H3-amplified inflammatory response with significantly reduced proinflammatory cytokine and chemokine production, and markedly ameliorated B7-H3-exacerbated disruption of blood-brain barrier and severity of disease status in S. pneumoniae-infected mice. These results indicate that targeting NF-κB p65 and/or MAPK p38 may represent a promising therapeutic option for amelioration of overwhelming inflammatory response-associated brain injury frequently observed during pneumococcal meningitis.
We have previously shown that human nasal epithelial cells (hNECs) are highly permissive cells for respiratory viruses including influenza A virus (IAV) and respiratory syncytial virus. Recent studies have indicated that microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in virus-host relationship, and this led us to investigate its essential roles in the in vitro hNECs model derived from multiple donors. By comparing the differential expression of miRNAs upon IAV infection among animal and cell line studies, candidates were selected with focus on the initial immune response. After infection of influenza H3N2 virus, hNECs showed constant increase virus titer at 24-72h post-infection (hpi); accompanied with a significantly elevated level of miR-146a-5p at 72 hpi. The exponential elevation of progeny virus titer correlated with a key influenza sensing Toll-like receptor (TLR)7 pathway. TLR7 downstream gene transcripts, myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88), interferon regulator factor 7 (IRF7), and interferon-β (IFN-β) were significantly upregulated at 48 and 72 hpi, while interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor associated factor-6 (TRAF6) were unchanged. Interestingly, when miR-146a was overexpressed with miRNA mimics prior to H3N2 infection, further decreased transcripts of TRAF6, but not IRAK1, were detected. By using the in vitro hNEC model, we demonstrated that H3N2-induced miR-146a specifically targets and regulates TRAF6 expression; but not IRAK expression in the nasal epithelium. We also found that unlike the cell model studies that lead to our studies, when ran across a heterogeneous model of different individual, miRNA signals were highly varied and the expression of most miRNAs, including miR-146a-5p, was more subdued compared to homogenous cell line model, highlighting a need for a more thorough analysis of miRNA signals and targets in a model more mimicking a clinical influenza infection.
BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a complex disease resulting from a combination of environmental and genetic factors. We hypothesized that polymorphisms hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 T/C, IRAK1 rs3027898 C/A and RANKL rs7984870 C/G might contribute to CAD susceptibility.METHODS: We studied the association between the three polymorphisms and the risk of CAD in a Chinese population using 435 CAD patients and 480 controls. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) was used to perform the genotyping, and the differences were analysed.RESULTS: When the hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 TT homozygote genotype was used as the reference group, the TC, CC or TC/CC genotypes were associated with a significantly increased risk of CAD [TC vs. TT: adjusted odds ratio (OR) 1.41, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.02-1.94, p = 0.04; CC vs. TT: adjusted OR 3.14, 95% CI 1.77-5.56, p < 0.001; CC/TC vs. TT: adjusted OR 1.68, 95% CI 1.25-2.26, p < 0.001). In the recessive model, when the hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 TT/TC genotypes were used as the reference group, the CC homozygote genotype was associated with a significantly increased risk of CAD (adjusted OR 2.87, 95% CI 1.63-5.04, p < 0.001). Risk factors such as diabetes mellitus (DM), hypertension, smoking and low high-density ipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c) were also associated with a significantly increased risk for CAD. Logistic regression analyses revealed that IRAK1 rs3027898 C/A and RANKL rs7984870 C/G polymorphisms were not associated with risk of CAD.CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggested that the functional polymorphism hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 T/C is associated with CAD susceptibility.
OBJECTIVES: Interleukin-36 (IL-36) is a recently described proinflammatory cytokine, characterized by the induction of inflammatory mediators. In the present study, we investigated the biological activity and the signal transduction of IL-36α in human pancreatic myofibroblasts.METHODS: The mRNA and protein expression of inflammatory mediators was evaluated using real-time polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. The expression of IL-36α and its receptor in the pancreatic tissue was evaluated using immunohistochemical technique. Intracellular signaling pathways were evaluated using immunoblotting and specific small interference RNA-transfected cells.RESULTS: Interleukin-36α and its receptor complex IL-36R/IL-1RAcP were detected in fibrotic tissue of chronic pancreatitis. Interleukin-36α dose- and time-dependently induced the mRNA expression and protein secretion of CXCL1, CXCL8, MMP-1, and MMP-3 from human pancreatic myofibroblasts. Interleukin-36α assembled MyD88 adaptor proteins (MyD88, TRAF6, IRAK1, and TAK1) into a complex. Furthermore, IL-36α induced the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and the activation of nuclear factor κB and activator protein 1. Mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitors and small interference RNAs specific for nuclear factor κB and activator protein 1 significantly suppressed the protein secretion of inflammatory mediators induced by IL-36α stimulation.CONCLUSIONS: It was suggested that IL-36α plays an important role in the pathophysiology of inflammation and fibrosis in the pancreas via an autocrine function.
Chlorogenic acid (CGA), one of the most abundant dietary polyphenolic compounds, has been reported to exhibit anti-inflammatory ability. However, the hepatoprotective effects and molecular mechanisms of CGA on concanavalin A (Con A)-induced hepatitis have not been explored. In the present study, we found that pretreatment with CGA dose-dependently inhibited the elevation of plasma aminotransferases and alleviated hepatic pathological damage as well as hepatocyte apoptosis in Con A-exposed mice. Additionally, CGA markedly suppressed the production of serum tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interferon (IFN)-γ, alleviated the infiltration of hepatic macrophages, neutrophils, and activated CD4+ T lymphocytes in Con A-primed mice. Moreover, CGA downregulated Con A-induced hepatic expression of adhesion molecules (ICAM-1, VCAM-1 and ELAM-1) mRNA and protein, and inhibited Con A-activated Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 signal molecules including TLR4, p-IRAK1, p-IκB, and p-p38. Finally, our results also showed that CGA exhibited a therapeutic effect, which CGA posttreatment improved hepatic damage at 1, 3, and 6h after Con A. Taken together, these data suggested that CGA could effectively prevent mice from Con A-induced hepatitis, which might be through suppressing the activation of TLR4 signaling, downregulating the expression of adhesion molecules, and alleviating the infiltration and activation of hepatic leukocytes and the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Upon T cell receptor stimulation, CD4+ T helper (Th) lymphocytes release extracellular vesicles (EVs) containing microRNAs. However, no data are available on whether human CD4+ T cell subsets release EVs containing different pattern of microRNAs. The present work aimed at filling this gap by assessing the microRNA content in EVs released upon in vitro T cell receptor stimulation of Th1, Th17, and T regulatory (Treg) cells. Our results indicate that EVs released by Treg cells are significantly different compared with those released by the other subsets. In particular, miR-146a-5p, miR-150-5p, and miR-21-5p are enriched, whereas miR-106a-5p, miR-155-5p, and miR-19a-3p are depleted in Treg-derived EVs. The in vitro identified EV-associated microRNA signature was increased in serum of autoimmune patients with psoriasis and returned to healthy levels upon effective treatment with etanercept, a biological drug targeting the TNF pathway and suppressing inflammation. Moreover, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis showed an over-representation of genes relevant for T cell activation, such as CD40L, IRAK1, IRAK2, STAT1, and c-Myb in the list of validated targets of Treg-derived EV miRNAs. At functional level, Treg-derived (but not Th1/Th17-derived) EVs inhibited CD4+ T cell proliferation and suppressed two relevant targets of miR-146a-5p: STAT1 and IRAK2. In conclusion, our work identified the miRNAs specifically released by different human CD4+ T cell subsets and started to unveil the potential use of their quantity in human serum to mark the pathological elicitation of these cells in vivo and their biological effect in cell to cell communication during the adaptive immune response.
Most members of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) and interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) families transduce signals via a canonical pathway involving the MyD88 adapter and the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) complex. This complex contains four molecules, including at least two (IRAK-1 and IRAK-4) active kinases. In mice and humans, deficiencies of IRAK-4 or MyD88 abolish most TLR (except for TLR3 and some TLR4) and IL-1R signaling in both leukocytes and fibroblasts. TLR and IL-1R responses are weak but not abolished in mice lacking IRAK-1, whereas the role of IRAK-1 in humans remains unclear. We describe here a boy with X-linked MECP2 deficiency-related syndrome due to a large de novo Xq28 chromosomal deletion encompassing both MECP2 and IRAK1 Like many boys with MECP2 null mutations, this child died very early, at the age of 7 mo. Unlike most IRAK-4- or MyD88-deficient patients, he did not suffer from invasive bacterial diseases during his short life. The IRAK-1 protein was completely absent from the patient's fibroblasts, which responded very poorly to all TLR2/6 (PAM2CSK4, LTA, FSL-1), TLR1/2 (PAM3CSK4), and TLR4 (LPS, MPLA) agonists tested but had almost unimpaired responses to IL-1β. By contrast, the patient's peripheral blood mononuclear cells responded normally to all TLR1/2, TLR2/6, TLR4, TLR7, and TLR8 (R848) agonists tested, and to IL-1β. The death of this child precluded long-term evaluations of the clinical consequences of inherited IRAK-1 deficiency. However, these findings suggest that human IRAK-1 is essential downstream from TLRs but not IL-1Rs in fibroblasts, whereas it plays a redundant role downstream from both TLRs and IL-1Rs in leukocytes.
Erratum in    Indian J Pharmacol. 2017 Jan-Feb;49(1):135.
Comment in    Sci Transl Med. 2017 Jan 25;9(374):
BACKGROUND: Male neonates display poorer disease prognosis and outcomes compared with females. Immune genes which exhibit higher expression in umbilical cord blood (UCB) of females may contribute to the female immune advantage during infection and inflammation. The aim of this study was to quantify expression of Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 signaling genes encoded on the X-chromosome in UCB from term female vs. male neonates.METHODS: UCB samples were collected from term neonates (n = 26) born by elective Caesarean section and whole blood was collected from adults (n = 20). Leukocyte RNA was isolated and used in quantitative PCR reactions for IκB kinase γ (IKKγ), Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK), and IL-1 receptor associated kinase (IRAK)1. IRAK1 protein was analyzed by Western blot and confocal microscopy.RESULTS: In neonates there was no significant difference in the relative expression of IKKγ or BTK mRNA between genders. IRAK1 gene and protein expression was significantly higher in female vs. male UCB, with increased cytosolic IRAK1 expression also evident in female UCB mononuclear cells. Adults had higher expression of all three genes compared with neonates.CONCLUSION: Increased expression of IRAK1 could be responsible, in part, for sex-specific responses to infection and subsequent immune advantage in female neonates.
The interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) is an important adapter protein which links downstream of MyD88, and involved in the complex composed of MyD88 and TRAF6 to activate TLRs signaling pathway. In this study, an IRAK-1 homolog (FpIRAK-1) was cloned from the red tail shrimp Fenneropenaeus penicillatus. The ORF of FpIRAK-1 consisted of 2874 bp encoding a protein of 957 amino acids which contains a death domain (DD) and a catalytic domain of serine/threonine kinases (STKc). Homology analysis revealed that the predicted amino acid sequence of FpIRAK-1 shared 71% similarities with IRAK-1 of Litopenaeus vannamei. Real-time RT-PCR indicated that FpIRAK-1 was constitutively expressed in various tissues of F. penicillatus. The expression level of FpIRAK-1 mRNA was significantly up-regulated and then decreased gradually after white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) and Vibrio alginolyticus challenge. Gene knockdown of FpIRAK-1 enhanced the sensitivity of shrimps to WSSV and V. alginolyticus challenge, suggesting FpIRAK-1 could play a positive role against bacterial and viral pathogens. In conclusion, the results of this study provide some insights into the function of FpIRAK-1 in activating Toll signaling pathway and the host defense against invading pathogens.
BACKGROUND: Pacritinib (SB1518) is a highly selective kinase inhibitor with specificity for JAK2, FLT3, IRAK1, and CFS1R. This multicenter phase 1/2 study evaluated the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), safety, and clinical activity of pacritinib in patients with myelofibrosis (MF) and other advanced myeloid malignancies.METHODS: In the phase 1 dose-escalation part of the study, 43 adults with advanced myeloid malignancies received pacritinib 100 to 600 mg once daily (QD). In the phase 2 part of the study, 31 adults with refractory or intermediate- or high-risk newly diagnosed MF and any degree of cytopenia received pacritinib 400 mg QD. The primary endpoint is a ≥35% reduction in spleen volume at week 24 as determined by magnetic resonance imaging.RESULTS: Five patients (11.6%) experienced a dose-limiting toxicity during cycle 1 of phase 1. The clinical benefit rate was 86.0% (13 patients achieving clinical improvement and 24 patients having stable disease). The MTD was established at 500 mg QD, and the recommended phase 2 dose was 400 mg QD. In phase 2, the primary endpoint was achieved by 23.5% of evaluable patients (4/17), with 47.4% (9/19) achieving a ≥50% spleen length reduction at week 24 as measured by physical examination. At week 24, 38.9% of evaluable patients (7/18) achieved a ≥50% decrease in MF Quality of Life and Symptom Assessment total score. Gastrointestinal toxicities were the most common adverse events and were predominantly grade 1/2 in severity. Grade 3/4 anemia was reported in 5/31 patients and grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia was reported in 3/31 patients. The most frequent AEs considered to be treatment related were diarrhea (28/31), nausea (15/31), vomiting (9/31), and fatigue (4/31). Grade 3 treatment-related AEs were reported in seven patients (22.6%), four of whom had diarrhea. No grade 4/5 treatment-related AEs were reported. No leukopenia, neutropenia, or lymphopenia were reported.CONCLUSIONS: Pacritinib was well tolerated and demonstrated clinical activity in MF. The study suggests that pacritinib has unique characteristics, namely a lack of substantial myelosuppression and manageable side effects, making it an attractive target for further evaluation in MF.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Retrospectively registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov (# NCT00719836 ) on July 20, 2008.
The obesity-associated inflammation of white adipose tissue (WAT) is one of the factors leading to the development of related diseases such as insulin resistance and liver steatosis. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) were identified as important regulators of WAT functions. Herein, we cultured human Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome (SGBS) adipocytes with macrophage-conditioned medium (MacCM) and performed an Affimetrix miRNA array to identify miRNAs differentially expressed under inflammatory conditions. We identified 24 miRNAs differentially expressed upon inflammation in human adipocytes and miR-146a was the most up-regulated miRNA species. In subcutaneous WAT, miR-146a was elevated in both human and murine obesity. Transfection of miR-146a mimics prevented the MacCM-induced inflammatory response in SGBS adipocytes as seen by reduced levels of IL-8 and MCP-1 mRNA and protein. We identified IRAK1 and TRAF6 as targets of miR-146a in human adipocytes and detected a reduced inflammation-induced activation of JNK and p38 upon miR-146a transfection. Taken together, we could show that miR-146a reduces the inflammatory response in human adipocytes. In a negative feedback loop miR-146a might contribute to the regulation of inflammatory processes in WAT and possibly prevent an overwhelming inflammatory response.
Recent studies show that Polydatin (PD) extracted from the roots of Polygonum cuspidatum Sieb, a widely used traditional Chinese remedies, possesses anti-inflammatory activity in several experimental models. In this study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of PD on Staphylococcus aureus-induced mastitis in mice and elucidated the potential mechanisms. In mice with S aureus-induced mastitis, administration of PD (15, 30, 45 mg/kg, ip) or dexamethasone (Dex, 5 mg/kg, ip) significantly suppressed the infiltration of inflammatory cells, ameliorated the mammary structural damage, and inhibited the activity of myeloperoxidase, a biomarker of neutrophils accumulation. Furthermore, PD treatment dose-dependently decreased the levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8 in the mammary gland tissues. PD treatment also dose-dependently decreased the expression of TLR2, MyD88, IRAK1, IRAK4 and TRAF6 as well as the phosphorylation of TAK1, MKK3/6, p38 MAPK, IκB-α and NF-κB in the mammary gland tissues. In mouse mammary epithelial cells (mMECs) infected by S aureus in vitro, pretreatment with PD dose-dependently suppressed the upregulated pro-inflammatory cytokines and signaling proteins, and the nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65 and AP-1. A TLR2-neutralizing antibody mimicked PD in its suppression on S aureus-induced upregulation of MyD88, p-p38 and p-p65 levels in mMECs. PD (50, 100 μg/mL) affected neither the growth of S aureus in vitro, nor the viability of mMECs. In conclusion, PD does not exhibit antibacterial activity against S aureus, its therapeutic effects in mouse S aureus-induced mastitis depend on its ability to down-regulate pro-inflammatory cytokine levels via inhibiting TLR2-mediated activation of the p38 MAPK/NF-κB signaling pathway.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) pathogenesis encompasses a plethora of finely regulated alterations within the host which eventually coin the outcome of infection. Chemokines are important components in directing immune cell recruitment to the site of infection, and shaping the disease progression. Here, we demonstrate that Hippo (mammalian sterile 20-like 1 and 2 kinases, MST1/2, in mammals), is activated during mycobacterial infection in a toll-like receptor (TLR) 2-interleukin receptor-1 associated kinases (IRAK1/4)-dependent manner. Mtb-triggered Hippo signaling modulates the expression and secretion of chemokines (CXCL1 and CXCL2); as silencing MST1/2 compromised the ability of Mtb to furnish the same. Further insight into the mechanism of Hippo-mediated regulation of chemokines revealed the role for a non-canonical Hippo effector interferon (IFN) regulatory factor (IRF) 3 in the process and marked the effect to be independent of LATS1. Alongside their ability to guide directed recruitment of immune cells, we have uncovered a paracrine role for Hippo-mediated secretion of CXCL1 and CXCL2 in the production of anti-microbial peptides (beta-defensins), iNOS, NOX2 and pro-inflammatory molecules during mycobacterial infection of the host. This study highlights the involvement of TLR2-IRAK1/4-MST1/2-IRF3 axis in Mtb-triggered modulation of chemokines and identifies Hippo signaling as a novel regulator of host-mycobacterial interactions.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in the regulation of immune responses. Previous studies have indicated that dysregulating the miRNAs leads to the immunosuppression of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV). However, it is not clear how PRRSV regulates the expression of host miRNA, which may lead to immune escape or promote the replication of the virus. The present work suggests that PRRSV upregulated the expression of miR-373 through elevating the expression of specificity protein 1 (Sp1) in MARC-145 cells. Furthermore, this work demonstrated that miR-373 promoted the replication of PRRSV, since miR-373 was a novel negative miRNA for the production of beta interferon (IFN-β) by targeting nuclear factor IA (NFIA), NFIB, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), IRAK4, and interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1). We also found that both NFIA and NFIB were novel proteins for inducing the production of IFN-β, and both of them could inhibit the replication of PRRSV. In conclusion, PRRSV upregulated the expression of miR-373 by elevating the expression of Sp1 and hijacked the host miR-373 to promote the replication of PRRSV by negatively regulating the production of IFN-β.IMPORTANCE: PRRSV causes one of the most economically devastating diseases of swine, and there is no effective method for controlling PRRSV. It is not clear how PRRSV inhibits the host's immune response and induces persistent infection. Previous studies have shown that PRRSV inhibited the production of type I IFN, and the treatment of type I IFN could efficiently inhibit the replication of PRRSV, so it will be helpful to design new methods of controlling PRRSV by understanding the molecular mechanism by which PRRSV modulated the production of IFN. The current work shows that miR-373, upregulated by PRRSV, promotes PRRSV replication, since miR-373 impaired the production of IFN-β by targeting NFIA, NFIB, IRAK1, IRAK4, and IRF1, and both NFIA and NFIB were antiviral proteins to PRRSV. In conclusion, this paper revealed a novel mechanism of PRRSV that impaired the production of type I IFN by upregulating miR-373 expression in MARC-145 cells.
The present study aimed to reduce the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) in dendritic cells (DCs) by RNA interference (RNAi). Subsequently, its effects on the expression of costimulatory surface molecules, the release of inflammatory cytokines, and the proliferation of T cells during the activation process of DCs, were determined. RNAi was used to silence IRAK‑1 gene expression in DCs, followed by lipopolysaccharide stimulation. Flow cytometry was then used to detect the expression levels of DC surface molecules, including cluster of differentiation (CD)86, major histocompatibility complex class II and CD40. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction was conducted to detect the mRNA expression levels of Toll‑like receptor 4, IRAK‑4, IRAK‑1 and nuclear factor‑κB (NF‑κB) in DCs. In addition, ELISA was used to detect the release of the following inflammatory cytokines: Interleukin (IL)‑10, IL‑12 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). The MTS assay was used to determine the effects of IRAK‑1 RNAi on T‑cell proliferation. Knockdown of IRAK‑1 gene expression in DCs significantly reduced the expression levels of costimulatory surface molecules and intracellular NF‑κB, decreased release of the proinflammatory cytokines IL‑12 and TNF‑α, increased release of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL‑10, and significantly reduced the proliferation of T cells. These results suggested that suppression of IRAK‑1 gene expression may inhibit the differentiation and maturation of DCs via the downregulation of DC surface molecules, inhibition of intracellular signal transduction pathways, regulation of inflammatory cytokine release, and by reducing its promoting effects on T-cell proliferation.
Activation of Toll-like receptors induces dimerization and the recruitment of the death domain (DD) adaptor protein MyD88 into an oligomeric post receptor complex termed the Myddosome. The Myddosome is a hub for inflammatory and oncogenic signaling and has a hierarchical arrangement with 6-8 MyD88 molecules assembling with exactly 4 of IRAK-4 and 4 of IRAK-2. Here we show that a conserved motif in IRAK-4 (Ser8-X-X-X-Arg12) is autophosphorylated and that the phosphorylated DD is unable to form Myddosomes. Furthermore a mutant DD with the phospho-mimetic residue Asp at this position is impaired in both signalling and Myddosome assembly. IRAK-4 Arg12 is also essential for Myddosome assembly and signalling and we propose that phosphorylated Ser8 induces the N-terminal loop to fold into an α-helix. This conformer is stabilised by an electrostatic interaction between phospho-Ser8 and Arg12 and would destabilise a critical interface between IRAK-4 and MyD88. Interestingly IRAK-2 does not conserve this motif and has an alternative interface in the Myddosome that requires Arg67, a residue conserved in paralogues, IRAK-1 and 3(M).
MicroRNA-146a participates in spinal cord injury (SCI) recovery. Until recently, how miRNA-146a participates in SCI remained unclear. In this study, we tried to explore the roles of miRNA-146a in the recovery of SCI using a rat model. The expression of the probable target genes of miRNA-146a (including IRAK1 and TARF6) as well as proinflammation cytokines were measured until 7 days after surgery in the three groups (sham group, SCI group, and miRNA-146a antagomir injection group). Also, the animals' motivations were estimated using Basso Beattie Bresnahan (BBB) during the whole experiment. A luciferase assay was performed to demonstrate that miRNA-146a could directly target the mRNAs of IRAK1 and TRAF6. Our experiments indicate that miRNA-146a inhibits proinflammatory cytokine secretion by suppressing IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression in the SCI model. In contrast, miRNA-146a may be upregulated by inflammatory mediators via the IRAK1/TRAF6 pathway in the spinal cord. As a negative feedback element, miRNA-146a could make sure that the expression of IRAK1- and TRAF6-mediated genes was under tight control. Thus, miRNA-146a may serve as a novel therapeutic target for SCI interventions.
CONTEXT: MicroRNA (miR)-146b is overexpressed in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and is associated with extrathyroidal invasion, advanced tumor stage, and poor prognosis. However, the underlying mechanism of miR-146b in relation to its oncogenic behavior in PTC and its putative targets remain unknown.OBJECTIVE: The purpose was to investigate IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) as the potential miR-146b target gene and its involvement in PTC.DESIGN: We used genome-wide microarray, computational analysis, and 3' UTR reporter gene assays to identify IRAK1 as a miR-146b target gene. In vitro gain/loss-of-function experiments were further performed to determine the effects of IRAK1 on proliferation, colony formation, and wound-healing in PTC cancer cell lines. Expression levels of miR-146b and IRAK1 of 50 cases of PTC and its adjacent normal thyroid specimens were assessed via qRT-PCR.RESULTS: Microarray expression profile revealed that the mRNA level of IRAK1 gene was down-regulated by miR-146b. The 3' UTR of IRAK1 mRNA was found to be a molecular target of miR-146b posttranscriptional repression in BCPAP cells by reporter gene assays. MiR-146b promoted the migration and proliferation of PTC cells by down-regulating IRAK1 expression, whereas restoration of IRAK1 expression reversed this effect. In addition, the expression of IRAK1 mRNA was significantly lower in PTC clinical tissue samples than normal adjacent thyroid specimens and showed a strong inverse correlation with the expression of miR-146b in PTC specimens.CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrated that IRAK1 is a direct target of miR-146b and has functional roles to inhibit various aggressive PTC cell activities. In conjunction with current therapeutic regimens, targeting the miR-146b-IRAK1 axis may provide a potential approach for PTC management.
Polymorphisms in the TNIP1 gene encoding A20-binding inhibitor of NF-κB1 (ABIN1) predispose to lupus and other autoimmune diseases in at least eight human populations. We found previously that knock-in mice expressing a ubiquitin-binding-defective mutant of ABIN1 (ABIN1[D485N]) develop autoimmunity as they age and succumb to a disease resembling lupus nephritis in humans. In this article, we report that Flt3-derived dendritic cells from these mice overproduced type 1 IFNs upon stimulation with ligands that activate TLR7 or TLR9. However, crossing ABIN1[D485N] mice to IFNAR1-knockout mice that do not express the α-subunit of the type 1 IFNR did not prevent splenomegaly, the appearance of high serum levels of autoantibodies and other Igs, or liver inflammation and only reduced kidney inflammation modestly. In contrast, crossing ABIN1[D485N] mice to knock-in mice expressing catalytically inactive mutants of IRAK1 or IRAK4 prevented splenomegaly, autoimmunity, and liver and kidney inflammation. Our results support the notion that IRAK1 and/or IRAK4 are attractive targets for the development of drugs to prevent, and perhaps treat, lupus nephritis and other autoinflammatory diseases caused by the decreased ability of ABIN1 or other proteins to restrict the strength of MyD88 signaling.
The peptidyl prolyl isomerase Pin1 has two domains that are considered to be its binding (WW) and catalytic (PPIase) domains, both of which interact with phosphorylated Ser/Thr-Pro motifs. This shared specificity might influence substrate selection, as many known Pin1 substrates have multiple sequentially close phosphoSer/Thr-Pro motifs, including the protein interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK1). The IRAK1 undefined domain (UD) contains two sets of such neighboring motifs (Ser131/Ser144 and Ser163/Ser173), suggesting possible bivalent interactions with Pin1. Using a series of NMR titrations with 15N-labeled full-length Pin1 (Pin1-FL), PPIase, or WW domain and phosphopeptides representing the Ser131/Ser144 and Ser163/Ser173 regions of IRAK1-UD, bivalent interactions were investigated. Binding studies using singly phosphorylated peptides showed that individual motifs displayed weak affinities (> 100 μm) for Pin1-FL and each isolated domain. Analysis of dually phosphorylated peptides binding to Pin1-FL showed that inclusion of bivalent states was necessary to fit the data. The resulting complex model and fitted parameters were applied to predict the impact of bivalent states at low micromolar concentrations, demonstrating significant affinity enhancement for both dually phosphorylated peptides (3.5 and 24 μm for peptides based on the Ser131/Ser144 and Ser163/Ser173 regions, respectively). The complementary technique biolayer interferometry confirmed the predicted affinity enhancement for a representative set of singly and dually phosphorylated Ser131/Ser144 peptides at low micromolar concentrations, validating model predictions. These studies provide novel insights regarding the complexity of interactions between Pin1 and activated IRAK1, and more broadly suggest that phosphorylation of neighboring Ser/Thr-Pro motifs in proteins might provide competitive advantage at cellular concentrations for engaging with Pin1.
Purpose: Aberrant activation of the NF-κB transcription factors underlies the aggressive behavior and poor outcome of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). However, clinically effective and safe NF-κB inhibitors are not yet available. Because NF-κB transcription factors can be activated by the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) downstream of the Toll-like receptors (TLRs), but has not been explored in PDAC, we sought to investigate the role of IRAKs in the pathobiology of PDAC.Experimental Design: We examined the phosphorylation status of IRAK4 (p-IRAK4), the master regulator of TLR signaling, in PDAC cell lines, in surgical samples and commercial tissue microarray. We then performed functional studies using small-molecule IRAK1/4 inhibitor, RNA-interference, and CRISPR/Cas9n techniques to delineate the role of IRAK4 in NF-κB activity, chemoresistance, cytokine production, and growth of PDAC cells in vitro and in vivoResults: p-IRAK4 staining was detectable in the majority of PDAC lines and about 60% of human PDAC samples. The presence of p-IRAK4 strongly correlated with phospho-NF-κB/p65 staining in PDAC samples and is predictive of postoperative relapse and poor overall survival. Inhibition of IRAK4 potently reduced NF-κB activity, anchorage-independent growth, chemoresistance, and secretion of proinflammatory cytokines from PDAC cells. Both pharmacologic suppression and genetic ablation of IRAK4 greatly abolished PDAC growth in mice and augmented the therapeutic effect of gemcitabine by promoting apoptosis, reducing tumor cell proliferation and tumor fibrosis.Conclusions: Our data established IRAK4 as a novel therapeutic target for PDAC treatment. Development of potent IRAK4 inhibitors is needed for clinical testing. Clin Cancer Res; 23(7); 1748-59. ©2016 AACR.
UVR-induced apoptosis in cutaneous antigen presenting cells (APC) causes systemic immune suppression and is dependent on TLR4/MyD88 signalling, but the apoptotic signalling pathways have not been defined. Macrophages pretreated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were unresponsive to subsequent LPS treatment, however, but were susceptible to UVR-induced apoptosis. Macrophage survival and apoptotic events after UVR were also unaffected by treatment with TLR4 antagonists, a blocking IgG or a TLR4 analog antagonist, suggesting that UVR cell death is independent of a soluble ligand. After UVR, IRAK4KDKI (catalytically inactive IRAK4) and wild-type (WT) macrophages show equivalent levels of survival, as measured by MTT assay, and apoptosis, as measured by cleaved caspase-3. Furthermore, in macrophages from both mice, UVR activated caspase-8 and PARP, while inactivating Rip3. This finding is supported by a lack of IRAK1 degradation after UVR, compared to treatment with TLR2 or TLR4 agonists. UVR induced association of MyD88 with FADD, an extrinsic apoptotic pathway protein, but not IRAK4. UVR-induced migration of FADD to the cell membrane of WT macrophages, but not MyD88-/- macrophages, was observed (confocal microscopy). Co-immunoprecipitation using an epitope-tagged MyD88 revealed that FADD, but not TRADD, was recruited to MyD88 within 30 minutes of UVR exposure. UVR engages TLR4/MyD88 as a death signalling complex, rather than the classical inflammatory signalling pathway triggered by PAMP recognition of TLR4. These studies provide the rationale for the future development of topical TLR4 modulating therapies to interfere with this UVB-mediated apoptosis and the associated negative consequences of immune suppression.
A specific small-molecule inhibitor of the TLR4 signaling complex upstream of the IKK would likely provide therapeutic benefit for NF-κB-mediated inflammatory disease. We previously identified brazilin as a selective upstream IKK inhibitor targeting the Myddosome complex. In this study, using a cell-based ubiquitination assay for IRAK1 and a chemical library comprising a series of structural analogues of brazilin, a novel small molecule, 2-hydroxy-5,6-dihydroisoindolo[1,2-a]isoquinoline-3,8-dione (IinQ), was identified as a selective and potent inhibitor of IRAK1-dependent NF-κB activation upon TLR4 ligation. In RAW264.7 macrophages, IinQ drastically suppressed activation of upstream IKK signaling events including membrane-bound IRAK1 ubiquitination and IKK phosphorylation by the TLR4 ligand, resulting in reduced expression of proinflammatory mediators including IL-6, TNF-α, and nitric oxide. Interestingly, IinQ did not suppress NF-κB activation via the TLR3 ligand, DNA damaging agents, or a protein kinase C activator, indicating IinQ is specific for TLR4 signaling. Analysis of upstream signaling events further confirmed that IinQ disrupts the MyD88-IRAK1-TRAF6 complex formation induced by LPS treatment, without affecting TLR4 oligomerization. Moreover, intravenous administration of IinQ significantly reduced lethality and attenuated systemic inflammatory responses in an in vivo mouse model of endotoxin shock following LPS challenge. Thus, IinQ represents a novel class of brazilin analogues with improved potency and specificity toward disruption of Myddosome complex formation in TLR4 signaling, indicating that IinQ may be a promising therapeutic candidate for the treatment of systemic inflammatory diseases.
Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) can be divided into classical variant of PTC (cPTC), follicular variant of PTC (fvPTC), and tall cell variant (tcPTC). These variants differ in their histopathology and cytology; however, their molecular background is not clearly understood. Our results shed some new light on papillary thyroid cancer biology as new direct miRNA-gene regulations are discovered. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) 466 thyroid cancer samples were studied in parallel datasets to discover potential miRNA-mRNA regulations. Additionally, miRNAs and genes differentiating PTC variants (cPTC, fvPTC, and tcPTC) were indicated. Putative miRNA regulatory pairs were discovered: hsa-miR-146b-5p with PHKB and IRAK1, hsa-miR-874-3p with ITGB4 characteristic for classic PTC samples, and hsa-miR-152-3p with TGFA characteristic for follicular variant PTC samples. MiRNA-mRNA regulations discovery opens a new perspective in understanding of PTC biology. Furthermore, our successful pipeline of miRNA-mRNA regulatory pathways discovery could serve as a universal tool to find new miRNA-mRNA regulations, also in different datasets.
Inflammation and abnormalities in Toll-like receptor (TLR) expression and activation have been linked to major depressive disorder (MDD). However, negative regulators of TLR pathways have not been previously investigated in this context. Here, we sought to investigate the association of depression severity, measured by the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-17), with mRNA expression levels of negative regulators of the TLR pathway, including SOCS1, TOLLIP, SIGIRR, MyD88s, NOD2 and TNFAIP3, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 100 patients with MDD and 53 healthy controls, before and after treatment with antidepressants. Positive regulators of the TLR4 pathway, including Pellino 1, TRAF6 and IRAK1, were also investigated. Among all patients, MyD88s, and TNFAIP3 mRNAs were expressed at lower levels in PBMCs from patients with MDD. Multiple linear regression analyses revealed that TNFAIP3 mRNA expression before treatment was inversely correlated with severity of depression and effectively predicted improvement in HAMD-17 scores. Among 79 treatment-completers, only TNFAIP3 mRNA was significantly increased by treatment with antidepressants for 4 weeks. Treatment of human monocytes (THP-1) and mouse microglia (SIM-A9) cell lines with fluoxetine significantly increased TNFAIP3 mRNA expression and suppressed IL-6 levels. The suppressive effect of fluoxetine on IL-6 was attenuated by knockdown of TNFAIP3 expression. These findings suggest that both dysfunction of the negative regulatory system in patients with MDD and antidepressant treatment exert anti-inflammatory effects, at least in part through increased expression of the TNFAIP3 gene. They also indicate that modulating expression of the TNFAIP3 gene to rebalance TLR-mediated inflammatory signaling may be potential therapeutic strategy for treating MDD.
Assisted reproductive technology (ART) is widely used for the women with infertility conditions to achieve pregnancy. However, the adverse effects of ART may lead to poor perinatal and neonatal outcomes, e.g., preterm birth and low body weight. In this study, we investigated the inflammatory molecular factors and microRNA that might be involved in ART related preterm birth. We found the elevation of Toll-like 4 receptor (TLR4), activation of NFκB pathway and down-regulation of microRNA-146a (miR-146a), a negative regulator of NFκB, in the placenta of preterm birth and ART, indicating preterm birth and ART were associated with inflammation signaling activation. In vitro experiments demonstrated that miR-146a suppressed NFκB pathway and shifted the balance of cytokines in the cord blood toward a repertoire of pro-inflammatory outcomes by down-regulating IRAK1 and TRAF6. The pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, IFNγ and TNFα in the cord blood were highly expressed in the preterm and ART, while anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 was the lower in the preterm and ART. In summary, we firstly uncovered that TLR4/NFκB mediated inflammation signaling and miR-146a participated in ART-related preterm birth patients, which suggests that importance of TLR4/NFκB/miR-146a signaling in clinical interventions and biomarkers of ART-related perinatal or neonatal outcomes.
BACKGROUND: Interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), as a down-stream of toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling, plays important roles in series of malignancies. However, the role of IRAK1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains little known.METHODS: In our study, reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR), Western Blot, and immunohistochemical staining were used to assess the mRNA and protein levels of IRAK1 in clinical samples and cell lines. Cell counting assay and flow cytometry were employed to analyze the effect of IRAK1 on cell cycle and apoptosis. Transwell assay was used to study the role of IRAK1 in cell migration. Moreover, subcutaneous xenograft tumor models predict the efficacy of targeting IRAK1 against HCC in vivo.RESULTS: IRAK1 was over-expressed in HCC tissues and cell lines. Suppression of IRAK1 by small interference RNA (siRNA) or a pharmaceutical IRAK1/4 inhibitor impeded cell growth, induced apoptosis and lessened HCC xenograft tumor growth. Particularly, IRAK1/4 inhibitor treatment caused G1/S cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, confirming IRAK1 as a new therapeutic target for HCC.CONCLUSION: IRAK1 promotes cell proliferation and protects against apoptosis in HCC, and can be a novel target for HCC treatment.
Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui Medical University, 81 Meishan Road, 230032, Hefei, Anhui, China.(2)Anhui Provincial Laboratory of Population Health & Major Disease Screening and Diagnosis, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China.(3)ChaoHu Hospital, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China.(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui Medical University, 81 Meishan Road, 230032, Hefei, Anhui, China. ydq@ahmu.edu.cn.(5)Anhui Provincial Laboratory of Population Health & Major Disease Screening and Diagnosis, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China. ydq@ahmu.edu.cn.
IκBζ, an atypical member of the nuclear IκB family of proteins, is expressed at low levels in most resting cells, but is induced upon stimulation of Toll-like/IL-1 receptors through an IRAK1/IRAK4/NFκB-dependent pathway. Like its homolog Bcl3, IκBζ can regulate the transcription of a set of inflamatory genes through its association with the p50 or p52 subunits of NF-κB. Long studied as a key component of the immune response, IκBζ emerges as an important regulator of inflammation, cell proliferation and survival. As a result, growing evidence support the role of this transcription factor in the pathogenesis number of human hematological and solid malignancies.
Bee venom has long been used as a traditional folk medicine in Korea. It has been reportedly used for the treatment of arthritis, cancer, and inflammation. Although its anti-inflammatory activity in lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) stimulated inflammatory cells has been reported, the exact mechanism of its anti-inflammatory action has not been fully elucidated. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the anti-inflammatory mechanism of bee venom in BV2 microglial cells. We first investigated whether NO production in LPS-activated BV2 cells was inhibited by bee venom, and further iNOS mRNA and protein expressions were determined. The mRNA and protein levels of proinflammatory cytokines were examined using semiquantitative RT-PCR and immunoblotting, respectively. Moreover, modulation of the transcription factor NF-κB by bee venom was also investigated using a luciferase assay. LPS-induced NO production in BV2 microglial cells was significantly inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner upon pretreatment with bee venom. Bee venom markedly reduced the mRNA expression of COX-2, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 and suppressed LPS-induced activation of MyD88 and IRAK1 and phosphorylation of TAK1. Moreover, NF-κB translocation by IKKα/β phosphorylation and subsequent IκB-α degradation were also attenuated. Thus, collectively, these results indicate that bee venom exerts its anti-inflammatory activity via the IRAK1/TAK1/NF-κB signaling pathway.
Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) regulates inflammatory M1 macrophage polarization, and disease-associated IRF5 genetic variants regulate pattern-recognition-receptor (PRR)-induced cytokines. PRR-stimulated macrophages and M1 macrophages exhibit enhanced glycolysis, a central mediator of inflammation. We find that IRF5 is needed for PRR-enhanced glycolysis in human macrophages and in mice in vivo. Upon stimulation of the PRR nucleotide binding oligomerization domain containing 2 (NOD2) in human macrophages, IRF5 binds RIP2, IRAK1, and TRAF6. IRF5, in turn, is required for optimal Akt2 activation, which increases expression of glycolytic pathway genes and HIF1A as well as pro-inflammatory cytokines and M1 polarization. Furthermore, pro-inflammatory cytokines and glycolytic pathways co-regulate each other. Rs2004640/rs2280714 TT/TT IRF5 disease-risk-carrier cells demonstrate increased IRF5 expression and increased PRR-induced Akt2 activation, glycolysis, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and M1 polarization relative to GG/CC carrier macrophages. Our findings identify that IRF5 disease-associated polymorphisms regulate diverse immunological and metabolic outcomes and provide further insight into mechanisms contributing to the increasingly recognized important role for glycolysis in inflammation.
AIMS: Exogenously administered biglycan (core protein with high-molecular weight glycosaminoglycan chains) has been shown to protect neonatal cardiomyocytes against simulated ischemia/reperfusion injury (SI/R), however, the mechanism of action is not clear. In this study we aimed to investigate, which structural component of biglycan is responsible for its cardiocytoprotective effect and to further explore the molecular mechanisms involved in the cytoprotection.METHODS AND RESULTS: A pilot study was conducted to demonstrate that both native (glycanated) and deglycanated biglycan can attenuate cell death induced by SI/R in a dose-dependent manner in primary neonatal cardiomyocytes isolated from Wistar rats. In separate experiments, we have shown that similarly to glycanated biglycan, recombinant human biglycan core protein (rhBGNc) protects cardiomyocytes against SI/R injury. In contrast, the glycosaminoglycan component dermatan sulfate had no significant effect on cell viability, while chondroitin sulfate further enhanced cell death induced by SI/R. Treatment of cardiomyocytes with rhBGNc reverses the effect of SI/R upon markers of necrosis, apoptosis, mitochondrial membrane potential, and autophagy. We have also shown that pharmacological blockade of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling or its downstream mediators (IRAK1/4, ERK, JNK and p38 MAP kinases) abolished the cytoprotective effect of rhBGNc against SI/R injury. Pretreatment of cardiomyocytes with rhBGNc for 20h resulted in increased Akt phosphorylation and NO production without having significant effect on phosphorylation of ERK1/2, STAT3, and on the production of superoxide. Treatment over 10min and 1h with rhBGNc increased ERK1 phosphorylation, while the SI/R-induced increase in superoxide production was attenuated by rhBGNc. Blockade of NO synthesis also prevented the cardiocytoprotective effect of rhBGNc.CONCLUSIONS: The core protein of exogenous biglycan protects myocardial cells from SI/R injury via TLR4-mediated mechanisms involving activation of ERK, JNK and p38 MAP kinases and increased NO production. The cytoprotective effect of rhBGNc is due to modulation of SI/R-induced changes in necrosis, apoptosis and autophagy.
The TLR/IL-1R pathway is a critical signaling module that is misregulated in pathologies like inflammation and cancer. Extracts from turmeric (Curcuma longa L.) enriched in curcumin and carbonyls like turmerones have been shown to exert potent anti-inflammatory effects. The present study evaluated the anti-inflammatory activity, cytotoxic effect and the underlying mechanism of a novel chemically modified, non-carbonyl compound enriched Curcuma longa L. (C. longa) extract (CMCE). CMCE (1 or 10 μg/mL; 14 h) significantly decreased LPS (50-100 ng/mL) induced TNF-α and IL-1β production in THP-1 cells, human, and mouse whole blood as measured by ELISA. LPS-induced IRAK1, MAPK activation, TLR4 expression, TLR4-MyD88 interaction, and IκBα degradation were significantly reduced in CMCE pre-treated THP-1 cells as assessed by Western blotting. CMCE (30, 100, and 300 mg/kg; 10 days p.o.) pre-treated and LPS (10 mg/kg) challenged Swiss mice exhibited attenuated plasma TNF-α, IL-1β, nitrite, aortic iNOS expression, and vascular dysfunction. In a PI permeability assay, cell lines derived from acute myeloid leukemia were most sensitive to the cytotoxic effects of CMCE. Analysis of Sub-G1 phase, Annexin V-PI positivity, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, increased caspase-3, and PARP-1 activation confirmed CMCE induced apoptosis in HL-60 cells. IRAK inhibition also sensitized HL-60 cells to CMCE induced cytotoxicity. The present study defines the mechanism underlying the action of CMCE and suggests a therapeutic potential for its use in sepsis and leukemia.
Airway epithelial cells are the major target for rhinovirus (RV) infection and express proinflammatory chemokines and antiviral cytokines that play a role in innate immunity. Previously, we demonstrated that RV interaction with TLR2 causes ILR-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) depletion in both airway epithelial cells and macrophages. Further, IRAK-1 degradation caused by TLR2 activation was shown to inhibit ssRNA-induced IFN expression in dendritic cells. Therefore, in this study, we examined the role of TLR2 and IRAK-1 in RV-induced IFN-β, IFN-λ1, and CXCL-10, which require signaling by viral RNA. In airway epithelial cells, blocking TLR2 enhanced RV-induced expression of IFNs and CXCL-10. By contrast, IRAK-1 inhibition abrogated RV-induced expression of CXCL-10, but not IFNs in these cells. Neutralization of IL-33 or its receptor, ST2, which requires IRAK-1 for signaling, inhibited RV-stimulated CXCL-10 expression. In addition, RV induced expression of both ST2 and IL-33 in airway epithelial cells. In macrophages, however, RV-stimulated CXCL-10 expression was primarily dependent on TLR2/IL-1R. Interestingly, in a mouse model of RV infection, blocking ST2 not only attenuated RV-induced CXCL-10, but also lung inflammation. Finally, influenza- and respiratory syncytial virus-induced CXCL-10 was also found to be partially dependent on IL-33/ST2/IRAK-1 signaling in airway epithelial cells. Together, our results indicate that RV stimulates CXCL-10 expression via the IL-33/ST2 signaling axis, and that TLR2 signaling limits RV-induced CXCL-10 via IRAK-1 depletion at least in airway epithelial cells. To our knowledge, this is the first report to demonstrate the role of respiratory virus-induced IL-33 in the induction of CXCL-10 in airway epithelial cells.
OBJECTIVE: Toll-like receptor signaling activated by bacterial otitis media pathogens in the middle ear has been shown to play a key role in OM susceptibility, pathogenesis and recovery. Recent studies implicate microRNA 146 (miR-146) in regulation of inflammation via negative feedback of toll-like receptor signaling (TLR) in a wide variety of tissues, however its involvement in otitis media is unknown.METHODS: Human middle ear epithelial cells were stimulated with proinflammatory cytokines, interleukin 1 beta or tumor necrosis factor alpha, for two to twenty-four hours. Middle ear biopsies were collected from children with otitis media with effusion (n = 20), recurrent otitis media (n = 9), and control subjects undergoing cochlear implantation (n = 10). miR-146a, miR-146b expression was assayed by quantitative PCR (qPCR). Expression of miR-146 targets involved in TLR signaling, IRAK1 and TRAF6, was assayed by qPCR in middle ear biopsies. Middle ear biopsies were cryosectioned and epithelial thickness measured by a certified pathologist.RESULTS: Proinflammatory cytokines induced expression of miR-146 in middle ear epithelial cells in vitro. Middle ear miR-146a and miR-146b expression was elevated in otitis media patients relative to control subjects and correlated with middle ear epithelial thickness. A trend towards inverse correlation was observed between miR-146 and TRAF6 expression in the clinical population.CONCLUSIONS: This report is the first to assess miRNA expression in a clinical population with OM. Findings herein suggest miR-146 may play a role in OM.
As pathogen-associated molecular pattern sensors, the TLRs can detect diverse ligands to elicit either proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory responses, but the mechanism that dictates such contrasting immune responses is not well understood. In this work, we demonstrate that proline-proline-glutamic acid (PPE)17 protein of Mycobacterium tuberculosis induces TLR1/2 heterodimerization to elicit proinflammatory-type response, whereas PPE18-induced homodimerization of TLR2 triggers anti-inflammatory type responses. Ligation of TLR1/2 caused an increased recruitment of IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK)1, MyD88, and protein kinase C (PKC)ε to the downstream TLR-signaling complex that translocated PKCε into the nucleus in an IRAK1-dependent manner. PKCε-mediated phosphorylation allowed the nuclear IRAK3 to be exported to the cytoplasm, leading to increased activation of ERK1/2, stabilization of MAPK phosphatase 1 (MKP-1), and induction of TNF-α with concomitant downregulation of p38MAPK. Silencing of TLR1 inhibited PPE17-triggered cytoplasmic export of IRAK3 as well as TNF-α induction, suggesting an important role of TLR1/2 heterodimer in regulating proinflammatory responses via the IRAK3-signaling pathway. In contrast, PPE18-mediated homodimerization of TLR2 caused poorer cytoplasmic export of nuclear IRAK3 and MKP-1 stabilization, resulting in increased p38MAPK activation. Our study hints to a novel mechanism that implicates PKCε-IRAK3-MKP-1 signaling in the regulation of MAPK activity and inflammatory cascades downstream of TLR2 in tuberculosis.
The genomic profile of multiple myeloma (MM) has prognostic value by dividing patients into a good prognosis hyperdiploid group and a bad prognosis nonhyperdiploid group with a higher incidence of IGH translocations. This classification, however, is inadequate and many other parameters like mutations, epigenetic modifications, and genomic heterogeneity may influence the prognosis. We performed a genomic study by array-based comparative genomic hybridization on a cohort of 162 patients to evaluate the frequency of genomic gains and losses. We identified a high frequency of X chromosome alterations leading to partial Xq duplication, often associated with inactive X (Xi) deletion in female patients. This partial X duplication could be a cytogenetic marker of aneuploidy as it is correlated with a high number of chromosomal breakages. Patient with high level of chromosomal breakage had reduced survival regardless the region implicated. A higher transcriptional level was shown for genes with potential implication in cancer and located in this altered region. Among these genes, IKBKG and IRAK1 are members of the NFKB pathway which plays an important role in MM and is a target for specific treatments. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Co-infection with infectious spleen and kidney necrosis virus (ISKNV) and Aeromonas hydrophila is becoming ever more widespread in Chinese perch (Siniperca chuatsi) aquaculture industry, so that it's necessary to develop the combined vaccine against ISKNV and A. hydrophila disease. The surface display of heterologous on bacteria using anchoring motifs from outer membranes proteins has already been explored as an effective delivery system of viral antigens. In present study, the ISKNV orf086 gene, which is verified as a protective antigen, was inserted into ompA gene cassette of A. hydrophila GYK1 strain by homologous recombination. And an ompA-orf086 fusion A. hydrophila mutant strain K28 was constructed. Then the ISKNV orf086 was verified to express on the surface of A. hydrophila K28 by RT-PCR, western blot and indirect immunofluorescence assay. Next, Chinese perch were intraperitoneally inoculated with formalin inactivated A. hydrophila k28 emulsified with ISA763 adjuvant with a dose of 9 × 10(8) CFU per fish. Transcriptional analysis of non-specific and specific immune related genes revealed that the expression levels of IRF-7, IRAK1, Mx, Viperin, Lysozyme and IgM were strongly up-regulated in Chinese perch post-inoculation. In addition, specific antibodies were detected by ELISA, and the results showed that antibody titer against ISKNV or A. hydrophila reached the highest with 1:800 or 1:1200 on 14dpv, respectively. Lymphocyte proliferation were detected by MTT methods, and the results showed that the SI values of AH-K28 vaccinated group to three different stimulators were significantly higher than those of control group. At last, protective efficacy were determined by challenge trials. The cumulative mortality rates of vaccinated groups were significantly lower than the control one (P < 0.05) after ISKNV or A. hydrophila challenge, and the relative percentage survival (RPS) value was 73.3% and 60%, respectively. This system provides a novel approach to the surface display of heterologous antigenic proteins on A. hydrophila and suggests the possibility to use the recombinant K28 strain as a combined vaccine against ISKNV and A. hydrophila infection.
Epidemiological and clinical studies indicate a close relationship between obesity and asthma. Here, we determined the impact of diet-induced obesity on the expression levels of IL-1β, IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 mRNA as well as IL-1β protein level and pathological changes in male Wistar rat's lung after sensitization with ovalbumin (OVA). Twenty male Wistar rats divided into four groups, control with normal diet (C+ND), OVA-sensitized with normal diet (S+ND), control with high-fat diet (C+HFD), and OVA-sensitized with high-fat diet (S+HFD). All rats fed for 12 weeks with standard pellets or high-fat diet while sensitization and challenging with OVA or saline were done for groups in the last month. In the end of intervention, lung was isolated and tested for the expression levels of IL-1β, IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 mRNA with real time-PCR method, and pathological changes were determined. Diet-induced obesity groups showed increased weight, obesity indexes and lipid profiles The expression levels of IL-1β mRNA in OVA-sensitization groups (S+ND and S+HFD) showed a significant increase compared with other groups. Also in S+HFD group, expression level of IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 mRNA were markedly higher than other groups (p<0.001). The pathological changes were marked in sensitized groups compared to non-sensitized groups; with marked increase in obese sensitized rat. The results showed that high fat diet caused overexpression of IL-1β, IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 mRNA as well as IL-1β protein in an experimental model of asthma. Our results suggest that obese-asthmatic conditions may lead to the local production and activation of pro-inflammatory agents.
Engeletin (dihydrokaempferol 3-rhamnoside) is a flavanonol glycoside. It can be found in the skin of white grapes and white wine and is widely distributed in southeast Asia, and the leaves are used in a tea. Here, we explored the impact of engeletin against the inflammatory reaction in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced endometritis mouse model. Engeletin treatment significantly attenuated uterus damage and decreased myeloperoxidase activity. ELISA and qPCR assays showed that engeletin dose-dependently suppressed the expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6. Molecular studies also demonstrated that the levels of iNOS, COX-2, and TLR4, along with their downstream molecules MyD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, and TAK1, were also suppressed by engeletin. In addition, engeletin treatment inhibited NF-κB signaling-pathway activation. Moreover, immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated that engeletin suppressed NF-κB-p65 nuclear translocation. These data indicated the protective action of engeletin against LPS-stimulated endometritis in mice via negative regulation of pro-inflammatory mediators via the TLR4-regulated NF-κB pathway.
Sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disease of unknown etiology that primarily affects the lungs. Our previous work indicates that activation of p38 plays a pivotal role in sarcoidosis inflammatory response. Therefore, we investigated the upstream kinase responsible for activation of p38 in sarcoidosis alveolar macrophages (AMs) and PBMCs. We identified that sustained p38 phosphorylation in sarcoidosis AMs and PBMCs is associated with active MAPK kinase 4 but not with MAPK kinase 3/6. Additionally, we found that sarcoidosis AMs exhibit a higher expression of IRAK1, IRAK-M, and receptor interacting protein 2 (Rip2). Surprisingly, ex vivo treatment of sarcoidosis AMs or PBMCs with IRAK1/4 inhibitor led to a significant increase in IL-1β mRNA expression both spontaneously and in response to TLR2 ligand. However, a combination of Rip2 and IRAK-1/4 inhibitors significantly decreased both IL-1β and IL-6 production in sarcoidosis PBMCs and moderately in AMs. Importantly, a combination of Rip2 and IRAK-1/4 inhibitors led to decreased IFN-γ and IL-6 and decreased percentage of activated CD4(+)CD25(+) cells in PBMCs. These data suggest that in sarcoidosis, both pathways, namely IRAK and Rip2, are deregulated. Targeted modulation of Rip2 and IRAK pathways may prove to be a novel treatment for sarcoidosis.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway is demonstrated to be involved in the hepatic fibrosis. MicroRNA (miR)-146a-5p is a key regulator of the innate immune response. The functional significance of miR-146a-5p during the LPS/TLR4 mediated hepatic fibrosis process remains unclear. In this study, we found that TLR4 and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) were up-regulated and miR-146a-5p was down-regulated in human hepatic stellate cell (HSC) line LX2 after LPS stimulation. Overexpression of miR-146a-5p inhibited LPS induced pro-inflammatory cytokines secretion through down-regulating the expression levels of TLR-4, IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor associated factor-6 (TRAF6) and phosphorylation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). Knockdown of IRAK1 and TRAF6 also suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokine production by inhibiting NF-κB phosphorylation. In addition, miR-146a-5p mimic blocked LPS induced TRAF6 dependent c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and Smad2 activation as well as α-SMA production. Taken together, these results suggest that miR-146a-5p suppresses pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion and cell activation of HSC through inhibition of TLR4/NF-κB and TLR4/TRAF6/JNK pathway.
As crucial components of the toll-like receptor (TLR) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor (IL-1R) signaling pathways, interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase (IRAK) family members play essential roles in an animal's immune response. In this study, an IRAK family member, designated EcIRAK-1, was identified in the orange-spotted grouper Epinephelus coioides, and its role in signal transduction investigated. The full-length EcIRAK-1 gene is 2822 bp, encoding a 760-amino-acid protein that has the typical characteristics of mammalian IRAK-1, including an N-terminal death domain, a ProST domain, a central kinase domain, and C-terminal C1 and C2 domains. EcIRAK-1 shares 42%-79% sequence identity with other fish IRAK-1 proteins, and the death and kinase domains are more conserved than the other domains. Several important amino acids and motifs of mammalian IRAK-1 are also conserved in the grouper and other piscine IRAK-1s. In healthy grouper, EcIRAK-1 was broadly expressed in all the tissues tested, with the highest expression in the gill and skin. After infection with Cryptocaryon irritans, EcIRAK-1 expression increased in the gill and spleen. After its exogenous expression in HEK293T cells, EcIRAK-1 significantly activated nuclear factor kappaB (NF-κB). The death domain, ProST domain, and some conserved amino acids, such as T58, T207, K237, and T387, in EcIRAK-1 are required for its signaling function. These data demonstrate that piscine IRAK-1 has the same structural characteristics as its mammalian counterpart and that its function is conserved among vertebrates.
PURPOSE: Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) is the most common salivary gland malignancy. To explore the genetic origins of MEC, we performed systematic genomic analyses of these tumors.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Whole-exome sequencing and gene copy-number analyses were performed for 18 primary cancers with matched normal tissue. FISH was used to determine the presence or absence of the MECT1-MAML2 translocation in 17 tumors.RESULTS: TP53 was the most commonly mutated gene in MEC (28%), and mutations were found only in intermediate- and high-grade tumors. Tumors with TP53 mutations had more mutations overall than tumors without TP53 mutations (P = 0.006). POU6F2 was the second most frequently mutated gene, found in three low-grade MECs with the same in-frame deletion. Somatic alterations in IRAK1, MAP3K9, ITGAL, ERBB4, OTOGL, KMT2C, and OBSCN were identified in at least two of the 18 tumors sequenced. FISH analysis confirmed the presence of the MECT1-MAML2 translocation in 15 of 17 tumors (88%).CONCLUSIONS: Through these integrated genomic analyses, MECT1-MAML2 translocation and somatic TP53 and POU6F2 mutations appear to be the main drivers of MEC. Clin Cancer Res; 23(1); 283-8. ©2016 AACR.
Anthraquinone-2-carboxlic acid (9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxo-2-anthracenecarboxylic acid, AQCA) was identified as one of the major anthraquinones in Brazilian taheebo. Since there was no report explaining its immunopharmacological actions, in this study, we aimed to investigate the molecular mechanism of AQCA-mediated anti-inflammatory activity using reporter gene assays, kinase assays, immunoblot analyses, and overexpression strategies with lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated macrophages. AQCA was found to suppress the release of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin (PG) E₂ from LPS-treated peritoneal macrophages without displaying any toxic side effects. Molecular analysis revealed that AQCA was able to inhibit the activation of the nuclear factor (NF)-κB and activator protein (AP)-1 pathways by direct suppression of upstream signaling enzymes including interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk). Therefore, our data strongly suggest that AQCA-mediated suppression of inflammatory responses could be managed by a direct interference of signaling cascades including IRAK and Syk, linked to the activation of NF-κB and AP-1.
The Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) isotype ApoE4 is a prevalent genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) that can modulate systemic and central inflammation, independent of amyloid accumulation. Although disruption of innate immune toll receptor signaling is modulated by ApoE and observed in AD, ApoE isotype-specific effects remain poorly understood. Therefore, we examined the effect of the ApoE isotype on the brain levels of major regulators of TLR signaling including miR146a, a microRNA enriched in the brain. We used 6-month-old ApoE3 or ApoE4 targeted replacement mice with and without mutant familial AD transgenes. ApoE4 reduced the levels of miR146a compared with ApoE3, both in the brain (29%; P<0.0001) and in plasma (47%; P<0.05), which correlated with each other (r=0.74; P<0.05). The presence of 5xFAD transgenes increased brain miR146a in both ApoE3 (E3FAD) and ApoE4 (E4FAD) mice; however, miR146a levels in E4FAD mice remained lower than those in E3FAD mice (62%; P<0.05), despite increased amyloid and inflammation. Supporting these observations, ApoE4 brains showed increased expression of interleukin receptor-associated kinase-1 (160%; P<0.05) (normally downregulated by miR146) that correlated inversely with miR146a levels (r=0.637; P<0.0001). Reduced negative feedback of toll-like receptor signaling (by miRNA146a) can explain early-life hypersensitivity to innate immune stimuli (including Aβ) in ApoE4 carriers. Thus, ApoE4 causes early dysregulation of a central controller of the innate immune system both centrally and systemically. This defect persists with familial AD pathology and may be relevant to ApoE4 AD risk.
OBJECTIVES: Human and animal studies have shown a close relationship between obesity and asthma severity. Here, we examined the effects of diet-induced obesity (DIO) on the expression levels of IL-1β, IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 mRNA in male Wistar rats tracheal after sensitization with ovalbumin (OVA).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty male Wistar rats divided to four groups, included, control group with normal diet (C+ND), OVA-sensitized group with normal diet (S+ND), control group with high-fat diet (C+HFD), and OVA-sensitized group with high-fat diet (S+HFD). All animals fed for 8 weeks with standard pelts or high-fat diet, and then were sensitized and challenged with OVA or saline for another 4 weeks with designed regimens. At the end of study, trachea isolated and examined for expression levels of IL-1β, IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 mRNA with RT-PCR method.RESULTS: Diet-induced obesity groups developed increased weight, obesity indexes and lipid profiles (P<0.05 to P<0.001). The expression levels of IL-1β mRNA in OVA-sensitization groups (S+ND and S+HFD) showed a significantly increased when compared with control group. Also in S+HFD group, expression level of TRAF-6 mRNA was higher than other groups (P<0.001). IRAK-1 expression level was high in S+HFD compared with control group.IL-1β and TRAF-6 mRNA correlated positively with obesity indexes.CONCLUSION: The results showed that DIO causes overexpression of IL-1β, IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 mRNA in an experimental model of asthma. Our results suggested that in obese-asthmatic conditions locally production and activation of pro-inflammatory agents can be increased. These findings showed that possible mechanism for obesity-asthma relationships.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK1) is linked to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis; however, its role in macrophage foam cell formation is not known. Therefore, the present study investigated the role of IRAK1 in lipid uptake, biosynthesis, and efflux in THP-1 derived macrophages and human monocyte-derived macrophages (HMDMs). Ox-LDL (40 μg/mL, 15 minutes-48 hours) treatment induced time-dependent increase in IRAK1, IRAK4, and Stat1 activation in THP-1 derived macrophages. IRAK1/4 inhibitor (INH) or IRAK1 siRNA significantly attenuated cholesterol accumulation, DiI-Ox-LDL binding, and uptake while cholesterol efflux to apoAI and HDL was enhanced in THP-1 derived macrophages and HMDMs. Ox-LDL treatment significantly increased the mRNA expression of CD36, LOX-1, SR-A, ABCA1, ABCG1, Caveolin-1, CYP27A1 while that of SR-BI was decreased. IRAK1/4 inhibition or IRAK1 knockdown, however, attenuated Ox-LDL-induced CD36 expression; augmented ABCA1 and ABCG1 expression while expression of others was unaffected in THP-1 derived macrophages and HMDMs. Moreover, IRAK1/4 inhibition had no significant effect on genes involved in lipid biosynthesis. In IRAK1/4 INH pre-treated THP-1 derived macrophages Ox-LDL-induced Stat1 phosphorylation and its binding to CD36 promoter was significantly attenuated while LXRα expression and its binding to the ABCA1/ABCG1 locus, NFATc2 activation and its binding to ABCA1 locus was enhanced. The present study thus demonstrates that IRAK regulates lipid accumulation by modulating CD36-mediated uptake and ABCA1-, ABCG1-dependent cholesterol efflux. Therefore, IRAK1 can be a potential target for preventing macrophage foam cell formation.
Fructose consumption induces metabolic syndrome to increase cardiovascular disease risk. Cinnamaldehyde and allopurinol possess anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory activity to relieve heart injury in metabolic syndrome. But the mechanisms of fructose-induced cardiac injury, and cardioprotective effects of cinnamaldehyde and allopurinol are not completely understood. In this study, fructose-fed rats displayed metabolic syndrome with elevated serum ox-LDL, cardiac oxidative stress, inflammation and fibrosis. Scavenger receptor CD36, Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), TLR6, IL-1R-associated kinase 4/1 (IRAK4/1), nucleotide-binding domain (NOD)-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, interleukin-1β, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), drosophila mothers against DPP homolog (Smad) 2/3 phosphorylation and Smad4 were increased in animal and H9c2 cell models. These pathological processes were further evaluated in ox-LDL or fructose-exposed H9c2 cells pretreated with ROS scavenger and CD36 specific inhibitor, or IRAK1/4 inhibitor, and transfected with CD36, NLRP3, or IRAK4/1 siRNA, demonstrating that NLPR3 inflammasome activation through CD36-mediated TLR4/6-IRAK4/1 signaling may promote cardiac inflammation and fibrosis. Cinnamaldehyde and allopurinol reduced cardiac oxidative stress to suppress NLPR3 inflammasome activation and TGF-β/Smads signaling by inhibiting CD36-mediated TLR4/6-IRAK4/1 signaling under fructose induction. These results suggest that the blockage of CD36-mediated TLR4/6-IRAK4/1 signaling to suppress NLRP3 inflammasome activation by cinnamaldehyde and allopurinol may protect against fructose-induced cardiac inflammation and fibrosis.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Yishui Central Hospital, Linyi, Shandong 276400, China.(2)Department of Hand and Foot Surgery, Yishui Central Hospital, Linyi, Shandong 276400, China.
MicroRNA-146a is one of most important microRNAs involved in development of endotoxin tolerance via (toll-like receptors) TLRs/ NF-κB pathway. In this study, we sought to identify the mechanistic role of miR-146a in mediating the protective effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) pretreatment on kidney ischemia/reperfusion injury. A locked nucleic acid-modified anti-miR-146a given before LPS treatment knocked down miR-146a expression and completely negated LPS-mediated protection against kidney ischemia/reperfusion injury. Knockdown of miR-146a resulted in significantly higher histopathological scores for tubular damage, expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, and neutrophil and macrophage infiltration. Furthermore, knockdown of miR-146a greatly up-regulated the protein levels of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK-1) and tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), which are known target genes of miR-146a, leading to activation of NF-κB. Finally, elevation of nuclear translocation of NF-κB p65/p50 and caspase-3 expression, degradation of cytosolic IkBα and BcL-xL, and substantially exacerbation of tubular cell apoptosis were inversely correlated with miR-146a expression. Taken together, our results identify that miR146a exerts a kidney protective effect through negative regulation of acute inflammatory response by suppressing NF-κB activation and proinflammatory genes expression.
OBJECTIVE: Interleukin-1 beta (IL1B) pathway is a key player in orthodontic-induced external apical root resorption (EARR). The aim of this work was to identify the genes related to the IL1 pathway as possible candidate genes for EARR, which might be included in an integrative predictive model of this complex phenotype.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using a stepwise multiple linear regression model, 195 patients who had undergone orthodontic treatment were assessed for clinical and genetic factors associated with %EARRmax (maximum %EARR value obtained for each patient). The four maxillary incisors and the two maxillary canines were assessed. Three functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped: rs1143634 in IL1B gene, rs315952 in IL1RN gene, and rs1059703 in X-linked IRAK1 gene.RESULTS: The model showed that four of the nine clinical variables and one SNP explained 30% of the %EARRmax variability. The most significant unique contributions to the model were gender (P = 0.001), treatment duration (P < 0.001), premolar extractions (P = 0.003), Hyrax appliance (P < 0.001), and homozygosity/hemizygosity for variant C from IRAK1 gene (P = 0.018), which proved to be a protective factor.CONCLUSION: IRAK1 polymorphism is proposed as a protective variant for EARR.
Inflammation is inseparable part of different diseases especially cancer and autoimmunity. During inflammation process toll like receptor 4(TLR4) responds to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), one of the bacterial components, and TLR4 signaling leads to interleukine-1 receptor associated kinase-1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor associated factor6 (TRAF6) activation which ultimately results in nuclear factor- ĸB (NF-ĸB) activation as the main transcription factor of inflammatory cytokines. Conversely, NF-ĸB over activation induces miR-146a in innate immune cells which can consequently reduce TRAF6, IRAK1, and NF-ĸB activation in a negative feedback. G2013 is a novel designed non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) which was recently shown to be effective in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mouse model. The aim of this study was to evaluate G2013 effects on inflammatory (IRAK1 and TRAF6) and anti-inflammatory (miR-146a) factors of TLR4 signaling pathway. For this purpose, cytotoxicity of G2013 has been evaluated by MTT assay. Expression level of miR-146a in PBMCs and IRAK1 along with TRAF6 in HEK-293 TLR4 cells have been determined using real time PCR. Our results showed that IC50 of G2013 was 25μg/ml, thus 5 and 25 μg/ml concentrations used for further treatments as low dose and high dose concentrations. Our results showed that IRAK1 expression reduced between 5 to 8 fold after treatment by G2013 in a dose dependent manner (p<0.001). In parallel TRAF6 expression declined between 3 to 10 fold dose dependently (p<0.05). However, miR-146a expression was not affected after treatment with low dose and high dose of G2013. In conclusion our data showed that G2013 can regulate TLR4 signaling pathway during inflammation by reducing downstream signaling molecules, IRAK1 and TRAF6 without altering miR-146a expression.
OBJECTIVE: Celastrol has been established as a nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation inhibitor; however, the exact mechanism behind this action is still unknown. Using text-mining technology, the authors predicted that interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAKs) are potential celastrol targets, and hypothesized that targeting IRAKs might be one way that celastrol inhibits NF-κB. This is because IRAKs are key molecules for some crucial pathways to activate NF-κB (e.g., the interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R)/Toll-like receptor (TLR) superfamily).METHODS: The human hepatocellular cell line (HepG2) treated with palmitic acid (PA) was used as a model for stimulating TLR4/NF-κB activation, in order to observe the potential effects of celastrol in IRAK regulation and NF-κB inhibition. The transfection of small interfering RNA was used for down-regulating TLR4, IRAK1 and IRAK4, and the Western blot method was used to detect changes in the protein expressions.RESULTS: The results showed that celastrol could effectively inhibit PA-caused TLR4-dependent NF-κB activation in the HepG2 cells; PA also activated IRAKs, which were inhibited by celastrol. Knocking down IRAKs abolished PA-caused NF-κB activation.CONCLUSION: The results for the first time show that targeting IRAKs is one way in which celastrol inhibits NF-κB activation.
INTRODUCTION: Chromosome Xq28 duplications encompassing methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 gene (MECP2) are observed most in males with a severe neurodevelopmental disorder associated with hypotonia, spasticity, severe learning disability, delayed psychomotor development, and recurrent pulmonary infections. Most female carriers are asymptomatic due to extremely or completely skewed X-inactivation.METHODS: A retrospective clinical and molecular study was conducted to examine 16 patients and two fetuses from 10 families who were identified among patients with Xq28 duplications who presented at genetic clinics.RESULTS: Of all 16 patients, 10 had a family history. Only one patient was female. All of the patients had no relevant pre-natal history. All of the patients exhibited severe psychomotor developmental delay, infantile hypotonia and recurrent infections. Some of the patients exhibited cardiac abnormalities, gastrointestinal mobility problems, hydrocele of tunica vaginalis, cryptorchidism, and autistic phenotypes. Additionally, neonatal kidney calculus, premature closure of the fontanel and pulmonary sequestration were found in the patients. Duplication sizes in these patients range from 0.21 to 14.391 Mb (most were smaller than 1 Mb), and all the duplications included host cell factor C1 (HCFC1), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), and MECP2. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that approximately half of the distal breakpoints were located within the low-copy repeats (LCRs), which may be involved in the recombination. The two fetuses were found to be healthy in the prenatal diagnosis.CONCLUSION: This is the first large cohort of patients with MECP2 duplication syndrome, including a female, reported in China. Interestingly, neonatal kidney calculus, premature closure of the fontanel and pulmonary sequestration were first reported in this syndrome. However, it was difficult to distinguish if these patients represented unique cases or if these phenotypes can be considered as part of the syndrome. The correlation between the infrequent phenotypes and duplications/genes in the duplication region needs further systematic delineation. In conclusion, our study suggested that it is important to emphasize molecular genetic analysis in patients with developmental delay/intellectual disability and recurrent infections and that it is especially important for familial female carriers to accept prenatal diagnosis.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Seed of Torreya nucifera (L.) Siebold & Zucc is used to treat several diseases in Asia. Reports document that T. nucifera has anti-cancer, anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative activities. In spite of numerous findings on its pharmacological effects, the understanding of the molecular inhibitory mechanisms of the plant remains to be studied. Therefore, we aimed to explore in vitro anti-inflammatory mechanisms of ethyl acetate fraction (Tn-EE-BF) prepared from the seed of T. nucifera in LPS-stimulated macrophage inflammatory responses.MATERIALS AND METHODS: For this purpose, we measured nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in LPS-stimulated macrophages. Additionally, using RT-PCR, luciferase reporter gene assay, immunoblotting analysis, and kinase assay, the levels of inflammatory genes, transcription factors, and inflammatory signal-regulatory proteins were investigated. Finally, the constituent of Tn-EE-BF was identified using HPLC.RESULTS: Tn-EE-BF inhibits NO and PGE2 production and also blocks mRNA levels of inducible NO synthase (iNOS), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 in a dose dependent manner. Tn-EE-BF reduces nuclear levels of the transcriptional factors NF-κB (p65) and AP-1 (c-Jun and FRA-1). Surprisingly, we found that Tn-EE-BF inhibits phosphorylation levels of Src and Syk in the NF-κB pathway, as well as, IRAK1 at the protein level, part of the AP-1 pathway. By kinase assay, we confirmed that Src, Syk, and IRAK1 are suppressed directly. HPLC analysis indicates that arctigenin, amentoflavone, and quercetin may be active components with anti-inflammatory activities.CONCLUSION: Tn-EE-BF exhibits anti-inflammatory activities by direct inhibition of Src/Syk/NF-κB and IRAK1/AP-1.
OBJECTIVE: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a debilitating autoimmune disease affecting multiple organs in the body, but therapeutic options are still very limited and often come with adverse effects. Increasing evidence has underlined an important role of the Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR-7)/TLR-9/interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1)/interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF-7) pathway in the development and progression of SLE. Notably, the prolyl isomerase Pin1 is an essential regulator of IRAK-1 in TLR-7/TLR-9 signaling, but its role in SLE is unknown. We undertook this study to determine whether Pin1 is activated and plays any role in the development and treatment of SLE.METHODS: Activation of Pin1 and TLR-7/TLR-9/IRAK-1/IRF-7 signaling was determined in various cell types among peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy controls and SLE patients. The effects of Pin1 and TLR signaling on SLE development were determined using validated Pin1 short hairpin RNA (shRNA), Pin1 genetic knockout, and the small-molecule Pin1 inhibitor all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) in immune cells and in several strains of lupus-prone mice.RESULTS: We found abnormal activation of Pin1 and its downstream targets IRAK-1 and IRF-7 in SLE patients. Furthermore, inhibition of Pin1 using either validated Pin1 shRNA or ATRA blocked TLR-7-induced activation of IRAK-1 and IRF-7 in SLE patient-derived immune cells. Moreover, in multiple lupus-prone animals, both Pin1 knockout and ATRA strikingly attenuated the expression of autoimmunity, including skin lesions, lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, glomerulonephritis, proteinuria, and production of anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies and CD4-CD8- T cells, and also prolonged overall survival in MRL/lpr and B6.lpr mice.CONCLUSION: Pin1 plays a critical role in the development of SLE, and Pin1-targeted therapy offers a promising new strategy for treating SLE.
Deregulation of phenotypic modulation in VSMCs is the initial stage of atherosclerosis, especially in diabetes. Functional deficiency of IRAK4 inhibits the formation of vascular lesions in ApoE-/- mice. Therefore, in this study, we examined the functions of IRAK4 in the regulation of VSMCs differentiation and phenotypic modulation at the levels of transcription and translation in T2D rats. The T2D rat model was generated by feeding a high-fat diet and injecting a low dose of streptozotocin intraperitoneally. VSMCs were isolated from the thoracic aortas of the T2D rats. VSMCs proliferation and migration were measured using water soluble tetrazolium salt-1 assay, 5-ethynyl-29-deoxyuridine staining and migration assay. IRAK4 was knocked down by siRNA and inhibited by an IRAK1/4 inhibitor. The mRNAs and proteins of signal molecules and phenotypic markers were detected by qRT-PCR and western blotting. The results demonstrated that LPS significantly increased viability, cell migration rate and amount of DNA in VSMCs. The IRAK4 inhibitor also reduced LPS-mediated protein expression of myosin heavy chain and nuclear factor κB p65 subunit and increased smooth muscle 22α expression. Moreover, IRAK4 knock-down reduced the LPS-mediated expression of mRNAs for myosin heavy chain, nuclear factor κB p65 subunit, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), but increased the mRNA of smooth muscle 22α in VSMCs. The activation of IRAK4 phenotypically modulated VSMCs from differentiation to dedifferentiation. Inactivation of IRAK4 exerts a protective effect on VSMCs differentiation and inhibits inflammation. IRAK4 could therefore be a target for interventions to prevent and treat the initial phase of atherosclerosis.
MicroRNA-223 plays an important role in the inflammatory response of macrophages. Recent studies have identified that miR-223 was highly expressed in H. pylori infection macrophages, the significance of the elevation, however, has not yet been investigated. In this study, we analyzed the impact of elevated miR-233 to macrophage inflammatory response and possible mechanisms. We found that miR-223 not only could inhibit the expression of inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, IL-8, IL-12 and TNF-α, but also was able to decrease the expression of CD40, CD68, CD80, and CD163. Furthermore, proteins relating to inflammatory signal pathways, such as IRAK-1, NF-κB and MAPK, in H. pylori infected macrophages were down-regulated. Taken together, these results indicated that miR-223 may act as an inflammatory inhibitory factor in H. pylori infected macrophages by IRAK-1, NF-κB or MAPK signal pathways. These findings contribute to the understanding of miR-223 in macrophages inflammatory responses induced by H. pylori.
Erratum in    Int Immunopharmacol. 2019 Sep;74:105786.
PURPOSE: The purpose of the present study is to evaluate the expression of miR-146a gene, its adaptor genes (TRAF6, NF-KB, and IRAK1), and possible changes in the cellular signaling pathway in diabetic hippocampus tissue.METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats are randomly selected and divided into control and diabetic (n=6) groups. Diabetes induced by the single-dose injection of nicotinamide [110 mg/kg, (i.p.)], 15 min before streptozotocin (50 mg/kg; i.p.) in 12-h fasted rats. The rats are kept at the laboratory for two months. After anaesthetization, hippocampus of the rats was removed in order to measure the expression of miR-146a, NFK-B, IRAK1, and TRAF6 genes using real-time PCR and activity of NF-KB as well as amount of apoptosis rate using ELISA.RESULTS: The results indicated a reduction in expression of miR-146a and an increase in expression of IRAK1, NF-KB, and TRAF6 genes in the hippocampus of diabetic rats compared to control. Also it reveals an increase in the activity of NF-KB and apoptosis rate in the hippocampus of diabetic rats.CONCLUSION: Our results report the probability that reduction of miR-146a expression in the negative feedback loop between miR-146a and NF-KB increases NF-kB expression and thus intensifies inflammation and apoptosis in hippocampus.
The formation and release of outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) is a phenomenon of Gram-negative bacteria. This includes Legionella pneumophila (L. pneumophila), a causative agent of severe pneumonia. Upon its transmission into the lung, L. pneumophila primarily infects and replicates within macrophages. Here, we analyzed the influence of L. pneumophila OMVs on macrophages. To this end, differentiated THP-1 cells were incubated with increasing doses of Legionella OMVs, leading to a TLR2-dependent classical activation of macrophages with the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Inhibition of TLR2 and NF-κB signaling reduced the induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, treatment of THP-1 cells with OMVs prior to infection reduced replication of L. pneumophila in THP-1 cells. Blocking of TLR2 activation or heat denaturation of OMVs restored bacterial replication in the first 24 h of infection. With prolonged infection-time, OMV pre-treated macrophages became more permissive for bacterial replication than untreated cells and showed increased numbers of Legionella-containing vacuoles and reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine induction. Additionally, miRNA-146a was found to be transcriptionally induced by OMVs and to facilitate bacterial replication. Accordingly, IRAK-1, one of miRNA-146a's targets, showed prolonged activation-dependent degradation, which rendered THP-1 cells more permissive for Legionella replication. In conclusion, L. pneumophila OMVs are initially potent pro-inflammatory stimulators of macrophages, acting via TLR2, IRAK-1, and NF-κB, while at later time points, OMVs facilitate L. pneumophila replication by miR-146a-dependent IRAK-1 suppression. OMVs might thereby promote spreading of L. pneumophila in the host.
Anthraquinone compounds are one of the abundant polyphenols found in fruits, vegetables, and herbs. However, the in vivo anti-inflammatory activity and molecular mechanisms of anthraquinones have not been fully elucidated. We investigated the activity of anthraquinones using acute inflammatory and nociceptive experimental conditions. Anthraquinone-2-carboxylic acid (9,10-dihydro-9,10-dioxo-2-anthracenecarboxylic acid, AQCA), one of the major anthraquinones identified from Brazilian taheebo, ameliorated various inflammatory and algesic symptoms in EtOH/HCl- and acetylsalicylic acid- (ASA-) induced gastritis, arachidonic acid-induced edema, and acetic acid-induced abdominal writhing without displaying toxic profiles in body and organ weight, gastric irritation, or serum parameters. In addition, AQCA suppressed the expression of inflammatory genes such as cyclooxygenase- (COX-) 2 in stomach tissues and lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) treated RAW264.7 cells. According to reporter gene assay and immunoblotting analyses, AQCA inhibited activation of the nuclear factor- (NF-) κB and activator protein- (AP-) 1 pathways by suppression of upstream signaling involving interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK1), p38, Src, and spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk). Our data strongly suggest that anthraquinones such as AQCA act as potent anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive components in vivo, thus contributing to the immune regulatory role of fruits and herbs.
Preconditioning with ligands of toll-like receptors (TLRs) is a powerful neuroprotective approach whereby a low dose of stimulus confers significant protection against subsequent substantial brain damage by reprogramming the ischemia-activated TLRs signaling. Herein, we aim to explore whether preconditioning with recombinant high-mobility group box 1 (rHMGB1), one of the TLRs ligands, decreases cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). Rats were intracerebroventricularly pretreated with rHMGB1, 1 or 3 days before induction of middle cerebral artery occlusion. Results showed that preconditioning with rHMGB1 1 day, but not 3 days, prior to ischemia dramatically reduced neurological deficits, infarct size, brain swelling, cell apoptosis, and blood-brain barrier permeability. Interleukin-1R-associated kinase-M (IRAK-M), a critical negative regulator of TLRs signaling, was robustly increased in response to brain IRI and was further elevated by rHMGB1 pretreatment, indicating its role associated with the rHMGB1 preconditioning-mediated ischemic tolerance. In vitro and in vivo assays indicated that the induced IRAK-M expression was localized in microglia. In addition, TLR4 specific inhibitor TAK-242 abolished the neuroprotective effects and the induction of IRAK-M offered by rHMGB1 preconditioning. Collectively, our study demonstrates that rHMGB1 preconditioning is neuroprotective during cerebral IRI, which is associated with activated TLR4/IRAK-M signaling in microglia. We found that high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) pretreatment conditioned the brain against subsequent ischemia-reperfusion injury. We propose the following mechanism for HMGB1 preconditioning-mediated ischemic tolerance: through toll-like receptor TLR4, HMGB1 preconditioning magnifies the up-regulation of interleukin-1R-associated kinase-M (IRAK-M) induced by ischemia-reperfusion in microglia, resulting in the decreased phosphorylation of IRAK-1. These findings are helpful in understanding the endogenous mechanisms that counteract ischemic insults.
Streptococcus pneumoniae causes high mortality as a major pneumonia-inducing pathogen. In pneumonia, control of innate immunity is necessary to prevent organ damage. We assessed the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) as regulators in pneumococcal infection of human macrophages. Exposure of primary blood-derived human macrophages with pneumococci resulted in transcriptional changes in several gene clusters and a significant deregulation of 10 microRNAs. Computational network analysis retrieved miRNA-146a as one putatively important regulator of pneumococci-induced host cell activation. Its induction depended on bacterial structural integrity and was completely inhibited by blocking Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR-2) or depleting its mediator MyD88. Furthermore, induction of miRNA-146a release did not require the autocrine feedback of interleukin 1β and tumor necrosis factor α released from infected macrophages, and it repressed the TLR-2 downstream mediators IRAK-1 and TRAF-6, as well as the inflammatory factors cyclooxygenase 2 and interleukin 1β. In summary, pneumococci recognition induces a negative feedback loop, preventing excessive inflammation via miR-146a and potentially other miRNAs.
NFκB has been known to be a necessary transcription factor for the functioning of nearly all cells in a living organism. For its proper functioning, it talks to several other molecular cofactors and interacts with their functionalities resulting in a convoluted cross talking mesh of signalling networks. To completely understand the working of nuclear factor-kappa B protein, one needs to understand the interactions that occur during its lifecycle, with cofactors from various biological processes. This study attempts to elaborate and bridge the gaps on the cross-talk interactions that NFkB is a part of, during its activation pathway. For this Cytoscape and its various plugins (Cytocopter, Allegro, AgilentLitSearch and Styles) are employed. Other related pathways were also collated and analysed for cross-talk between NfκB and interacting molecules. NFκB was found to mainly interact with E3 ubiquitin ligase, NIK, RIP, TCR, IRAK-1, TLR, TRAF-6, NLR and IL-1, details of which are discussed as a part of this study.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the effect of MiR-146a regulator function on the inflammatory response in neuroglia cell (microglia).METHODS: BV2 cells were transfected by MiR-146a mimics,and then stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). MiR-146a expression was measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR). Interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Furthermore, IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) were detected by PCR and Western blotting.RESULTS: Compared to the normal control group, MiR-146a expression was significantly elevated by transfection with MiR-146a mimics (t=5.846, P=0.0021). The expression levels of IRAK1, TRAF6, TNFα, and IL-6 significantly increased in the LPS-stimulated BV2 cells compared to the non-stimulated BV2. The enhancement of MiR-146a resulted in significantly decreased IL-6 (t=5.200, P=0.0003) and TNFα (t=9.812, P<0.0001) secretion. The mRNA (t=5.353, P=0.0007) and protein (t=6.980, P=0.0009) levels of TRAF6, but not IRAK1, also significantly decreased.CONCLUSION: MiR-146a may negatively suppress the inflammatory response of BV2 cells by regulating the expression of IRAF6 molecules in the TLR4 signaling pathway.
(E)-2-(2-chlorostyryl)-3,5,6-trimethylpyrazine (CSTMP), a novel stilbene derivative, have been shown to have cytoprotective effects against H2O2-induced oxidative stress in human endothelial cells. However, little is known about its anti-inflammatory effects in lupus nephritis (LN). In the present study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of CSTMP on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced human renal proximal tubular epithelial cells (hRPTECs) and elucidated its molecular mechanisms. CSTMP significantly attenuated the cytotoxicity and suppressed the release of proinflammatory mediators, including iNOS, COX-2, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8, CCL-2, ICAM-1, IL-1β, and MCP-1 in LPS-induced hRPTECs. In addition, CSTMP decreased the expression of TLR4 and its adapter molecules (MyD88, phosphorylation of TAK1, TRAF6, and IRAK1) and abolished its interactions with these adapter molecules in LPS-induced hRPTECs, resulting in an inhibition of the TLR4/MyD88/TAK1/ TRAF6/IRAK1 complex. Moreover, CSTMP also attenuated phosphorylation of IκB and IKK-α/β, and P50-NF-κB and P65-NF-κB translocation to nucleus in LPS-induced hRPTECs. These findings provided new insights to understand the mode of action of CSTMP in treatment of inflammatory diseases, such as LN.
Endothelial cell senescence is characterized by acquisition of senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), able to promote inflammaging and cancer progression. Emerging evidence suggest that preventing SASP development could help to slow the rate of aging and the progression of age-related diseases, including cancer. Aim of this study was to evaluate whether and how adalimumab, a monoclonal antibody directed against tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), a major SASP component, can prevent the SASP. A three-pronged approach has been adopted to assess the if adalimumab is able to: i) modulate a panel of classic and novel senescence- and SASP-associated markers (interleukin [IL]-6, senescence associated-β-galactosidase, p16/Ink4a, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, endothelial nitric oxide synthase, miR-146a-5p/Irak1 and miR-126-3p/Spred1) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs); ii) reduce the paracrine effects of senescent HUVECs' secretome on MCF-7 breast cancer cells, through wound healing and mammosphere assay; and iii) exert significant decrease of miR-146a-5p and increase of miR-126-3p in circulating angiogenic cells (CACs) from psoriasis patients receiving adalimumab in monotherapy.TNF-α blockade associated with adalimumab induced significant reduction in released IL-6 and significant increase in eNOS and miR-126-3p expression levels in long-term HUVEC cultures.A significant reduction in miR-146a-5p expression levels both in long-term HUVEC cultures and in CACs isolated from psoriasis patients was also evident. Interestingly, conditioned medium from senescent HUVECs treated with adalimumab was less consistent than medium from untreated cells in inducing migration- and mammosphere- promoting effects on MCF-7 cells.Our findings suggest that adalimumab can induce epigenetic modifications in cells undergoing senescence, thus contributing to the attenuation of SASP tumor-promoting effects.
Chronic immune activation/inflammation driven by factors like microbial translocation is a key determinant of human immunodeficiency virus/simian immunodeficiency virus (HIV/SIV) disease progression. Although extensive research on inflammation has focused on studying protein regulators, increasing evidence suggests a critical role for microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulating several aspects of the immune/inflammatory response and immune cell proliferation, differentiation, and activation. To understand their immunoregulatory role, we profiled miRNA expression sequentially in intestinal lamina propria leukocytes (LPLs) of eight macaques before and at 21, 90, and 180 days postinfection (dpi). At 21 dpi, ∼20 and 9 miRNAs were up- and downregulated, respectively. However, at 90 dpi (n = 60) and 180 dpi (n = 44), ≥75% of miRNAs showed decreased expression. Notably, the T-cell activation-associated miR-15b, miR-142-3p, miR-142-5p, and miR-150 expression was significantly downregulated at 90 and 180 dpi. Out of ∼10 downregulated miRNAs predicted to regulate CD69, we confirmed miR-92a to directly target CD69. Interestingly, the SIV-induced miR-190b expression was elevated at all time points. Additionally, elevated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-responsive miR-146b-5p expression at 180 dpi was confirmed in primary intestinal macrophages following LPS treatment in vitro Further, reporter and overexpression assays validated IRAK1 (interleukin-1 receptor 1 kinase) as a direct miR-150 target. Furthermore, IRAK1 protein levels were markedly elevated in intestinal LPLs and epithelium. Finally, blockade of CD8(+) T-cell activation/proliferation with delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ(9)-THC) significantly prevented miR-150 downregulation and IRAK1 upregulation. Our findings suggest that miR-150 downregulation during T-cell activation disrupts the translational control of IRAK1, facilitating persistent gastrointestinal (GI) inflammation. Finally, the ability of Δ(9)-THC to block the miR-150-IRAK1 regulatory cascade highlights the potential of cannabinoids to inhibit persistent inflammation/immune activation in HIV/SIV infection.IMPORTANCE: Persistent GI tract disease/inflammation is a cardinal feature of HIV/SIV infection. Increasing evidence points to a critical role for miRNAs in controlling several aspects of the immune/inflammatory response. Here, we show significant dysregulation of miRNA expression exclusively in the intestinal lamina propria cellular compartment through the course of SIV infection. Specifically, the study identified miRNA signatures associated with key pathogenic events, such as viral replication, T-cell activation, and microbial translocation. The T-cell-enriched miR-150 showed significant downregulation throughout SIV infection and was confirmed to target IRAK1, a critical signal-transducing component of the IL-1 receptor and TLR signaling pathways. Reduced miR-150 expression was associated with markedly elevated IRAK1 expression in the intestines of chronically SIV-infected macaques. Finally, Δ(9)-THC-mediated blockade of CD8(+) T-cell activation in vitro significantly inhibited miR-150 downregulation and IRAK1 upregulation, suggesting its potential for targeted immune modulation in HIV infection.
Celiac disease (CD), a gluten intolerance disorder, was implicated to have 57 genetic susceptibility loci for Europeans but not for culturally and geographically distinct ethnic populations like Saudi Arabian CD patients. Therefore, we genotyped Saudi CD patients and healthy controls for three polymorphisms, that is, Phe196Ser in IRAK1, Trp262Arg in SH2B3, and Met518Thr in MMEL1 genes. Single locus analysis identified that carriers of the 518 Thr/Thr (MMEL1) genotype conferred a 1.6-fold increased disease risk compared to the noncarriers (OR = 2.6; 95% CI: 1.22-5.54; P < 0.01). This significance persisted even under allelic (OR = 1.55; 95% CI: 1.05-2.28; P = 0.02) and additive (OR = 0.35; 95% CI: 0.17-0.71; P = 0.03) genetic models. However, frequencies for Trp262Arg (SH2B3) and Phe196Ser (IRAK1) polymorphisms were not significantly different between patients and controls. The overall best MDR model included Met518Thr and Trp262Arg polymorphisms, with a maximal testing accuracy of 64.1% and a maximal cross-validation consistency of 10 out of 10 (P = 0.0156). Allelic distribution of the 518 Thr/Thr polymorphism in MMEL1 primarily suggests its independent and synergistic contribution towards CD susceptibility among Saudi patients. Lack of significant association of IRAK and SH2B3 gene polymorphisms in Saudi patients but their association in European groups suggests the genetic heterogeneity of CD.
Mutations in the transcriptional regulator Mecp2 cause the severe X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder Rett syndrome (RTT). In this study, we investigate genes that function downstream of MeCP2 in cerebral cortex circuitry, and identify upregulation of Irak1, a central component of the NF-κB pathway. We show that overexpression of Irak1 mimics the reduced dendritic complexity of Mecp2-null cortical callosal projection neurons (CPN), and that NF-κB signalling is upregulated in the cortex with Mecp2 loss-of-function. Strikingly, we find that genetically reducing NF-κB signalling in Mecp2-null mice not only ameliorates CPN dendritic complexity but also substantially extends their normally shortened lifespan, indicating broader roles for NF-κB signalling in RTT pathogenesis. These results provide new insight into both the fundamental neurobiology of RTT, and potential therapeutic strategies via NF-κB pathway modulation.
IFN regulatory factors (IRFs) help to shape the immune response to pathogens by imparting signaling specificity to individual TLRs. We recently demonstrated that IRF6 provides specificity to TLR2 signaling in oral epithelial cells. TLR2 plays an important role in eliciting inflammation to Porphyromonas gingivalis, a keystone pathogen in periodontitis. Therefore, we investigated a role for IRF6 in mediating the inflammatory cytokine response of oral epithelial cells to P. gingivalis. IRF6 expression was strongly upregulated when human oral epithelial cells were challenged with P. gingivalis. Moreover, gene silencing and gene promoter experiments indicated that IRF6 acts downstream of IL-1R-associated kinase 1 to stimulate the expression of the IL-1 family cytokine IL-36γ in response to P. gingivalis. IRF6 and IL-1R-associated kinase 1 also regulated the stimulation of IL-36γ expression by a TLR2 agonist. IL-36γ was shown to elicit inflammatory responses by human monocyte-derived dendritic cells and macrophages, including the expression of the neutrophil chemokines IL-8 and CXCL1, as well as the Th17 chemokine CCL20. IL-36γ similarly stimulated their expression by human oral epithelial cells. Significantly, the Th17 cytokine IL-17 not only stimulated the expression of important regulators of neutrophil recruitment and survival by oral epithelial cells, but IL-17 also stimulated them to express IL-36γ. Thus, our findings suggest that IRF6 is likely to promote inflammation to P. gingivalis through its regulation of IL-36γ.
BACKGROUND: Interleukin (IL)-36 (IL-36α, IL-36β, and IL-36γ) is a recently reported member of the IL-1 cytokine family. In this study, we investigated IL-36 expression in the inflamed mucosa of patients with inflammatory bowel disease and characterized the proinflammatory actions of IL-36 cytokines in human colonic epithelial cells.METHODS: IL-36 mRNA expression was evaluated using real-time PCR. IL-36 protein expression was analyzed using immunoblotting and immunohistochemical technique. Intracellular signaling pathways were evaluated by immunoblotting and by specific siRNA-transfected cells.RESULTS: The mRNA expression of IL-36α and IL-36γ, but not of IL-36β, was enhanced in the inflamed mucosa of patients with inflammatory bowel disease, in particular, in ulcerative colitis. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that T cells, monocytes, and plasma cells are the source of IL-36α and IL-36γ in colonic mucosa. DNA microarray analysis indicated that IL-36α induces the mRNA expression of CXC chemokines and acute phase proteins in intestinal epithelial cell line, HT-29 cells. IL-36α and IL-36γ dose-dependently and time-dependently induced the mRNA and protein expression of CXC chemokines (CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL3 etc.) in HT-29 and Widr cells. Stimulation with IL-36α and IL-36γ assembled MyD88 adaptor proteins (MyD88, TRAF6, IRAK1, and TAK1) into a complex and induced the activation of NF-κB and AP-1 and also the phosphorylation of MAPKs. MAPK inhibitors and siRNAs specific for NF-κB and c-Jun AP-1 significantly reduced IL-36-induced CXC chemokine expression.CONCLUSIONS: IL-36α and IL-36γ may play a proinflammatory role in the pathophysiology of inflammatory bowel disease through induction of CXC chemokines and acute phase proteins.
Stroke induces new myelinating oligodendrocytes that are involved in ischemic brain repair. Molecular mechanisms that regulate oligodendrogenesis have not been fully investigated. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA molecules that post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression. MiR-146a has been reported to regulate immune response, but the role of miR-146a in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) remains unknown. Adult Wistar rats were subjected to the right middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). In situ hybridization analysis with LNA probes against miR-146a revealed that stroke considerably increased miR-146a density in the corpus callosum and subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle of the ischemic hemisphere. In vitro, overexpression of miR-146a in neural progenitor cells (NPCs) significantly increased their differentiation into O4+ OPCs. Overexpression of miR-146a in primary OPCs increased their expression of myelin proteins, whereas attenuation of endogenous miR-146a suppressed generation of myelin proteins. MiR-146a also inversely regulated its target gene-IRAK1 expression in OPCs. Attenuation of IRAK1 in OPCs substantially increased myelin proteins and decreased OPC apoptosis. Collectively, our data suggest that miR-146a may mediate stroke-induced oligodendrogenesis.
Comment in    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2016 Apr;12(4):198-200.
Intervertebral disc (IVD) disease, the most common cause of disc failure and low back pain, is characterized by age-related changes in the adult disc. In this study we aimed to analyze the potential of thalidomide for the treatment of IVD disease, through identifying and explaining its anti-inflammatory and anti-catabolic activity in both in vitro IVD cell culture and in vivo animal model. Inflammatory response was induced by IL-1β, then the activity and expression of inflammatory mediators and pathways were assessed in the presence or absence of thalidomide. The p38 inhibitor SB203580 was also used to investigate the involvement of the MAPK pathway in the observed effects. Moreover the analgesic properties of thalidomide were analyzed by the von Frey filament test in Sprague-Dawley rats. Our results indicated that thalidomide significantly inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and matrix metalloproteinases in vitro, as well as radiculopathic pain in vivo, most probably by modulation of the activity of IRAK-1 and its downstream effectors p38, JNK and NF-κB. Our current study strongly supports the potential of thalidomide for the treatment of pain and inflammation in degenerative disc disease.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activates Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) through the TIRAP-MyD88 dependent and TRAM-TRIF dependent signaling pathways, respectively. However, the underlying relevance between two signaling pathways remains largely elusive. Here, we investigated the role of the Golgi-Associated plant Pathogenesis-Related protein (GAPR-1) in type I interferon (IFN) signaling pathway in response to TLR4. We found that TIRAP-MyD88 dependent kinase IRAK1 phosphorylated GAPR-1 at Serine 58 site. The phosphorylation of GAPR-1 promoted its interaction with TRAM-TRIF dependent inhibitor TMED7, and impaired TMED7-mediated disruption of the TRAM-TRIF complex to trigger IFN-β and the IL10 secretion. Collectively, our study identified a previously unrecognized role for GAPR-1 to control a unifying TLR4 signaling complex and to regulate type I IFN signaling activation. Understanding the mechanism of GAPR-1 in type I IFN signaling pathway would provide strategies for treatment of infectious diseases.
Effector proteins encoded by Salmonella pathogenicity islands play a key role in promoting bacterial intracellular survival, colonization, and pathogenesis. In this study, we investigated the function of the virulence-associated effector SrfA (SsrAB regulated factor) both in macrophages in vitro and in infected mice in vivo. SrfA was secreted into the cytoplasm during S. Typhimurium infection and disassociated IL-1R-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) from the IRAK-1-Toll interacting protein (Tollip) complex by interacting with Tollip. The released IRAK-1 was phosphorylated and subsequently activated the NF-κB signaling pathway, which enhanced the LPS-induced expression of inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-8, IL-1β, and TNF-α. The coupling of ubiquitin to endoplasmic reticulum degradation aa 183-219 domain of Tollip is the binding region for SrfA, and both the MDaa207-226 and CTaa357-377 regions of SrfA mediate binding to Tollip and NF-κB signaling activation. Deletion of SrfA in S. Typhimurium had no notable effects on its replication but impaired the induction of NF-κB activation in infected macrophages. The mice infected with srfA-deficient bacteria exhibited a decreased inflammatory response and an increased survival rate compared with those infected with wild-type S. Typhimurium. We conclude that SrfA is a novel Salmonella virulence effector that helps modulate host inflammatory responses by promoting NF-κB signaling activation.
BACKGROUND: Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) is a key transcriptional regulator of gene expression in the maintenance and development of the central nervous system. Loss- or gain-function of this gene may contribute to neurodevelopmental disorders. The aim of this study is to delineate the clinical characteristics of MECP2 duplication syndrome and the hereditary mechanism in a Chinese family.CASE PRESENTATION: We identified a Chinese family with three persons carry MECP2 gene duplication: a boy, his mother and his grandmother. The duplication segment which was detected by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) included gene MECP2, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), filamin A (FLNA), and L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM). Furthermore, array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) was performed on the mother, showed that MECP2 containing duplication was 510 Kb (153,113,885-153,624,154), including 16 other genes except MECP2. The boy showed most symptoms of MECP2 duplication syndrome. His mother and maternal grandmother were asymptomatic. Both female carriers had a skewed X chromosome inactivation (XCI), which were 80:20 and 74:26 respectively.CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the second reported Chinese Han family with MECP2-containing duplications. And this patient had recurrent respiratory infections which was different from the first two Chinese-brother cases. MECP2 is the core gene responsible for MECP2 duplication syndrome. XCI may play an important role in modulating the clinical manifestation.
OBJECTIVE: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disorder whose etiology is incompletely understood, but likely involves environmental triggers in genetically susceptible individuals. Using an unbiased genome-wide association (GWA) scan and replication analysis, we sought to identify the genetic loci associated with SLE in a Korean population.METHODS: A total of 1,174 SLE cases and 4,246 population controls from Korea were genotyped and analyzed with a GWA scan to identify single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) significantly associated with SLE, after strict quality control measures were applied. For select variants, replication of SLE risk loci was tested in an independent data set of 1,416 SLE cases and 1,145 population controls from Korea and China.RESULTS: Eleven regions outside the HLA exceeded the genome-wide significance level (P = 5 × 10(-8) ). A novel SNP-SLE association was identified between FCHSD2 and P2RY2, peaking at rs11235667 (P = 1.03 × 10(-8) , odds ratio [OR] 0.59) on a 33-kb haplotype upstream of ATG16L2. In the independent replication data set, the SNP rs11235667 continued to show a significant association with SLE (replication meta-analysis P = 0.001, overall meta-analysis P = 6.67 × 10(-11) ; OR 0.63). Within the HLA region, the SNP-SLE association peaked in the class II region at rs116727542, with multiple independent effects observed in this region. Classic HLA allele imputation analysis identified HLA-DRB1*1501 and HLA-DQB1*0602, each highly correlated with one another, as most strongly associated with SLE. Ten previously established SLE risk loci were replicated: STAT1-STAT4, TNFSF4, TNFAIP3, IKZF1, HIP1, IRF5, BLK, WDFY4, ETS1, and IRAK1-MECP2. Of these loci, previously unreported, independent second risk effects of SNPs in TNFAIP3 and TNFSF4, as well as differences in the association with a putative causal variant in the WDFY4 region, were identified.CONCLUSION: Further studies are needed to identify true SLE risk effects in other loci suggestive of a significant association, and to identify the causal variants in the regions of ATG16L2, FCHSD2, and P2RY2.
Chemokines and chemokine receptors are involved in the resolution or progression of renal diseases. Locally secreted chemokines mediated leukocyte recruitment during the initiation and amplification phase of renal inflammation. However, the regulation of chemokine induction is not fully understood. In this study, we found that IL-1 induced a significant up-regulation of CXC chemokines CXCL1, 2, and 8 at both mRNA and protein levels in human mesangial cells. The induction of chemokines was tolerant, as the pre-treatment of HMC with IL-1 down-regulated the induction of chemokines induced by IL-1 re-stimulation. IL-1 up-regulated the ubiquintin-editing enzyme A20. A20 over-expression down-regulated IL-1-induced up-regulation of chemokines, and A20 down-regulation reversed chemokine inhibition induced by IL-1 pre-treatment, suggested that A20 played important roles in the tolerant production of chemokines. Unexpectedly, A20 over- expression inhibited the activation of ERK, JNK, and P38, but did not inhibit the activation of NF-κB. In addition, both IL-1 treatment and A20 over-expression induced the degradation of IRAK1, an important adaptor for IL-1R1 signaling, and A20 inhibition by RNA interference partly reversed the degradation of IRAK1. Taken together, IL-1-induced A20 negatively regulated chemokine production, suggesting that A20 may be an important target for the prevention and control of kidney inflammation.
Corosolic acid (CA), a triterpenoid compound isolated from Lagerstroemia speciosa L. (Banaba) leaves, exerts anti-inflammatory effects by regulating phosphorylation of interleukin receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-2 via the NF-κB cascade. However, the protective effect of CA against endotoxic shock has not been reported. LPS (200 ng/mL, 30 min) induced phosphorylation of IRAK-1 and treatment with CA (10 μM) significantly attenuated this effect. In addition, CA also reduced protein levels of NLRP3 and ASC which are the main components of the inflammasome in BMDMs. LPS-induced inflammasome assembly through activation of IRAK-1 was down-regulated by CA challenge. Treatment with Bay11-7082, an inhibitor of IκB-α, had no effect on CA-mediated inhibition of IRAK-1 activation, indicating that CA-mediated attenuation of IRAK-1 phosphorylation was independent of NF-κB signaling. These results demonstrate that CA ameliorates acute inflammation in mouse BMDMs and CA may be useful as a pharmacological agent to prevent acute inflammation. [BMB Reports 2016; 49(5): 276-281].
OBJECTIVE: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease with a strong genetic component. We undertook the present work to perform the first genome-wide association study on individuals from the Americas who are enriched for Native American heritage.METHODS: We analyzed 3,710 individuals from the US and 4 countries of Latin America who were diagnosed as having SLE, and healthy controls. Samples were genotyped with HumanOmni1 BeadChip. Data on out-of-study controls genotyped with HumanOmni2.5 were also included. Statistical analyses were performed using SNPtest and SNPGWA. Data were adjusted for genomic control and false discovery rate. Imputation was performed using Impute2 and, for classic HLA alleles, HiBag. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were calculated.RESULTS: The IRF5-TNPO3 region showed the strongest association and largest OR for SLE (rs10488631: genomic control-adjusted P [Pgcadj ] = 2.61 × 10(-29), OR 2.12 [95% CI 1.88-2.39]), followed by HLA class II on the DQA2-DQB1 loci (rs9275572: Pgcadj  = 1.11 × 10(-16), OR 1.62 [95% CI 1.46-1.80] and rs9271366: Pgcadj  = 6.46 × 10(-12), OR 2.06 [95% CI 1.71-2.50]). Other known SLE loci found to be associated in this population were ITGAM, STAT4, TNIP1, NCF2, and IRAK1. We identified a novel locus on 10q24.33 (rs4917385: Pgcadj  = 1.39 × 10(-8)) with an expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) effect (Peqtl  = 8.0 × 10(-37) at USMG5/miR1307), and several new suggestive loci. SLE risk loci previously identified in Europeans and Asians were corroborated. Local ancestry estimation showed that the HLA allele risk contribution is of European ancestral origin. Imputation of HLA alleles suggested that autochthonous Native American haplotypes provide protection against development of SLE.CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that studying admixed populations provides new insights in the delineation of the genetic architecture that underlies autoimmune and complex diseases.
The mechanisms of diabetic renal injury remain unclear. Recent studies have shown that immunological and inflammatory elements play important roles in the initiation and development of diabetic nephropathy (DN). Toll-like receptors (TLRs) comprise a superfamily of innate immune system receptors. The roles and mechanisms of TLRs in the pathogenesis of diabetic renal lesions are mostly unknown. Compared with rodents, miniature pigs are more similar to humans with respect to metabolism, kidney structure, and immune system, and therefore represent an ideal large-animal model for DN mechanistic studies. A diabetes model was established by feeding miniature pigs with high-sugar and high-fat diets. Functional and pathological markers, expression and activation of endogenous TLR ligands [HSP70 (heat shock protein 70) and HMGB1], TLR1 to TLR11 and their downstream signaling pathway molecules (MyD88, IRAK-1, and IRF-3), nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway molecules (IKKβ, IκBα, and NF-κBp65), inflammatory cytokines [IL-6 (interleukin-6), MIP-2, MCP-1, CCL5, and VCAM-1 (vascular cell adhesion molecule-1)], and infiltration of inflammatory cells were systematically evaluated. The expression of HSP70 was significantly increased in diabetic pig kidneys. The expression of MyD88-dependent TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, TLR7, TLR8, and TLR11 and their downstream signaling molecules MyD88 and phospho-IRAK-1 (activated IRAK-1), as well as that of MyD88-independent TLR3 and TLR4 and their downstream signaling molecule phospho-IRF-3 (activated IRF-3), was significantly up-regulated. The expression and activation of NF-κB pathway molecules phospho-IKKβ, phospho-IκBα, NF-κBp65, and phospho-NF-κBp65 were significantly increased. Levels of IL-6, MIP-2, MCP-1, CCL5, VCAM-1, and macrophage marker CD68 were significantly increased in diabetic pig kidneys. These results suggested that the metabolic inflammation activated by TLRs might play an important role in diabetic renal injuries.
Macrophages and dendritic cells exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) convert their lysosomes from small, punctate organelles into a network of tubules. Tubular lysosomes have been implicated in phagosome maturation, retention of fluid phase, and antigen presentation. There is a growing appreciation that lysosomes act as sensors of stress and the metabolic state of the cell through the kinase mTOR. Here we show that LPS stimulates mTOR and that mTOR is required for LPS-induced lysosome tubulation and secretion of major histocompatibility complex II in macrophages and dendritic cells. Specifically, we show that the canonical phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-Akt-mTOR signaling pathway regulates LPS-induced lysosome tubulation independently of IRAK1/4 and TBK. Of note, we find that LPS treatment augmented the levels of membrane-associated Arl8b, a lysosomal GTPase required for tubulation that promotes kinesin-dependent lysosome movement to the cell periphery, in an mTOR-dependent manner. This suggests that mTOR may interface with the Arl8b-kinesin machinery. To further support this notion, we show that mTOR antagonists can block outward movement of lysosomes in cells treated with acetate but have no effect in retrograde movement upon acetate removal. Overall our work provides tantalizing evidence that mTOR plays a role in controlling lysosome morphology and trafficking by modulating microtubule-based motor activity in leukocytes.
Microglia, the major immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS), can be driven to adopt M1 and M2 phenotypes. Recently, the distinct functions of M1 and M2 microglia have been intensively studied. M1-activation microglia are pro-inflammatory and may contribute to the development of several CSN disorders, while M2-activation microglia are anti-inflammatory and may promote tissue reconstruction. TRAM1 is a protein involved in translocation of nascent polypeptides and functions as a sorting adaptor of TLR4. Here, we found that TRAM1 plays an important role in microglia M1 polarization. Our results showed that the expression of TRAM1 is highly induced in LPS/interferon (IFN)-γ-stimulated BV2 cells and primary microglia cells. Flag-TRAM1 transfection, but not Flag-GFP used as a control, significantly enhanced M1 polarization by strongly increasing expression of M1 makers, such as IL-6, IL-1β, iNOS, and so on. Silence of TRAM1 effectively inhibited LPS/IFN-γ-induced expression of M1-related genes in BV2 cells. In addition, TRAM1 was found to cooperate with TLR4 to induce an M1 genetic program in Flag-TRAM1-transfected and LPS/IFN-γ-induced BV2 cells. TRAM1 is essential for LPS/IFN-γ induced expressions of adapter molecule (IRAK1, phosphorylation of TBK1, and IRF3) of TLR4. TRAM1 is also essential for phosphorylation of IκB and P65 and for P65-NF-kB translocation to nucleus. Overall, our findings showed that TRAM1 could promote microglia M1 polarization.
IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK) 1 is an important component of the IL-1R and TLR signaling pathways, which influence Th cell differentiation. In this study, we show that IRAK1 promotes Th17 development by mediating IL-1β-induced upregulation of IL-23R and subsequent STAT3 phosphorylation, thus enabling sustained IL-17 production. Moreover, we show that IRAK1 signaling fosters Th1 differentiation by mediating T-bet induction and counteracts regulatory T cell generation. Cotransfer experiments revealed that Irak1-deficient CD4(+) T cells have a cell-intrinsic defect in generating Th1 and Th17 cells under inflammatory conditions in spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, and colon tissue. Furthermore, IRAK1 expression in T cells was shown to be essential for T cell accumulation in the inflamed intestine and mesenteric lymph nodes. Transcriptome analysis ex vivo revealed that IRAK1 promotes T cell activation and induction of gut-homing molecules in a cell-intrinsic manner. Accordingly, Irak1-deficient T cells failed to upregulate surface expression of α4β7 integrin after transfer into Rag1(-/-) mice, and their ability to induce colitis was greatly impaired. Lack of IRAK1 in recipient mice provided additional protection from colitis. Therefore, IRAK1 plays an important role in intestinal inflammation by mediating T cell activation, differentiation, and accumulation in the gut. Thus, IRAK1 is a promising novel target for therapy of inflammatory bowel diseases.
The chromatin-binding DEK protein was recently reported to promote the growth of HPV+ and HPV- head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs). Relevant cellular and molecular mechanism(s) controlled by DEK in HNSCC remain poorly understood. While DEK is known to regulate specific transcriptional targets, global DEK-dependent gene networks in HNSCC are unknown. To identify DEK transcriptional signatures we performed RNA-Sequencing (RNA-Seq) in HNSCC cell lines that were either proficient or deficient for DEK. Bioinformatic analyses and subsequent validation revealed that IRAK1, a regulator of inflammatory signaling, and IRAK1-dependent regulatory networks were significantly repressed upon DEK knockdown in HNSCC. According to TCGA data, 14% of HNSCC specimens overexpressed IRAK1, thus supporting possible oncogenic functions. Furthermore, genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of IRAK1 in HNSCC cell lines was sufficient to attenuate downstream signaling such as ERK1/2 and to induce HNSCC cell death by apoptosis. Finally, targeting DEK and IRAK1 simultaneously enhanced cell death as compared to targeting either alone. Our findings reveal that IRAK1 promotes cell survival and is an attractive therapeutic target in HNSCC cells. Thus, we propose a model wherein IRAK1 stimulates tumor signaling and phenotypes both independently and in conjunction with DEK.
The activation of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling has an important role in promoting lipid accumulation and pro-inflammatory effects in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), which facilitate atherosclerosis development and progression. Previous studies have demonstrated that excess lipid accumulation in VSMCs is due to an inhibition of the expression of ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1), an important molecular mediator of lipid efflux from VSMCs. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of this process are unclear. The purpose of this study was to disclose the underlying molecular mechanisms of TLR4 signaling in regulating ABCA1 expression. Primary cultured VSMCs were stimulated with 50 μg/ml oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL). We determined that enhancing TLR4 signaling using oxLDL significantly downregulated ABCA1 expression and induced lipid accumulation in VSMCs. However, TLR4 knockout significantly rescued oxLDL-induced ABCA1 downregulation and lipid accumulation. In addition, IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) was involved in the effects of TLR4 signaling on ABCA1 expression and lipid accumulation. Silencing IRAK1 expression using a specific siRNA reversed TLR4-induced ABCA1 downregulation and lipid accumulation in vitro. These results were further confirmed by our in vivo experiments. We determined that enhancing TLR4 signaling by administering a 12-week-long high-fat diet (HFD) to mice significantly increased IRAK1 expression, which downregulated ABCA1 expression and induced lipid accumulation. In addition, TLR4 knockout in vivo reversed the effects of the HFD on IRAK1 and ABCA1 expression, as well as on lipid accumulation. In conclusion, IRAK1 is involved in TLR4-mediated downregulation of ABCA1 expression and lipid accumulation in VSMCs.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the protective effect of PD against lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute lung injury (ALI) and explore its potential mechanism. In vivo, PD and dexamethasone were intraperitoneally administered 1h before LPS stimulation. Then, mice were sacrificed at 6h post-LPS stimulation. Neutrophil number, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were determined, as well as lung wet to dry ratio (W/D) and polymorphonuclear (MPO) activity. The protein expressions of Toll like receptor 4 (TLR4), myeloid differentiating factor 88 (MyD88), IL-1R-associated kinases 1 (IRAK1), IRAK4, inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B kinase (IKK)α, p-IKKα, IKKβ, p-IKKβ, inhibitor of NF-κB (IκBα), p-IκBα and NF-κB in lung tissues were assessed. Besides, we detected the IL-6, IL-1β, IL-8, TNF-α levels and TLR4, MyD88, NF-κB protein expressions in LPS-induced BEAS-2B cells. Consequently, PD significantly inhibited the levels of W/D, MPO, neutrophils number, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β and reversed TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling pathway in lung tissues. In vitro assays, PD effectively negatively mediated the inflammatory cytokines and ameliorated the high expressions of TLR4, MyD88, NF-κB caused by LPS simulation in Human bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells. This study indicated that PD played a protective role in LPS-induced ALI and BEAS-2B cells. The results supported further study of PD as potential candidate for acute lung injury.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2015;6:10054. Yi, Bao [Corrected to Bao, Yi].
OBJECTIVE: Transforming growth factor β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) is a key MAPKKK family protein in interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and Toll-like receptor signaling. This study was undertaken to examine the posttranslational modification of TAK1 and its therapeutic regulation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).METHODS: The effect of TAK1, IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1), and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) inhibition was evaluated in IL-1β-stimulated human RA synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). Western blotting, immunoprecipitation, and 20S proteasome assay were used to study the ubiquitination process in RASFs. The efficacy of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), a potent antiinflammatory molecule, in regulating these processes in RASFs was evaluated. Molecular docking was performed to examine the interaction of EGCG with human TAK1, IRAK-1, and TRAF6. These findings were confirmed using a rat model of adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA).RESULTS: Inhibition of TAK1, but not IRAK-1 or TRAF6, completely abrogated IL-1β-induced IL-6 and IL-8 synthesis in RASFs. EGCG inhibited TAK1 phosphorylation at Thr(184/187) and occupied the C(174) position, an ATP-binding site, to inhibit its kinase activity. EGCG pretreatment also inhibited K(63) -linked autoubiquitination of TRAF6, a posttranslational modification essential for TAK1 autophosphorylation, by forming a stable H bond at the K(124) position on TRAF6. Furthermore, EGCG enhanced proteasome-associated deubiquitinase expression to rescue proteins from proteasomal degradation. Western blot analyses of joint homogenates from rats with AIA showed a significant increase in K(48) -linked polyubiquitination, TAK1 phosphorylation, and TRAF6 expression when compared to naive rats. Administration of EGCG (50 mg/kg/day) for 10 days ameliorated AIA in rats by reducing TAK1 phosphorylation and K(48) -linked polyubiquitination.CONCLUSION: Our findings provide a rationale for targeting TAK1 for the treatment of RA with EGCG.
Infectious complications, sepsis, and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) remain important causes for morbidity and mortality in patients who survive the initial trauma. Increasing evidence suggests that genetic variants, particularly single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), are critical determinants for interindividual differences in both inflammatory responses and clinical outcome in sepsis patients. Although the effect of SNPs on sepsis and MODS has been studied in many populations and diseases, this review aimed to summarize the current knowledge on the effect of SNPs on infectious complication specifically in trauma patients. A review of available literature was performed in PubMed database. The following genes have been studied in populations of trauma patients: CD14, HMGB1, IFNG, IL1A, IL1B, IL1RN, IL4, IL6, IL8, IL10, IL17F, IL18, MBL2, MASP2, FCN2, TLR1, TLR2, TLR4, TLR9, TNF, LTA, GR, MYLK, NLRP3, PRDX6, RAGE, HSPA1B, HSPA1L, HSP90, SERPINE1, IRAK1, IRAK3, VEGFA, LY96, ANGPT2, LBP, MicroRNA, and mtDNA. In this review, we discuss the genes of the Pattern Recognition Receptors, Signal Transducing Adaptor Proteins, and Inflammatory Cytokines of the innate immune system. A number of genetic variations have so far been studied in cohorts of trauma patients. Studies are often unique and numbers sometimes small. No definitive conclusions can be reached at this time about the influence of specific sequence variations on outcome in trauma patients.
BACKGROUND: Interleukin (IL)-36 cytokines are recently reported member of the IL-1 cytokine family. However, there is little information regarding the association between IL-36 cytokines and gut inflammation. In the present study, we investigated the biological activity of IL-36α and IL-36γ using human colonic subepithelial myofibroblasts (SEMFs).METHODS: The mRNA expression and the protein expression of target molecules in SEMFs were evaluated using real-time polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. The intracellular signaling of IL-36 cytokines was analyzed using Western blot analysis and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) specific for MyD88 adaptor proteins (MyD88 and IRAK1) and NF-κB p65.RESULTS: IL-36α and IL-36γ significantly enhanced the secretion of IL-6 and CXC chemokines (CXCL1, CXCL2, and CXCL8) by SEMFs. The combination of IL-36α/γ and IL-17A or of IL-36α/γ and tumor necrosis factor-α showed a synergistic effect on the induction of IL-6 and CXC chemokines. The mRNA expression of proinflammatory mediators induced by IL-36α and/or IL-36γ was significantly suppressed by transfection of siRNA for MyD88 or IRAK1. Both inhibitors of mitogen activated protein kinases and siRNAs specific for NF-κBp65 significantly reduced the expression of IL-6 and CXC chemokines induced by IL-36α and/or IL-36γ.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that IL-36α and IL-36γ contribute to gut inflammation through the induction of proinflammatory mediators.
BACKGROUND: Telocytes (TCs) are suggested as a new type of interstitial cells with specific telopodes. Our previous study evidenced that TCs differed from fibroblasts and stem cells at the aspect of gene expression profiles. The present study aims to search the characters and patterns of chromosome X genes of TC-specific or TC-dominated gene profiles and fingerprints, investigate the network of principle genes, and explore potential functional association.METHODS: We compared gene expression profiles in chromosome X of pulmonary TCs with mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), fibroblasts (Fb), alveolar type II cells (ATII), airway basal cells (ABC), proximal airway cells (PAC), CD8(+) T cells come from bronchial lymph nodes (T-BL), or CD8(+) T cells from lungs (T-L) by global analyses, and selected the genes which were consistently up or down regulated (>1 fold) in TCs compared to other cells as TC-specific genes. The functional and characteristic networks were identified and compared by bioinformatics tools.RESULTS: We selected 31 chromosome X genes as the TC-specific or dominated genes, among which 8 up-regulated (Flna, Msn, Cfp, Col4a5, Mum1l1, Rnf128, Syn1, and Srpx2) and 23 down-regulated (Abcb7, Atf1, Ddx26b, Drp2, Fam122b, Gyk, Irak1, Lamp2, Mecp2, Ndufb11, Ogt, Pdha1, Pola1, Rab9, Rbmx2, Rhox9, Thoc2, Vbp1, Dkc1, Nkrf, Piga, Tmlhe and Tsr2), as compared with other cells.CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggested that gene expressions of chromosome X in TCs are different with those in other cells in the lung tissue. According to the selected TC-specific genes, we infer that pulmonary TCs function as modulators which may enhance cellular growth and migration, resist senescence, protect cells from external stress, regulate immune responses, participate in tissue remodeling and repair, regulate neural function, and promote vessel formation.
OBJECTIVE: Chorioamnionitis contributes to premature birth and associated postnatal morbidity. The genetic basis of altered immune responses underlying placental inflammation (PI) remains understudied. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship among TLR signaling pathway polymorphisms and different patterns of PI.METHODS: Prospective cohort study in infants involving cord blood collection and placental examination for PI. One hundred and fifty-nine infants enrolled in study out of which 28 were term (eight with PI) and 131 preterm (47 with PI). DNA from blood was genotyped for SNPs in TLR2, 4, 5, 9, NFKBI, NFKBIA, TIRAP, and IRAK1 genes using multiplexed single base extension assay.RESULTS: While there were no differences in BW, GA, gender, race, and SPL among infants with or without PI, there was a higher incidence of PPROM, maternal smoking, drug use, and clinical chorioamnionitis among infants with PI. Out of nine TLR variants, only CT and/or TT genotypes of the TLR9 variant (rs352140) were significantly associated (p = 0.004) with any PI and maternal pattern of inflammation (p = 0.012) both by univariate analysis and logistic regression.CONCLUSIONS: The presence of a variant T allele in a common SNP (rs352140) in the TLR9 gene whose product recognizes bacterial DNA is associated with increased PI.
The TLR2/NF-κB signaling pathway plays an important role in the pathomechanism of ulcerative colitis (UC); acupuncture and moxibustion can improve the damage in colonic tissues of UC, but the regulatory mechanism remains unknown. This study observed the effect of moxibustion on the TLR2/NF-κB signaling pathway at the Tianshu (ST25) and Qihai (CV6) acupuncture points in the UC rat. The result shows that TLR2, IRAK1, and IKK-b mRNA and protein levels in the colonic mucosa were significantly higher in the UC rats than in the control rats. Herb-partitioned moxibustion reduced the expression of TLR2, IRAK1, and IKK-b mRNA and proteins in the UC rats. Similarly, the expression of NF-κB was significantly increased and IFN-β and IL-10 were significantly decreased in the colonic mucosa of UC rats, but herb-partitioned moxibustion reduced the expression of IFN-β and upregulating the expression of IFN-β and IL-10 significantly. It indicates that herb-partitioned moxibustion can inhibit the expression of multiple signaling molecules of the TLR2 pathway effectively, and it may modulate the excessive local immune response by inhibiting TLR2 signaling, thereby promoting the repair of damaged colonic mucosa.
Erratum in    Cell Mol Immunol. 2019 Dec;16(12):946.
Organic trace mineral (ORG) supplementation to dairy cows in substitution of sulfate (INO) sources has been associated with improvement in immune function during stressful states such as the peripartal period. However, the effect of supplemental ORG during pregnancy on the neonatal calf is unknown. Therefore, our aim was to investigate the effects of ORG supplementation during late pregnancy on the immune system and growth of the neonatal calf. Of specific interest was the evaluation of inflammation-related microRNA (miRNA) and target gene expression in blood neutrophils as indicators of possible nutritional programming. Forty multiparous cows were supplemented for 30d prepartum with 40 mg/kg of Zn, 20 mg/kg of Mn, 5 mg/kg of Cu, and 1mg/kg of Co from either organic (ORG) or sulfate (INO) sources (total diet contained supplemental 75 mg/kg of Zn, 65 mg/kg of Mn, 11 mg/kg of Cu, and 1 mg/kg of Co, and additional Zn, Mn, and Co provided by sulfates), and a subset of calves (n=8/treatment) was used for blood immunometabolic marker and polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMNL) gene and miRNA expression analyses. Samples were collected at birth (before colostrum feeding), 1d (24 h after colostrum intake), and 7 and 21d of age. Data were analyzed as a factorial design with the PROC MIXED procedure of SAS. No differences were detected in BW, but maternal ORG tended to increase calf withers height. Calves from INO-fed cows had greater concentrations of blood glucose, GOT, paraoxonase, myeloperoxidase, and reactive oxygen metabolites. Antioxidant capacity also was greater in INO calves. The PMNL expression of toll-like receptor pathway genes indicated a pro-inflammatory state in INO calves, with greater expression of the inflammatory mediators MYD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, NFKB, and NFKBIA. The lower expression of miR-155 and miR-125b in ORG calves indicated the potential for maternal organic trace minerals in regulating the PMNL inflammatory response at least via alterations in mRNA and miRNA expression. Overall, these results indicate that maternal nutrition with organic trace minerals could alter the neonatal innate immune response at least in part via changes in gene and miRNA expression. Further studies involving inflammatory challenges during the neonatal period should be performed to determine the functional benefit of maternal organic trace minerals on the neonatal immune response.
BACKGROUND: The emerging role of TLR2/4 as immuno-metabolic receptors points to key involvement of TLR/IL-1R/MyD88 pathway in obesity/type-2 diabetes (T2D). IL1R-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 is a critical adapter protein (serine/threonine kinase) of this signaling pathway. The changes in adipose tissue expression of IRAK-1 in obesity/T2D remain unclear. We determined modulations in IRAK-1 gene/protein expression in the subcutaneous adipose tissues from lean, overweight and obese individuals with or without T2D.METHODS: A total of 49 non-diabetic (22 obese, 19 overweight and 8 lean) and 42 T2D (31 obese, 9 overweight and 2 lean) adipose tissue samples were obtained by abdominal subcutaneous fat pad biopsy and IRAK-1 expression was determined using real-time RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and confocal microscopy. IRAK-1 mRNA expression was compared with adipose tissue proinflammatory mediators (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-18), macrophage markers (CD68, CD11c, CD163), and plasma markers (CCL-5, C-reactive protein, adiponectin, and triglycerides). The data were analyzed using t test, Pearson's correlation, and multiple stepwise linear regression test.RESULTS: In non-diabetics, IRAK-1 gene expression was elevated in obese (P = 0.01) and overweight (P = 0.04) as compared with lean individuals and this increase correlated with body mass index (r = 0.45; P = 0.001) and fat percentage (r = 0.36; P = 0.01). In diabetics, IRAK-1 mRNA expression was also higher in obese as compared with lean subjects (P = 0.012). As also shown by immunohistochemistry/confocal microscopy in non-diabetics and by immunohistochemistry in diabetics, IRAK-1 protein expression was higher in obese than overweight and lean adipose tissues. IRAK-1 gene expression correlated positively/significantly with mRNAs of TNF-α (r = 0.46; P = 0.0008), IL-6 (r = 0.30; P = 0.03) and IL-18 (r = 0.31; P = 0.028) in non-diabetics; and only with TNF-α (r = 0.32; P = 0.03) in diabetics. IRAK-1 expression also correlated positively/significantly with CD68 (r = 0.32; P = 0.02), CD11c (r = 0.30; P = 0.03), and CD163 (r = 0.43; P = 0.001) in non-diabetics; and only with CD163 (r = 0.34; P = 0.02) in diabetics. IRAK-1 mRNA levels also correlated with plasma markers including CCL-5 (r = 0.39; P = 0.02), C-reactive protein (r = 0.48; P = 0.005), adiponectin (r = -0.36; P = 0.04), and triglycerides (r = 0.40; P = 0.02) in non-diabetics; and only with triglycerides (r = -0.36; P = 0.04) in diabetics. IRAK-1 expression related with TLR2 (r = 0.39; P = 0.007) and MyD88 (r = 0.36; P = 0.01) in non-diabetics; and MyD88 (r = 0.52; P = 0.0003) in diabetics.CONCLUSIONS: The elevated IRAK-1 expression in obese adipose tissue showed consensus with local/circulatory inflammatory signatures and represented as a tissue marker for metabolic inflammation. The data have clinical significance as interventions causing IRAK-1 suppression may alleviate meta-inflammation in obesity/T2D.
AIM: Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and IRAK4 play essential roles in the induction of inflammatory gene products. We aimed to investigate the effect of the inhibition of IRAK1 and IRAK4 kinase activities on neointimal formation in rats with carotid artery balloon injuries using the IRAK1/4 inhibitor N-(2-Morpholinylethyl)-2-(3-nitrobenzoylamido)-benzimidazole, a cell-permeable benzimidazole compound.METHODS: Wistar rats and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) isolated from the thoracic aortas were used. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-mediated nuclear factor kappa B (NFκB) signaling pathway was revealed by microarrays analysis. In addition, the differential expression of the TLR4 pathway genes, including TLR4, IRAK1, IκBα, and interleukin-1β (IL-1β), was confirmed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemical staining, elastic-van Gieson and Masson staining, 5-ethynyl-2´-deoxyuridine staining, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, transwell migration assay and western blotting were also contributed for relevant detection.RESULTS: The expression of TLR4 protein gradually increased at days 1, 3, 7, and 21 after balloon injury compared with the uninjured group. The dual inhibition of IRAK1 and IRAK4 attenuated neointimal formation and fibrotic remodeling after injury in vivo and suppressed VSMC proliferation and migration in vitro. The production of mediators such as tumor necrosis factor-α and IL-1β in injured arteries were also reduced by the inhibition of IRAK1 and IRAK4. The expression of NFκB p65- and F4/80-positive cells in inhibitor rats were fewer than those in control rats at day 7, while IRAK1 expression was markedly higher at day 3 in inhibitor rats. Furthermore, western blotting analysis revealed that the IRAK1/4 inhibitor suppressed the IRAK1 and IRAK4 kinase activities and the activation of the TLR4-mediated NFκB pathway in vivo and in vitro.CONCLUSIONS: This study suggested that IRAK1/4 could serve as a potential therapeutic target to suppress neointimal formation in carotid arteries after balloon injury through the TLR4/NFκB signaling pathway.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: As documented in the Chinese Materia Medica Grand Dictionary (), a herbal formula (RL) consisting of Rosae Multiflorae Fructus (multiflora rose hips) and Lonicerae Japonicae Flos (Japanese honeysuckle flowers) has traditionally been used in treating inflammatory disorders. RL was previously reported to inhibit the expression of various inflammatory mediators regulated by NF-κB and MAPKs that are components of the TLR4 signalling pathways.AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to provide further justification for clinical application of RL in treating inflammatory disorders by further delineating the involvement of the TLR4 signalling cascades in the effects of RL on inflammatory mediators.MATERIALS AND METHODS: RL consisting of Rosae Multiflorae Fructus and Lonicerae Japonicae Flos (in 5:3 ratio) was extracted using absolute ethanol. We investigated the effect of RL on the production of cytokines and chemokines that are regulated by three key transcription factors of the TLR4 signalling pathways AP-1, NF-κB and IRF3 in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells using the multiplex biometric immunoassay. Phosphorylation of AP-1, NF-κB, IRF3, IκB-α, IKKα/β, Akt, TAK1, TBK1, IRAK-1 and IRAK-4 were examined in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells and THP-1 cells using Western blotting. Nuclear localizations of AP-1, NF-κB and IRF3 were also examined using Western blotting.RESULTS: RL reduced the secretion of various pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines regulated by transcription factors AP-1, NF-κB and IRF3. Phosphorylation and nuclear protein levels of these transcription factors were decreased by RL treatment. Moreover, RL inhibited the activation/phosphorylation of IκB-α, IKKα/β, TAK1, TBK1 and IRAK-1.CONCLUSIONS: Suppression of the IRAK-1/TAK1 and TBK1/IRF3 signalling pathways was associated with the effect of RL on inflammatory mediators in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 and THP-1 cells. This provides further pharmacological basis for the clinical application of RL in the treatment of inflammatory disorders.
Recent studies on splenic marginal zone lymphoma identified distinct mutations in genes belonging to the B-cell receptor and Toll-like receptor signaling pathways, thus pointing to their potential implication in the biology of the disease. However, limited data is available regarding the exact role of TLRs. We aimed at characterizing the expression pattern of TLRs in splenic marginal zone lymphoma cells and their functional impact on the activation, proliferation and viability of malignant cells in vitro. Cells expressed significant levels of TLR1, TLR6, TLR7, TLR8, TLR9 and TLR10 mRNA; TLR2 and TLR4 showed a low, variable pattern of expression among patients whereas TLR3 and TLR5 mRNAs were undetectable; mRNA specific for TLR signaling molecules and adapters was also expressed. At the protein level, TLR1, TLR6, TLR7, TLR9 and TLR10 were detected. Stimulation of TLR1/2, TLR2/6 and TLR9 with their respective ligands triggered the activation of IRAK kinases, MAPK and NF-κB signaling pathways, and the induction of CD86 and CD25 activation molecules, although in a heterogeneous manner among different patient samples. TLR-induced activation and cell viability were also inhibited by a specific IRAK1/4 inhibitor, thus strongly supporting the specific role of TLR signaling in these processes. Furthermore, TLR2/6 and TLR9 stimulation also significantly increased cell proliferation. In conclusion, we demonstrate that splenic marginal zone lymphoma cells are equipped with functional TLR and signaling molecules and that the stimulation of TLR1/2, TLR2/6 and TLR9 may play a role in regulating disease pathobiology, likely promoting the expansion of the neoplastic clone.
Traditional Chinese medicine Curcuma Zedoary ( E'Zhu) contains essential oil, curcuminoid and other effective constituents, with such pharmacological actions as anti-platelet aggregation, lowing blood lipid, anti-oxidation and anti-inflammation. In recent years, studies have showed that certain extracts and chemical components of E'Zhu could mitigate myocardial cell mitochondria injury and protect vascular endothelium by enhancing heme oxygenase-1 activity, inhibit nuclear factor NF-kappaB, target genes interleukin-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1), tumor necrosis factor receptor-6 (TRAF-6) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), reduce inflammatory infiltration, and inhibit growth factor-induced smooth muscle cells (SMCs) proliferation and migration by impacting oxidation of cellular phosphatases. Due to its different functions in vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells, E'Zhu has been applied in drug-eluting stents, with a potential effect in preventing in-stent restenosis and thrombogenesis. In this paper, studies on pharmacological effects and mechanisms of extracts and main chemical constituents from E'Zhu in preventing vascular restenosis were summarized.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are known to detect a defined spectrum of microbial structures. However, the knowledge about the specificity of teleost Tlr factors for distinct pathogens is limited so far. We measured baseline expression profiles of 18 tlr genes and associated signaling factors in four immune-relevant tissues of rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss. Intraperitoneal injection of a lethal dose of Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. salmonicida induced highly increased levels of cytokine mRNAs during a 72-hour postinfection (hpi) period. In contrast, only the fish-specific tlr22a2 and the downstream factor irak1 featured clearly increased transcript levels, while the mRNA concentrations of many other tlr genes decreased. Flow cytometry quantified cell trafficking after infection indicating a dramatic influx of myeloid cells into the peritoneum and a belated low level immigration of lymphoid cells. T and B lymphocytes were differentiated with RT-qPCR revealing that B lymphocytes emigrated from and T lymphocytes immigrated into head kidney. In conclusion, no specific TLR can be singled out as a dominant receptor for A. salmonicida. The recruitment of cellular factors of innate immunity rather than induced expression of pathogen receptors is hence of key importance for mounting a first immune defense against invading A. salmonicida.
BACKGROUND: Ex vivo lung perfusion (EVLP) enables assessment and rehabilitation of marginal donor lungs before transplantation. We previously demonstrated that adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) agonism attenuates lung ischemia-reperfusion injury. The current study utilizes a novel murine EVLP model to test the hypothesis that A2AR agonist enhances EVLP-mediated rehabilitation of donation after circulatory death (DCD) lungs.METHODS: Mice underwent euthanasia and 60 minutes warm ischemia, and lungs were flushed with Perfadex and underwent cold static preservation (CSP, 60 minutes). Three groups were studied: no EVLP (CSP), EVLP with Steen solution for 60 minutes (EVLP), and EVLP with Steen solution supplemented with ATL1223, a selective A2AR agonist (EVLP + ATL1223). Lung function, wet/dry weight, cytokines and neutrophil numbers were measured. Microarrays were performed using the Affymetrix GeneChip Mouse Genome 430A 2.0 Array.RESULTS: Ex vivo lung perfusion significantly improved lung function versus CSP, which was further, significantly improved by EVLP + ATL1223. Lung edema, cytokines, and neutrophil counts were reduced after EVLP and further, significantly reduced after EVLP + ATL1223. Gene array analysis revealed differential expression of 1594 genes after EVLP, which comprise canonical pathways involved in inflammation and innate immunity including IL-1, IL-8, IL-6, and IL-17 signaling. Several pathways were uniquely regulated by EVLP + ATL1223 including the downregulation of genes involved in IL-1 signaling, such as ADCY9, ECSIT, IRAK1, MAPK12, and TOLLIP.CONCLUSIONS: Ex vivo lung perfusion modulates proinflammatory genes and reduces pulmonary dysfunction, edema, and inflammation in DCD lungs, which are further reduced by A2AR agonism. This murine EVLP model provides a novel platform to study rehabilitative mechanisms of DCD lungs.
AIMS: Protein kinases are potential therapeutic targets for heart failure, but most studies of cardiac protein kinases derive from other systems, an approach that fails to account for specific kinases expressed in the heart and the contractile cardiomyocytes. We aimed to define the cardiomyocyte kinome (i.e. the protein kinases expressed in cardiomyocytes) and identify kinases with altered expression in human failing hearts.METHODS AND RESULTS: Expression profiling (Affymetrix microarrays) detected >400 protein kinase mRNAs in rat neonatal ventricular myocytes (NVMs) and/or adult ventricular myocytes (AVMs), 32 and 93 of which were significantly up-regulated or down-regulated (greater than two-fold), respectively, in AVMs. Data for AGC family members were validated by qPCR. Proteomics analysis identified >180 cardiomyocyte protein kinases, with high relative expression of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades and other known cardiomyocyte kinases (e.g. CAMKs, cAMP-dependent protein kinase). Other kinases are poorly investigated (e.g. Slk, Stk24, Oxsr1). Expression of Akt1/2/3, BRaf, ERK1/2, Map2k1, Map3k8, Map4k4, MST1/3, p38-MAPK, PKCδ, Pkn2, Ripk1/2, Tnni3k, and Zak was confirmed by immunoblotting. Relative to total protein, Map3k8 and Tnni3k were up-regulated in AVMs vs. NVMs. Microarray data for human hearts demonstrated variation in kinome expression that may influence responses to kinase inhibitor therapies. Furthermore, some kinases were up-regulated (e.g. NRK, JAK2, STK38L) or down-regulated (e.g. MAP2K1, IRAK1, STK40) in human failing hearts.CONCLUSION: This characterization of the spectrum of kinases expressed in cardiomyocytes and the heart (cardiomyocyte and cardiac kinomes) identified novel kinases, some of which are differentially expressed in failing human hearts and could serve as potential therapeutic targets.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) function as key regulators in immune responses and cancer development. In the contexts of infection with oncogenic viruses, miRNAs are engaged in viral persistence, latency establishment and maintenance, and oncogenesis. In this review, we summarize the potential roles and mechanisms of viral and cellular miRNAs in the host-pathogen interactions during infection with selected tumor viruses and HIV, which include (i) repressing viral replication and facilitating latency establishment by targeting viral transcripts, (ii) evading innate and adaptive immune responses via toll-like receptors, RIG-I-like receptors, T-cell receptor, and B-cell receptor pathways by targeting signaling molecules such as TRAF6, IRAK1, IKKε, and MyD88, as well as downstream targets including regulatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor α, interferon γ, interleukin 10, and transforming growth factor β, (iii) antagonizing intrinsic and extrinsic apoptosis pathways by targeting pro-apoptotic or anti-apoptotic gene transcripts such as the Bcl-2 family and caspase-3, (iv) modulating cell proliferation and survival through regulation of the Wnt, PI3K/Akt, Erk/MAPK, and Jak/STAT signaling pathways, as well as the signaling pathways triggered by viral oncoproteins such as Epstein-Barr Virus LMP1, by targeting Wnt-inhibiting factor 1, SHIP, pTEN, and SOCSs, and (v) regulating cell cycle progression by targeting cell cycle inhibitors such as p21/WAF1 and p27/KIP1. Further elucidation of the interaction between miRNAs and these key biological events will facilitate our understanding of the pathogenesis of viral latency and oncogenesis and may lead to the identification of miRNAs as novel targets for developing new therapeutic or preventive interventions.
In this study, we explored the potential roles of miRNA-133 in regulating TLR pathways in the sea cucumber Apostichopus japonicus. Target screening of RNA-Seq data successfully identified interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (AjIRAK-1) as a putative target of miR-133. This result was further validated by negative expression profiles in Vibrio splendidus-challenged coelomocytes and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-exposed cell cultures. HEK-293T cells transfected with a dual-luciferase reporter fused to the 3'UTR of wild-type or mutant AjIRAK-1 exhibited a 52.9% reduction in luciferase activity (p < 0.01) compared to controls. Co-infection with a miR-133 mimics or a specific siRNA targeting AjIRAK-1 significantly repressed the mRNA and protein expression levels of AjIRAK-1 and its downstream molecules, such as AjTRAF6 and Ajp105, in primary coelomocytes. In contrast, a miR-133 inhibitor significantly increased the expression of these TLR pathway members. The injection of miR-133 agomir or AjIRAK-1 siRNA into sea cucumbers not only decreased the expression of AjIRAK-1 and its downstream molecules but also significantly increased V. splendidus coelomocyte phagocytosis. All of the present data provide direct evidence that miR-133 is involved in TLR cascade modulation through AjIRAK-1 targeting to promote V. splendidus coelomocyte phagocytosis in these non-model invertebrates.
OBJECTIVE: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common mood disorder associated with several psychophysiological changes like disturbances of sleep, appetite, or sexual desire, and it affects the patients' life seriously. We aimed to explore a genetic method to investigate the mechanism of MDD.METHODS: The mRNA expression profile (GSE53987) of MDD was downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus database, including 105 samples of three brain regions in post-mortem tissue suffered from MDD and unaffected controls. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in MDD were identified using the Limma package in R. Gene Ontology functions and Kyoto Enrichment of Genes and Genomes pathways of the selected DEGs were enriched using Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery. Protein-protein interactive network of DEGs was constructed using the Cytoscape software.RESULTS: Totally, 241 DEGs in MDD-hip group, 218 DEGs in MDD-pfc group, and 327 DEGs in MDD-str group were identified. Also, different kinds of biological processes of DEGs in each group were enriched. Besides, glycan biosynthesis of DEGs in MDD-str group, RIG-I-like receptor signaling and pyrimidine metabolism of DEGs in the MDD-hip group were enriched, respectively. Moreover, several DEGs like PTK2, TDG and CETN2 in MDD-str group, DCT, AR and GNRHR in MDD-pfc group, and AKT1 and IRAK1 in MDD-hip group were selected from PPI network.CONCLUSION: Our data suggests that the brain striatum tissue may be greatly affected by MDD, and DEGs like PTK2, GALNT2 and GALNT2 in striatum, AR in prefrontal cortex and IRAK1 and IL12A in hippocampus may provide novel therapeutic basis for MDD treatment.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is the most prevalent form of adult focal onset epilepsy often associated with drug-resistant seizures. Numerous studies suggest that neuroinflammatory processes are pathologic hallmarks of both experimental and human epilepsy. In particular, the interleukin (IL)-1β/IL-1 receptor type 1 (R1) axis is activated in epileptogenic tissue, where it contributes significantly to the generation and recurrence of seizures in animal models. In this study, we investigated whether IL-1β affects the GABA-evoked currents (I(GABA)) in TLE tissue from humans. Given the limited availability of fresh human brain specimens, we used the "microtransplantation" method of injecting Xenopus oocytes with membranes from surgically resected hippocampal and cortical tissue from 21 patients with TLE and hippocampal sclerosis (HS), hippocampal tissue from five patients with TLE without HS, and autoptic and surgical brain specimens from 15 controls without epilepsy. We report the novel finding that pathophysiological concentrations of IL-1β decreased the I(GABA) amplitude by up to 30% in specimens from patients with TLE with or without HS, but not in control tissues. This effect was reproduced by patch-clamp recordings on neurons in entorhinal cortex slices from rats with chronic epilepsy, and was not observed in control slices. In TLE specimens from humans, the IL-1β effect was mediated by IL-1R1 and PKC. We also showed that IL-1R1 and IRAK1, the proximal kinase mediating the IL-1R1 signaling, are both up-regulated in the TLE compared with control specimens, thus supporting the idea that the IL-1β/IL-R1 axis is activated in human epilepsy. Our findings suggest a novel mechanism possibly underlying the ictogenic action of IL-1β, thus suggesting that this cytokine contributes to seizure generation in human TLE by reducing GABA-mediated neurotransmission.
Intervertebral disc (IVD) disease, a most common cause of disc failure and low back pain, is characterized by age-related changes in the adult disc. In this study we aimed to investigate the potential of Tanshinone IIA (TSA) for the treatment of IVD disease, through exploring its anti-inflammatory and anti-catabolic activities in both in vitro IVD cell culture and in vivo animal models. After the inflammatory response was induced in IVD cells by IL-1β, the activity and expression of inflammatory mediators, and potentially involved pathways were investigated in the presence or absence of TSA. The p38-MAPK inhibitor, SB239063, was also used to investigate the involvement of the MAPK signaling pathway in the observed effects. Meanwhile, the analgesic properties of TSA were analyzed by the von Frey filament test in Sprague-Dawley rats. Our results indicated that TSA significantly inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and matrix metalloproteinases in vitro, as well as radiculopathic pain in vivo, probably by modulation of the activity of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) and its downstream effectors p38, JNK and NF-κB. Our current study strongly demonstrates the potential of TSA for the treatment of inflammation and followed pain in degenerative disc disease.
Premature ovarian failure (POF), an ovarian disorder of multifactorial origin, is defined as the occurrence of amenorrhea, hypergonadotropism and hypoestrogenism in females <40 years old. Apoptosis of ovarian granulosa cells is important in POF and understanding the regulatory mechanism underlying ovarian granulosa cell apoptosis may be beneficial for the management of POF. Increasing evidence suggests that microRNAs (miRs) have a regulatory function in oocyte maturation and ovarian follicular development. In the present study, the expression of miR‑146a in plasma and ovarian granulosa cells obtained from patients with POF, its effect on the apoptosis of ovarian granulosa cells and the possible underlying mechanisms were examined. The present study demonstrated that compared with the control groups, the expression of miR‑146a in the plasma and in ovarian granulosa cells of patients with POF was significantly upregulated. Furthermore, it was found that miR‑146a simultaneously targeted interleukin‑1 receptor‑associated kinase (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor‑associated factor 6 (TRAF6), which regulated the activity of nuclear factor‑κB and IκBα. In addition, the results demonstrated that inhibition of the caspase cascade by caspase inhibitors attenuated the effects of miR‑146a on ovarian granulosa cell apoptosis. Taken together, these results suggest that miR‑146a has an important promoting effect on the apoptosis of granulosa cells by targeting IRAK1 and TRAF6 via the caspase cascade pathway. These results may be useful for the management of POF.
INTRODUCTION: Infection of pathogenic microorganisms is an important reason for autoimmune diseases (ADs). Interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK1) is a key mediator in infection immunity, while the gene of IRAK1 is recognized as a risk gene in ADs. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in IRAK1 (rs3027898, rs1059702, rs1059703) are considered to be associated with ADs risk. However, the results are conflicting. We conducted this study to get more precise estimations.METHODOLOGY: PubMed, OvidSP, and CNKI databases (published prior to August 2014) were searched, and data was extracted from eligible studies. The procedure of statistical analysis was performed using STATA 12.0 software. A random effect model or fixed effect model was chosen based on the between-study heterogeneities.RESULTS: Of the studies involved, 11 studies included 10,705 cases (9,865 controls) for rs3027898, 9 studies included 15,005 cases (14,997 controls) for rs1059702, and 7 studies included 8,115 cases (6,815 controls) for rs1059703. Overall, the results showed that there were significant associations with ADs risk in three genetic models for rs3027898 and in four genetic models for rs1059702, but in neither model for rs1059703. Moreover, in stratified analyses, different extents of associations were found in some different genetic models for all three SNPs.CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrated that these three SNPs (rs3027898, rs1059702, rs1059703) in IRAK1 were associated with ADs risk.
Intramacrophage protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani, causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis, escapes Toll-like receptor (TLR) dependent early host immune response by inducing the deubiquitinating enzyme A20, which is sustained up to 6 h postinfection only. Therefore, Leishmania must apply other means to deactivate late host responses. Here, we elucidated the role of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase M (IRAK-M), a negative regulator of TLR signaling, in downregulating macrophage proinflammatory response during late hours of in vitro infection. Our data reveal a sharp decline in IRAK1 and IRAK4 phosphorylation at 24 h postinfection along with markedly reduced association of IRAK1-TNF receptor associated factor 6, which is mandatory for TLR activation. In contrast, IRAK-M was induced after A20 levels decreased and reached a maximum at 24 h postinfection. IRAK-M induction coincided with increased stimulation of TGF-β, a hallmark cytokine of visceral infection. TGF-β-dependent signaling-mediated induction of SMAD family of proteins, 2, 3, and 4 plays important roles in transcriptional upregulation of IRAK-M. In infected macrophages, siRNA-mediated silencing of IRAK-M displayed enhanced IRAK1 and IRAK4 phosphorylation with a concomitant increase in downstream NF-κB activity and reduced parasite survival. Taken together, the results suggest that IRAK-M may be targeted by L. donovani to inhibit TLR-mediated proinflammatory response late during in vitro infection.
Infection in neonates, particular the neonatal sepsis continues to be a global problem with significant morbidity and mortality. The diagnosis of neonatal sepsis is complicated by nonspecific clinical symptomatology, a high-false negative rate, and a delay in obtaining blood culture results. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently been used as finger prints for sepsis, and have been validated to be potential sepsis biomarker recently. In the present study, we investigated the level of several miRNAs, such as miR-15a, miR-16, miR-15b, and miR-223, which have been identified as a biomarker in adult sepsis, in neonatal sepsis patients, and then we analyzed the association of miR-15a/16 with the patient prognosis. Results demonstrated that the level of miR-15a/16 was up-regulated in neonatal sepsis patients than in normal neonatal subjects; however, no statistical difference was disclosed in the miR-15b and miR-223 level between two groups. And the ROC analysis indicated the miR-15a and miR-16 were potent fingerprints for diagnosing neonate sepsis. In order to explore the miR-15a/16 function on the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory pathway, the mice macrophage RAW264.7 cells were transiently transfected with miR-15a/16 mimics. And it was demonstrated that the miR-15a/16 transfection down-regulated the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) transcription level with a statistical difference in the LPS treated cells. And the suppression capability of miR-15a/16 on the expression of TLR-4 and IRAK-1 were evaluated by western blot. Thus, in present study, we identified miR-15a/16 as potential biomarker for the diagnosis and prognosis of neonatal sepsis, and the upregulated miR-15a/16 downregulated the LPS-induced inflammatory pathway.
The mechanism of perturbed immune function in patients with T2DM is poorly understood. Recent studies imply a role for ER stress in linking immune-system alterations and metabolism. Here, we investigated whether ER stress markers and its downstream effector signals are altered in patients with type 2 diabetes along with proinflammatory augmentation. In our study, gene and protein expression of ER stress markers (GRP-78, PERK, IRE1α, ATF6, XBP-1 and CHOP) was elevated significantly (P < 0.05) in PBMCs from T2DM patients compared with control subjects. The mRNA expression of both the proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α and IL-6) and oxidative stress markers (p22(phox), TXNIP, and TRPC-6; P < 0.05) was also increased in PBMCs from patients with T2DM. SOCS3 mRNA expression was reduced significantly (P < 0.05) in diabetes patients. mRNA expression of most of the ER stress markers from PBMCs correlated significantly and positively with poor glycemic control, dyslipidemia, IR, and inflammatory and oxidative stress markers. Chronic ER stress in PBMCs from patients with T2DM was evident from the increased caspase-3 activity (P < 0.01), which is an executioner of apoptosis. Along with an impairment of miR-146a levels, the downstream targets of miR-146a, viz., IRAK1 and TRAF6 mRNA levels, were also elevated significantly (P < 0.01) in patients with T2DM. There was an inverse relationship among miR-146a levels and ER stress markers, inflammatory markers, and glycemic control. We demonstrate evidence of increased ER stress markers with impaired miR-146a levels and increased proinflammatory signals in patients with type 2 diabetes.
The immune system of H. sapiens has innate signaling pathways that arose in ancestral species. This is exemplified by the discovery of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway using free-living model organisms such as Drosophila melanogaster. The TLR pathway is ubiquitous and controls sensitivity to pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) in eukaryotes. There is, however, a marked absence of this pathway from the plathyhelminthes, with the exception of the Pellino protein family, which is present in a number of species from this phylum. Helminth Pellino proteins are conserved having high similarity, both at the sequence and predicted structural protein level, with that of human Pellino proteins. Pellino from a model helminth, Schistosoma mansoni Pellino (SmPellino), was shown to bind and poly-ubiquitinate human IRAK-1, displaying E3 ligase activity consistent with its human counterparts. When transfected into human cells SmPellino is functional, interacting with signaling proteins and modulating mammalian signaling pathways. Strict conservation of a protein family in species lacking its niche signalling pathway is rare and provides a platform to examine the ancestral functions of Pellino proteins that may translate into novel mechanisms of immune regulation in humans.
TLR2 promotes NLRP3 inflammasome activation via an early MyD88-IRAK1-dependent pathway that provides a priming signal (signal 1) necessary for activation of the inflammasome by a second potassium-depleting signal (signal 2). Here we show that TLR3 binding to dsRNA promotes post-translational inflammasome activation through intermediate and late TRIF/RIPK1/FADD-dependent pathways. Both pathways require the scaffolding but not the catalytic function of caspase-8 or RIPK1. Only the late pathway requires kinase competent RIPK3 and MLKL function. Mechanistically, FADD/caspase-8 scaffolding function provides a post-translational signal 1 in the intermediate pathway, whereas in the late pathway it helps the oligomerization of RIPK3, which together with MLKL provides both signal 1 and 2 for inflammasome assembly. Cytoplasmic dsRNA activates NLRP3 independent of TRIF, RIPK1, RIPK3 or mitochondrial DRP1, but requires FADD/caspase-8 in wildtype macrophages to remove RIPK3 inhibition. Our study provides a comprehensive analysis of pathways that lead to NLRP3 inflammasome activation in response to dsRNA.
In this study, the full-length complementary (c)DNA of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 gene (irak1) was cloned from common carp Cyprinus carpio. The complete open reading frame of irak1 contained 2109 bp encoding a protein of 702 amino acid residues that comprised a death domain, a ProST region, a serine-threonine-specific protein kinase catalytic domain and a C-terminal domain. The amino-acid sequence of C. carpio Irak1 protein shared sequence homology with grass carp Ctenopharyngodon idellus (84.5%). The phylogenetic tree of IRAKs separated the polypeptides into four clades, comprising IRAK1s, IRAK2s, IRAK3s and IRAK4s. Cyprinus carpio Irak1 fell into the cluster with previously reported IRAK1s including teleost Irak1s. The irak1 gene was highly expressed in gills, followed by brain, skin, hindgut, buccal epithelium, spleen, foregut, head kidney and liver, and was expressed at lowest levels in gonad and muscle. The irak1 messenger (m)RNA expression was up-regulated in liver, spleen, head kidney, foregut, hindgut, gills and skin after stimulation with Vibrio anguillarum and poly(I:C), and significantly high up-regulated expression was observed in liver and spleen. These results implied that irak1 might participate in antibacterial and antiviral innate immunity. These findings gave the indications that irak1 may participate in antibacterial and antiviral immunity.
Infectious spleen and kidney necrosis virus (ISKNV) has caused significant loss in the Mandarin fish (Siniperca chuatsi) aquaculture industry. Vaccination is an important measure to prevent fatal ISKNV infection. In this study, the ORF086 gene encoding an early protein helicase of ISKNV was cloned into the prokaryotic pET32a (+) and eukaryotic pcDNA3.1 (+) expression vectors and designated as pET086 and pcDNA086, respectively. A recombinant 36 kDa protein was detected in Escherichia coli BL21 (harboring pET086) after isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) induction. Polyclonal antibodies against the purified ORF086 protein were raised in rabbits. The antibody reaction and the pcDNA086 expression in muscle tissues of vaccinated fish were confirmed using Western blot analysis. The protective efficacy of ORF086 was also investigated. The cumulative mortality rates of Mandarin fish were significantly different between immune and control groups (P < 0.05) after ISKNV challenge. The relative percentage survival (RPS) values of the recombinant ORF086 protein emulsified with ISA763A adjuvant and pcDNA086 added with QCDC adjuvant were 73% and 63%, respectively. Transcriptional analysis of non-specific and specific immune related genes revealed that the expression levels of IRF-7, IRAK1, Mx, Viperin, and IgM were strongly up-regulated in the vaccinated groups post-immunization. In particular, the expression levels in the QCDC + pcDNA086 group was higher than those in the control groups (P < 0.05). These results indicated that the early protein ORF086 could be an effective antigen candidate for controlling ISKNV disease in Mandarin fish.
Polarization of the monocytes and macrophages toward the M1 and M2 states is important for hosts' defense against the pathogens. Moreover, it plays a crucial role to resolve the overwhelming inflammatory responses that can be harmful to the host. Polarization of macrophages/monocytes can be induced by pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). PAMP-mediated monocyte/macrophage polarization is important during the infection, as pathogen can suppress host immune system by altering the polarization status of the macrophages/monocytes. OmpU, an outer membrane porin protein of Vibrio cholerae, possesses the ability to induce pro-inflammatory responses in monocytes/macrophages. It is also able to down-regulate the LPS-mediated activation of the monocytes/macrophages. Such observation leads us to believe that OmpU may induce a state that can be called as M1/M2-intermediate state. In the present study, we evaluated a set of M1 and M2 markers in RAW 264.7 murine macrophage cell line, and THP-1 human monocytic cell line, in response to the purified OmpU protein. We observed that OmpU, as a PAMP, induced M1-polarization by activating the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway. OmpU induced formation of TLR1/TLR2-heterodimers. OmpU-mediated TLR-activation led to the MyD88 recruitment to the TLR1/TLR2 complex. MyD88, in turn, recruited IRAK1. Ultimately, OmpU-mediated signaling led to the activation and subsequent nuclear translocation of the NFκB p65 subunit. We also observed that blocking of the TLR1, TLR2, IRAK1, and NFκB affected OmpU-mediated production of M1-associated pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNFα and IL-6.
During senescence, cells express molecules called senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), including growth factors, proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and proteases. The SASP induces a chronic low-grade inflammation adjacent to cells and tissues, leading to degenerative diseases. The anti-inflammatory activity of flavonoids was investigated on SASP expression in senescent fibroblasts. Effects of flavonoids on SASP expression such as IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, GM-CSF, CXCL1, MCP-2 and MMP-3 and signaling molecules were examined in bleomycin-induced senescent BJ cells. In vivo activity of apigenin on SASP suppression was identified in the kidney of aged rats. Among the five naturally-occurring flavonoids initially tested, apigenin and kaempferol strongly inhibited the expression of SASP. These flavonoids inhibited NF-κB p65 activity via the IRAK1/IκBα signaling pathway and expression of IκBζ. Blocking IκBζ expression especially reduced the expression of SASP. A structure-activity relationship study using some synthetic flavones demonstrated that hydroxyl substitutions at C-2',3',4',5 and 7 were important in inhibiting SASP production. Finally, these results were verified by results showing that the oral administration of apigenin significantly reduced elevated levels of SASP and IκBζ mRNA in the kidneys of aged rats. This study is the first to show that certain flavonoids are inhibitors of SASP production, partially related to NF-κB p65 and IκBζ signaling pathway, and may effectively protect or alleviate chronic low-grade inflammation in degenerative diseases such as cardiovascular diseases and late-stage cancer.
Endotoxin tolerance reprograms Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4-mediated macrophage responses by attenuating induction of proinflammatory cytokines while retaining expression of anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial mediators. We previously demonstrated deficient TLR4-induced activation of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) 4, IRAK1, and TANK-binding kinase (TBK) 1 as critical hallmarks of endotoxin tolerance, but mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we examined the role of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Pellino-1 in endotoxin tolerance and TLR signaling. LPS stimulation increased Pellino-1 mRNA and protein expression in macrophages from mice injected with saline and in medium-pretreated human monocytes, THP-1, and MonoMac-6 cells, whereas endotoxin tolerization abrogated LPS inducibility of Pellino-1. Overexpression of Pellino-1 in 293/TLR2 and 293/TLR4/MD2 cells enhanced TLR2- and TLR4-induced nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and expression of IL-8 mRNA, whereas Pellino-1 knockdown reduced these responses. Pellino-1 ablation in THP-1 cells impaired induction of myeloid differentiation primary response protein (MyD88), and Toll-IL-1R domain-containing adapter inducing IFN-β (TRIF)-dependent cytokine genes in response to TLR4 and TLR2 agonists and heat-killed Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus, whereas only weakly affecting phagocytosis of heat-killed bacteria. Co-expressed Pellino-1 potentiated NF-κB activation driven by transfected MyD88, TRIF, IRAK1, TBK1, TGF-β-activated kinase (TAK) 1, and TNFR-associated factor 6, whereas not affecting p65-induced responses. Mechanistically, Pellino-1 increased LPS-driven K63-linked polyubiquitination of IRAK1, TBK1, TAK1, and phosphorylation of TBK1 and IFN regulatory factor 3. These results reveal a novel mechanism by which endotoxin tolerance re-programs TLR4 signaling via suppression of Pellino-1, a positive regulator of MyD88- and TRIF-dependent signaling that promotes K63-linked polyubiquitination of IRAK1, TBK1, and TAK1.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines play a key role in many models of hepatic damage. In addition, asparagine (Asn) plays an important role in immune function. We aimed to investigate whether Asn could attenuate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced liver damage. Forty-eight castrated barrows were allotted to four groups including: (1) non-challenged control; (2) LPS-challenged control; (3) LPS + 0.5% Asn; and (4) LPS + 1.0% Asn. After 19 d feeding with control, 0.5 or 1.0% Asn diets, pigs were injected with LPS or saline. Blood and liver samples were obtained at 4 h (early stage) and 24 h (late stage) post-injection. Asn alleviated liver injury, indicated by reduced serum aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase activities linearly and quadratically; it increased claudin-1 protein expression linearly and quadratically at 24 h, and less severe liver morphological impairment at 4 or 24 h. In addition, Asn decreased mRNA expression of TNF-α and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) linearly and quadratically at 4 h; it increased TNF-α mRNA expression, and HSP70 protein expression linearly and quadratically at 24 h. Moreover, Asn increased inducible NO synthase activity linearly and quadratically. Finally, Asn down-regulated the mRNA expression of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signalling molecules (TLR4, IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF-α receptor-associated factor 6), nucleotide-binding oligomerisation domain protein (NOD) signalling molecules (NOD1, NOD2 and their adaptor molecule receptor-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinase 2 (RIPK2)), and NF-κB p65 linearly or quadratically at 4 h. Oppositely, Asn up-regulated mRNA expressions of TLR4 and NOD signalling molecules (TLR4, myeloid differentiation factor 88, IRAK1, NOD2 and RIPK2), and their negative regulators (radioprotective 105, single Ig IL-1R-related molecule, Erbb2 interacting protein and centaurin β1) linearly or quadratically at 24 h. These results indicate that, in early and late stages of LPS challenge, Asn improves liver integrity and exerts different regulatory effects on mRNA expression of TLR4 and NOD signalling molecules.
BACKGROUND: Severe invasive pneumococcal disease (SIPD) has high morbidity and mortality, conditioned by pneumococcus and host factors, such as Toll-like receptors and their Toll-IL1R common signaling pathway. The objectives of this study are (1) to correlate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) involved in some Toll-IL1R signaling pathway proteins (IRAK1, IRAK4, IRAKM and MyD88) with SIPD by comparing patients versus healthy controls. (2) To determine whether these SNPs influence SIPD outcome.METHODS: Case-control prospective observational study: 60 pediatric patients with IPD and systemic inflammatory response syndrome, and 120 healthy volunteers. Well-known immunodeficiencies were excluded.INDEPENDENT VARIABLES: SNPs genotypes and alleles. Other variables: demographic, previous infections, and clinical, analytical and microbiological evolution data.RESULTS: We have detected significant disequilibrium of SNPs frequencies between SIPD patients and controls in rs1059701-CC (IRAK1; P = 0.0067), rs4251513-CC (IRAK4; P < 0.0001), rs1461567-T (IRAK4; P = 0.0158) and rs6853-AA (MyD88; P < 0.0001). SIPD patients showed significant association between: leukocytosis > 15,000/mmc and rs1059702-nonTT (IRAK1; P = 0.0460), pleuropneumonia and rs1624395-G (IRAKM; P = 0.0147), and rs1370128-C (IRAKM; P = 0.0055), sequelae, and rs4251513-nonGG (IRAK4; P = 0.0055), death and rs6853-nonAA (P = 0.0054) and rs6853-G (P = 0.0065; MyD88).CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to show an association between SNPs in IRAK1, IRAK4 and MyD88, and the presence of SIPD. Our data showed that some SNPs may lead to a higher risk of developing SIPD while other are related with the outcome in SIPD patients. Following PIRO score (predisposition, insult, response, organ dysfunction), identifying SNPs predisposing to infectious diseases, such as SIPD might help stratify patients with severe infectious diseases and design specific treatments.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) represents expansion of cells arrested at specific stages of thymic development with the underlying genetic abnormality often determining the stage of maturation arrest. Although their outcome has been improved with current therapy, survival rates remain only around 50% at 5 years and patients may therefore benefit from specific targeted therapy. Interleukin receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is a ubiquitously expressed serine/threonine kinase that mediates signaling downstream to Toll-like (TLR) and Interleukin-1 Receptors (IL1R). Our data demonstrated that IRAK1 is overexpressed in all subtypes of T-ALL, compared to normal human thymic subpopulations, and is functional in T-ALL cell lines. Genetic knock-down of IRAK1 led to apoptosis, cell cycle disruption, diminished proliferation and reversal of corticosteroid resistance in T-ALL cell lines. However, pharmacological inhibition of IRAK1 using a small molecule inhibitor (IRAK1/4-Inh) only partially reproduced the results of the genetic knock-down. Altogether, our data suggest that IRAK1 is a candidate therapeutic target in T-ALL and highlight the requirement of next generation IRAK1 inhibitors.
BACKGROUND: Intracellular pathogen resistance 1 (Ipr1) has been found in macrophages and plays a pivotal role in fighting against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. This study is designed to evaluate the effect of Iprl on the expression of macrophage genes related to the anti-infection of Mtb. Design or methods: In the experimental and control groups, the macrophages were infected with Mycobacterium H37Ra, and then the related immune genes between two groups were detected using microarray assay. Real-time quantitative PCR was applied to detect the differences in the expression of three up-regulated genes detected by microarray assay and to verify the reliability of microarray assay.RESULTS: The expression of Iprl up-regulated 11 genes related to macrophage anti-immunity involved TLRs signaling pathway including TLR2 and TLR4, Irak1, Traf7, Ifngr1 and Tnfrsfla. No significant difference was found in terms of the molecular expression involved in regulation of the adaptive immune response, such as IL-1 and IL-12. The results of real-time PCR were consistent with the findings of microarray assay.CONCLUSIONS: The expression of Iprl gene probably promotes macrophage activity and enhances the ability of macrophages to fight against Mtb infection. The underlying mechanism may be achieved by up-regulating the expression levels of innate immunity genes, especially TLR2/TLR4 and signal transduction molecules, which is determined using microarray assay. All these findings offer the basis for subsequent study of the mechanisms of Ipr1 gene in host innate immunity against Mtb infection.
Cardiac dysfunction is a major consequence of sepsis/septic shock and contributes to the high mortality of sepsis. Innate and inflammatory responses mediated by TLRs play a critical role in sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction. MicroRNA-146 (miR-146) was first identified as a negative regulator in innate immune and inflammatory responses induced by LPS. This study examined whether miR-146a will have a protective effect on sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction. Lentivirus-expressing miR-146a (LmiR-146a) or lentivirus-expressing scrambled miR (LmiR-control) was delivered into the myocardium via the right carotid artery. Seven days after transfection, mice were subjected to cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). Untransfected mice were also subjected to CLP-induced sepsis. Cardiac function was examined by echocardiography before and 6 h after CLP. In vitro studies showed that increased miR-146a levels suppress LPS-induced IκBα phosphorylation and inflammatory cytokine production in both H9C2 cardiomyocytes and J774 macrophages. In vivo transfection of LmiR-146a attenuated sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction. The values for percent ejection fraction and percent fractional shortening in LmiR-146a-transfected CLP mice were significantly greater than in untransfected CLP control. LmiR-146a transfection prevented sepsis-induced NF-κB activity, suppressed IRAK and TRAF6 expression in the myocardium, and attenuated sepsis-induced inflammatory cytokine production in both plasma and peritoneal fluid. In addition, LmiR-146a transfection decreased sepsis-induced infiltration of neutrophils and macrophages into the myocardium. LmiR-146a can also transfect macrophages in the periphery. We conclude that miR-146a attenuates sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction by preventing NF-κB activation, inflammatory cell infiltration, and inflammatory cytokine production via targeting of IRAK and TRAF6 in both cardiomyocytes and inflammatory monocytic cells.
Among those developing tuberculosis (TB) after exposure to Mycobacterium tuberculosis, approximately 70% are males. Host genetic variation, particularly immune-related genes on the X chromosome, may contribute to sex-specific differences in TB incidences. To study whether X-linked gene variation is associated with sex-specific presentation of pulmonary TB (pTB), three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the TLR8, CD40LG and IRAK1 genes on the X chromosome were genotyped in 923 patients and 1033 healthy individuals of the Han Chinese population. Frequencies of the variants were analyzed independently as well as in their combinations. CD40LG rs3092923 and its combined effects with the other two SNPs were associated with an increased risk of pTB only in males. In males, the rs3092923 genotype C/(-) conferred relative protection (odds ratio (OR): 0.52, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.35-0.78, Pcorr.=0.0045) and the combined effects of three SNPs increased gradually as the number of risk alleles increased (OR: 2.58, 2.83 and 2.96 for one, two and three risk alleles, respectively). For the remaining SNPs, significance was obtained only for the AA genotype of IRAK1 rs3027898 in the combined and female-only analysis. Our results indicate a role of a CD40LG variant and its combined effects with distinct TLR8 and IRAK1 variants in susceptibility to pTB in males.
Invasion by infectious pathogens can elicit a range of cytokine responses from host cells. These cytokines provide the initial host defense mechanism. In this report, we demonstrate that TNF-α, a pro-inflammatory cytokine, can be induced by hepatitis C virus (HCV) in its host cells in a biphasic manner. The initial induction of TNF-α by HCV was prompt and could be blocked by the antibody directed against the HCV E2 envelope protein and by chemicals that inhibit endocytosis, indicating the specificity of endocytic uptake of HCV in this induction. Further studies indicated that the induction of TNF-α was dependent on toll-like receptors 7 and 8 (TLR7/8) but not on other intracellular pattern recognition receptors. Consistently, siRNA-mediated gene silencing of the downstream effectors in the TLR7/8 signaling pathway including MyD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1 and p65 NF-κB suppressed the expression of TNF-α. The role of p65 NF-κB in the induction of TNF-α via transcriptional up-regulation was further confirmed by the chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. TNF-α induced by HCV could activate its own receptor TNFR1 on hepatocytes to suppress HCV replication. This suppressive effect of TNF-α on HCV was due to its role in supporting interferon signaling, as the suppression of its expression led to the loss of IFNAR2 and impaired interferon signaling and the induction of interferon-stimulated genes. In conclusion, our results indicate that hepatocytes can sense HCV infection via TLR7/8 to induce the expression of TNF-α, which inhibits HCV replication via an autocrine mechanism to support interferon signaling.
The anti-apoptotic protein kinase CK2 increasingly becomes an attractive target in cancer research with great therapeutic potential. Here, we have performed an in vitro screening of the Diversity Set III of the DTP program from the NCI/NIH, comprising 1600 compounds. We have identified 1,3-Dichloro-6-[(E)-((4-methoxyphenyl)imino)methyl] dibenzo(b,d) furan-2,7-diol (referred to as D11) to be a potent and selective inhibitor of protein kinase CK2. The D11 compound was tested against 354 eukaryotic protein kinases. By setting the threshold for inhibition to <2% remaining kinase activity, only DYRK1B, IRAK1 and PIM3 were inhibited to an extent as the tetrameric CK2 holoenzyme and its catalytic subunits α and α'. The IC50 values for the CK2α and CK2α' were on average 1-2 nM in comparison to the DYRK1B, IRAK1 and PIM3 kinases, which ranged from 18 to 49 nM. Cell permeability and efficacy of D11 were tested with cells in culture. In MIA PaCa-2 cells (human pancreatic carcinoma cell line), the phosphorylation of the CK2 biomarker CDC37 at S13 was almost completely inhibited in the presence of D11. This was observed both under normoxia and hypoxia. In the case of the human non-small cell lung carcinoma cell line, H1299, increasing amounts of D11 led to an inhibition of S380/T382/383 phosphorylation in PTEN, another biomarker for CK2 activity.
Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) encodes multiple microRNAs (miRNAs) whose functions are just beginning to be uncovered. Using in silico approaches, we identified the Toll-Like Receptor (TLR) innate immunity pathway as a possible target of HCMV miRNAs. Luciferase reporter assay screens further identified TLR2 as a target of HCMV miR-UL112-3p. TLR2 plays a major role in innate immune response by detecting both bacterial and viral ligands, including HCMV envelope proteins gB and gH. TLR2 activates a variety of signal transduction routes including the NFκB pathway. Furthermore, TLR2 plays an important role in controlling CMV infection both in humans and in mice. Immunoblot analysis of cells transfected with a miR-UL112-3p mimic revealed that endogenous TLR2 is down-regulated by miR-UL112-3p with similar efficiency as a TLR2-targeting siRNA (siTLR2). We next found that TLR2 protein level decreases at late times during HCMV infection and correlates with miR-UL112-3p accumulation in fibroblasts and monocytic THP1 cells. Confirming direct miR-UL112-3p targeting, down-regulation of endogenous TLR2 was not observed in cells infected with HCMV mutants deficient in miR-UL112-3p expression, but transfection of miR-UL112-3p in these cells restored TLR2 down-regulation. Using a NFκB reporter cell line, we found that miR-UL112-3p transfection significantly inhibited NFκB-dependent luciferase activity with similar efficiency as siTLR2. Consistent with this observation, miR-UL112-3p transfection significantly reduced the expression of multiple cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8) upon stimulation with a TLR2 agonist. Finally, miR-UL112-3p transfection significantly inhibited the TLR2-induced post-translational activation of IRAK1, a kinase located in the upstream section of the TLR2/NFκB signaling axis. To our knowledge, this is the first identified mechanism of TLR2 modulation by HCMV and is the first report of functional targeting of TLR2 by a viral miRNA. These results provide a novel mechanism through which a HCMV miRNA regulates the innate immune response by down-regulating TLR-2 expression.
BACKGROUND: Microglia reactivity is a hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases. We have previously identified activated microglia/macrophage whey acidic protein (AMWAP) as a counter-regulator of pro-inflammatory response. Here, we studied its mechanisms of action with a focus on toll-like receptor (TLR) and nuclear factor κB (NFκB) signaling.METHODS: Recombinant AMWAP was produced in Escherichia coli and HEK293 EBNA cells and purified by affinity chromatography. AMWAP uptake was identified by fluorescent labeling, and pro-inflammatory microglia markers were measured by qRT-PCR after stimulation with TLR ligands. NFκB pathway proteins were assessed by immunocytochemistry, Western blot, and immunoprecipitation. A 20S proteasome activity assay was used to investigate the anti-peptidase activity of AMWAP. Microglial neurotoxicity was estimated by nitrite measurement and quantification of caspase 3/7 levels in 661W photoreceptors cultured in the presence of microglia-conditioned medium. Microglial proliferation was investigated using flow cytometry, and their phagocytosis was monitored by the uptake of 661W photoreceptor debris.RESULTS: AMWAP was secreted from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglia and recombinant AMWAP reduced gene transcription of IL6, iNOS, CCL2, CASP11, and TNFα in BV-2 microglia treated with LPS as TLR4 ligand. This effect was replicated with murine embryonic stem cell-derived microglia (ESdM) and primary brain microglia. AMWAP also diminished pro-inflammatory markers in microglia activated with the TLR2 ligand zymosan but had no effects on IL6, iNOS, and CCL2 transcription in cells treated with CpG oligodeoxynucleotides as TLR9 ligand. Microglial uptake of AMWAP effectively inhibited TLR4-dependent NFκB activation by preventing IRAK-1 and IκBα proteolysis. No inhibition of IκBα phosphorylation or ubiquitination and no influence on overall 20S proteasome activity were observed. Functionally, both microglial nitric oxide (NO) secretion and 661W photoreceptor apoptosis were significantly reduced after AMWAP treatment. AMWAP promoted the filopodia formation of microglia and increased the phagocytic uptake of apoptotic 661W photoreceptor cells.CONCLUSIONS: AMWAP is secreted from reactive microglia and acts in a paracrine fashion to counter-balance TLR2/TLR4-induced reactivity through NFκB inhibition. AMWAP also induces a neuroprotective microglial phenotype with reduced neurotoxicity and increased phagocytosis. We therefore hypothesize that anti-inflammatory whey acidic proteins could have a therapeutic potential in neurodegenerative diseases of the brain and the retina.
Background. Cholesteatoma is a destructive process of the middle ear resulting in erosion of the surrounding bony structures with consequent hearing loss, vestibular dysfunction, facial paralysis, or intracranial complications. The etiopathogenesis of cholesteatoma is controversial but is associated with recurrent ear infections. The role of intracellular innate immune receptors, the NOD-like receptors, and their associated signaling networks was investigated in cholesteatoma, since mutations in NOD-like receptor-related genes have been implicated in other chronic inflammatory disorders. Results. The expression of NOD2 mRNA and protein was significantly induced in cholesteatoma compared to the external auditory canal skin, mainly located in the epithelial layer of cholesteatoma. Microarray analysis showed significant upregulation for NOD2, not for NOD1, TLR2, or TLR4 in cholesteatoma. Moreover, regulation of genes in an interaction network of the NOD-adaptor molecule RIPK2 was detected. In addition to NOD2, NLRC4, and PYCARD, the downstream molecules IRAK1 and antiapoptotic regulator CFLAR showed significant upregulation, whereas SMAD3, a proapoptotic inducer, was significantly downregulated. Finally, altered regulation of inflammatory target genes of NOD signaling was detected. Conclusions. These results indicate that the interaction of innate immune signaling mediated by NLRs and their downstream target molecules is involved in the etiopathogenesis and growth of cholesteatoma.
Even though a lot of reports have suggested the anti-inflammatory activity of kaempferol (KF) in macrophages, little is known about its exact anti-inflammatory mode of action and its immunopharmacological target molecules. In this study, we explored anti-inflammatory activity of KF in LPS-treated macrophages. In particular, molecular targets for KF action were identified by using biochemical and molecular biological analyses. KF suppressed the release of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), downregulated the cellular adhesion of U937 cells to fibronectin (FN), neutralized the generation of radicals, and diminished mRNA expression levels of inflammatory genes encoding inducible NO synthase (iNOS), TNF-α, and cyclooxygenase- (COX-) 2 in lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) and sodium nitroprusside- (SNP-) treated RAW264.7 cells and peritoneal macrophages. KF reduced NF-κB (p65 and p50) and AP-1 (c-Jun and c-Fos) levels in the nucleus and their transcriptional activity. Interestingly, it was found that Src, Syk, IRAK1, and IRAK4 responsible for NF-κB and AP-1 activation were identified as the direct molecular targets of KF by kinase enzyme assays and by measuring their phosphorylation patterns. KF was revealed to have in vitro and in vivo anti-inflammatory activity by the direct suppression of Src, Syk, IRAK1, and IRAK4, involved in the activation of NF-κB and AP-1.
OBJECTIVE: Reduced frequency of atherosclerotic plaques is observed in interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK1)-deficient mice; however, the underlying mechanism is not clear. Therefore, this study investigate the role of IRAK1 in vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and neointimal hyperplasia.APPROACH AND RESULTS: Stimulation of rat primary vascular smooth muscle cells with fetal bovine serum (10%) or platelet-derived growth factor-BB (20 ng/mL) for 15 minutes to 24 hours induced a time-dependent increase in IRAK1 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation, proliferating cell nuclear antigen upregulation and p27Kip1 downregulation as assessed by Western blotting. Inhibitors of ERK pathway (U0126, 10 μmol/L), IRAK (IRAK1/4, 3 μmol/L), protein kinase C (PKC; Ro-31-8220, 1 μmol/L), siRNA of toll-like receptor-4 (200 nmol/L), and PKC-ε (200 nmol/L) significantly attenuated these changes. Platelet-derived growth factor induced endogenous IRAK-ERK-PKC-ε association in a toll-like receptor-4 and PKC-ε-dependent manner. A time-dependent increase in IRAK1 and ERK activation was observed after 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 6 hours, 12 hours, and 24 hours of carotid balloon injury in rats. Balloon injury induced endogenous IRAK-ERK-PKC-ε interaction. Perivascular application of IRAK1/4 inhibitor (100 μmol/L), U0126 (100 μmol/L), and IRAK1 siRNA (220 and 360 nmol/L) in pluronic gel abrogated balloon injury-induced ERK phosphorylation, activation, and p27Kip1 downregulation. Hematoxylin and eosin staining and immunohistochemistry of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and smooth muscle actin demonstrated that balloon injury-induced intimal thickening and neointimal vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation were significantly abrogated in the presence of IRAK1/4 inhibitor, IRAK1 siRNA, and U0126.CONCLUSIONS: IRAK1 mediates vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation and neointimal hyperplasia by regulating PKC-ε-IRAK1-ERK axis.
Unwarranted overproduction of cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-1β, can cause moderate to severe pathological complications, and thus elaborate mechanisms are needed to regulate its onset and termination. One such, well-known, mechanism is endotoxin tolerance, generally described as controlling lipopolysaccharide Toll-like receptor 4 (LPS-TLR4) signaling. Similarly, cytokine-induced tolerance plays an important role in regulating an overactive cytokine response. In this report, the capability of IL-1β to induce tolerance and cross-tolerance to various inflammatory ligands was investigated. IL-1β-stimulated THP-1 monocytes showed a gradual increase of microRNA (miR)-146a, reaching 15-fold expression by 24 h. miR-146a upregulation induced tolerance toward subsequent challenges of IL-1β, LPS, peptidoglycan, Pam and flagellin in THP-1 cells. The induction of tolerance was dependent on the IL-1β priming dose and associated increase of miR-146a expression. Moreover, IL-1β-treated THP-1 cells showed sustained miR-146a upregulation that repressed IRAK1 and TRAF6 adaptor molecules. Transfection of miR-146a alone mimicked IL-1β-induced tolerance in monocytes, while cells transfected with miR-146a inhibitor increased chemokine production. A comparable cytokine response regulated by miR-146a was also detected in lung epithelial A549 cells, purified human monocytes and mouse peritoneal macrophages. Thus, our studies showed that miR-146a was crucial for monocytic cell-based IL-1β tolerance and cross-tolerance, and thus opens the way for future research in the development of therapeutics for inflammatory diseases.
BACKGROUND: Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) is the causative agent of Japanese encephalitis which is more prevalent in South and Southeast Asia. JEV is a neurotropic virus which infiltrates into the brain through vascular endothelial cells. JEV infects neurons and microglial cells which causes neuronal damage and inflammation. However, JEV also evades the cellular immune response to survive in host cells. Viruses are known to modulate the expression of microRNAs, which in turn modulate cellular immune response by targeting expression of antiviral genes. The aim of this study is to understand the anti-inflammatory role of miR-146a during JEV infection, which facilitates immune evasion.METHODS: Human brain microglial cells (CHME3) were infected by JEV: JaOArS982 and P20778 strain, and expression of miR-146a were analyzed. Overexpression and knockdown studies of miR-146a were done to see the effect on NF-κB pathway and antiviral Jak-STAT pathway. Regulatory role of miR-146a on expression of interferon-stimulated genes was determined by real-time PCR and luciferase assays.RESULTS: JEV infection elevated the expression of miR-146a in JaOArS982 strain which caused downregulation of TRAF6, IRAK1, IRAK2, and STAT1 genes. Exogenous overexpression of miR-146a led to suppression of NF-κB activation and abrogation of Jak-STAT pathway upon JEV infection which led to downregulation of interferon-stimulated genes (IFIT-1 and IFIT-2) and facilitated viral replication. JEV infection initially upregulated cytokine production and activated STAT1 activity but STAT1 levels reduced at later time point, which led to the downregulation of interferon-stimulated genes.CONCLUSION: Upregulation of miR-146a by JEV JaOArS982 strain leads to suppression of NF-κB activity and disruption of antiviral Jak-STAT signaling which helps the virus to evade the cellular immune response. This effect of JEV infection on miR-146a expression was found to be strain specific.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to investigate the expression of Toll-like receptors (TLR) and TLR-associated signalling pathway genes in oral lichen planus (OLP).METHODS: Initially, immunohistochemistry was used to determine TLR expression in 12 formalin-fixed archival OLP tissues with 12 non-specifically inflamed oral tissues as controls. RNA was isolated from further fresh samples of OLP and non-specifically inflamed oral tissue controls (n = 6 for both groups) and used in qRT(2)-PCR focused arrays to determine the expression of TLRs and associated signalling pathway genes. Genes with a statistical significance of ±two-fold regulation (FR) and a P-value < 0.05 were considered as significantly regulated.RESULTS: Significantly more TLR4(+) cells were present in the inflammatory infiltrate in OLP compared with the control tissues (P < 0.05). There was no statistically significant difference in the numbers of TLR2(+) and TLR8(+) cells between the groups. TLR3 was significantly downregulated in OLP (P < 0.01). TLR8 was upregulated in OLP, but the difference between the groups was not statistically significant. The TLR-mediated signalling-associated protein genes MyD88 and TIRAP were significantly downregulated (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05), as were IRAK1 (P < 0.05), MAPK8 (P < 0.01), MAP3K1 (P < 0.05), MAP4K4 (P < 0.05), REL (P < 0.01) and RELA (P < 0.01). Stress proteins HMGB1 and the heat shock protein D1 were significantly downregulated in OLP (P < 0.01).CONCLUSION: These findings suggest a downregulation of TLR-mediated signalling pathways in OLP lesions.
Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (FBP) is a glycolytic intermediate with salutary effects in various brain injury models, but its neuroprotective mechanism is incompletely understood. In this study, we examined the effects of FBP on the expression of adhesion molecules in cerebrovascular endothelial cells and explored the possible mechanisms therein involved. FBP significantly down-regulated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced expression of adhesion molecules and leukocyte adhesion to brain endothelial cells and inhibited NF-κB activity, which is implicated in the expression of adhesion molecules. FBP abrogated ICAM-1 expression and NF-κB activation induced by macrophage-activating lipopeptide 2-kDa (MALP-2) or overexpression of MyD88 or TRAF6. FBP suppressed TRAF6-induced phosphorylation of TAK1, IKKβ and IκBα, but fail to affect NF-κB activity induced by ectopic expression of IKKβ. In addition, LPS-induced IRAK-1 phosphorylation was inhibited by FBP, suggesting the presence of multiple molecular targets of FBP in MyD88-dependent signaling pathway. FBP significantly attenuated ICAM-1 expression and NF-κB activity induced by poly[I:C] or overexpression of TRIF or TBK1. FBP significantly repressed the expression of interferon-β (IFN-β) and the activation of IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) induced by LPS, poly[I:C] or overexpression of TRIF or TBK1, but fail to affect IRF3 activity induced by ectopic expression of constitutively active IRF3. Overall, our results demonstrate that FBP modulates both MyD88- and TRIF-dependent signaling pathways of TLR4 and subsequent inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells, providing insight into its neuroprotective mechanism in brain injury associated with inflammation.
AIMS: Bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) induce innate immune inflammatory responses in endothelial cells by activating toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signalling. Here, we investigate the effects of angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) on LPS-induced TLR4 signalling and the role of the miR-146 family of micro RNAs in the effects of Ang-1 on TRL4 signalling.METHODS AND RESULTS: Leucocyte adhesion to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) was detected using fluorescence microscopy. Adhesion molecule, pro-inflammatory cytokine, miR-146a, and miR-146b-5p expressions in HUVECs were quantified using real-time PCR. TLR4 signalling protein levels were measured using immunoblotting. Exposure of HUVECs to LPS for 4-6 h induces robust inflammatory responses, including enhanced leucocyte adhesion, up-regulation of adhesion molecule expression (VCAM1, ICAM1, E-SELECTIN), enhanced cytokine production (TNFα, IL1β, IL6, and IL8), and increased NFκB luciferase reporter activity. Addition of Ang-1 to the culture medium for 24 h prior to LPS exposure significantly attenuates these responses. Prolonged Ang-1 exposure significantly decreases IRAK1 and TRAF6 protein levels but has no effect on TLR4, MYD88, IRAK4, or TAK1 expressions. Ang-1 triggers significant up-regulation of miR-146b-5p levels but has no effect on miR-146a or miR-146b-3p expressions. Transfection of HUVECs with a miR-146b-5p mimic significantly attenuates LPS-induced inflammatory responses and IRAK1 and TRAF6 expressions. In HUVECs transfected with a miR-146b-5p inhibitor, Ang-1 has no effect on LPS-induced inflammatory responses or IRAK1 and TRAF6 expressions.CONCLUSION: Ang-1 disrupts TLR4 signalling, resulting in inhibition of LPS-induced inflammatory responses in endothelial cells. This inhibition occurs through selective targeting of IRAK1 and TRAF6 proteins by miR-146b-5p.
CpG-ODNs activate dendritic cells (DCs) to produce interferon alpha (IFNα) and beta (IFNβ). Previous studies demonstrated that Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) deficient DCs exhibited a residual IFNα response to CpG-A, indicating that yet-unidentified molecules are also involved in induction of IFNα by CpG-A. Here, we report that the catalytic subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PKcs) but not Ku70 deficient BMDCs showed defective IFNα and IFNβ responses to CpG-A or CpG-B. Loss of both DNA-PKcs and TLR9 further reduced the IFNα response to CpG-A. These DNA-PKcs and TLR9 effects were mediated by their downstream Akt/mTORC1 pathway and downstream events IRAK1 and IKKα. Loss of DNA-PKcs, TLR9, MyD88 or IRAK4 impaired phosphorylation of Akt(S473), S6K, S6, IRAK1, or IKKα in BMDCs in response to CpG-ODNs. The residual IFNα and IFNβ in DNA-PKcs-deficient BMDCs were partially responsible for the induction of IL-6 and IL-12 by CpG-ODNs and their stimulatory effect was blocked by IFNAR1 neutralizing antibodies. Further analysis indicated that CpG-ODN associated with DNA-PKcs and Ku70, and induced DNA-PKcs's interaction with TRAF3. Intriguingly, DNA-PKcs but not Ku70 expression level was reduced in TLR9-deficient BMDCs. Taken together, our data suggest that DNA-PKcs is an important mediator in the type I IFN response to CpG-ODNs in TLR9-dependent or -independent fashions.
The miR-146-mediated IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) feedback circuit has been shown to inhibit inflammatory response in macrophages against lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The aim of this study is to compare the antagonized effects of miR-146a-5p on Porphyromonas gingivalis (P.g) lipolysaccharide (LPS)- and advanced glycation end products (AGEs)-triggered ABCA1 and ABCG1 dysregulation and explore the underlying mechanism. THP-1-derived macrophages transfected with miRNA mimics or not were treated with P.g LPS or AGE-BSA, respectively. The mechanism of endotoxin tolerance was mimicked. miR-146a-5p levels and protein levels of IRAK-1, LXRα/β, ABCA1, and ABCG1 were detected by stem-loop reverse transcription followed by TaqMan PCR analysis and Western blotting. Our results showed that miR-146a-5p levels were significantly increased in macrophages after 24 h of stimulation with high dose of P.g LPS or AGE-BSA. Macrophages transfected with miR-146a-5p mimics attenuated the dysregulation of ABCA1/G1 induced by P.g LPS and AGEs through IRAK-1 downregulation. In low-dose LPS-tolerized cells, elevated miR-146a-5p antagonized the increase of ABCA1, ABCG1, and IRAK-1. However, low-dose AGE-BSA did not increase miR-146a-5p levels. In conclusion, the model of endotoxin tolerance is suitable for the antagonistic effects on the dysregulation of ABCA1/G1 induced by high dose of P.g LPS. Conversely, low-dose AGEs did not induce the model of P.g LPS-mediated tolerance.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Saururus chinensis is a medicinal plant used to treat jaundice, pneumonia, edema, fever, and several inflammatory diseases. Saucerneol D (SD), a lignan constituent of this plant, has antioxidant, anti-asthmatic, and anti-inflammatory activities. SD has been previously reported to inhibit the pro-inflammatory responses of RAW264.7 cells and primary mast cells. In this study, we investigated the effect of SD on the functions of dendritic cells (DCs).MATERIALS AND METHODS: SD was isolated from methanol extract of the roots of S. chinensis. Bone marrow-derived DCs were used as target cells. The effects of SD on the following DC functions were examined: surface molecule expression, cytokine expression, migration, allogenic T cell activation, heme oxygenase-1 expression, and Toll-like receptor 4 signaling.RESULTS: In lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated DCs, SD inhibited the expression of cell surface molecules (MHC I/II, CD40, CD80, and CD86), the production of inflammatory mediators (nitric oxide, IL-12, IL-1β, and TNF-α), and allogenic T cell activation capacity. SD also inhibited DC migration toward MIP-3β by down-regulating CCR7 expression. SD attenuated LPS-induced activation of NF-κB and MAPK signaling in DCs, but did not directly inhibit kinase activities of IRAK1, IRAK4, TAK1, or IKKβ in enzymatic assays. SD did not inhibit LPS binding to myeloid differentiation protein-2, co-receptor of TLR4. SD increased the production of reactive oxygen species, Nrf-2, and heme oxygenase (HO)-1, which degrades the heme to immunosuppressive carbon monoxide and biliverdin, which may underlie the anti-inflammatory effects in SD-treated DCs.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these data suggest that SD suppresses LPS-induced activation of DCs through the induction of HO-1, but not by directly affecting Toll-like receptor 4 signaling.
AIM: To investigate the efficacy and molecular mechanisms of induced heme oxygenase (HO)-1 in protecting liver from warm ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury.METHODS: Partial warm ischemia was produced in the left and middle hepatic lobes of SD rats for 75 min, followed by 6 h of reperfusion. Rats were treated with saline, cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP) or zinc protoporphyrin (ZnPP) at 24 h prior to the ischemia insult. Blood and samples of ischemic lobes subjected to ischemia were collected at 6 h after reperfusion. Serum transaminases level, plasma lactate dehydrogenase and myeloperoxidase activity in liver were measured. Liver histological injury and inflammatory cell infiltration were evaluated by tissue section and liver immunohistochemical analysis. We used quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction to analyze liver expression of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. The cell lysates were subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti-Toll-IL-1R-containing adaptor inducing interferon-β (TRIF) and anti-myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), and then the immunoprecipitates were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted with the indicated antibodies.RESULTS: HO-1 protected livers from I/R injury, as evidenced by diminished liver enzymes and well-preserved tissue architecture. In comparison with ZnPP livers 6 h after surgery, CoPP treatment livers showed a significant increase inflammatory cell infiltration of lymphocytes, plasma cells, neutrophils and macrophages. The Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4 and TANK binding kinase 1 protein levels of rats treated with CoPP significantly reduced in TRIF-immunoprecipitated complex, as compared with ZnPP treatment. In addition, pretreatment with CoPP reduced the expression levels of TLR2, TLR4, IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 in MyD88-immunoprecipitated complex. The inflammatory cytokines and chemokines mRNA expression rapidly decreased in CoPP-pretreated liver, compared with the ZnPP-treated group. However, the expression of negative regulators Toll-interacting protein, suppressor of cytokine signaling-1, IRAK-M and Src homology 2 domain-containing inositol-5-phosphatase-1 in CoPP treatment rats were markedly up-regulated as compared with ZnPP-treated rats.CONCLUSION: HO-1 protects liver against I/R injury by inhibiting TLR2/TLR4-triggered MyD88- and TRIF-dependent signaling pathways and increasing expression of negative regulators of TLR signaling in rats.
Variation in gene expression is an important mechanism underlying susceptibility to complex disease and traits. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) account for a substantial portion of the total detected genetic variation in gene expression but how exactly variants acting in trans modulate gene expression and disease susceptibility remains largely unknown. The BDNF Val66Met SNP has been associated with a number of psychiatric disorders such as depression, anxiety disorders, schizophrenia and related traits. Using global microRNA expression profiling in hippocampus of humanized BDNF Val66Met knock-in mice we showed that this variant results in dysregulation of at least one microRNA, which in turn affects downstream target genes. Specifically, we show that reduced levels of miR-146b (mir146b), lead to increased Per1 and Npas4 mRNA levels and increased Irak1 protein levels in vitro and are associated with similar changes in the hippocampus of hBDNF(Met/Met) mice. Our findings highlight trans effects of common variants on microRNA-mediated gene expression as an integral part of the genetic architecture of complex disorders and traits.
BACKGROUND: Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a major role in innate immunity, since they detect conserved pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) on a range of microbes, including viruses, leading to innate immune activation and orchestration of the adaptive immune response.OBJECTIVES: The current study aimed to discuss earlier evidence implicating TLRs I and II in the innate immune response to viruses, in the light of more recent clinical data demonstrating that TLRs are important for anti-viral immunity in humans.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A literature search was performed via accessing research articles from PakMediNet, Pubmed and Google Scholar with key words of Toll-like receptors I and II Regarding human viral pathogenesis. The valued information on the recent scientific horizons was subjected to critical analysis.RESULTS: Comprehensive literature review illustrates important signaling pathways involved in TLR1/TLR2 mediated regulation of viral pathogenesis. TLRs mediated activation of apoptosis tends to contribute towards defense strategies utilized by innate immune response. Activation of antiviral TLR1-dependent signaling cascade would ultimately lead to activation of NF-kappa B which promotes antiviral responses via induction of specific genes. TLR1/TLR2 dimer generates intracellular signaling via IRAK4 mediated activation of IRAK1/2 which results in activation of NF-kappa B, p38 and JNK proteins in cytoplasm. NF- kappa B, p38 and JNK enter the nucleus thereby causing activation of various pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-8 and IL-18. Among the chronic HCV infection, the HCV core protein induces TNF-α and IL-10 from the macrophages thereby causing reduction in release of interferon alpha. Abnormal TLR1/TLR2 signaling may contribute to the enhancement of infection-related morbidity and mortality.CONCLUSIONS: To date, a large number of viruses are proved to trigger innate immunity via TLRs, suggesting that these receptors are likely to be important in the outcome of viral infection. This suggestion is supported by the observation that many viruses have evolved mechanisms not only to evade the innate immune system, but also to subvert it for the benefit of the virus.
Although plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) represent a rare immune cell type, they are the most important source of type I interferons (IFNs) upon viral infection. Phagocytosed RNA viruses and RNA virus-infected cells are detected by pDCs with the endosomal pattern recognition receptor (PRR) toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7). We showed that replication of the yellow fever live vaccine YF-17D in human pDCs and pDC-like cell lines stimulated type I IFN production through RIG-I (retinoic acid-inducible gene I), a member of the RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) family of cytosolic PRRs. Thus, human pDCs sense replicative viral RNA. In contrast, direct contact between pDCs and YF-17D-infected cells stimulated a TLR7-dependent, viral replication-independent production of type I IFN. We also showed that the RLR pathway was dampened by the activities of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases 1 and 4 (IRAK1 and IRAK4), which are downstream effectors of the TLR7 pathway, suggesting that both kinases play opposing roles downstream of specific PRRs. Together, these data suggest that a virus can stimulate either TLR or RLR signaling in the same cell, depending on how its nucleic acid content is delivered.
FOXP3 functions not only as the master regulator in regulatory T cells, but also as an X-linked tumor suppressor. The tumor-suppressive activity of FOXP3 has been observed in tumor initiation, but its role during tumor progression remains controversial. Moreover, the mechanism of FOXP3-mediated tumor-suppressive activity remains largely unknown. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) sequencing, we identified a series of potential FOXP3-targeted miRNAs in MCF7 cells. Notably, FOXP3 significantly induced the expression of miR-146a/b. In vitro, FOXP3-induced miR-146a/b prevented tumor cell proliferation and enhanced apoptosis. Functional analyses in vitro and in vivo revealed that FOXP3-induced miR-146a/b negatively regulates NF-κB activation by inhibiting the expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6. In ChIP assays, FOXP3 directly bound the promoter region of miR-146a but not of miR-146b, and FOXP3 interacted directly with NF-κB p65 to regulate an miR-146-NF-κB negative feedback regulation loop in normal breast epithelial and tumor cells, as demonstrated with luciferase reporter assays. Although FOXP3 significantly inhibited breast tumor growth and migration in vitro and metastasis in vivo, FOXP3-induced miR-146a/b contributed only to the inhibition of breast tumor growth. These data suggest that miR-146a/b contributes to FOXP3-mediated tumor suppression during tumor growth by triggering apoptosis. The identification of a FOXP3-miR-146-NF-κB axis provides an underlying mechanism for disruption of miR-146 family member expression and constitutive NF-κB activation in breast cancer cells. Linking the tumor suppressor function of FOXP3 to NF-κB activation reveals a potential therapeutic approach for cancers with FOXP3 defects.
The tumor-suppressive activity of FOXP3 has been observed in tumor initiation, but the underlying mechanism still remains largely unknown. Here, we identified a FOXP3-microRNA-146 (miR-146)-NF-κB axis in vitro and in vivo in prostate cancer cells. We observed that FOXP3 dramatically induced the expression of miR-146a/b, which contributed to transcriptional inhibition of IRAK1 and TRAF6, in prostate cancer cell lines. Tissue-specific deletion of Foxp3 in mouse prostate caused a significant reduction of miR-146a and upregulation of NF-κB activation. In addition, prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia lesions were observed in miR-146a-mutant mice as well as in Foxp3-mutant mice. Notably, the NF-κB inhibitor bortezomib inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in prostate epithelial cells, attenuating prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia formation in Foxp3-mutant mice. Our data suggest that the FOXP3-miR-146-NF-κB axis has a functional role during tumor initiation in prostate cancer. Targeting the miR-146-NF-κB axis may provide a new therapeutic approach for prostate cancers with FOXP3 defects.
The rhizome of Anemarrhena asphodeloides (AA, family Liliaceae), which contains furostanol and spirostanol saponins, is a typical herbal medicine that improves learning and memory in rats and inhibits inflammation. In a preliminary study, timosaponin AIII, one of AA main constituents, was metabolized to sarsasapogenin by gut microbiota and inhibited NF-κB activation in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages. Here we have investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of AIII and sarsasapogenin in vitro and in vivo. Both AIII and sarsasapogenin potently inhibited NF-κB and MAPK activation, as well as IRAK1, TAK1, and IκBα phosphorylation in LPS-stimulated macrophages. Further, AIII and sarsasapogenin inhibited the binding of LPS to macrophage Toll-like receptor 4, as well as polarization of M2 to M1 macrophages. Oral administration of AIII and sarsasapogenin inhibited 2,3,4-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colon shortening and myeloperoxidase activity in mice, along with reducing NF-κB activation and interleukin (IL)-1β, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and IL-6 levels, while simultaneously increasing IL-10. Both compounds inhibited Th17 cell differentiation in colonic lamina propria, but induced Treg cell differentiation. Further, AIII and sarsasapogenin inhibited the differentiation of splenic CD4(+) T cells into Th17 cells in vitro. The vitro and in vivo anti-inflammatory effects of sarsasapogenin were more potent than AIII. These results suggest that orally administered AIII may be metabolized to sarsasapogenin by gut microbiota, which may ameliorate inflammatory diseases such as colitis by inhibiting TLR4-NF-κB/MAPK signaling pathway and restoring Th17/Treg cell balance.
18β-Glycyrrhetinic acid (GRA), a natural immunomodulator, greatly reduced the parasite load in experimental visceral leishmaniasis through nitric oxide (NO) upregulation, proinflammatory cytokine expression, and NF-κB activation. For the GRA-mediated effect, the primary kinase responsible was found to be p38, and analysis of phosphorylation kinetics as well as studies with dominant-negative (DN) constructs revealed mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 3 (MKK3) and MKK6 as the immediate upstream regulators of p38. However, detection of remnant p38 kinase activity in the presence of both DN MKK3 and MKK6 suggested alternative pathways of p38 activation. That residual p38 activity was attributed to an autophosphorylation event ensured by the transforming growth factor β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1)-binding protein 1 (TAB1)-p38 interaction and was completely abolished upon pretreatment with SB203580 in DN MKK3/6 double-transfected macrophage cells. Further upstream signaling evaluation by way of phosphorylation kinetics and transfection studies with DN constructs identified TAK1, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), interleukin 1 receptor (IL-1R)-activated kinase 1 (IRAK1), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) as important contributors to GRA-mediated macrophage activation. Finally, gene knockdown studies revealed Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TLR4 as the membrane receptors associated with GRA-mediated antileishmanial activity. Together, the results of this study brought mechanistic insight into the antileishmanial activity of GRA, which is dependent on the TLR2/4-MyD88 signaling axis, leading to MKK3/6-mediated canonical and TAB1-mediated noncanonical p38 activation.
PS-341 is a highly selective and potent proteasome inhibitor that is cytotoxic to various types of cancer. However, no objective response was seen in a clinical trial with PS-341 as a single agent in non-small cell lung cancer. Its antitumor activity is limited by the simultaneously activated antiapoptosis pathway. Recently, PS-341-induced NF-κB activation via IκBα degradation has been suggested to be one of its antiapoptotic effects. In this study, we investigated the effects of a combined application of the heat shock protein (Hsp) 90 inhibitor 17-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG) with PS-341 in lung cancer cells. Hsp90 inhibition with 17-AAG was effective in enhancing PS-341-induced lung cancer cell death in vitro and in vivo. 17-AAG pretreatment induced the degradation of upstream regulators of IκB, IL-1R-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1), and IκB kinases (IKKs), dose and time dependently, which resulted in blocking of PS-341-induced IκBα degradation, p65 nuclear translocation, transcriptional activity, and NF-κB-regulated antiapoptotic gene expressions such as COX-2. The concentrations of 17-AAG used for combinatorial treatment with PS-341 did not change cell viability or the activity of proteasome complex. Moreover, 17-AAG pretreatment decreased the level of phsophorylated Akt at serine 473 residue and suppressed active Akt-dependent inactivation of glycogen synthase kinase 3β. 17-AAG mediated the dissociation of its client proteins (IRAK-1, IKKs, and Akt) from the Hsp90 complex. As a result, it induced degradation of target proteins. Our results suggest that the combination of 17-AAG and PS-341 could be an effective anticancer therapy that overcomes the limited effects of PS-341.
Erratum in    PLoS Comput Biol. 2015 Mar;11(3):e1004133.
The current study was designed to explore whether microRNA-146a and its adapter proteins (tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1)) are involved in the pathogenesis of diabetes neuropathy. Twelve male Sprague Dawley rats were randomized into control and diabetic groups (n = 6). Diabetes was induced by a single-dose injection of nicotinamide (110 mg/kg; i.p.), 15 min before injection of streptozotocin (50 mg/kg; i.p.) in 12-h-fasted rats. Diabetic neuropathy was evaluated by hot plate and tail emersion tests, 2 months after the injection of streptozotocin. The gene expression level of microRNA-146a (miR-146a), IRAK1, TRAF6, and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) was measured in the sciatic nerve of rats using the real time-PCR method. Moreover, the activity of NF-κB and the concentration of pro-inflammatory cytokines were determined by the ELISA method. In comparison with the control group, a threefold increase in the expression of miR-146a and NF-κB, and a twofold decrease in the expression of TRAF6 were observed in the sciatic nerve of diabetic rats. Furthermore, the NF-κB activity and the concentration of TNF-α, interleukin 6 (IL-6), and interleukin 1β (IL-1β) in the sciatic nerve of diabetic rats were higher than in those of control counterparts. These results suggest that a defect in the NF-кB-miR-146a negative feedback loop may be involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy.
BACKGROUND AND AIM: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the most common chronic liver diseases worldwide. In this study, we investigated the role of miR-146b in the Toll-like receptor-4 signaling pathway and high-fat diet (HFD)-induced NASH in vivo and in vitro.METHODS: The effect of miR-146b on the expression of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) in RAW264.7 cells and HepG2 was studied, and the effect of miR-146b on lipid accumulation in HepG2 was also studied in vitro. The levels of IRAK1, TRAF6, NF-κB, and pro-inflammatory cytokines, as well as the histologic features and lipid accumulation in the livers of HFD-induced non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and an miR-146b-administered HFD mouse model, were studied in vivo.RESULTS: After miR-146b administration, TRAF6 and IRAK1 mRNA and protein levels in macrophages after lipopolysaccharide administration and in HepG2 cells after oleic acid (OA) administration were significantly decreased in 146b group compared with control group (P < 0.001). The lipid accumulation in HepG2 cells exposed to OA was also decreased by inactivation of IRAK1 and TRAF6, then downregulation of the downstream molecules (NF-κB) and upregulation of the tension homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) level. In vivo, after administration of miR-146b, TRAF6 and IRAK1 mRNA and protein levels as well as TNF-α and IL-6 mRNA and protein levels were decreased, and hematoxylin and eosin staining showed that the 146b group had low average adipose cell cross-sectional areas compared with control group.CONCLUSION: MiR-146b ameliorated HFD-induced NASH by directly suppressing IRAK1 and TRAF6.
The interleukin-1 receptor associated kinases 1 (IRAK1) is a down stream effector molecule of the toll like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, which is involved in inflammation, autoimmunity and cancer. However, the role of IRAK1 in lung cancer remains unclarified. Herein, we investigated the protein expression and the clinicopathological significance of IRAK1 in 3 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded lung cancer tissue microarrays by using immunohistochemistry, which included 365 tumor and 30 normal lung tissues. We found that the expression of IRAK1 in lung cancer was significantly higher compared with that in normal lung tissues (P=0.002). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated to evaluate the power of IRAK1 to distinguish lung cancer from non-cancerous lung tissue. The area under curve (AUC) of ROC of IRAK1 was 0.643 (95% CI 0.550~0.735, P=0.009). Additionally, IRAK1 expression was related to clinical TNM stage (r=0.241, P < 0.001), lymph node metastasis (r=0.279, P < 0.001) and tumor size (r=0.299, P < 0.001) in lung cancer. In the subgroup of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer (SCLC), the positive rates of IRAK1 were both higher than that in the normal lung tissues (P=0.003, P=0.002, respectively). Further spearman analysis showed that IRAK1 protein in NSCLC was positive correlated with clinical TNM stage (r=0.222, P < 0.001), lymph node metastasis (r=0.277, P < 0.001), tumor size (r=0.292, P < 0.001) and distal metastasis (r=0.110, P=0.043). In conclusion, the expression of IRAK1 protein might be valuable in identifying patients with increased risks of lung cancer and might act as a target for diagnosis and gene therapy for lung cancer.
Mice lacking the IL-1R-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) are completely resistant to LPS-induced endotoxic disorder or the TLR9 agonist CpG DNA plus d-galactosamine-induced acute liver injury (ALI), whereas wild-type strains succumb. However, translational drugs against sepsis or ALI remain elusive. Lonicerae flos extract is undergoing the clinical trial phase I in LPS-injected healthy human volunteers for sepsis treatment. In the current study, chlorogenic acid (CGA), a major anti-inflammatory constituent of lonicerae flos extract, rescued endotoxic mortality of LPS-intoxicated C57BL/6 mice, as well as ameliorated ALI of LPS/d-galactosamine-challenged C57BL/6 mice. As a mechanism, CGA inhibited various TLR agonist-, IL-1α-, or high-mobility group box-1-stimulated autophosphorylation (activation) of IRAK4 in peritoneal macrophages from C57BL/6 or C3H/HeJ mice via directly affecting the kinase activity of IRAK4, a proximal signal transducer in the MyD88-mediated innate immunity that enhances transcriptional activity of NF-κB or AP-1. CGA consequently attenuated protein or mRNA levels of NF-κB/AP-1 target genes encoding TNF-α, IL-1α, IL-6, and high-mobility group box-1 in vivo under endotoxemia or ALI. Finally, this study suggests IRAK4 as a molecular target of CGA in the treatment of innate immunity-related shock and organ dysfunction following insult of various TLR pathogens from bacteria and viruses.
Conceptus-endometrial communication during the peri-implantation period of pregnancy ensures establishment of pregnancy. We hypothesized that this dialog involves exosomes, ovine endogenous jaagsiekte retroviruses (enJSRV) and toll-like receptors (TLR) which regulate the secretion of interferon tau (IFNT), the pregnancy recognition signal in ruminants. First, exosomes isolated from uterine flushings from cyclic and pregnant ewes were analyzed for exosomal content and uterine expression of heat shock protein 70 (HSC70). Then, conceptus trophectoderm cells (oTr1) treated with different doses of exosomes were analyzed for the expression of genes involved in TLR-mediated cell signaling. The results revealed that exosomes contain mRNAs for enJSRV-ENV, HSC70, interleukins, and interferon (IFN)-regulatory factors. Exosomal content of enJSRV-ENV mRNA and protein decreased from days 10 and 12 to day 16 of gestation, and uterine expression of HSC70 increased in pregnant ewes compared with cyclic ewes. The oTr1 cells proliferated and secreted IFNT in a dose-dependent manner in response to exosomes from cyclic ewes. The expression of CD14, CD68, IRAK1, TRAF6, IRF6, and IRF7 mRNAs that are key to TLR-mediated expression of type 1 IFNs was significantly influenced by day of pregnancy. This study demonstrated that exosomes are liberated into the uterine lumen during the estrous cycle and early pregnancy; however, in pregnant ewes, exosomes stimulate trophectoderm cells to proliferate and secrete IFNT coordinately with regulation of TLR-mediated cell signaling. These results support our hypothesis that free and/or exosomal enJSRV act on the trophectoderm via TLR to induce the secretion of IFNT in a manner similar to that for innate immune responses of macrophages and plasmacytoid dendritic cells to viral pathogens.
Infections are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The pathogenesis of infections is multifactorial and includes hypogammaglobulinemia, conventional therapy with alkylating drugs, and recently, purine analogs and mAb-associated T cells. Patients without these risk factors also suffer from infections, although the mechanism remains unknown. In a cohort of 70 patients with CLL, we demonstrated that their monocytes were locked into a refractory state and were unable to mount a classic inflammatory response to pathogens. In addition, they exhibited the primary features of endotoxin tolerance, including low cytokine production, high phagocytic activity, and impaired Ag presentation. The involvement of miR-146a in this phenomenon was suspected. We found miR-146a target genes, such as IRAK1 and TRAF6, were manifestly downregulated. Our study provides a new explanation for infections in patients with CLL and describes a cross-tolerance between endotoxins and tumors.
We have previously reported 27 differentially expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) during human monocyte differentiation into immature dendritic cells (imDCs) and mature DCs (mDCs). However, their roles in DC differentiation and function remain largely elusive. Here, we report that microRNA (miR)-146a and miR-146b modulate DC apoptosis and cytokine production. Expression of miR-146a and miR-146b was significantly increased upon monocyte differentiation into imDCs and mDCs. Silencing of miR-146a and/or miR-146b in imDCs and mDCs significantly prevented DC apoptosis, whereas overexpressing miR-146a and/or miR-146b increased DC apoptosis. miR-146a and miR-146b expression in imDCs and mDCs was inversely correlated with TRAF6 and IRAK1 expression. Furthermore, siRNA silencing of TRAF6 and/or IRAK1 in imDCs and mDCs enhanced DC apoptosis. By contrast, lentivirus overexpression of TRAF6 and/or IRAK1 promoted DC survival. Moreover, silencing of miR-146a and miR-146b expression had little effect on DC maturation but enhanced IL-12p70, IL-6, and TNF-α production as well as IFN-γ production by IL-12p70-mediated activation of natural killer cells, whereas miR-146a and miR-146b overexpression in mDCs reduced cytokine production. Silencing of miR-146a and miR-146b in DCs also down-regulated NF-κB inhibitor IκBα and increased Bcl-2 expression. Our results identify a new negative feedback mechanism involving the miR-146a/b-TRAF6/IRAK1-NF-κB axis in promoting DC apoptosis.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small non-coding RNA molecules that can play critical roles as regulators of numerous pathways and biological processes including the immune response. Emerging as one of the most important miRNAs to orchestrate immune and inflammatory signaling, often through its recognized target genes, IRAK1 and TRAF6, is microRNA-146a (miR-146a). MiR-146a is one, of a small number of miRNAs, whose expression is strongly induced following challenge of cells with bacterial endotoxin, and prolonged expression has been linked to immune tolerance, implying that it acts as a fine-tuning mechanism to prevent an overstimulation of the inflammatory response. In other cells, miR-146a has been shown to play a role in the control of the differentiation of megakaryocytic and monocytic lineages, adaptive immunity, and cancer. In this review, we discuss the central role prescribed to miR-146a in innate immunity. We particularly focus on the role played by miR-146a in the regulation and signaling mediated by one of the main pattern recognition receptors, toll/IL-1 receptors (TLRs). Additionally, we also discuss the role of miR-146a in several classes of autoimmune pathologies where this miRNA has been shown to be dysregulated, as well as its potential role in the pathobiology of neurodegenerative diseases.
BACKGROUND: Aging process is accompanied by a chronic sub-clinical systemic inflammation. This study aimed to assess the association between hearing impairment and polymorphisms of genes encoding cytokines deeply-committed to the inflammatory response and immune homeostasis in an elderly Japanese population. Data were collected in the Longitudinal Study of Aging surveyed biennially between 1997 and 2010. The participants without any missing information at baseline were 1,957 individuals, and the gross accumulated number of 8,675 subjects (40-89 years of age) was analyzed. Two hearing impairment criteria were taken as the better ear pure-tone average (PTABE) greater than 25 dB and greater than 40 dB. We analyzed cumulative data using generalized estimating equations to investigate the effect of 9 polymorphisms, namely, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α, rs1800630; TNF receptor super family (TNFRSF) 1B, rs1061624; interleukin (IL)-1A, rs1800587; IL-1B, rs16944; IL-4R, rs1801275; IL-6, rs1800796; IL-10, rs1800872; IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), rs1059702; C reactive protein (CRP), rs1130864.RESULTS: The odds ratios for the hearing impairment (PTABE >25 dB) risk under additive genetic model were significant in TNF-α rs1800630 and TNFRSF1B rs1061624, which were respectively 1.172 (confidence interval [CI]: 1.005-1.367), 1.211 (CI: 1.053-1.392) in model after adjustment for possible confounders. Using the criterion of PTABE >40 dB as disabling hearing impairment, the association remains significant in TNFRSF1B rs1061624, but not in TNF-α rs1800630. No other polymorphisms showed a significant association.CONCLUSIONS: The present population-based cohort study demonstrated that TNF-α rs1800630 and TNFRSF1B rs1061624 contributed to the incremental risk of hearing impairment in the elderly. TNF-α and TNF receptor interactions play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of the inflammatory response, and also cause programmed cell death and cell proliferation. The present observation implied the signalling cascades of TNF were involved in ear aging.
Our objective was to investigate whether interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) and methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) are associated with autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs). We selected four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs3027898, rs1059703 in IRAK1 and rs2075596, rs2239464 in MECP2, for genotyping using PCR-based ligase detection reaction (LDR) method in 1042 AITDs patients and 897 controls. Minor alleles in the four SNPs were strongly associated with AITDs, and similar associations were found in Graves' disease (GD). In Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) patients, a significantly increased risk of T allele in rs1059703 was found. There were obvious differences in allele and genotype distributions in female AITDs, GD and HT patients. Moreover, the haplotypes CCAA and ATGG were the associated variants for AITDs and GD. Besides, these two haplotypes showed similar associations with AITDs and GD in female patients. Our results firstly indicated that IRAK1 and MECP2 genes are crucial risk factors for AITDs.
Chronic inflammation has long been associated with the development of cancer. Among the various signaling pathways within cancer cells that can incite the expression of inflammatory molecules are those that activate IL-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAK). The IRAK family is comprised of four family members, IRAK-1, IRAK-2, IRAK-3 (also known as IRAK-M), and IRAK-4, which play important roles in both positively and negatively regulating the expression of inflammatory molecules. The wide array of inflammatory molecules that are expressed in response to IRAK signaling within the tumor microenvironment regulate the production of factors which promote tumor growth, metastasis, immune suppression, and chemotherapy resistance. Based on published reports we propose that dysregulated activation of the IRAK signaling pathway in cancer cells contributes to disease progression by creating a highly inflammatory tumor environment. In this article, we present both theoretical arguments and reference experimental data in support of this hypothesis.
Research on the use of natural products to treat or prevent microbial invasion as alternatives to antibiotic use is growing. Polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL) play a vital role with regard to the innate immune response that affects severity or duration of mastitis. To our knowledge, effect of cold-pressed terpeneless Valencia orange oil (TCO) on bovine PMNL function has not been elucidated. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate the effect of TCO on bovine blood PMNL chemotaxis and phagocytosis capabilities and the expression of genes involved in inflammatory response in vitro. Polymorphonuclear leukocytes were isolated from jugular blood of 12 Holstein cows in mid-lactation and were incubated with 0.0 or 0.01% TCO for 120min at 37°C and 5% CO2, and phagocytosis (2×10(6) PMNL) and chemotaxis (6×10(6) PMNL) assays were then performed in vitro. For gene expression, RNA was extracted from incubated PMNL (6×10(6) PMNL), and gene expression was analyzed using quantitative PCR. The supernatant was stored at -80°C for analysis of tumor necrosis factor-α. Data were analyzed using a general linear mixed model with cow and treatment (i.e., control or TCO) in the model statement. In vitro supplementation of 0.01% of TCO increased the chemotactic ability to IL-8 by 47%; however, migration of PMNL to complement 5a was not altered. Treatment did not affect the production of tumor necrosis factor-α by PMNL. Expression of proinflammatory genes (i.e., SELL, TLR4, IRAK1, TRAF6, and LYZ) coding for proteins was not altered by incubation of PMNL with TCO. However, downregulation of TLR2 [fold change (FC=treatment/control)=-2.14], NFKBIA (FC=1.82), IL1B (FC=-2.16), TNFA (FC=-9.43), and SOD2 (FC=-1.57) was observed for PMNL incubated with TCO when compared with controls. Interestingly, expression of IL10, a well-known antiinflammatory cytokine, was also downregulated (FC=-3.78), whereas expression of IL8 (FC=1.93), a gene coding for the cytokine IL-8 known for its chemotactic function, tended to be upregulated in PMNL incubated with TCO. Incubation of PMNL with TCO enhanced PMNL chemotaxis in vitro. The expression of genes involved in the inflammatory response was primarily downregulated. Results showed that 0.01% TCO did not impair the function of PMNL in vitro. Future studies investigating the use of TCO as an alternative therapy for treatment of mastitis, including dose and duration, for cows during lactation are warranted.
Intervertebral disc (IVD) disease, which is characterised by age-related changes in the adult disc, is the most common cause of disc failure and low back pain. The purpose of this study was to analyse the potential of the biologically active polyphenol epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG) for the treatment of painful IVD disease by identifying and explaining its anti-inflammatory and anti-catabolic activity. Human IVD cells were isolated from patients undergoing surgery due to degenerative disc disease (n = 34) and cultured in 2D or 3D. An inflammatory response was activated by IL-1β, EGCG was added, and the expression/activity of inflammatory mediators and pathways was measured by qRT-PCR, western blotting, ELISA, immunofluorescence and transcription factor assay. The small molecule inhibitor SB203580 was used to investigate the involvement of the p38 pathway in the observed effects. The analgesic properties of EGCG were analysed by the von Frey filament test in Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 60). EGCG significantly inhibited the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators and matrix metalloproteinases in vitro, as well as radiculopathic pain in vivo, most probably by modulation of the activity of IRAK-1 and its downstream effectors p38, JNK and NF-κB.
Endotoxin tolerance (ET) is an important phenomenon, which affects inflammation and phagocytosis. Pretreatment with low dose of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) can protect liver injury from various hepatotoxicants such as acetaminophen and pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A. The current study aimed to investigate the protecting mechanisms of endotoxin tolerance in acute liver failure induced by D-galactosamine (D-GalN)/LPS and possible role of toll-like receptors 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway in this phenomenon. Acute liver failure was induced by Injection of D-GalN/LPS. To mimic endotoxin tolerance, male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with low dose of LPS (0.1 mg/kg once a day intraperitoneally for consecutive five days) before subsequent injection of D-GalN/LPS. Rat survival was determined by survival rate. Liver injury was confirmed by serum biochemical and liver histopathological examination. Inflammatory cytokines were determined by ELISA and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) (P65), toll-like receptors 4 (TLR4) and Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) were measured by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and western blot respectively. Pretreatment of LPS significantly improved rat survival. Moreover, rats pretreated with LPS exhibited lower serum enzyme (ALT, AST and TBiL) level, lower production of inflammatory cytokines and more minor liver histopathological damage than rats without pretreatment of LPS. LPS pretreatment suppressed production of TLR4 and IRAK-1. LPS pretreatment also inhibited activation of hepatic NF-κB. These results indicated that endotoxin tolerance contributed to liver protection against D-GalN/LPS induced acute liver failure through down-regulation of TLR4 and NF-κB pathway.
AP736 was identified as an antimelanogenic drug that can be used for the prevention of melasma, freckles, and dark spots in skin by acting as a suppressor of melanin synthesis and tyrosinase expression. Since macrophage-mediated inflammatory responses are critical for skin health, here we investigated the potential anti-inflammatory activity of AP736. The effects of AP736 on various inflammatory events such as nitric oxide (NO)/prostaglandin (PG) E2 production, inflammatory gene expression, phagocytic uptake, and morphological changes were examined in RAW264.7 cells. AP736 was found to strongly inhibit the production of both NO and PGE2 in lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) treated RAW264.7 cells. In addition, AP736 strongly inhibited both LPS-induced morphological changes and FITC-dextran-induced phagocytic uptake. Furthermore, AP736 also downregulated the expression of multiple inflammatory genes, such as inducible NO synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase- (COX-) 2, and interleukin- (IL-) 1β in LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells. Transcription factor analysis, including upstream signalling events, revealed that both NF-κB and AP-1 were targeted by AP736 via inhibition of the IKK/IκBα and IRAK1/TAK1 pathways. Therefore, our results strongly suggest that AP736 is a potential anti-inflammatory drug due to its suppression of NF-κB-IKK/IκBα and AP-1-IRAK1/TAK1 signalling, which may make AP736 useful for the treatment of macrophage-mediated skin inflammation.
BACKGROUND: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease with complex pathogenesis in which genes and environmental factors are involved. We aimed at analyzing previously identified loci associated with SLE or with other autoimmune and/or inflammatory disorders (STAT4, IL10, IL23R, IRAK1, PSORS1C1, HCP5, MIR146a, PTPN2, ERAP1, ATG16L1, IRGM) in a sample of Italian SLE patients in order to verify or confirm their possible involvement and relative contribution in the disease.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Two hundred thirty-nine consecutive SLE patients and 278 matched healthy controls were enrolled. Study protocol included complete physical examination, and clinical and laboratory data collection. Nineteen polymorphisms were genotyped by allelic discrimination assays. A case-control association study and a genotype-phenotype correlation were performed.RESULTS: STAT4 was the most associated gene [P = 3 × 10(-7), OR = 2.13 (95% CI: 1.59-2.85)]. IL10 confirmed its association with SLE [rs3024505: P = 0.02, OR = 1.52 (95% CI: 1.07-2.16)]. We describe a novel significant association between HCP5 locus and SLE susceptibility [rs3099844: P = 0.01, OR = 2.06 (95% CI: 1.18-3.6)]. The genotype/phenotype correlation analysis showed several associations including a higher risk to develop pericarditis with STAT4, and an association between HCP5 rs3099844 and anti-Ro/SSA antibodies.CONCLUSIONS: STAT4 and IL10 confirm their association with SLE. We found that some SNPs in PSORS1C1, ATG16L1, IL23R, PTPN2 and MIR146a genes can determine particular disease phenotypes. HCP5 rs3099844 is associated with SLE and with anti-Ro/SSA. This polymorphism has been previously found associated with cardiac manifestations of SLE, a condition related with anti-Ro/SSA antibodies. Thus, our results may provide new insights into SLE pathogenesis.
Comment in    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(24):3785-6.
Erratum in    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 May 5;112(18):E2412.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a fibrotic and autoimmune disease characterized clinically by skin and internal organ fibrosis and vascular damage, and serologically by the presence of circulating autoantibodies. Although etiopathogenesis is not yet well understood, the results of numerous genetic association studies support genetic contributions as an important factor to SSc. In this paper, the major genes of SSc are reviewed. The most recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are taken into account along with robust candidate gene studies. The literature search was performed on genetic association studies of SSc in PubMed between January 2000 and March 2014 while eligible studies generally had over 600 total participants with replication. A few genetic association studies with related functional changes in SSc patients were also included. A total of forty seven genes or specific genetic regions were reported to be associated with SSc, although some are controversial. These genes include HLA genes, STAT4, CD247, TBX21, PTPN22, TNFSF4, IL23R, IL2RA, IL-21, SCHIP1/IL12A, CD226, BANK1, C8orf13-BLK, PLD4, TLR-2, NLRP1, ATG5, IRF5, IRF8, TNFAIP3, IRAK1, NFKB1, TNIP1, FAS, MIF, HGF, OPN, IL-6, CXCL8, CCR6, CTGF, ITGAM, CAV1, MECP2, SOX5, JAZF1, DNASEIL3, XRCC1, XRCC4, PXK, CSK, GRB10, NOTCH4, RHOB, KIAA0319, PSD3 and PSOR1C1. These genes encode proteins mainly involved in immune regulation and inflammation, and some of them function in transcription, kinase activity, DNA cleavage and repair. The discovery of various SSc-associated genes is important in understanding the genetics of SSc and potential pathogenesis that contribute to the development of this disease.
This study examined the hepatoprotective effects of lupeol (1, a major active triterpenoid isolated from Adenophora triphylla var. japonica) against d-galactosamine (GalN) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced fulminant hepatic failure. Mice were orally administered 1 (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg; dissolved in olive oil) 1 h before GalN (800 mg/kg)/LPS (40 μg/kg) treatment. Treatment with GalN/LPS resulted in increased levels of serum alanine aminotransferase, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and interleukin (IL)-6, as well as increased mortality, all of which were attenuated by treatment with 1. In addition, levels of toll-like receptor (TLR)4, myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88, TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-β (TRIF), IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1, and TNF receptor associated factor 6 protein expression were increased by GalN/LPS. These increases, except TRIF, were attenuated by 1. Interestingly, 1 augmented GalN/LPS-mediated increases in the protein expression of IRAK-M, a negative regulator of TLR signaling. Following GalN/LPS treatment, nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-κB and the levels of TNF-α and IL-6 mRNA expression increased, which were attenuated by 1. Together, the present findings suggest that lupeol (1) ameliorates GalN/LPS-induced liver injury, which may be due to inhibition of IRAK-mediated TLR inflammatory signaling.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a prototype of inflammation-associated cancer. Oncoprotein Gankyrin, which mostly increases in HCC, plays a critical role in HCC development and metastasis. However, the exact mechanism of Gankyrin up-regulation in HCC remains unclear. A Gankyrin luciferase reporter was developed to screen a potential regulator for Gankyrin from a list of proinflammatory cytokines, and interleukin (IL)-1β was found as one of its activators. In clinical premalignant and malignant liver disease samples, enhanced IL-1β/interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) signaling accompanied by increased Gankyrin was observed. Lower expression of Gankyrin and phospho-IRAK-1 are favorable prognostic markers for HCC. A similar correlation was observed in the diethylnitrosamine (DEN) model of rat hepatocarcinogenesis. The results from Gankyrin reporter activity, real-time polymerase chain reaction, or immunoblotting further confirmed the up-regulation of Gankyrin by IL-1β/IRAK-1 inflammatory signaling. Moreover, a series of Gankyrin's truncated reporters were constructed, and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) were performed to analyze the properties of Gankyrin promoter. Mechanistically, the core promoter of Gankyrin contains the binding site of nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) family members, which can recruit histone acetyltransferase coactivator E1A-binding protein p300 (p300) or CREB-binding protein (CBP) to promote Gankyrin transcription. Conversely, knockdown of NF-Y, p300, or CBP inhibits Gankyrin expression. IL-1β stimulation causes sequential phosphorylation of IRAK-1, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p300 and enhances recruitment of the p300/CBP/NF-Y complex to Gankyrin promoter. Inhibition of phospho-JNK impairs IL-1β/IRAK-1 signaling-mediated up-regulation of Gankyrin.CONCLUSION: The finding of IL-1β/IRAK-1 signaling promoting Gankyrin expression through JNK and NF-Y/p300/CBP complex provides a fresh view on inflammation-enhanced hepatocarcinogenesis.
In the previous study, the mixture of the rhizome of Anemarrhena asphodeloides (AA, family Liliaceae) and the rhizome of Coptidis chinensis (CC, family Ranunculaceae) (AC-mix) improved TNBS- or oxazolone-induced colitis in mice. Therefore, to investigate its anticolitic mechanism, we measured its effect in acute and chronic DSS-induced colitic mice and investigated its anti-inflammatory mechanism in peritoneal macrophages. AC-mix potently suppressed DSS-induced body weight loss, colon shortening, myeloperoxidase activity, and TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 expressions in acute or chronic DSS-stimulated colitic mice. Among AC-mix ingredients, AA, CC, and their main constituents mangiferin and berberine potently inhibited the expression of proinflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β, as well as the activation of NF-κB in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. AA and mangiferin potently inhibited IRAK phosphorylation, but CC and berberine potently inhibited the binding of LPS to TLR4 on macrophages, as well as the phosphorylation of IRAK1. AC-mix potently inhibited IRAK phosphorylation and LPS binding to TLR4 on macrophages. Based on these findings, AC-mix may ameliorate colitis by the synergistic inhibition of IRAK phosphorylation and LPS binding to TLR4 on macrophages.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore whether polymorphisms in miR-146a, miR-499 and IRAK1 are associated with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis.METHODS: Manual searches performed in the MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were used to identify published articles in which the roles of microRNA (miRNA) and IRAK1 polymorphisms in inflammatory arthritis were determined. A meta-analysis was conducted to investigate associations of the miR-146a rs2910164, miR-499 rs3746444, IRAK1 rs3027898 and IRAK1 rs1059703 polymorphisms with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis.RESULTS: Nine studies containing 1224 patients and 1841 controls were included in the meta-analysis. The meta-analysis revealed no association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs2910164 C allele of miR-146a (odds ratio, OR = 0.974; 95 % confidence interval, CI = 0.810-1.091; p = 0.650). Stratification by ethnicity or disease type revealed no association between the miR-146a C allele and inflammatory arthritis in European, Middle Eastern or Asian patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). However, the meta-analysis revealed an overall association between RA and the miR-499 rs374644 C (OR = 1.123, 95 % CI = 1.019-2.586, p = 0.041); stratification by ethnicity revealed a particular association in Middle Eastern populations (OR = 1.943, 95 % CI = 1.508-2.504, p = 2.7 × 10(-8)). The meta-analysis of IRAK1 polymorphisms revealed an association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs3027898 CC genotype (OR = 2.602, 95 % CI = 1.387-4.879, p = 0.003). An analysis using the homozygote contrast showed the same pattern for the rs3027898 CC genotype (OR = 2.472, 95 % CI = 1.300-4.700, p = 0.006). No association between inflammatory arthritis and the rs1059703 polymorphism was found.CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis suggests that the miR-499 rs374644 and IRAKI rs3027898 polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to inflammatory arthritis.
Xuebijing (XBJ) is a type of traditional Tibetan medicine, and previous pharmacological studies have shown that the ethanol extract is derived from Chuanxiong, Chishao, Danshen and Honghua. Chuanxiong, Chishao, Danshen and Honghua possesses potent anti-inflammatory activity, and has been used in the treatment of inflammatory infectious diseases. In the present study, we investigated the effects of XBJ on pulmonary permeability and lung injury in cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)-induced sepsis in rats. A CLP sepsis model was established for the control and treatment groups, respectively. Approximately 2 h prior to surgery, an amount of 100 mg/kg XBJ injection was administered to the treatment group. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PT-PCR) and western blot analysis were used to examine the expression of Toll-interacting protein (Tollip), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), nuclear factor-κB65 (NF-κB65) and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) in lung tissue. ELISA was applied to detect changes of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-4 (IL-4) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) and von wille-brand factor (vWF) in serum. The number of neutrophils, albumin and total cells in the BAL fluid were measured. For histological analysis, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stains were evaluated. Lung permeability, the wet/dry weight ratio (W/D) and the lung pathology score were determined following the induction of ALI by CLP for 24 h. The results demonstrated that XBJ upregulated Tollip expression and blocked the activity of IRAK1, TLR4, NF-κβ65 and TRAF6. Additionally, the number of neutrophils and total cells were significantly decreased in the XBJ group compared to that in the control group. Lung permeability, the wet/dry weight ratio (W/D) and the lung pathology score were significantly decreased in the XBJ group. The histological results also demonstrated the attenuation effect of XBJ on CLP-induced lung inflammation. The results of the present study indicated that XBJ has a significantly reduced CLP-induced lung permeability by upregulating Tollip expression. The protective effects of XBJ suggest its therapeutic potential in CLP-induced acute lung injury treatment.
Macrophages regulate cell fate decisions during microbial challenges by carefully titrating signaling events activated by innate receptors such as dectin-1 or Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Here, we demonstrate that dectin-1 activation robustly dampens TLR-induced proinflammatory signature in macrophages. Dectin-1 induced the stabilization of β-catenin via spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk)-reactive oxygen species (ROS) signals, contributing to the expression of WNT5A. Subsequently, WNT5A-responsive protein inhibitors of activated STAT (PIAS-1) and suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS-1) mediate the downregulation of IRAK-1, IRAK-4, and MyD88, resulting in decreased expression of interleukin 12 (IL-12), IL-1β, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). In vivo activation of dectin-1 with pathogenic fungi or ligand resulted in an increased bacterial burden of Mycobacteria, Klebsiella, Staphylococcus, or Escherichia, with a concomitant decrease in TLR-triggered proinflammatory cytokines. All together, our study establishes a new role for dectin-1-responsive inhibitory mechanisms employed by virulent fungi to limit the proinflammatory environment of the host.
Ursolic acid, which was isolated from an ethanol extract of Cornus officinalis seed, potently inhibited nuclear factor κ light-chain enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) activation in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Therefore, we investigated the anti-inflammatory mechanism of ursolic acid in LPS-stimulated macrophages and colitic mice. Ursolic acid inhibited phosphorylation of interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)1, TAK1, inhibitor of nuclear factor κB kinase subunit β (IKKβ), and IκBα as well as activation of NF-κB and MAPKs in LPS-stimulated macrophages. Ursolic acid suppressed LPS-stimulated interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, and inducible NO synthetase (iNOS) expression as well as PGE2 and NO levels. Ursolic acid not only inhibited the Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated LPS-mediated shift of macrophages but also reduced the intensity of fluorescent LPS bound to the macrophages transiently transfected with or without MyD88 siRNA. However, ursolic acid did not suppress NF-κB activation in peptidoglycan-stimulated macrophages. Oral administration of ursolic acid significantly inhibited 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colon shortening and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in mice. Ursolic acid also suppressed TNBS-induced COX-2 and iNOS expression as well as NF-κB activation in colon tissues. Ursolic acid (20 mg/kg) also inhibited TNBS-induced IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α by 93, 86, and 85%, respectively (p < 0.05). However, ursolic acid reversed TNBS-mediated downregulation of IL-10 expression to 79% of the normal control group (p < 0.05). On the basis of these findings, ursolic acid may ameliorate colitis by regulating NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways via the inhibition of LPS binding to TLR4 on immune cells.
OBJECTIVE(S): Clinical research characterizing the mechanisms responsible for sex-based outcome differences postinjury remain conflicting. We sought to characterize an X chromosome-linked IRAK-1 (IL-1 receptor-associated kinase) polymorphism as an alternative mechanism responsible for sex differences postinjury. IRAK-1 is key intermediate in the toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway thought to drive inflammation postinjury.METHODS: A prospective cohort study was performed over a 24-month period. Bluntly injured patients requiring intensive care unit admission were enrolled, whereas patients with isolated brain and spinal cord injuries were excluded. Outcomes of interest included multiple organ failure (MOF, Marshall MOD score > 5) and mortality. Logistic regression was utilized to determine the independent risk of poor outcome associated with the IRAK-1 variant after controlling for important differences.RESULTS: In an enrolled cohort of 321 patients, the IRAK-1 variant was common (12.5%). Patients with and without the variant were similar in age, injury severity, and 24hr blood transfusion. After controlling for important confounders, the IRAK1 variant was independently associated with more than eightfold (OR = 8.4, P = 0.005, 95% CI: 1.9-37.1) and 11-fold (OR = 11.8, P = 0.037, 95% CI: 1.1-121) greater risk of MOF and mortality, respectively. These differences were most prominent in men, whereas women heterozygous for the variant demonstrated worse outcome in a dose-dependent fashion.CONCLUSIONS: The IRAK1 polymorphism is a strong independent predictor of MOF and mortality postinjury and represents a common variant with prognostic potential. These data demonstrate the importance of TLR signaling postinjury and supports that a genetic mechanism may drive sex outcome differences postinjury.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: A critical role of the Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4 and its downstream mediators in the pathogenesis of small-for-size liver graft injury has been documented. Recently, the microRNA-146 (miR-146) was identified as a potent negative regulator of the TLR4 signalling pathway. In this study, the role of miR-146a and miR-146b in the attenuation of TLR-4 signalling and small-for-size liver graft injury was investigated.METHODS: The expression levels of miR-146a and miR-146b during small-for-size liver graft injury were studied in vivo. In addition, the effects of miR-146a and miR-146b on the expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6 in the rat macrophage cell line NR8383 and rat liver kupffer cells were studied in vitro. The in vivo effect of miR-146a and miR-146b on small-for-size liver graft injury was studied by the tail vein injection of miR-146a mimics and miR-146b mimics.RESULTS: The levels of miR-146a and miR-146b decreased with a small-for-size liver graft. MiR-146a and miR-146b inhibited IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression by binding to the 3'UTR of IRAK1 or TRAF6, respectively, in the rat macrophage cell line NR8383. The administration of miR-146a mimics and miR-146b mimics prevented liver graft injury in small-for-size liver graft injury via the inactivation of IRAK1 and TRAF6 in vivo.CONCLUSIONS: miR-146a and miR-146b prevent liver injury in small-for-size liver graft injury via the inactivation of IRAK1 and TRAF6.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a prototypic autoimmune disease that affects mainly females. What role the X chromosome plays in the disease has always been an intriguing question. In this study, we examined the genetic variants on the X chromosome through meta-analysis of two genome-wide association studies (GWAS) on SLE on Chinese Han populations. Prominent association signals from the meta-analysis were replicated in 4 additional Asian cohorts, with a total of 5373 cases and 9166 matched controls. We identified a novel variant in PRPS2 on Xp22.3 as associated with SLE with genome-wide significance (rs7062536, OR = 0.84, P = 1.00E-08). Association of the L1CAM-MECP2 region with SLE was reported previously. In this study, we identified independent contributors in this region in NAA10 (rs2071128, OR = 0.81, P = 2.19E-13) and TMEM187 (rs17422, OR = 0.75, P = 1.47E-15), in addition to replicating the association from IRAK1-MECP2 region (rs1059702, OR = 0.71, P = 2.40E-18) in Asian cohorts. The X-linked susceptibility variants showed higher effect size in males than that in females, similar to results from a genome-wide survey of associated SNPs on the autosomes. These results suggest that susceptibility genes identified on the X chromosome, while contributing to disease predisposition, might not contribute significantly to the female predominance of this prototype autoimmune disease.
Our previous studies indicated that zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs) have adjuvant properties to a known allergen ovalbumin (OVA) in Balb/c mice. Therefore, in this study, we focused on the mechanisms involved in adjuvant responses induced by ZnO NPs. The eosinophil counts in the Peyers' patches of intestine and ICAM-1, Cox2 protein expressions were enhanced in the ZnO NPs/OVA group. Following screening of toll-like receptors (TLRs), TLR 2, 4 and 6 were found to be increased. Accordingly, we found that downstream proteins of TLRs such as myeloid differentiation primary response protein-88 (MyD88), IL-1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK 1), and TNFR-associated factor 6 (TRAF 6) were also found to be enhanced in the ZnO NPs/OVA-induced group. These inflammatory responses underlined the critical roles of TLRs in the inflammatory response. ZnO NPs increased the mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokine IL-1β and protein expression of several mediators, including Cox2, PGE2, MMP-9 and finally caspase 1 in macrophages. Another pathway for adjuvant effect is Src which was found to be significantly affected by the activation of p-Lyn, p-Syk, IP3, p-PLC-γ and cAMP. Ca(2+) influx was significantly increased as well in the ZnO NPs/OVA group. These findings demonstrated the differential role of TLRs in regulation of the ZnO NPs-induced adjuvant responses causing the inflammation. We therefore, conclude that ZnO NPs have significant adjuvant effect via following Src kinase and TLRs signaling that ascribed to inflammatory responses due to recruitment and activation of adhesion molecules and inflammatory cells. The adjuvant property of ZnO NPs may help in planning strategies for its therapeutic use.
Sesquiterpenoid tussilagone (TUS) has a variety of pharmacological activities, such as anti-oxidant, anti-cancer, and anti-inflammatory activities. In this study, we investigated the effects of TUS on dendritic cell (DC) functions and the underlying mechanisms. TUS inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced activation of DCs, as shown by decrease in surface molecule expression, cytokine production, cell migration, and allo-T cell activation. In addition, TUS inhibited LPS-induced activation of NF-κB, MAPKs, and IRF-3 signalings in DCs, although it did not directly affect kinase activities of IRAK1/4, TAK1, and IKK, which suggests that TUS might indirectly inhibit TLR signaling in DCs. As a critical mechanism, we showed that TUS activated heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), which degrades heme to immunosuppressive products, such as carbon monoxide and bilirubin. HO-1 inhibitor reversed the inhibitory activity of TUS in DCs. In conclusion, this study suggests that TUS inhibits DC function through the induction of HO-1.
OBJECTIVES: Chikungunya virus causes chronic infection with manifestations of joint pain. Human synovial fibroblasts get infected with CHIKV and could lead to pro-inflammatory responses. MicroRNAs have potentials to regulate the gene expression of various anti-viral and pro-inflammatory genes. The study aims to investigate the role of miR-146a in modulation of inflammatory responses of human synovial fibroblasts by Chikungunya virus.METHODS: To study the role of miR-146a in CHIKV pathogenesis in human synovial cells and underlying inflammatory manifestations, we performed CHIKV infection in primary human synovial fibroblasts. Western blotting, real-time PCR, luciferase reporter assay, overexpression and knockdown of cellular miR-146a strategies have been employed to validate the role of miR-146a in regulation of pro-inflammatory NF-κB pathway.RESULTS: CHIKV infection induced the expression of cellular miR-146a, which resulted into down-regulation of TRAF6, IRAK1, IRAK2 and increased replication of CHIKV in human synovial fibroblasts. Exogenous expression of miR-146a in human synovial fibroblasts led to decreased expression of TRAF6, IRAK1, IRAK2 and decreased replication of CHIKV. Inhibition of cellular miR-146a by anti-miR-146a restored the expression levels of TRAF6, IRAK1 and IRAK2. Downregulation of TRAF6, IRAK1 and IRAK2 led to downstream decreased NF-κB activation through negative feedback loop.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated the mechanism of exploitation of cellular miR-146a by CHIKV in modulating the host antiviral immune response in primary human synovial fibroblasts.
Regulation of hematopoiesis is controlled by microRNAs (miRNAs). In this review, we focus on miR-146a, and its role in regulating normal and malignant hematopoiesis. miR-146a is a negative regulator of immune cell activation by repressing two targets, TRAF6 and IRAK1. Genetic deletion of miR-146a confirmed a role of miR-146a during innate immune signaling as well as for hematopoietic stem cell function. miR-146a is also implicated in the pathogenesis of human myelodysplastic syndromes (MDSs) as it is located within a commonly deleted region on chromosome 5, and miR-146a-deficient mice exhibit features of an MDS-like disease. With new insight into miR-146a through genetic and expression analyses, we highlight and discuss the recent advances in the understanding of miR-146a in physiological hematopoiesis during steady-state and inflammation, as well as in MDS.
PURPOSE: To compare genome-wide DNA methylation profiles according to Chlamydophila psittaci (Cp) infection status and the response to doxycycline treatment in Korean patients with ocular adnexal extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (EMZL).METHODS: Twelve ocular adnexal EMZL cases were classified into two groups (six Cp-positive cases and six Cp-negative cases). Among the 12 cases, eight were treated with doxycycline as first-line therapy, and they were divided into two groups according to their response to the treatment (four doxy-responders and four doxy-nonresponders). The differences in the DNA methylation states of 27,578 methylation sites in 14,000 genes were evaluated using Illumina bead assay technology. We also validated the top-ranking differentially methylated genes (DMGs) with bisulfite direct sequencing or pyrosequencing.RESULTS: The Infinium methylation chip assay revealed 180 DMGs in the Cp-positive group (74 hypermethylated genes and 106 hypomethylated genes) compared to the Cp-negative group. Among the 180 DMGs, DUSP22, which had two significantly hypomethylated loci, was validated, and the correlation was significant for one CpG site (Spearman coefficient=0.6478, p=0.0262). Regarding the response to doxycycline treatment, a total of 778 DMGs were revealed (389 hypermethylated genes and 336 hypomethylated genes in the doxy-responder group). In a subsequent replication study for representative hypomethylated (IRAK1) and hypermethylated (CXCL6) genes, the correlation between the bead chip analysis and pyrosequencing was significant (Spearman coefficient=0.8961 and 0.7619, respectively, p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Ocular adnexal EMZL showed distinct methylation patterns according to Cp infection and the response to doxycycline treatment in this genome-wide methylation study. Among the candidate genes, DUSP22 has a methylation status that was likely attributable to Cp infection. Our data also suggest that the methylation statuses of IRAK1 and CXCL6 may reflect the response to doxycycline treatment.
Comment in    Nat Rev Cancer. 2014 Sep;14(9):578.
Infectious spleen and kidney necrosis virus (ISKNV) is the causative agent of a disease leading to high mortality and economic losses in Chinese perch, Siniperca chuatsi. There is an urgent need to develop an effective vaccine against this fatal disease. In this study, the mcp gene encoding the major capsid protein, the predominant structural component of the iridovirus particles, was cloned into a eukaryotic expression vector pcDNA3.1+, and the recombinant plasmid, designated as pcMCP, was constructed. Expression of the mcp gene was confirmed in transfected cells and muscle tissues of vaccinated fish by RT-PCR, immunodot blot and western blot. Immune response was induced by intramuscular injection of Chinese perch with pcMCP added QCDC adjuvant. The expression levels of type I IFN system genes including IRF-7, IRAK1, Mx and Viperin were up-regulated at 6 h, and reached a peak at 48 h. In addition, there was a second peak of the expression levels of IRF-7 and Mx gene on the 21st day post-vaccination. Before the 21st day post-vaccination, the levels of IgM did not show a significant difference among all groups, but there was a remarkable increase on the 28th day post-vaccination. The relative percent survival (RPS) of Chinese perch vaccinated with pcMCP added QCDC adjuvant was 80% in a challenge trial on the 28th day post-vaccination. Moreover, real-time PCR demonstrated that the levels of viral load in the dead fish of the vaccinated group were significantly higher than those in mock-vaccinated fish. Together, these results indicate that pcMCP is a potential candidate DNA vaccine against ISKNV disease.
The four mammalian Pellinos (Pellinos 1, 2, 3a, and 3b) are E3 ubiquitin ligases that are emerging as critical mediators for a variety of immune signaling pathways, including those activated by Toll-like receptors, the T-cell receptor, and NOD2. It is becoming increasingly clear that each Pellino has a distinct role in facilitating immune receptor signaling. However, the underlying mechanisms by which these highly homologous proteins act selectively in these signaling pathways are not clear. In this study, we investigate whether Pellino substrate recognition contributes to the divergent functions of Pellinos. Substrate recognition of each Pellino is mediated by its noncanonical forkhead-associated (FHA) domain, a well-characterized phosphothreonine-binding module. Pellino FHA domains share very high sequence identity, so a molecular basis for differences in substrate recognition is not immediately apparent. To explore Pellino substrate specificity, we first identify a high-affinity Pellino2 FHA domain-binding motif in the Pellino substrate, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). Analysis of binding of the different Pellinos to a panel of phosphothreonine-containing peptides derived from the IRAK1-binding motif reveals that each Pellino has a distinct phosphothreonine peptide binding preference. We observe a similar binding specificity in the interaction of Pellinos with a number of known Pellino substrates. These results argue that the nonredundant roles that Pellinos play in immune signaling are in part due to their divergent substrate specificities. This new insight into Pellino substrate recognition could be exploited for pharmacological advantage in treating inflammatory diseases that have been linked to the aberrant regulation of Pellinos.
A critical role of the Toll-like receptor(TLR) and its downstream molecules, including IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1(IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor- associated factor 6(TRAF6), in the pathogenesis of liver ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury has been documented. Recently a microRNA, miR-146a, was identified as a potent negative regulator of the TLR signaling pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of miR-146a to attenuate TLR signaling and liver I/R injury in vivo and in vitro. miR-146a was decreased in mice Kupffer cells following hepatic I/R, whereas IRAK1 and TRAF6 increased. Overexpression of miR-146a directly decreased IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression and attenuated the release of proinflammatory cytokines through the inactivation of NF-κB P65 in hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-induced macrophages, RAW264.7 cells. Knockdown experiments demonstrated that IRAK1 and TRAF6 are two potential targets for reducing the release of proinflammatory cytokines. Moreover, co-culture assays indicated that miR-146a decreases the apoptosis of hepatocytes after H/R. In vivo administration of Ago-miR-146a, a stable version of miR-146a in vivo, protected against liver injury in mice after I/R via inactivation of the TLR signaling pathway. We conclude that miR-146a ameliorates liver ischemia/reperfusion injury in vivo and hypoxia/reoxygenation injury in vitro by directly suppressing IRAK1 and TRAF6.
Mangiferin, a main constituent of the root of Anemarrhena asphodeloides and the leaves of Mangifera indica, inhibits NF-κB activation in macrophages. Therefore, we investigated effect of mangiferin on 2,3,4-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in mice and its anti-inflammatory mechanism in lipolysaccharide (LPS)- or peptidoglycan-stimulated mouse peritoneal macrophages. Mangiferin inhibited phosphorylation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) in peptidoglycan- or LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Mangiferin in the presence of SN50 inhibited LPS-stimulated NF-κB activation more potently than mangiferin alone. Mangiferin inhibited interaction of fluorescent p-IRAK1 antibody to LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages, but increased binding of fluorescent IRAK1 antibody. Mangiferin did not influence interaction of fluorescent LPS to toll-like receptor-4 on the macrophages. Molecular peak of mangiferin bound to IRAK1 was detected in the macrophages by mass analysis. Mangiferin (10 μM) inhibited LPS-stimulated expression of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 by 81.0%, 89.5% and 88.3%, respectively, whereas it increased IL-10 expression by 131.8% compared to LPS-nontreated group. Mangiferin furthermore inhibited colon shortening, macroscopic score, and colonic myeloperoxidase activity in TNBS-induced colitic mice. Mangiferin inhibited TNBS-induced IRAK1 phosphorylation and NF-κB activation. Mangiferin suppressed TNBS-induced up-regulation of cyclooxygenase-2 and inducible NO synthase. Furthermore, mangiferin (20mg/kg) significantly inhibited TNF-α by 78%, IL-1β by 82%, and IL-6 expressions by 88% (P<0.05), but induced IL-10 expression to 79% of the normal control group (P<0.05). Based on these findings, mangiferin may ameliorate inflammatory diseases such as colitis by regulating NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways through the inhibition of IRAK1 phosphorylation.
MicroRNAs have been shown to be important regulators of immune homeostasis as patients with aberrant microRNA expression appeared to be more susceptible to autoimmune diseases. We recently found that miR-146a was up-regulated in activated B cells in response to rat acetylcholine receptor (AChR) α-subunit 97-116 peptide, and this up-regulation was significantly attenuated by AntagomiR-146a. Our data also demonstrated that silencing miR-146a with its inhibitor AntagomiR-146a effectively ameliorated clinical myasthenic symptoms in mice with ongoing experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis. Furthermore, multiple defects were observed after miR-146a was knocked down in B cells, including decreased anti-R97-116 antibody production and class switching, reduced numbers of plasma cells, memory B cells and B-1 cells, and weakened activation of B cells. Previously, miR-146a has been identified as a nuclear factor-κB-dependent gene and predicted to base pair with the tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) genes to regulate the immune response. However, our study proved that miR-146a inhibition had no effect on the expression of TRAF6 and IRAK1 in B cells. This result suggests that the function of miR-146a in B cells does not involve these two target molecules. We conclude that silencing miR-146a exerts its therapeutic effects by influencing the B-cell functions that contribute to the autoimmune pathogenesis of myasthenia gravis.
Free zinc is required for proper lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated signaling, but potential sites of action in the pathway have not been defined. In this work, we provide in vitro and ex vivo evidence that zinc is not required for phosphorylation or ubiquitylation of IRAK1, a kinase functioning early in the TLR4 pathway. However, degradation of ubiquitylated IRAK1 occurred via a zinc-dependent, proteasome-independent pathway. These results provide evidence of a novel site of action for zinc during TLR4-mediated inflammatory responses.
Epidermal and mucosal epithelial cells are integral to host defense. They not only act as a physical barrier but also utilize pattern recognition receptors, such as the Toll-like receptors (TLRs), to detect and respond to pathogens. Members of the interferon regulatory factor (IRF) family of transcription factors are key components of TLR signaling as they impart specificity to downstream responses. Although IRF6 is a critical regulator of epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation, its role in TLR signaling has not previously been addressed. We show here that IRF6 is activated by IRAK1 as well as by MyD88 but not by TRIF or TBK1. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments further demonstrated that IRF6 can interact with IRAK1. Gene silencing in epithelial cells along with gene promoter reporter assays showed that IRAK1 mediates TLR2-inducible CCL5 gene expression at least in part by promoting IRF6 activation. Conversely, IRAK1 regulated CXCL8 gene expression independently of IRF6, thus identifying a molecular mechanism by which TLR2 signaling differentially regulates the expression of specific chemokines in epithelial cells. Bioinformatics analysis and mutagenesis-based experiments identified Ser-413 and Ser-424 as key regulatory sites in IRF6. Phosphomimetic mutation of these residues resulted in greatly enhanced IRF6 dimerization and trans-activator function. Collectively, our findings suggest that, in addition to its importance for epithelial barrier function, IRF6 also contributes to host defense by providing specificity to the regulation of inflammatory chemokine expression by TLR2 in epithelial cells.
PURPOSE: Chronic inflammation and dysregulation of circadian rhythmicity are involved in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can regulate inflammation and circadian clock machinery. We tested the hypothesis that altered daily rhythm of miR-146a expression in diabetes contributes to retinal inflammation.METHODS: Nondiabetic and STZ-induced diabetic rats kept in 12/12 light/dark cycle were killed every 2 hours over a 72-hour period. Human retinal endothelial cells (HRECs) were synchronized with dexamethasone. Expression of miR-146a, IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), IL-1β, VEGF and ICAM-1, as well as clock genes was examined by real-time PCR and Western blot. To modulate expression levels of miR-146a, mimics and inhibitors were used.RESULTS: Diabetes inhibited amplitude of negative arm (per1) and enhanced amplitude of the positive arm (bmal1) of clock machinery in retina. In addition to clock genes, miR-146a and its target gene IRAK1 also exhibited daily oscillations in antiphase; however, these patterns were lost in diabetic retina. This loss of rhythmic pattern was associated with an increase in ICAM-1, IL-β, and VEGF expression. Human retinal endothelial cells had robust miR-146a expression that followed circadian oscillation pattern; however, HRECs isolated from diabetic donors had reduced miR-146a amplitude but increased amplitude of IRAK1 and ICAM-1. In HRECs, miR-146a mimic or inhibitor caused 1.6- and 1.7-fold decrease or 1.5- and 1.6-fold increase, respectively, in mRNA and protein expression levels of ICAM-1 after 48 hours.CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes-induced dysregulation of daily rhythms of miR-146a and inflammatory pathways under miR-146a control have potential implications for the development of diabetic retinopathy.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) is a crucial signaling kinase in the immune system, involved in Toll-like receptor signaling. Vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) is a central player in cell migration that regulates actin polymerization and connects signaling events to cytoskeletal remodeling. A VASP–IRAK1 interaction is thought to be important in controlling macrophage migration in response to protein kinase C-ε activation. We show that the monomeric VASP EVH1 domain directly binds to the 168WPPPP172 motif in the IRAK1 undefined domain (IRAK1-UD) with moderate affinity (KDApp = 203 ± 3 μM). We further show that this motif adopts distinct cis and trans isomers for the Trp168–Pro169 peptide bond with nearly equal populations, and that binding to the VASP EVH1 domain is specific for the trans isomer, coupling binding to isomerization. Nuclear magnetic resonance line shape analysis and tryptophan fluorescence experiments reveal the complete kinetics and thermodynamics of the binding reaction, showing diffusion-limited binding to the trans isomer followed by slow, isomerization-dependent binding. We further demonstrate that the peptidyl-prolyl isomerase cyclophilin A (CypA) catalyzes isomerization of the Trp168–Pro169 peptide bond and accelerates binding of the IRAK1-UD to the VASP EVH1 domain. We propose that binding of IRAK1 to tetrameric VASP is regulated by avidity through the assembly of IRAK1 onto receptor-anchored signaling complexes and that an isomerase such as CypA may modulate IRAK1 signaling in vivo. These studies demonstrate a direct interaction between IRAK1 and VASP and suggest a potential mechanism for how this interaction might be regulated by both assembly of IRAK1 onto an activated signaling complex and PPIase enzymes.
Thymosin β4 (Tβ4), a G-actin-sequestering peptide, improves neurological outcome in rat models of neurological injury. Tissue inflammation results from neurological injury, and regulation of the inflammatory response is vital for neurological recovery. The innate immune response system, which includes the Toll-like receptor (TLR) proinflammatory signaling pathway, regulates tissue injury. We hypothesized that Tβ4 regulates the TLR proinflammatory signaling pathway. Because oligodendrogenesis plays an important role in neurological recovery, we employed an in vitro primary rat embryonic cell model of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) and a mouse N20.1 OPC cell line to measure the effects of Tβ4 on the TLR pathway. Cells were grown in the presence of Tβ4, ranging from 25 to 100 ng/ml (RegeneRx Biopharmaceuticals Inc., Rockville, MD), for 4 days. Quantitative real-time PCR data demonstrated that Tβ4 treatment increased expression of microRNA-146a (miR-146a), a negative regulator the TLR signaling pathway, in these two cell models. Western blot analysis showed that Tβ4 treatment suppressed expression of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), two proinflammatory cytokines of the TLR signaling pathway. Transfection of miR-146a into both primary rat embryonic OPCs and mouse N20.1 OPCs treated with Tβ4 demonstrated an amplification of myelin basic protein (MBP) expression and differentiation of OPC into mature MBP-expressing oligodendrocytes. Transfection of anti-miR-146a nucleotides reversed the inhibitory effect of Tβ4 on IRAK1 and TRAF6 and decreased expression of MBP. These data suggest that Tβ4 suppresses the TLR proinflammatory pathway by up-regulating miR-146a.
The TNF-α expression-inhibitory effect of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) isolated from kimchi were measured in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Among the LAB evaluated, Lactobacillus plantarum CLP-0611 inhibited the IL-1β and IL-6 expression, as well as the NF-κB and AP1 activation in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Therefore, we investigated its inhibitory effect on 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in mice. TNBS significantly induced colon shortening, as well as myeloperoxidase activity and macroscopic score. Oral administration of CLP-0611 significantly reduced TNBS-induced body weight loss, colon shortening, myeloperoxidase activity, IRAK-1 phosphorylation, NF-κB and MAP kinase (p38, ERK, JNK) activation, and iNOS and COX-2 expression. CLP-0611 also inhibited TNBS-induced expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6. However, IL-10 expression was induced. CLP-0611 also induced the production of M2 macrophage markers (IL-10, arginase I and CD206). Based on these findings, CLP-0611 inhibits TLR-4-linked NF-κB and MAPK signaling pathways and polarizes M1 to M2-like macrophages, thus ameliorating colitis.
Author information:(1)State Drug Clinical Trial Agency, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, Jiangxi, China. Corresponding author: Qian Kejian, Email: qkj0607@sohu.com.
Our previous work has demonstrated the roles played by L-type Voltage Gated Calcium Channels (VGCC) in regulating Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tb) survival and pathogenesis. Here we decipher mechanisms and pathways engaged by the pathogen to regulate VGCC expression in macrophages. We show that M. tb and its antigen Rv3416 use phospho-CREB (pCREB), Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS), Protein Kinase C (PKC) and Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) to modulate VGCC expression in macrophages. siRNA mediated knockdown of MyD88, IRAK1, IRAK2 or TRAF6 significantly inhibited antigen mediated VGCC expression. Inhibiting Protein Kinase C (PKC) or MEK-ERK1/2 further increased VGCC expression. Interestingly, inhibiting intracellular calcium release upregulated antigen mediated VGCC expression, while inhibiting extracellular calcium influx had no significant effect. siRNA mediated knockdown of transcription factors c-Jun, SOX5 and CREB significantly inhibited Rv3416 mediated VGCC expression. A dynamic reciprocal cross-regulation between ROS and pCREB was observed that in turn governed VGCC expression with ROS playing a limiting role in the process. Further dissection of the mechanisms such as the interplay between ROS and pCREB would improve our understanding of the regulation of VGCC expression during M. tb infection.
This study examined the role of interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) and protein kinase C (PKC) in oxidized LDL (Ox-LDL)-induced monocyte IL-1β production. In THP1 cells, Ox-LDL induced time-dependent secretory IL-1β and IRAK1 activity; IRAK4, IRAK3, and CD36 protein expression; PKCδ-JNK1 phosphorylation; and AP-1 activation. IRAK1/4 siRNA and inhibitor (INH)-attenuated Ox-LDL induced secreted IL-1β and pro-IL-1β mRNA and pro-IL-1β and mature IL-1β protein expression, respectively. Diphenyleneiodonium chloride (NADPH oxidase INH) and N-acetylcysteine (free radical scavenger) attenuated Ox-LDL-induced reactive oxygen species generation, caspase-1 activity, and pro-IL-1β and mature IL-1β expression. Ox-LDL-induced secretory IL-1β production was abrogated in the presence of JNK INH II, Tanshinone IIa, Ro-31-8220, Go6976, Rottlerin, and PKCδ siRNA. PKCδ siRNA attenuated the Ox-LDL-induced increase in IRAK1 kinase activity, JNK1 phosphorylation, and AP-1 activation. In THP1 macrophages, CD36, toll-like receptor (TLR)2, TLR4, TLR6, and PKCδ siRNA prevented Ox-LDL-induced PKCδ and IRAK1 activation and IL-1β production. Enhanced Ox-LDL and IL-1β in systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) patient plasma demonstrated positive correlation with each other and with disease severity scores. Ox-LDL-containing plasma induced PKCδ and IRAK1 phosphorylation and IL-1β production in a CD36-, TLR2-, TLR4-, and TLR6-dependent manner in primary human monocytes. Results suggest involvement of CD36, TLR2, TLR4, TLR6, and the PKCδ-IRAK1-JNK1-AP-1 axis in Ox-LDL-induced IL-1β production.
Mutations in Toll-like receptor (TLR) and myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MYD88) genes have been found in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) at low frequency. We analyzed the incidence, clinicobiological characteristics, and outcome of patients with TLR/MYD88 mutations in 587 CLL patients. Twenty-three patients (3.9%) had mutations, 19 in MYD88 (one with concurrent IRAK1 mutation), 2 TLR2 (one with concomitant TLR6 mutation), 1 IRAK1, and 1 TLR5. No mutations were found in IRAK2 and IRAK4. TLR/MYD88-mutated CLL overexpressed genes of the nuclear factor κB pathway. Patients with TLR/MYD88 mutations were significantly younger (83% age ≤50 years) than those with no mutations. TLR/MYD88 mutations were the most frequent in young patients. Patients with mutated TLR/MYD88 CLL had a higher frequency of mutated IGHV and low expression of CD38 and ZAP-70. Overall survival (OS) was better in TLR/MYD88-mutated than unmutated patients in the whole series (10-year OS, 100% vs 62%; P = .002), and in the subset of patients age ≤50 years (100% vs 70%; P = .02). In addition, relative OS of TLR/MYD88-mutated patients was similar to that in the age- and gender-matched population. In summary, TLR/MYD88 mutations identify a population of young CLL patients with favorable outcome.
Super-low-dose endotoxemia in experimental animals and humans is linked to low-grade chronic inflammatory diseases. However, the underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms are not well understood. In this study, we examined the effects of a super-low dose of LPS on low-grade inflammation in macrophages as well as underlying mechanisms. We observed that a super-low dose of LPS induces mitochondrial fission and cell necroptosis in primary murine macrophages, dependent upon interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK-1). Mechanistically, our study reveals that a super-low dose of LPS causes protein ubiquitination and degradation of mitofusin 1 (Mfn1), a molecule required for maintaining proper mitochondrial fusion. A super-low dose of LPS also leads to dephosphorylation and activation of Drp1, a molecule responsible for mitochondrial fission and cell necroptosis. Furthermore, we demonstrated that a super-low dose of LPS activates receptor interacting protein 3 kinase (RIP3), a key molecule critical for the assembly of the necrosome complex, the initiation of Drp1 dephosphorylation, and necroptosis. The effects of a super-low dose of LPS are abolished in macrophages harvested from IRAK-1-deficient mice. Taken together, our study identified a novel molecular pathway that leads to cellular stress and necroptosis in macrophages challenged with a super-low dose of endotoxin. This may reconcile low-grade inflammation often associated with low-grade endotoxemia.
The ligation of interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R) or tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1) induces the recruitment of adaptor proteins and their concomitant ubiquitination to the proximal receptor signaling complex, respectively. Such are upstream signaling events of IKK that play essential roles in NF-κB activation. Thus, the discovery of a substance that would modulate the recruitment of key proximal signaling elements at the upstream level of IKK has been impending in this field of study. Here, we propose that brazilin, an active compound of Caesalpinia sappan L. (Leguminosae), is a potent NF-κB inhibitor that selectively disrupts the formation of the upstream IL-1R signaling complex. Analysis of upstream signaling events revealed that brazilin markedly abolished the IL-1β-induced polyubiquitination of IRAK1 and its interaction with IKK-γ counterpart. Notably, pretreatment of brazilin drastically interfered the recruitment of the receptor-proximal signaling components including IRAK1/4 and TRAF6 onto MyD88 in IL-1R-triggerd NF-κB activation. Interestingly, brazilin did not affect the TNF-induced RIP1 ubiquitination and the recruitment of RIP1 and TRAF2 to TNFR1, suggesting that brazilin is effective in selectively suppressing the proximal signaling complex formation of IL-1R, but not that of TNFR1. Moreover, our findings suggest that such a disruption of IL-1R-proximal complex formation by brazilin is not mediated by affecting the heterodimerization of IL-1R and IL-1RAcP. Taken together, the results suggest that the anti-IKK activity of brazilin is induced by targeting IKK upstream signaling components and subsequently disrupting proximal IL-1 receptor signaling complex formation.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNA that modulate the expression of multiple target genes at the post-transcriptional level. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in pre-miRNAs can alter miRNA expression, and polymorphism in target molecules can affect binding to target mRNA. Studies have shown an association between miR-146a gene polymorphism and autoimmune diseases. A target for miR-146a is IRAK1. We studied the SNPs of miRNA-146 and IRAK1 to see their association with susceptibility to juvenile idiopathic arthritis-enthesitis-related arthritis (JIA-ERA). One hundred and fifty patients with JIA-ERA (ILAR criteria) were included in the study. A total of 216 blood donors (201 male) with a mean age of 30.5 years served as controls. miR-146a (rs2910164) and its target IRAK1 (rs1059703) at exon-12 region and IRAK1 (rs3027898) at 3'UTR polymorphisms were analyzed using PCR-RFLP method. Among 150 patients, 133 were males and the mean age at onset of disease was 11 (4-16) years, mean disease duration was 4.5 (0.3-12) years. Twenty-two had uveitis and 21 had positive family history of spondyloarthropathy, 73 had enthesitis, 75 had inflammatory back pain, and all had arthritis. HLA B27 was present in 116 patients. Genotype frequency of miR-146a gene was in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in healthy controls. The genotype frequency for miR-146a was different in controls and patients [GG (51.85 vs. 50.0 %), GC (42.13 vs. 37.29 %) and CC (6.02 vs. 12.71 %), OR = 2.18; 95 % CI 1.02-4.68; p value = 0.0418]. The allele frequencies of IRAK1 (rs1059703) and IRAK1 (rs3027898) in males and genotype frequency in females were similar in controls and patients. The C allele of IRAK1 (rs1059703) was in linkage disequilibrium with T allele of IRAK1 (rs3027898). The CC genotype of the miR-146a rs2910164 polymorphism was significantly associated with the susceptibility to JIA-ERA.
Author information:(1)Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina López-Neyra, CSIC, Granada, Spain. anamaort@ipb.csic.es.
Endotoxemia is caused by excessive inflammation, but the immune system has various mechanisms to avoid collateral organ damage in endotoxemia. A handful of reports have shown that innate immune responses are suppressed by the adaptive immune system. However, the molecular mechanism by which adaptive immune cells suppress innate inflammatory responses is not clear. Here, we report that T cells are shown to interact with macrophages at the early stage of enodotoxemia and to prolong survival of mice through controlling TNF and IL-10 levels by macrophage CD40 stimulation. The cross-talk between CD40 and toll-like receptor (TLR4) signaling first mediates IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) nuclear translocation and its binding to the IL-10 gene promoter in macrophages, without interfering with the NFκB pathway. IL-10 is then detected by macrophages in an autocrine fashion to destabilize Tnfa mRNA. To induce IRAK1-mediated IL-10 expression, signals from both CD40 and TLR4 are essential. CD40 signaling induces IRAK1 sumoylation in the presence of TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) and intracellular isoform of osteopontin (iOPN) whereas TLR4 signaling provides IFN regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) as a chaperone for sumoylated IRAK1 nuclear translocation. Interaction of T cells with macrophages was observed in the spleen in vivo after endotoxemia induction with LPS injection. Our study demonstrates a mechanistic basis for the immunosuppressive role of macrophage CD40 in LPS endotoxemia.
MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) acts as a pivotal regulatory molecule in immune response and various diseases, such as carcinoma and autoimmune diseases. Growing evidences have demonstrated the association of miR-146a gene single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with risk of several diseases, but no genetic relevance studies of miR-146a gene polymorphisms to sepsis have been reported by now. Our study has analyzed the association of sepsis with two functional miR-146a gene SNPs rs2910164 G/C and rs57095329 A/G in a Chinese Han population (226 sepsis cases; 206 healthy controls). Our results indicated a higher prevalence of the miR-146a gene SNP rs2910164 C allele and CC genotype in patients with severe sepsis (rs2910164G versus rs2910164C: P = 0.0029, odds ratio (OR) = 1.664; GG+GC versus CC: P = 0.0045, OR = 1.947). Neither the genotype nor the allele in rs57095329 showed significant differences between the septic cases and the controls (P = 0.5901 and 0.3580, resp.), and no significant difference was observed in the subgroups. In addition, we confirmed that the two SNPs rs2910164 and rs57095329 could functionally affect the miR-146a expression levels and the reduction of miR146a was accompanied with the upregulation of the expression levels of TRAF-6 and IRAK-1 in severe sepsis patients. This present study might provide valuable clinical evidence that miR-146a gene polymorphism rs2910164 is associated with the risk of severe sepsis.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of oral supplementation with L-glutamine plus L-alanine (GLN+ALA), both in the free form and L-alanyl-L-glutamine dipeptide (DIP) in endotoxemic mice.METHODS: B6.129 F2/J mice were subjected to endotoxemia (Escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide [LPS], 5 mg/kg, LPS group) and orally supplemented for 48 h with either L-glutamine (1 g/kg) plus L-alanine (0.61 g/kg) (GLN+ALA-LPS group) or 1.49 g/kg DIP (DIP-LPS group). Plasma glutamine, cytokines, and lymphocyte proliferation were measured. Liver and skeletal muscle glutamine, glutathione (GSH), oxidized GSH (GSSG), tissue lipoperoxidation (TBARS), and nuclear factor (NF)-κB-interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1)-Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 pathway also were determined.RESULTS: Endotoxemia depleted plasma (by 71%), muscle (by 44%), and liver (by 49%) glutamine concentrations (relative to the control group), which were restored in both GLN+ALA-LPS and DIP-LPS groups (P < 0.05). Supplemented groups reestablished GSH content, intracellular redox status (GSSG/GSH ratio), and TBARS concentration in muscle and liver (P < 0.05). T- and B-lymphocyte proliferation increased in supplemented groups compared with controls and LPS group (P < 0.05). Tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1 β, and IL-10 increased in LPS group but were attenuated by the supplements (P < 0.05). Endotoxemic mice exhibited higher muscle gene expression of components of the NF-κB pathway, with the phosphorylation of IκB kinase-α/β. These returned to basal levels (relative to the control group) in both GLN+ALA-LPS and DIP-LPS groups (P < 0.05). Higher mRNA of IRAK1 and MyD88 were observed in muscle of LPS group compared with the control and supplemented groups (P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: Oral supplementations with GLN+ALA or DIP are effective in attenuating oxidative stress and the proinflammatory responses induced by endotoxemia in mice.
PURPOSE: To explore whether IRAK1 and IRAK4 are involved in the pathogenesis of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) disease.METHODS: Thirty-nine VKH patients and thirty-two healthy controls were included in this study. The mRNA levels of IRAK1 and IRAK4 from active VKH patients, inactive VKH patients, and normal controls in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were detected using real-time quantitative PCR. CD4(+)T cells were purified from PBMCs obtained from active VKH patients and normal controls. The effect of IRAK1/4 inhibition on CD4(+)T cell proliferation following stimulation with IL-18 or IL-1β was measured using a modified MTT assay. CD4(+)T cell expression of IFN-γ and IL-17 were detected by flow cytometry (FCM) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The effect of IRAK1/4 inhibition on NF-κB, STAT1, and STAT3 activation was detected by FCM.RESULTS: The mRNA levels of IRAK1 and IRAK4 were both significantly increased in active VKH patients compared to inactive VKH patients and healthy controls. No difference in the IRAK1 or IRAK4 mRNA level could be detected between inactive patients and healthy controls. After incubation with IRAK1/4 inhibitor, the proliferation of CD4(+)T cells was inhibited both in the active VKH patients and in the healthy controls. IRAK1/4 inhibition was also associated with a decreased expression of IFN-γ and IL-17. Phosphorylation of NF-κB, STAT1, and STAT3 in CD4(+)T from healthy controls was significantly decreased after inhibition of IRAK1/4.CONCLUSIONS: High mRNA levels of IRAK1 and IRAK4 correlated with VKH disease activity. IRAK1 and IRAK4 play a role in the activation and proliferation of CD4(+)T cells and the higher expression observed in VKH may contribute to the pathogenesis of this blinding condition.
BACKGROUND: Uromodulin (Tamm-Horsfall protein) is the most abundant urinary protein in healthy individuals. Despite 60 years of research, its physiological role remains rather elusive. Familial juvenile hyperuricemic nephropathy and medullary cystic kidney disease Type 2 are autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial nephropathies characterized by gouty arthritis and progressive renal insufficiency, caused by uromodulin (UMOD) mutations. The aim of this study was to compare the cellular effects of mutant and wild-type UMOD.METHODS: Wild-type UMOD cDNA was cloned from human kidney cDNA into pcDNA3 expression vector. A mutant UMOD construct, containing the previously reported mutation, V273, was created by in vitro mutagenesis. Transient and stable transfection studies were performed in human embryonic kidney cells and mouse distal convoluted tubular cells, respectively. Expression was evaluated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blot and immunofluorescence. Oligosaccharide cleavage by glycosidases was performed to characterize different forms of UMOD. Nuclear translocation of P65 and degradation of IκBα and IRAK1 in response to interleukin (IL)-1β were used to evaluate the effects of wild-type and mutant UMOD on the IL-1R-NFκB pathway.RESULTS: The mutant protein was shown to be retained in the endoplasmic reticulum and was not excreted to the cell medium, as opposed to the wild-type protein. NFκB activation in cells expressing mutant UMOD was similar to that of untransfected cells. In contrast, cells over-expressing wild-type UMOD showed markedly reduced NFκB activation.CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that UMOD may have a physiologic function related to its inhibitory effect on the NFκB pathway.
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the leading genetically complex and heterogeneous disorder that is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. The underlying risk factors remain largely unclear for this heterogeneous disorder. In recent years, high throughput methodologies, such as genome-wide linkage analysis (GWL), genome-wide association (GWA) studies, and genome-wide expression profiling (GWE), have led to the identification of several candidate genes associated with AD. However, due to lack of consistency within their findings, an integrative approach is warranted. Here, we have designed a rank based gene prioritization approach involving convergent analysis of multi-dimensional data and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network modelling.RESULTS: Our approach employs integration of three different AD datasets- GWL,GWA and GWE to identify overlapping candidate genes ranked using a novel cumulative rank score (SR) based method followed by prioritization using clusters derived from PPI network. SR for each gene is calculated by addition of rank assigned to individual gene based on either p value or score in three datasets. This analysis yielded 108 plausible AD genes. Network modelling by creating PPI using proteins encoded by these genes and their direct interactors resulted in a layered network of 640 proteins. Clustering of these proteins further helped us in identifying 6 significant clusters with 7 proteins (EGFR, ACTB, CDC2, IRAK1, APOE, ABCA1 and AMPH) forming the central hub nodes. Functional annotation of 108 genes revealed their role in several biological activities such as neurogenesis, regulation of MAP kinase activity, response to calcium ion, endocytosis paralleling the AD specific attributes. Finally, 3 potential biochemical biomarkers were found from the overlap of 108 AD proteins with proteins from CSF and plasma proteome. EGFR and ACTB were found to be the two most significant AD risk genes.CONCLUSIONS: With the assumption that common genetic signals obtained from different methodological platforms might serve as robust AD risk markers than candidates identified using single dimension approach, here we demonstrated an integrated genomic convergence approach for disease candidate gene prioritization from heterogeneous data sources linked to AD.
IRAK4 is a central kinase in innate immunity, but the role of its kinase activity is controversial. The mechanism of activation for IRAK4 is currently unknown, and little is known about the role of IRAK4 kinase in cytokine production, particularly in different human cell types. We show IRAK4 autophosphorylation occurs by an intermolecular reaction and that autophosphorylation is required for full catalytic activity of the kinase. Phosphorylation of any two of the residues Thr-342, Thr-345, and Ser-346 is required for full activity, and the death domain regulates the activation of IRAK4. Using antibodies against activated IRAK4, we demonstrate that IRAK4 becomes phosphorylated in human cells following stimulation by IL-1R and Toll-like receptor agonists, which can be blocked pharmacologically by a dual inhibitor of IRAK4 and IRAK1. Interestingly, in dermal fibroblasts, although complete inhibition of IRAK4 kinase activity does not inhibit IL-1-induced IL-6 production, NF-κB, or MAPK activation, there is complete ablation of these processes in IRAK4-deficient cells. In contrast, the inhibition of IRAK kinase activity in primary human monocytes reduces R848-induced IL-6 production with minimal effect on NF-κB or MAPK activation. Taken together, these studies define the mechanism of IRAK4 activation and highlight the differential role of IRAK4 kinase activity in different human cell types as well as the distinct roles IRAK4 scaffolding and kinase functions play.
There are no antivirals or vaccines available to treat Enterovirus 71 (EV71) infections. Although the type I interferon response, elicited upon virus infection, is critical to establishing host antiviral innate immunity, EV71 fails to induce this response efficiently. Here we provide new insights into potential anti-EV71 therapy by showing that neutralization of EV71-induced miR-146a prevents death in mice by restarting the production of type I interferon. EV71 infection upregulates miR-146a, which targets IRAK1 and TRAF6 involved in TLR signalling and type I interferon production. We further identify AP1 as being responsible for the EV71-induced expression of miR-146a. Surprisingly, knocking out miR-146a or neutralizing virus-induced miR-146a by specific antagomiR restores expressions of IRAK1 and TRAF6, augments IFNβ production, inhibits viral propagation and improves survival in the mouse model. Our results suggest that enterovirus-induced miR-146a facilitates viral pathogenesis by suppressing IFN production and provide a clue to developing preventive and therapeutic strategies for enterovirus infections.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) preconditioning is a powerful neuroprotective phenomenon by which an injurious stimulus renders the brain resistant to a subsequent damaging ischemic insult. The LPS response gene (Lrg) is a recently identified gene in human dental pulp cells treated with LPS. However, the role and mechanism of Lrg in brain ischemia injury have not yet been demonstrated. Here, we sought to determine whether Lrg participates in LPS preconditioning-induced brain ischemia injury. The Lrg protein accumulates in brain tissue after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Furthermore, knockdown of Lrg by small interfering RNA (siRNA) significantly increased the infarct size of brain injury. In addition, we investigated the mechanism of Lrg in brain ischemia injury. Lrg-siRNA could regulate inflammatory cytokine expression. Moreover, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) and nuclear factor Kappa B (NF-κB) p65 protein levels were significantly increased by Lrg-siRNA in mice after MCAO. Conversely, interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) protein level was decreased by Lrg-siRNA. Taken together, these results suggest that Lrg regulates the expression of inflammatory cytokines in LPS preconditioning-induced brain ischemia injury via the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway. Lrg may therefore serve as a novel therapeutic target for brain ischemia injury.
Histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACI) valproic acid (VPA) is a promising drug, currently in clinical phase 2, for the therapy of advanced/poorly differentiated thyroid cancer. The nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) pathway is constitutively activated in most tumors, including thyroid carcinomas; this often contributes to aggressive tumor growth and therapeutic resistance. We hypothesized that VPA could be useful to decrease NF-κB activity in human thyroid cancer cells. To clarify this, we treated the highly progressive thyroid cancer cell line BHT-101 with VPA (1.0-3.0 mM) for 48 h. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Western blot were used to measure expression of NF-κB-regulatory genes and proteins. NF-κB p50 activity was measured using an ELISA-based colorimetric transcription factor assay kit. We found that VPA significantly and dose-dependently impaired NF-κB activity reducing DNA binding activity of NF-κB p50 subunit by 30% at 1 mM, 40% at 1.5 mM, and 70% at 3 mM. Expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) protein, an upstream mediator of NF-κB activation, was reduced by ̴30% at 1 and 1.5 mM. Furthermore, 3 mM VPA treatment significantly decreased expressions of IRAK-1, phospho-IκBα and NF-κB p50 subunit protein by ̴ 50%. This is the first study to demonstrate that VPA decreases NF-κB activity in a progressive thyroid cancer cell line. Intriguingly, 1mM of VPA, a clinically safe dose in the therapeutic range for epilepsy, was sufficient to reduce NF-κB activity. Thus, VPA may be a promising agent to overcome chemoresistance in cancer therapy and to improve therapeutic efficiency.
OBJECTIVE: Circulating anti-β2-glycoprotein I (ABGPI) antibodies are associated with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) and induce the expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules and proinflammatory cytokines by endothelial cells. Our aim is to study a transcriptional activation pathway of the innate immune system through the cellular signalling cascade triggered by receptors Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) of endothelial cells after the exposure of these cells to seropositive ABGPI human serum obtained from PAD patients.METHODS: We obtained serum samples from PAD patients and controls without PAD. ABGPI serum titer was detected using indirect immunofluorescence. Our sample was stratified into three groups: group I (PAD and ABGPI titer ≥1:100; n = 15), group II (PAD and ABGPI titer <1:100; n = 15), and control participants (no PAD; n = 15). All serum samples were incubated with human aortic endothelial cell (HAEC) culture. Genomic expression of TLR2 and TLR4 receptors and their shared intracellular signalling molecules, myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88), and interleukin (IL)-1 receptor-associated kinase (1IRAK1), were measured after the exposure of HAECs to each serum.RESULTS: HAEC genomic expression of TLR4 was higher after the exposure to group I serum than after the exposure to group II serum (log10×10-relative quantification [RQ]: 1.80 ± 0.42 vs 1.37 ± 0.39; P = .01) or control serum (log10×10-RQ: 1.80 ± 0.42 vs 1.09 ± 0.26; P < .01). TLR4 expression was higher in group II than in the control group (log10×10-RQ: 1.37 ± 0.39 vs 1.09 ± 0.26; P = .04). TLR4 expression correlated with MyD88 (r = 0.54; P < .01) and IRAK1 (r = 0.55; P < .01) expression. We recorded a positive correlation between MyD88 and IRAK1 genomic expression (r = 0.58; P < .01).CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that serum from PAD patients with elevated ABGPI antibodies induces a genomic overexpression of TLR4 and its cellular signalling molecules in endothelial cells.
Interferon-gamma producing CD4(+) T (Th1) cells and IL-17-producing CD4(+) T (Th17) cells are involved in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis. Therefore, the development of treatment strategies controlling the generation and expansion of these effector cells is of high interest. Frankincense, the resin from trees of the genus Boswellia, and particularly its prominent bioactive compound acetyl-11-keto-β-boswellic acid (AKBA), have potent anti-inflammatory properties. Here, we demonstrate that AKBA is able to reduce the differentiation of human CD4(+) T cells to Th17 cells, while slightly increasing Th2- and Treg-cell differentiation. Furthermore, AKBA reduces the IL-1β-triggered IL-17A release of memory Th17 cells. AKBA may affect IL-1β signaling by preventing IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 phosphorylation and subsequently decreasing STAT3 phosphorylation at Ser727, which is required for Th17-cell differentiation. The effects of AKBA on Th17 differentiation and IL-17A release make the compound a good candidate for potential treatment of Th17-driven diseases.
Pellino, named after its property that binds Pelle (the Drosophila melanogaster homolog of IRAK1), is a highly conserved E3 class ubiquitin ligase in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Pellino interacts with phosphorylated IRAK1, causing polyubiquitination of IRAK1, and plays a critical upstream role in the toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway. In this study, we firstly cloned and identified a crustacean Pellino from pacific white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei (LvPellino). LvPellino contains a putative N-terminal forkhead-associated (FHA) domain and a C-terminal ring finger (RING) domain with a potential E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase activity, and shows a high similarity with D. melanogaster Pellino. LvPellino could interact with L. vannamei Pelle (LvPelle) and over-expression of LvPellino could increase the activity of LvDorsal (a L. vannamei homolog of NF-κB) on promoters containing NF-κB binding motifs and enhance the expression of arthropod antimicrobial peptides (AMPs). The LvPellino protein was located in the cytoplasm and nucleus and LvPellino mRNA was detected in all the tissues examined and could be up-regulated after lipopolysaccharides, white spot syndrome virus (WSSV), Vibrio parahaemolyticus, and Staphylococcus aureus challenges, suggesting a stimulation response of LvPellino to bacterial and immune stimulant challenges. Knockdown of LvPellino in vivo could significantly decrease the expression of AMPs and increase the mortality of shrimps caused by V. parahaemolyticus challenge. However, suppression of the LvPellino expression could not change the mortality caused by WSSV infection, and dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that over-expression of LvPellino could enhance the promoters of WSSV genes wsv069 (ie1), wsv303, and wsv371, indicating a complex role of LvPellino in WSSV pathogenesis and shrimp antiviral mechanisms.
TLRs are a family of receptors that play a critical role in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy. TGP have been shown to have anti-inflammatory and immuno-regulatory activities. However, the relation between TGP and TLRs on diabetic nephropathy remains unknown. In this study, we examined effects of TGP on immune regulatory TLR2 and 4 in the kidney from streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. TGP decreased the levels of 24h urinary albumin excretion rate significantly in diabetic rats. Western blot analysis showed that TGP significantly inhibited the expression of TLR2 and 4, MyD88, p-IRAK1, NF-κB p65, p-IRF3, TNF-α and IL-1β. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis showed that the significantly increased levels of TLR2 and 4, and MyD88mRNA in the kidneys of diabetic rats were significantly suppressed by TGP treatment. Macrophages infiltration were also markedly increased in the kidneys of the diabetic rats, but were significantly inhibited by TGP in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that TGP has protective effects on several pharmacological targets in the progress of diabetic nephropathy by selectively blocking TLRs activation in vivo.
Nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) essential modulator (NEMO), a regulatory component of the IκB kinase (IKK) complex, controls NF-κB activation through its interaction with ubiquitin chains. We show here that stimulation with interleukin-1 (IL-1) and TNF induces a rapid and transient recruitment of NEMO into punctate structures that are anchored at the cell periphery. These structures are enriched in activated IKK kinases and ubiquitinated NEMO molecules, which suggests that they serve as organizing centers for the activation of NF-κB. These NEMO-containing structures colocalize with activated TNF receptors but not with activated IL-1 receptors. We investigated the involvement of nondegradative ubiquitination in the formation of these structures, using cells deficient in K63 ubiquitin chains or linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC)-mediated linear ubiquitination. Our results indicate that, unlike TNF, IL-1 requires K63-linked and linear ubiquitin chains to recruit NEMO into higher-order complexes. Thus, different mechanisms are involved in the recruitment of NEMO into supramolecular complexes, which appear to be essential for NF-κB activation.
Pellino proteins were initially characterized as a family of E3 ubiquitin ligases that can catalyse the ubiquitylation of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and regulate innate immune signalling pathways. More recently, physiological and molecular roles for members of the Pellino family have been described in the regulation of innate and adaptive immune responses by ubiquitylation. This Review describes the emerging roles of Pellino proteins in innate and adaptive immunity and discusses the mechanistic basis of these functions.
In this article, we report that retreatment of human monocytic THP-1 cells and primary monocytes with pathogenic Neisseria or with purified lipooligosaccharides (LOS) after previous exposure to LOS induced immune tolerance, as evidenced by reduced TNF-α and IL-1β cytokine expression. LOS that we have previously shown to vary in their potential to activate TLR4 signaling, which was correlated with differences in levels of lipid A phosphorylation, had similarly variable ability to induce tolerance. Efficacy for induction of tolerance was proportional to the level of lipid A phosphorylation, as LOS from meningococcal strain 89I with the highest degree of phosphorylation was the most tolerogenic following retreatment with LOS or whole bacteria, compared with LOS from gonococcal strains 1291 and GC56 with reduced levels of phosphorylation. Hydrogen fluoride treatment of 89I LOS to remove phosphates rendered the LOS nontolerogenic. Tolerance induced by the more highly inflammatory meningococcal LOS was correlated with significantly greater downregulation of p38 activation, greater induction of the expression of A20 and of microRNA-146a, and greater reductions in IL-1R-associated kinase 1 and TRAF6 levels following LOS retreatment of cells. The role of miR-146a in regulation of induction of TNF-α was confirmed by transfecting cells with an inhibitor and a mimic of miR-146a. Our results provide a mechanistic framework for understanding the variable pathophysiology of meningococcal and gonococcal infections given that after an initial exposure, greater upregulation of microRNA-146a by more highly inflammatory LOS conversely leads to the suppression of immune responses, which would be expected to facilitate bacterial survival and dissemination.
In the retina, increased inflammatory response can cause visual impairment during HIV infection in spite of successful anti-retroviral therapy (HAART). The HIV-1 Tat protein is implicated in neurodegeneration by eliciting a cytokine response in cells of the CNS, including glia. The current study investigated whether innate immune response in human retinal Muller glia could be immune-modulated to combat inflammation. Endocannabinoids, N-arachidonoylethanolamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol are used to alleviate Tat-induced cytotoxicity and rescue retinal cells. The neuroprotective mechanism involved suppression in production of pro-inflammatory and increase of anti-inflammatory cytokines, mainly through the MAPK pathway. The MAPK regulation was primarily by MKP-1. Both endocannabinoids regulated cytokine production by affecting at the transcriptional level the NF-κB complex, including IRAK1BP1 and TAB2. Stability of cytokine mRNA is likely to have been influenced through tristetraprolin. These findings have direct relevance in conditions like immune-recovery uveitis where anti-retroviral therapy has helped immune reconstitution. In such conditions drugs to combat overwhelming inflammatory response would need to supplement HAART. Endocannabinoids and their agonists may be thought of as neurotherapeutic during certain conditions of HIV-1 induced inflammation.
Lupus nephritis is a cause of significant morbidity in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and its genetic background has not been completely clarified. The aim of this investigation was to analyze single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for association with lupus nephritis, its severe form proliferative nephritis and renal outcome, in two Swedish cohorts. Cohort I (n = 567 SLE cases, n = 512 controls) was previously genotyped for 5676 SNPs and cohort II (n = 145 SLE cases, n = 619 controls) was genotyped for SNPs in STAT4, IRF5, TNIP1 and BLK. Case-control and case-only association analyses for patients with lupus nephritis, proliferative nephritis and severe renal insufficiency were performed. In the case-control analysis of cohort I, four highly linked SNPs in STAT4 were associated with lupus nephritis with genome wide significance with p = 3.7 × 10(-9), OR 2.20 for the best SNP rs11889341. Strong signals of association between IRF5 and an HLA-DR3 SNP marker were also detected in the lupus nephritis case versus healthy control analysis (p <0.0001). An additional six genes showed an association with lupus nephritis with p <0.001 (PMS2, TNIP1, CARD11, ITGAM, BLK and IRAK1). In the case-only meta-analysis of the two cohorts, the STAT4 SNP rs7582694 was associated with severe renal insufficiency with p = 1.6 × 10(-3) and OR 2.22. We conclude that genetic variations in STAT4 predispose to lupus nephritis and a worse outcome with severe renal insufficiency.
Caffeic acid (CA) is a phenolic compound that is frequently present in fruits, grains, and dietary supplements. Although CA has been reported to display various biological activities such as anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, anti-viral, and anti-oxidative effects, the action mechanism of CA is not yet fully elucidated. In this study, the anti-inflammatory action mechanism of CA was examined in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treated macrophages (RAW264.7 cells) and HCl/EtOH-induced gastritis. CA was found to diminish nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) production in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Additionally, mRNA levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, and inducible NO synthase (iNOS) were downregulated by CA. CA also strongly suppressed the nuclear translocation of AP-1 family proteins and the related upstream signaling cascade composed of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), IRAK4, TGF-β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4/7 (MKK4/7), and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). In a direct kinase assay, CA was revealed to directly inhibit IRAK1 and IRAK4. CA also ameliorated HCl/EtOH-induced gastric symptoms via the suppression of JNK, IRAK1, and IRAK4. Therefore, our data strongly suggest that CA acts as an anti-inflammatory drug by directly suppressing IRAK1 and IRAK4.
Erratum in    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Feb 25;111(8):3195.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Myrsine seguinii H. LÉVEILLÉ (syn. Rapanea neriifolia) (Myrsinaceae) is a medicinal plants traditionally used in Myanmar to treat infectious and inflammatory diseases. Since none of reports have systematically demonstrated the anti-inflammatory activity of this plant, we aimed to mechanistically understand the regulatory roles of the plant in inflammatory responses using the ethanolic extract of Myrsine seguinii (Ms-EE).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Activated macrophages and peritonitis symptoms induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were employed. HPLC analysis was used to identify active components. To characterize direct target enzymes, kinase assay was established.RESULTS: Ms-EE inhibited the production of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin (PG)E2 in RAW264.7 cells and peritoneal macrophages stimulated by LPS. This extract suppressed the mRNA expression of the inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 genes by down-regulating the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and activator protein (AP-1). Interestingly, it was found that Ms-EE can directly suppress the enzyme activities of Syk, Src, and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1). Similarly, orally administered Ms-EE inhibited the phosphorylation of Src and Syk in peritoneal exudate-derived cells prepared from peritonitis. Finally, HPLC analysis clearly demonstrated that quercetin is a major active component with suppressing activity on the release of inflammatory mediators (NO and PGE2), and the enzyme activities of Src, Syk, and IRAK-1.CONCLUSION: Ms-EE containing quercetin negatively modulates macrophage-mediated in vitro inflammatory responses and LPS-induced peritonitis by blocking the Src/Syk/NF-κB and IRAK-1/AP-1 pathways, which contributes to its major ethnopharmacological use as an anti-inflammatory herbal medicine.
BACKGROUND: Apart from triggering host immune responses, macrophages also act as a major reservoir for mycobacteria. For better survival, mycobacteria have evolved various mechanisms to modulate the production of proinflammatory cytokines in macrophages, and manipulation of micro-RNA (miRNA) expression has been considered as an important one.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, we found that miR-146a expression was significantly increased in a time- and dose-dependent manner in mycobacteria-infected macrophages. It could obviously reduce the induction of proinflammatory cytokines TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and chemokine MCP-1 by targeting interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) and TNF receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF-6), two key elements involved in the TLR/NF-κB signaling pathway cascades. Consistent with the anti-inflammation effect, a higher bacterial burden was seen in miR-146a mimics-treated macrophages.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Here, we demonstrated that mycobacteria-induced miR-146a could modulate inflammatory response by targeting IRAK1 and TRAF6 and facilitate mycobacteria replication in macrophages.
Transformation of follicular lymphoma (FL) to a more aggressive disease is associated with rapid progression and death. Existing molecular markers for transformation are few and their clinical impact is limited. Here, we report on a whole-genome study of DNA copy numbers and gene expression profiles in serial FL biopsies. We identified 698 genes with high correlation between gene expression and copy number, and the molecular network most enriched for these cis-associated genes. This network includes 14 cis-associated genes directly related to the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) pathway. For each of these 14 genes, the correlated NF-κB target genes were identified and corresponding expression scores were defined. The scores for 6 of the cis-associated NFκB pathway genes (BTK, IGBP1, IRAK1, ROCK1, TMED7-TICAM2, and TRIM37) were significantly associated with transformation. The results suggest that genes regulating B-cell survival and activation are involved in transformation of FL.
Sensory neurons mediate diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Using a mouse model of diabetic peripheral neuropathy (BKS.Cg-m+/+Lepr(db)/J (db/db) mice) and cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, the present study showed that hyperglycemia downregulated miR-146a expression and elevated interleukin-1 receptor-activated kinase (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) levels in DRG neurons. In vitro, elevation of miR-146a by miR-146a mimics in DRG neurons increased neuronal survival under high-glucose conditions. Downregulation and elevation of miR-146a in DRG neurons, respectively, were inversely related to IRAK1 and TRAF6 levels. Treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy with sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, augmented miR-146a expression and decreased levels of IRAK1 and TRAF6 in the DRG neurons. In vitro, blockage of miR-146a in DRG neurons abolished the effect of sildenafil on DRG neuron protection and downregulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6 proteins under hyperglycemia. Our data provide the first evidence showing that miR-146a plays an important role in mediating DRG neuron apoptosis under hyperglycemic conditions.
MicroRNAs are short non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression and are crucial to tumorigenesis. Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a prevalent malignancy worldwide. Up-regulation of miR-146 has been identified in OSCC tissues. However, the roles of miR-146 in carcinogenesis are controversial as it is suppressive in many other malignancies. The present study investigated the pathogenic implications of miR-146a in oral carcinogenesis. Microdissected OSCC exhibits higher levels of miR-146a expression than matched adjacent mucosal cells. The plasma miR-146a levels of patients are significantly higher than those of control subjects; these levels decrease drastically after tumor resection. miR-146a levels in tumors and in patients' plasma can be used to classify OSCC and non-disease status (sensitivity: >0.72). Exogenous miR-146a expression is significantly increased in vitro oncogenic phenotypes as well as during xenograft tumorigenesis and OSCC metastasis. The plasma miR-146a levels of these mice parallel the xenograft tumor burdens of the mice. A miR-146a blocker abrogates the growth of xenograft tumors. miR-146a oncogenic activity is associated with down-regulation of IRAK1, TRAF6 and NUMB expression. Furthermore, miR-146a directly targets the 3'UTR of NUMB and a region within the NUMB coding sequence when suppressing NUMB expression. Exogenous NUMB expression attenuates OSCC oncogenicity. Double knockdown of IRAK1 and TRAF6, and of TRAF6 and NUMB, enhance the oncogenic phenotypes of OSCC cells. Oncogenic enhancement modulated by miR-146a expression is attenuated by exogenous IRAK1 or NUMB expression. This study shows that miR-146a expression contributes to oral carcinogenesis by targeting the IRAK1, TRAF6 and NUMB genes.
We have established an in vitro HSV-2 acute infection model with Human cervical epithelial (HCE cells, the primary target and natural host cells for HSV-2) to investigate the role of TLRs-mediated innate immune response to HSV-2. In current study, we found that HSV-2 infection induced activity of NF-kB reporter and expression of cytokines are TLR4-dependent using approaches with shRNA and TLR4 antagonist. Knockdown experiments demonstrated that the adaptor molecules MyD88 and Mal of the TLRs signaling pathway are required in the HSV-2 induced TLR4-dependent NF-kB activation in HCE cells. Western blot assay suggested that knockdown of TLR4 decreased the phosphorylation of IRAK1 and inhibitor of NF-kB (IkB-α) upon HSV-2 infection. Finally, decreased expression of either TLR4 or MyD88/Mal alone or both significantly abolished productions of IL-6 and IFN-β by ELISA analysis. Taken together, our results from the in vitro infection model reveal for the first time that there exists the pathway via TLR4-Mal/MyD88-IRAK1-NF-kB axis in human cervical epithelial cells in response to HSV-2 infection.
Paramyxovirus C protein targets the host interferon (IFN) system for virus immune evasion. To identify its unknown anti-IFN activity, we examined the effect of Sendai virus C protein on activation of the IFN-α promoter via various signaling pathways. This study uncovers a novel ability of C protein to block Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7- and TLR9-dependent IFN-α induction, which is specific to plasmacytoid dendritic cells. C protein interacts with a serine/threonine kinase IKKα and inhibits phosphorylation of IRF7. This anti-IFN activity of C protein is shared across genera of the Paramyxovirinae, and thus appears to play an important role in paramyxovirus immune evasion.
We have previously reported that interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) is essential for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent infection membrane protein 1 (LMP1)-induced p65/RelA serine 536 phosphorylation and NF-κB activation but not for IκB kinase α (IKKα) or IKKβ activation (Y. J. Song, K. Y. Jen, V. Soni, E. Kieff, and E. Cahir-McFarland, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 103:2689-2694, 2006, doi:10.1073/pnas.0511096103). Since the kinase activity of IRAK1 is not required for LMP1-induced NF-κB activation, IRAK1 is proposed to function as a scaffold protein to recruit a p65/RelA serine 536 kinase(s) to enhance NF-κB-dependent transcriptional activity. We now report that Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) interacts with IRAK1 and is critical for LMP1-induced p65/RelA serine 536 phosphorylation and NF-κB activation. CaMKII bound the death domain of IRAK1 and directly phosphorylated p65/RelA at serine 536 in vitro. Downregulation of CaMKII activity or expression significantly reduced LMP1-induced p65/RelA serine 536 phosphorylation and NF-κB activation. Furthermore, LMP1-induced CaMKII activation and p65/RelA serine 536 phosphorylation were significantly reduced in IRAK1 knockout (KO) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Thus, IRAK1 may recruit and activate CaMKII, which phosphorylates p65/RelA serine 536 to enhance the transactivation potential of NF-κB in LMP1-induced NF-κB activation pathway.
Interleukin-33 (IL-33) is an unconventional member of the IL-1 family: it is a dual function cytokine. Many different cell types, tissue cells and leukocytes, produce IL-33 either constitutively or after stimulation and release it by a poorly defined molecular mechanism. Free IL-33 acts as a classical cytokine by binding to target cells expressing receptors for IL-33 minimally consisting of ST2 and IL-1RAcP. Depending on the target cell type IL-33 will stimulate cell-type specific signal transduction mechanisms and thereby change the biosynthetic profile of the respective cell. In addition, it is stored in the nucleus of cells and may be released after cell stress, death by injury or necrosis, acting as an alarmin by orchestrating a sterile inflammation. Furthermore, IL-33 has intracrine functions in the cell producing it, which are independent of IL-33 receptors. Intracellular IL-33 is predominantly found in the nucleus associated to the chromatin and may exert gene regulatory function by yet poorly defined mechanisms. It is the aim of this review to address two basic biological aspects of the IL-33/IL-33 receptor system. First, to summarize the current understanding of the fate and function of intracellular IL-33, and second, to discuss recent advances in the knowledge of the molecular composition, function and regulation of the IL-33 receptor complex, including initial signaling mechanisms.
ChrX cellular mosaicism for X-linked genetic polymorphisms in females versus the single ChrX representation in males denotes a genetic difference, which may contribute to gender bias in the inflammatory response. This hypothesis was tested in female F1 offspring of consomic mice (BL6J-ChrX(A/J)/NaJ) that were homokaryotic or mosaic for the active BL6 and AJ ChrXs or for IRAK1 deficiency linked to the BL6 ChrX. Sepsis was initiated by CLP. IRAK1-deficient and IRAK1-mosaic mice showed similar protection from sepsis-induced mortality and reduced IL-6 and IL-10 release compared with WT. BM cellularity and blood B cell counts were increased in naive IRAK1-mosaic mice compared with WT-mosaic or IRAK1-deficient animals. Sepsis-induced BM cell depletion was greater in IRAK1-mosaic mice compared with WT-mosaic or IRAK1-deficient subjects, whereas splenic B and T cell depletion was less in IRAK1-mosaic and IRAK1-deficient than WT-mosaic mice. Skewing toward AJ or BL6-ChrX-expressing cells was assessed by testing allele-specific expression of strain-variant Xkrx and BTK genes. In naive IRAK1-mosaic mice, BM and blood cells with the active BL6-ChrX, were greater than cells expressing the AJ-ChrX (cell ratio 2.5 in IRAK1-mosaic; 1.5 in WT-mosaic mice). Sepsis decreased cell ratios more in IRAK1-mosaic than in WT-mosaic mice. The study reveals functional variability in cellular mosaicism for IRAK1 expression and natural X-linked polymorphisms during sepsis. Mosaicism for IRAK1 expression is accompanied by skewing toward deficient immune cell populations, producing a phenotype that is preconditioned for improved sepsis outcome similar to that observed in IRAK1 deficiency.
CONTEXT: Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play crucial roles in immune responses, especially innate immunity, against viral infections. Toll-like receptor 9 recognizes intracellular viral double-strand DNA, which leads to the activation of nuclear factor B (NF-κB) through the myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MYD88) pathway. Defects in the expression of TLR9 and its signaling molecules may cause attenuated immune responses against hepatitis B virus.OBJECTIVE: To determine expression levels of TLR9 messenger RNA along with MYD88, interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and NF-κB in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from chronic hepatitis B virus (CHB)-infected patients.DESIGN: In this study, 60 CHB patients and 60 healthy controls were recruited and the expression of TLR9 and its downstream signaling molecules was examined by real-time polymerase chain reaction techniques using β-actin as a housekeeping gene.RESULTS: Our results showed that expression of TLR9, MYD88, IRAK1, TRAF6, and NF-κB in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of CHB patients was significantly decreased in comparison with healthy controls.CONCLUSIONS: According to our results, it appears that CHB patients are unable to appropriately express genes in the TLR9 pathway, which may impede immune responses against hepatitis B virus infection. These results suggest a mechanism that may partially explain the fact that immune responses are disrupted in CHB patients.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) of the central nervous system (CNS) is essential for normal brain function, whilst ECM remodelling is associated with cerebrovascular inflammation driven by the cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) after acute brain injury. The effect of ECM remodelling on endothelial activation during neuroinflammation remains unknown. Here we report that ECM remodelling in the cerebrovasculature critically regulates IL-1-induced endothelial cell activation after cerebral ischaemia; Expression levels of ECM molecules associated with the cerebrovasculature, namely fibronectin (FN) and collagen IV (Col IV), strongly increased in brain blood vessels after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in a time-dependent manner, reaching a peak of vascular expression 48 h after MCAo. In cultures, FN and Col IV (but also laminin-1 and fibrillin-1) promoted strong attachment of the GPNT endothelial cell line and primary rat brain endothelial cells, which was markedly inhibited by RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp) peptide, or specific integrin β1, α4, α5 and αv blockade. IL-1β-induced activation of extracellular-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and nuclear factor κB (NFκB), and synthesis of cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant (CINC-1) were enhanced in cells plated onto ECM molecules, and these responses were inhibited by selective integrin blockade. Finally, increased ECM expression in vessels after MCAo was found associated with vinculin clustering, increased integrin β1 expression, and increased IL-1 receptor associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) activity in endothelial cells and perivascular astrocytes. Therefore, our data indicate a novel function for the ECM in the regulation of cerebrovascular inflammation triggered by IL-1 during acute brain injury.
INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs (miRs) play important roles in the development and progression of human cancers. MiR-146a down-regulates epidermal growth factor receptor and the nuclear factor-κB regulatory kinase interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 genes that play important roles in lung carcinogenesis. This study was conducted to evaluate the association between rs2910164C>G, a functional polymorphism in the pre-miR-146a, and lung cancer risk.MATERIAL AND METHODS: The rs2910164C>G genotypes were determined in 1094 patients with lung cancer and 1100 healthy controls who were frequency matched for age and gender.RESULTS: The rs2910164 CG or GG genotype was associated with a significantly decreased risk for lung cancer compared to that of the CC genotype (adjusted odds ratio=0.80, 95% confidence interval=0.66-0.96, P=0.02). When subjects were stratified according to smoking exposure (never, light and heavy smokers), the effect of the rs2910164C>G genotype on lung cancer risk was significant only in never smokers (adjusted odds ratio=0.66, 95% confidence interval=0.45-0.96, P=0.03, under a dominant model for the C allele) and decreased as smoking exposure level increased (Ptrend<0.001). In line with this result, the level of miR-146a expression in the tumor tissues was significantly higher in the GG genotype than in the CC or CG genotype only in never-smokers (P=0.02).CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that the rs2910164C>G in pre-miR-146a may contribute to genetic susceptibility to lung cancer, and that miR-146a might be involved in lung cancer development.
Increasing evidence shows that microRNAs (miRNAs) are a family of regulatory molecules involved in many physiological processes, including the inflammation in central nervous system (CNS) and neurological disorders. Angiostrongylus cantonensis (A. cantonensis) is the major cause of human infectious eosinophilic meningitis and can induce CNS injury. In the present study, we investigated the expression of miRNAs involved in neuronal functions such as miR-132-3p/212-3p, and miR-146a-5p, inflammation-related miRNA, in the modulation of inflammation of CNS of mice and rats induced by A. cantonensis. The functions of differentially expressed miRNAs were analyzed through bioinformatics methods, and the expression of chosen target genes were investigated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. The results showed that miR-146a-5p upregulated in the brain of rats after 21 days; A. cantonensis infection and the expression of miR-132-3p and miR-146a-5p upregulated in the brain of mice model infected by A. cantonensis. The expression of the target genes of mmu-miR-146a-5p such as Irak1 and Traf6 downregulated in 14 days and 21 days after A. cantonensis infection. Our results supply more information about the involvement of the miRNAs in the regulation of inflammation of CNS induced by A. cantonensis.
Our previous report has shown a natural pyranochalcones-derived compound, (E)-3-(3,4-Dimethoxyphenyl)-1-(5-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-2H-chromen-6-yl)prop-2-en-1-one (5b), that exerted protection against carrageenan-induced hind paw edema and adjuvant-induced arthritis. In this study, collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model was used to further examine the anti-arthritic effects of 5b in vivo; the underlying molecular mechanisms of action were also investigated using a murine monocytic cell line, RAW264.7 cells. Here we showed that oral administration of 5b (20mg/kg) significantly suppressed the progression of arthritis. Improvement in disease severity was accompanied by inhibition of CD68-positive cells in knee joint and reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 in serum. In vitro, 5b suppressed expressions of iNOS, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β as well as productions of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated macrophages. This compound also significantly suppressed LPS-induced NF-κB activation, including phosphorylation of I-κB, degradation of I-κB, and nuclear translocation of p65 and p50. Treatment with 5b also blocked LPS-induced expression of TLR4 remarkably, suppressed degradation of IRAKs and phosphorylations of JNK and ERK, but had little effect to p38 kinase activation. These findings indicated that 5b might be a therapeutic agent for rheumatoid arthritis, and exerted an anti-inflammatory effect mainly through mediating TLR4, NF-κB and ERK/JNK signaling pathways in monocytes.
Recent evidence has shown that dietary phytosterols (PS) possess anti-inflammatory properties both in vivo and in vitro. Our previous work shows that PS β-Sitosterol (SIT), may function by down-regulating pro-inflammatory transcription factors NF-kB and STAT1 in response to LPS stimulation, possibly through modulation of the TLR4 pathway. The objective in this study was to determine the effects of SIT on TLR4 surface expression and localization into lipid rafts, as well as to investigate its effects on intracellular MyD88 dependent pathway activation. J774A.1 macrophages were pre-treated with cyclodextrin vehicle loaded with cholesterol or SIT, then stimulated with LPS (100 ng/ml) for 30 min. ImageStream cytometry demonstrated that SIT down-regulates TLR4 expression without affecting lipid raft distribution. Western blot demonstrated that SIT down-regulated the adaptor protein MyD88 and the activity of IRAK1 but increased SOCS3 expression. Together, these results provide evidence that SIT may indeed elicit anti-inflammatory properties by down-regulating some components of the TLR4 pathway.
INTRODUCTION: Toll like receptors (TLRs) and their signaling molecules play important roles in microbe recognition and induction of immune responses, including production of inflammatory cytokines, against viral infections. Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine expression levels of TLR signaling molecules (IRAK1, IRAK4, TRAF3, and IRF7) and the pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-12 and IL-6 in chronic HBV infected (CHB) patients.DESIGN: This study was performed on 60 CHB patients and 60 healthy controls and the expression of IRAK1, IRAK4, TRAF3, and IRF7 and their downstream inflammatory cytokines (IL-12 and IL-6) were evaluated by Real-Time PCR and ELISA techniques.RESULTS: The results demonstrated that expression of IRAK4, TRAF3, and IRF7 were significantly decreased in PBMCs of CHB patients in comparison to healthy controls. Serum levels of IL-12 were significantly increased, while, IL-6 were not differ between patients and controls.CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results presented here it seems that CHB patients do not express appropriate levels of the genes in the TLRs pathway which may lead to impaired immune responses against HBV infection which is seen in the patients.
Tube and Pelle are essential components in Drosophila Toll signaling pathway. In this study, we characterized a pair of crustacean homologs of Tube and Pelle in Scylla paramamosain, namely, SpTube and SpPelle, and analyzed their immune functions. The full-length cDNA of SpTube had 2052 bp with a 1578 bp open reading frame (ORF) encoding a protein with 525 aa. A death domain (DD) and a kinase domain were predicted in the deduced protein. The full-length cDNA of SpPelle had 3825 bp with a 3420 bp ORF encoding a protein with 1140 aa. The protein contained a DD and a kinase domain. Two conserved repeat motifs previously called Tube repeat motifs present only in insect Tube or Tube-like sequences were found between these two domains. Alignments and structure predictions demonstrated that SpTubeDD and SpPelleDD significantly differed in sequence and 3D structure. Similar to TubeDD, SpTubeDD contained three common conserved residues (R, K, and R) on one surface that may mediate SpMyD88 binding and two common residues (A and A) on the other surface that may contribute to Pelle binding. By contrast, SpPelleDD lacked similar conservative residues. SpTube, insect Tube-like kinases, and human IRAK4 were found to be RD kinases with an RD dipeptide in the kinase domain. SpPelle, Pelle, insect Pelle-like kinases, and human IRAK1 were found to be non-RD kinases lacking an RD dipeptide. Both SpTube and SpPelle were highly expressed in hemocytes, gills, and hepatopancreas. Upon challenge, SpTube and SpPele were significantly increased in hemocytes by Gram-negative or Gram-positive bacteria, whereas only SpPelle was elevated by White Spot Syndrome Virus. The pull-down assay showed that SpTube can bind to both SpMyD88 and SpPelle. These results suggest that SpTube, SpPelle, and SpMyD88 may form a trimeric complex involved in the immunity of mud crabs against both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria.
OBJECTIVE: MiR-146a exerts negative control on inflammatory responses by suppressing cytokine-induced expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) by impairing NF-κB activity and inhibiting the expression of target genes. Recent study suggests that histone deacetylases (HDACs) are involved in the regulation of microRNA (miRNA) expression. Therefore, we determined whether HDAC inhibitors can increase miR-146a expression, thereby inhibiting interleukin-1β (IL-1β)-induced signaling in osteoarthritis fibroblast-like synoviocytes (OA-FLS).METHOD: MiRNA expression was analyzed using real-time PCR. IL-1β-induced downstream signals and cytokine expression were evaluated using Western blotting and ELISA. Transcription factors regulating promoter activation were identified using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays.RESULTS: IL-1β treatment of OA-FLS induced a mild (1.7-fold) increase in miR-146a expression that was unable to appropriately downregulate IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression. HDAC inhibitors, SAHA (vorinostat), and LBH589 (panobinostat) significantly (6.1- and 5.4-fold) elevated miR-146a expression by increasing the binding of the transcription factor NF-κB to the miR-146a promoter, and negatively regulated IL-1β-induced IKK/IκB/p65 phosphorylation signaling and IL-6 secretion. The increase in miR-146a expression induced by the HDAC inhibitors was prevented by transfection of miR-146a inhibitor or HDAC1 (class I HDAC), HDAC4 (class IIa HDAC), and HDAC6 (class IIb HDAC) overexpression, suggesting that they were due to inhibition of HDAC activity.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that HDAC inhibitor treatment in OA-FLS significantly increased miR-146a expression and mediated markedly negative regulation to inhibit IL-1β-induced signaling and cytokine secretion. Our results indicate the potential rationale of anti-inflammatory effects for HDAC inhibitors.
The health effects arising from exposure to low doses of ionizing radiation are of particular concern, mainly due to the increased application of diagnostic and therapeutic X-ray modalities. The mechanisms behind the cell and tissue responses to low doses remain to be elucidated. Accumulating evidence suggests that low doses of ionizing radiation induce activation of the immune response; however, the processes involved have yet to be adequately investigated. Monocytes are key players in the induction of an immune response. Within the context of this study, we investigated the activation of toll-like receptors (TLRs), mitogen‑activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and NF-κB signaling in isolated human primary monocytes in response to low doses (0.05 and 0.1 Gy) and a high dose (1 Gy) of ionizing radiation. Using quantitative RT-PCR and ELISA techniques, our results showed a positive regulation of TLR signaling in response to low doses but a less significant response at high doses. This activation was demonstrated via the activation of TLR signaling molecules (HMGB1, TLR4, TLR9, MyD88 and IRAK1). Furthermore, and in contrast to the high dose, the low doses showed increased phosphorylation levels of the protein IκBα, and therefore positive signaling of the NF-κB pathway. This result denotes pro-survival and pro-inflammatory responses. Additionally, MAPKs were activated in response to 0.05 Gy, while 0.1 and 1 Gy showed a downregulatory trend that may be related to activation of the PF4 gene. On the other hand, there was highly significant involvement of activated p53 and damaged genes in response to high but not low doses. In conclusion, this study addressed the need to re-evaluate health risks arising from exposure to low doses of ionizing radiation, particularly in view of the accumulating evidence reporting inflammatory and oncogenic consequences from these exposures.
IL-1 and TNF-α, the two major proinflammatory cytokines, have been involved in initiation and progression of several malignancies. They could influence the biological behavior of prostatic tumors and patient outcome, and could be useful as prognostic factors. This study evaluated the prognostic capability for biochemical progression after radical prostatectomy of expression of IL-1, TNF-α and related signaling components, in the tumor and surrounding stroma, as well as its correlation with other clinicopathological features. Expression of IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-1Ra, IL-1RI, IL-1RII, IRAK-1, TRAF6, TNF-α, TNFRI and TRAF2 was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in radical prostatectomy samples from 93 prostate cancer patients. Spearman's test, Kaplan-Meier curves, and univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression analyses were performed. Expression of TNF-α, TNFRI, TRAF2, ILRI, IRAK-1 and TRAF6 correlated with at least one clinicopathological feature (clinical T stage, pathological T stage, preoperative serum PSA or Gleason score). Increased tumor expression of TNF-α, TNFRI and IL-1RI, and reduced tumor expression of IRAK-1 were significantly correlated with a poor prognosis in univariate analysis. Reduced stromal expression of IL-1β and IL-1RII, and increased stromal expression of IRAK-1 were also adverse prognostic factors in univariate analysis. Remarkably, tumor IL-1β and stromal IL-1RII and IRAK-1 remained as independent prognostic factors after adjustment for preoperative serum PSA, pathological T stage and Gleason score in multivariate Cox models. Our results suggest that prostatic expression of TNF-α, IL-1β and related signaling proteins (TNFRI, IL-1RI, IL-1RII and IRAK-1) predicts clinical outcome in prostate cancer, and support the involvement of TNF-α and IL-1β signaling in prostate cancer progression.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) sense microbial products and play an important role in innate immunity. Currently, 11 members of TLRs have been identified in humans, with important function in host defense in early steps of the inflammatory response. TLRs are present in the plasma membrane (TLR1, TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, TLR6) and endosome (TLR3, TLR7, TLR8, TLR9) of leukocytes. TLRs and IL-1R are a family of receptors related to the innate immune response that contain an intracellular domain known as the Toll-IL-1R (TIR) domain that recruits the TIR-containing cytosolic adapters MyD88, TRIF, TIRAP and TRAM. The classical pathway results in the activation of both nuclear factor κB and MAPKs via the IRAK complex, with two active kinases (IRAK-1 and IRAK-4) and two non-catalytic subunits (IRAK-2 and IRAK-3/M). The classical pro-inflammatory TLR signaling pathway leads to the synthesis of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, such as IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-12 and TNF-α. In humans, genetic defects have been identified that impair signaling of the TLR pathway and this may result in recurrent pyogenic infections, as well as virus and fungi infections. In this review, we discuss the main mechanisms of microbial recognition and the defects involving TLRs.
The present study was designed to evaluate whether microRNA-146a and its adapter proteins (TRAF6 and IRAK1) are involved in the pathogenesis of diabetes-induced kidney damage. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control and diabetic groups (n = 6 in each). Diabetes was induced by injection of streptozotocin (55 mg/kg; i.p.) in 12 h fasted rats. Diabetic kidney damage was diagnosed by renal hypertrophy, thickened glomerular basement membrane, widened filtration slits, mesangial expansion, as well as by elevated levels of blood urea and creatinine in diabetic rats 2 months after induction of diabetes. While the expression of NF-κB mRNA and miR-146a were increased in diabetic kidney compared to the sham controls (p < 0.01 for both comparisons), the mRNA levels of IRAK1 and TRAF6 did not statistically reduce. The NF-κB activity and the concentrations of TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β in the kidney of diabetic rats were higher than the kidney of controls (p < 0.05 for TNF-α and NF-κB; p < 0.01 for IL-6 and IL-1β). Our results indicate that the upregulation of miR-146a was not accompanied by downregulation of inflammatory mediators in diabetic kidney. It is possible that a defect in the miR-146a-mediated negative loop provides a situation for sustained activation of NF-κB and its targets to promote cells toward abnormalities.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in the regulation of target gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. In order to better understand the role of miRNA in the immunological regulation of macrophages against Mycobacterium bovis BCG infection, we explored the alteration of immune-related miRNA profile in macrophage RAW264.7 cells in response to BCG infection in this study. Our results demonstrated that miR-142-3p was a potential to negatively regulate the production of pro-inflammatory mediators NF-κB (NF-κB1), TNF-α and IL-6 in the macrophages in part through a mechanism of targeting IRAK-1 gene and post-transcriptionally down-regulating IRAK-1 protein expression.
Activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome by diverse stimuli requires a priming signal from TLRs and an activation signal from purinergic receptors or pore-forming toxins. In this study, we demonstrate, through detailed analysis of NLRP3 activation in macrophages deficient in key downstream TLR signaling molecules, that MyD88 is required for an immediate early phase, whereas Toll/IL-1R domain-containing adapter inducing IFN-β is required for a subsequent intermediate phase of posttranslational NLRP3 activation. Both IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK) 1 and IRAK4 are critical for rapid activation of NLRP3 through the MyD88 pathway, but only IRAK1 is partially required in the Toll/IL-1R domain-containing adapter inducing IFN-β pathway. IRAK1 and IRAK4 are also required for rapid activation of NLRP3 by Listeria monocytogenes, as deletion of IRAK1 or IRAK4 led to defective inflammasome activation. These findings define the pathways that lead to rapid NLRP3 activation and identify IRAK1 as a critical mediator of a transcription-independent,inflammasome-dependent early warning response to pathogenic infection.
Microglia, the resident innate immune cells of the CNS, are the primary defenders against microbes and critical to CNS remodeling. Dysregulation of microglial behavior can lead to unchecked pro-inflammatory activity and subsequent neurodegeneration. The molecular mechanisms leading to chronic inflammation and microglial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases are not well-understood. It is known that patients with Presenilin 2 (PS2) mutations develop autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease. We have shown that a lack of normal PS2 function is associated with exaggerated microglia pro-inflammatory responses in vitro. To identify pathways by which PS2 regulates microglia and determine how PS2 dysfunction may lead to altered inflammatory pathways, we pursued an unbiased array approach to assess differential expression of microRNAs between murine PS2 knockout (KO) and wild-type microglia. We identified miR146, a negative regulator of monocyte pro-inflammatory response, as constitutively down-regulated in PS2 KO microglia. Consistent with a state of miR146 suppression, we found that PS2 KO microglia express higher levels of the miR146 target protein interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1, and have increased NFκB transcriptional activity. We hypothesize that PS2 impacts microglial responses through modulation of miR146a. PS2 dysfunction, through aging or mutation, may contribute to neurodegeneration by influencing the pro-inflammatory behavior of microglia. Presenilin 2 (PS2), a membrane associated protease, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. We have previously shown that PS2 plays an important role in curbing the proinflammatory response in microglia. Here, we report the novel finding that PS2 participates in maintaining the basal and cytokine induced expression of the innate immunity regulating microRNA, miR146. These data suggest one mechanism by which PS2 works to reign in proinflammatory microglial behavior and that PS2 dysfunction or deficiency could thus result in unchecked proinflammatory activation contributing to neurodegeneration.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The gallnut of Rhus chinensis MILL and its main constituent penta-O-galloyl-β-D-glucose (PGG) inhibited NF-κB activation in LPS-stimulated peritoneal and colonic macrophages. Here we have investigated PGG mechanisms underlying anti-inflammatory effects of PGG in vitro and in vivo.EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Male C57BL/6 mice (18-22 g, 6 weeks old) were used to prepare peritoneal and colonic macrophages and for the induction of colitis by intrarectal administration of 2,3,4-trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS). A range of inflammatory markers and transcription factors were evaluated by elisa, immunoblotting, flow cytometry and confocal microscopy.KEY RESULTS: Expression of Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4 or Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) binding to TLR-4 in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages was not affected by PGG. However PGG inhibited binding of an anti-MyD88 antibody to peritoneal macrophages, but did not reduce binding of anti-IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) and IRAK4 antibodies to the macrophages with or without transfection with MyD88 siRNA. PGG potently reduced the activation of IRAK1, NF-κB, and MAPKs in LPS- or pepetidoglycan-stimulated peritoneal and colonic macrophages. PGG suppressed IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6 in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages, while increasing expression of the anti-inflammatorycytokine IL-10. Oral administration of PGG inhibited colon shortening and myeloperoxidase activity in mice with TNBS-induced colitis, along with reducing NF-κB activation and IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-6 levels, whereas it increased IL-10.CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: PGG reduced activation of NF-κB and MAPK signalling pathways by directly interacting with the MyD88 adaptor protein. PGG may ameliorate inflammatory diseases such as colitis.
Erratum in    J Immunol. 2013 Nov 15;191(10):5317.
Macrophages can respond to diverse signals and adopt multiple phenotypes. Although interleukin-4 (IL-4) is shown to potently induce the expression of arginase 1 and contribute to differentiation of macrophages to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype, other modulators may potentiate or reduce the effect of IL-4. In this report, we focus on the combinatorial effects of IL-4 with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). ATRA has been shown to contribute to the resolution of inflammation, however it has not been linked to arginase 1 expression in macrophages. We demonstrate that although ATRA alone has no effect on the expression or activities of arginase 1, ATRA can dramatically potentiate the induction of arginase 1 by IL-4. On the other hand, high doses of LPS, such as those seen in septic shock, can induce the expression of both M1 and M2 mediators in macrophages. The effects of subclinical doses of LPS, which are prevalent in humans with adverse health conditions, on macrophage differentiation are not well studied. We demonstrate that low dose LPS can effectively suppress the expression of arginase 1 induced by IL-4 and ATRA. Mechanistically, we report that the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) and Toll-interacting-protein (Tollip) are involved in the suppressive effect of low dose LPS. Our study reveals dynamic modulation of arginase 1 expression in macrophages by competing agonists, and bears relevance for potential intervention of chronic diseases.
Comment in    J Perinatol. 2013 Oct;33(10):745-7.
Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) is a key transcriptional regulator that can induce either silencing or activation of target genes. Genetic polymorphisms in the MECP2/IRAK1 locus have been associated with increased susceptibility to multiple autoimmune diseases such as lupus, primary Sjogren's syndrome, and more recently rheumatoid arthritis. Data from our group suggest that the disease risk variant in this locus is associated with gain of MeCP2 function. Recent findings indicate that MECP2 duplication in human results in defective T helper cell type 1 (TH1) response and IFN-γ production. Herein, we discuss the data from children with MECP2 duplication, human lupus, and from the human MECP2 transgenic and Mecp2 deficient mice to support a link between MECP2 overexpression and autoimmunity. We also provide findings from an Mecp2 deficient mouse that independently support a role for MeCP2 in the immune response and specifically in IFN-γ expression.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) is a key regulatory protein in TLR/IL1R-mediated cell activation during inflammatory response. Studies indicated that pending on the nature of the used inflammatory model, downregulation of IRAK1 may be beneficial or detrimental. However, the role of IRAK1 in affecting outcome in polymicrobial sepsis is unknown. We tested this question using an IRAK1-deficient mouse strain and cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure, which is a clinically relevant rodent septic model. Sepsis-induced mortality was markedly lower in IRAK1-deficient mice (35 %) compared to WT (85 %). Sepsis-induced increases in blood IL-6 and IL-10 levels were blunted at 6 h post-CLP in IRAK1 deficiency compared to WT, but cytokine levels were similar at 20 h post-CLP. Sepsis-induced blood granulocytosis and depletion of splenic B cells were also blunted in IRAK1-deficient mice as compared to WT. Analysis of TLR-mediated cytokine responses by IRAK1-deficient and WT macrophages ex vivo indicated a TLR4-dependent downregulation of IL-6 and IL1β in IRAK1 deficiency, whereas TLR2-dependent responses were unaffected. TLR7/8-mediated IL-6, IL1β, and IL-10 production was also blunted in IRAK1 macrophages as compared to WT. The study shows that IRAK1 deficiency impacts multiple TLR-dependent pathways and decreases early cytokine responses following polymicrobial sepsis. The delayed inflammatory response caused by the lack of IRAK1 expression is beneficial, as it manifests a marked increased chance of survival after polymicrobial sepsis.
Despite the critical role of microRNA in inflammatory response, little is known about its function in inflammation-induced Acute Lung Injury (ALI)/Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). To investigate the potential role of microRNA146a (miR-146a) in ALI, we used lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI rat model. Our data revealed that LPS-induced lung injury in rats resulted in significant upregulation of proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), IL-6, IL-1β, and miR-146a expression. LPS treatment also leads to higher expression of miR-146a as well as increase in secretion of TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β in alveolar macrophage (AM) NR8383 cells in a time-dependent manner. Manipulation with miR146a mimic significantly suppressed LPS-mediated TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β induction in NR8383 cells by repressing expression of IRAK-1 and TRAF-6. These data clearly indicate that the upregulation of miR146a suppresses inflammatory mediators in LPS induced-ALI model. Therefore, miR-146a may be therapeutically targeted as a mean to repress inflammatory response following ALI.
Comment in    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2013 Sep;12(9):664.
Myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MYD88) L265P somatic mutation is highly prevalent in Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) and supports malignant growth through nuclear factor κB (NF-κB). The signaling cascade(s) by which MYD88 L265P promotes NF-κB activation in WM remain unclear. By lentiviral knockdown or use of a MYD88 inhibitor, decreased phosphorylation of the NF-κB gatekeeper IκBα and survival occurred in MYD88 L265P-expressing WM cells. Conversely, WM cells engineered to overexpress MYD88 L265P showed enhanced survival. Coimmunoprecipitation studies identified Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) complexed to MYD88 in L265P-expressing WM cells, with preferential binding of MYD88 to phosphorylated BTK (pBTK). Increased pBTK was also observed in WM cells transduced to overexpress L265P vs wild-type MYD88. Importantly, MYD88 binding to BTK was abrogated following treatment of MYD88 L265P-expressing cells with a BTK kinase inhibitor. Inhibition of BTK or interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 and 4 (IRAK-1 and -4) kinase activity induced apoptosis of WM cells, and their combination resulted in more robust inhibition of NF-κB signaling and synergistic WM cell killing. The results establish BTK as a downstream target of MYD88 L265P signaling, and provide a framework for the study of BTK inhibitors alone, and in combination with IRAK inhibitors for the treatment of WM.
Celiac Disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory enteropathy, triggered in genetically susceptible individuals by dietary gluten. Gluten is able to elicit proliferation of specific T cells and secretion of inflammatory cytokines in the small intestine. In this study we investigated the possibility that p10-mer, a decapeptide from durum wheat (QQPQDAVQPF), which was previously shown to prevent the activation of celiac peripheral lymphocytes, may exert an inhibitory effect on peptic-tryptic digested gliadin (PT-Gly)-stimulated intestinal carcinoma CACO-2 cells. In these cells, incubated with PT-Gly or p31-43 α-gliadin derived peptide in the presence or in the absence of p10-mer, IRAK1 activation and NF-kB, ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK phosphorylation were measured by immunoblotting, Cyclooxigenase 2 (COX-2) activity by PGE-2 release assay, and production of cytokines in the cell supernatants by ELISA. Our results showed that pre-treatment of CACO-2 cells with p10-mer significantly inhibited IRAK1 activation and NF-kB, ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK phosphorylation, as well as COX-2 activity (i.e. PGE-2 release) and production of the IL-6 and IL-8 pro-inflammatory cytokines, induced by gliadin peptides. These findings demonstrate the inhibitory effect of the p10-mer peptide on inflammatory response in CACO-2 cells. The results of the present study show that this p10-mer peptide can modulate "in vitro" the inflammatory response induced by gliadin peptides, allowing to move towards new therapeutic strategies. Turning off the inflammatory response, may in fact represent a key target in the immunotherapy of celiac disease.
BACKGROUND: Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a pivotal role in the defense against invading pathogens by detecting pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). TLR4 recognizes lipopolysaccharides (LPS) in the cell walls of Gram-negative bacteria, resulting in the induction and secretion of proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α and IL-6. The WW domain containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 (WWP1) regulates a variety of cellular biological processes. Here, we investigated whether WWP1 acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase in TLR-mediated inflammation.METHODOLOGY/RESULTS: Knocking down WWP1 enhanced the TNF-α and IL-6 production induced by LPS, and over-expression of WWP1 inhibited the TNF-α and IL-6 production induced by LPS, but not by TNF-α. WWP1 also inhibited the IκB-α, NF-κB, and MAPK activation stimulated by LPS. Additionally, WWP1 could degrade TRAF6, but not IRAK1, in the proteasome pathway, and knocking down WWP1 reduced the LPS-induced K48-linked, but not K63-linked, polyubiquitination of endogenous TRAF6.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We identified WWP1 as an important negative regulator of TLR4-mediated TNF-α and IL-6 production. We also showed that WWP1 functions as an E3 ligase when cells are stimulated with LPS by binding to TRAF6 and promoting K48-linked polyubiquitination. This results in the proteasomal degradation of TRAF6.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play key roles in detecting pathogens and initiating inflammatory responses that, subsequently, prime specific adaptive responses. Several mechanisms control TLR activity to avoid excessive inflammation and consequent immunopathology, including the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Recently, several TLR-responsive microRNAs (miRs) have also been proposed as potential regulators of this signaling pathway, but their functional role during the inflammatory response still is incompletely understood. In this study, we report that, after LPS engagement, monocytes up-regulate miR-146b via an IL-10-mediated STAT3-dependent loop. We show evidence that miR-146b modulates the TLR4 signaling pathway by direct targeting of multiple elements, including the LPS receptor TLR4 and the key adaptor/signaling proteins myeloid differentiation primary response (MyD88), interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1), and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6). Furthermore, we demonstrate that the enforced expression of miR-146b in human monocytes led to a significant reduction in the LPS-dependent production of several proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, including IL-6, TNF-α, IL-8, CCL3, CCL2, CCL7, and CXCL10. Our results thus identify miR-146b as an IL-10-responsive miR with an anti-inflammatory activity based on multiple targeting of components of the TLR4 pathway in monocytes and candidate miR-146b as a molecular effector of the IL-10 anti-inflammatory activity.
Modulation of nuclear factor KappaB (NF-κB) activation may play a role in regulating inflammatory conditions associated with coronary artery disease (CAD). MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) primarily targets interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) and tumour necrosis factor receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF-6), which results in inhibition of NF-κB via the TLR pathway. This study investigated the influence of the miR-146a GC rs2910164 on miR-146a expression in young South African Indians with CAD. CAD patients and controls were genotyped by PCR-RFLP and miRNA-146a levels were measured by qPCR. IRAK-1, TRAF-6 and NF-κB expression was determined by Western blot. No differences in genotypic frequency was found (GG: 45 vs. 47%, GC: 46 vs. 41%, CC: 9 vs. 12%) in controls and patients respectively (odds ratio = 1.025; 95% confidence interval 0.6782-1.550; p = 0.9164). Significantly higher levels of miR-146a was associated with CAD patients with the CC genotype (6.25-fold increase relative to controls and patients with the wildtype variant, p < 0.0001). Significantly lower levels of IRAK-1 (0.38 ± 0.02; p = 0.0072) and TRAF-6 (0.44 ± 0.02; p = 0.0146) was found in CAD patients with the CC genotype. The lowest levels of NF-κB and C-reactive protein were found in patients with the homozygous C allele compared to the heterozygous GC and wildtype variants. We propose a role for miR-146a in TLR signalling through a negative feedback mechanism involving the attenuation of NF-κB by down-regulation of IRAK-1 and TRAF-6. Our observations implicate miR-146a as a target for lowering inflammation in CAD patients.
AIM: We isolated Lactobacillus brevis G-101 from kimchi lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains, which induced IL-10 expression in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. To evaluate the inflammatory effect of G-101, we examined its inhibitory effect in 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitic mice.MATERIALS AND RESULTS: The colitic mice were prepared by intrarectal injection of TNBS. We measured intestinal mucosal cytokines by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; activation of transcription factors, by immunoblotting; and macrophage polarization markers, by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Of 200 LAB strains tested, Lact. brevis G-101 showed most potent activity for induction of IL-10 expression in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. However, it significantly inhibited the expression of TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 and the phosphorylation of IRAK1 and AKT, and activated NF-κB and MAPKs. Treatment with TNBS caused colon shortening; increased myeloperoxidase activity; and increased IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α expression in mice. Oral administration of Lact. brevis G-101 significantly inhibited these activities. Lactobacillus brevis G-101 inhibited TNBS-induced IRAK-1 phosphorylation and NF-κB activation, as well as the expression of COX-2 and iNOS. Lactobacillus brevis G-101 inhibited the expression of M1 macrophage markers, but increased the expression of M2 macrophages in the colons of TNBS-treated mice.CONCLUSIONS: Lactobacillus brevis G-101 may improve colitis by inhibiting the IRAK1/NF-κB, MAPK and AKT pathways and by polarizing M1 macrophages to M2-like macrophages.SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: These results suggest that IL-10 expression-inducing LAB can ameliorate colitis by inhibiting NF-κB activation and macrophage polarization.
Quercetin is a major bioflavonoid widely present in fruits and vegetables. It exhibits anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor, antioxidant properties and reduces cardiovascular disease risks. However, the molecular mechanism of action against inflammation in RAW 264.7 cells is only partially explored. Quercetin effect on LPS-induced gene and protein expressions of inflammatory mediators and cytokines were determined. Moreover, involvement of heme-oxygenase-1, protein kinases, adaptor proteins and transcription factors in molecular mechanism of quercetin action against inflammation were examined. Quercetin inhibited LPS-induced NO, PGE₂, iNOS, COX-2, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and GM-CSF mRNA and protein expressions while it promoted HO-1 induction in a dose- and time-dependent manner. It also suppressed I-κB-phosphorylation, NF-κB translocation, AP-1 and NF-κB-DNA-binding and reporter gene transcription. Quercetin attenuated p38(MAPK) and JNK1/2 but not ERK1/2 activations and this effect was further confirmed by SB203580 and SP600125-mediated suppressions of HO-1, iNOS, and COX-2 protein expressions. Moreover, quercetin arrested Src, PI3K, PDK1 and Akt activation in a time- and dose-dependent manner, which was comparable to PP2 and LY294002 inhibition of Src, PI3K/Akt and iNOS expressions. Quercetin further arrested Src and Syk tyrosine phosphorylations and their kinase activities followed by inhibition of PI3K tyrosine phosphorylation. Moreover, quercetin disrupted LPS-induced p85 association to TLR4/MyD88 complex and it then limited activation of IRAK1, TRAF6 and TAK1 with a subsequent reduction in p38 and JNK activations, and suppression in IKKα/β-mediated I-κB phosphorylation. Quercetin limits LPS-induced inflammation via inhibition of Src- and Syk-mediated PI3K-(p85) tyrosine phosphorylation and subsequent TLR4/MyD88/PI3K complex formation that limits activation of downstream signaling pathways.
Clinical evidence demonstrates that ubiquinol-10, the reduced active form of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10H₂), improves endothelial function through its antioxidant and probably its anti-inflammatory properties. We previously reported that a biomarker combination including miR-146a, its target protein IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK-1), and released interleukin (IL)-6, here collectively designated as MIRAKIL, indicates senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) acquisition by primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). We explore the ability of short- and long-term CoQ10H₂ supplementation to affect MIRAKIL in HUVECs, used as a model of vascular aging, during replicative senescence in the absence/presence of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a proinflammatory stimulus. Senescent HUVECs had the same ability as young cells to internalize CoQ10 and exhibit an improved oxidative status. LPS-induced NF-κB activation diminished after CoQ10H₂ pretreatment in both young and senescent cells. However, short-term CoQ10H₂ supplementation attenuated LPS-induced MIRAKIL changes in young cells; in senescent cells CoQ10H₂ supplementation significantly attenuated LPS-induced miR-146a and IRAK-1 modulation but failed to curb IL-6 release. Similar results were obtained with long-term CoQ10H₂ incubation. These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms by which CoQ10H₂ stems endothelial cell inflammatory responses and delays SASP acquisition. These phenomena may play a role in preventing the endothelial dysfunction associated with major age-related diseases.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress occurs when unfolded proteins accumulate in the lumen of the organelle, triggering signal transduction events that contribute either to cellular adaptation and recovery or alternatively to cellular dysfunction and death. ER stress has been implicated in numerous diseases. To identify novel modulators of ER stress, we undertook a siRNA library screen of the kinome, revealing Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinase-2 (IRAK2) as a contributor to unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling and ER stress-induced cell death. Knocking down expression of IRAK2 (but not IRAK1) in cultured mammalian cells suppresses ER stress-induced expression of the pro-apoptotic transcription factor CHOP and activation of stress kinases. Similarly, RNAi-mediated silencing of the IRAK family member Tube (but not Pelle) suppresses activation of stress kinase signaling induced by ER stress in Drosophila cells. The action of IRAK2 maps to the IRE1 pathway, rather than the PERK or ATF6 components of the UPR. Interestingly, ER stress also induces IRAK2 gene expression in an IRE1/XBP1-dependent manner, suggesting a mutually supporting amplification loop involving IRAK2 and IRE1. In vivo, ER stress induces Irak2 expression in mice. Moreover, Irak2 gene knockout mice display defects in ER stress-induced CHOP expression and IRE1 pathway signaling. These findings demonstrate an unexpected linkage of the innate immunity machinery to UPR signaling, revealing IRAK2 as a novel amplifier of the IRE1 pathway.
TRAF-interacting protein with a forkhead-associated domain (TIFA) is a tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) binding protein that mediates IL-1 signaling. We recently reported that TIFA mRNA is significantly upregulated early in the liver after trauma and hemorrhagic shock. In this study, we sought to characterize the upregulation of TIFA by hypoxia-reoxygenation and investigate its role in hypoxia-induced signaling. TIFA expression was detected by qRT-PCR and Western blotting in both mouse hemorrhagic shock with resuscitation (HS-R) and hepatocytes exposed to hypoxia-reoxygenation. Involvement of TLR4 and MyD88 was assessed using cells from TLR4(-/-) and MyD88(-/-) mice. The interaction of TIFA with TRAF6 and IRAK-1 was investigated using coimmunoprecipitation in vitro. RNAi was performed to knock down the endogenous expression of the TIFA gene in hepatocytes. High-mobility-group box 1 protein (HMGB1) expression was detected by Western blotting and ELISA, and the activation of NF-κB and MAPK was measured with EMSA and Western blotting. The results showed that TIFA expression was upregulated after HS-R in vivo and hypoxia-reoxygenation in vitro. Further analysis revealed that hypoxia-reoxygenation-induced upregulation of TIFA was TLR4- and MyD88-dependent. Moreover, TIFA was found to associate with TRAF6 constitutively, whereas its association with IRAK-1 was seen only after hypoxia-reoxygenation. Suppression of TIFA by siRNA reduced NF-κB activation and HMGB1 upregulation and release after hypoxia-reoxygenation. Taken together, these data suggest that TIFA is involved in the regulation of cell signaling in hypoxia-reoxygenation. The increase in TIFA level appears to be a feed-forward mechanism involved in TLR4/MyD88-dependent signaling, leading to NF-κB activation and HMGB1 release.
AIM: To investigate the influence of Enterococcus faecalis lipoteichoic acid (LTA) on the key bone resorption-regulating proteins, receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL) and osteoprotegerin (OPG) in human periodontal ligament fibroblasts (PDL cells).METHODOLOGY: Periodontal ligament cells were subjected to various concentrations of LTA. Cell viability was then determined by methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT) assay, whilst the expression levels of RANKL and OPG were investigated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Western blotting. The effect of the inhibitors [IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1/4, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) (SB203580)] on LTA-stimulated RANKL/OPG activation was examined. Cell viability and RANKL/OPG ratio in PDL cells were also analysed by MTT assay and Western blotting. Data were analysed using one-way anova or t-test at a significance level of P = 0.05.RESULT: Cell viability was reduced significantly in the LTA group in a dose-dependent fashion (P < 0.05). In addition, LTA was found to upregulate the protein expression of RANKL, OPG and their relative ratio in PDL cells (P < 0.05). The optimal concentration of LTA used in PDL cells was determined to be 10 μg mL(-1) . Following IRAK1/4 and p38MAPK inhibition, LTA-stimulated increases of RANKL/OPG ratio were significantly reduced (P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: Enterococcus faecalis LTA could upregulate the expression of RANKL and OPG at different rates, suggesting a potential role for LTA in the bone resorption process of refractory apical periodontitis through the regulation of RANKL and OPG. In addition, IRAK1/4 and p38MAPK signalling involving RANKL/OPG may contribute to inflammatory responses from PDL cells.
Metal orthopedic implant debris-induced osteolysis of hip bone is a major problem in patients with prosthetic-hips. Although macrophages are the principal targets for implant-wear debris, the receptor(s) and mechanisms underlying these responses are not fully elucidated. We examined whether the TLR4 pathway mediates immune response to metal-on-metal (MoM) implant-generated wear particles. Human monocytes (THP-1) were exposed to Co-alloy particles at increasing particle:cell ratio for 24 h. Challenge with particles caused up-regulation of IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-8, and mediated degradation of cytosolic I-κB and nuclear translocation of NF-κB. Blocking antibodies against TLR4 or gene silencing of MyD88 and IRAK-1 prevented particle-induced I-κB/NF-κB activation response and markedly inhibited IL-8 release. Particle-mediated IL-8 response was not observed in TLR4-negative HEK293T cells; whereas transfection-based TLR4-overexpression in HEK293T enabled particle-sensitivity, as observed by I-κB degradation and IL-8 expression in response to particles. Results demonstrate that Co-alloy particles trigger immune response via the TLR4-MyD88-dependent signaling pathway.
BACKGROUND: Although various microRNAs (miRNAs) regulate immune and inflammatory responses, the function of miRNAs in periodontitis has not been clearly illuminated. In this study, we measured miRNA-146 (miRNA-146a and miRNA-146b-5p) expression and explored its regulatory function in the inflammatory response in human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs).METHODS: miRNA-146a and miRNA-146b-5p expression was measured by performing real-time polymerase chain reaction in HGFs after Porphyromonas gingivalis (p.g) lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. After the HGFs were transfected with miRNA-146a and miRNA-146b-5p inhibitor, the expression levels of interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Meanwhile, IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) were detected by western blot and quantitative PCR. A luciferase assay was used to detect whether miRNA-146 could directly bind to the 3'-UTR of IRAK1.RESULTS: The expression levels of miRNA-146a and miRNA-146b-5p significantly increased in the P.g LPS-stimulated HGFs compared to the non-stimulated HGFs. The inhibition of miRNA-146a and miRNA-146b-5p resulted in increased IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α secretion. The mRNA and protein levels of IRAK1, but not TRAF6, also increased. We further found that miRNA-146a and miRNA-146b-5p directly bound to the IRAK1 3'-UTR.CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that miRNA-146 inhibits pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion through IRAK1 in HGFs, which indicates that miRNA-146 functions as a negative regulator of periodontal inflammation.
Rheumatic heart disease (RHD) is characterized by the presence of anti-streptococcal group A antibodies and anti-endothelial cell antibodies (AECA). Molecular mimicry between streptococcal antigens and self proteins is a hallmark of the pathogenesis of rheumatic fever. We aimed to identify, in RHD patients, autoantibodies specific to endothelial autoantigens cross-reactive with streptococcal proteins and to evaluate their role in inducing endothelial damage. We used an immunoproteomic approach with endothelial cell-surface membrane proteins in order to identify autoantigens recognized by AECA of 140 RHD patients. Cross-reactivity of purified antibodies with streptococcal proteins was analysed. Homologous peptides recognized by serum cross-reactive antibodies were found through comparing the amino acid sequence of streptococcal antigens with human antigens. To investigate interleukin (IL)-1R-associated kinase (IRAK1) and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation, we performed a Western blot analysis of whole extracts proteins from unstimulated or stimulated human microvascular cardiac endothelial cells (HMVEC-C). Adhesion molecule expression and release of proinflammatory cytokines and growth factors were studied by multiplex bead based immunoassay kits. We observed anti-vimentin antibodies in sera from 49% RHD AECA-positive patients. Cross-reactivity of purified anti-vimentin antibodies with heat shock protein (HSP)70 and streptopain streptococcal proteins was shown. Comparing the amino acid sequence of streptococcal HSP70 and streptopain with human vimentin, we found two homologous peptides recognized by serum cross-reactive antibodies. These antibodies were able to stimulate HMVEC-C inducing IRAK and NF-κB activation, adhesion molecule expression and release of proinflammatory cytokines and growth factors. In conclusion, streptococcal-vimentin cross-reactive antibodies were able to activate microvascular cardiac endothelium by amplifying the inflammatory response in RHD.
The human newborn infant is susceptible to gut inflammatory disorders. In particular, growth-restricted infants or infants born prematurely may develop a severe form of intestinal inflammation known as necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), which has a high mortality. Milk provides a multitude of proteins with anti-inflammatory properties and in this review we gather together some recent significant advances regarding the isolation and proteomic identification of these minor constituents of both human and bovine milk. We introduce the process of inflammation, with a focus on the immature gut, and describe how a multitude of milk proteins act against the inflammatory process according to both in vitro and in vivo studies. We highlight the effects of milk proteins such as caseins, and of whey proteins such as alpha-lactalbumin, beta-lactoglobulin, lactoferrin, osteopontin, immunoglobulins, trefoil factors, lactoperoxidase, superoxide dismutase, platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase, alkaline phosphatase, and growth factors (TGF-β, IGF-I and IGF-II, EGF, HB-EGF). The effects of milk fat globule proteins, such as TLR-2, TLR-4, sCD14 and MFG-E8/lactadherin, are also discussed. Finally, we indicate how milk proteins could be useful for the prophylaxis and therapy of intestinal inflammation in infants and children.
Synthetic forms of E. coli monophosphoryl lipid A (sMLA) weakly activate the MyD88 (myeloid differentiation primary response protein) branch of the bifurcated TLR4 (Toll-like receptor 4) signaling pathway, in contrast to diphosphoryl lipid A (sDLA), which is a strong activator of both branches of TLR4. sMLA's weak MyD88 signaling activity is apparent downstream of TLR4/MyD88 signaling as we show that sMLA, unlike sDLA, is unable to efficiently recruit the TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) to the Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). This reduced recruitment of TRAF6 explains MLA's lower MAPK (Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase) and NF-κB activity. As further tests of sMLA's ability to activate TLR4/Myeloid differentiation factor 2 (MD-2), we used the antibody MTS510 as an indicator for TLR4/MD-2 heterotetramer formation. Staining patterns with this antibody indicated that sMLA does not effectively drive heterotetramerization of TLR4/MD-2 when compared to sDLA. However, a F126A mutant of MD-2, which allows lipid A binding but interferes with TLR4/MD-2 heterotetramerization, revealed that while sMLA is unable to efficiently form TLR4/MD-2 heterotetramers, it still needs heterotetramer formation for the full extent of signaling it is able to achieve. Monophosphoryl lipid A's weak ability to form TLR4/MD-2 heterotetramers was not restricted to synthetic E. coli type because cells exposed to a biological preparation of S. minnesota monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) also showed reduced TLR4/MD-2 heterotetramer formation. The low potency with which sMLA and MPLA drive heterotetramerization of TLR4/MD-2 contributes to their weak MyD88 signaling activities.
TLR signaling is a crucial component of the innate immune response to infection. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to be upregulated during TLR signaling. Specifically, microRNA-146a (miR-146a) plays a key role in endotoxin tolerance by downregulating interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1). The aim of this study was to assess the role of miR-146a in the TLR2 signaling and development of bacterial lipoprotein (BLP) self-tolerance and cross-tolerance to bacteria. Expression of miR-146a increased in a dose- and time-dependent manner in BLP-stimulated human THP-1 promonocytic cells. In BLP-tolerised cells miR-146a was even further upregulated in response to BLP re-stimulation (p<0.001). Re-stimulation of BLP-tolerised cells with heat-killed gram-negative Salmonella typhimurium (S. typhimurium), but not gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), led to significant overexpression of miR-146a (p<0.05). Transfection of naive cells with a miR-146a mimic substantially suppressed TNF-α production (p<0.05). Furthermore, overexpression of miR-146a resulted in strong reduction in IRAK-1 and phosphorylated IκBα expression in naive and S. typhimurium-stimulated THP-1 cells. Collectively, miR-146a is upregulated in response to BLP and bacterial stimulation in both naive and BLP-tolerised cells. Overexpression of miR-146a induces a state analogous to tolerance in BLP-stimulated cells and therefore may represent a future target for exogenous modulation of tolerance during microbial infection and sepsis.
Upon recognition of viral components by pattern recognition receptors, such as the toll-like receptors (TLRs) and retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like helicases, cells are activated to produce type I interferon (IFN) and proinflammatory cytokines. These pathways are tightly regulated by the host to prevent an inappropriate cellular response, but viruses can modulate these pathways to proliferate and spread. In this study, we revealed a novel mechanism in which hepatitis C virus (HCV) evades the immune surveillance system to proliferate by activating microRNA-21 (miR-21). We demonstrated that HCV infection upregulates miR-21, which in turn suppresses HCV-triggered type I IFN production, thus promoting HCV replication. Furthermore, we demonstrated that miR-21 targets two important factors in the TLR signaling pathway, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), which are involved in HCV-induced type I IFN production. HCV-mediated activation of miR-21 expression requires viral proteins and several signaling components. Moreover, we identified a transcription factor, activating protein-1 (AP-1), which is partly responsible for miR-21 induction in response to HCV infection through PKCε/JNK/c-Jun and PKCα/ERK/c-Fos cascades. Taken together, our results indicate that miR-21 is upregulated during HCV infection and negatively regulates IFN-α signaling through MyD88 and IRAK1 and may be a potential therapeutic target for antiviral intervention.
Comment in    J Clin Invest. 2013 May;123(5):1925-7.
The current treatment for glioblastoma includes temozolomide (TMZ) chemotherapy, yet the mechanism of action of TMZ is not thoroughly understood. Here, we investigated the TMZ-induced changes in the proteome of the glioma-derived cell line (U251) by 2D DIGE. We found 95 protein spots to be significantly altered in their expression after TMZ treatment. MS identified four upregulated spots: aspartyl tRNA synthetase glutathione synthetase, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-4 (IRAK4), and breast carcinoma amplified sequence-1 and one downregulated spot: optineurin. TMZ-induced regulation of these five genes was validated by RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis. RNAi-mediated knockdown of IRAK4, an important mediator of Toll-like receptors signaling and chemoresistance, rendered the glioma cells resistant to TMZ. High levels of IRAK4 induced upon TMZ treatment resulted in IRAK1 downregulation and inhibition of NFkB pathway. Endogenous IRAK4 protein, but not transcript levels in glioma cell lines, correlated with TMZ sensitivity. Thus, we have identified several TMZ-modulated proteins and discovered an important novel role for IRAK4 in determining TMZ sensitivity of glioma cells through its ability to inhibit Toll-like receptor signaling and NFkB pathway.
PURPOSE: The inflammatory response of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is implicated in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration. The microRNAs miR-146a and miR-146b-5p can regulate the inflammatory process by attenuating cytokine signaling via the nuclear factor-κB pathway. The aim of the present study is to investigate the expression of miR-146a and miR-146b-5p in human RPE cells and their response to proinflammatory cytokines.METHODS: Confluent cultures of RPE cells established from adult human donor eyes were treated with the proinflammatory cytokines interferon (IFN)-γ, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and interleukin (IL)-1β. The expression of microRNAs was analyzed by real-time PCR using total RNA fraction. The retinal pigment epithelial cell line ARPE-19 was employed to analyze the promoter activity of the genes encoding miR-146a and miR-146b-5p. STAT1-binding activity of oligonucleotides was analyzed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. ARPE-19 cells were transiently transfected with miR-146a and miR-146b-5p mimics for the analysis of IRAK1 expression by western immunoblotting.RESULTS: Real-time PCR analysis showed that miR-146a and 146b-5p are expressed in RPE cells. The cells responded to proinflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ + TNF-α + IL-1β) by highly increasing the expression of both miR-146a and miR-146b-5p. This was associated with an increase in the expression of transcripts for CCL2, CCL5, CXCL9, CXCL10, and IL-6, and a decrease in that for HMOX1. The miR-146a induction was more dependent on IL-1β, since its omission from the cytokine mix resulted in a greatly reduced response. Similarly, the induction of miR-146b-5p was more dependent on IFN-γ, since its omission from the cytokine mix minimized the effect. In addition, the increase in MIR146B promoter activity by the cytokine mix was effectively blocked by JAK inhibitor 1, a known inhibitor of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. The expression of IRAK1 protein was decreased when ARPE-19 cells were transiently transfected with either miR-146a mimic or miR-146b-5p mimic.CONCLUSIONS: Our results clearly show that both miR-146a and miR-146b-5p are expressed in human RPE cells in culture and their expression is highly induced by proinflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ + TNF-α + IL-1β). The induction of miR-146a showed a dependency on IL-1β, while that of miR-146b-5p on IFN-γ. Our results show for the first time that miR-146b-5p expression is regulated by IFN-γ, potentially via the JAK/STAT pathway. These two microRNAs could play a role in inflammatory processes underlying age-related macular degeneration or other retinal degenerative diseases through their ability to negatively regulate the nuclear factor-κB pathway by targeting the expression of IRAK1.
Erratum in    Transplant Proc. 2020 Nov;52(9):2861.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether the systemic sclerosis (SSc)-associated IRAK1 non-synonymous single-nucleotide polymorphism rs1059702 is responsible for the Xq28 association with SSc or whether there are other independent signals in the nearby methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 gene (MECP2).METHODS: We analysed a total of 3065 women with SSc and 2630 unaffected controls from five independent Caucasian cohorts. Four tag single-nucleotide polymorphisms of MECP2 (rs3027935, rs17435, rs5987201 and rs5945175) and the IRAK1 variant rs1059702 were genotyped using TaqMan predesigned assays. A meta-analysis including all cohorts was performed to test the overall effect of these Xq28 polymorphisms on SSc.RESULTS: IRAK1 rs1059702 and MECP2 rs17435 were associated specifically with diffuse cutaneous SSc (PFDR=4.12×10(-3), OR=1.27, 95% CI 1.09 to 1.47, and PFDR=5.26×10(-4), OR=1.30, 95% CI 1.14 to 1.48, respectively), but conditional logistic regression analysis showed that the association of IRAK1 rs1059702 with this subtype was explained by that of MECP2 rs17435. On the other hand, IRAK1 rs1059702 was consistently associated with presence of pulmonary fibrosis (PF), because statistical significance was observed when comparing SSc patients PF+ versus controls (PFDR=0.039, OR=1.30, 95% CI 1.07 to 1.58) and SSc patients PF+ versus SSc patients PF- (p=0.025, OR=1.26, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.55).CONCLUSIONS: Our data clearly suggest the existence of two independent signals within the Xq28 region, one located in IRAK1 related to PF and another in MECP2 related to diffuse cutaneous SSc, indicating that both genes may have an impact on the clinical outcome of the disease.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine the association of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) polymorphisms (rs3027898, rs1059702) with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in a Chinese Han population.METHODS: A total of 667 SLE patients and 667 healthy controls were collected in this study. The genotyping of polymorphisms (rs3027898, rs1059702) was determined by TaqMan allele discrimination assay on the 7300 real-time polymerase chain reaction system. The statistical analysis was conducted by chi square test or Fisher's exact test.RESULTS: The frequency of C allele for rs3027898 in patients was significantly higher than in controls (C versus A: OR = 1.438, 95 % CI = 1.180-1.753, p < 0.001), and a similar association was shown in rs1059702 (A versus G: OR = 1.383, 95 % CI = 1.143-1.674, p = 0.001). Interestingly, the C allele of rs3027898 was associated with a decreased risk for patients with oral ulcers. However, no significant difference was detected in IRAK1 rs1059702 polymorphism and the clinical manifestations.CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that the polymorphisms rs3027898 and rs1059702 of IRAK1 gene are associated with SLE in the Chinese Han population.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: TRIF is one of the main intracellular adaptor proteins required for TLR3 and 4 signaling. Abnormal gene expression of TRIF may lead to abrogated immune responses against viral infections including hepatitis B infection. The aim of this study was to identify the mRNA levels of TRIF in PBMCs isolated from chronic HBV (CHB) infected patients.MATERIAL AND METHODS: mRNA was isolated from 63 CHB patients and 60 healthy controls and transcript levels of TRIF were examined in parallel with beta-actin (as housekeeping gene) using Real-Time PCR techniques.RESULTS: Our results demonstrated that expression of TRIF was significantly decreased in PBMCs isolated from CHB patients when compared to healthy controls.CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results reported here, it seems that CHB patients are unable to express appropriate levels of the TRIF gene, which may attenuate TLR3 and 4 signaling subsequent to HBV infection. Our results suggest a possible mechanism, which may explain why hepatitis B infection is stable in CHB patients.
Comment in    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2013 Apr;9(4):197.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Archidendron clypearia Jack. (Fabaceae) is a representative ethnomedicinal herbal plant prescribed for various inflammatory diseases such as pharyngolaryngitis and tonsillitis. However, the pharmacology behind this plant's anti-inflammatory properties has not been fully understood. Therefore, in this study, the anti-inflammatory mechanism of a 95% methanol extract (Ac-ME) was explored.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The anti-inflammatory mechanism of Ac-ME on the AP-1 activation pathway, which plays a critical role in the production of prostaglandin (PG)E2 in RAW264.7 cells and peritoneal macrophages and in induction of acute gastritis caused by HCl/EtOH, was investigated using immunoblotting, immunoprecipitation analyses, and reporter gene activity assays. In particular, enzyme assays and HPLC analysis were employed to identify direct target enzymes of Ac-ME and to detect active chemical components from the plant extract.RESULTS: Ac-ME clearly reduced the nuclear levels of total and phospho-forms of c-Jun, FRA-1, and ATF-2. Consequently, this extract suppressed both the production of PGE2 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated RAW264.7 and peritoneal macrophage cells and PGE2-dependent induction of gastritis lesion in stomach under EtOH/HCl exposure. Analysis of AP-1 upstream signalling revealed that the AP-1 activation pathway consisting of IRAK1, TRAF6, TAK1, MKK3/6, and p38 was predominantly inhibited by Ac-ME. Similarly, this extract directly blocked the enzyme activity of IRAK1, indicating that this enzyme is an inhibitory target of Ac-ME and is involved in the suppression of the AP-1 pathway. HPLC analysis showed that quercetin, which inhibits PGE2 production, is an active component in Ac-ME.CONCLUSION: Ac-ME is an ethnomedicinal remedy with an IRAK1/p38/AP-1-targeted inhibitory property. Since AP-1 is a major inflammation-inducing transcription factor, the therapeutic potential of Ac-ME in other AP-1-mediated inflammatory symptoms will be further tested.
Mast cells are important cellular constituents of epithelial-mesenchymal interactions, densely located at sites of microbial entry into the host where they are continuously exposed to products from commensals. In order to avoid excessive activation and the associated pathology, mast cell responses to TLR agonists must be tightly regulated. Here, we show that exposure in vitro to subactivating levels of the epithelial cell product, IL-33, renders mast cells insensitive to bacterial cell wall products. Mast cell responsiveness to Ag, cytoplasmic dsDNA, and TLR7/8 agonists is unaffected or enhanced by IL-33. The IL-33-induced mast cell selective tolerance requires the IL-33 receptor ST2 and peritoneal mast cells from St2(-/-) mice display a constitutively activated phenotype, demonstrated by increased expression of activation markers including CD11b and CD28. IL-33 exposure neither affects the levels of TLR4, MyD88, TIRAP, IL-1R associated kinase 2 (IRAK2), or IRAK4, nor induces persistent A20 or Tollip expression, but potently causes ST2-dependent IRAK1 degradation. We show that while IRAK2 is redundant for TLR4 signaling, IRAK1 is essential for TLR4 signaling in mast cells. We suggest that IL-33 produced during homeostasis retains mast cells in an unresponsive state to bacterial cell wall products via IRAK1 degradation, thus preventing chronic inflammation and tissue destruction.
IRAK1 is involved in the regulation of type I IFN production downstream of TLR3. Previous work indicated that IRAK1 negatively regulates TRIF-mediated activation of IRF3 and IRF7. We report that IRAK1 limits the activation of the TLR3-NF-κB pathway. Following TLR3 stimulation, IRAK1-deficient macrophages produced increased levels of IL-6 and IFN-β compared with wild type macrophages. Pharmacological inhibition of TAK1 reduced this increase in IFN-β, together with the heightened activation of IRF3 and p65 found in TLR3-ligand stimulated IRAK1-deficient macrophages. Recently, IKKε and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) were reported to limit activation of the NF-κB pathway downstream of IL-1R, TNFR1, and TLRs. We show that TBK1 has a positive role in the TLR3-NF-κB pathway, because we detected reduced levels of IL-6 and reduced activation of p65 in TBK1-deficient macrophages. In contrast, we show that IKKε limits the activation of the TLR3-NF-κB pathway. Furthermore, we show that IRAK1 is required for the activation of IKKε downstream of TLR3. We report impaired activation of ERK1/2 in IRAK1- and IKKε-deficient macrophages, a novel finding for both kinases. Importantly, this work provides novel mechanistic insight into the regulation of the TLR3-signaling pathway, providing strong evidence that an IRAK1-IKKε-signaling axis acts to limit the production of both type I IFNs and proinflammatory cytokines by regulating TAK1 activity.
OBJECTIVE: In OA, there is enhanced expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β in the affected joint. Delphinidin, an anthocyanidin found in pigmented fruits and vegetables, has been shown to possess anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. In the present study we determined whether delphinidin would inhibit the IL-1β-induced activation of NF-κB in human chondrocytes and determined the mechanism of its action.METHODS: PGE2 levels and activation of NF-κB p65 in human OA chondrocytes were determined by ELISA-based assays. Protein expression of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) and phosphorylation of kinases was determined by western immunoblotting. Expression level of mRNAs was determined by TaqMan assays.RESULTS: Delphinidin inhibited IL-1β-induced expression of COX-2 and production of PGE2 in human chondrocytes. Delphinidin also inhibited IL-1β-mediated phosphorylation of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase-1(Ser376), phosphorylation of IKKα/β, expression of IKKβ, degradation of IκBα, and activation and nuclear translocation of NF-κB/p65. Phosphorylation of TGF-β-activated kinase 1 was not observed but NF-κB-inducing kinase (NIK) was phosphorylated and phosphorylation of NIK was blocked by delphinidin in IL-1β-treated human chondrocytes.CONCLUSION: These data identify delphinidin as a novel inhibitor of IL-1β-induced production of cartilage-degrading molecule PGE2 via inhibition of COX-2 expression and provide new insight into the mechanism of its action. Our results also identify inhibition of IRAK1(Ser376) phosphorylation by delphinidin in IL-1β-induced activation of NF-κB in human chondrocytes. Given the important role played by IL-1β-induced NF-κB activation, COX-2 expression and PGE2 production in OA, our results may have important implications for the development of novel therapeutic strategies for the prevention/treatment of OA.
BACKGROUND: Cancer is a complex disease where molecular mechanism remains elusive. A systems approach is needed to integrate diverse biological information for the prognosis and therapy risk assessment using mechanistic approach to understand gene interactions in pathways and networks and functional attributes to unravel the biological behaviour of tumors.RESULTS: We weighted the functional attributes based on various functional properties observed between cancerous and non-cancerous genes reported from literature. This weighing schema was then encoded in a Boolean logic framework to rank differentially expressed genes. We have identified 17 genes to be differentially expressed from a total of 11,173 genes, where ten genes are reported to be down-regulated via epigenetic inactivation and seven genes are up-regulated. Here, we report that the overexpressed genes IRAK1, CHEK1 and BUB1 may play an important role in ovarian cancer. We also show that these 17 genes can be used to form an ovarian cancer signature, to distinguish normal from ovarian cancer subjects and that the set of three genes, CHEK1, AR, and LYN, can be used to classify good and poor prognostic tumors.CONCLUSION: We provided a workflow using a Boolean logic schema for the identification of differentially expressed genes by integrating diverse biological information. This integrated approach resulted in the identification of genes as potential biomarkers in ovarian cancer.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) is a key regulator of the activation of transcription factor NF-κB by the interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R)/Toll-like receptor (TLR) superfamily. Recruitment of TRAF6 to the receptor-associated IRAK1-IRAK4-MyD88 adaptor protein complex induces lysine 63 (K63) autopolyubiquitination of TRAF6, which leads to further recruitment of downstream regulators, such as TAB2/3 and TAK1, and subsequently triggers NF-κB activation. Here, we identified the putative E2 ubiquitin-conjugating (UBC) enzyme UBE2O as a novel negative regulator of TRAF6-dependent NF-κB signaling. We found that UBE2O binds to TRAF6 to inhibit its K63-polyubiquitination, and to prevent the activation of NF-κB by IL-1β and lipopolysaccharides (LPS). We further show that the inhibitory effect of UBE2O is independent of its carboxy-terminal UBC domain. In contrast, we found that UBE2O acts to disrupt the IL-1β-induced association of TRAF6 with MyD88. These results provide novel insight into the regulation of signaling by IL-1R/TLR and TRAF6.
Toll-like receptors transduce their signals through the adaptor molecule MyD88 and members of the IL-1R-associated kinase family (IRAK-1, 2, M and 4). IRAK-1 and IRAK-2, known to form Myddosomes with MyD88-IRAK-4, mediate TLR7-induced TAK1-dependent NFκB activation. IRAK-M was previously known to function as a negative regulator that prevents the dissociation of IRAKs from MyD88, thereby inhibiting downstream signalling. However, we now found that IRAK-M was also able to interact with MyD88-IRAK-4 to form IRAK-M Myddosome to mediate TLR7-induced MEKK3-dependent second wave NFκB activation, which is uncoupled from post-transcriptional regulation. As a result, the IRAK-M-dependent pathway only induced expression of genes that are not regulated at the post-transcriptional levels (including inhibitory molecules SOCS1, SHIP1, A20 and IκBα), exerting an overall inhibitory effect on inflammatory response. On the other hand, through interaction with IRAK-2, IRAK-M inhibited TLR7-mediated production of cytokines and chemokines at translational levels. Taken together, IRAK-M mediates TLR7-induced MEKK3-dependent second wave NFκB activation to produce inhibitory molecules as a negative feedback for the pathway, while exerting inhibitory effect on translational control of cytokines and chemokines.
Seeds of Arctium lappa, containing arctigenin and its glycoside arctiin as main constituents, have been used as a diuretic, anti-inflammatory and detoxifying agent in Chinese traditional medicine. In our preliminary study, arctigenin inhibited IKKβ and NF-κB activation in peptidoglycan (PGN)- or lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced peritoneal macrophages. To understand the anti-inflammatory effect of arctigenin, we investigated its anti-inflammatory effect in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages and on LPS-induced systemic inflammation as well as 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in mice. Arctigenin inhibited LPS-increased IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α expression in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages, but increased LPS-reduced IL-10 and CD204 expression. Arctigenin inhibited LPS-induced PI3K, AKT and IKKβ phosphorylation, but did not suppress LPS-induced IRAK-1 phosphorylation. However, arctigenin did not inhibit NF-κB activation in LPS-stimulated PI3K siRNA-treated peritoneal macrophages. Arctigenin suppressed the binding of p-PI3K antibody and the nucleus translocation of NF-κB p65 in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Arctigenin suppressed blood IL-1β and TNF-α level in mice systemically inflamed by intraperitoneal injection of LPS. Arctigenin also inhibited colon shortening, macroscopic scores and myeloperoxidase activity in TNBS-induced colitic mice. Arctigenin inhibited TNBS-induced IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6 expression, as well as PI3K, AKT and IKKβ phosphorylation and NF-κB activation in mice, but increased IL-10 and CD204 expression. However, it did not affect IRAK-1 phosphorylation. Based on these findings, arctigenin may ameliorate inflammatory diseases, such as colitis, by inhibiting PI3K and polarizing M1 macrophages to M2-like macrophages.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are known to play a key role during orthodontic treatment leading to periodontal remodelling and tooth movement. MMPs may be induced by mechanical forces. However, the role played by toll-like receptors (TLRs) in modulating the effects of the mechanical force on periodontal fibroblasts is not known. To investigate the interaction between mechanical force and TLR stimulation, primary cultures of human periodontal fibroblasts were submitted to centrifugation in the presence of LPS and Pam3Cys, which are known TLR-4 and TLR-2 ligands, respectively. The expression of MMP-1, -2, -3, -8, -9, -10 and -13; TIMP (Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinases) -1, -2 and -4; TNF-α (Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha); IL-1β (Interleukin 1 beta); ERK 1/2 (Extracellular Signal-Regulated Kinase 1/2); p38; JNK (c-jun N-terminal Kinase); IRAK1 (Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinase); and NF-κB (Nuclear Factor kappa B) were measured by antibody array, ELISA and immunoblotting methods. The activation of TLRs associated with centrifugation induced an increase in the secretion of MMPs 1, 3 and 10, with no increase in TNF-α or IL-1β. An increase in the phosphorylation of the MAP kinases p38 and JNK and the transcription factor NF-κB, without an increase in TIMPs was also observed. These findings suggest that the secretion of MMPs by cultured periodontal fibroblasts that is induced by combined TLR activation and mechanical force stimulation is regulated via the p38, JNK and NF-κB pathways. The increased secretion of MMPs by TLR activation may be an important factor that should be considered during orthodontic treatment.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a clinical syndrome characterized by hypoxia, which is caused by the breakdown of the alveolar capillary barrier. Interleukin 1β (IL-1β), a cytokine released within the airspace in ALI, downregulates the α subunit of the epithelial sodium channel (αENaC) transcription and protein expression via p38 MAP kinase-dependent signaling. Although induction of the heat shock response can restore alveolar fluid clearance compromised by IL-1β following the onset of severe hemorrhagic shock in rats, the mechanisms are not fully understood. In this study, we report that the induction of the heat shock response prevents IL-1β-dependent inhibition of αENaC mRNA expression and subsequent channel function. Heat shock results in IRAK1 detergent insolubility and a disruption of Hsp90 binding to IRAK1. Likewise, TAK1, another client protein of Hsp90 and signaling component of the IL-1β pathway, is also detergent insoluble after heat shock. Twenty-four hours after heat shock, both IRAK1 and TAK1 are again detergent soluble, which correlates with the IL-1β-dependent p38 activation. Remarkably, IL-1β-dependent p38 activation 24 h after heat shock did not result in an inhibition of αENaC mRNA expression and channel function. Further analysis demonstrates prolonged preservation of αENaC expression by the activation of the heat shock response that involves inducible Hsp70. Inhibition of Hsp70 at 24 h after heat shock results in p38-dependent IL-1β inhibition of αENaC mRNA expression, whereas overexpression of Hsp70 attenuates the p38-dependent IL-1β inhibition of αENaC mRNA expression. These studies demonstrate new mechanisms by which the induction of the heat shock response protects the barrier function of the alveolar epithelium in ALI.
Interactions of proteins regulate signaling, catalysis, gene expression and many other cellular functions. Therefore, characterizing the entire human interactome is a key effort in current proteomics research. This challenge is complicated by the dynamic nature of protein-protein interactions (PPIs), which are conditional on the cellular context: both interacting proteins must be expressed in the same cell and localized in the same organelle to meet. Additionally, interactions underlie a delicate control of signaling pathways, e.g. by post-translational modifications of the protein partners - hence, many diseases are caused by the perturbation of these mechanisms. Despite the high degree of cell-state specificity of PPIs, many interactions are measured under artificial conditions (e.g. yeast cells are transfected with human genes in yeast two-hybrid assays) or even if detected in a physiological context, this information is missing from the common PPI databases. To overcome these problems, we developed a method that assigns context information to PPIs inferred from various attributes of the interacting proteins: gene expression, functional and disease annotations, and inferred pathways. We demonstrate that context consistency correlates with the experimental reliability of PPIs, which allows us to generate high-confidence tissue- and function-specific subnetworks. We illustrate how these context-filtered networks are enriched in bona fide pathways and disease proteins to prove the ability of context-filters to highlight meaningful interactions with respect to various biological questions. We use this approach to study the lung-specific pathways used by the influenza virus, pointing to IRAK1, BHLHE40 and TOLLIP as potential regulators of influenza virus pathogenicity, and to study the signalling pathways that play a role in Alzheimer's disease, identifying a pathway involving the altered phosphorylation of the Tau protein. Finally, we provide the annotated human PPI network via a web frontend that allows the construction of context-specific networks in several ways.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Rhodomyrtus tomentosa (Aiton) Hassk. is a representative Thai medicinal plant traditionally used in South Asian countries to relieve various inflammatory symptoms. However, no systematic studies on its anti-inflammatory activity and mechanisms have been reported.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effect of the methanol extract from the leaves of this plant (Rt-ME) on the production of inflammatory mediators [nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)] and the molecular mechanism of Rt-ME-mediated inhibition, including target enzymes, were studied with RAW264.7, peritoneal macrophage, and HEK293 cells. Additionally, the in vivo anti-inflammatory activity of this extract was evaluated with mouse gastritis and colitis models.RESULTS: Rt-ME clearly inhibited the production of NO and PGE2 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated RAW264.7 cells and peritoneal macrophages in a dose-dependent manner. According to RT-PCR, immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation analyses and a kinase assay with mRNA, whole cell extract, and nucleus lysates from RAW264.7 cells and mice, it was revealed that Rt-ME was capable of suppressing the activation of both nuclear factor (NF)-κB and activator protein (AP)-1 pathways by directly targeting Syk/Src and IRAK1/IRAK4.CONCLUSION: Rt-ME could have anti-inflammatory properties by suppressing Syk/Src/NF-kB and IRAK1/IRAK4/AP-1 pathways and will be further developed as a herbal remedy for preventive and/or curative purposes in various inflammatory diseases.
This study evaluated the effect of feeding a control diet (CON) or a moderate energy diet (overfed, OVE) during the dry period (∼45d) and a postpartum intramammary lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge on blood metabolic and inflammatory indices, milk production, and hepatic gene expression. A subset of cows (n=9/diet) in CON (1.34 Mcal/kg of dry matter) and OVE (1.62 Mcal/kg of dry matter) received an intramammary LPS challenge (200 μg; CON-LPS, OVE-LPS, respectively). Liver biopsies were harvested at -14 d from calving, and postpartum at 2.5h post-LPS on d 7, 14, and 30. Prepartum, the OVE group was in more positive energy balance (EB) and had greater body condition score compared with CON. In contrast, during wk 1 postpartum and before the LPS challenge, the OVE group was in greater negative EB than CON. Prepartal diet did not affect postpartal milk production or dry matter intake. At 2h postchallenge on d 7, we observed an increase in serum nonesterified fatty acids (NEFA) and bilirubin and a decrease in hydroxybutyrate, regardless of diet. That was coupled with greater haptoglobin in OVE-LPS compared with CON-LPS. In addition, OVE-LPS cows versus CON nonchallenged, OVE nonchallenged, and CON-LPS had greater liver triacylglycerol (TAG) concentration 2.5h postchallenge on d 7. The concentration of TAG in liver of OVE-LPS remained elevated by 30d postpartum. The liver TAG concentration in OVE-LPS compared with CON-LPS cows was associated with greater serum concentration of NEFA and reactive oxygen metabolites on d 10 and 14 postpartum. Cows in OVE-LPS also had greater concentrations of ceruloplasmin, cholesterol, and vitamin E from d 10 through 21. Among 28 genes associated with fatty acid oxidation, inflammation, oxidative stress, and gluconeogenesis, only SAA3 (which encodes an acute phase protein) was greater in CON-LPS compared with OVE-LPS at 2.5h postchallenge. Expression of HP, which encodes another acute phase protein, was greater in OVE-LPS than in CON-LPS at 14 and 30 d postpartum. Several inflammation-related genes (TNF, IRAK1, NFKB1, ANGPTL4) showed markedly decreased expression between 7 and 14 d, after which expression remained unchanged. No differences were observed in several genes of the growth-hormone/insulin-like growth factor-1 axis, except for SOCS2, expression of which decreased markedly between 7 and 14 d in OVE-LPS but not in CON-LPS. These data suggest that overfeeding a moderate-energy diet prepartum alters the response of the cow to an intramammary challenge after calving and may predispose it to sustained liver lipidosis.
MiRNAs have shown to regulate aging process at the level of cellular senescence, tissue aging, and lifespan of whole organism. Given that many miRNAs also function as important regulators of hematopoietic system as well as aging process, it is highly likely that miRNAs would be involved in the changes of myeloid function and differentiation during aging. Therefore, here we examine differential expression of miRNAs in aged myeloid lineage cells and assess if altered miRNA expression pattern would reflect the change of miRNA targets and related function. We demonstrated that the expressions of myelogenic miRNAs such as miR-155, miR-223, miR-146a, miR-146b, miR-132, miR-142-5p, and miR-142-3p were increased in aged bone marrow derived dendritic cells (BMDC) under normal and activated conditions. We also observed that the expressions of IRAK1 and TRAF6, the targets of miR-146a, and DC-SIGN, a target of miR-155 were diminished while miR-146a and miR-155 were augmented during aging. In addition, we found that the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, which is mediated by the activation of NF-kB pathway via IRAK1 and TRAF6, was greatly reduced in aged BMDC. Taken together, our data reveal that age-associated changes occur in miRNA expression in BMDC, and this altered miRNA expression affects miRNA target expression and compromises BMDC function such as cytokine production during aging.
BACKGROUND: Parkinson disease (PD) is characterized by a slow, progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantianigra. The cause of neuronal loss in PD is not well understood, but several genetic loci, including PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), have been linked to early-onset autosomal recessive forms of familial PD. Neuroinflammation greatly contributes to PD neuronal degeneration and pathogenesis. IL-1 is one of the principal cytokines that regulates various immune and inflammatory responses via the activation of the transcription factors NF-κB and activating protein-1. Despite the close relationship between PD and neuroinflammation, the functional roles of PD-linked genes during inflammatory processes remain poorly understood.METHODS: To explore the functional roles of PINK1 in response to IL-1β stimulation, HEK293 cells, mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from PINK1-null (PINK1-/-) and control (PINK1+/+) mice, and 293 IL-1RI cells stably expressing type 1 IL-1 receptor were used. Immunoprecipitation and western blot analysis were performed to detect protein-protein interaction and protein ubiquitination. To confirm the effect of PINK1 on NF-κB activation, NF-κB-dependent firefly luciferase reporter assay was conducted.RESULTS: PINK1 specifically binds two components of the IL-1-mediated signaling cascade, Toll-interacting protein (Tollip) and IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1). The association of PINK1 with Tollip, a negative regulator of IL-1β signaling, increases upon IL-1β stimulation, which then facilitates the dissociation of Tollip from IRAK1 as well as the assembly of the IRAK1-TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) complex. PINK1 also enhances Lys63-linked polyubiquitination of IRAK1, an essential modification of recruitment of NF-κB essential modulator and subsequent IκB kinase activation, and increases formation of the intermediate signalosome including IRAK1, TRAF6, and transforming growth factor-β activated kinase 1. Furthermore, PINK1 stimulates IL-1β-induced NF-κB activity via suppression of Tollip inhibitory action.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that PINK1 upregulates IL-1β-mediated signaling through the functional modulation of Tollip and IRAK1. These results further suggest that PINK1 stimulates the ubiquitination of proximal molecules and increases signalosome formation in the IL-1β-mediated signaling pathway. The present study therefore supports the idea of the close relationship between neuroinflammation and PD.
Aberrant CD40 expression by dendritic cells (DCs), induced by microbial stimuli, such as CpG, contributes to the pathogenesis of many human/murine diseases, particularly autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Given the importance of CD40 in these diseases, and the contribution of DCs to the diseases process, it is very important to investigate the mechanisms of CD40 expression induced by CpG on DCs. In this study, we made the observation that CpG-B is a potent inducer on CD40 expression on murine bone marrow-derived DCs. Based on this finding, we undertook an analysis of the molecular basis of CpG-induced CD40 expression on DCs. By using selective inhibitors, it was demonstrated that MAPKs (JNK and p38 MAPK but not ERK) and NF-κB were involved in CpG-induced CD40 expression on DCs. In addition, RNA interference analysis revealed that IRF8 was a key transcription factor in the basal expression of CD40 upon CpG stimulation. Moreover, up-regulating miRNA-146a in DCs effectively decreased CD40 expression by targeting TRAF6 and IRAK1. Thus, our results have elucidated the molecular mechanisms underlying CpG-induced CD40 expression and DC maturation.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether a human X chromosome locus of IRAK1 and MECP2 is associated with susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease that predominantly affects women.METHODS: A total of 2,334 unrelated Korean participants (including 1,318 patients with RA) were genotyped for 5 tag single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 3 additional SNPs in an Xq28 region harboring MECP2 and IRAK1. Twenty-nine additional neighboring SNPs were imputed using the Korean HapMap Project data. All 37 SNPs were statistically tested for association with RA susceptibility, and 2 SNPs associated with RA were examined for their functional effects.RESULTS: RA susceptibility was associated with multiple SNPs in a 79-kb linkage disequilibrium block harboring both MECP2 and IRAK1. The most significant association was for MECP2 SNP rs1734792 (P = 0.00089), but 2 nonsynonymous IRAK1 SNPs, rs1059702 (P = 0.0034) and rs1059703 (P = 0.0042), which were in strong linkage disequilibrium with the MECP2 SNP (D' = 0.87 and 0.91, respectively) affected IRAK1 protein activity. The major haplotype of the 2 nonsynonymous SNPs was associated with a 1.7-fold increase in RA susceptibility versus the minor haplotype (P = 0.0082), and with increased IRAK1 activity, which was demonstrated by a 1.7-fold increase in the intracellular activity of transcription factor NF-κB.CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that RA susceptibility is associated with multiple SNPs in MECP2 and IRAK1, but high linkage disequilibrium between them does not allow for further localization. Therefore, both genes remain candidates. Nevertheless, the major haplotype of the 2 nonsynonymous IRAK1 SNPs encoding for pPhe196Ser and pSer532Leu confers enhanced IRAK1 activity and, consequently, enhanced susceptibility to RA, as compared to the minor haplotype.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Hopea odorata Roxb. (Dipterocarpaceae) is a representative Thai ethnopharmacological herbal plant used in the treatment of various inflammation-related diseases. In spite of its traditional use, systematic studies of its anti-inflammatory action have not been performed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The inhibitory activities of a Hopea odorata methanol extract (Ho-ME) on the production of nitric oxide (NO), tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in RAW264.7 cells and peritoneal macrophages were investigated. The effects of Ho-ME on the gastritis symptoms induced by HCl/EtOH and on ear oedemas induced by arachidonic acid were also examined. Furthermore, to identify the immunopharmacological targets of this extract, nuclear fractionation, a reporter gene assay, immunoprecipitation, immunoblot analysis, and a kinase assay were employed.RESULTS: Ho-ME strongly inhibited the release of NO, PGE(2), and TNF-α in RAW264.7 cells and peritoneal macrophages stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Ho-ME also clearly suppressed the gene expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, such as interferon (IFN)-β, interleukin (IL)-12, and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1). By analysing the inhibited target molecules, Syk and Src were found to be suppressed in the inhibition of nuclear factor (NF)-κB pathway. In addition, the observed downregulation of activator protein (AP)-1 and cAMP response element-binding (CREB) was due to the direct inhibition of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)1 and IRAK4, which was also linked to the suppression of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38. In agreement with the in vitro observations, this extract also ameliorated the inflammatory symptoms in EtOH/HCl-induced gastritis and arachidonic acid-induced ear oedemas in mice.CONCLUSION: Ho-ME has potential as a functional herbal remedy targeting Syk- and Src-mediated anti-inflammatory mechanisms. Future pre-clinical studies will be needed to investigate this possibility.
AIMS: We have reported that either toll-like receptor 4 deficiency (TLR4(-/-)) or TLR2 modulation protects against myocardial ischaemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. The mechanisms involve attenuation of I/R-induced nuclear factor KappaB (NF-κB) activation. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) has been reported to target interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6), resulting in inhibiting NF-κB activation. This study examined the role of microRNA-146a in myocardial I/R injury.METHODS AND RESULTS: We constructed lentivirus expressing miR-146a (LmiR-146a). LmiR-146a was transfected into mouse hearts through the right common carotid artery. The lentivirus vector (LmiR-Con) served as vector control. Untransfected mice served as I/R control. Sham operation served as sham control. Seven days after transfection, the hearts were subjected to ischaemia (60 min) followed by reperfusion (4 h). Myocardial infarct size was analysed by triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. In separate experiments, the hearts were subjected to ischaemia (60 min) followed by reperfusion for up to 7 days. Cardiac function was measured by echocardiography prior to I/R, 3 and 7 days after myocardial I/R. LmiR-146a transfection significantly decreased I/R-induced myocardial infarct size by 55% and prevented I/R-induced decreases in ejection fraction (EF%) and fractional shortening (%FS). LmiR-146a transfection attenuated I/R-induced myocardial apoptosis and caspase-3/7 and -8 activities. LmiR-146a transfection suppresses IRAK1 and TRAF6 expression in the myocardium. In addition, transfection of LmiR-146a prevented I/R-induced NF-κB activation and inflammatory cytokine production.CONCLUSIONS: MicroRNA-146a protects the myocardium from I/R injury. The mechanisms may involve attenuation of NF-κB activation and inflammatory cytokine production by suppressing IRAK1 and TRAF6.
BACKGROUND: Expression profile of the toll like receptors (TLRs) on PBMCs is central to the regulation of proinflammatory markers. An imbalance in the TLRs expression may lead to several types of inflammatory disorders. Furthermore, the dynamic regulation of inflammatory activity and associated impaired production of cytokines by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in obese individulas remain poorly understood. Therefore, we determined the perturbation in TLRs (TLR2 and TLR4), their adaptor proteins (MyD88, IRAK1 and TRAF6) expression in PBMCs/subcutaneous adipose tissue (AT) as well as inflammatory cytokines changes in obese individuals.METHODS: mRNA expression levels of TLR2, TLR4, IL-6, TNF-α and adaptor proteins were determined by RT-PCR. TLR2, TLR4 and adaptor proteins expression in AT was determined by immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: Obese and overweight individuals showed significantly increased expression of TLR2, TLR4 and MyD88 in both PBMCs and AT as compared with lean individuals (P < 0.05). Interestingly, we found a remarkably higher expression of TLRs in obese and overweight individuals with type 2 diabetes (P < 0.05). Increased expression of TLR2, TLR4, MyD88 and IRAK1 correlated with body mass index (BMI) (TLR2: r = 0.91; TLR4: r = 0.88, P <0.0001; MyD88: r = 0.95, P < 0.0001; IRAK1 r = 0.78, P < 0.002). TLRs' expression was also correlated with fasting blood glucose (FBG) (TLR2: r = 0.61, P < 0.002; TLR4: r = 0.52, P < 0.01) and glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) ( TLR2: r = 0.44, P <0.03; TLR4: r = 0.48, P < 0.03). Transcript levels of IL-6 and TNF-α were highly elevated in obese subjects compared to lean subjects. There was a strong association of TLRs' expression in PBMCs with TNF-α (TLR2: r = 0.92; TLR4: r = 0.92; P < 0.0001) and IL-6 (TLR2: r = 0.91, P < 0.0001; TLR4: r = 0.81; P < 0.001). Similarly adaptor proteins were significantly correlated with TNF-α (MyD88: r = 0.9, P < 0.0001; IRAK1: r = 0.86; P < 0.0002) and IL-6 (MyD88: r = 0.91, P < 0.0001; IRAK1: 0.77; P < 0.002).CONCLUSIONS: TLRs and adapter proteins were overexpressed in PBMCs from obese subjects, which correlated with increased expression of TNF-α and IL-6. This association may explain a potential pathophysiological link between obesity and inflammation leading to insulin resistance.
Author information:(1)Laboratory of Host Defense, WPI Immunology Frontier Research Center (IFReC), Osaka University Department of Host Defense, Research Institute for Microbial Diseases. sakira@biken.osaka-u.ac.jp
The interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK) family comprises critical signaling mediators of the TLR/IL-1R signaling pathways. IRAKs are Ser/Thr kinases. There are 4 members in the vertebrate genome (IRAK1, IRAK2, IRAKM, and IRAK4) and an IRAK homolog, Pelle, in insects. IRAK family members are highly conserved in vertebrates, but the evolutionary relationship between IRAKs in vertebrates and insects is not clear. To investigate the evolutionary history and functional divergence of IRAK members, we performed extensive bioinformatics analysis. The phylogenetic relationship between IRAK sequences suggests that gene duplication events occurred in the evolutionary lineage, leading to early vertebrates. A comparative phylogenetic analysis with insect homologs of IRAKs suggests that the Tube protein is a homolog of IRAK4, unlike the anticipated protein, Pelle. Furthermore, the analysis supports that an IRAK4-like kinase is an ancestral protein in the metazoan lineage of the IRAK family. Through functional analysis, several potentially diverged sites were identified in the common death domain and kinase domain. These sites have been constrained during evolution by strong purifying selection, suggesting their functional importance within IRAKs. In summary, our study highlighted the molecular evolution of the IRAK family, predicted the amino acids that contributed to functional divergence, and identified structural variations among the IRAK paralogs that may provide a starting point for further experimental investigations.
Tunneled central venous catheters (TCVCs) are used for dialysis access in 82% of new hemodialysis patients and are rapidly colonized with Gram-positive organism (e.g. Staphylococcus aureus) biofilm, a source of recurrent infections and chronic inflammation. Lipoteichoic acid (LTA), a cell wall ribitol polymer from Gram-positive organisms, mediates inflammation through the Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). The effect of LTA on lung endothelial permeability is not known. We tested the hypothesis that LTA from Staphylococcus aureus induces alterations in the permeability of pulmonary microvessel endothelial monolayers (PMEM) that result from activation of TLR2 and are mediated by reactive oxygen/nitrogen species (RONS). The permeability of PMEM was assessed by the clearance rate of Evans blue-labeled albumin, the activation of the TLR2 pathway was assessed by Western blot, and the generation of RONS was measured by the fluorescence of oxidized dihydroethidium and a dichlorofluorescein derivative. Treatment with LTA or the TLR2 agonist Pam((3))CSK((4)) induced significant increases in albumin permeability, IκBα phosphorylation, IRAK1 degradation, RONS generation, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activation (as measured by the p-eNOS(ser1177):p-eNOS(thr495) ratio). The effects on permeability and RONS were effectively prevented by co-administration of the superoxide scavenger Tiron, the peroxynitrite scavenger Urate, or the eNOS inhibitor L-NAME and these effects as well as eNOS activation were reduced or prevented by pretreatment with an IRAK1/4 inhibitor. The results indicate that the activation of TLR2 and the generation of ROS/RNS mediates LTA-induced barrier dysfunction in PMEM.
INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNAs that play crucial roles in regulating normal and pathologic functions. Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is one of the key regulators of pulpal pathogenesis. This study investigated how LPS regulates microRNA expression and affects the phenotype of human dental pulp cells (DPCs).METHODS: Primary DPCs were established and immortalized to achieve immortalized DPCs (I-DPCs). DPCs and I-DPCs were treated with LPS and examined to identify changes in microRNA expression, cell proliferation, and cell migration. Quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was used to detect changes in gene expression. Exogenous miR-146a expression was performed transfection with pre-mir-146a mimic. Knockdown of interleukin receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) expression was performed by small interference oligonucleotide transfection. Western blot analysis was used to detect changes in the expression of the IRAK1 and TRAF6 proteins.RESULTS: The differentiation of DPCs was induced by osteogenic medium. I-DPCs had a higher level of human telomerase reverse transcriptase gene than the parental DPCs. Up-regulation of miR-146a expression and an increase in migration was induced by LPS treatment of DPCs and I-DPCs. Exogenous miR-146a expression increased the migration of DPCs and I-DPCs and down-regulated the expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6. Knockdown of IRAK1 and/or TRAF6 increased the migration of DPCs.CONCLUSIONS: The results suggested that LPS is able to increase the migration of DPCs by modulating the miR-146a-TRAF6/IRAK1 regulatory cascade.
Intestinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury causes inflammation and tissue damage and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Uncontrolled activation of the innate immune system through toll-like receptors (Tlr) plays a key role in I/R-mediated tissue damage but the underlying mechanisms have not been fully resolved. Here, we identify post-transcriptional upregulation of the essential Tlr signalling molecule interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase (Irak) 1 as the causative mechanism for post-ischemic immune hyper-responsiveness of intestinal epithelial cells. Increased Irak1 protein levels enhanced epithelial ligand responsiveness, chemokine secretion, apoptosis and mucosal barrier disruption in an experimental intestinal I/R model using wild-type, Irak1(-/-) and Tlr4(-/-) mice and ischemic human intestinal tissue. Irak1 accumulation under hypoxic conditions was associated with reduced K48 ubiquitination and enhanced Senp1-mediated deSUMOylation of Irak1. Importantly, administration of microRNA (miR)-146a or induction of miR-146a by the phytochemical diindolylmethane controlled Irak1 upregulation and prevented immune hyper-responsiveness in mouse and human tissue. These findings indicate that Irak1 accumulation triggers I/R-induced epithelial immune hyper-responsiveness and suggest that the induction of miR-146a offers a promising strategy to prevent I/R tissue injury.
OBJECTIVE: Atherosclerosis is characterized as a chronic inflammatory condition that involves cholesterol deposition in arteries. Together with scavenger receptor B1 (SR-B1), the ATP-binding cassette transporters ABCA1 and ABCG1 are the major components of macrophage cholesterol efflux. Recent studies have shown that low-grade inflammation plays a distinct regulatory role in the expression of SR-B1 and ABCA1/ABCG1. However, the mechanisms linking low-grade inflammation and cholesterol accumulation are poorly understood.METHODS AND RESULTS: Using primary bone-marrow-derived macrophages, we demonstrate that subclinical low-dose lipopolysaccharide potently reduces the expression of SR-B1 and ABCA1/ABCG1, as well as cholesterol efflux from macrophages through interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 and Toll-interacting-protein. Low-dose lipopolysaccharide downregulates the nuclear levels of retinoic acid receptor-α, leading to their reduced binding to the promoters of SR-B1 and ABCA1/ABCG1. We observe that glycogen synthase kinase 3β activation by low-dose lipopolysaccharide through interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 and Toll-interacting-protein is responsible for reduced levels of retinoic acid receptor-α, and reduced expression of SR-B1 and ABCA1/ABCG1. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase M, however, counteracts the function of interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 1.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our data reveal a novel intracellular network regulated by low-dose endotoxemia that disrupts cholesterol efflux from macrophages and leads to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.
The stem bark of Kalopanax pictus Nakai (KP, family Araliaceae), of which main constituent is kalopanaxsaponin B, has been used for inflammation in Chinese traditional medicine. We isolated kalopanaxsaponin B from KP and investigated its anti-inflammatory effect in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages and on LPS-stimulated systemic inflammation in male ICR mice. Kalopanaxsaponin B inhibited the expression of TNF-α, IL-1β, iNOS and COX-2 in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Kalopanaxsaponin B also inhibited the activation of IRAK1, IKK-β, NF-κB and MAP kinases (ERK, JNK, p-38). Treatment with LPS in the presence of kalopanaxsaponin B inhibited LPS-induced IRAK1 degradation and phosphorylation. Kalopanaxsaponin B inhibited IRAK1 kinase binding activity. However, kalopanaxsaponin B did not inhibit the NF-κB activation in active IKK-β-transfected macrophages. Kalopanaxsaponin B did not inhibit the binding of LPS on toll-like receptor-4 of the macrophages. Kalopanaxsaponin B inhibited LPS-induced systemic inflammation in mice. Based on these findings, kalopanaxsaponin B ameliorates LPS-induced systemic inflammation by inhibiting IRAK1 kinase.
RATIONALE: A prothrombotic state and increased platelet reactivity are common in pathophysiological conditions associated with oxidative stress and infections. Such conditions are associated with an appearance of altered-self ligands in circulation that can be recognized by Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Platelets express a number of TLRs, including TLR9; however, the role of TLR in platelet function and thrombosis is poorly understood.OBJECTIVE: To investigate the biological activities of carboxy(alkylpyrrole) protein adducts, an altered-self ligand generated in oxidative stress, on platelet function and thrombosis.METHODS AND RESULTS: In this study we show that carboxy(alkylpyrrole) protein adducts represent novel unconventional ligands for TLR9. Furthermore, using human and murine platelets, we demonstrate that carboxy(alkylpyrrole) protein adducts promote platelet activation, granule secretion, and aggregation in vitro and thrombosis in vivo via the TLR9/MyD88 pathway. Platelet activation by TLR9 ligands induces IRAK1 and AKT phosphorylation, and it is Src kinase-dependent. Physiological platelet agonists act synergistically with TLR9 ligands by inducing TLR9 expression on the platelet surface.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that platelet TLR9 is a functional platelet receptor that links oxidative stress, innate immunity, and thrombosis.
Induction of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor gene p16(INK4a) into the synovial tissues suppresses rheumatoid arthritis in animal models. In vitro studies have shown that the cell-cycle inhibitor p16(INK4a) also exerts anti-inflammatory effects on rheumatoid synovial fibroblasts (RSF) in CDK activity-dependent and -independent manners. The present study was conducted to discern how p16(INK4a) modulates macrophages, which are the major source of inflammatory cytokines in inflamed synovial tissues. We found that p16(INK4a) suppresses LPS-induced production of IL-6 but not of TNF-α from macrophages. This inhibition did not depend on CDK4/6 activity and was not observed in RSF. p16(INK4a) gene transfer accelerated LPS-triggered IL-1R-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) degradation in macrophages but not in RSF. The degradation inhibited the AP-1 pathway without affecting the NF-κB pathway. Treatment with a proteosome inhibitor prevented the acceleration of IRAK1 degradation and downregulation of the AP-1 pathway. THP-1 macrophages with forced IRAK1 expression were resistant to the p16(INK4a)-induced IL-6 suppression. Senescent macrophages with physiological expression of p16(INK4a) upregulated IL-6 production when p16(INK4a) was targeted by specific small interfering RNA. These findings indicate that p16(INK4a) promotes ubiquitin-dependent IRAK1 degradation, impairs AP-1 activation, and suppresses IL-6 production. Thus, p16(INK4a) senescence gene upregulation inhibits inflammatory cytokine production in macrophages in a different way than in RSF.
Bacterial infections following rhinovirus (RV), a common cold virus, are well documented, but pathogenic mechanisms are poorly understood. We developed animal and cell culture models to examine the effects of RV on subsequent infection with non-typeable Hemophilus influenzae (NTHi). We focused on NTHI-induced neutrophil chemoattractants expression that is essential for bacterial clearance. Mice infected with RV1B were superinfected with NTHi and lung bacterial density, chemokines and neutrophil counts determined. Human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B) or mouse alveolar macrophages (MH-S) were infected with RV and challenged with NHTi, TLR2 or TLR5 agonists. Chemokine levels were measured by ELISA and expression of IRAK-1, a component of MyD88-dependent TLR signaling, assessed by immunoblotting. While sham-infected mice cleared all NTHi from the lungs, RV-infected mice showed bacteria up to 72 h post-infection. However, animals in RV/NTHi cleared bacteria by day 7. Delayed bacterial clearance in RV/NTHi animals was associated with suppressed chemokine levels and neutrophil recruitment. RV-infected BEAS-2B and MH-S cells showed attenuated chemokine production after challenge with either NTHi or TLR agonists. Attenuated chemokine responses were associated with IRAK-1 protein degradation. Inhibition of RV-induced IRAK-1 degradation restored NTHi-stimulated IL-8 expression. Knockdown of TLR2, but not other MyD88-dependent TLRs, also restored IRAK-1, suggesting that TLR2 is required for RV-induced IRAK-1 degradation.In conclusion, we demonstrate for the first time that RV infection delays bacterial clearance in vivo and suppresses NTHi-stimulated chemokine responses via degradation of IRAK-1. Based on these observations, we speculate that modulation of TLR-dependent innate immune responses by RV may predispose the host to secondary bacterial infection, particularly in patients with underlying chronic respiratory disorders.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes encoding the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway modulate susceptibility to preterm birth (PTB).STUDY DESIGN: Prospective case-control study examining the contribution of nine TLR SNPs to PTB (<37 weeks) and PTB <32 weeks. Genotyping was done on neonatal blood using a multiplexed single-base extension assay. Chi-square test, Fischer's exact test and classification trees were used for data analysis.RESULT: Preterm infants (n=177) were more likely to be African American (P=0.02), and were more likely to be born to mothers who smoked (P=0.007), had pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH; P=0.002) and placental abruption (P=0.0004) when compared with term infants (n=146). The TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, TLR9, nuclear factor-kappa B1 (NFκB1), NFκBIA and IRAK1 variants were not associated with PTB whereas the TIR domain receptor-associated protein (TIRAP) variant was more prevalent in term infants when compared with preterm infants born <32 weeks (P=0.004). PTB <32 weeks was more prevalent in infants without the TIRAP variant whose mothers had PIH and did not smoke (P=0.001). Presence of the TIRAP variant protected against PTB <32 weeks (P=0.015) in Caucasian infants.CONCLUSION: In our study, a TLR pathway adapter variant (TIRAP (rs8177374)) protected against PTB<32 weeks, supporting our hypothesis that genetic variation in the innate immune signaling pathway contributes to altered risk of PTB.
Prior studies showed that Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway genes were upregulated in the liver of rats fed ethanol, but not in rats fed ethanol plus S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe). These results were obtained using a PCR microplate array analysis for TLRs and associated proteins such as proinflammatory cytokines and chemokine mRNA levels. A large number of genes were upregulated by the ethanol diet, but not the ethanol plus SAMe diet. In the present study, using the same experimental rat livers, DNA methylation analysis was done by using an Epitect Methyl DNA Restriction Kit (Qiagen, 335451) (24 genes). The results of all the genes combined show a highly significant increase in methylation in the ethanol-fed group of rats, but not in the dextrose-fed, SAMe-fed or ethanol plus SAMe-fed groups of rats. There was also an increase in DNA methylation in rats with high blood alcohol levels compared to a rat with a low blood alcohol level. The individual genes that were upregulated as indicated by the increased mRNA measured by qPCR correlated positively with the increased methylation of the DNA of the corresponding genes as follows: Cd14, Hspa1a, Irf1, Irak1, Irak2, Map3k7, Myd88, Pparα, Ripk2, Tollip and Traf6.
Toll-like receptors (TLR) are expressed by a variety of cancers, including melanoma, but their functional contributions in cancer cells are uncertain. To approach this question, we evaluated the effects of stimulating or inhibiting the TLR/IL-1 receptor-associated kinases IRAK-1 and IRAK-4 in melanoma cells where their functions are largely unexplored. TLRs and TLR-related proteins were variably expressed in melanoma cell lines, with 42% expressing activated phospho-IRAK-1 constitutively and 85% expressing high levels of phospho-IRAK-4 in the absence of TLR stimulation. Immunohistochemical evaluation of melanoma tumor biopsies (n = 242) revealed two distinct patient populations, one that expressed p-IRAK-4 levels similar to normal skin (55%) and one with significantly higher levels than normal skin (45%). Levels of p-IRAK-4 levels did not correlate with clinical stage, gender, or age, but attenuated IRAK-1,-4 signaling with pharmacologic inhibitors or siRNA-enhanced cell death in vitro in combination with vinblastine. Moreover, in a xenograft mouse model of melanoma, the combined pharmacologic treatment delayed tumor growth and prolonged survival compared with subjects receiving single agent therapy. We propose p-IRAK-4 as a novel inflammation and prosurvival marker in melanoma with the potential to serve as a therapeutic target to enhance chemotherapeutic responses.
Increasing evidence supports the involvement of microRNAs (miRNA) in the regulation of inflammation in human neurological disorders. In the present study we investigated the role of miR-146a, a key regulator of the innate immune response, in the modulation of astrocyte-mediated inflammation. Using Taqman PCR and in situ hybridization, we studied the expression of miR-146a in epilepsy-associated glioneuronal lesions which are characterized by prominent activation of the innate immune response. In addition, cultured human astrocytes were used to study the regulation of miR-146a expression in response to proinflammatory cytokines. qPCR and western blot were used to evaluate the effects of overexpression or knockdown of miR-146a on IL-1β signaling. Downstream signaling in the IL-1β pathway, as well as the expression of IL-6 and COX-2 were evaluated by western blot and ELISA. Release several cytokines was evaluated using a human magnetic multiplex cytokine assay on a Luminex® 100™/200™ platform. Increased expression of miR-146a was observed in glioneuronal lesions by Taqman PCR. MiR-146a expression in human glial cell cultures was strongly induced by IL-1β and blocked by IL-1β receptor antagonist. Modulation of miR-146a expression by transfection of astrocytes with anti-miR146a or mimic, regulated the mRNA expression levels of downstream targets of miR-146a (IRAK-1, IRAK-2 and TRAF-6) and the expression of IRAK-1 protein. In addition, the expression of IL-6 and COX-2 upon IL-1β stimulation was suppressed by increased levels of miR-146a and increased by the reduction of miR-146a. Modulation of miR-146a expression affected also the release of several cytokines such as IL-6 and TNF-α. Our observations indicate that in response to inflammatory cues, miR-146a was induced as a negative-feedback regulator of the astrocyte-mediated inflammatory response. This supports an important role of miR-146a in human neurological disorders associated with chronic inflammation and suggests that this miR may represent a novel target for therapeutic strategies.
Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory skin disorder with dysregulation of miRNAs. The expression pattern of miR-146a and target gene IRAK1 in lesions and PBMCs of plaque psoriasis remains unclear. In our study, we found the expression of miR-146a was up-regulated both in lesions and PBMCs of psoriatic patients, and positively correlated with IL-17 expression, whereas the target gene IRAK1 expression was expressed differentially in lesions and peripheral blood. Inability of miR-146a inhibiting target gene IRAK1 may contribute to the persistent inflammation in lesions of psoriasis.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2012;7(11):doi/10.1371/annotation/9a2fb76a-b2c3-43b4-a0b1-e8ae773378b7.
The anti-inflammatory effects of curcuminoids have been extensively investigated. However, few studies investigate the mechanistic involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in their activity. The objective of this study was to examine the protective effects of standardized curcuminoid extract (SCE) in vascular inflammation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and the potential involvement of miRNA-126 and miRNA-146a. Escherichia coli lipopolysacharides (LPS) were used to induce inflammation. LPS-challenge increased gene-expression of toll-like receptor-4 (TLR-4) and downstream genes IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1) and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF-6) up to 2.58-, 2.39-, and 3.73-fold, respectively, relative to DMSO-treated controls that were not challenged with LPS. LPS up-regulated TLR-4, IRAK-1, and TRAF-6 in SCE pretreated cells (5 mg L(-1)), only up to 0.69-, 1.28-, and 1.15-fold, respectively. miRNA-146a can be up-regulated by transcription nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and acts as a negative feedback loop regulator involving IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 downregulation. In this study, the down-regulation of NF-κB was accompanied by reduced miRNA-146a expression. LPS-challenge induced mRNA levels of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and intracellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) up to 5.65- and 10.65-fold, respectively. SCE prevented this effect and increases of up to only 2.92- and 5.26-fold of DMSO-treated controls not challenged with LPS were observed. miRNA-126 regulates endothelial expression of VCAM-1, but was not inversely correlated to the expression of its target gene VCAM-1 upon SCE treatment; therefore, miRNA-126 does not appear to be involved in the down-regulation of VCAM-1. Overall, curcuminoids are confirmed to have anti-inflammatory properties in HUVEC; however, neither miRNA-146a nor miRNA-126 seem to be involved in the SCE-induced down-regulation of the NF-κB-target genes IRAK-1, TRAF-6, and VCAM-1.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Osbeckia stellata Buch.-Ham. ex D.Don is traditionally prescribed to treat various inflammatory diseases. However, how this plant is able to modulate inflammatory responses is unknown. This study explored the anti-inflammatory effects of 99% methanol extracts of O. stellata (Os-ME).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The anti-inflammatory effect of Os-ME was evaluated by measuring the levels of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated RAW264.7 macrophage cells and by determining gastric inflammatory lesions in mice induced by HCl/ethanol (EtOH). The molecular mechanisms of the inhibitions were elucidated by analyzing the activation of transcription factors, upstream signaling cascade, and the kinase activities of target enzymes.RESULTS: Os-ME dose-dependently diminished the release of NO and PGE(2), and suppressed the expression of inducible NO synthase and cyclooxygenase-2 in LPS-treated RAW264.7 cells. Os-ME clearly inhibited the translocation of c-Rel, a subunit of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB), and c-Fos, a subunit of activator protein-1 (AP-1), and their regulatory upstream enzymes including Src, Syk, and IRAK1. Interestingly, orally administered Os-ME ameliorated acute inflammatory symptoms and suppressed the activation of Src, Syk, and IRAK1 induced by HCl/EtOH treatment in mouse stomach.CONCLUSION: Os-ME can be considered as an orally available anti-inflammatory herbal remedy with Src/Syk/NF-κB and IRAK1/AP-1 inhibitory properties.
As a part of the negative feedback mechanism, CpG DNA induces IRAK-M expression in monocytic cells. In the present study we investigated a biochemical signaling pathway and the transcription factors responsible for CpG DNA-mediated Irak-m gene expression. CpG DNA-induced Irak-m expression did not require new protein synthesis and was regulated at the transcriptional level through an endosomal pH-sensitive TLR9/MyD88 signaling pathway. Over-expression of the dominant negative (DN) form of or gene-specific knockdown of signaling modulators in the TLR9 pathway demonstrated that IRAK4, IRAK1, IRAK2, and PKD1 are required for Irak-m transcription induced by CpG DNA. Over-expression of DN-IRAK1 only partially, but significantly, inhibited CpG DNA-induced Irak-m promoter activity. While IRAK1 was critical for the initial phase, IRAK2 was required for the late phase of TLR9 signaling by sustaining activation of PKD1 that leads to activation of NF-κB and MAPKs. Irak-m promoter-luciferase reporters with alterations in the predicted cis-acting transcriptional regulatory elements revealed that the NF-κB consensus site in the Irak-m promoter region is absolutely required for Irak-m gene expression. AP-1 and CREB binding sites also contributed to the optimal Irak-m expression by CpG DNA. Collectively, our results demonstrate that IRAK2 plays a key role in the TLR9-mediated transcriptional regulation of Irak-m expression by sustaining activation of PKD1 and NF-κB.
OBJECTIVES: The Xq28 region containing IRAK1 and MECP2 has been identified as a risk locus for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in previous genetic association studies. However, due to the strong linkage disequilibrium between IRAK1 and MECP2, it remains unclear which gene is affected by the underlying causal variant(s) conferring risk of SLE.METHODS: We fine-mapped ≥136 SNPs in a ∼227 kb region on Xq28, containing IRAK1, MECP2 and seven adjacent genes (L1CAM, AVPR2, ARHGAP4, NAA10, RENBP, HCFC1 and TMEM187), for association with SLE in 15 783 case-control subjects derived from four different ancestral groups.RESULTS: Multiple SNPs showed strong association with SLE in European Americans, Asians and Hispanics at p<5×10(-8) with consistent association in subjects with African ancestry. Of these, six SNPs located in the TMEM187-IRAK1-MECP2 region captured the underlying causal variant(s) residing in a common risk haplotype shared by all four ancestral groups. Among them, rs1059702 best explained the Xq28 association signals in conditional testings and exhibited the strongest p value in transancestral meta-analysis (p(meta )= 1.3×10(-27), OR=1.43), and thus was considered to be the most likely causal variant. The risk allele of rs1059702 results in the amino acid substitution S196F in IRAK1 and had previously been shown to increase NF-κB activity in vitro. We also found that the homozygous risk genotype of rs1059702 was associated with lower mRNA levels of MECP2, but not IRAK1, in SLE patients (p=0.0012) and healthy controls (p=0.0064).CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest contributions of both IRAK1 and MECP2 to SLE susceptibility.
BACKGROUND: Recent studies showed that overwhelming inflammatory response mediated by the toll-like receptor (TLR)-related pathway was important in the development of acute lung injury (ALI). The aim of this study was to determine whether common genetic variation in four genes of the TLR signaling pathway were associated with sepsis-induced ALI susceptibility and risk of death in Chinese Han population.METHODS: Fourteen tag single nucleotide polymorphisms (tagSNPs) in MyD88, IRAK1, IRAK4 and TRAF6 were genotyped in samples of sepsis-induced ALI (n = 272) and sepsis alone patients (n = 276), and tested for association in this case-control collection. Then, we investigated correlation between the associated SNP and the mRNA expression level of the corresponding gene. And we also investigated correlation between the associated SNP and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) as well as interleukin-6 (IL-6) concentrations in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) exposed to lipopolysaccharides (LPS) ex vivo. The mRNA expression level was determined using real-time quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) assays, and concentrations of TNF-α and IL-6 were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).RESULTS: The association analysis revealed that rs4755453, an intronic SNP of TRAF6, was significantly associated with susceptibility to sepsis-induced ALI. The C allele frequency of rs4755453 in the sepsis alone group was significantly higher than that in the sepsis-induced ALI group (P = 0.00026, odds ratio (OR) = 0.52, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.37-0.74). These associations remained significant after adjustment for covariates in multiple logistic regression analysis and for multiple comparisons. TRAF6 mRNA expression levels in PBMCs from homozygotes of the rs4755453G allele were significantly higher than that in heterozygotes and homozygotes of the rs4755453C allele at baseline (P = 0.012 and P = 0.003, respectively) as well as after LPS stimulation (P = 0.009 and P = 0.005). Moreover, the concentrations of TNF-α and IL-6 in cell culture supernatants were also significantly higher in the subjects with rs4755453GG genotype than in subjects with CG and CC genotype. None of the 14 tagSNPs showed associations with risk of death and severity among ALI cases.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicated that common genetic variants in TRAF6 were significantly associated with susceptibility to sepsis-induced ALI in Chinese Han population. This was the first genetic evidence supporting a role for TRAF6 in ALI.
Kaposi's sarcoma (KS)-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is the causative agent of KS, an important AIDS-associated malignancy. KSHV expresses at least 18 different mature microRNAs (miRNAs). We identified interleukin-1 receptor (IL-1R)-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) as a potential target of miR-K12-9 (miR-K9) in an array data set examining changes in cellular gene expression levels in the presence of KSHV miRNAs. Using 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR) luciferase reporter assays, we confirmed that miR-K9 and other miRNAs inhibit IRAK1 expression. In addition, IRAK1 expression is downregulated in cells transfected with miR-K9 and during de novo KSHV infection. IRAK1 is an important component of the Toll-like receptor (TLR)/IL-1R signaling cascade. The downregulation of IRAK1 by miR-K9 resulted in the decreased stimulation of NF-κB activity in endothelial cells treated with IL-1α and in B cells treated with a TLR7/8 agonist. Interestingly, miR-K9 had a greater effect on NF-κB activity than did a small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting IRAK1 despite the more efficient downregulation of IRAK1 expression with the siRNA. We hypothesized that KSHV miRNAs may also be regulating a second component of the TLR/IL-1R signaling cascade, resulting in a stronger phenotype. Reanalysis of the array data set identified myeloid differentiation primary response protein 88 (MYD88) as an additional potential target. 3'UTR luciferase reporter assays and Western blot analysis confirmed the targeting of MYD88 by miR-K5. The presence of miR-K9 and miR-K5 inhibited the production of IL-6 and IL-8 upon the IL-1α stimulation of endothelial cells. These results demonstrate KSHV-encoded miRNAs regulating the TLR/IL-1R signaling cascade at two distinct points and suggest the importance of these pathways during viral infection.
T cell responses in mammals must be tightly regulated to both provide effective immune protection and avoid inflammation-induced pathology. NF-κB activation is a key signaling event induced by T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation. Dysregulation of NF-κB is associated with T cell-mediated inflammatory diseases and malignancies, highlighting the importance of negative feedback control of TCR-induced NF-κB activity. In this study we show that in mice, T cells lacking miR-146a are hyperactive in both acute antigenic responses and chronic inflammatory autoimmune responses. TCR-driven NF-κB activation up-regulates the expression of miR-146a, which in turn down-regulates NF-κB activity, at least partly through repressing the NF-κB signaling transducers TRAF6 and IRAK1. Thus, our results identify miR-146a as an important new member of the negative feedback loop that controls TCR signaling to NF-κB. Our findings also add microRNA to the list of regulators that control the resolution of T cell responses.
Erratum in    Ann Rheum Dis. 2015 May;74(5):920.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) is phosphorylated, ubiquitinated, and degraded upon IL-1 stimulation. IRAK1 can be ubiquitinated through both K48- and K63-linked polyubiquitin chains upon IL-1 stimulation. While the Pellino proteins have been shown to meditate K63-linked polyubiquitination on IRAK1, the E3 ligase for K48-linked ubiquitination of IRAK1 has not been identified. In this study, we report that the SCF (Skp1-Cullin1-F-box)-β-TrCP complex functions as the K48-linked ubiquitination E3 ligase for IRAK1. IL-1 stimulation induced the interaction of IRAK1 with Cullin1 and β-TrCP. Knockdown of β-TrCP1 and β-TrCP2 attenuated the K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation of IRAK1. Importantly, β-TrCP deficiency abolished the translocation TAK1-TRAF6 complex from the membrane to the cytosol, resulting in a diminishment of the IL-1-induced TAK1-dependent pathway. Taken together, these results implicate a positive role of β-TrCP-mediated IRAK1 degradation in IL-1-induced TAK1 activation.
The impairment in diabetic wound healing represents a significant clinical problem. Chronic inflammation is thought to play a central role in the pathogenesis of this impairment. We have previously shown that treatment of diabetic murine wounds with mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) can improve healing, but the mechanisms are not completely defined. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) has been implicated in regulation of the immune and inflammatory responses. We hypothesized that abnormal miRNA-146a expression may contribute to the chronic inflammation. To test this hypothesis, we examined the expression of miRNA-146a and its target genes in diabetic and nondiabetic mice at baseline and after injury. MiR-146a expression was significantly downregulated in diabetic mouse wounds. Decreased miR-146a levels also closely correlated with increased gene expression of its proinflammatory target genes. Furthermore, the correction of the diabetic wound-healing impairment with MSC treatment was associated with a significant increase in the miR-146a expression level and decreased gene expression of its proinflammatory target genes. These results provide the first evidence that decreased expression of miR-146a in diabetic wounds in response to injury may, in part, be responsible for the abnormal inflammatory response seen in diabetic wounds and may contribute to wound-healing impairment.
Ginseng (the root of Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer, family Araliaceae), which contains protopanaxadiol ginsenoside Rb1 and protopanaxatriol ginsenoside Re as main constituents, is frequently used to treat cancer, inflammation, and stress. In the preliminary study, protopanaxatriol ginsenoside Re inhibited NF-κB activation in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated murine peritoneal macrophages. Therefore, we investigated its anti-inflammatory effect in peptidoglycan (PGN)-, LPS-, or tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages and, in addition, in LPS-induced systemic inflammation and 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in mice. Ginsenoside Re inhibited IKK-β phosphorylation and NF-κB activation, as well as the expression of proinflammatory cytokines, TNF-α and IL-1β, in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages, but it did not inhibit them in TNF-α- or PG-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Ginsenoside Re also inhibited IRAK-1 phosphorylation induced by LPS, as well as IRAK-1 and IRAK-4 degradations in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Ginsenoside Re inhibited the binding of Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated LPS to TLR4 on peritoneal macrophages. Furthermore, ginsenoside Re inhibited the binding of LPS to TLR4 on peritoneal macrophages transiently transfected with MyD88 siRNAs. Orally administered ginsenoside Re significantly inhibited the expression of IL-1β and TNF-α on LPS-induced systemic inflammation and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Ginsenoside Re inhibited colon shortening and myeloperoxidase activity in TNBS-treated mice. Ginsenoside Re reversed the reduced expression of tight-junction-associated proteins ZO-1, claudin-1, and occludin. Ginsenoside Re (20 mg/kg) inhibited the activation of NF-κB in TNBS-treated mice. On the basis of these findings, ginsenoside Re may ameliorate inflammation by inhibiting the binding of LPS to TLR4 on macrophages.
PURPOSE: The isoprenoid geranylgeraniol (GGOH) inhibits nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) activation in the liver, yet the mechanism remains unclear. We investigated the modulation and inhibition of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced NF-κB signaling in the liver of rats fed a GGOH-supplemented diet.METHODS: Rats were fed a diet supplemented with or without GGOH for 10 days. Rats were then intraperitoneally injected with 0.5 mg/kg LPS or vehicle (sterilized saline) and fasted for 18 h. Plasma levels of the inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6, and the liver damage indicators alanine and aspartate aminotransferases (ALT and AST) were assessed. Liver mRNA and proteins were assayed for changes in NF-κB target genes and signal transduction genes.RESULTS: Rats fed a high-dose, GGOH-supplemented diet showed significantly lower levels of plasma inflammatory cytokines and ALT and AST activities. In the liver, GGOH significantly suppressed NF-κB activation and mRNA expression of its pro-inflammatory target genes. Furthermore, GGOH supplementation substantially suppressed mRNA expression of signal transducer genes upstream of the IκB kinase complex. Western blotting of liver extracts further demonstrated the substantial decrease in total IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), leading to lower signal transduction and inhibition of NF-κB after LPS.CONCLUSION: A 10-day, high-dose, GGOH-supplemented diet was sufficient to inhibit LPS-induced inflammation and activation of NF-κB in rat livers. GGOH significantly modulated NF-κB signaling molecules, inhibiting its signal transduction and activation in the liver, thus protecting against liver damage.
miRNAs play important roles in numerous cellular processes, including development, proliferation, apoptosis, and carcinogenesis. Because altered expression and function of miRNAs has been observed in bladder cancer, we investigated whether genetic variations in miRNAs are associated with bladder cancer risk and prognosis. Using bioinformatics tools, we selected five single-nucleotide polymorphisms located in miRNAs and used these to evaluate miRNA-disease associations in a two-stage model, consisting of 1,019 bladder cancer cases and 1,182 controls (683 cases and 728 controls in the training set and 336 cases and 454 controls in the test set). We found that miR-146a rs2910164 C allele was associated with significantly decreased risk of bladder cancer in both the training and test sets, as well as the combined set [OR = 0.80, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.71-0.90, P = 2.92 × 10(-4)]. Furthermore, the rs2910164 GC/CC genotypes conferred a significantly reduced risk of recurrence, compared with the GG genotype (P = 0.016). Functional analysis revealed that miR-146a rs2910164 C allele inhibited cell proliferation and significantly downregulated expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6 in bladder cancer cells. Additional examination of 64 bladder cancer tissues showed that individuals carrying the C allele had increased expression levels of miR-146a compared with those carrying the G allele (P = 0.010). Taken together, our findings show that miR-146a rs2910164 plays an important role in the risk and recurrence of bladder cancer, suggesting it may represent a biomarker for risk prevention and therapeutic intervention. Further larger and prospective cohorts are needed to validate our findings.
Pattern-recognition receptors such as Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are essential sensors implicated in the early and efficient innate immune response against pathogens. We have previously demonstrated that leukotriene B(4)(LTB(4)) has the capacity to enhance leukocyte responses to TLR9 ligands and to control viral infection. In this report, we provide evidence that LTB(4) treatment of human neutrophils leads to a potentiation in proinflammatory cytokine secretion induced by various myeloid differentiation factor 88-dependent TLR agonists. LTB(4) failed to enhance TLR mRNA levels as well as expression of TLR2 and TLR4 receptors, suggesting that LTB(4) acts through intracellular mechanism(s) to potentiate neutrophil responses to TLR ligands. We found that while IRAK can be activated by LTB(4), this process is dispensable to LTB(4) to potentiate neutrophil responses to TLR ligands since pretreatment of neutrophils with IRAK1/4 inhibitor did not affect its potentiating effects. However, our data clearly show that LTB(4) treatment of neutrophils led to the phosphorylation of downstream signaling molecules, TAK1 and p38, a process found essential to observe an increased secretion of cytokines by neutrophils activated with TLR ligands. Pretreatment of neutrophils with TAK1 or p38 kinase inhibitors strongly repressed the effect of LTB(4) on cytokine synthesis by neutrophils stimulated with LTA, LPS or CpG. The same pattern was observed in agonist-treated human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with TAK1-targeting siRNA where secretion of IL-8 was significantly reduced to basal levels. These results indicate that TAK1 and p38 kinases appear to be central in the 'priming effect' of LTB(4) on neutrophils to enhance response to TLR ligands.
The cellular response to virus infection is initiated by recognition of the invading pathogen and subsequent changes in gene expression mediated by both transcriptional and translational mechanisms. In addition to well established means of regulating antiviral gene expression, it has been demonstrated that RNA interference (RNAi) can play an important role in antiviral responses. Virus-derived small interfering RNA (siRNA) is a primary antiviral response exploited by plants and invertebrate animals, and host-encoded microRNA (miRNA) species have been clearly implicated in the regulation of innate and adaptive immune responses in mammals and other vertebrates. Examination of miRNA abundance in human lung cell lines revealed endogenous miRNAs, including miR-7, miR-132, miR-146a, miR-187, miR-200c, and miR-1275, to specifically accumulate in response to infection with two influenza A virus strains, A/Udorn/72 and A/WSN/33. Known antiviral response pathways, including Toll-like receptor, RIG-I-like receptor, and direct interferon or cytokine stimulation did not alter the abundance of the tested miRNAs to the extent of influenza A virus infection, which initiates primary miRNA transcription via a secondary response pathway. Gene expression profiling identified 26 cellular mRNAs targeted by these miRNAs, including IRAK1, MAPK3, and other components of innate immune signaling systems.
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener's ) is a rare autoimmune disease associated with the presence of antibodies directed against neutrophil antigen, proteinase-3 (PR3). The mechanisms by which anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) may activate neutrophils are still not well understood. In the present study we analyzed neutrophil gene expression profile after anti-PR3 antibodies stimulation. Briefly neutrophils isolated from 12 healthy volunteers, who tested negative for anti-PR3 autoantibodies, were stimulated with anti-PR3 IgG and activation of 147 genes was analyzed with the use of TaqMan low-density arrays. In stimulated neutrophils we observed up-regulation of 13 genes (CCL2, CXCL2, VCAM1, MMP9, PLCB4, PDE4C, PLA2G4C, RAC1, RHOA, IRAK1, CACNA1D, CACNB2, PTGDR), further 11 genes were up-regulated only in some donors (IL13, PF4, IL2RG, ITGB1, CD83, PLA2G7, ALOX12, AXNA1, AXNA5, LTA4H, MCR2) yet two others (HRH3 and PLA2G2D) were up-regulated in a few samples and undetectable in others. The obtained results demonstrate that c-ANCA mediated activation of neutrophils involve several pathways mediated via FcγRs like calcium signaling, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase AKT pathway or MAPK signaling systems, but also inducts others, like G-protein signaling. Neutrophil is a very sensitive cell, responding to many environment changes. As our results showed, some anti-PR3 responses are highly variable across donors. Perhaps, this variablity also contribute to the susceptibility for granulocyte vasculitis and requires future studies.
Interleukin receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 binding protein 1 (IRAK1BP1) is a critical factor in preventing dangerous overproduction of proinflammatory cytokines by the innate immune system and in influencing the specificity of TLR responses. In this study, a first molluscan IRAK1BP1 gene, saIRAK1BP1, was cloned from the small abalone (Haliotis diversicolor). Its full-length cDNA sequence is 1047bp, with a 747bp open reading frame encoding a protein of 249 aa. The molecular mass of the deduced protein is approximately 28.1kDa with an estimated pI of 8.87, and shows highest identity (52%) to acorn worm Saccoglossus kowalevskii. Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that saIRAK1BP1 shares a conserved SIMPL domain. Quantitative real-time PCR was employed to investigate the tissue distribution of saIRAK1BP1 mRNA, and its expression in abalone under bacteria challenge and larvae at different developmental stages. The saIRAK1BP1 mRNA could be detected in all examined tissues, with the highest expression level in hemocytes, and was up-regulated in gills, kidneys and hemocytes after bacteria injection. Additionally, saIRAK1BP1 was constitutively expressed at all examined developmental stages. These results indicate that saIRAK1BP1 play an important role in the adult abalone immune system and might be essential in embryo and larval development in abalone.
In this study, we determined the effect of TNF-α on hBMSCs proliferation as well as the role of IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) on TNF-α signaling. Western blot analysis revealed that TNF-α treatment increased the phosphorylation of IRAK1 in hBMSCs. The downregulation of IRAK1 inhibited TNF-α-induced NF-ĸB activation and COX-2 expression. TNF-α treatment increased hBMSCs proliferation in a dose-dependent manner and increased ERK, JNK, and NF-ĸB activity. U0126, an ERK inhibitor, decreased hBMSCs proliferation and significantly blocked TNF-α -induced hBMSCs proliferation. In cells with IRAK1 or TRADD downregulation, the U0126 treatment inhibited hBMSCs proliferation and significantly suppressed TNF-α-induced hBMSCs proliferation. The downregulation of IRAK1 or TRADD inhibited TNF-α-induced ERK and JNK activation, and hBMSCs proliferation. Inhibition of NF-ĸB by decoy oligonucleotides reduced the TNF-α-induced hBMSCs proliferation. Immunoprecipitation analysis showed that IRAK1 does not physically interact with TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1) even in the presence of TNF-α. Suppression of IRAK1 binding protein (IRAK1BP1) inhibited TNF-α-induced increase of the proliferation and ERK1 phosphorylation of hBMSCs in the presence of TNF-α. Our data indicate that TNF-α modulates hBMSCs proliferation through ERK signaling pathways, and that IRAK1 plays an important role in TNF-α-induced NF-ĸB activation in hBMSCs.
The pathophysiology of IBD is characterized by a complex interaction between genes and the environment. Genetic and environmental differences are attributed to the heterogeneity of the disease pathway and to the epigenetic modifications that lead to altered gene expression in the diseased tissues. The epigenetic machinery consists of short interfering RNA, histone modifications, and DNA methylation. We evaluated the effects of Bifidobacterium breve (DSMZ 20213) and LGG (ATCC 53103), as representatives of commensal probiotics on the expression of IL-17 and IL-23, which play an important role in IBD, and on the epigenetic machinery in a 3D coculture model composed of human intestinal HT-29/B6 or T84 cells and PBMCs. The cells were treated with LPS in the presence or absence of bacteria for 48 h, and the expression of IL-17, IL-23, and CD40 at the mRNA and protein levels was assessed using TaqMan qRT-PCR and ELISA, respectively. Western blotting was used to assess the expression of the MyD88, the degradation of IRAK-1 and IκBα, the expression of the NF-κB p50/p65 subunits, the p-p38 MAPK and p-MEK1, as well as histone modifications. NF-κB activity was assessed by NF-κB-dependent luciferase reporter gene assays. The accumulation of Ac-H4 and DNA methylation was quantitatively assessed using colorimetric assays. B. breve and LGG diminished the LPS-induced expression of IL-17, IL-23, CD40, and histone acetylation, while slightly enhancing DNA methylation. These effects were paralleled by a decrease in the nuclear translocation of NF-κB, as demonstrated by a decrease in the expression of MyD88, degradation of IRAK-1 and IκBα expression of the nuclear NF-κB p50/p65 subunits, p-p38 MAPK and p-MEK1, and NF-κB-dependent luciferase reporter gene activity in LPS-stimulated cells. B. breve and LGG may exert their anti-inflammatory effects in the gut by down-regulating the expression of the IBD-causing factors (IL-23/IL-17/CD40) associated with epigenetic processes involving the inhibition of histone acetylation and the optimal enhancement of DNA methylation, reflected in the limited access of NF-κB to gene promoters and reduced NF-κB-mediated transcriptional activation. We describe a new regulatory mechanism in which commensal probiotics inhibit the NF-κB-mediated transcriptional activation of IBD-causing factors (IL-23/IL-17/CD40), thereby simultaneously reducing histone acetylation and enhancing DNA methylation.
Microglial-mediated neuroinflammation is now considered to be central to the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative processes, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Therefore, rational modulation of microglia function to obtain neuroprotective effects is important for the development of safe and effective anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective agents. Here, we investigated the anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects, and potential molecular mechanism of action of Schisandrin B (Sch B); which is isolated from the Schizandra fruit (Schisandra chinesnesis). Sch B exerted significant neuroprotective effects against microglial-mediated inflammatory injury in microglia-neuron co-cultures. In addition, Sch B significantly downregulated pro-inflammatory cytokines, including nitrite oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-6. Additionally, Sch B inhibited the interaction of Toll-like receptor 4 with the Toll adapter proteins MyD88, IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 resulting in an inhibition of the IKK/nuclear transcription factor (NF)-κB inflammatory signaling pathway. Furthermore, Sch B inhibited the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and NADPH oxidase activity in microglia. In summary, Sch B may exert neuroprotective activity by attenuating the microglial-mediated neuroinflammatory response by inhibiting the TLR4-dependent MyD88/IKK/NF-κB signaling pathway.
In order to identify new markers of vascular cell senescence with potential in vivo implications, primary cultured endothelial cells, including human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs), human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs) and ex vivo circulating angiogenic cells (CACs), were analysed for microRNA (miR) expression. Among the 367 profiled miRs in HUVECs, miR-146a, miR-9, miR-204 and miR-367 showed the highest up-regulation in senescent cells. Their predicted target genes belong to nine common pathways, including Toll-like receptor signalling (TLR) that plays a pivotal role in inflammatory response, a key feature of senescence (inflammaging). MiR-146a was the most up-regulated miR in the validation analysis (>10-fold). Mimic and antagomir transfection confirmed TLR's IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) protein modulation in both young and senescent cells. Significant correlations were observed among miR-146a expression and β-galactosidase expression, telomere length and telomerase activity. MiR-146a hyper-expression was also validated in senescent HAECs (>4-fold) and HCAECs (>30-fold). We recently showed that CACs from patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) presented a distinguishing feature of senescence. Therefore, we also included miR-146a expression determination in CACs from 37 CHF patients and 35 healthy control subjects (CTR) for this study. Interestingly, a 1,000-fold increased expression of miR-146a was observed in CACs of CHF patients compared to CTR, along with decreased expression of IRAK1 protein. Moreover, significant correlations among miR-146a expression, telomere length and telomerase activity were observed. Overall, our findings indicate that miR-146a is a marker of a senescence-associated pro-inflammatory status in vascular remodelling cells.
Interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase 1(IRAK1), a key molecule in TLR/IL-1R-mediated signaling, is phosphorylated, ubiquitinated, and degraded upon ligand stimulation. We and others have recently identified Pellino proteins as novel RING E3 ubiquitin ligases involved in IRAK1 polyubiquitination and degradation. However, it remains unclear how each Pellino member distinctly regulates TLR/IL-1R signaling by modulating IRAK1 ubiquitination. In this study we examined the role of Pellino 2 in IL-1- and LPS-mediated signaling and gene expression by knocking down Pellino 2 in human 293-IL-1R cells and primary bone marrow macrophages. Pellino 2 (but not Pellino 1) knockdown abolished IL-1- and LPS-induced Lys-63-linked IRAK1 ubiquitination with reduced Lys-48-linked IRAK1 ubiquitination. Furthermore, Pellino 2 is required for TAK1-dependent NFκB activation. However, because of the retained TAK1-independent NFκB activation, the levels of IL-1- and LPS-induced NFκB activation were not substantially affected in Pellino 2 knockdown 293-IL-1R cells and primary macrophages, respectively. On the other hand, Pellino 2 knockdown reduced the IL-1- and LPS-induced inflammatory gene expression at late time points, which was accompanied by increased decay rates of the mRNAs of the inflammatory genes. Importantly, IL-1- and LPS-mediated JNK and ERK activation were substantially attenuated in Pellino 2 knock-down cells, implicating MAPK activation in TLR/IL-1R-induced mRNA stabilization. Taken together, this study demonstrated that Pellino 2 plays a critical role for TLR/IL-1R-mediated post-transcriptional control.
TLRs recognize microbial pathogens and trigger an immune response, but their regulation by neuropeptides, such as vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), during Pseudomonas aeruginosa corneal infection remains unexplored. Therefore, C57BL/6 (B6) mice were injected i.p. with VIP, and mRNA, protein, and immunostaining assays were performed. After VIP treatment, PCR array and real-time RT-PCR demonstrated that proinflammatory TLRs (conserved helix-loop-helix ubiquitous kinase, IRAK1, TLR1, TLR4, TLR6, TLR8, TLR9, and TNFR-associated factor 6) were downregulated, whereas anti-inflammatory TLRs (single Ig IL-1-related receptor [SIGIRR] and ST2) were upregulated. ELISA showed that VIP modestly downregulated phosphorylated inhibitor of NF-κB kinase subunit α but upregulated ST2 ~2-fold. SIGIRR was also upregulated, whereas TLR4 immunostaining was reduced in cornea; all confirmed the mRNA data. To determine whether VIP effects were cAMP dependent, mice were injected with small interfering RNA for type 7 adenylate cyclase (AC7), with or without VIP treatment. After silencing AC7, changes in mRNA levels of TLR1, TNFR-associated factor 6, and ST2 were seen and unchanged with addition of VIP, indicating that their regulation was cAMP dependent. In contrast, changes were seen in mRNA levels of conserved helix-loop-helix ubiquitous kinase, IRAK1, 2, TLR4, 9 and SIGIRR following AC7 silencing alone; these were modified by VIP addition, indicating their cAMP independence. In vitro studies assessed the effects of VIP on TLR regulation in macrophages and Langerhans cells. VIP downregulated mRNA expression of proinflammatory TLRs while upregulating anti-inflammatory TLRs in both cell types. Collectively, the data provide evidence that VIP downregulates proinflammatory TLRs and upregulates anti-inflammatory TLRs and that this regulation is both cAMP dependent and independent and involves immune cell types found in the infected cornea.
Tollip and IRAK-1 are key components of the TLR/IL-1R signaling pathway in mammals, which play crucial roles as mediators of the TLR/IL-1R signal transduction pathways. Although several TLRs have been found in fish, molecular associations, protein-protein interactions or the role of the TLR signaling pathway in infection-induced immunity in fish has received little attention. In this study, Tollip and IRAK-1 sequences of grass carp were isolated from a head kidney cDNA library. Full length transcripts and sequences of promoter regions were obtained by 3' and 5' RACE and genome walking, respectively. Reporter gene-promoter constructs and real-time RT-PCR analysis was used to determine grass carp Tollip and IRAK-1 transcription pattern in tissues. Recombinant proteins were used for antibodies production. Phylogenetically, the grass carp loci clustered with previously reported Tollip and IRAK-1genes, respectively, and their sequences shared the highest identity with the genes of zebrafish (Danio rerio). The promoter region of grass carp Tollip and IRAK-1 proved to be active. After viral infection transcript levels of both loci were upregulated in most immune-related tissues in a time-dependent manner. Using antibodies produced in this study, immunofluorescence analysis indicated that Tollip and IRAK-1 were uniformly distributed and co-localized in the cytoplasm of CIK cells. After viral infection, however, Tollip and IRAK-1 both trended toward the cell membrane. Our results demonstrate the existence of Tollip and IRAK-1 proteins in teleost species, and suggest that Tollip-IRAK-1 complexes are being recruited to receptor complexes after stimulation with virus. These results provide novel insights into the role of the TLR signaling pathway in teleosts, especially the action of teleost Tollip and IRAK-1 and the interaction of these molecules as part of this pathway.
The discovery of microRNA (miR) represents a novel paradigm in RNA-based regulation of gene expression and their dysregulation has become a hallmark of many a tumor. In virally associated cancers, the host-pathogen interaction could involve alteration in miR expression. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded EBNA2 is indispensable for the capacity of the virus to transform B cells in vitro. Here, we studied how it affects cellular miRs. Extensive miR profiling of the virus-infected and EBNA2-transfected B lymphoma cells revealed that oncomiR miR-21 is positively regulated by this viral protein. Conversely, Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cell lines infected with EBNA2 lacking P3HR1 strain did not show any increase in miR-21. EBNA2 increased phosphorylation of AKT and this was directly correlated with increased miR-21. In contrast, miR-146a was downregulated by EBNA2 in B lymphoma cells. Low miR-146a expression correlates with an elevated level of IRAK1 and type I interferon in EBNA2 transfectants. Taken together, the present data suggest that EBNA2 might contribute to EBV-induced B-cell transformation by altering miR expression and in particular by increasing oncomiR-like miR-21 and by affecting the antiviral responses of the innate immune system through downregulation of its key regulator miR-146a.
Lactoferrin (LF) is an important modulator of the immune response and inflammation. It has also been implicated in the regulation of bone tissue. In our previous study we demonstrated that bovine LF (bLF) reduces LPS-induced bone resorption through a reduction of TNF-α production in vivo. However, it was not known how bLF inhibits LPS-mediated TNF-α and RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand) production in osteoblasts. In this study we show that bLF impairs LPS-mediated TNF-α and RANKL production. bLF inhibited LPS-mediated osteoclastogenesis via osteoblasts in a co-culture system. Furthermore, bLF pretreatment inhibited LPS-induced NFκB DNA binding activity as well as IκBα and IKKβ (IκB kinase β) phosphorylation. MAP kinase activation was also inhibited by bLF pretreatment. However, bLF pretreatment failed to block the degradation of IRAK1 (interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1), which is an essential event after its activation. Remarkably, we found that bLF pretreatment inhibited LPS-mediated Lys-63-linked polyubiquitination of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6). We also found that bLF is mainly endocytosed through LRP1 (lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1) and intracellular distributed bLF binds to endogenous TRAF6. In addition, bLF inhibited IL-1β- and flagellin-induced TRAF6-dependent activation of the NFκB signaling pathway. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that bLF inhibits NFκB and MAP kinase activation, which play critical roles in chronic inflammatory disease by interfering with the TRAF6 polyubiquitination process. Thus, bLF could be a potent therapeutic agent for inflammatory diseases associated with bone destruction, such as periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Mechanical ventilation generates biophysical forces, including high transmural pressures, which exacerbate lung inflammation. This study sought to determine whether microRNAs (miRNAs) respond to this mechanical force and play a role in regulating mechanically induced inflammation. Primary human small airway epithelial cells (HSAEpCs) were exposed to 12 h of oscillatory pressure and/or the proinflammatory cytokine TNF-α. Experiments were also conducted after manipulating miRNA expression and silencing the transcription factor NF-κB or toll-like receptor proteins IRAK1 and TRAF6. NF-κB activation, IL-6/IL-8/IL-1β cytokine secretion, miRNA expression, and IRAK1/TRAF6 protein levels were monitored. A total of 12 h of oscillatory pressure and TNF-α resulted in a 5- to 7-fold increase in IL-6/IL-8 cytokine secretion, and oscillatory pressure also resulted in a time-dependent increase in IL-6/IL-8/IL-1β cytokine secretion. Pressure and TNF-α also resulted in distinct patterns of miRNA expression, with miR-146a being the most deregulated miRNA. Manipulating miR-146a expression altered pressure-induced cytokine secretion. Silencing of IRAK1 or TRAF6, confirmed targets of miR-146a, resulted in a 3-fold decrease in pressure-induced cytokine secretion. Cotransfection experiments demonstrate that miR-146a's regulation of pressure-induced cytokine secretion depends on its targeting of both IRAK1 and TRAF6. MiR-146a is a mechanosensitive miRNA that is rapidly up-regulated by oscillatory pressure and plays an important role in regulating mechanically induced inflammation in lung epithelia.
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDCs) from human umbilical cord blood (UCB) produce lower amounts of IFN-α upon TLR stimulation compared with adult counterparts. This difference may play a role in the low graft-versus-host disease rate after UCB transplantation and in the impaired immune response of the neonate to pathogens. Comparing UCB PDC to their adults counterparts, we found that they exhibited a mature surface phenotype and a normal antigen uptake. They upregulated costimulatory molecules upon activation, although with delayed kinetics. Protein, but not ARN, levels of TLR-9, MyD88, IRAK1 and IRF-7, involved in the TLR-9 signaling pathway were reduced. The expression levels of miR-146a and miR-155, known to be involved in the post-transcriptional down-regulation of immune responses, were higher. These data point out a post-transcriptional down-regulation of the TLR-9/IRF-7 signaling pathway in UCB PDC.
Recognition of microbial products by members of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family initiates intracellular signaling cascades that result in NF-κB activation and subsequent production of inflammatory cytokines. We explored the potential roles of microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulating TLR pathways. A target analysis approach to the TLR4 pathway adaptor molecules identified several putative targets of miR-200a, miR-200b and miR-200c. miRNA mimics were co-transfected with a NF-κB activity reporter plasmid into HEK293 cells stably expressing TLR4 (HEK293-TLR4). Mimics of both miR-200b and miR-200c, but not miR-200a, decreased NF-κB reporter activity in either untreated cells or in cells treated with endotoxin:MD2 as a TLR4 agonist. Transfection of HEK293-TLR4 cells with miR-200b or miR-200c significantly decreased expression of MyD88, whereas TLR4, IRAK-1 and TRAF-6 mRNAs were unaffected. When miR-200b or miR-200c mimics were transfected into the differentiated monocytic THP-1 cell line, the abundance of MyD88 transcripts, as well as LPS-induced expression of the pro-inflammatory molecules IL-6, CXCL9 and TNF-α were diminished. These data define miRNAs miR-200b and miR-200c as factors that modify the efficiency of TLR4 signaling through the MyD88-dependent pathway and can thus affect host innate defenses against microbial pathogens.
The neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin 2 (LCN2) is a critical inflammatory mediator persistently induced during endotoxemia, contributing to tubular damage and kidney failure. The intracellular process responsible for persistent induction of LCN2 by bacterial endotoxin Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is not well understood. Using primary kidney fibroblasts, we observed that LPS-induced LCN2 expression requires a coupled circuit involving an early transient phase of AP-1 path and a late persistent phase of C/EBPδ path, both of which are dependent upon the interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1 (IRAK-1). Using immunoprecipitation analysis we observed transient binding of AP-1 to the promoters of both TNFα and C/ebpδ. On the other hand, we only observed persistent binding of C/EBPδ to its own promoter but not on TNFα. Blockage of new protein synthesis using cyclohexamide significantly reduced the expression of C/EBPδ as well as LCN2. By chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses, we demonstrated that LPS recruited C/EBPδ to the Lcn2 promoter in WT, but not IRAK-1 deficient fibroblasts. A differential equation-based computational model captured the dynamic circuit leading to the persistent induction of LCN2. In vivo, we observed elevated levels of LCN2 in kidneys harvested from LPS-injected WT mice as compared to IRAK-1 deficient mice. Taken together, this study has identified an integrated intracellular network involved in the persistent induction of LCN2 by LPS.
Pellino-1 has recently been identified as a regulator of interleukin-1 (IL-1) signaling, but its roles in regulation of responses of human cells to human pathogens are unknown. We investigated the potential roles of Pellino-1 in the airways. We show for the first time that Pellino-1 regulates responses to a human pathogen, rhinovirus minor group serotype 1B (RV-1B). Knockdown of Pellino-1 by small interfering RNA (siRNA) was associated with impaired production of innate immune cytokines such as CXCL8 from human primary bronchial epithelial cells in response to RV-1B, without impairment in production of antiviral interferons (IFN), and without loss of control of viral replication. Pellino-1 actions were likely to be independent of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) regulation, since Pellino-1 knockdown in primary epithelial cells did not alter responses to IL-1 but did inhibit responses to poly(I·C), a Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) activator that does not signal via IRAK-1 to engender a response. These data indicate that Pellino-1 represents a novel target that regulates responses of human airways to human viral pathogens, independently of IRAK signaling. Neutralization of Pellino-1 may therefore provide opportunities to inhibit potentially harmful neutrophilic inflammation of the airways induced by respiratory viruses, without loss of control of the underlying viral infection.
Tuberculosis (TB) disease in HIV co-infected patients contributes to increased mortality by activating innate and adaptive immune signaling cascades that stimulate HIV-1 replication, leading to an increase in viral load. Here, we demonstrate that silencing of the expression of the transcription factor nuclear factor of activated T cells 5 (NFAT5) by RNA interference (RNAi) inhibits Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTb)-stimulated HIV-1 replication in co-infected macrophages. We show that NFAT5 gene and protein expression are strongly induced by MTb, which is a Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligand, and that an intact NFAT5 binding site in the viral promoter of R5-tropic HIV-1 subtype B and subtype C molecular clones is required for efficent induction of HIV-1 replication by MTb. Furthermore, silencing by RNAi of key components of the TLR pathway in human monocytes, including the downstream signaling molecules MyD88, IRAK1, and TRAF6, significantly inhibits MTb-induced NFAT5 gene expression. Thus, the innate immune response to MTb infection induces NFAT5 gene and protein expression, and NFAT5 plays a crucial role in MTb regulation of HIV-1 replication via a direct interaction with the viral promoter. These findings also demonstrate a general role for NFAT5 in TLR- and MTb-mediated control of gene expression.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from Porphyromonas gingivalis, an oral Gram-negative bacterium, acts as a virulence factor for periodontal disease. Although P. gingivalis LPS does not induce proinflammatory cytokines as strongly as Escherichia coli LPS, it is still able to exploit negative Toll-like receptor (TLR) regulatory pathways and facilitate pathogen persistence. Recent reports suggest that microRNAs (miRNAs) are also involved in the regulation of TLR signaling. Here, we demonstrate that P. gingivalis LPS strongly induces miRNA-146a expression in THP-1 cells and THP-1-derived macrophages. However, the inhibition or overexpression of miR-146a, through the transfection of a specific inhibitor or precursor, respectively, had little effect on cytokine production in macrophages stimulated with P. gingivalis LPS. Moreover, the expression of interleukin-1 associated-kinase-1 (IRAK-1) and tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF6), potential target molecules of miR-146a, were not affected by the stimulation with P. gingivalis LPS. Because TLR signaling induces various negative regulators, these results call into question the role of miR-146a in cells stimulated with TLR ligands.
BACKGROUND: Toll-like receptors (TLRs) signalling is reported to be primed by the infection of human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum. However, little is known about the regulation of macrophages TLR signalling by the infection of lethal or non-lethal strain of rodent malaria parasites.METHODS: BALB/c mice were infected with non-lethal strain Plasmodium yoelii 17XNL or lethal strain P. yoelii 17XL. Peritoneal macrophages were isolated to study its immune response to pRBC lysate, and TLRs (TLR2, TLR4, and TLR9) agonists, and the expression of TLRs and intracellular signalling molecules were also investigated by flow cytometry and semi-quantitive RT-PCR.RESULTS: The reactivity of peritoneal macrophages from the mice infected with lethal strain P. y 17XL or non-lethal strain P. y 17XNL were enhanced to pRBC lysate, and TLR2, TLR4, and TLR9 agonists at one, three and five days post-infection. Of all the tested TLRs, only TLR2 was up-regulated on peritoneal macrophages of mice infected with either strain. However, transcription of intracellular signalling molecules MyD88, IRAK-1, and TRAF-6 was significantly up-regulated in peritoneal macrophages from mice infected either with P. yoelii 17XL or P. yoelii 17XNL at one, three and five days post-infection. However, the enhanced TLRs response of macrophage from P. yoelii 17XNL-infected mice persisted for a much longer time than that from P. yoelii 17XL-infected mice.CONCLUSION: Both P. yoelii 17XL and 17XNL strains could enhance the response of peritoneal macrophages to pRBC lysate and TLR agonists, through up-regulating the expression of TLR2 and intracellular signalling molecules MyD88, IRAK-1, and TRAF-6. In addition, prolonged high response of macrophage from P. yoelii 17XNL-infected mice might be associated with the more efficiently controlling of P. yoelii 17XNL growth in mice at early stage.
IRAK1 and miR-499 play an important role in the etiology of rheumatoid arthritis. Few studies to date have focused on the influence of the IRAK1 rs3027898 C/A and hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 T/C polymorphisms in the susceptibility of the Chinese population to rheumatoid arthritis. We hypothesized that these polymorphisms may contribute to rheumatoid arthritis susceptibility. We studied IRAK1 rs3027898 C/A and hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 T/C gene polymorphisms in 214 rheumatoid arthritis cases and 478 controls in a Chinese population. Genotyping was performed by using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). When the IRAK1 rs3027898 CC homozygote genotype was used as the reference group, the AA genotype was associated with significantly increased risk of rheumatoid arthritis (odds ratio (OR) = 1.91, 95 % confidence interval (CI) = 1.12-3.26, p = 0.017). A significantly increased risk of RA associated with the IRAK1 rs3027898 AA genotype was more evident among females, younger patients, CRP negative patients and both anti-CCP positive and negative patients compared with the IRAK1 rs3027898 CC/CA genotypes. The hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 T/C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was not significantly associated with the risk for rheumatoid arthritis. Our findings suggest that the functional SNP IRAK1 rs3027898 C/A variant allele is associated with the development of rheumatoid arthritis. However, the hsa-mir-499 rs3746444 T/C polymorphism may not be associated with susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis.
Smokers with airflow obstruction have an increased risk of atherosclerosis, but the relationship between the pathogenesis of these diseases is not well understood. To determine whether hypercholesterolemia alters lung inflammation and emphysema formation, we examined the lung phenotype of two hypercholesterolemic murine models of atherosclerosis at baseline and on a high-fat diet. Airspace enlargement developed in the lungs of apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe(-/-)) mice exposed to a Western-type diet for 10 wk. An elevated number of macrophages and lymphocytes accompanied by an increase in matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activity and MMP-12 expression was observed in the lungs of Apoe(-/-) mice on a Western-type diet. In contrast, low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient (Ldlr(-/-)) mice did not exhibit lung destruction or inflammatory changes. Most importantly, we revealed augmented expression of the downstream targets of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway, interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1, and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, in the lungs of Apoe(-/-) mice fed with a Western-type diet. In addition, we demonstrated overexpression of MMP-9 in Apoe(-/-) macrophages treated with TLR4 ligand, augmented with the addition of oxidized LDL, suggesting that emphysema in these mice results from the activation of the TLR pathway secondary to known abnormal cholesterol efflux. Our findings indicate that, in Apoe(-/-) mice fed with an atherogenic diet, abnormal cholesterol efflux leads to increased systemic inflammation with subsequent lung damage and emphysema formation.
Gram-negative bacteria release lipopolysaccharide (LPS) into the bloodstream. Here, it engages Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 expressed in human lung microvascular endothelia (HMVEC-Ls) to open the paracellular pathway through Src family kinase (SFK) activation. The signaling molecules that couple TLR4 to the SFK-driven barrier disruption are unknown. In HMVEC-Ls, siRNA-induced silencing of TIRAP/Mal and overexpression of dominant-negative TIRAP/Mal each blocked LPS-induced SFK activation and increases in transendothelial [(14)C]albumin flux, implicating the MyD88-dependent pathway. LPS increased TRAF6 autoubiquitination and binding to IRAK1. Silencing of TRAF6, TRAF6-dominant-negative overexpression, or preincubation of HMVEC-Ls with a cell-permeable TRAF6 decoy peptide decreased both LPS-induced SFK activation and barrier disruption. LPS increased binding of both c-Src and Fyn to GST-TRAF6 but not to a GST-TRAF6 mutant in which the three prolines in the putative Src homology 3 domain-binding motif (amino acids 461-469) were substituted with alanines. A cell-permeable decoy peptide corresponding to the same proline-rich motif reduced SFK binding to WT GST-TRAF6 compared with the Pro → Ala-substituted peptide. Finally, LPS increased binding of activated Tyr(P)(416)-SFK to GST-TRAF6, and preincubation of HMVEC-Ls with SFK-selective tyrosine kinase inhibitors, PP2 and SU6656, diminished TRAF6 binding to c-Src and Fyn. During the TRAF6-SFK association, TRAF6 catalyzed Lys(63)-linked ubiquitination of c-Src and Fyn, whereas SFK activation increased tyrosine phosphorylation of TRAF6. The TRAF6 decoy peptide blocked both LPS-induced SFK ubiquitination and TRAF6 phosphorylation. Together, these data indicate that the proline-rich Src homology 3 domain-binding motif in TRAF6 interacts directly with activated SFKs to couple LPS engagement of TLR4 to SFK activation and loss of barrier integrity in HMVEC-Ls.
IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1rn) is a protein that binds to IL-1 receptors (IL-1r1) and inhibits the binding of IL-1α and IL-1β. In recent years, IL-1rn has been implicated to be associated with many human health problems. The effects of treatment of several inflammatory disorders with anakinra, which is an interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist, have also been reported. Both positive and negative effects have been described. In this review, we systematically analyzed the expression, correlation, and regulation of IL-1rn and its 13 partner genes using available gene expression profiles from a variety of tissues in a well known transcriptome database, Genenetwork. The 13 partner genes include IL-1r1, IL-1β, IL-1α, Myd88, Irak1, Irak2, Irak4, Traf6, Tlr4, IL-1rap, Ikbkap, Nfkb1, and Nfkb2. Gene expression profiles are from 10 tissues including spleen, kidney, lung, whole brain, eye, prefrontal cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus, striatum, and nucleus accumbens. Our analysis indicated that the interactions among IL-1rn and its partner are complex and different from tissues to tissues, suggesting a broad spectrum of the effect of IL-1rn on biological and metabolic pathways. Transcripts and protein sequences resulted from different splicing, interaction with genomic background of individuals, and environmental factors affect function of IL-1rn. At present, our knowledge on the function of IL-1rn and its partner in various tissues or organs is very limited. The long term and extended effect of anakinra on human health needs further investigations. In the future, targeted sequences or oligos of Il-1rn might be ideal for therapeutic application with less toxic and more specific in the treatment of specific disease. Detailed study on the molecular function of IL-1rn and its interaction with other genes and environmental factors is essential for development therapeutic application using IL-1rn.
BACKGROUND: Low adiponectin, a well-recognized antidiabetic adipokine, has been associated with obesity-related inflammation, oxidative stress and insulin resistance. Globular adiponectin is an important regulator of the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)/NFκB pathway in monocytes of obese subjects. It protects against inflammation and oxidative stress by inducing IRAK3. microRNA (miR)-146b-5p inhibits NFκB-mediated inflammation by targeted repression of IRAK1 and TNF receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF6). Therefore, we measured the expression of miR-146b-5p in monocytes of obese subjects. Because it was low we determined the involvement of this miR in the anti-inflammatory, antioxidative and insulin signaling action of globular adiponectin.METHODS: miR-146b-5p expression in monocytes of obese subjects was determined by qRT-PCR. The effect of miR-146b-5p silencing on molecular markers of inflammation, oxidative stress and insulin signaling and the association with globular adiponectin was assessed in human THP-1 monocytes.RESULTS: miR-146b-5p was downregulated in monocytes of obese persons. Low globular adiponectin decreased miR-146b-5p and IRAK3 in THP-1 monocytes, associated with increased mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS). Intracellular ROS and insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS1) protein were unchanged. Silencing of miR-146b-5p with an antisense inhibitor resulted in increased expression of IRAK1 and TRAF6 leading to more NFκB p65 DNA binding activity and TNFα. As a response IRAK3 and IRS1 protein increased. Mitochondrial and intracellular ROS production did not increase despite more inflammation. In addition, exposure of miR-146b-5p-depleted THP-1 monocytes to high levels of globular adiponectin resulted in an increased production of TNFα and intracellular ROS. Still, they did not lose their potential to increase IRAK3 and IRS1 protein and to decrease mitochondrial ROS.CONCLUSION: miR-146b-5p, decreased in monocytes during obesity, is a major mediator of the anti-inflammatory action of globular adiponectin. It appears not to be involved in insulin signaling possibly by protective response of IRAK3 and lack of mitochondrial ROS production.
The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) triggered by bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plays a key role during the pathogenesis of sepsis. Given the key role that the interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) plays in LPS-mediated Toll-like-receptor 4 (TLR4) pathway, we herein tested whether deletion of IRAK-1 gene in mice may render protection from LPS-induced oxidative tissue damage. In this report, we studied the levels of oxidative stress in vital organs including liver, kidney, and brain from wild type (WT) and IRAK-1 deficient mice injected with a lethal dose of LPS (25mg/kg), a TLR4-specific agonist. We demonstrated that LPS challenge induced marked elevation of lipid peroxidation and nitrite levels in the plasma and tissues of WT mice, as well as elevated pro-inflammatory mediators. In contrast, IRAK-1 deficient mice had significantly lower lipid peroxidation and nitrite levels, as well as lower levels of pro-inflammatory mediators. Mechanistically, LPS triggered higher levels of iNOS activity and elevated membrane translocation of p47(phox), a key component of NADPH oxidase in immune cell derived from WT mice compared to IRAK-1 deficient mice. Additionally, tissues harvested from WT mice injected with LPS exhibited reduced activities of anti-oxidant enzymes including glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase, and superoxide dismutase (SOD). In contrast, LPS challenge failed to reduce the activities of GPx and SOD in IRAK-1 deficient tissues. As a consequence, LPS caused significantly pronounced damage to liver and kidney tissues in WT mice as compared to IRAK-1 deficient mice.
Micro-RNAs (miRNAs) are short, non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression post transcriptionally. Several studies have demonstrated the relevance of miRNAs for a wide range of cellular mechanisms, however, the current knowledge on how miRNAs respond to relevant external stimuli, e.g. in disease scenarios is very limited. To generate a descriptive picture of the miRNA network associated to inflammatory responses, we quantified the levels of 330 miRNAs upon stimulation with a panel of pro-inflammatory components such as microbial pattern molecules (flagellin, diacylated lipopeptide lipopolysaccharide, muramyl dipeptide), infection with Listeria monocytogenes and TNF-α as pro-inflammatory control in primary human monocytes using real time PCR. As a result, we found distinct miRNA response clusters for each stimulus used. Additionally, we identified potential target genes of three selected miRNAs miR-129-5p, miR-146a and miR-378 which were part of PAMP-specific response clusters by transfecting THP1 monocytes with the corresponding pre- or anti-miRNAs and microfluidic PCR arrays. The miRNAs induced distinct transcriptomal signatures, e.g. overexpression of miRNA129-5p, which was selectively upregulated by the NOD2-elicitor MDP, led to an upregulation of DEFB1, IRAK1, FBXW7 and IKK γ (Nemo). Our findings on highly co-regulated clusters of miRNAs support the hypothesis that miRNAs act in functional groups. This study indicates that miRNAs play an important role in fine-tuning inflammatory mechanisms. Further investigation in the field of miRNA responses will help to understand their effects on gene expression and may close the regulatory gap between mRNA and protein expression in inflammatory diseases.
The suggestion that there is a connection between chronic intraprostatic inflammation and prostate cancer was declared some years ago. As Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are the key players in the processes of chronic intraprostatic inflammation, there is a hypothesis that TLR gene polymorphisms may be associated with prostate cancer risk. Although a number of comprehensive studies have been conducted on large samples in various countries, reliable connections between these single nucleotide polymorphisms and prostate cancer risk, stage, grade, aggressiveness, ability to metastasize, and mortality have not been detected. Results have also varied slightly in different populations. The data obtained regarding the absence of connection between the polymorphisms of the genes encoding interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases (IRAK1 and IRAK4) and prostate cancer risk might indicate a lack of association between inherited variation in the TLR signaling pathway and prostate cancer risk. It is possible to consider that polymorphisms of genes encoding TLRs and proteins of the TLR pathway also do not play a major role in the etiology and pathogenesis of prostate cancer. Feasibly, it would be better to focus research on associations between TLR single nucleotide polymorphisms and cancer risk in other infection-related cancer types.
In atherosclerosis macrophages contribute to disease progression. After infiltrating atherosclerotic lesions they accumulate oxLDL (oxidized low density lipoproteins) and differentiate into foam cells. During this process inhibition of TLR4 (Toll-like receptor 4)-dependent IFNβ expression occurs. To understand molecular mechanisms how oxLDL inhibits LPS-induced IFNβ expression in macrophage-derived foam cells, we analyzed the impact of oxLDL on signaling pathways upstream of IFNβ expression. We identified mono-ubiquitination of TANK (TRAF family member-associated NFκB activator), a scaffold protein of the TRIF (TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing IFNβ)-dependent TLR4-signaling cascade. Modified TANK inhibits recruitment of TBK1 (TANK-binding kinase 1) to TRAF3 (TNF receptor associated factor 3) and the subsequent activation of the transcription factor IRF3 (interferon regulatory factor 3). OxLDL stimulates TANK mono-ubiquitination by subsequent activation of IRAK1/4 (interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinases 1 and 4) and Pellino3 downstream of SR-A1 (scavenger receptor-A1). Our observations highlight the regulatory impact of IRAK1/4 and Pellino3 on the TRIF-dependent TLR4-signaling cascade, which might be of general importance for disease conditions associated with macrophage pathologies such as atherosclerosis.
We examined expression and function of TLRs in enthesitis-related arthritis (ERA) patients. RNA levels of TLR1, TLR3, and TLRs 5–8 were measured in 24 ERA peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), 18 synovial fluid mononuclear cells (SFMC), and IRAK1, IRAK4, TRIF, TRAF3, and TRAF6 in 18 PBMC and 10 SFMC. IL-6 and IL-8 were measured in supernatants from ERA PBMC (n=7), SFMC (n=3), and healthy PBMC (n=5) cultured with ligands for TLR1/2 (Pam 3-cys), TLR3 (polyI:C), TLR5 (flagellin), and TLR2/6 (zymosan). TLRs 1, 3, 5, and 6 were measured in whole blood (n=20 ERA, seven healthy) and SFMC (n=2) by flow cytometry. ERA PBMC compared to healthy PBMC and SFMC compared to ERA PBMC had higher RNA expression of TLR1, TLR3, TLR5, TLR6, IRAK1, IRAK4, TRIF, TRAF3, and TRAF6. TLR7 and TLR8 RNA expression was similar in all study groups. IL-6 and IL-8 levels were higher in stimulated ERA SFMC compared to ERA PBMC and in ERA PBMC compared to control PBMC. TLRs 1, 3, and 6 were also overexpressed at the protein level.
The mitogen-activated kinases JNK1/2/3 are key enzymes in signaling modules that transduce and integrate extracellular stimuli into coordinated cellular response. Here, we report the discovery of irreversible inhibitors of JNK1/2/3. We describe two JNK3 cocrystal structures at 2.60 and 2.97 Å resolution that show the compounds form covalent bonds with a conserved cysteine residue. JNK-IN-8 is a selective JNK inhibitor that inhibits phosphorylation of c-Jun, a direct substrate of JNK, in cells exposed to submicromolar drug in a manner that depends on covalent modification of the conserved cysteine residue. Extensive biochemical, cellular, and pathway-based profiling establish the selectivity of JNK-IN-8 for JNK and suggests that the compound will be broadly useful as a pharmacological probe of JNK-dependent signal transduction. Potential lead compounds have also been identified for kinases, including IRAK1, PIK3C3, PIP4K2C, and PIP5K3.
BACKGROUND: Chronic neuroinflammation is a hallmark of several neurological disorders associated with cognitive loss. Activated microglia and secreted factors such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α are key mediators of neuroinflammation and may contribute to neuronal dysfunction. Our study was aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of a novel analog of thalidomide, 3,6'-dithiothalidomide (DT), an agent with anti-TNF-α activity, in a model of chronic neuroinflammation.METHODS: Lipopolysaccharide or artificial cerebrospinal fluid was infused into the fourth ventricle of three-month-old rats for 28 days. Starting on day 29, animals received daily intraperitoneal injections of DT (56 mg/kg/day) or vehicle for 14 days. Thereafter, cognitive function was assessed by novel object recognition, novel place recognition and Morris water maze, and animals were euthanized 25 min following water maze probe test evaluation.RESULTS: Chronic LPS-infusion was characterized by increased gene expression of the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β in the hippocampus. Treatment with DT normalized TNF-α levels back to control levels but not IL-1β. Treatment with DT attenuated the expression of TLR2, TLR4, IRAK1 and Hmgb1, all genes involved in the TLR-mediated signaling pathway associated with classical microglia activation. However DT did not impact the numbers of MHC Class II immunoreactive cells. Chronic neuroinflammation impaired novel place recognition, spatial learning and memory function; but it did not impact novel object recognition. Importantly, treatment with DT restored cognitive function in LPS-infused animals and normalized the fraction of hippocampal neurons expressing the plasticity-related immediate-early gene Arc.CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrate that the TNF-α synthesis inhibitor DT can significantly reverse hippocampus-dependent cognitive deficits induced by chronic neuroinflammation. These results suggest that TNF-α is a critical mediator of chronic neuroinflammation-induced neuronal dysfunction and cognitive impairment and targeting its synthesis could provide an effective therapeutic approach to several human neurodegenerative diseases.
