Inherited bone marrow failure associated with heterozygous mutations in GATA2 predisposes toward hematological malignancies, but the mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we investigate the mechanistic basis of marrow failure in a zebrafish model of GATA2 deficiency. Single-cell transcriptomics and chromatin accessibility assays reveal that loss of gata2a leads to skewing toward the erythroid lineage at the expense of myeloid cells, associated with loss of cebpa expression and decreased PU.1 and CEBPA transcription factor accessibility in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Furthermore, gata2a mutants show impaired expression of npm1a, the zebrafish NPM1 ortholog. Progressive loss of npm1a in HSPCs is associated with elevated levels of DNA damage in gata2a mutants. Thus, Gata2a maintains myeloid lineage priming through cebpa and protects against genome instability and marrow failure by maintaining expression of npm1a. Our results establish a potential mechanism underlying bone marrow failure in GATA2 deficiency.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Recent discoveries have provided evidence for mechanistic links between the master regulator of hematopoiesis GATA2 and the key component of interferon and innate immunity signaling pathways, interferon-regulatory factor-8 (IRF8). These links have important implications for the control of myeloid differentiation in physiological and pathological states.RECENT FINDINGS: GATA2 deficiency resulting from loss of the Gata2 -77 enhancer in progenitors triggers an alarm that instigates the transcriptional induction of innate immune signaling and distorts a myeloid differentiation program. This pathological alteration renders progenitors hyperresponsive to interferon γ, toll-like receptor and interleukin-6 signaling and impaired in granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor signaling. IRF8 upregulation in -77-/- progenitors promotes monocyte and dendritic cell differentiation while suppressing granulocytic differentiation. As PU.1 promotes transcription of Irf8 and other myeloid and B-lineage genes, GATA2-mediated repression of these genes opposes the PU.1-dependent activating mechanism.SUMMARY: As GATA2 deficiency syndrome is an immunodeficiency disorder often involving myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia, elucidating how GATA2 commissions and decommissions genome activity and developmental regulatory programs will unveil mechanisms that go awry when GATA2 levels and/or activities are disrupted.
Disease progression in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), myelodysplastic-myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPN), and myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), altogether referred to as myeloid neoplasms (MN), is a major source of mortality. Apart from transformation to acute myeloid leukemia, the clinical progression of MN is mostly due to the overgrowth of pre-existing hematopoiesis by the MN without an additional transforming event. Still, MN may evolve along other recurrent yet less well-known scenarios: (1) acquisition of MPN features in MDS or (2) MDS features in MPN, (3) progressive myelofibrosis (MF), (4) acquisition of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML)-like characteristics in MPN or MDS, (5) development of myeloid sarcoma (MS), (6) lymphoblastic (LB) transformation, (7) histiocytic/dendritic outgrowths. These MN-transformation types exhibit a propensity for extramedullary sites (e.g., skin, lymph nodes, liver), highlighting the importance of lesional biopsies in diagnosis. Gain of distinct mutations/mutational patterns seems to be causative or at least accompanying several of the above-mentioned scenarios. MDS developing MPN features often acquire MPN driver mutations (usually JAK2), and MF. Conversely, MPN gaining MDS features develop, e.g., ASXL1, IDH1/2, SF3B1, and/or SRSF2 mutations. Mutations of RAS-genes are often detected in CMML-like MPN progression. MS ex MN is characterized by complex karyotypes, FLT3 and/or NPM1 mutations, and often monoblastic phenotype. MN with LB transformation is associated with secondary genetic events linked to lineage reprogramming leading to the deregulation of ETV6, IKZF1, PAX5, PU.1, and RUNX1. Finally, the acquisition of MAPK-pathway gene mutations may shape MN toward histiocytic differentiation. Awareness of all these less well-known MN-progression types is important to guide optimal individual patient management.
BACKGROUND: Plant-derived exosomes-like nanovesicles (PDENs) have been found to be advantageous in disease treatment and drug delivery, but research on their biogenesis, compositional analysis, and key marker proteins is still in its infancy, which limits the standardized production of PDENs. Efficient preparation of PDENs continues to be a major challenge.RESULTS: Novel PDENs-based chemotherapeutic immune modulators, Catharanthus roseus (L.) Don leaves-derived exosome-like nanovesicles (CLDENs) were isolated from apoplastic fluid. CLDENs were membrane structured vesicles with a particle size of 75.51 ± 10.19 nm and a surface charge of -21.8 mV. CLDENs exhibited excellent stability, tolerating multiple enzymatic digestions, resisting extreme pH environments, and remaining stable in the gastrointestinal simulating fluid. Biodistribution experiments showed that CLDENs could be internalized by immune cells, and targeted at immune organs after intraperitoneal injection. The lipidomic analysis revealed CLDENs' special lipid composition, which contained 36.5% ether-phospholipids. Differential proteomics supported the origin of CLDENs in multivesicular bodies, and six marker proteins of CLDENs were identified for the first time. 60 ~ 240 μg/ml of CLDENs promoted the polarization and phagocytosis of macrophages as well as lymphocyte proliferation in vitro. Administration of 20 mg/kg and 60 mg/kg of CLDENs alleviated white blood cell reduction and bone marrow cell cycle arrest in immunosuppressive mice induced by cyclophosphamide. CLDENs strongly stimulated the secretion of TNF-α, activated NF-κB signal pathway and increased the expression of the hematopoietic function-related transcription factor PU.1 both in vitro and in vivo. To ensure a steady supply of CLDENs, plant cell culture systems of C. roseus were established to provide CLDENs-like nanovesicles which had similar physical properties and biological activities. Gram-level nanovesicles were successfully obtained from the culture medium, and the yield was three times as high as the original.CONCLUSIONS: Our research supports the use of CLDENs as a nano-biomaterial with excellent stability and biocompatibility, and for post-chemotherapy immune adjuvant therapy applications.
Copyright © 2023 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.
Despite extensive characterization of the state and function of haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), the use of transcription factors to define the HSC population is still limited. We show here that the HSC population in mouse bone marrow can be defined by the distinct expression levels of Spi1 and Gata1. By using a double fluorescence knock-in mouse model, PGdKI, in which the expression levels of PU.1 and GATA-1 are indicated by the expression of GFP and mCherry, respectively, we uncover that the HSCs with lymphoid and myeloid repopulating activity are specifically enriched in a Lin- PU.1dim GATA-1- (LPG) cell subset. In vivo competitive repopulation assays demonstrate that bone marrow cells gated by LPG exhibit haematopoietic reconstitution activity which is comparable to that of classical Lin- Sca1+ c-kit+ (LSK). The integrated analysis of single-cell RNA sequence data from LPG and LSK-gated cells reveals that a transcriptional network governed by core TFs contributes to regulation of HSC multipotency. These discoveries provide new clues for HSC characterization and functional study.
Obesity and type 2 diabetes are two closely related diseases representing a serious threat worldwide. An increase in metabolic rate through enhancement of non-shivering thermogenesis in adipose tissue may represent a potential therapeutic strategy. Nevertheless, a better understanding of thermogenesis transcriptional regulation is needed to allow the development of new effective treatments. Here, we aimed to characterize the specific transcriptomic response of white and brown adipose tissues after thermogenic induction. Using cold exposure to induce thermogenesis in mice, we identified mRNAs and miRNAs that were differentially expressed in several adipose depots. In addition, integration of transcriptomic data in regulatory networks of miRNAs and transcription factors allowed the identification of key nodes likely controlling metabolism and immune response. Moreover, we identified the putative role of the transcription factor PU.1 in the regulation of PPARγ-mediated thermogenic response of subcutaneous white adipose tissue. Therefore, the present study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms that regulate non-shivering thermogenesis.
ANP32B, a member of the acidic leucine-rich nuclear phosphoprotein 32 kDa (ANP32) family of proteins, is critical for normal development because its constitutive knockout mice are perinatal lethal. It is also shown that ANP32B acts as a tumor-promoting gene in some kinds of cancer such as breast cancer and chronic myelogenous leukemia. Herein, we observe that ANP32B is lowly expressed in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) patients, which correlates with poor prognosis. Furthermore, we utilized the N-myc or BCR-ABLp190 -induced B-ALL mouse model to investigate the role of ANP32B in B-ALL development. Intriguingly, conditional deletion of Anp32b in hematopoietic cells significantly promotes leukemogenesis in two B-ALL mouse models. Mechanistically, ANP32B interacts with purine rich box-1 (PU.1) and enhances the transcriptional activity of PU.1 in B-ALL cells. Overexpression of PU.1 dramatically suppresses B-ALL progression, and highly expressed PU.1 significantly reverses the accelerated leukemogenesis in Anp32b-deficient mice. Collectively, our findings identify ANP32B as a suppressor gene and provide novel insight into B-ALL pathogenesis.
The pro-inflammatory phenotype of microglia usually induces neuroinflammatory reactions in neuropathic pain. Glycometabolism shift to glycolysis can promote the pro-inflammatory phenotype transition of microglia. The omics data analysis suggest a critical role for Lyn dysregulation in neuropathic pain. The present study aimed at exploring the mechanism of Lyn-mediated glycolysis enhancement of microglia in neuropathic pain. Neuropathic pain model was established by chronic constriction injury (CCI), then pain thresholds and Lyn expression were measured. Lyn inhibitor Bafetinib and siRNA-lyn knockdown were administrated intrathecally to evaluate the effects of Lyn on pain thresholds, glycolysis and interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) nuclear translocation of microglia in vivo and in vitro. ChIP was carried out to observe the binding of transcription factors SP1, PU.1 to glycolytic gene promoters by IRF5 knockdown. Finally, the relationship between glycolysis and pro-inflammatory phenotype transition of microglia was evaluated. CCI led to the upregulation of Lyn expression and glycolysis enhancement in microglia of spinal dorsal horn. Bafetinib or siRNA-lyn knockdown intrathecally alleviated pain hyperalgesia, suppressed glycolysis enhancement and inhibited nuclear translocation of IRF5 in CCI mice. Also, IRF5 promoted the binding of transcription factors SP1, PU.1 to glycolytic gene promoters, and then the enhanced glycolysis facilitated the proliferation and pro-inflammatory phenotype transition of microglia and contributed to neuropathic pain. Lyn-mediated glycolysis enhancement of microglia contributes to neuropathic pain through facilitating IRF5 nuclear translocation in spinal dorsal horn.
Psoriasis is currently considered to be an immune and inflammatory disease characterized by massive immune cells infiltration including macrophages. It has been reported that macrophage-inducible C-type lectin (Mincle) is essential to maintain the pro-inflammatory phenotype of M1 macrophages, however, its role and mechanisms in psoriasis remain largely unknown. A model of psoriasis was induced in mice by a daily topical application of imiquimod for 7 days. Role and mechanisms of Mincle in macrophage-mediated psoriasis were investigated in clodronate liposomes induced macrophage depletion mice followed by adoptively transferring with Mincle-expressing or -knockout (KO) macrophages, and in macrophage specific Mincle knockout mice (Mincleloxp/loxp/Lyz2-cre+/+). Finally, a Mincle neutralizing antibody was employed to the psoriasis mice to reveal the therapeutic potential for psoriasis by targeting Mincle. Mincle was highly expressed by M1 macrophages in the skin lesions of patients and mice with psoriasis. Clodronate liposomes-induced macrophage depletion inhibited psoriasis in mice, which was restored by adoptive transfer with Mincle-expressing macrophages but not by Mincle-KO macrophages. This was further confirmed in macrophage-specific Mincle-KO mice. Mechanistically, macrophages mediated psoriasis via the Mincle-Syk-NF-κB pathway as blocking macrophage Mincle inhibited Syk/NF-κB-driven skin lesions and epidermal injury in vivo and in vitro. We also found that LPS induced Mincle expression by M1 macrophages via the PU.1-dependent mechanism. Most importantly, we revealed that targeting Mincle with a neutralizing antibody significantly improved psoriasis in mice. In summary, our findings demonstrated that macrophages mediate psoriasis in mice via the Mincle-dependent mechanism, targeting Mincle may represent as a novel therapy for psoriasis. A simplified pathway model of Mincle in macrophage-mediated psoriasis.
DOI: 10.1101/2023.02.22.529579PMCID: PMC10120690PMID: 37090616
We investigate the role and mechanism of imbalance via Th9 cells and Th17/Treg cells in the inflammatory and fibrotic phases of pulmonary fibrosis in mice. A total of mice were split into normal saline (control group) and inflammation and fibrosis mouse models (study group) randomly, and lung tissues and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were obtained from mice at the inflammatory and fibrotic phases on the 7th and 28th day, respectively. The degenerative changes in the mouse lung tissue were then visible using H&E staining. The expression of CCR6 and IL-9 in the lung tissues of two groups was examined through an immunohistochemistry assay. Fluorescence PCR was used to assess the expression of PU.1 mRNA in BALF, and flow cytometry was performed to identify the expression of Th17 and Treg. (1). The level of pulmonary fibrosis and lung inflammation in the research group was significantly higher than in the control group. (2). The expression of Th17, CCR6, IL-9 and PU.1 mRNA was substantially higher (P<0.05) in the research group at different time points; the expression level of Treg cells was considerably lower (P<0.05) in the research group than in the control group. (3). CCR6, IL-9 and PU.1 mRNA levels were statistically directly associated (P<0.05) with Th17 and inversely correlated 40 with Regulatory T cells (Tregs). CCR6 and Th9 cells may be involved in 45 developing Th17/Treg imbalance in the immune inflammation of pulmonary fibrosis, which promotes fibrocyte proliferation in lung tissue.
DOI: 10.1101/2023.03.29.534582PMCID: PMC10081269PMID: 37034747
The lung microenvironment plays a crucial role in maintaining lung homeostasis as well as the initiation and resolution of both acute and chronic lung injury. Acute chest syndrome (ACS) is a complication of sickle cell disease (SCD) like acute lung injury. Both the endothelial cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells are known to secrete proinflammatory cytokines elevated during ACS episodes. However, in SCD, the lung microenvironment that may favor excessive production of proinflammatory cytokines and the contribution of other lung resident cells, such as alveolar macrophages and alveolar type 2 epithelial (AT-2) cells, to ACS pathogenesis is not completely understood. Here, we sought to understand the pulmonary microenvironment and the proinflammatory profile of lung alveolar macrophages (LAMs) and AT-2 cells at steady state in Townes sickle cell (SS) mice compared to control mice (AA). In addition, we examined lung function and micromechanics molecules essential for pulmonary epithelial barrier function in these mice. Our results showed that bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid in SS mice had elevated protein levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-12 (p ⩽ 0.05) compared to AA controls. We showed for the first time, significantly increased protein levels of inflammatory mediators (Human antigen R (HuR), Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), MyD88, and PU.1) in AT-2 cells (1.4 to 2.2-fold) and LAM (17-21%) isolated from SS mice compared to AA control mice at steady state. There were also low levels of anti-inflammatory transcription factors (Nrf2 and PPARy) in SS mice compared to AA controls (p ⩽ 0.05). Finally, we found impaired lung function and a dysregulated composition of surfactant proteins (B and C). Our results demonstrate that SS mice at steady state had a compromised lung microenvironment with elevated expression of proinflammatory cytokines by AT-2 cells and LAM, as well as dysregulated expression of surfactant proteins necessary for maintaining the alveolar barrier integrity and lung function.
AIMS: The aim was to test the expression of PU.1 on different types of histiocytoses and to test the utility of PU.1 in confirming or excluding a histiocytic origin in tumour samples with suspicion of histiocytosis.METHODS AND RESULTS: We analysed 66 biopsies of nonmalignant histiocytoses represented by Langerhans-cell histiocytosis (n = 13), Erdheim-Chester disease (ECD) (n = 19), Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD) (n = 14), mixed ECD-RDD (n = 3), ALK-positive histiocytosis (n = 6), and juvenile xanthogranuloma (n = 11). All cases were positive for PU.1 in reactive and neoplastic histiocytes. In addition, 39 cases of tumours with high-grade cytological atypia were referred to our center as suspicion of malignant histiocytosis/histiocytic sarcoma and only 18 were confirmed. Indeed, more than half of these tumours (21/39) were either undifferentiated malignant tumours with a stroma rich in histiocytes, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, or high-grade dedifferentiated liposarcoma. PU.1 was useful to distinguish between the negativity of large atypical nuclei and the positivity of stromal reactive histiocytes.CONCLUSION: PU.1 is expressed by all types of histiocytosis. It distinguishes histiocytosis from histiocyte-rich tumours with an easy interpretation due to its sharp nuclear staining. Its negativity in lesional/tumour cells in histiocyte-like lesions is useful to eliminate a histiocytosis.
DOI: 10.1101/2023.03.21.533528PMCID: PMC10055223PMID: 36993393
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) is a type of cancer of the blood system that is characterized by an accumulation of immature hematopoietic cells in the bone marrow and blood. Its pathogenesis is characterized by an increase in self-renewal and block in differentiation in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Underlying its pathogenesis is the acquisition of mutations in these cells. As there are many different mutations found in AML that can occur in different combinations the disease is very heterogeneous. There has been some progress in the treatment of AML through the introduction of targeted therapies and a broader application of the stem cell transplantation in its treatment. However, many mutations found in AML are still lacking defined interventions. These are in particular mutations and dysregulation in important myeloid transcription factors and epigenetic regulators that also play a crucial role in normal hematopoietic differentiation. While a direct targeting of the partial loss-of-function or change in function observed in these factors is very difficult to imagine, recent data suggests that the inhibition of LSD1, an important epigenetic regulator, can modulate interactions in the network of myeloid transcription factors and restore differentiation in AML. Interestingly, the impact of LSD1 inhibition in this regard is quite different between normal and malignant hematopoiesis. The effect of LSD1 inhibition involves transcription factors that directly interact with LSD1 such as GFI1 and GFI1B, but also transcription factors that bind to enhancers that are modulated by LSD1 such as PU.1 and C/EBPα as well as transcription factors that are regulated downstream of LSD1 such as IRF8. In this review, we are summarizing the current literature on the impact of LSD1 modulation in normal and malignant hematopoietic cells and the current knowledge how the involved transcription factor networks are altered. We are also exploring how these modulation of transcription factors play into the rational selection of combination partners with LSD1 inhibitors, which is an intense area of clinical investigation.
The ongoing debate on whether lymphocytic thrombophilic arteritis (LTA) is a separate disease or a type of polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) has yet to be settled. In this study, we analyzed the nature of infiltrating cells in LTA to resolve this controversy. Skin biopsies from five female patients (mean age 29.4 years, age range 16-45 years) diagnosed with LTA were immunostained for CD3, CD20, CD68, lysozyme, myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen, myeloperoxidase, and PU.1. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the majority of mononuclear cells in all five cases were not lymphocytes but myelomonocytic cells. Given that the infiltrating cells are of the myelomonocyte lineage including immature myeloid cells, PAN was deemed the more appropriate diagnosis for the five cases rather than LTA. Whether PAN with immature myeloid cells (histiocytoid PAN) is the same disease as conventional PAN with mature neutrophils requires further investigation.
Blood donor age has become a major concern due to the age-associated variations in the content and concentration of circulating extracellular nano-sized vesicles (EVs), including exosomes. These EVs mirror the state of their parental cells and transfer it to the recipient cells via biological messengers such as microRNAs (miRNAs, miRs). Since the behavior of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is potentially affected by the miRs of plasma-derived EVs, a better understanding of the content of EVs is important for the safety and efficacy perspectives in blood transfusion medicine. Herein, we investigated whether the plasma-derived EVs of young (18-25 years) and elderly human donors (45-60 years) can deliver "youth" or "aging" signals into human umbilical cord blood (hUCB)-derived HSCs in vitro. The results showed that EVs altered the growth functionality and differentiation of HSCs depending on the age of the donor from which they are derived. EVs of young donors could ameliorate the proliferation and self-renewal potential of HSCs whereas those of aged donors induced senescence-associated differentiation in the target cells, particularly toward the myeloid lineage. These findings were confirmed by flow cytometric analysis of surface markers and microarray profiling of genes related to stemness (e.g., SOX-1, Nanog) and differentiation (e.g., PU-1). The results displayed an up-regulation of miR-29 and miR-96 and a down-regulation of miR-146 in EVs derived from elderly donors. The higher expression of miR-29 and miR-96 contributed to the diminished expression of CDK-6 and CDKN1A (p21), promoting senescence fate via cell growth suppression, while the lower expression of miR-146 positively regulates TRAF-6 expression to accelerate biological aging. Our findings reveal that plasma-derived EVs from young donors can reverse the aging-associated changes in HSCs, while vice versa, the EVs from elderly donors rather promote the senescence process.
Osteoporosis is a common skeletal disease; however, effective pharmacological treatments still need to be discovered. This study aimed to identify new drug candidates for the treatment of osteoporosis. Here, we investigated the effect of EPZ compounds, protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) inhibitors, on RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation via molecular mechanisms by in vitro experiments. EPZ015866 attenuated RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation, and its inhibitory effect was more significant than EPZ015666. EPZ015866 suppressed the F-actin ring formation and bone resorption during osteoclastogenesis. In addition, EPZ015866 significantly decreased the protein expression of Cathepsin K, NFATc1, and PU.1 compared with the EPZ015666 group. Both EPZ compounds inhibited the nuclear translocation of NF-κB by inhibiting the dimethylation of the p65 subunit, which eventually prevented osteoclast differentiation and bone resorption. Hence, EPZ015866 may be a potential drug candidate for the treatment of osteoporosis.
Extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) is one of the leading causes of bloodstream infections in a broad spectrum of birds and mammals, thus poses a great threat to public health, while its underlying mechanism causing sepsis is not fully understood. Here we reported a high virulent ExPEC strain PU-1, which has a robust ability to colonize within host bloodstream, while induced a low level of leukocytic activation. Two serine protease autotransporters of Enterobacteriaceae (SPATEs), VatPU-1 and TshPU-1, were found to play critical roles for the urgent blood infection of strain PU-1. Although the Vat and Tsh homologues have been identified as virulence factors of ExPEC, their contributions to bloodstream infection are still unclear. In this study, VatPU-1 and TshPU-1 were verified to interact with the hemoglobin (a well-known mucin-like glycoprotein in red blood cell), degrade the mucins of host respiratory tract, and cleave the CD43 (a major cell surface component sharing similar O-glycosylated modifications with other glycoprotein expressed on leukocytes), suggesting that these two SPATEs have the common activity to cleave a broad array of mucin-like O-glycoproteins. These cleavages significantly impaired the chemotaxis and transmigration of leukocytes, and then inhibited the activation of diverse immune responses coordinately, especially downregulated the leukocytic and inflammatory activation during bloodstream infection, thus might mediate the evasion of ExPEC from immune clearance of blood leukocytes. Taken together, these two SPATEs play critical roles to cause a heavy bacterial load within bloodstream via immunomodulation of leukocytes, which provides a more comprehensive understanding how ExPEC colonize within host bloodstream and cause severe sepsis.
We recently demonstrated that prothrombin kringle-2 (pKr-2) derived from blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption could induce hippocampal neurodegeneration and object recognition impairment through neurotoxic inflammatory responses in the five familial Alzheimer's disease mutation (5XFAD) mice. In the present study, we aimed to determine whether pKr-2 induces microglial activation by stimulating toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) upregulation and examine whether this response contributes to pKr-2-induced neuroinflammatory damage in the hippocampi of mice models. We observed that inflammatory responses induced by pKr-2 administration in the hippocampi of wild-type mice were significantly abrogated in TLR4-deficient mice (TLR4-/-), and caffeine supply or rivaroxaban treatment that inhibits the overexpression of hippocampal pKr-2 reduced TLR4 upregulation in 5XFAD mice, resulting in the inhibition of neuroinflammatory responses. Similar to the expression patterns of pKr-2, TLR4, and the TLR4 transcription factors, PU.1 and p-c-Jun, seen in the postmortem hippocampal tissues of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, our results additionally showed the influence of transcriptional regulation on TLR4 expression following pKr-2 expression in triggering the production of neurotoxic inflammatory mediators. Therefore, we conclude that pKr-2 may play a role in initiating upregulation of microglial TLR4, consequently inducing hippocampal neurodegeneration. Furthermore, the control of pKr-2-induced microglial TLR4 could be a useful therapeutic strategy against hippocampal neurodegeneration in AD.
DOI: 10.1101/2023.02.10.23285762PMCID: PMC9934807PMID: 36798219
Iodine excess may cause and aggravate autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT), which is regarded as a typical kind of autoimmune disease mainly mediated by CD4+ T cells. Thus far, it is unclear whether T helper (Th) 9 cells, a novel subpopulation of CD4+ T cells, play a potential role in AIT. Therefore, in the present study, changes in Th9 cells were detected in murine models of AIT induced by excess iodine intake to explore the possible immune mechanism. Female C57BL/6 mice were divided into 7 groups (n = 8) and were supplied with water containing 0.005% sodium iodide for 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks. With the extension of the high-iodine intake duration, the incidence of thyroiditis and the spleen index were significantly increased, and serum thyroglobulin antibody (TgAb) titers and interleukin 9 (IL-9, major cytokine from Th9 cells) concentrations were also increased. Additionally, it was revealed that the percentages of Th9 cells in spleen mononuclear cells (SMCs) and thyroid tissues were both markedly elevated and accompanied by increased mRNA and protein expression of IL-9 and key transcription factors of Th9 cells (PU.1 and IRF-4). Significantly, dynamic changes in Th9 cells were found, with a peak at 8 weeks after high iodine intake, the time point when thyroiditis was the most serious. Importantly, Th9 cells were detected in the areas of infiltrating lymphocytes in thyroid sections. In conclusion, the continuously increasing proportions of Th9 cells may play an important role in the occurrence and development of AIT induced by high iodine intake.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is characterized by vasoregression and glial activation. miRNA-124 (miR-124) reduces retinal microglial activation and alleviates vasoregression in a neurodegenerative rat model. Our aim was to determine whether miR-124 affects vascular and neural damage in the early diabetic retina. Diabetes was induced in 8-week-old Wistar rats by streptozotocin (STZ) injection. At 16 and 20 weeks, the diabetic rats were intravitreally injected with miR-124 mimic, and retinae were analyzed at 24 weeks. Microvascular damage was identified by evaluating pericyte loss and acellular capillary (AC) formation. Müller glial activation was assessed by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunofluorescence staining. Microglial activation was determined by immunofluorescent staining of ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 (Iba1) in whole mount retinae. The neuroretinal function was assessed by electroretinography. The expression of inflammation-associated genes was evaluated by qRT-PCR. A wound healing assay was performed to quantitate the mobility of microglial cells. The results showed that miR-124 treatment alleviated diabetic vasoregression by reducing AC formation and pericyte loss. miR-124 blunted Müller glial- and microglial activation in diabetic retinae and ameliorated neuroretinal function. The retinal expression of inflammatory factors including Tnf-α, Il-1β, Cd74, Ccl2, Ccl3, Vcam1, Tgf-β1, Arg1, and Il-10 was reduced by miR-124 administration. The elevated mobility of microglia upon high glucose exposure was normalized by miR-124. The expression of the transcription factor PU.1 and lipid raft protein Flot1 was downregulated by miR-124. In rat DR, miR-124 prevents vasoregression and glial activation, improves neuroretinal function, and modulates microglial activation and inflammatory responses.
This paper describes the synthesis of a polymer-prodrug conjugate, its aqueous self-assembly, noncovalent encapsulation of a second drug, and stimuli-responsive intracellular dual drug delivery. Condensation polymerization between a functionalized diol and a commercially available diisocyanate in the presence of poly(ethylene glycol) hydroxide (PEG-OH) as the chain stopper produces an ABA-type amphiphilic block copolymer (PU-1) in one pot, with the middle hydrophobic block being a polyurethane containing a pendant tert-butyloxycarbonyl (Boc)-protected amine in every repeating unit. Deprotection of the Boc group, followed by covalent attachment of the Pt(IV) prodrug using the pendant amine groups, produces the polymer-prodrug conjugate PU-Pt-1, which aggregates to nanocapsule-like structures in water with a hydrophilic interior. In the presence of sodium ascorbate, the Pt(IV) prodrug can be detached from the polymer backbone, producing the active Pt(II) drug. Cell culture studies show appreciable cell viability by the parent polymer. However, the polymer-prodrug conjugate nanocapsules exhibit cellular uptake and intracellular release of the active drug under a reducing environment. The capsule-like aggregates of the polymer-prodrug conjugate were used for noncovalent encapsulation of a second drug, doxorubicin (Dox), and Dox-loaded PU-Pt-1 aggregate showed a significantly superior cell killing efficiency compared to either of the individual drugs, highlighting the promising application of such a dual-drug-delivery approach.
Lung transcriptomics studies in asthma have provided valuable information in the whole lung context, however, deciphering the individual contributions of the airway and parenchyma in disease pathogenesis may expedite the development of novel targeted treatment strategies. In this study, we performed transcriptomics on the airway and parenchyma using a house dust mite (HDM)-induced model of experimental asthma that replicates key features of the human disease. HDM exposure increased the expression of 3,255 genes, of which 212 were uniquely increased in the airways, 856 uniquely increased in the parenchyma, and 2187 commonly increased in both compartments. Further interrogation of these genes using a combination of network and transcription factor enrichment analyses identified several transcription factors that regulate airway and/or parenchymal gene expression, including transcription factor EC (TFEC), transcription factor PU.1 (SPI1), H2.0-like homeobox (HLX), metal response element binding transcription factor-1 (MTF1) and E74-like factor 4 (ets domain transcription factor, ELF4) involved in controlling innate immune responses. We next assessed the effects of inhibiting lung SPI1 responses using commercially available DB1976 and DB2313 on key disease outcomes. We found that both compounds had no protective effects on airway inflammation, however DB2313 (8 mg/kg) decreased mucus secreting cell number, and both DB2313 (1 mg/kg) and DB1976 (2.5 mg/kg and 1 mg/kg) reduced small airway collagen deposition. Significantly, both compounds decreased airway hyperresponsiveness. This study demonstrates that SPI1 is important in HDM-induced experimental asthma and that its pharmacological inhibition reduces HDM-induced airway collagen deposition and hyperresponsiveness.
A comprehensive analysis of the cell phenotype of the inflammatory infiltrate of the tumor stroma represents a promising area of molecular oncology. The study of not only soluble forms of various immunoregulatory molecules, but also their membrane-bound forms is also considered highly relevant. We performed a comprehensive analysis of tissue and circulating forms of the PD-1 and PD-L1 proteins, as well as macrophage and B-cell markers in the tumor stroma of gastric cancer, to assess their clinical and prognostic significance. The tumor and blood plasma samples from 63 gastric cancer patients were studied using ELISA and immunohistochemistry. Malignant gastric tumors were shown to be strongly infiltrated by B-cells, and their number was comparable to that of macrophages. For PU.1 expression, an association with tumor size was observed; i.e., larger tumors were characterized by fewer PU.1+ infiltrating cells (p = 0.005). No clinical significance was found for CD20 and CD163, but their numbers were higher at earlier stages of the disease and in the absence of metastases. It was also demonstrated that the PD-L1 content in tumor cells was not associated with the clinical and morphological characteristics of GC. At the same time, PD-L1 expression in tumor stromal cells was associated with the presence of distant metastases. The analysis of the prognostic significance of all the markers studied demonstrated that CD163 was statistically significantly associated with a poor prognosis for the disease (p = 0.019). In addition, PD-L1 expression in tumor cells tended to indicate a favorable prognosis (p = 0.122). The results obtained in this work indicate that the study of soluble and tissue markers of tumor stroma is promising in prognosticating the course of GC. The search for combinations of markers seems to be highly promising, with their comprehensive analysis capable of helping personalize advanced antitumor therapy.
In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes sustain leukemic identity by driving high levels of MYC. Previous studies have implicated the hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1 (SPI1) as an important target of SWI/SNF inhibition, but PU.1 is widely regarded to have pioneer-like activity. As a result, many questions have remained regarding the interplay between PU.1 and SWI/SNF in AML as well as normal hematopoiesis. Here we found that PU.1 binds to most of its targets in a SWI/SNF-independent manner and recruits SWI/SNF to promote accessibility for other AML core regulatory factors, including RUNX1, LMO2, and MEIS1. SWI/SNF inhibition in AML cells reduced DNA accessibility and binding of these factors at PU.1 sites and redistributed PU.1 to promoters. Analysis of nontumor hematopoietic cells revealed that similar effects also impair PU.1-dependent B-cell and monocyte populations. Nevertheless, SWI/SNF inhibition induced profound therapeutic response in an immunocompetent AML mouse model as well as in primary human AML samples. In vivo, SWI/SNF inhibition promoted leukemic differentiation and reduced the leukemic stem cell burden in bone marrow but also induced leukopenia. These results reveal a variable therapeutic window for SWI/SNF blockade in AML and highlight important off-tumor effects of such therapies in immunocompetent settings.SIGNIFICANCE: Disruption of PU.1-directed enhancer programs upon SWI/SNF inhibition causes differentiation of AML cells and induces leukopenia of PU.1-dependent B cells and monocytes, revealing the on- and off-tumor effects of SWI/SNF blockade.
BACKGROUND: Aspergillosis is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised populations. PU.1 is critical for innate immunity against Aspergillus fumigatus (AF) in macrophages. However, the molecular mechanism underlying PU.1 mediating immunity against AF infection in human alveolar macrophages (AMs) is still unclear.METHODS: In this study, we detected the expressions of PU.1, CD23, p-ERK, CCL20 and IL-8 and key inflammatory markers IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α and IL-12 in human THP-1-derived macrophages (HTMs) or PU.1/CD23-overexpressed immunodeficient mice with AF infection. Moreover, we examined these expressions in PU.1-overexpressed/interfered HTMs. Additionally, we detected the phagocytosis of macrophages against AF infection with altered PU.1 expression. Dual luciferase, ChIP and EMSAs were performed to detect the interaction of PU.1 and CD23. And we invested the histological changes in mouse lung tissues transfected with PU.1/CD23-expressing adenoviruses in AF infection.RESULTS: The results showed that the expressions of PU.1, CD23, p-ERK, CCL20, IL-8, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α and IL-12 increased significantly with AF infection, and PU.1 regulated the later 8 gene expressions in HTMs. Moreover, CD23 was directly activated by PU.1, and overexpression of CD23 in PU.1-interfered HTMs upregulated IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α and IL-12 levels which were downregulated by PU.1 interference. PU.1 overexpression strengthened the phagocytosis of the HTMs against AF. And injection of PU.1/CD23-expressing adenoviruses attenuated pathological defects in immunodeficient mouse lung tissues with AF infection. Adenovirus (Ad)-PU.1 increased the CD23, p-ERK, CCL20, IL-8 levels.CONCLUSIONS: Our study concluded that PU.1-CD23 signaling mediates innate immunity against AF in lungs through regulating inflammatory response. Therefore, PU.1-CD23 may be a new anti-aspergillosis therapeutic for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis with the deepening of gene therapy and its wide application in the clinic.
PU.1 is a key transcription factor that modulates hematopoietic cell differentiation and is involved in various physiological and pathological processes. PU.1 has been described to have multiple roles in a diverse range of cancers, but its contribution in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has not been clearly elucidated. Fifty pairs of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) tissues and paraneoplastic tissues were collected. RT-qPCR assay was used to test PU.1 expression. Expression of PU.1 in LUAD cell lines and control cell lines was detected by RT-qPCR, and the role of PU.1 in LUAD was investigated by in vitro experiment. Levels of the major proteins in the apoptotic pathway were also detected by Western blot. The expression of PU.1 was remarkably downregulated in LUAD. Overexpression of PU.1 impaired the viability of LUAD cells as well as their metastatic function. In addition, PU.1 promoted apoptosis of LUAD cells by decreasing Bcl2 and increasing Bax/Bak1 expression. PU.1 plays an inhibitory role in LUAD, mainly promoting the apoptosis of LUAD cells.
DOI: 10.3724/abbs.2022202PMCID: PMC10157628PMID: 36647727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
CD4+ TH cells develop into subsets that are specialized in the secretion of particular cytokines to mediate restricted types of inflammation and immune responses. Among the subsets that promote development of allergic inflammatory responses, IL-9-producing TH9 cells are regulated by a number of transcription factors. We have previously shown that the E26 transformation-specific (Ets) family members PU.1 and Ets translocation variant 5 (ETV5) function in parallel to regulate IL-9. In this study we identified a third member of the Ets family of transcription factors, Ets-related gene (ERG), that mediates IL-9 production in TH9 cells in the absence of PU.1 and ETV5. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that ERG interaction at the Il9 promoter region is restricted to the TH9 lineage and is sustained during murine TH9 polarization. Knockdown or knockout of ERG during murine or human TH9 polarization in vitro led to a decrease in IL-9 production in TH9 cells. Deletion of ERG in vivo had modest effects on IL-9 production in vitro or in vivo. However, in the absence of PU.1 and ETV5, ERG was required for residual IL-9 production in vitro and for IL-9 production by lung-derived CD4 T cells in a mouse model of chronic allergic airway disease. Thus, ERG contributes to IL-9 regulation in TH9 cells.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is only effective in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), but not in other subtype of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Salinomycin targets tumor cells rather than non-tumorigenic cells, and WNT/β-catenin pathway inhibition is one of the mechanisms of its anti-tumor activity. There is a crosstalk between RA and WNT/β-catenin pathway. Here, we investigate the effect of the combination of salinomycin and ATRA (S+RA) in non-APL AML cells.METHODS: Apoptosis was evaluated by cell viability and Annexin-V assay. Cell differentiation was analyzed by CD11c expression and morphology. To explore the underlying mechanisms, Western blot analysis and mitochondrial transmembrane potentials (ΔΨm) were used.RESULTS & DISCUSSION: S+RA induced differentiation and apoptosis in AML cell lines and AML primary cells. S+RA inhibited the β-catenin signal pathway as determined by the decreased protein levels of β-catenin, the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related proteins 6 (LRP6), and its downstream proteins such as survivin, c-Myc, caspase-3/7, cdc25A and cyclinD1 and reduced phosphorylation level of GSK3β S9. S+RA also increased the protein levels of CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins (C/EBPs) and PU.1 and collapsed Δψm. The above molecular and cellular changes induced by S+RA were inhibited by β-catenin specific activator and promoted by β-catenin specific inhibitor.CONCLUSION: S+RA induced differentiation by β-catenin-inhibition-mediated up-regulation of C/EBPs and PU.1 and suppression of c-Myc. S+RA triggered apoptosis through β-catenin-inhibition-regulated ΔΨm collapse and caspase-3/7 activation. Taken together, our findings may provide novel therapeutic strategies for AML patients by targeting the WNT/β-catenin pathway.
A facile synthesis of isocyanate free polyurethanes (PU) was executed by the reaction of biodegradable cyclic carbonate and sustainable diamines generated via chemical modification. The biodegradable polyol polycaprolactone triol (PCL) was transformed into a new glycerol carbonate derivative, PCL-(COOGC)3, and subjected to polyaddition with the diamines linalool diamine (LLDA), isosorbide diamine (ISODA) and hexamethylene diamine (HDA). Polyaddition of PCL-(COOGC)3 with the above diamine precursors was conducted via a one-pot reaction under catalyst-free reaction conditions prior to film casting. The above precursors were characterized by Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) and 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopies, high-resolution mass spectrometry and electrospray ionization matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, whereas the PU films were studied by attenuated total reflectance-FTIR spectroscopy, solid state 13C NMR, scanning electron microscopy, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, X-ray diffractometry, differential scanning calorimetry and thermogravimetric analysis. High onset degradation temperature (T d) values were observed for the PU films PU-1 (345.8 °C), PU-2 (309.6 °C) and PU-3 (344.6 °C), and further studies, including cross-link density, water contact angle, swelling behaviour and biodegradation (phosphate-buffered saline medium, pH = 7.2 at 45 °C) measurements, were conducted.
E26 transformation specific or E twenty-six (ETS) protein family consists of 28 transcription factors, five of which, named ETS1/2, PU.1, ERG and EHF, are known to involve in the development of liver fibrosis, and are expected to become diagnostic markers or therapeutic targets of liver fibrosis. In recent years, some small molecule inhibitors of ETS protein family have been discovered, which might open up a new path for the liver fibrosis therapy targeting ETS. This article reviews the research progress of ETS family members in the development liver fibrosis as well as their prospect of clinical application.
To determine how different pioneer transcription factors form a targeted, accessible nucleosome within compacted chromatin and collaborate with an ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler, we generated nucleosome arrays in vitro with a central nucleosome containing binding sites for the hematopoietic E-Twenty Six (ETS) factor PU.1 and Basic Leucine Zipper (bZIP) factors C/EBPα and C/EBPβ. Our long-read sequencing reveals that each factor can expose a targeted nucleosome on linker histone-compacted arrays, but with different nuclease sensitivity patterns. The DNA binding domain of PU.1 binds mononucleosomes, but requires an additional intrinsically disordered domain to bind and open compacted chromatin. The canonical mammalian SWI/SNF (cBAF) remodeler was unable to act upon two forms of locally open chromatin unless cBAF was enabled by a separate transactivation domain of PU.1. cBAF potentiates the PU.1 DNA binding domain to weakly open chromatin in the absence of the PU.1 disordered domain. Our findings reveal a hierarchy by which chromatin is opened and show that pioneer factors can provide specificity for action by nucleosome remodelers.
This work investigates the uptake and root-shoot transport of plutonium (Pu) and iron (Fe) in corn ( Zea mays ) to gain insight into the Pu uptake pathway. Plutonium has no known biological function in plants yet may feasibly enter plants through the uptake pathway used by Fe (an essential nutrient), as these two elements have similar chemical properties. A series of experiments was conducted in which two hydroponically grown corn strains (one normal and one deficient in the transporter protein for Fe) were exposed to varying concentrations of complexed Pu and Fe. Results suggest that while Fe did inhibit Pu uptake to a certain extent, Pu was able to use alternative uptake pathways. In a 10 ppb Pu:1 ppb Fe hydroponic solution, all shoots had detectable shoot Pu concentrations compared to only 22% of plants when the Fe concentration was raised to 10 ppb. While root Pu accumulation was reduced for the corn strain deficient in the Fe transporter protein at lower Pu media concentrations, there were no differences at higher Pu concentrations, signifying the existence of substitute transport routes. A comparison of citrate and deferoxamine B (DFOB) ligand influence found that Pu complexed with DFOB remained in the roots of the plant, while movement of Pu into the shoots of the plant was more prevalent with the Pu-citrate complex. This study advances understanding of the behavior and mobility of Pu in the terrestrial environment and specifically the interactions between Pu and an essential nutrient in a common crop species.
The transcription factor (TF), nuclear factor I-X (NFIX), is a positive regulator of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) transplantation. Nfix-deficient HSPC exhibit a severe loss of repopulating activity, increased apoptosis and a loss of colony forming potential. However, the underlying mechanism remains elusive. Here, we performed cellular indexing of transcriptomes and epitopes by high-throughput sequencing (CITE-seq) on Nfix-deficient HSPC and observed loss of long-term hematopoietic stem cells (LT-HSC) and an accumulation of megakaryocyte and myelo-erythroid progenitors. The genome-wide binding profile of NFIX in primitive murine hematopoietic cells revealed its co-localization with other hematopoietic TFs such as PU.1. We confirmed the physical interaction between NFIX and PU.1 and demonstrated that the two TFs co-occupy super-enhancers and regulate genes implicated in cellular respiration and hematopoietic differentiation. Additionally, we provide evidence suggesting the absence of NFIX negatively affects PU.1 binding at some genomic loci. Our data support a model in which NFIX collaborates with PU.1 at super-enhancers to promote the differentiation and homeostatic balance of hematopoietic progenitors.
Perivascular macrophages (pvMs) are associated with cerebral vasculature and mediate brain drainage and immune regulation. Here, using reporter mouse models, whole brain and section immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and single cell RNA sequencing, besides the Lyve1+F4/80+CD206+CX3CR1+ pvMs, we identify a CX3CR1- pvM population that shares phagocytic functions and location. Furthermore, the brain parenchyma vasculature mostly hosts Lyve1+MHCII- pvMs with low to intermediate CD45 expression. Using the double Cx3cr1GFP x Cx3cr1-Cre;RosatdT reporter mice for finer mapping of the lineages, we establish that CD45lowCX3CR1- pvMs are derived from CX3CR1+ precursors and require PU.1 during their ontogeny. In parallel, results from the Cxcr4-CreErt2;Rosa26tdT lineage tracing model support a bone marrow-independent replenishment of all Lyve1+ pvMs in the adult mouse brain. Lastly, flow cytometry and 3D immunofluorescence analysis uncover increased percentage of pvMs following photothrombotic induced stroke. Our results thus show that the parenchymal pvM population is more heterogenous than previously described, and includes a CD45low and CX3CR1- pvM population.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to explore the role of lncRNA TMPO-AS1 in ischemic stroke and corresponding mechanism.METHODS: Adult male C57BL/6 J mice were subjected to a middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model of ischemic stroke, then TMPO-AS1 shRNA lentivirus   were injected into ipsilateral striatum of mice. The neurological score and cerebral infarction volume were evaluatedHypoxia/glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced BV2 cells were transfected with TMPO-AS1 shRNA (sh-TMPO-AS1) or together with pcDNA-INPP5D, as well as transfected with sh-PU.1 or together with pcDNA-INPP5D, then TMPO-AS1 level, the expression of PU.1 and INPP5D proteins, the secretion of inflammatory factors (TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-1β), the levels of iNOS, CD68,Arg1 and CD206 mRNA were detected. RIP and PNA-pull down assays were used to detect the binding of TMPO-AS1 and PU.1, luciferase reporter gene and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays were used to detect the binding activity of PU.1 and INPP5D.RESULTS: TMPO-AS1 level was increased in peripheral blood of ischemic stroke patients , brain tissues of MCAO/R model mice and OGD/R-induced BV2 cells. TMPO-AS1 interference inhibited the inflammation of OGD/R-induced BV2 cells. TMPO-AS1 also enhanced the nuclear accumulation of PU.1 by binding to the transcription factor PU.1, and promoted the transcriptional activation of INPP5D. The anti-inflammatory effects of TMPO-AS1 interference were reversed by INPP5D overexpression. In addition, TMPO-AS1 interference improved the infarct volume of MCAO mice, and improved sensorimotor and cognitive functions.CONCLUSION: INPP5D underexpression mediated by TMPO-AS1-PU.1 complex alleviated neuroinflammation after ischemic stroke.
Author information:(1)Department of General Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang 453100, China.
Mutations in Zinc finger 687 (ZNF687) were associated with Paget's disease of bone (PDB), a disease characterized by increased bone resorption and excessive bone formation. It was suggested that ZNF687 plays a role in bone differentiation and development. However, the mechanisms involved in ZNF687 regulation remain unknown. This study aimed to obtain novel knowledge regarding ZNF687 transcriptional and epigenetic regulation. Through in silico analysis, we hypothesized three ZNF687 promoter regions located upstream exon 1 A, 1B, and 1 C and denominated promoter regions 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Their functionality was confirmed by luciferase activity assays and positive/negative regulatory regions were identified using promoter deletions constructs. In silico analysis revealed a high density of CpG islands in these promoter regions and in vitro methylation suppressed promoters' activity. Using bioinformatic approaches, bone-associated transcription factor binding sites containing CpG dinucleotides were identified, including those for NFκB, PU.1, DLX5, and SOX9. By co-transfection in HEK293 and hFOB cells, we found that DLX5 specifically activated ZNF687 promoter region 1, and its methylation impaired DLX5-driven promoter stimulation. NFκB repressed and activated promoter regions 1 and 2, respectively, and these activities were affected by methylation. PU.1 induced ZNF687 promoter region 1 which was affected by methylation. SOX9 differentially regulated ZNF687 promoters in HEK293 and hFOB cells that were impaired after methylation. In conclusion, this study provides novel insights into ZNF687 regulation by demonstrating that NFκB, PU.1, DLX5, and SOX9 are regulators of ZNF687 promoters, and DNA methylation influences their activity. The contribution of the dysregulation of these mechanisms in PDB should be further elucidated.
The high-affinity IgE receptor, FcεRI, plays a key role in the antigen-induced mast cell activation. Regulations for FcεRI are not yet well understood. TAFA4 is a molecule derived from neuron tissues, and has immune regulation functions. This study aims to clarify the role of TAFA4 in the regulation of FcεRI expression in mast cells. Nasal secretions were collected from patients with allergic rhinitis (AR) and healthy control (HC) subjects. TAFA4 levels of nasal secretions were evaluated by ELISA. A mouse model AR was developed using ovalbumin as the specific antigen. Negative correlation between TAFA4 and tryptase levels in nasal secretions was observed. TAFA4 could suppress the antigen-related mast cell activation. TAFA4 modulated the transcription of Fcer1g (FcεRI γ gene) in mast cells. Signals from the TAFA4-PTEN-PU.1 axis restricted FcεRI expression in mast cells. Administration of TAFA4 attenuated experimental AR. TAFA4 suppressed the expression of FcεRI in mast cells of airway tissues. TAFA4 can down regulate the expression of FcεRI in mast cells to suppress experimental AR. The data suggest that TAFA4 has translation potential to be developed as an anti-allergy therapy.
Microglia, brain-resident macrophages, play key roles during prenatal development in defining neural circuitry function, including ensuring proper synaptic wiring and maintaining homeostasis. Mammalian breathing rhythmogenesis arises from interacting brainstem neural networks that are assembled during embryonic development, but the specific role of microglia in this process remains unknown. Here, we investigated the anatomical and functional consequences of respiratory circuit formation in the absence of microglia. We first established the normal distribution of microglia within the wild-type (WT, Spi1+/+ (Pu.1 WT)) mouse (Mus musculus) brainstem at embryonic ages when the respiratory networks are known to emerge (embryonic day (E) 14.5 for the parafacial respiratory group (epF) and E16.5 for the preBötzinger complex (preBötC)). In transgenic mice depleted of microglia (Spi1-/- (Pu.1 KO) mutant), we performed anatomical staining, calcium imaging, and electrophysiological recordings of neuronal activities in vitro to assess the status of these circuits at their respective times of functional emergence. Spontaneous respiratory-related activity recorded from reduced in vitro preparations showed an abnormally slow rhythm frequency expressed by the epF at E14.5, the preBötC at E16.5, and in the phrenic motor nerves from E16.5 onwards. These deficits were associated with a reduced number of active epF neurons, defects in commissural projections that couple the bilateral preBötC half-centers, and an accompanying decrease in their functional coordination. These abnormalities probably contribute to eventual neonatal death, since plethysmography revealed that E18.5 Spi1-/- embryos are unable to sustain breathing activity ex utero. Our results thus point to a crucial contribution of microglia in the proper establishment of the central respiratory command during embryonic development.
Consecutive mRNA vaccinations against SARS-CoV-2 reinforced both innate and adaptive immune responses. However, it remains unclear whether the enhanced innate immune responses are mediated by epigenetic regulation and, if so, whether these effects persist. Using mass cytometry, RNA-Seq, and ATAC-Seq, we show that BNT162b2 mRNA vaccination upregulated antiviral and IFN-stimulated gene expression in monocytes with greater effects after the second vaccination than those after the first vaccination. Transcription factor-binding motif analysis also revealed enriched IFN regulatory factors and PU.1 motifs in accessible chromatin regions. Importantly, although consecutive BNT162b2 mRNA vaccinations boosted innate immune responses and caused epigenetic changes in isolated monocytes, we show that these effects occurred only transiently and disappeared 4 weeks after the second vaccination. Furthermore, single-cell RNA-Seq analysis revealed that a similar gene signature was impaired in the monocytes of unvaccinated patients with COVID-19 with acute respiratory distress syndrome. These results reinforce the importance of the innate immune response in the determination of COVID-19 severity but indicate that, unlike adaptive immunity, innate immunity is not unexpectedly sustained even after consecutive vaccination. This study, which focuses on innate immune memory, may provide novel insights into the vaccine development against infectious diseases.
Microglia, the resident immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS), are derived from yolk-sac macrophages that populate the developing CNS during early embryonic development. Once established, the microglia population is self-maintained throughout life by local proliferation. As a scalable source of microglia-like cells (MGLs), we here present a forward programming protocol for their generation from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs). The transient overexpression of PU.1 and C/EBPβ in hPSCs led to a homogenous population of mature microglia within 16 d. MGLs met microglia characteristics on a morphological, transcriptional, and functional level. MGLs facilitated the investigation of a human tauopathy model in cortical neuron-microglia cocultures, revealing a secondary dystrophic microglia phenotype. Single-cell RNA sequencing of microglia integrated into hPSC-derived cortical brain organoids demonstrated a shift of microglia signatures toward a more-developmental in vivo-like phenotype, inducing intercellular interactions promoting neurogenesis and arborization. Taken together, our microglia forward programming platform represents a tool for both reductionist studies in monocultures and complex coculture systems, including 3D brain organoids for the study of cellular interactions in healthy or diseased environments.
PU.1, a transcription factor member of the E26 transformation-specific family, affects the function of a variety of immune cells in several physiological and pathological conditions. Previous studies studying the role of PU.1 in pathological conditions have mainly focused on immune system-related cancers, and a series of articles have confirmed that PU.1 mutation can induce a variety of immune cell-related malignancies. The underlying mechanism has also been extensively validated. However, the role of PU.1 in other major immune system-related diseases, namely, systemic autoimmune diseases, is still unclear. It was only in recent years that researchers began to gradually realize that PU.1 also played an important role in a variety of autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). This review article summarizes the findings of recent studies that investigated the role of PU.1 in various autoimmune diseases and the related underlying mechanisms. Furthermore, it presents new ideas and provides insight into the role of PU.1 as a potential treatment target for autoimmune diseases and highlights existing research problems and future research directions in related fields.
OBJECTIVES: Rosai-Dorfman disease (RDD) is a rare disorder characterized by the accumulation of large S100 protein-positive histiocytes that typically exhibit emperipolesis. The recently reported expression of Oct-2 in RDD histiocytes led us to explore whether PU.1, a transcription factor that is required for monocyte and B-cell development, could similarly function as a diagnostic marker in RDD.METHODS: We evaluated the expression of PU.1 and Oct-2 using immunohistochemistry in 19 patients diagnosed with RDD involving nodal, extranodal, and cutaneous sites.RESULTS: Both PU.1 and Oct-2 were positive in all cases studied, with a strong intensity of staining in 84% of cases in which more than 50% of the lesional cells were positive. In three patients, both markers showed weak to moderate intensity of staining. Two patients had concomitant RDD and Langerhans cell histiocytosis in which PU.1 stained both types of histiocytes while Oct-2 stained only the RDD component.CONCLUSIONS: PU.1 emerged as a robust marker with crisp nuclear staining in RDD histiocytes as well as in engulfed inflammatory cells. Strong coexpression of PU.1 and Oct-2 is a useful diagnostic marker in differentiating histiocytic/dendritic cell proliferations.
Hydroxyurea (HU) (hydroxycarbamide) is used as a therapeutic option in β-thalassaemia to increase fetal haemoglobin, which results in a reduced requirement for blood transfusion. However, a potential serious adverse effect of HU is neutropenia. Abnormal neutrophil maturation and function in β-thalassaemia/HbE patients are well documented. This raises questions about the effect of the drug with regards to the immune response these patients. This study investigated the effects of HU treatment on both innate and adaptive immunity in a cross-sectional study of 28 β-thalassaemia/HbE patients who had received HU treatment (BE+HU) as compared with 22 β-thalassaemia/HbE patients who had not received HU (BE-HU) and 26 normal subjects. The expression of PU.1 and C/EBPβ, transcription factors, which are associated with neutrophil maturation, was significantly reduced in BE+HU patients as compared with BE-HU patients and normal subjects. Interestingly, C3bR expression on neutrophils and their oxidative burst activity in BE+HU were restored to close to normal levels when compared with BE-HU. There was no observed effect of HU on monocytes, myeloid derived suppressor cells (both granulocytic and monocytic subsets), CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, complement levels and serum immunoglobulin levels in this study. The full immunophenotyping analysis in this study indicates that HU therapy in β-thalassaemia/HbE patients does not significantly compromise the immune response.
Macrophages and their precursor cells, monocytes, are the first line of defense of the body against foreign pathogens and tissue damage. Although the origins of macrophages are diverse, some common transcription factors (such as PU.1) are required to ensure proper development of monocytes/macrophages. Here, we report that the deficiency of zbtb14, a transcription repressor gene belonging to ZBTB family, leads to an aberrant expansion of monocyte/macrophage population in zebrafish. Mechanistically, Zbtb14 functions as a negative regulator of pu.1, and SUMOylation on a conserved lysine is essential for the repression activity of Zbtb14. Moreover, a serine to phenylalanine mutation found in an acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patient could target ZBTB14 protein to autophagic degradation. Hence, ZBTB14 is a newly identified gene implicated in both normal and malignant myelopoiesis.
OBJECTIVES: To uncover the function and underlying mechanism of an essential transcriptional factor, PU.1, in the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).METHODS: The expression and localisation of PU.1 and its potential target, FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3), in the synovium of patients with RA were determined by western blot and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. UREΔ (with PU.1 knockdown) and FLT3-ITD (with FLT3 activation) mice were used to establish collagen antibody-induced arthritis (CAIA). For the in vitro study, the effects of PU.1 and FLT3 on primary macrophages and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) were investigated using siRNAs. Mechanistically, luciferase reporter assays, western blotting, FACS and IHC were conducted to show the direct regulation of PU.1 on the transcription of FLT3 in macrophages and FLS. Finally, a small molecular inhibitor of PU.1, DB2313, was used to further illustrate the therapeutic effects of DB2313 on arthritis using two in vivo models, CAIA and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA).RESULTS: The expression of PU.1 was induced in the synovium of patients with RA when compared with that in osteoarthritis patients and normal controls. FLT3 and p-FLT3 showed opposite expression patterns compared with PU.1 in RA. The CAIA model showed that PU.1 was an activator, whereas FLT3 was a repressor, of the development of arthritis in vivo. Moreover, results from in vitro assays were consistent with the in vivo results: PU.1 promoted hyperactivation and inflammatory status of macrophages and FLS, whereas FLT3 had the opposite effects. In addition, PU.1 inhibited the transcription of FLT3 by directly binding to its promoter region. The PU.1 inhibitor DB2313 clearly alleviated the effects on arthritis development in the CAIA and CIA models.CONCLUSIONS: These results support the role of PU.1 in RA and may have therapeutic implications by directly repressing FLT3. Therefore, targeting PU.1 might be a potential therapeutic approach for RA.
Transcriptional dysregulation is a prominent feature in leukemia. Here, we systematically surveyed transcription factor (TF) vulnerabilities in leukemia and uncovered TF clusters that exhibit context-specific vulnerabilities within and between different subtypes of leukemia. Among these TF clusters, we demonstrated that acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with high IRF8 expression was addicted to MEF2D. MEF2D and IRF8 form an autoregulatory loop via direct binding to mutual enhancer elements. One important function of this circuit in AML is to sustain PU.1/MEIS1 co-regulated transcriptional outputs via stabilizing PU.1's chromatin occupancy. We illustrated that AML could acquire dependency on this circuit through various oncogenic mechanisms that results in the activation of their enhancers. In addition to forming a circuit, MEF2D and IRF8 can also separately regulate gene expression, and dual perturbation of these two TFs leads to a more robust inhibition of AML proliferation. Collectively, our results revealed a TF circuit essential for AML survival.
The ETO-family transcriptional corepressors, including ETO, ETO2, and MTGR1, are all involved in leukemia-causing chromosomal translocations. In every case, an ETO-family corepressor acquires a DNA-binding domain (DBD) to form a typical transcription factor-the DBD binds to DNA, while the ETO moiety manifests transcriptional activity. A directly comparative study of these "homologous" fusion transcription factors may clarify their similarities and differences in regulating transcription and leukemogenesis. Here, we performed a side-by-side comparison between AML1-ETO and ETO2-GLIS2, the most common fusion proteins in M2-and M7-subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia, respectively, by inducible expression of them in U937 leukemia cells. We found that, although AML1-ETO and ETO2-GLIS2 can use their own DBDs to bind DNA, they share a large proportion of genome-wide binding regions dependent on other cooperative transcription factors, including the ETS-, bZIP- and bHLH-family proteins. AML1-ETO acts as either transcriptional repressor or activator, whereas ETO2-GLIS2 mainly acts as activator. The repressor-versus-activator functions of AML1-ETO might be determined by the abundance of cooperative transcription factors/cofactors on the target genes. Importantly, AML1-ETO and ETO2-GLIS2 differentially regulate key transcription factors in myeloid differentiation including PU.1 and C/EBPβ. Consequently, AML1-ETO inhibits, but ETO2-GLIS2 facilitates, myeloid differentiation of U937 cells. This function of ETO2-GLIS2 is reminiscent of a similar effect of MLL-AF9 as previously reported. Taken together, this directly comparative study between AML1-ETO and ETO2-GLIS2 in the same cellular context provides insights into context-dependent transcription regulatory mechanisms that may underlie how these seemingly "homologous" fusion transcription factors exert distinct functions to drive different subtypes of leukemia.
Amphiregulin (AREG)/epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling induces hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), leading to promotion of T helper 9 (Th9) differentiation and anti-tumor functions. However, the role of the AREG/EGFR/HIF-1α pathway in regulating interleukin-9 (IL-9) production by T cells in adult patients with infectious mononucleosis (IM) has not been fully elucidated. Fifty IM patients and 20 controls were enrolled. The percentages of Th9 and T cytotoxic 9 (Tc9) cells, the mRNA relative expressions of the transcription factors of IL-9-secreting T cells, purine-rich nucleic acid binding protein 1 (PU.1) and forkhead box protein O1 (FOXO1), and the levels of IL-9, AREG, EGFR, and HIF-1α were measured. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from IM patients were stimulated with EGFR inhibitor or exogenous AREG in the presence or absence of anti-HIF-1α. Regulation of the AREG/EGFR/HIF-1α pathway to IL-9 production by T cells was assessed. The percentages of Th9 and Tc9 cells, plasma IL-9 levels, and PU.1 and FOXO1 mRNA expressions were elevated in IM patients. Plasma levels of AREG and HIF-1α were also increased in IM patients. AREG levels correlated positively with the percentages of Th9 and Tc9 cells in IM patients. Inhibition of EGFR suppressed IL-9-producing T cell differentiation and HIF-1α production. Exogenous AREG stimulation not only induced EGFR and HIF-1α expression but also promoted IL-9-secreting T cell differentiation. Neutralization of HIF-1α abrogated AREG/EGFR-induced Th9 and Tc9 differentiation in IM patients. The current data suggested that the AREG/EGFR/HIF-1α pathway contributed to the elevation of Th9 and Tc9 differentiation in IM patients.
BACKGROUND: Immune suppression is common in neoplasia and a major driver is tumor-induced myeloid dysfunction. Yet, overcoming such myeloid cell defects remains an untapped strategy to reverse suppression and improve host defense. Exposure of bone marrow progenitors to heightened levels of myeloid growth factors in cancer or following certain systemic treatments promote abnormal myelopoiesis characterized by the production of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and a deficiency in antigen-presenting cell function. We previously showed that a novel immune modulator, termed 'very small size particle' (VSSP), attenuates MDSC function in tumor-bearing mice, which was accompanied by an increase in dendritic cells (DCs) suggesting that VSSP exhibits myeloid differentiating properties. Therefore, here, we addressed two unresolved aspects of the mechanism of action of this unique immunomodulatory agent: (1) does VSSP alter myelopoiesis in the bone marrow to redirect MDSC differentiation toward a monocyte/macrophage or DC fate? and (2) does VSSP mitigate the frequency and suppressive function of human tumor-induced MDSCs?METHODS: To address the first question, we first used a murine model of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor-driven emergency myelopoiesis following chemotherapy-induced myeloablation, which skews myeloid output toward MDSCs, especially the polymorphonuclear (PMN)-MDSC subset. Following VSSP treatment, progenitors and their myeloid progeny were analyzed by immunophenotyping and MDSC function was evaluated by suppression assays. To strengthen rigor, we validated our findings in tumor-bearing mouse models. To address the second question, we conducted a clinical trial in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma, wherein 15 patients were treated with VSSP. Endpoints in this study included safety and impact on PMN-MDSC frequency and function.RESULTS: We demonstrated that VSSP diminished PMN-MDSCs by shunting granulocyte-monocyte progenitor differentiation toward monocytes/macrophages and DCs with heightened expression of the myeloid-dependent transcription factors interferon regulatory factor-8 and PU.1. This skewing was at the expense of expansion of granulocytic progenitors and rendered the remaining MDSCs less suppressive. Importantly, these effects were also demonstrated in a clinical setting wherein VSSP monotherapy significantly reduced circulating PMN-MDSCs, and their suppressive function.CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, these data revealed VSSP as a novel regulator of myeloid biology that mitigates MDSCs in cancer patients and reinstates a more normal myeloid phenotype that potentially favors immune activation over immune suppression.
High fructose intake has been implicated in obesity and metabolic syndrome, which are related to increased cardiovascular mortality. However, few studies have experimentally examined the role of renin-angiotensin system blockers and calcium channel blockers (CCB) in obesity. We investigated the effects of valsartan (an angiotensin II receptor blocker) and amlodipine (a CCB) on lipolysis through the potential mechanism of PU.1 inhibition. We observed that high fructose concentrations significantly increased adipose size and triglyceride, monoacylglycerol lipase, adipose triglyceride lipase, and stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1), activating transcription factor 3 and PU.1 levels in adipocytes in vitro. Subsequently, PU.1 inhibitor treatment was able to reduce triglyceride, SCD1, and PU.1 levels. In addition, elevated levels of triglyceride and PU.1, stimulated by a high fructose concentration, decreased with valsartan and amlodipine treatment. Overall, these findings suggest that high fructose concentrations cause triacylglycerol storage in adipocytes through PU.1-mediated activation. Furthermore, valsartan and amlodipine treatment reduced triacylglycerol storage in adipocytes by inhibiting PU.1 activation in high fructose concentrations in vitro. Thus, the benefits of valsartan and amlodipine in lipolysis may be through PU.1 inhibition in fructose-induced adiposity, and PU.1 inhibition might have a potential therapeutic role in lipolysis in fructose-induced obesity.
As the main constituent cells of the human placenta, trophoblasts proliferate, differentiate, and invade the uterine endometrium via a series of processes, which are regulated exquisitely through intercellular signaling mediated by hormones, cytokines, and growth factors. Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a biomarker of the response to immune checkpoint inhibitors and can regulate maternal-fetal immune tolerance during pregnancy progression. Recently, it was found that PD-L1 may regulate obstetric complications by affecting the function of trophoblasts. Therefore, we examined the expression and localization of PD-L1 in the human placenta and observed the effects of PD-L1 on trophoblasts migration and invasion in both the trophoblasts line HTR-8/SVneo and an extravillous explant culture model. Finally, we explored the molecular mechanisms underlying PD-L1-regulated trophoblasts migration and invasion through RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. Our data showed that PD-L1 was mainly expressed in syncytiotrophoblasts and that its protein levels increased with gestational age. Interestingly, the protein expression of PD-L1 was significantly decreased in placentas from pregnancies with preeclampsia compared with normal placentas. Importantly, the migration and invasion abilities of trophoblasts were significantly changed after knockdown or overexpression of PD-L1 in HTR-8/SVneo cells and an extravillous explant culture model, which was partially mediated through the transcription factor PU.1 (encoded by Spi1)-regulated Rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor beta (ARHGDIB) expression. These results suggested that PD-L1 was highly involved in the regulation of trophoblasts migration and invasion, providing a potential target for the diagnosis and treatment of placenta-derived pregnancy disorders.
Activated cardiac fibroblasts are involved in both reparative wound healing and maladaptive cardiac fibrosis after myocardial infarction (MI). Recent evidence suggests that PU.1 inhibition can enable reprogramming of profibrotic fibroblasts to quiescent fibroblasts, leading to attenuation of pathologic fibrosis in several fibrosis models. The role of PU.1 in acute MI has not been tested. We designed a randomized, blinded study to evaluate whether DB1976, a PU.1 inhibitor, attenuates cardiac function deterioration and fibrosis in a murine model of MI. A total of 44 Ai9 periostin-Cre transgenic mice were subjected to 60 min of coronary occlusion followed by reperfusion. At 7 days after MI, 37 mice were randomly assigned to control (vehicle) or DB1976 treatment and followed for 2 weeks. Left ventricular ejection fraction (EF), assessed by echocardiography, did not differ between the two groups before or after treatment (final EF, 33.3 ± 1.0% in control group and 31.2 ± 1.3% in DB1976 group). Subgroup analysis of female and male mice showed the same results. There were no differences in cardiac scar (trichrome stain) and fibrosis (interstitial/perivascular collagen; picrosirius stain) between groups. Results from the per-protocol dataset (including mice with pre-treatment EF < 35% only) were consistent with the full dataset. In conclusion, this randomized, blinded study demonstrates that DB1976, a PU.1 inhibitor, does not attenuate cardiac functional deterioration or cardiac fibrosis in a mouse model of MI caused by coronary occlusion/reperfusion.
Mast cells serve as a first-line defense of innate immunity. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) induced by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in mast cells plays a crucial role in antibacterial protection. The zinc finger transcription factor GATA2 cooperatively functions with the ETS family transcription factor PU.1 in multiple mast cell activities. However, the regulatory landscape directed by GATA2 and PU.1 under inflammation remains elusive. We herein showed that a large proportion of GATA2-binding peaks were closely located with PU.1-binding peaks in distal cis-regulatory regions of inflammatory cytokine genes in mast cells. Notably, GATA2 and PU.1 played crucial roles in promoting LPS-mediated inflammatory cytokine production. Genetic ablation of GATA2-PU.1-clustered binding sites at the Il6 -39 kb region revealed its central role in LPS-induced Il6 expression in mast cells. We demonstrate a novel collaborative activity of GATA2 and PU.1 in cytokine induction upon inflammatory stimuli via the GATA2-PU.1 overlapping sites in the distal cis-regulatory regions.
Comment on    Blood Cancer Discov. 2022 Sep 6;3(5):444-467.
Specific functions of the immune system are essential to protect us from infections caused by pathogens such as viruses and bacteria. However, as we age, the immune system shows a functional decline that can be attributed in large part to age-associated defects in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs)-the cells at the apex of the immune cell hierarchy. Here, we find that the Hippo pathway coactivator TAZ is potently induced in old HSCs and protects these cells from functional decline. We identify Clca3a1 as a TAZ-induced gene that allows us to trace TAZ activity in vivo. Using CLCA3A1 as a marker, we can isolate "young-like" HSCs from old mice. Mechanistically, Taz acts as coactivator of PU.1 and to some extent counteracts the gradual loss of PU.1 expression during HSC aging. Our work thus uncovers an essential role for Taz in a previously undescribed fail-safe mechanism in aging HSCs.
Asthma is a common chronic lung disease without absolute treatment, and hypersensitivity reactions and type 2 immune responses are responsible for asthma pathophysiology. ADAM10 as a metalloproteinase transmembrane protein is critical for development of Th2 responses, and levamisole as an anthelmintic drug has immunomodulatory effects, which not only regulates ADAM10 activity but also can suppress the bone marrow and neutrophil production. Therefore, in the present study, nanoparticles were used as a levamisole delivery system to reduce bone marrow suppression, and the immunomodulatory and ADAM10 inhibitory effects of levamisole were studied in allergic asthma. Asthmatic mice were treated with PLGA-levamisole nanoparticles. Then, AHR, BALF, and blood cell counts, levels of the IgG1 subclass, total and OVA-specific IgE, IL2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, IL-13, IL-17, IL-25, IL-33, INF-γ, and TNF-α, gene expression of FoxP3, T-bet, RORγt, PU.1, GATA3, FcεRII, CysLT1R, eotaxin, and ADAM10, and lung histopathology were evaluated. PLGA-LMHCl with considered characteristics could control airway hyper-responsiveness, eosinophils in the BALF, levels of immunoglobulins, Th2-, Th9-, and Th17-derived cytokines and pivotal genes, eosinophilic inflammation, hyperplasia of the goblet cell, and hyperproduction of mucus and could increase Th1- and Treg-derived cytokines and also pivotal genes. It could also modulate the ADAM10 activity and had no effect on the number of neutrophils in the bloodstream. The novel safe nanodrug had no side effect on the bone marrow to produce neutrophils and could control the allegro-immuno-inflammatory response of asthma.
The solubility of glimepiride (GM) was improved from 1.6 μg/mL to 22.0 mg/mL when GM and meglumine (MU) complexes were prepared. Therefore, transdermal hydrogels of GM Carbopol (GM-CP) and GM hydroxypropyl methylcellulose pullulan (GM-HPMC-Pu) were prepared successfully utilizing the improved drug solubility by GM-MU. Based on a single factor experiment and response surface methodology, two kinds of hydrogel formulations were optimized by drug release studies in vitro. The optimized GM-CP hydrogel was composed of GM, a mixture of azone and oleic acid (1:1, 2.6%, v/v) and carbopol 940 (1%, w/v). The GM-HPMC-Pu hydrogel was developed using GM, HPMC (3.5%, w/v), Pu (1.5%, w/v), glycerol (5%, v/v), azone (2.9%, v/v) and oleic acid (2.6%, v/v). The study of hydrogels in vivo was performed using rabbits. The results indicated that the drug could sustain release from GM-CP or GM-HPMC-Pu hydrogel and maintain the high plasma concentration for 48 h. Compared with commercial GM tablets, the relative bioavailability of GM-CP and GM-HPMC-Pu hydrogel reached 48% and 133%, respectively. Moreover, the drug release in vitro could well predict its absorption in vivo. There was a good correlation (R2≥0.966) in GM hydrogel between the drug release in vitro and transdermal absorption in vivo. Therefore, a novel GM hydrogel dosage form may be considered to design.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of Tregs and their subtypes in the treatment of allergic rhinitis with allergen immunotherapy (AIT) as well as the underlying mechanism.METHODS: 1. Thirty-one healthy controls, 29 Allergic rhinitis (AR) patients and 16 AR patients treated with AIT were recruited. The total nasal symptom scores (TNSSs) were calculated. The serum levels of IgE, IL-2, TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10 and IL-17 were measured. 2. Changes in the proportions of CD4+ T cells, Treg cells, Treg subtypes and Th1/Th2/Th9/Th17/Tfh cells in the peripheral blood of the subjects in the three groups were measured. 3. The correlations of Treg cells, Treg subtypes and TNSS with the levels of various cytokines in the AR group and AIT group were analysed.RESULTS: 1. Compared with the control group, the TNSS and IgE, IL-5 and IL-6 levels in the AR group were significantly increased, while the IL-2, IFN-γ and IL-10 levels were significantly decreased (P < 0.05). Compared with the AR group, the TNSS and IgE, IL-5 and IL-6 levels in the AIT group were significantly decreased, while the IL-2, IFN-γ and IL-10 levels were significantly increased (P < 0.05). 2. Compared with the control group, the proportions of Tregs, GATA3+ Tregs and Th1 cells in the AR group were significantly reduced, while the proportions of PU-1+ Tregs, T-bet+ Tregs and Th2 cells were significantly increased (P < 0.05). Compared with the AR group, the proportions of Tregs and Th1 cells in the AIT group were significantly increased, while the proportions of PU-1+ Tregs and Th2 cells were decreased (P < 0.05). 3. Correlation analysis showed that Treg cell proportions were negatively correlated with the TNSS, sIgE levels, IL-5 levels and IL-6 levels but positively correlated with the IL-2 and IL-10 levels (P < 0.05). PU-1+ Treg cell proportions were positively correlated with the TNSS, sIgE levels, IL-5 levels and IL-6 levels but negatively correlated with the Treg cell proportions, IL-2 levels and IL-10 levels (P < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: AIT can reduce the proportions of PU-1+ Treg subtypes in AR patients. PU-1+ Treg cell numbers can potentially be used as an indicator to monitor the therapeutic effect of AIT on AR.
The systemic immune response to viral infection is shaped by master transcription factors, such as NF-κB, STAT1, or PU.1. Although long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been suggested as important regulators of transcription factor activity, their contributions to the systemic immunopathologies observed during SARS-CoV-2 infection have remained unknown. Here, we employed a targeted single-cell RNA sequencing approach to reveal lncRNAs differentially expressed in blood leukocytes during severe COVID-19. Our results uncover the lncRNA PIRAT (PU.1-induced regulator of alarmin transcription) as a major PU.1 feedback-regulator in monocytes, governing the production of the alarmins S100A8/A9, key drivers of COVID-19 pathogenesis. Knockout and transgene expression, combined with chromatin-occupancy profiling, characterized PIRAT as a nuclear decoy RNA, keeping PU.1 from binding to alarmin promoters and promoting its binding to pseudogenes in naïve monocytes. NF-κB-dependent PIRAT down-regulation during COVID-19 consequently releases a transcriptional brake, fueling alarmin production. Alarmin expression is additionally enhanced by the up-regulation of the lncRNA LUCAT1, which promotes NF-κB-dependent gene expression at the expense of targets of the JAK-STAT pathway. Our results suggest a major role of nuclear noncoding RNA networks in systemic antiviral responses to SARS-CoV-2 in humans.
The identification of new prognostic markers of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is an urgent problem in oncourology. To investigate the potential prognostic significance of tumor microbiome and stromal inflammatory markers, we studied a cohort of 66 patients with RCC (23 clear cell RCC, 19 papillary RCC and 24 chromophobe RCC). The microbiome was analyzed in tumor and normal tissue by 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. Characterization of the tumor stroma was performed using immunohistochemistry. A significant difference in alpha diversity was demonstrated between normal kidney tissue and all types of RCC. Further, we demonstrated that the bacterial burden was higher in adjacent normal tissue than in a tumor. For the first time, we demonstrated a significant correlation between bacterial burden and the content of PU.1+ macrophages and CD66b+ neutrophils in kidney tumors. Tumors with high content of PU.1+ cells and CD66b+ cells in the stroma were characterized by a lower bacterial burden. In the tumors with high bacterial burden, the number of PU.1+ cells and CD66b+ was associated with a poor prognosis. The identified associations indicate the great prognostic potential of a combined tumor microbiome and stromal cell analysis.
The differentiation of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) from hematopoietic stem cells needs to go through several multipotent progenitor stages. However, it remains unclear whether the fates of multipotent progenitors are predefined by epigenetic states. Here, we report the identification of distinct accessible chromatin regions in all lymphoid progenitors (ALPs), EILPs, and ILC precursors (ILCPs). Single-cell MNase-seq analyses revealed that EILPs contained distinct subpopulations epigenetically primed toward either dendritic cell lineages or ILC lineages. We found that TCF-1 and GATA3 co-bound to the lineage-defining sites for ILCs (LDS-Is), whereas PU.1 binding was enriched in the LDSs for alternative dendritic cells (LDS-As). TCF-1 and GATA3 were indispensable for the epigenetic priming of LDSs at the EILP stage. Our results suggest that the multipotency of progenitor cells is defined by the existence of a heterogeneous population of cells epigenetically primed for distinct downstream lineages, which are regulated by key transcription factors.
Although originally described as transcriptional activator, SPI1/PU.1, a major player in haematopoiesis whose alterations are associated with haematological malignancies, has the ability to repress transcription. Here, we investigated the mechanisms underlying gene repression in the erythroid lineage, in which SPI1 exerts an oncogenic function by blocking differentiation. We show that SPI1 represses genes by binding active enhancers that are located in intergenic or gene body regions. HDAC1 acts as a cooperative mediator of SPI1-induced transcriptional repression by deacetylating SPI1-bound enhancers in a subset of genes, including those involved in erythroid differentiation. Enhancer deacetylation impacts on promoter acetylation, chromatin accessibility and RNA pol II occupancy. In addition to the activities of HDAC1, polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) reinforces gene repression by depositing H3K27me3 at promoter sequences when SPI1 is located at enhancer sequences. Moreover, our study identified a synergistic relationship between PRC2 and HDAC1 complexes in mediating the transcriptional repression activity of SPI1, ultimately inducing synergistic adverse effects on leukaemic cell survival. Our results highlight the importance of the mechanism underlying transcriptional repression in leukemic cells, involving complex functional connections between SPI1 and the epigenetic regulators PRC2 and HDAC1.
During an infection, hematopoiesis is altered to increase the output of mature myeloid cells to fight off the pathogen. Despite convincing evidence that hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) can sense pathogens directly, more mechanistic studies are needed to reveal whether pattern recognition receptor (PRR) signaling initiates myeloid development directly, or indirectly through the production of cytokines by HSPCs that can act in an autocrine/paracrine manner, or by a combination of both direct and indirect mechanisms. In this study, we have used an in vitro model of murine HSPCs to study myeloid differentiation in response to the TLR2 ligand Pam3CSK4 and showed that, besides indirect mechanisms, TLR2 stimulation of HSPCs promotes myelopoiesis directly by initiating a MyD88-dependent signaling. This direct differentiation program involves a combined activation of the transcription factors PU.1, C/EBPβ, and IRF7 driven by TBK1 and PI3K/mTOR. Notably, downstream of MyD88, the activated TBK1 kinase can activate mTOR directly and IRF7 induction is mediated by both TBK1 and mTOR. TLR2 signaling also induces NF-κB dependent IL-6 production that may further induce indirect myeloid differentiation. Our results have identified the direct signaling pathways and the transcription factors involved in macrophage development from HSPCs in response to TLR2 engagement, a critical process to trigger a rapid immune response during infection.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are characterized by daunting genetic heterogeneity and a high risk of leukemic transformation, which presents great challenges for clinical treatment. To identify new chemicals for MDS, we screened a panel of FDA-approved drugs and verified the neutrophil hyperplasia inhibiting role of 17β-estradiol (E2, a natural estrogen) in several zebrafish MDS models (pu.1G242D/G242D, irf8Δ57Δ/57 and c-mybhyper). However, the protective mechanism of estrogen in the development of hematological malignancies remains to be explored. Here, analyzing the role of E2 in the development of each hematopoietic lineage, we found that E2 exhibited a specific neutrophil inhibiting function. This neutrophil inhibitory function of E2 is attributed to its down-regulation of c-myb, which leads to accelerated apoptosis and decreased proliferation of neutrophils. We further showed that knockdown of hif1α could mimic the neutrophil inhibiting role of E2, and hif1α overexpression could reverse the protective function of E2. Collectively, our findings highlight the protective role of E2 on MDS by inhibiting hif1α-c-myb pathway, suggesting that E2 is a promising and effective drug for hematopoietic tumors associated with abnormal neutrophil hyperplasia.
Objective: Although PU.1/Spi1 is known as a master regulator for macrophage development and function, we have reported previously that it is also expressed in adipocytes and is transcriptionally induced in obesity. Here, we investigated the role of adipocyte PU.1 in the development of the age-associated metabolic syndrome. Methods: We generated mice with adipocyte-specific PU.1 knockout, assessed metabolic changes in young and older adult PU.1fl/fl (control) and AdipoqCre PU.1fl/fl (aPU.1KO) mice, including body weight, body composition, energy expenditure, and glucose homeostasis. We also performed transcriptional analyses using RNA-Sequencing of adipocytes from these mice. Results: aPU.1KO mice have elevated energy expenditure at a young age and decreased adiposity and increased insulin sensitivity in later life. Corroborating these observations, transcriptional network analysis indicated the existence of validated, adipocyte PU.1-modulated regulatory hubs that direct inflammatory and thermogenic gene expression programs. Conclusion: Our data provide evidence for a previously uncharacterized role of PU.1 in the development of age-associated obesity and insulin resistance.
Comment in    Blood Cancer Discov. 2022 Sep 6;3(5):378-381.
BACKGROUND: Midostaurin combined with chemotherapy is currently used to treat newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients with FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3)-mutations. However, midostaurin acts as an antagonist to some chemotherapeutic agents in leukemia cell lines without FLT3 mutations. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) induces apoptosis when used in combination with midostaurin in FLT3-mutated AML cells. This combination has been shown to be safe in AML patients. However, the effect of this combination has not been investigated in AML without FLT3 mutations.METHODS: Cell proliferation was assessed by a cell counting assay. Cell death was evaluated by cell viability and Annexin-V assays. Cell differentiation was assessed by CD11b expression profiling and morphological analysis. To explore the underlying mechanisms, we studied the role of caspase3/7, Lyn, Fgr, Hck, RAF, MEK, ERK, AKT, PU.1, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β (C/EBPβ) and C/EBPε by Western blot analysis and immunoprecipitation assays. Antitumor activity was also confirmed in mouse xenograft models established with AML cells.RESULTS: In this study, 0.1 - 0.25 μM midostaurin (mido(L)) combined with ATRA induced differentiation while 0.25 - 0.5 μM midostaurin (mido(H)) combined with ATRA triggered apoptosis in some AML cell lines without FLT3-mutations. Midostaurin combined with ATRA (mido-ATRA) also exhibited antitumor activity in mouse xenograft models established with AML cells. Mechanistically, mido(H)-ATRA-induced apoptosis was dependent on caspase-3/7. Mido(L)-ATRA inhibited Akt activation which was associated with decreased activity of Lyn/Fgr/Hck, resulted in dephosphorylation of RAF S259, activated RAF/MEK/ERK, along with upregulating the protein levels of C/EBPβ, C/EBPε and PU.1. A MEK specific inhibitor was observed to suppress mido(L)-ATRA-induced increases in the protein levels of C/EBPs and PU.1 and mido(L)-ATRA-induced differentiation. Furthermore, inhibition of Akt activity promoted mido(L)-ATRA-induced downregulation of RAF S259 phosphorylation and mido(L)-ATRA-induced differentiation. Therefore, Lyn/Fgr/Hck-associated Akt inhibition activated RAF/MEK/ERK and controlled mido(L)-ATRA-induced differentiation by upregulation of C/EBPs and PU.1. Mido(L)-ATRA also promoted assembly of the signalosome, which may facilitate RAF activation.CONCLUSIONS: Midostaurin combined with ATRA exerts antitumor activity against AML with wild-type FLT3 mutations in vitro and in vivo. These findings may provide novel therapeutic strategies for some AML patients without FLT3 mutations and imply a new target of midostaurin.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Colorectal cancer [CRC] is one of the most frequent malignancies, but the molecular mechanisms driving cancer growth are incompletely understood. We characterised the roles of the cytokine IL-9 and Th9 cells in regulating CRC development.METHODS: CRC patient samples and samples from AOM/DSS treated mice were analysed for expression of IL-9, CD3, and PU.1 by FACS analysis and immunohistochemistry. IL-9 citrine reporter mice, IL-9 knockout mice, and PU.1 and GATA3 CD4-Cre conditional knockout mice were studied in the AOM/DSS model. DNA minicircles or hyper-IL-6 were used for overexpression of cytokines in vivo. Effects of IL-6 and IL-9 were determined in organoid and T cell cultures. Claudin2/3 expression was studied by western blotting and bacterial translocation by FISH.RESULTS: We uncovered a significant expansion of IL-9- and PU.1-expressing mucosal Th9 cells in CRC patients, with particularly high levels in patients with colitis-associated neoplasias. PU.1+ Th9 cells accumulated in experimental colorectal neoplasias. Deficiency of IL-9 or inactivation of PU.1 in T cells led to impaired tumour growth in vivo, suggesting a protumoral role of Th9 cells. In contrast, GATA3 inactivation did not affect Th9-mediated tumour growth. Mechanistically, IL-9 controls claudin2/3 expression and T cell-derived IL-6 production in colorectal tumours. IL-6 abrogated the anti-proliferative effects of IL-9 in epithelial organoids in vivo. IL-9-producing Th9 cells expand in CRC and control IL-6 production by T cells.CONCLUSIONS: IL-9 is a crucial regulator of tumour growth in colitis-associated neoplasias and emerges as potential target for therapy.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a common heart disease in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM), and is sometimes its main cause of death. Among all the causes of DCM, myocardial cell death is considered to be the most basic pathological change. Furthermore, studies have shown that pyroptosis, the pro-inflammatory programmed cell death, contributes to the progress of DCM. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) also have been proved to take part in the formation of DCM. However, it is not clear whether and how miRNAs regulate myocardial cell pyroptosis in DCM development. In our study, the results showed that the expression of miR-223-3p was significantly increased in cardiomyocytes induced by high glucose, whereas the down-regulation of miR-223-3p weakened it. To understand the signal transduction mechanism of miR-223-3p leading to pyroptosis, we found inhibition of miR-223-3p expression down-regulated caspase-1, pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β and other pyroptosis-associated poteins. Moreover, miR-223-3p repressed SPI1 expression. Furthermore, we silenced SPI1 with siRNA to mimic the effect of miR-223-3p, up-regulating the expression of caspase-1 and resulting to pyroptosis. The above findings inspired us to propose a new signaling pathway to regulate scoria of cardiomyocytes under hyperglycemia: miR-223-3p↑→ SPI1↓→ caspase-1↑ → IL-1β and other pyroptosis-associated poteins↑→ pyroptosis↑. In summary, miR-223-3p could be a potential therapeutic target for DCM.
BACKGROUND: Microglia are innate immune cells that are the only residential macrophages in the central nervous system. They play vital physiological roles in the adult brain and during development. Microglia are particularly in the spotlight because many genetic risk factors recently identified for neurodegenerative diseases are largely expressed in microglia. Rare polymorphisms in these risk alleles lead to abnormal activity of microglia under traumatic or disease conditions.METHODS: In the present study, to investigate the multifaceted functions of human microglia, we established a novel robust protocol to generate microglia from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) using a combination of cytokines and small chemicals essential for microglia ontogeny. Moreover, we highly enhanced the microglial differentiation efficiency by forcing the expression of PU.1, a crucial transcription factor for microglial development, during posterior mesoderm differentiation.RESULTS: By our novel method, we demonstrated the generation of a greater number of hiPSC-derived microglia (hiMGLs, approximately 120-folds) than the prior methods (at most 40-folds). Over 90% of the hiMGLs expressed microglia-specific markers, such as CX3CR1 and IBA-1. Whole-transcriptome analysis revealed that these hiMGLs are similar to human primary microglia but differ from monocytes/macrophages. Furthermore, the specific physiological functions of microglia were confirmed through indices of lipopolysaccharide responsiveness, phagocytotic ability, and inflammasome formation. By co-culturing these hiMGLs with mouse primary neurons, we demonstrated that hiMGLs can regulate the activity and maturation of neurons.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, our new simple, rapid, and highly efficient method for generating microglia from hiPSCs will prove useful for future investigations on microglia in both physiological and disease conditions, as well as for drug discovery.
Programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) on tumor cells is a significant prognostic biomarker for a number of malignancies, although less is known about the significance of PD-L1 positive immune cells in colon carcinoma. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the role of PD-L1 in a large cohort of colon carcinomas to identify patterns of PD-L1 expression in the tumor microenvironment and its correlation with other key immune subsets to better understand the impact of these immune cells. We assessed 1218 colon carcinomas on representative tissue microarray sections, gathered relevant clinicopathologic information, and performed immunohistochemical staining for mismatch repair proteins, CD8, CD163, LAG3, PD-L1, FoxP3, and BRAF V600E. We then performed automated quantification; manual quantification was used for PD-L1 tumor cells and immune cells. Dual PD-L1/PU.1 immunostain was also performed. The majority of PD-L1 positive cells expressed PU.1 thus representing tumor-associated macrophages. Based on the median number of PD-L1 positive immune cells (7.6/mm2), we classified tumors into two classes: (1) PD-L1 immune cell low and (2) PD-L1 immune cell high. PD-L1 immune cell high colon carcinomas showed favorable prognostic pathologic features including less frequent extramural venous invasion (p = 0.0001) and lower AJCC stage (p = 0.0001); they were also more commonly associated with deficient mismatch repair (dMMR) (p = 0.0001) and BRAF V600E reactivity. PD-LI immune cell high tumors were associated with high CD8, CD163, and FoxP3 positive cells (p = 0.0001, respectively). PD-L1 immune cell high and LAG3 high colon carcinomas were associated with improved disease-specific survival (p = 0.0001 and 0.001, respectively). PD-L1 expression on tumor cells was not associated with disease-specific survival. On multivariate analysis of chemotherapy naïve stage 2 colon carcinomas, only extramural venous invasion (p = 0.002), perineural invasion (p = 0.001) and PD-L1 immune cell expression (p = 0.032) correlated with disease-specific survival. Resected colonic carcinomas with high expression of PD-L1 and LAG3 proteins on immune cells were associated with improved prognosis in colon carcinoma. The mechanism underlying the improved prognosis of colon carcinomas bearing high numbers of immunoregulatory cells needs further investigation.
Pearl color is regulated by genetics, biological pigments, and organic matrices and an important factor that influences the pearl economic value. The epigenetic regulation mechanism underlying pearl pigmentation remains poorly understood. In this study, we collected the mantle pallial (MP) and mantle central (MC) of the golden-lipped strain, and MP of the silver-lipped strain of pearl oyster Pinctada fucata martensii. The whole-genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) technology was employed to investigate the possible implication of epigenetic factors regulating nacre color variation. Our results revealed approximately 2.5% of the cytosines in the genome of the P. fucata martensii were methylated, with the CG methylation type was in most abundance. Overall, we identified 12, 621 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) corresponding to 3,471 DMR-associated genes (DMGs) between the two comparison groups. These DMGs were principally enriched into KEGG metabolic pathways including ABC transporters, Terpenoid backbone biosynthesis, and fatty acid degradation. In addition, integrating information about DMGs, DEGs, and function annotation indicated eight genes LDLR, NinaB, RDH, CYP, FADS, fn3, PU-1, KRMP as the candidate genes related to pigmentation of nacre color. A further study proved that the pigment in nacre is violaxanthin. The results of our study provide the support that there is an association between nacre color formation and DNA methylation profiles and will help to reveal the epigenetic regulation of nacre pigmentation formation in pearl oyster P. fucata martensii.
Human mannose receptor 1 (MRC1) is a cell surface receptor expressed in macrophages and other myeloid cells that inhibits human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) particle release by tethering virions to producer cell membranes. HIV-1 counteracts MRC1 expression by inhibiting mrc1 transcription. Here, we investigated the mechanism of MRC1 downregulation in HIV-1-infected macrophages. We identified the myeloid cell-specific transcription factor PU.1 as critical for regulating MRC1 expression. In the course of our study, we recognized a complex interplay between HIV-1 Tat and PU.1 transcription factors: Tat upregulated HIV-1 gene expression but inhibited mrc1 transcription, whereas PU.1 inhibited HIV-1 transcription but activated MRC1 expression. Disturbing this equilibrium by silencing PU.1 resulted in increased HIV-1 gene expression and reduced MRC1 promoter activity. Our study identified PU.1 as a central player in transcriptional control, regulating a complex interplay between viral and host gene expression in HIV-infected macrophages. IMPORTANCE HIV-1 replication in primary human cells depends on the activity of virus-encoded proteins but also involves cellular factors that can either promote (viral dependency factors) or inhibit (host restriction factors) virus replication. In previous work, we identified human MRC1 as a macrophage-specific host restriction factor that inhibits the detachment of viral particles from infected cells. Here, we report that HIV-1 counteracts this effect of MRC1 by imposing a transcriptional block on cellular MRC1 gene expression. The transcriptional inhibition of the MRC1 gene is accomplished by Tat, an HIV-1 factor whose best-described function actually is the enhancement of HIV-1 gene expression. Thus, HIV-1 has evolved to use the same protein for (i) activation of its own gene expression while (ii) inhibiting expression of MRC1 and other host factors.
The transcription factor PU.1 (Purine-rich DNA binding, SPI1) is a key regulator of hematopoiesis, whose level is influenced by transcription through its enhancers and its post-transcriptional degradation via microRNA-155 (miR-155). The degree of transcriptional regulation of the PU.1 gene is influenced by repression via DNA methylation, as well as other epigenetic factors, such as those related to progenitor maturation status, which is modulated by the transcription factor Myeloblastosis oncogene (MYB). In this work, we show that combinatorial treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells with DNA methylation inhibitors (5-Azacytidine), MYB inhibitors (Celastrol), and anti-miR-155 (AM155) ideally leads to overproduction of PU.1. We also show that PU.1 reactivation can be compensated by miR-155 and that only a combined approach leads to sustained PU.1 derepression, even at the protein level. The triple effect on increasing PU.1 levels in myeloblasts stimulates the myeloid transcriptional program while inhibiting cell survival and proliferation, leading to partial leukemic differentiation.
BACKGROUND: Complement activation has an important role in the pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy.OBJECTIVE: To determine the correlation between IgAC3 ratio (IgA/C3) and total Oxford score and predictive value of IgA/C3 in IgA nephropathy. Methods Forty-three patients diagnosed with IgA nephropathy with > 10 glomerular + 1 arteries in biopsy were included in the study. Hematological and biochemical variables of the blood sample taken before the biopsy and total Oxford score were recorded. The study group was divided into two groups as proteinuria ≥ 1 g (PU ≥ 1) and proteinuria < 1 g (PU < 1). Statistics were carried out with SPSS 22.0 program. p < .05 considered as significant.RESULTS: The mean age of 43 patients was 40.4 (± 11.9) years; 51.2% of them were women. Proteinuria as 1 g or more was in 27 of 43 patients, and less than 1 g in 16 patients. The serum C3 level was lower in the group with PU ≥ 1 and showed a significant positive correlation with the IgA/C3 total Oxford score.CONCLUSION: A significant correlation was found between serum IgA/C3 and total Oxford score.
The formation of the bone marrow cavity is a prerequisite for endochondral ossification. In reviews and textbooks, it is occasionally reported that osteoclasts are essential for bone marrow cavity formation removing hypertrophic chondrocytes. Mice lacking osteoclasts or having functionally defective osteoclasts have osteopetrotic bones, yet they still form a bone marrow cavity. Here, we investigated the role of osteoclasts and macrophages in bone marrow cavity formation during embryogenesis. Macrophages can assist osteoclasts in matrix removal by phagocytosing resorption byproducts. Rank-deficient mice, lacking osteoclasts, and Pu.1-deficient mice, lacking monocytes, macrophages, and osteoclasts, displayed a delay in bone marrow cavity formation and a lengthening of the zone of hypertrophic chondrocytes. F4/80-positive monocyte/macrophage numbers increased by about fourfold in the bone marrow cavity of E18.5 Rank-deficient mice. Based on lineage-tracing experiments, the majority of the excess F4/80 cells were derived from definitive hematopoietic precursors of the fetal liver. In long bones of both Rank-/- and Pu.1-/- specimens, Mmp9-positive cells were still present. In addition to monocytes, macrophages, and osteoclasts, Ctsb-positive septoclasts were lost in Pu.1-/- specimens. The mineralization pattern was altered in Rank-/- and Pu.1-/- specimens, revealing a significant rise in transverse-oriented mineralized structures. Taken together, our findings imply that early on during bone marrow cavity formation, osteoclasts facilitate the entry of blood vessels and later the turnover of hypertrophic chondrocytes, whereas macrophages appear to play no major role. Furthermore, the absence of septoclasts in Pu.1-/- specimens suggests that septoclasts are either derived from Pu.1-dependent precursors or require PU.1 activity for their differentiation. © 2022 The Authors. Journal of Bone and Mineral Research published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Bone and Mineral Research (ASBMR).
The understanding of sequence-specific DNA minor groove interactions has recently made major steps forward and as a result, the goal of development of compounds that target the minor groove is an active research area. In an effort to develop biologically active minor groove agents, we are preparing and exploring the DNA interactions of diverse diamidine derivatives with a 5'-GAATTC-3' binding site using a powerful array of methods including, biosensor-SPR methods, and X-ray crystallography. The benzimidazole-thiophene module provides an excellent minor groove recognition component. A central thiophene in a benzimidazole-thiophene-phenyl aromatic system provides essentially optimum curvature for matching the shape of the minor groove. Comparison of that structure to one with the benzimidazole replaced with an indole shows that the two structures are very similar, but have some interesting and important differences in electrostatic potential maps, the DNA minor groove binding structure based on x-ray crystallographic analysis, and inhibition of the major groove binding PU.1 transcription factor complex. The binding KD for both compounds is under 10 nM and both form amidine H-bonds to DNA bases. They both have bifurcated H-bonds from the benzimidazole or indole groups to bases at the center of the -AATT- binding site. Analysis of the comparative results provides an excellent understanding of how thiophene compounds recognize the minor groove and can act as transcription factor inhibitors.
Interaction of immune cells with the systemic environment is necessary for the coordinated development and execution of immune responses. Monocyte-macrophage lineage cells reside at the junction of innate and adaptive immunity. Previously we reported that the sialyltransferase ST6GAL1 in the extracellular milieu modulates B cell development and IgG production, granulocyte production, and attenuates acute airway inflammation to bacterial challenge in mouse models. Here, we report that extracellular ST6GAL1 also elicits profound responses in monocyte-macrophage lineage cells. We show that recombinant ST6GAL1 adheres to subsets of thioglycolate-elicited inflammatory cells in the mouse peritoneum and to cultured human monocyte THP-1 cells. Exposure of the inflammatory cells to recombinant ST6GAL1 elicited wholesale changes in the gene expression profile of primary mouse myeloid cells; most notable was the striking up-regulation of monocyte-macrophage and monocyte-derived dendritic cell development pathway signature genes and transcription factors PU.1, NFκB and their target genes, driving increased monocyte-macrophage population and survival ex vivo. In the cultured human monocyte cells, the essential cell surface receptor of the monocyte-macrophage lineage, the M-CSF receptor (M-CSF-R, Csfr1) was a target of extracellular ST6GAL1 catalytic activity. Extracellular ST6GAL1 activated the M-CSF-R and initiated intracellular signaling events, namely, the nuclear translocation of NFκB subunit p65, and phosphorylation of ERK 1/2 and AKT. The findings implicate extracellular ST6GAL1 in monocyte development by a mechanism initiated at the cell surface and support an emerging paradigm of an extracellular glycan-modifying enzyme as a central regulator coordinating immune hematopoietic cell development and function.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the immune cell profiles of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and to identify longitudinal changes in those profiles over time.METHODS: We employed mass cytometry with 3 different panels of 38-39 markers (an immunophenotyping panel, a T cell/monocyte panel, and a B cell panel) in cryopreserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 9 patients with early SLE, 15 patients with established SLE, and 14 controls without autoimmune disease. We used machine learning-driven clustering, flow self-organizing maps, and dimensional reduction with t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding to identify unique cell populations in early SLE and established SLE. We used mass cytometry data of PBMCs from 19 patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and 23 controls to compare levels of specific cell populations in early RA and SLE. For the 9 patients with early SLE, longitudinal mass cytometry analysis was applied to PBMCs at enrollment, 6 months after enrollment, and 1 year after enrollment. Serum samples were also assayed for 65 cytokines using Luminex multiplex assay, and associations between cell types and cytokines/chemokines were assessed.RESULTS: Levels of peripheral helper T cells, follicular helper T (Tfh) cells, and several Ki-67+ proliferating subsets (ICOS+Ki-67+ CD8 T cells, Ki-67+ regulatory T cells, CD19intermediate Ki-67high plasmablasts, and PU.1high Ki-67high monocytes) were increased in patients with early SLE, with more prominent alterations than were seen in patients with early RA. Longitudinal mass cytometry and multiplex serum cytokine assays of samples from patients with early SLE revealed that levels of Tfh cells and CXCL10 had decreased 1 year after enrollment. Levels of CXCL13 were positively correlated with levels of several of the expanded cell populations in early SLE.CONCLUSION: Two major helper T cell subsets and unique Ki-67+ proliferating immune cell subsets were expanded in patients in the early phase of SLE, and the immunologic features characteristic of early SLE evolved over time.
Pan-leukocyte exhaustion is a physiological process associated with immune homeostasis. Too much of immune exhaustion can lead to immune impairment and increased susceptibility to infections and cancer; too little can lead to chronic inflammation. Since type-2 diabetes subjects have both impaired immunity and metainflammation, we looked at TLR induced pan-immune exhaustion and its regulation, in these subjects. TLR induced expression of PD-1 and CTLA-4 in T cells, B cells, monocytes and neutrophils, in whole blood cultures, were quantified by flowcytometry. Circulating levels and in vitro secretion of IFN-β and α-Defensin-1 (α-DEF-1) were quantified by ELISA. TLR induced expression of PU.1, IRF-3,-4 and -5 in whole blood cultures was quantified by qRT-PCR. Systemic lipid and protein peroxidation was quantified by spectrophotometry. TLR induced expression of PD-1 (in monocytes) and CTLA-4 expression (in B cells and neutrophils) were decreased in drug naive newly diagnosed diabetes patients. This was associated with decreased secretion and circulating levels of IFN-β and increased secretion and circulating levels of α-DEF-1 in these subjects. No major derangement in the transcriptional network was seen. Many of these defects were only partially rectified in those under treatment. Together, we hypothesize that the high defensin levels could inhibit TLR signalling leading to reduced IFN-β levels, which in turn could lead to reduced expression of PD-1 and CTLA-4 in the immune cells. This effect along with systemic redox stress could fuel metainflammation in type-2 diabetes.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common type of leukemia in adults, accounting for 30% of all adult leukemia cases. While there have been recent improvements in the prognosis of the disease, the prognosis remains grim, and further understanding of AML and the development of new therapeutic agents is critical. This study aimed to investigate the potential interaction between colorectal cancer (CRC) cells and AML cells. Unexpectedly, we found that CRC cell-derived conditioned medium (CM) showed anticancer activities in AML cells by inducing apoptosis and differentiation. Mechanistic studies suggest that these phenotypes are closely associated with the suppression of PI3K/AKT/mTOR and MAPK survival signaling, the upregulation of myeloid differentiation-promoting transcription factors c/EBPα and PU.1, and the augmentation of executioner caspases-3/7. Importantly, bioinformatic analyses of our gene expression profiling data, including that derived from principal component analysis (PCA), volcano plots, boxplots, heat maps, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) pathways, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, which evaluate gene expression profiling data, provided deeper insight into the mechanism in which CRC-CM broadly modulates apoptosis-, cell cycle arrest-, and differentiation-related gene expression, such as BMF, PLSCR3, CDKN1C, and ID2, among others, revealing the genes that exert anticancer effects in AML cells at the genomic level. Collectively, our data suggest that it may be worthwhile to isolate and identify the molecules with tumor-suppressive effects in the CM, which may help to improve the prognosis of patients with AML.
The study of milk fat composition is a priority topic at the international level; however, there are few studies on the composition of triacylglycerides (TAG) and sterols in cow’s milk produced in organic production systems. The objective of this study was to determine the profile of TAG, cholesterol, and other sterols in the fat of raw cow’s milk produced under organic conditions in the municipality of Tecpatán, Chiapas. Every month for one year, milk samples were obtained from three production units (PU 1, 2 and 3) and from the collecting tank (CT) of the municipality (12 months × 4 = 48 samples), in accordance with Mexican regulations. Milk fat was extracted by detergent solution and TAG and sterol analyses were performed by gas chromatography with a flame ionization detector and capillary columns. Chromatographic analyses identified and quantified 15 TAG in all milk fats, from C26 to C54, with a bimodal behavior; the maximum value (% w/w) for the first mode was located at C38 (14.48) and, for the second mode, C50 and C52 were considered with values of 11.55 and 11.60, respectively. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by Tukey’s test only yielded significance (p < 0.05) for C26; most TAG values over time showed homogeneous variability. Cholesterol, brassicasterol, and campesterol were also determined; ANOVA did not show statistical significance (p ≥ 0.05) between them in the production units and collecting tank. Cholesterol had the highest percentage of the sterols with a mean value of 96.41%. The TAG and cholesterol profiles found in this study were similar to those reported in other countries.
OBJECTIVE: Th9- and regulatory T (Treg) cells exert pro- and anti-allergic activity, respectively. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-related immunomodulatory impacts can be enhanced by inflammatory cytokines. Here, the modulatory effects of IFN-γ/TNF-α-induced MSCs on Th9- and Treg cell-related parameters were investigated using an asthma model.METHODS: Allergic asthma was induced in BALB/c mice using sensitized and challenging with ovalbumin (OVA). The asthmatic groups were treated intraperitoneally with PBS, MSCs, IFN-γ-induced MSCs, TNF-α-induced MSCs and 'IFN-γ + TNF-α'-induced MSCs before the challenge phase. The mice were sacrificed 24 h after challenge. The serum IL-9 and IL-35 levels, as well as gene expression of IL-9, PU.1, IL-35-EBI3, and FOXP3 in the lung tissues were assessed using ELISA and real time-PCR, respectively.RESULTS: The differences of Th9 and Treg-related parameters were not significant between untreated asthmatic mice and those treated with non-induced MSCs. In comparison with untreated asthmatic group, treatment with IFN-γ-induced MSCs significantly reduced serum IL-9 levels, reduced lung expression of IL-9 and PU.1, while increasing serum IL-35 levels as well as lung expression of FOXP3; treatment with TNF-α-induced MSCs significantly reduced serum IL-9 levels as well as lung expression of IL-9, and treatment with 'IFN-γ + TNF-α'-induced MSCs, significantly modulated all investigated Th9 and Treg-related parameters. In comparison to mice treated with non-induced MSCs, serum IL-9 levels were remarkably decreased in mice treated with IFN-γ-induced and 'IFN-γ + TNF-α'-induced MSCs.CONCLUSIONS: IFN-γ-and 'IFN-γ + TNF-α' treated MSCs exerted almost comparable impacts, but were more efficient than TNF-α-exposed MSCs. Thus, IFN-γ alone can be sufficient to promote immunomodulatory effects of MSCs.
The aromatic diamine 2-(4-aminophenyl)ethylamine (4APEA) is a potential monomer for polymers and advanced materials. Here, 4APEA was produced by fermentation using genetically engineered Escherichia coli (Masuo et al.2016). Optimizing fed-batch cultures of this strain produced the highest reported yield to date of 4APEA (7.2%; 3.5 g/L versus glucose) within 72 h. Appropriate aeration was important to maximize production and avoid unfavorable 4APEA degradation. Fermented 4APEA was purified from culture medium and polymerized with methylene diphenyldiisocyanate and hexamethylene diisocyanate to produce polyureas PU-1 and PU-2, respectively. The decomposition temperatures for 10% weight loss (Td10) of PU-1 and PU-2 were 276 °C and 302 °C, respectively, and were comparable with that of other thermostable aromatic polyureas. This study is the first to synthesize polyureas from the microbial aromatic diamine. Their excellent thermostability will be useful for the industrial production of heat-resistant polymer materials.
We describe a mechanism responsible for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In humans with SLE and in 2 SLE murine models, there was marked enrichment of isolevuglandin-adducted proteins (isoLG adducts) in monocytes and dendritic cells. We found that antibodies formed against isoLG adducts in both SLE-prone mice and humans with SLE. In addition, isoLG ligation of the transcription factor PU.1 at a critical DNA binding site markedly reduced transcription of all C1q subunits. Treatment of SLE-prone mice with the specific isoLG scavenger 2-hydroxybenzylamine (2-HOBA) ameliorated parameters of autoimmunity, including plasma cell expansion, circulating IgG levels, and anti-dsDNA antibody titers. 2-HOBA also lowered blood pressure, attenuated renal injury, and reduced inflammatory gene expression uniquely in C1q-expressing dendritic cells. Thus, isoLG adducts play an essential role in the genesis and maintenance of systemic autoimmunity and hypertension in SLE.
As early T cell precursors transition from multipotentiality to T lineage commitment, they change expression of multiple transcription factors. It is unclear whether individual transcription factors directly control choices between T cell identity and some alternative fate or whether these factors mostly affect proliferation or survival during the normal commitment process. Here, we unraveled the impacts of deleting individual transcription factors at two stages in early T cell development, using synchronized in vitro differentiation systems, single-cell RNA-seq with batch indexing, and controlled gene-disruption strategies. First, using a customized method for single-cell CRISPR disruption, we defined how the early-acting transcription factors Bcl11a, Erg, Spi1 (PU.1), Gata3, and Tcf7 (TCF1) function before commitment. The results revealed a kinetic tug of war within individual cells between T cell factors Tcf7 and Gata3 and progenitor factors Spi1 and Bcl11a, with an unexpected guidance role for Erg. Second, we tested how activation of transcription factor Bcl11b during commitment altered ongoing cellular programs. In knockout cells where Bcl11b expression was prevented, the cells did not undergo developmental arrest, instead following an alternative path as T lineage commitment was blocked. A stepwise, time-dependent regulatory cascade began with immediate-early transcription factor activation and E protein inhibition, finally leading Bcl11b knockout cells toward exit from the T cell pathway. Last, gene regulatory networks of transcription factor cross-regulation were extracted from the single-cell transcriptome results, characterizing the specification network operating before T lineage commitment and revealing its links to both the Bcl11b knockout alternative network and the network consolidating T cell identity during commitment.
Responses to kinase-inhibitor therapy in AML are frequently short-lived due to the rapid development of resistance, limiting the clinical efficacy. Combination therapy may improve initial therapeutic responses by targeting pathways used by leukemia cells to escape monotherapy. Here we report that combined inhibition of KIT and lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) produces synergistic cell death in KIT-mutant AML cell lines and primary patient samples. This drug combination evicts both MYC and PU.1 from chromatin driving cell cycle exit. Using a live cell biosensor for AKT activity, we identify early adaptive changes in kinase signaling following KIT inhibition that are reversed with the addition of LSD1 inhibitor via modulation of the GSK3a/b axis. Multi-omic analyses, including scRNA-seq, ATAC-seq and CUT&Tag, confirm these mechanisms in primary KIT-mutant AML. Collectively, this work provides rational for a clinical trial to assess the efficacy of KIT and LSD1 inhibition in patients with KIT-mutant AML.
Kupffer cells (KCs), the largest tissue-resident macrophage population in the body, play a central role in maintaining a delicate balance between immune tolerance and immunity in the liver. However, the underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive. In this study, we show that KCs express high levels of miR-146a, which is under control of the PU.1 transcription factor. miR-146a deficiency promoted KCs differentiation toward a proinflammatory phenotype; conversely, miR-146a overexpression suppressed this phenotypic differentiation. We found that hepatitis B virus (HBV) persistence or HBV surface Ag treatment significantly upregulated miR-146a expression and thereby impaired polarization of KCs toward a proinflammatory phenotype. Furthermore, in an HBV carrier mouse model, KCs depletion by clodronate liposomes dramatically promoted HBV clearance and enhanced an HBV-specific hepatic CD8+ T cell and CD4+ T cell response. Consistent with this finding, miR-146a knockout mice cleared HBV faster and elicited a stronger adaptive antiviral immunity than wild-type mice. In vivo IL-12 blockade promoted HBV persistence and tempered the HBV-specific CTL response in the liver of miR-146a knockout mice. Taken together, our results identified miR-146a as a critical intrinsic regulator of an immunosuppressive phenotype in KCs under inflammatory stimuli, which may be beneficial in maintenance of liver homeostasis under physiological condition. Meanwhile, during HBV infection, miR-146a contributed to viral persistence by inhibiting KCs proinflammatory polarization, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target in HBV infection.
BACKGROUND: The BIN1 locus contains the second-most significant genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease. BIN1 undergoes alternate splicing to generate tissue- and cell-type-specific BIN1 isoforms, which regulate membrane dynamics in a range of crucial cellular processes. Whilst the expression of BIN1 in the brain has been characterized in neurons and oligodendrocytes in detail, information regarding microglial BIN1 expression is mainly limited to large-scale transcriptomic and proteomic data. Notably, BIN1 protein expression and its functional roles in microglia, a cell type most relevant to Alzheimer's disease, have not been examined in depth.METHODS: Microglial BIN1 expression was analyzed by immunostaining mouse and human brain, as well as by immunoblot and RT-PCR assays of isolated microglia or human iPSC-derived microglial cells. Bin1 expression was ablated by siRNA knockdown in primary microglial cultures in vitro and Cre-lox mediated conditional deletion in adult mouse brain microglia in vivo. Regulation of neuroinflammatory microglial signatures by BIN1 in vitro and in vivo was characterized using NanoString gene panels and flow cytometry methods. The transcriptome data was explored by in silico pathway analysis and validated by complementary molecular approaches.RESULTS: Here, we characterized microglial BIN1 expression in vitro and in vivo and ascertained microglia expressed BIN1 isoforms. By silencing Bin1 expression in primary microglial cultures, we demonstrate that BIN1 regulates the activation of proinflammatory and disease-associated responses in microglia as measured by gene expression and cytokine production. Our transcriptomic profiling revealed key homeostatic and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory response pathways, as well as transcription factors PU.1 and IRF1 that are regulated by BIN1. Microglia-specific Bin1 conditional knockout in vivo revealed novel roles of BIN1 in regulating the expression of disease-associated genes while counteracting CX3CR1 signaling. The consensus from in vitro and in vivo findings showed that loss of Bin1 impaired the ability of microglia to mount type 1 interferon responses to proinflammatory challenge, particularly the upregulation of a critical type 1 immune response gene, Ifitm3.CONCLUSIONS: Our convergent findings provide novel insights into microglial BIN1 function and demonstrate an essential role of microglial BIN1 in regulating brain inflammatory response and microglial phenotypic changes. Moreover, for the first time, our study shows a regulatory relationship between Bin1 and Ifitm3, two Alzheimer's disease-related genes in microglia. The requirement for BIN1 to regulate Ifitm3 upregulation during inflammation has important implications for inflammatory responses during the pathogenesis and progression of many neurodegenerative diseases.
Hofbauer cells (HBCs) are tissue macrophages of the placenta thought to be important for fetoplacental vascular development and innate immune protection. The developmental origins of HBCs remain unresolved and could implicate functional diversity of HBCs in placenta development and disease. In this study, we used flow cytometry and paternally inherited reporters to phenotype placenta macrophages and to identify fetal-derived HBCs and placenta-associated maternal macrophages in the mouse. In vivo pulse-labeling traced the ontogeny of HBCs from yolk sac-derived erythro-myeloid progenitors, with a minor contribution from fetal hematopoietic stem cells later on. Single-cell RNA-sequencing revealed transcriptional similarities between placenta macrophages and erythro-myeloid progenitor-derived fetal liver macrophages and microglia. As with other fetal tissue macrophages, HBCs were dependent on the transcription factor Pu.1, the loss-of-function of which in embryos disrupted fetoplacental labyrinth morphology, supporting a role for HBC in labyrinth angiogenesis and/or remodeling. HBC were also sensitive to Pu.1 (Spi1) haploinsufficiency, which caused an initial deficiency in the numbers of macrophages in the early mouse placenta. These results provide groundwork for future investigation into the relationship between HBC ontogeny and function in placenta pathophysiology.
To determine molecular changes that correlate with long-term physiological changes after spinal cord injury associated with spasticity, we used a complete transection model with an injury at sacral spinal level S2, wherein tail spasms develop in rats weeks to months post-injury. Using Illumina and nanopore sequencing, we found that from 12,266 expressed genes roughly 11% (1,342) change expression levels in the rats with spasticity. The transcription factor PU.1 (Spi-1 proto-oncogene) and several of its known regulated genes were upregulated during injury, possibly reflecting changes in cellular composition. In contrast to widespread changes in gene expression, only a few changes in alternative exon usage could be detected because of injury. There were more than 1,000 changes in retained intron usage, however. Unexpectedly, most of these retained introns have not been described yet but could be validated using direct RNA nanopore sequencing. In addition to changes from injury, our model allowed regional analysis of gene expression. Comparing the segments rostral and caudal to the injury site in naïve animals showed 525 differentially regulated genes and differential regional use of retained introns. We did not detect changes in the serotonin receptor 2C editing that were implicated previously in this spinal cord injury model. Our data suggest that regulation of intron retention of polyadenylated pre-mRNA is an important regulatory mechanism in the spinal cord under both physiological and pathophysiological conditions.
Comment in    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2022 Jun;18(6):306.
Although multistability is an important dynamic property of a wide range of complex systems, it is still a challenge to develop mathematical models for realising high order multistability using realistic regulatory mechanisms. To address this issue, we propose a robust method to develop multistable mathematical models by embedding bistable models together. Using the GATA1-GATA2-PU.1 module in hematopoiesis as the test system, we first develop a tristable model based on two bistable models without any high cooperative coefficients, and then modify the tristable model based on experimentally determined mechanisms. The modified model successfully realises four stable steady states and accurately reflects a recent experimental observation showing four transcriptional states. In addition, we develop a stochastic model, and stochastic simulations successfully realise the experimental observations in single cells. These results suggest that the proposed method is a general approach to develop mathematical models for realising multistability and heterogeneity in complex systems.
Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are functionally immunosuppressive cells that arise and expand during extensive inflammatory conditions by increased hematopoietic output or reprogramming of immune cells. In sepsis, an increase of circulating MDSCs is associated with adverse outcomes, but unique traits that can be used to identify increased activity of MDSCs are lacking. By using endotoxin tolerance as a model of sepsis-induced monocytic MDSCs (M-MDSC-like cells), this study aims to identify the mediator and transcriptional regulator profile associated with M-MDSC activity. After analyzing 180 inflammation-associated proteins, a profile of differentially expressed cytokines was found in M-MDSC-like cells versus normal monocytes stimulated with LPS. These cytokines were associated with 5 candidate transcription factors, where particularly PU.1 showed differential expression on both transcriptional and protein levels in M-MDSC-like cells. Furthermore, inhibition of PU.1 led to increased production of CXCL5 and CCL8 in M-MDSC-like cells indicating its role in regulating the ability of M-MDSC-like cells to recruit other immune cells. Taken together, the study identifies a unique profile in the pattern of immune mediators defining M-MDSC activity upon LPS stimulation, which offers a functional link to their contribution to immunosuppression.
Increased bone resorption by osteoclasts after estrogen deficiency is the main cause of postmenopausal osteoporosis. TET2 (tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 2) is a DNA demethylase that regulates cellular function and differentiation potential. Macroautophagy/autophagy maintains cellular homeostasis by recycling unnecessary and damaged organelles. This study revealed that TET2 promoted bone loss in oophorectomized (OVX) mice and that TET2 promoted osteoclast differentiation by regulating autophagy. Tet2 knockdown inhibited autophagy and osteoclast differentiation in vitro. Mechanistically, Tet2 knockdown increased BCL2 (B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2) expression and BCL2 exhibited increased binding to BECN1 and negatively regulated autophagy. Small interfering RNA specific to Bcl2 interfered with BCL2 expression in Tet2-knockdown bone marrow cells/precursors, partially reversing autophagy dysregulation and promoting osteoclast differentiation. Moreover, the LV-shTet2 lentivirus prevented bone loss in OVX mice. In summary, our findings provide evidence that TET2 promotes osteoclast differentiation by inhibiting BCL2 expression and positively regulating BECN1-dependent autophagy.Abbreviations: ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; ATP6V0D2: ATPase, H+ transporting, lysosomal V0 subunit D2; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; BECN1: beclin 1, autophagy related; BMs: bone marrow cells; CTSK: cathepsin K; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP9: matrix metallopeptidase 9; OVX: oophorectomy; RUNX1: runt related transcription factor 1; SOCS3: suppressor of cytokine signaling 3; SPI1/PU.1: Spi-1 proto-oncogene; TNFSF11/RANKL: tumor necrosis factor (ligand) superfamily, member 11; TET2: tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 2.
Type 1 conventional dendritic cells (cDC1s) are rare immune cells critical for the induction of antigen-specific cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, although the genetic program driving human cDC1 specification remains largely unexplored. We previously identified PU.1, IRF8, and BATF3 transcription factors as sufficient to induce cDC1 fate in mouse fibroblasts, but reprogramming of human somatic cells was limited by low efficiency. Here, we investigated single-cell transcriptional dynamics during human cDC1 reprogramming. Human induced cDC1s (hiDC1s) generated from embryonic fibroblasts gradually acquired a global cDC1 transcriptional profile and expressed antigen presentation signatures, whereas other DC subsets were not induced at the single-cell level during the reprogramming process. We extracted gene modules associated with successful reprogramming and identified inflammatory signaling and the cDC1-inducing transcription factor network as key drivers of the process. Combining IFN-γ, IFN-β, and TNF-α with constitutive expression of cDC1-inducing transcription factors led to improvement of reprogramming efficiency by 190-fold. hiDC1s engulfed dead cells, secreted inflammatory cytokines, and performed antigen cross-presentation, key cDC1 functions. This approach allowed efficient hiDC1 generation from adult fibroblasts and mesenchymal stromal cells. Mechanistically, PU.1 showed dominant and independent chromatin targeting at early phases of reprogramming, recruiting IRF8 and BATF3 to shared binding sites. The cooperative binding at open enhancers and promoters led to silencing of fibroblast genes and activation of a cDC1 program. These findings provide mechanistic insights into human cDC1 specification and reprogramming and represent a platform for generating patient-tailored cDC1s, a long-sought DC subset for vaccination strategies in cancer immunotherapy.
BACKGROUND: The transcription factor Spi-1 proto-oncogene (SPI1, also known as PU.1) is a key regulator of signal communication in the immune system and is essential for the development of myeloid cells and lymphocytes. However, the potential role of SPI1 in gastric cancer (GC) and the correlations between SPI1 and immune infiltration remain unclear.METHODS: In the present study, multiple databases including ONCOMINE, TIMER, Kaplan-Meier Plotter, and The Cancer Genome Atlas were used to explore the expression levels and prognostic value of SPI1 in GC. cBioPortal was used to explore the possible reasons for the increased expression of SPI1 in GC. The correlations between SPI1 expression and tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TICs) were analyzed using CIBERSORT and TIMER. Gene set enrichment analysis was used to determine the biological function of SPI1 in the development of GC. In addition, a risk signature based on SPI1-related immunomodulators was constructed to accurately evaluate the prognosis of patients with GC. The upregulation of SPI1 expression in GC was further confirmed through immunohistochemistry, western blotting, and real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) assay.RESULTS: The expression of SPI1 was increased significantly in GC according to multiple databases, and high expression of SPI1 was related to poor prognosis and progression of GC. The main factor influencing the high expression of SPI1 mRNA in GC may be diploidy, not DNA methylation. Moreover, immunohistochemistry, western blotting, and RT-qPCR assays also confirmed the upregulated expression of SPI1 in GC. CIBERSORT analysis revealed that SPI1 expression was correlated with seven types of TICs (naive B cells, resting memory CD4 T cells, activated memory CD4 T cells, activated natural killer cells, resting natural killer cells, M2 macrophages, and resting dendritic cells). Gene set enrichment analysis indicated that SPI1 might be related to immune activation in GC and participate in cell cycle regulation. In addition, based on SPI1-related immunomodulators, we developed multiple-gene risk prediction signatures and constructed a nomogram that can independently predict the clinical outcome of GC.CONCLUSION: The results of the present study suggest that SPI1 has a critical role in determining the prognosis of GC patients and may be a potential immunotherapeutic target.
Yolk sac (YS) CSF1 receptor positive (CSF1R+) cells are thought to be the progenitors for tissue-resident macrophages present in various tissues. The YS progenitors for tissue-resident macrophages are referred to as erythroid-myeloid progenitors (EMPs). However, diverse types of hematopoietic progenitors are present in the early YS, thus it is not precisely known which type of hematopoietic cell gives rise to the CSF1R+ lineage. In this study, an analysis was conducted to determine when CSF1R+ progenitors appeared in the early YS. It showed that CSF1R+ cells appeared in the YS as early as embryonic day 9 (E9) and that the earliest hematopoietic progenitors that differentiate into CSF1R+ cells were found in E8. Since these progenitors possessed the capability to generate primitive erythroid cells, it was likely that primitive erythroid lineages shared progenitors with the CSF1R+ lineage. Mutual antagonism appears to work between PU.1 and GATA1 when CSF1R+ cells appear in the early YS. One day later (E9), multiple progenitors, including myeloid-restricted progenitors and multipotent progenitors, in the YS could immediately generate CSF1R+ cells. These results suggest that EMPs are not an exclusive source for the CSF1R+ lineage; rather, multiple hematopoietic cell populations give rise to CSF1R+ lineage in the early YS.
Author information:(1)Translational Gastroenterology Unit, Nuffield Department of Medicine, Experimental Medicine Division, University of Oxford, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.(2)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Metabolic Diseases, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland.(3)MRC Centre for Inflammation Research, Queens Medical Research Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.(4)Health Services Research Unit, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, Norway.(5)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, Norway.(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Medicine and Health, Örebro University, Örebro, Sweden.(8)Department of Biomedical and Clinical Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.(9)HCU 'Lozano Blesa', IIS Aragón, Zaragoza, Spain.(10)EpiGen Institute, Akershus University Hospital, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.(11)Department of Genetics, Maria Skłodowska-Curie National Research Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.(12)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Clinical Oncology, Centre for Postgraduate Medical Education, Warsaw, Poland.(13)Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
The transcription factor PU.1 is a critical regulator of lineage fate in blood-forming hematopoietic stem cells (HSC). In response to pro-inflammatory signals, such as the cytokine IL-1β, PU.1 expression is increased in HSC and is associated with myeloid lineage expansion. To address potential functional heterogeneities arising in the phenotypic HSC compartment due to changes in PU.1 expression, here, we fractionated phenotypic HSC in mice using the SLAM surface marker code in conjunction with PU.1 expression levels, using the PU.1-EYFP reporter mouse strain. While PU.1lo SLAM cells contain extensive long-term repopulating activity and a molecular signature corresponding to HSC activity at steady state, following IL-1β treatment, HSCLT induce PU.1 expression and are replaced in the PU.1lo SLAM fraction by CD41+ HSC-like megakaryocytic progenitors (SL-MkP) with limited long-term engraftment capacity. On the other hand, the PU.1hi SLAM fraction exhibits extensive myeloid lineage priming and clonogenic activity and expands rapidly in response to IL-1β. Furthermore, we show that EPCR expression, but not CD150 expression, can distinguish HSCLT and SL-MkP under inflammatory conditions. Altogether, our data provide insights into the dynamic regulation of PU.1 and identify how PU.1 levels are linked to HSC fate in steady state and inflammatory stress conditions.
Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) prolong sepsis by promoting immunosuppression. We reported that sepsis MDSC development requires long non-coding RNA Hotairm1 interactions with S100A9. Using a mouse model that simulates the immunobiology of sepsis, we find that histone demethylase KDM6A promotes Hotairm1 transcription by demethylating transcription repression H3K27me3 histone mark. We show that chemical targeting of KDM6A by GSK-J4 represses Hotairm1 transcription, which coincides with decreases in transcription activation H3K4me3 histone mark and transcription factor PU.1 binding to the Hotairm1 promoter. We further show that immunosuppressive IL-10 cytokine promotes KDM6A binding at the Hotairm1 promoter. IL-10 knockdown repletes H3K27me3 and reduces Hotairm1 transcription. GSK-J4 treatment also relocalizes nuclear S100A9 protein to the cytosol. To support translation to human sepsis, we demonstrate that inhibiting H3K27me3 demethylation by KDM6A ex vivo in MDSCs from patients with protracted sepsis decreases Hotairm1 transcription. These findings suggest that epigenetic targeting of MDSCs in human sepsis might resolve post-sepsis immunosuppression and improve sepsis survival.
Prinsepia utilis, a wild-growing Himalayan shrub, is a good source of phytoceuticals, cosmeceuticals, and antioxidants. The present study is an attempt to investigate the effect of altitude and edaphic factors on phenolics and antioxidant activity in fruit pulp of Prinsepia utilis. The ripened fruits and soil samples were collected for detailed investigation. The fruits (pulp) were extracted in methanol for analyzing total phenolics and antioxidant activity using a spectrophotometric method and phenolic compounds by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Similarly, standard methods for soil analysis were used. Results reveal that altitude negatively correlated with total phenolics and flavonoid contents determined by a spectrophotometric method and with specific phenolic compounds determined by HPLC. For instance, Dwarahat population (PU-1) at lower altitude (1400 m asl) exhibited higher values of total phenolics and flavonoids, while total tannin was higher at Nainital (PU-6) population (2000 m asl). The antioxidant activity measured by 2, 2-azinobis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) was found higher in Narayan Ashram (PU-9) population (2750 m asl), while ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) was significantly higher in Badechena (PU-2) population (1600 m asl). Soil nutrients (edaphic factors) showed a good correlation among measured parameters. Neighbor-joining and principal component analysis identified phenolics and antioxidant-rich populations that can be utilized for collection of fruits from these populations.
The descriptions of muscle pathology in dysferlinopathy patients have classically included an inflammatory infiltrate that can mimic inflammatory myopathies. Based on over 20 years of institutional experience in evaluating dystrophic and inflammatory myopathy muscle biopsies at the University of Iowa, we hypothesized the inflammatory histopathology of dysferlinopathy is more similar to limb-girdle pattern muscular dystrophies such as calpainopathy and Becker muscular dystrophy, and distinct from true inflammatory myopathies. Muscle biopsies from 32 dysferlinopathy, 30 calpainopathy, 30 Becker muscular dystrophy, and 30 inflammatory myopathies (15 each of dermatomyositis and inclusion body myositis) were analyzed through digital quantitation of CD3, CD4, CD8, CD20, and PU.1 immunostaining. The expression of MHC class I and deposition of complement C5b-9 was also evaluated. Dysferlinopathy, calpainopathy, and Becker muscular dystrophy muscle biopsies had similar numbers of inflammatory cell infiltrates and significantly fewer CD3+ T-lymphocytes than dermatomyositis (p = 0.05) and inclusion body myositis (p < 0.0001) biopsies. There was no statistically significant difference in the number of PU.1+ macrophages identified in any diagnostic group. MHC class I expression was significantly lower in the limb-girdle pattern muscular dystrophies compared to the inflammatory myopathies (p < 0.0001). In contrast, complement C5b-9 deposition was similar among dysferlinopathy, dermatomyositis, and inclusion body myositis biopsies but significantly greater than calpainopathy and Becker muscular dystrophy biopsies (p = 0.05). Compared to calpainopathy, Becker muscular dystrophy, and inflammatory myopathies, the unique profile of minimal inflammatory cell infiltrates, absent to focal MHC class I, and diffuse myofiber complement C5b-9 deposition is the pathologic signature of dysferlinopathy muscle biopsies.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Hematological Disorders, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China,Tianjin Eye Hospital, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Tianjin Eye Institute, Clinical College of Ophthalmology, Tianjin Medical University, Nankai University Affiliated Eye Hospital, Tianjin 300020, China.(2)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Hematological Disorders, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.(3)Department of Pathology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300060, China.
Single-cell (sc)RNA-seq, together with RNA velocity and metabolic labeling, reveals cellular states and transitions at unprecedented resolution. Fully exploiting these data, however, requires kinetic models capable of unveiling governing regulatory functions. Here, we introduce an analytical framework dynamo (https://github.com/aristoteleo/dynamo-release), which infers absolute RNA velocity, reconstructs continuous vector fields that predict cell fates, employs differential geometry to extract underlying regulations, and ultimately predicts optimal reprogramming paths and perturbation outcomes. We highlight dynamo's power to overcome fundamental limitations of conventional splicing-based RNA velocity analyses to enable accurate velocity estimations on a metabolically labeled human hematopoiesis scRNA-seq dataset. Furthermore, differential geometry analyses reveal mechanisms driving early megakaryocyte appearance and elucidate asymmetrical regulation within the PU.1-GATA1 circuit. Leveraging the least-action-path method, dynamo accurately predicts drivers of numerous hematopoietic transitions. Finally, in silico perturbations predict cell-fate diversions induced by gene perturbations. Dynamo, thus, represents an important step in advancing quantitative and predictive theories of cell-state transitions.
Inflammation plays a critical role in cancer initiation and progression, and is induced by inflammatory factors that are direct target of oncogenes and tumor suppressors. The ETS related transcription factor Fli-1 is involved in the induction and progression of various cancers; yet its role in inflammation is not well-defined. Using RNAseq analysis, we herein demonstrate that FLI1 induces the inflammatory pathway in erythroleukemia cells. Majority of genes within the TNF signaling pathway including TNF and IL1B were identified as transcriptional targets of FLI1. TNF expression is indirectly regulated by FLI1 through upregulation of another ETS related oncogene, SPI1/PU.1. Pharmacological inhibition of TNF significantly inhibited leukemia cell proliferation in culture. In contrast, IL1B expression is directly regulated by FLI1 through promoter binding and transcriptional activation. The secreted factor IL1B binds its canonical receptors to accelerate cancer progression through changes in the surrounding tumor microenvironment, fostering cell survival, proliferation and migration. Through network analysis, we identified IL1B-interacting genes whose expression is also regulated by FLI1. Among these, IL1B-interacting proteins, FOS, JUN, JUNB and CASP1 are negatively regulated by FLI1. Treatment of leukemia cells with inhibitors of AP1 (TAN IIA) and CASP1 (765VX) significantly accelerated FLI1-dependent leukemia progression. These results emphasize the significance of FLI1 in regulating the inflammatory pathway. Targeting these inflammatory genes downstream of FLI1 offers a novel strategy to treat leukemic progression associated with overexpression of this oncogenic ETS transcription factor.
Different morphologies have been detected in teleost macrophages. In this study, two macrophage cell lines were sub-cloned from a large yellow croaker head kidney cell line, LYCK. One type of sub-cloned cells was fusiform but the other was round, named LYC-FM and LYC-RM cells respectively, based on their morphologies. Both types showed the characteristics of macrophages, including expression of macrophage-specific marker genes, possession of phagocytic and bactericidal activities, and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO). The transcription factor PU.1, crucial for the development of macrophages in mammals, was found to exist in two transcripts, PU.1a and PU.1b, in large yellow croaker, and constitutively expressed in LYC-FM and LYC-RM cells. The expression levels of PU.1a and PU.1b could be upregulated by recombinant large yellow croaker IFN-γ protein (rLcIFN-γ). Further studies showed that both PU.1a and PU.1b increased the expression of cathepsin S (CTSS) by binding to different E26-transformation-specific (Ets) motifs of the CTSS promoter. Additionally, we demonstrated that all three domains of PU.1a and PU.1b were essential for initiating CTSS expression by truncated mutation experiments. Our results therefore provide the first evidence that teleost PU.1 has a role in regulating the expression of CTSS.
The accurate reading of genetic information during transcription is essential for the expression of genes. Sequence binding specificity very often is attributed to short-range, usually specific interactions between amino acid residues and individual nucleotide bases through hydrogen bonding or hydrophobic contacts: "base readout" (direct readout). In contrast, many proteins recognize DNA sequences in an alternative fashion via "shape readout" (indirect readout), where many elements of the DNA sequence cooperate to localize the transcription factor. In this study, we use a coarse-grained protein-DNA model to investigate the origin of the sequence specificity of the protein PU.1 binding to its binding sites for a series of DNA sequences. We find that the binding specificity of PU.1 is achieved primarily via a nonspecific electrostatically driven DNA mechanism involving the change in the elastic properties of the DNA. To understand the underlying mechanism, we analyze how the mechanical properties of DNA change in relation to the location of the PU.1 bound along DNA. The simulations first show that electrostatic interactions between PU.1 and DNA can cause complex DNA conformational/dynamics changes. Using a semiflexible polymer theory, we find that PU.1 influences the DNA dynamics through a second-order mechanical effect. When PU.1 binds nonspecifically to the DNA via electrostatics, the DNA becomes stiffer and the protein slides along DNA in a search mode. In contrast, once the protein finds its specific binding site, the DNA becomes softer there. PU.1 thus locks into place through configurational entropy effects, which we suggest is a generic mechanism for indirect readout.
Microglia play a role in the emergence and preservation of a healthy brain microenvironment. Dysfunction of microglia has been associated with neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders. Investigating the function of human microglia in health and disease has been challenging due to the limited models of the human brain available. Here, we develop a method to generate functional microglia in human cortical organoids (hCOs) from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). We apply this system to study the role of microglia during inflammation induced by amyloid-β (Aβ). The overexpression of the myeloid-specific transcription factor PU.1 generates microglia-like cells in hCOs, producing mhCOs (microglia-containing hCOs), that we engraft in the mouse brain. Single-cell transcriptomics reveals that mhCOs acquire a microglia cell cluster with an intact complement and chemokine system. Functionally, microglia in mhCOs protect parenchyma from cellular and molecular damage caused by Aβ. Furthermore, in mhCOs, we observed reduced expression of Aβ-induced expression of genes associated with apoptosis, ferroptosis, and Alzheimer's disease (AD) stage III. Finally, we assess the function of AD-associated genes highly expressed in microglia in response to Aβ using pooled CRISPRi coupled with single-cell RNA sequencing in mhCOs. In summary, we provide a protocol to generate mhCOs that can be used in fundamental and translational studies as a model to investigate the role of microglia in neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders.
Regulation of gene expression requires the combinatorial binding of sequence-specific transcription factors (TFs) at promoters and enhancers. Prior studies showed that alterations in the spacing between TF binding sites can influence promoter and enhancer activity. However, the relative importance of TF spacing alterations resulting from naturally occurring insertions and deletions (InDels) has not been systematically analyzed. To address this question, we first characterized the genome-wide spacing relationships of 73 TFs in human K562 cells as determined by ChIP-seq (chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing). We found a dominant pattern of a relaxed range of spacing between collaborative factors, including 45 TFs exclusively exhibiting relaxed spacing with their binding partners. Next, we exploited millions of InDels provided by genetically diverse mouse strains and human individuals to investigate the effects of altered spacing on TF binding and local histone acetylation. These analyses suggested that spacing alterations resulting from naturally occurring InDels are generally tolerated in comparison to genetic variants directly affecting TF binding sites. To experimentally validate this prediction, we introduced synthetic spacing alterations between PU.1 and C/EBPβ binding sites at six endogenous genomic loci in a macrophage cell line. Remarkably, collaborative binding of PU.1 and C/EBPβ at these locations tolerated changes in spacing ranging from 5 bp increase to >30 bp decrease. Collectively, these findings have implications for understanding mechanisms underlying enhancer selection and for the interpretation of non-coding genetic variation.
BACKGROUND: Effective and safe therapies are needed for the treatment of patients with giant cell arteritis (GCA). Emerging as a key cytokine in inflammation, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) may play a role in promoting inflammation in GCA.OBJECTIVES: To investigate expression of GM-CSF and its receptor in arterial lesions from patients with GCA. To analyse activation of GM-CSF receptor-associated signalling pathways and expression of target genes. To evaluate the effects of blocking GM-CSF receptor α with mavrilimumab in ex vivo cultured arteries from patients with GCA.METHODS: Quantitative real time PCR, in situ RNA hybridisation, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy, immunoassay, western blot and ex vivo temporal artery culture.RESULTS: GM-CSF and GM-CSF receptor α mRNA and protein were increased in GCA lesions; enhanced JAK2/STAT5A expression/phosphorylation as well as increased expression of target genes CD83 and Spi1/PU.1 were observed. Treatment of ex vivo cultured GCA arteries with mavrilimumab resulted in decreased transcripts of CD3ε, CD20, CD14 and CD16 cell markers, and reduction of infiltrating CD16 and CD3ε cells was observed by immunofluorescence. Mavrilimumab reduced expression of molecules relevant to T cell activation (human leukocyte antigen-DR [HLA-DR]) and Th1 differentiation (interferon-γ), the pro-inflammatory cytokines: interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumour necrosis factor α (TNFα) and IL-1β, as well as molecules related to vascular injury (matrix metalloprotease 9, lipid peroxidation products and inducible nitric oxide synthase [iNOS]). Mavrilimumab reduced CD34 + cells and neoangiogenesis in GCA lesions.CONCLUSION: The inhibitory effects of mavrilimumab on multiple steps in the GCA pathogenesis cascade in vitro are consistent with the clinical observation of reduced GCA flares in a phase 2 trial and support its development as a therapeutic option for patients with GCA.
Cellular differentiation during hematopoiesis is guided by gene regulatory networks (GRNs) comprising transcription factors (TFs) and the effectors of cytokine signaling. Based largely on analyses conducted at steady state, these GRNs are thought to be organized as a hierarchy of bistable switches, with antagonism between Gata1 and PU.1 driving red- and white-blood cell differentiation. Here, we utilize transient gene expression patterns to infer the genetic architecture-the type and strength of regulatory interconnections-and dynamics of a twelve-gene GRN including key TFs and cytokine receptors. We trained gene circuits, dynamical models that learn genetic architecture, on high temporal-resolution gene-expression data from the differentiation of an inducible cell line into erythrocytes and neutrophils. The model is able to predict the consequences of gene knockout, knockdown, and overexpression experiments and the inferred interconnections are largely consistent with prior empirical evidence. The inferred genetic architecture is densely interconnected rather than hierarchical, featuring extensive cross-antagonism between genes from alternative lineages and positive feedback from cytokine receptors. The analysis of the dynamics of gene regulation in the model reveals that PU.1 is one of the last genes to be upregulated in neutrophil conditions and that the upregulation of PU.1 and other neutrophil genes is driven by Cebpa and Gfi1 instead. This model inference is confirmed in an independent single-cell RNA-Seq dataset from mouse bone marrow in which Cebpa and Gfi1 expression precedes the neutrophil-specific upregulation of PU.1 during differentiation. These results demonstrate that full PU.1 upregulation during neutrophil development involves regulatory influences extrinsic to the Gata1-PU.1 bistable switch. Furthermore, although there is extensive cross-antagonism between erythroid and neutrophil genes, it does not have a hierarchical structure. More generally, we show that the combination of high-resolution time series data and data-driven dynamical modeling can uncover the dynamics and causality of developmental events that might otherwise be obscured.
Erratum for    Nat Cell Biol. 2021 Dec;23(12):1224-1239.
Erratum in    Cancer Sci. 2023 May 23;:
During dendritic cell (DC) development, Myc expression in progenitors is replaced by Mycl in mature DCs, but when and how this transition occurs is unknown. We evaluated DC development using reporters for MYC, MYCL, and cell cycle proteins Geminin and CDT1 in wild-type and various mutant mice. For classical type 1 dendritic cells (cDC1s) and plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs), the transition occurred upon their initial specification from common dendritic cell progenitors (CDPs) or common lymphoid progenitors (CLPs), respectively. This transition required high levels of IRF8 and interaction with PU.1, suggesting the use of EICEs within Mycl enhancers. In pDCs, maximal MYCL induction also required the +41kb Irf8 enhancer that controls pDC IRF8 expression. IRF8 also contributed to repression of MYC. While MYC is expressed only in rapidly dividing DC progenitors, MYCL is most highly expressed in DCs that have exited the cell cycle. Thus, IRF8 levels coordinate the Myc-Mycl transition during DC development.
Hearing impairment and deafness is frequently observed as one of the neurological signs in patients with Minamata disease caused by methylmercury (MeHg) poisoning. Loss of hair cells in humans and animals is a consequence of MeHg poisoning. However, it is still not clear how MeHg causes hearing deficits. We employed the hair cells of the lateral line system of zebrafish embryos as a model to explore this question. We exposed transgenic zebrafish embryos to MeHg (30-360 μg/L) at the different stages, and scored the numbers of hair cells. We find that MeHg-induced reduction of hair cells is in a concentration dependent manner. By employing antisense morpholino against to pu.1, we confirm that loss of hair cells involves the action of leukocytes. Moreover, hair cell loss is attenuated by co-treating MeHg-exposed embryos with pharmacological inhibitors of NADPH oxidases named diphenyleneiodonium (DPI) and VAS2870. In situ gene expression analysis showed that genes encoding the SQSTM1-Keap1-Nrf2 systems involved in combating oxidative stress and immune responses are highly expressed in the lateral line organs of embryos exposed to MeHg. This suggests that induction of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is the primary effect of MeHg on the hair cells. Genes induced by MeHg are also involved in regeneration of the hair cells. These features are likely related to the capacity of the zebrafish to regenerate the lost hair cells.
The human host immune responses to parasitic infections are complex. They can be categorized into four immunological pathways mounted against four types of parasitic infections. For intracellular protozoa, the eradicable host immunological pathway is TH1 immunity involving macrophages (M1), interferon gamma (IFNγ) CD4 T cells, innate lymphoid cells 1 (NKp44+ ILC1), CD8 T cells (Effector-Memory4, EM4), invariant natural killer T cells 1 (iNKT1) cells, and immunoglobulin G3 (IgG3) B cells. For intracellular protozoa, the tolerable host immunological pathway is TH1-like immunity involving macrophages (M2), interferon gamma (IFNγ)/TGFβ CD4 T cells, innate lymphoid cells 1 (NKp44- ILC1), CD8 T cells (EM3), invariant natural killer T 1 (iNKT1) cells, and immunoglobulin A1 (IgA1) B cells. For free-living extracellular protozoa, the eradicable host immunological pathway is TH22 immunity involving neutrophils (N1), interleukin-22 CD4 T cells, innate lymphoid cells 3 (NCR+ ILC3), iNKT17 cells, and IgG2 B cells. For free-living extracellular protozoa, the tolerable host immunological pathway is TH17 immunity involving neutrophils (N2), interleukin-17 CD4 T cells, innate lymphoid cells 3 (NCR- ILC3), iNKT17 cells, and IgA2 B cells. For endoparasites (helminths), the eradicable host immunological pathway is TH2a immunity with inflammatory eosinophils (iEOS), interleukin-5/interleukin-4 CD4 T cells, interleukin-25 induced inflammatory innate lymphoid cells 2 (iILC2), tryptase-positive mast cells (MCt), iNKT2 cells, and IgG4 B cells. For ectoparasites (parasitic insects and arachnids), the eradicable host immunological pathway is TH2b immunity with inflammatory basophils, chymase- and tryptase-positive mast cells (MCct), interleukin-3/interleukin-4 CD4 T cells, interleukin-33 induced nature innate lymphoid cells 2 (nILC2), iNKT2 cells, and immunoglobulin E (IgE) B cells. The tolerable host immunity against ectoparasites and endoparasites is TH9 immunity with regulatory eosinophils, regulatory basophils, interleukin-9 mast cells (MMC9), thymic stromal lymphopoietin induced innate lymphoid cells 2, interleukin-9 CD4 T cells, iNKT2 cells, and IgA2 B cells. In addition, specific transcription factors important for specific immune responses were listed. This JAK/STAT signaling is key to controlling or inducing different immunological pathways. In sum, Tfh is related to STAT5β, and BCL6 expression. Treg is related to STAT5α, STAT5β, and FOXP3. TH1 immunity is related to STAT1α, STAT4, and T-bet. TH2a immunity is related to STAT6, STAT1α, GATA1, and GATA3. TH2b immunity is related to STAT6, STAT3, GATA2, and GATA3. TH22 immunity is associated with both STAT3α and AHR. THαβ immunity is related to STAT1α, STAT1β, STAT2, STAT3β, and ISGF. TH1-like immunity is related to STAT1α, STAT4, STAT5α, and STAT5β. TH9 immunity is related to STAT6, STAT5α, STAT5β, and PU.1. TH17 immunity is related to STAT3α, STAT5α, STAT5β, and RORG. TH3 immunity is related to STAT1α, STAT1β, STAT2, STAT3β, STAT5α, STAT5β, and ISGF. This categorization provides a complete framework of immunological pathways against four types of parasitic infections. This framework as well as relevant JAK/STAT signaling can provide useful knowledge to control allergic hypersensitivities and parasitic infections via development of vaccines or drugs in the near future.
Cells do not make fate decisions independently. Arguably, every cell-fate decision occurs in response to environmental signals. In many cases, cell-cell communication alters the dynamics of the internal gene regulatory network of a cell to initiate cell-fate transitions, yet models rarely take this into account. Here, we have developed a multiscale perspective to study the granulocyte-monocyte versus megakaryocyte-erythrocyte fate decisions. This transition is dictated by the GATA1-PU.1 network: a classical example of a bistable cell-fate system. We show that, for a wide range of cell communication topologies, even subtle changes in signaling can have pronounced effects on cell-fate decisions. We go on to show how cell-cell coupling through signaling can spontaneously break the symmetry of a homogenous cell population. Noise, both intrinsic and extrinsic, shapes the decision landscape profoundly, and affects the transcriptional dynamics underlying this important hematopoietic cell-fate decision-making system. This article has an associated 'The people behind the papers' interview.
AIMS: To investigate the role of Skp2 and JunB on acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) progression and the related mechanism.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The expression of Skp2 in NB4 cell line was depleted to explore its effect on proliferation and differentiation both in vitro and in vivo assays. Western blot and quantitative RT-PCR analysis were performed to explore Skp2-regulated downstream target genes. Luciferase and co-immunoprecipitation analysis indicated that PML-RARα inhibited the transactivation of JunB by interacting with the PU.1 protein. The western blot analysis confirmed that Skp2 could maintain the stability of PML-RARα.KEY FINDINGS: We report that the progression of APL and the attenuation of APL sensitivity to ATRA are positively associated with Skp2. Elevated Skp2 expression promotes APL progression by decreasing the expression of lncRNA HOTAIRM1 and inactivation of GSK3β, causing autophagy inhibition followed by the suppression of PML-RARα ubiquitylation and degradation, which represses JunB transcriptional activation through PU.1/PML-RARα transcriptional complex to block cell differentiation. Coupled with ATRA or GSK3β inhibitor treatment, genetic or pharmacological inhibition of Skp2 strikingly induces JunB expression by accelerating the degradation of PML-RARα, which contributes to the eradication of APL. Additionally, the expressions of Skp2 and JunB are negatively correlated in mice subcutaneous leukemia xenograft tumors.SIGNIFICANCE: Collectively, this study uncovers the roles of Skp2 in PML-RARα stabilization and in APL oncogenic functions. We reveal a novel mechanism of PML-RARα degradation and JunB regulation that constitute an important signaling network of Skp2-GSK3β-PML/RARα-JunB.
T helper-9 (Th9) is a new T cell subset involved in allergic rhinitis (AR) pathogenesis. Fexofenadine and fluticasone propionate are the first effective line of AR treatment. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of fexofenadine and fluticasone propionate on the gene expression levels of Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4), B cell-activating transcription factor-like (BATF), and SPI1 gene-encoded protein (PU.1), essential transcription factors for Th9 cell differentiation, in AR patients. Twenty-six AR patients (aged 32.8 ± 9.1 years, 13 men and 13 women) were treated with fexofenadine and fluticasone propionate for one month. Expression levels of PU.1, IRF4, and BATF genes were measured using Real-Time PCR. Our results showed that after one month of treatment, the expression level of IRF4 and BATF genes decreased significantly (P < 0.001, P < 0.01, respectively), while PU.1 gene expression was not remarkably different. Overall, our results showed that after one month of treatment with fexofenadine and fluticasone propionate, the expression levels of IRF4 and BATF genes in AR patients decreased, which may be due to this treatment regimen. However, the exact mechanism of action of fexofenadine and fluticasone propionate needs further study.
Erratum in    Nat Cell Biol. 2022 Jan;24(1):123.
BACKGROUND: As a metabolic reprogramming feature, cancer cells derive most of their energy from aerobic glycolysis, while its regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic strategies continue to be illusive.METHODS: Integrative analysis of publically available expression profile datasets was used to identify critical transcriptional regulators and their target glycolytic enzymes. The functions and acting mechanisms of transcriptional regulators in cancer cells were investigated by using in vitro and in vivo assays. The Kaplan-Meier curve and log-rank assay were used to conduct the survival study.RESULTS: Salmonella pathogenicity island 1 (SPI1/PU.1), a haematopoietic transcription factor, was identified to facilitate glycolytic process, tumourigenesis, invasiveness, as well as metastasis of colon cancer cells, which was interplayed by tumour-associated neutrophils. Mechanistically, neutrophils delivered SPI1 mRNA via extracellular vesicles, resulting in enhanced SPI1 expression of cancer cells. Through physical interaction with SPI1-related protein (SPIB), SPI1 drove expression of glycolytic genes within cancer cells, which in turn induced polarization of neutrophils via glycolytic metabolite lactate. Depletion of neutrophils or SPIB-SPI1 interaction in cancer cells significantly inhibited glycolytic process, tumourigenesis and aggressiveness. Upregulation of SPI1 or SPIB was found to be associated with poor prognosis in patients suffering from colon cancer.CONCLUSIONS: Therapeutic targeting of SPIB/SPI1-facilitated interplay of cancerous cells and neutrophils suppresses aerobic glycolysis and progression of cancer.
Transcription factors (TFs) regulate cell fates, and their expression must be tightly regulated. Autoregulation is assumed to regulate many TFs' own expression to control cell fates. Here, we manipulate and quantify the (auto)regulation of PU.1, a TF controlling hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), and correlate it to their future fates. We generate transgenic mice allowing both inducible activation of PU.1 and noninvasive quantification of endogenous PU.1 protein expression. The quantified HSPC PU.1 dynamics show that PU.1 up-regulation occurs as a consequence of hematopoietic differentiation independently of direct fast autoregulation. In contrast, inflammatory signaling induces fast PU.1 up-regulation, which does not require PU.1 expression or its binding to its own autoregulatory enhancer. However, the increased PU.1 levels induced by inflammatory signaling cannot be sustained via autoregulation after removal of the signaling stimulus. We conclude that PU.1 overexpression induces HSC differentiation before PU.1 up-regulation, only later generating cell types with intrinsically higher PU.1.
There is significant interest in ligands that can stabilize actinide ions in oxidation states that can be exploited to chemically differentiate 5f and 4f elements. Applications range from developing large-scale actinide separation strategies for nuclear industry processing to carrying out analytical studies that support environmental monitoring and remediation efforts. Here, we report syntheses and characterization of Np(iv), Pu(iv) and Am(iii) complexes with N-tert-butyl-N-(pyridin-2-yl)hydroxylaminato, [2-( t BuNO)py]-(interchangeable hereafter with [( t BuNO)py]-), a ligand which was previously found to impart remarkable stability to cerium in the +4 oxidation state. An[( t BuNO)py]4 (An = Pu, 1; Np, 2) have been synthesized, characterized by X-ray diffraction, X-ray absorption, 1H NMR and UV-vis-NIR spectroscopies, and cyclic voltammetry, along with computational modeling and analysis. In the case of Pu, oxidation of Pu(iii) to Pu(iv) was observed upon complexation with the [( t BuNO)py]- ligand. The Pu complex 1 and Np complex 2 were also isolated directly from Pu(iv) and Np(iv) precursors. Electrochemical measurements indicate that a Pu(iii) species can be accessed upon one-electron reduction of 1 with a large negative reduction potential (E 1/2 = -2.26 V vs. Fc+/0). Applying oxidation potentials to 1 and 2 resulted in ligand-centered electron transfer reactions, which is different from the previously reported redox chemistry of UIV[( t BuNO)py]4 that revealed a stable U(v) product. Treatment of an anhydrous Am(iii) precursor with the [( t BuNO)py]- ligand did not result in oxidation to Am(iv). Instead, the dimeric complex [AmIII(μ2-( t BuNO)py)(( t BuNO)py)2]2 (3) was isolated. Complex 3 is a rare example of a structurally characterized non-aqueous Am-containing molecular complex prepared using inert atmosphere techniques. Predicted redox potentials from density functional theory calculations show a trivalent accessibility trend of U(iii) < Np(iii) < Pu(iii) and that the higher oxidation states of actinides (i.e., +5 for Np and Pu and +4 for Am) are not stabilized by [2-( t BuNO)py]-, in good agreement with experimental observations.
Macrophages play an important role in maintaining tissue homeostasis, from regulating the inflammatory response to pathogens to resolving inflammation and aiding tissue repair. The surfactant protein A (SP-A) receptor SP-R210 (MYO18A) has been shown to affect basal and inflammatory macrophage states. Specifically, disruption of the longer splice isoform SP-R210L/MYO18Aα renders macrophages hyper-inflammatory, although the mechanism by which this occurs is not well understood. We asked whether disruption of the L isoform led to the hyper-inflammatory state via alteration of global genomic responses. RNA sequencing analysis of L isoform-deficient macrophages (SP-R210L(DN)) revealed basal and influenza-induced upregulation of genes associated with inflammatory pathways, such as TLR, RIG-I, NOD, and cytoplasmic DNA signaling, whereas knockout of both SP-R210 isoforms (L and S) only resulted in increased RIG-I and NOD signaling. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis showed increased genome-wide deposition of the pioneer transcription factor PU.1 in SP-R210L(DN) cells, with increased representation around genes relevant to inflammatory pathways. Additional ChIP-seq analysis of histone H3 methylation marks showed decreases in both repressive H3K9me3 and H3K27me3 marks with a commensurate increase in transcriptionally active (H3K4me3) histone marks in the L isoform deficient macrophages. Influenza A virus (IAV) infection, known to stimulate a wide array of anti-viral responses, caused a differential redistribution of PU.1 binding between proximal promoter and distal sites and decoupling from Toll-like receptor regulated gene promoters in SP-R210L(DN) cells. These finding suggest that the inflammatory differences seen in SP-R210L-deficient macrophages are a result of transcriptional differences that are mediated by epigenetic changes brought about by differential expression of the SP-R210 isoforms. This provides an avenue to explore how the signaling pathways downstream of the receptor and the ligands can modulate the macrophage inflammatory response.
BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease 2019 is characterized by the elevation of a broad spectrum of inflammatory mediators associated with poor disease outcomes. We aimed at an in-silico analysis of regulatory microRNA and their transcription factors (TF) for these inflammatory genes that may help to devise potential therapeutic strategies in the future.METHODS: The cytokine regulating immune-expressed genes (CRIEG) were sorted from literature and the GEO microarray dataset. Their co-differentially expressed miRNA and transcription factors were predicted from publicly available databases. Enrichment analysis was done through mienturnet, MiEAA, Gene Ontology, and pathways predicted by KEGG and Reactome pathways. Finally, the functional and regulatory features were analyzed and visualized through Cytoscape.RESULTS: Sixteen CRIEG were observed to have a significant protein-protein interaction network. The ontological analysis revealed significantly enriched pathways for biological processes, molecular functions, and cellular components. The search performed in the miRNA database yielded ten miRNAs that are significantly involved in regulating these genes and their transcription factors.CONCLUSION: An in-silico representation of a network involving miRNAs, CRIEGs, and TF, which take part in the inflammatory response in COVID-19, has been elucidated. Thus, these regulatory factors may have potentially critical roles in the inflammatory response in COVID-19 and may be explored further to develop targeted therapeutic strategies and mechanistic validation.
B cells play a significant role in the adaptive immune response by secreting immunoglobulins that can recognize and neutralize foreign antigens. They develop from hematopoietic stem cells, which also give rise to other types of blood cells, such as monocytes, neutrophils, and T cells, wherein specific transcriptional programs define the commitment and subsequent development of these different cell lineages. A number of transcription factors, such as PU.1, E2A, Pax5, and FOXO1, drive B cell development. Mounting evidence demonstrates that non-coding RNAs, such as microRNAs (miRNAs) and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), modulate the expression of these transcription factors directly by binding to the mRNA coding for the transcription factor or indirectly by modifying cellular pathways that promote expression of the transcription factor. Conversely, these transcription factors upregulate expression of some miRNAs and lncRNAs to determine cell fate decisions. These studies underscore the complex gene regulatory networks that control B cell development during hematopoiesis and identify new regulatory RNAs that require additional investigation. In this review, we highlight miRNAs and lncRNAs that modulate the expression and activity of transcriptional regulators of B lymphopoiesis and how they mediate this regulation.
The transcriptional repressor BCL11A is involved in hematological malignancies, B-cell development, and fetal-to-adult hemoglobin switching. However, the molecular mechanism by which it promotes the development of myeloid leukemia remains largely unknown. We find that Bcl11a cooperates with the pseudokinase Trib1 in the development of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Bcl11a promotes the proliferation and engraftment of Trib1-expressing AML cells in vitro and in vivo. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing analysis showed that, upon DNA binding, Bcl11a is significantly associated with PU.1, an inducer of myeloid differentiation, and that Bcl11a represses several PU.1 target genes, such as Asb2, Clec5a, and Fcgr3. Asb2, as a Bcl11a target gene that modulates cytoskeleton and cell-cell interaction, plays a key role in Bcl11a-induced malignant progression. The repression of PU.1 target genes by Bcl11a is achieved by sequence-specific DNA-binding activity and recruitment of corepressors by Bcl11a. Suppression of the corepressor components HDAC and LSD1 reverses the repressive activity. Moreover, treatment of AML cells with the HDAC inhibitor pracinostat and the LSD1 inhibitor GSK2879552 resulted in growth inhibition in vitro and in vivo. High BCL11A expression is associated with worse prognosis in humans with AML. Blocking of BCL11A expression upregulates the expression of PU.1 target genes and inhibits the growth of HL-60 cells and their engraftment to the bone marrow, suggesting that BCL11A is involved in human myeloid malignancies via the suppression of PU.1 transcriptional activity.
To discuss the effect of hydrophobic groups of a polymer on the structural properties and function of polymer nanoparticles (NPs), we grafted chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) with pullulan (PU) to form hydrophobically modified PU (PUC). Three PUC polymers, namely, PUC-1, PUC-2, and PUC-3, with different degrees of substitution were designed by changing the feed ratio of CDCA and PU. 1H-NMR spectra showed that the PUC polymer was successfully synthesized, and the degrees of hydrophobic substitution for PUC-1, PUC-2, and PUC-3 were calculated to be 10.66%, 13.92%, and 16.94%, respectively. The PUC NPs were prepared by the dialysis method and were shown to be uniformly spherical by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The average sizes were about (220±10) nm, (203±7) nm, and (163±6) nm under dynamic light scattering (DLS) for PUC-1 NPs, PUC-2 NPs, and PUC-3 NPs, respectively. Drug release experiments showed that the three PUC/DOX NPs exhibited good sustained release. At 48 h, the IC50 of doxorubicin in inhibiting colon cancer HCT116 cells was 0.0904 μg/mL. A cell study showed that PUC-3/DOX NPs had the highest uptake efficiency by HCT116 cells with the most cytotoxicity and inhibited the migration of HCT116 cells with the highest efficiency. The structural properties and function of polymer NPs were closely related to the hydrophobic groups in the polymer, and NPs with higher hydrophobicity showed a smaller size, higher drug capacity, and greater cell efficiency.
Erratum in    Immunity. 2022 Jun 14;55(6):1135.
PU.1, CEBPA, and CEBPB are Lineage Determining Transcription Factors (LDTFs) that play roles in biological processes such as cell differentiation and the immune system regulation including the innate immune pathways. The roles of these LDTFs in the innate RNA and DNA sensing pathways have received little attention. We show that in buffalo fibroblasts, PU.1 causes the mRNA up-regulation of the RNA and DNA sensors such as RIG-I (65.1 fold), MDA5 (20.4 fold), IFI16-l (8.0 fold), and cGAS (60.5 fold) while CEBPA does the same but to a lesser extent (RIG-I-26.4 fold, MDA5-10.8 fold, IFI16-l- 3.3 fold and cGAS-8.6 fold). CEBPB does not appear to have a role in the up-regulation of these genes. PU.1 expression also primes the cells to develop a strong immune response against the dsRNA virus mimic polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) by significantly up-regulating Interferon-β (14.9 fold change with p-value <0.0001). CEBPA up-regulates Interferon-β to a lower level than PU.1 (4.7 fold change with p-value 0.0024), whereas CEBPB exhibits non-significant up-regulation (2.1 fold with p-value of 0.1449). As PU.1 robustly up-regulates the nucleic acid sensing pathways, it can prove to be useful in improving the defence against viruses that can cause losses to animal husbandry.
The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transforms resting B cells and is involved in the development of B cell lymphomas. We report here that the viral noncoding RNA EBER2 accelerates B cell growth by potentiating expression of the UCHL1 deubiquitinase that itself increased expression of the Aurora kinases and of cyclin B1. Importantly, this effect was also visible in Burkitt's lymphoma cells that express none of the virus's known oncogenes. Mechanistically, EBER2 bound the UCHL1 messenger RNA (mRNA), thereby bringing a protein complex that includes PU.1, a UCHL1 transactivator, to the vicinity of its promoter. Although the EBV oncogene LMP1 has been suggested to induce UCHL1, we show here that EBER2 plays a much more important role to reach significant levels of the deubiquitinase in infected cells. However, some viruses that carried a polymorphic LMP1 had an increased ability to achieve full UCHL1 expression. This work identifies a direct cellular target of a viral noncoding RNA that is likely to be central to EBV's oncogenic properties.
Microglial activation is implicated in retinal vasoregression of the neurodegenerative ciliopathy-associated disease rat model (i.e., the polycystic kidney disease (PKD) model). microRNA can regulate microglial activation and vascular function, but the effect of microRNA-124 (miR-124) on retinal vasoregression remains unclear. Transgenic PKD and wild-type Sprague Dawley (SD) rats received miR-124 at 8 and 10 weeks of age intravitreally. Retinal glia activation was assessed by immunofluorescent staining and in situ hybridization. Vasoregression and neuroretinal function were evaluated by quantitative retinal morphometry and electroretinography (ERG), respectively. Microglial polarization was determined by immunocytochemistry and qRT-PCR. Microglial motility was examined via transwell migration assays, wound healing assays, and single-cell tracking. Our data showed that miR-124 inhibited glial activation and improved vasoregession, as evidenced by the reduced pericyte loss and decreased acellular capillary formation. In addition, miR-124 improved neuroretinal function. miR-124 shifted microglial polarization in the PKD retina from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype by suppressing TNF-α, IL-1β, CCL2, CCL3, MHC-II, and IFN-γ and upregulating Arg1 and IL-10. miR-124 also decreased microglial motility in the migration assays. The transcriptional factor of C/EBP-α-PU.1 signaling, suppressed by miR-124 both in vivo (PKD retina) and in vitro (microglial cells), could serve as a key regulator in microglial activation and polarization. Our data illustrate that miR-124 regulates microglial activation and polarization. miR-124 inhibits pericyte loss and thereby alleviates vasoregression and ameliorates neurovascular function.
Comment on    Blood. 2021 Oct 14;138(15):1331-1344.    Blood. 2021 Oct 14;138(15):1345-1358.
Regulation of the IL-5 receptor alpha (IL5RA) gene is complicated, with two known promoters (P1 and P2) driving transcription, and two known isoforms (transmembrane and soluble) dichotomously affecting the signaling potential of the protein products. Here, we sought to determine the patterns of P1 and P2 promoter usage and transcription factor occupancy during primary human eosinophil development from CD34+ hematopoietic stem cell progenitors. We found that during eosinophilopoiesis, both promoters were active but subject to distinct temporal regulation, coincident with combinatorial interactions of transcription factors, including GATA-1, PU.1, and C/EBP family members. P1 displayed a relatively constant level of activity throughout eosinophil development, while P2 activity peaked early and waned thereafter. The soluble IL-5Rα mRNA peaked early and showed the greatest magnitude fold-induction, while the signaling-competent transmembrane isoform peaked moderately. Two human eosinophilic cell lines whose relative use of P1 and P2 were similar to eosinophils differentiated in culture were used to functionally test putative transcription factor binding sites. Transcription factor occupancy was then validated in primary cultures by ChIP. We conclude that IL-5-dependent generation of eosinophils from CD34+ precursors involves complex and dynamic activity including both promoters, several interacting transcription factors, and both signaling and antagonistic protein products.
Comment in    Blood. 2022 Feb 10;139(6):807-809.
Neobavaisoflavone (Neo), is the active constituent of the herb Psoralea corylifolial, used in the traditional Chinese medicine, and has anti-inflammatory activity, but whether Neo could regulate colitis remains unclear. T helper 9 (TH9) cells, a subset of CD4+ T helper cells characterized by secretion of IL-9, have been reported to be involved in the pathogenesis of many autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, but whether Neo could control TH9 cell differentiation also remains unclear. Here, we found that Neo could decrease IL-9 production of CD4+ T cells by targeting PU.1 in vitro. Importantly, Neo had therapeutic effects on DSS-induced colitis. Furthermore, we identified TH9 cells as the direct target of Neo for attenuating bowel inflammation. Therefore, Neo could serve as a lead for developing new therapeutics against inflammatory bowel disease.
Chronic neuroinflammation is closely associated with the development of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the current study, 13 anti-neuroinflammatory compounds were isolated from Eucommia ulmoides Oliv. leaves. Among these compounds, trans-sinapaldehyde (6), 3',4',5,7-tetrahydroxy-3-methylflavone (7), and amarusine A (13) were isolated from E. ulmoides leaves for the first time. The ursane-type C29-triterpenoid, ulmoidol (ULM, 9), significantly inhibited the production of proinflammatory mediators and reduced the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Moreover, ULM inhibited the cluster of differentiation 14 (CD14)/Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway and consequently limited the activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways. Notably, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and molecular docking analyses indicated that ULM could prevent PU box binding-1 (PU.1) from binding to DNA, suggesting that PU.1 might be a potential ULM target. In conclusion, ULM alleviates neuroinflammatory responses in microglia, which could be partly explained by its targeting of PU.1 and the resulting suppression of the TLR4/MAPK/NF-κB signaling pathways. These results suggested that ULM may have therapeutic potential as an agent for treating neuroinflammation-related neurodegenerative diseases.
Altered transcription is a cardinal feature of acute myeloid leukemia (AML); however, exactly how mutations synergize to remodel the epigenetic landscape and rewire three-dimensional DNA topology is unknown. Here, we apply an integrated genomic approach to a murine allelic series that models the two most common mutations in AML: Flt3-ITD and Npm1c. We then deconvolute the contribution of each mutation to alterations of the epigenetic landscape and genome organization, and infer how mutations synergize in the induction of AML. Our studies demonstrate that Flt3-ITD signals to chromatin to alter the epigenetic environment and synergizes with mutations in Npm1c to alter gene expression and drive leukemia induction. These analyses also allow the identification of long-range cis-regulatory circuits, including a previously unknown superenhancer of Hoxa locus, as well as larger and more detailed gene-regulatory networks, driven by transcription factors including PU.1 and IRF8, whose importance we demonstrate through perturbation of network members.
Recent genetic and molecular studies have indicated that the innate immune system, especially microglia, have a crucial role in the accumulation of β-amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In particular, the CD33 receptor, also called Siglec-3, inhibits the TREM2 receptor-induced phagocytic activity of microglia. CD33 receptors recognize the α2,3 and α2,6-linked sialic groups in tissue glycocalyx, especially sialylated gangliosides in human brain. The CD33 receptor triggers cell-type specific responses, e.g., in microglia, CD33 inhibits phagocytosis, whereas in natural killer cells, it inhibits the cytotoxic activity of the NKG2D receptor. Nonetheless, the regulation of the activity of CD33 receptor needs to be clarified. For example, it seems that hypoxia/ischemia, a potential cause of AD pathology, increases the expression of CD33 and its downstream target SHP-1, a tyrosine phosphatase which suppresses the phagocytosis driven by TREM2. Moreover, hypoxia/ischemia increases the deposition of sialylated gangliosides, e.g., GM1, GM2, GM3, and GD1, which are ligands for inhibitory CD33/Siglec-3 receptors. In addition, β-amyloid peptides bind to the sialylated gangliosides in raft-like clusters and subsequently these gangliosides act as seeds for the formation of β-amyloid plaques in AD pathology. It is known that senile plaques contain sialylated GM1, GM2, and GM3 gangliosides, i.e., the same species induced by hypoxia/ischemia treatment. Sialylated gangliosides in plaques might stimulate the CD33/Siglec-3 receptors of microglia and thus impede TREM2-driven phagocytosis. We propose that hypoxia/ischemia, e.g., via the accumulation of sialylated gangliosides, prevents the phagocytosis of β-amyloid deposits by inhibiting CD33/TREM2 signaling.
BACKGROUND: Human genetic association studies point to immune response and lipid metabolism, in addition to amyloid-beta (Aβ) and tau, as major pathways in Alzheimer's disease (AD) etiology. Accumulating evidence suggests that chronic neuroinflammation, mainly mediated by microglia and astrocytes, plays a causative role in neurodegeneration in AD. Our group and others have reported early and dramatic losses of brain sulfatide in AD cases and animal models that are mediated by ApoE in an isoform-dependent manner and accelerated by Aβ accumulation. To date, it remains unclear if changes in specific brain lipids are sufficient to drive AD-related pathology.METHODS: To study the consequences of CNS sulfatide deficiency and gain insights into the underlying mechanisms, we developed a novel mouse model of adult-onset myelin sulfatide deficiency, i.e., tamoxifen-inducible myelinating glia-specific cerebroside sulfotransferase (CST) conditional knockout mice (CSTfl/fl/Plp1-CreERT), took advantage of constitutive CST knockout mice (CST-/-), and generated CST/ApoE double knockout mice (CST-/-/ApoE-/-), and assessed these mice using a broad range of methodologies including lipidomics, RNA profiling, behavioral testing, PLX3397-mediated microglia depletion, mass spectrometry (MS) imaging, immunofluorescence, electron microscopy, and Western blot.RESULTS: We found that mild central nervous system (CNS) sulfatide losses within myelinating cells are sufficient to activate disease-associated microglia and astrocytes, and to increase the expression of AD risk genes (e.g., Apoe, Trem2, Cd33, and Mmp12), as well as previously established causal regulators of the immune/microglia network in late-onset AD (e.g., Tyrobp, Dock, and Fcerg1), leading to chronic AD-like neuroinflammation and mild cognitive impairment. Notably, neuroinflammation and mild cognitive impairment showed gender differences, being more pronounced in females than males. Subsequent mechanistic studies demonstrated that although CNS sulfatide losses led to ApoE upregulation, genetically-induced myelin sulfatide deficiency led to neuroinflammation independently of ApoE. These results, together with our previous studies (sulfatide deficiency in the context of AD is mediated by ApoE and accelerated by Aβ accumulation) placed both Aβ and ApoE upstream of sulfatide deficiency-induced neuroinflammation, and suggested a positive feedback loop where sulfatide losses may be amplified by increased ApoE expression. We also demonstrated that CNS sulfatide deficiency-induced astrogliosis and ApoE upregulation are not secondary to microgliosis, and that astrogliosis and microgliosis seem to be driven by activation of STAT3 and PU.1/Spi1 transcription factors, respectively.CONCLUSION: Our results strongly suggest that sulfatide deficiency is an important contributor and driver of neuroinflammation and mild cognitive impairment in AD pathology.
AIMS: Immunoglobulin 4-related disease (IgG4-RD) is a multisystem disease, characterised by tumefactive lesions and a swift response to immunosuppressive therapy. Although elevated serum and tissue IgG4 are characteristic, T cells appear to be the primary driver of this immunologically mediated disease. The overarching goal was to examine the role of immunomodulatory cells in IgG4-RD.METHODS AND RESULTS: Biopsies from patients with IgG4-RD (n = 39) and mimics of this disease (n = 78) were evaluated for IgG4, IgG, CD8, programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and a subset (n = 18) evaluated for CD4, purine rich box 1 (PU.1), forkhead box protein 3 (FoxP3), PD-L1, programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) and lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG3). Data pertaining to demographics and laboratory findings at baseline evaluation was extracted from electronic medical records. When compared to mimics, IgG4-RD showed increased numbers of PD-L1- (P = 0.0001), PD-1- (P = 0.001), IDO1- (P = 0.03), LAG3- (P = 0.04) and FoxP3- (P = 0.04)-positive immune cells. The PD-L1-positive cells were enriched within aggregates of CD4 and CD8-positive T cells. Thirty-one of 39 (80%) IgG4-RD cases showed greater than five PD-L1-positive cells per high-power field (HPF), while four of 78 (5%) mimics of this disease exceeded this cut-point. In IgG4-RD, PD-L1-positive macrophages correlated with PD-1- (P = 0.002), LAG3- (P = 0.001) and IDO1-positive cells (P = 0.001); a-positive correlation was also noted between IgG4/IgG ratio and PD-L1-, PD-1- and IDO1-positive cells.CONCLUSIONS: IgG4-RD shows expansion of mechanisms that maintain peripheral tolerance. The spatial and temporal relationship between T cells and the PD-L1-PD-1 axis and the up-regulation of multiple immunomodulatory proteins suggests that these immunoregulatory mechanisms play a significant role in IgG4-RD.
CONTEXT: Modified BuShenYiQi formula (M-BYF) is derived from BuShenYiQi formula, used for the treatment of allergic asthma. The exact effect and mechanism of M-BYF on the improvement of asthma remain unclear.OBJECTIVE: We investigated the mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect of M-BYF on allergic asthma.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The asthma model was established in female BALB/c mice that were sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin (OVA). Mice in the treated groups were orally treated once a day with M-BYF (7, 14 and 28 g/kg/d) or dexamethasone before OVA challenge. Control and Model group received saline. Pathophysiological abnormalities and percentages of lung type 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) and Th9 cells were measured. Expression levels of type 2 cytokines and transcription factors required for these cells function and differentiation were analysed. Expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-VPAC2 signalling pathway-related proteins, and percentages of VIP expressing (VIP+) cells and VPAC2, CD90 co-expressing (VPAC2+CD90+) cells were detected.RESULTS: M-BYF alleviated airway hyperresponsiveness, inflammation, mucus hypersecretion and collagen deposition in asthmatic mice. M-BYF down-regulated percentages of ILC2s and Th9 cells with lower expression of GATA3, PU.1 and IRF4, reduced IL-5, IL-13, IL-9 and VIP production. The decrease in the expression of VIP-VPAC2 signalling pathway and percentages of VIP+ cells, VPAC2+CD90+ cells were observed after M-BYF treatment. The LD50 value of M-BYF was higher than 90 g/kg.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: M-BYF alleviated experimental asthma by negatively regulating ILC2s and Th9 cells and the VIP-VPAC2 signalling pathway. These findings provide the theoretical basis for future research of M-BYF in asthma patient population.
An1.33T4Al8Si2 (An = Ce, Th, U, Np; T = Ni, Co) were synthesized in metal flux reactions carried out in aluminum/gallium melts. In previous work, U1.33T4Al8Si2 (T = Co, Ni) analogues were formed by arc-melting U:T:Si and reacting this mixture in Al/Ga flux. However, in the current work, all compounds were synthesized by using AnO2 reactants, taking advantage of the ability of the aluminum in the flux to act as both solvent and reducing agent. While reactions with T = Co yielded hexagonal Gd1.33Fe4Si10-type quaternary phases for all An, reactions with T = Ni produced these compounds only with An = U and Np. For reactions with An = Ce and Th, the reactions led instead to the formation of AnNi3-xSixAl4-yGay phases, with the tetragonal KCu3S4 structure type. Attempts to synthesize plutonium analogues Pu1.33T4Al8Si2 were also unsuccessful, producing the previously reported PuCoGa5 and Pu2Ni5Si6 instead. Magnetic data collected on the neptunium analogues Np1.33T4Al8Si2 (T = Ni, Co) show antiferromagnetic coupling at low temperatures and indicate a tetravalent state for the Np ions.
The β decay of 241Pu to 241Am results in a significant ingrowth of Am during the interim storage of PuO2. Consequently, the safe storage of the large stockpiles of separated Pu requires an understanding of how this ingrowth affects the chemistry of PuO2. This work combines density functional theory (DFT) defect energies and empirical potential calculations of vibrational entropies to create a point defect model to predict how the defect chemistry of PuO2 evolves due to the incorporation of Am. The model predicts that Am occupies Pu sites in (Pu,Am)O2±x in either the +III or +IV oxidation state. High temperatures, low oxygen-to-metal (O/M) ratios, or low Am concentrations favor Am in the +III oxidation state. Am (+III) exists in (Pu,Am)O2±x as the negatively charged (AmPu 1-) defect, requiring charge compensation from holes in the valence band, thereby increasing the conductivity of the material compared to Am-free PuO2. Oxygen vacancies take over as the charge compensation mechanism at low O/M ratios. In (Pu,Am)O2±x , hypo- and (negligible) hyperstoichiometry is found to be provided by the doubly charged oxygen vacancy (VO 2+) and singly charged oxygen interstitial (Oi 1-), respectively.
The development and functional potential of metazoan cells is dependent on combinatorial roles of transcriptional enhancers and promoters. Macrophages provide exceptionally powerful model systems for investigation of mechanisms underlying the activation of cell-specific enhancers that drive transitions in cell fate and cell state. Here, we review recent advances that have expanded appreciation of the diversity of macrophage phenotypes in health and disease, emphasizing studies of liver, adipose tissue, and brain macrophages as paradigms for other tissue macrophages and cell types. Studies of normal tissue-resident macrophages and macrophages associated with cirrhosis, obese adipose tissue, and neurodegenerative disease illustrate the major roles of tissue environment in remodeling enhancer landscapes to specify the development and functions of distinct macrophage phenotypes. We discuss the utility of quantitative analysis of environment-dependent changes in enhancer activity states as an approach to discovery of regulatory transcription factors and upstream signaling pathways.
Epidemiologic studies showed that higher vitamin K (VK) consumption correlates with a reduced risk of osteoporosis, yet the dispute remains about whether VK is effective in improving bone mineral density (BMD). We sought to discover the anti-osteoporotic effect of menaquinone-4 (MK-4) and evaluate the expression of critical genes related to bone formation and bone resorption pathways in the body. Fifty female C57BL/6 mice (aged 13 weeks) were randomly arranged to a sham-operated group (SHAM, treated with corn oil) and four ovariectomized groups that were administered corn oil (OVX group), estradiol valerate (EV, 2 mg/kg body weight as the positive control), low or high doses of VK (LVK and HVK; 20 and 40 mg MK-4/kg body weight, respectively) by gavage every other day for 12 weeks. Body and uterine weight, serum biochemical indicators, bone microarchitecture, hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining, and the mRNA expression of critical genes related to bone formation and bone resorption pathways were assessed. Either dose of MK-4 supplementation increased the alkaline phosphatase (ALP), decreased the undercarboxylated osteocalcin (ucOC) and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRACP, p < 0.05) levels, and presented higher BMD, percent bone volume (BV/TV), trabecular thickness (Tb.Th), and lower trabecular separation (Tb.Sp) and structure model index (SMI, p < 0.05) compared with the OVX group. Additionally, both doses of MK4 increased the mRNA expression of Runx2 and Bmp2 (p < 0.05), whereas the doses down-regulated Pu.1 and Nfatc1 (p < 0.05) mRNA expression, the high dose decreased Osx and Tgfb (p < 0.05) mRNA expression, and the low dose decreased Mitd and Akt1 (p < 0.05) mRNA expression. These data show the dual regulatory effects of MK-4 on bone remodeling in ovariectomized mice: the promotion of bone anabolic activity and inhibition of osteoclast differentiation, which provides a novel idea for treating osteoporosis.
In this study we evaluated the oil adsorption capacity of an aliphatic polyurethane foam (PU 1) and two of its composites, produced through surface coating using microparticles of silica (PU-Si 2) and activated carbon (PU-ac 3). The oil adsorption capacity in diesel was improved up to 36% using the composite with silica and up to 50% using the composite with activated carbon with respect to the initial PU 1. Excellent performances were retained in gasoline and motor oil. The adsorption was complete after a few seconds. The process follows a monolayer adsorption fitted by the Langmuir isotherm, with a maximum adsorption capacity of 29.50 g/g of diesel for the composite with activated carbon (PU-ac 3). These materials were proved to be highly oleophilic for oil removal from fresh water and sea water samples. Regeneration and reuse can be repeated up to 50 times by centrifugation, without a significant loss in adsorption capacity.
Although high-fat diet (HFD) has been implicated in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC), the critical signaling molecule that mediates the cancer growth is not well-defined. Identifying the master regulator that controls CRC growth under HFD can facilitate the development of effective therapeutics for the cancer treatment. In this study, the global lipidomics and RNA sequencing data show that, in the tumor tissues of CRC-bearing mouse models, HFD not only increases tumor weight, but also the palmitic acid level and TLR4 expression, which are reduced when HFD is replaced by control diet. These concomitant changes suggest the roles of palmitic acid and TLR4 in CRC growth. Subsequent studies show that palmitic acid regulates TLR4 expression in PU.1-dependent manner. Knockdown of PU.1 or mutations of PU.1-binding site on TLR4 promoter abolish the palmitic acid-increased TLR4 expression. The role of palmitic acid/PU.1/TLR4 axis in CRC growth is further examined in cell model and animal models that are fed either HFD or palmitic acid-rich diet. More importantly, iTRAQ proteomics data show that knockdown of TLR4 changes the metabolic enzyme profiles in the tumor tissues, which completely abolish the HFD-enhanced ATP production and cancer growth. Our data clearly demonstrate that TLR4 is a master regulator for CRC growth under HFD by programming cancer metabolism.
Classical dendritic cells (cDC) are professional antigen-presenting cells (APC) that regulate immunity and tolerance. Neutrophil-derived cells with properties of DCs (nAPC) are observed in human diseases and after culture of neutrophils with cytokines. Here we show that FcγR-mediated endocytosis of antibody-antigen complexes or an anti-FcγRIIIB-antigen conjugate converts neutrophils into nAPCs that, in contrast to those generated with cytokines alone, activate T cells to levels observed with cDCs and elicit CD8+ T cell-dependent anti-tumor immunity in mice. Single cell transcript analyses and validation studies implicate the transcription factor PU.1 in neutrophil to nAPC conversion. In humans, blood nAPC frequency in lupus patients correlates with disease. Moreover, anti-FcγRIIIB-antigen conjugate treatment induces nAPCs that can activate autologous T cells when using neutrophils from individuals with myeloid neoplasms that harbor neoantigens or those vaccinated against bacterial toxins. Thus, anti-FcγRIIIB-antigen conjugate-induced conversion of neutrophils to immunogenic nAPCs may represent a possible immunotherapy for cancer and infectious diseases.
Receptor Activator of NF-κB (RANK) expressed on osteoclasts and their precursors is a receptor for RANK ligand (RANKL). Signals transduced by RANKL-RANK interaction induce genes essential for the differentiation and function of osteoclasts, partly through the direct binding of NFATc1, to target gene promoters. We have previously cloned a 6-kb fragment containing the 5'-flanking region of the mouse RANK gene and have demonstrated the presence of binding elements of hematological transcription factors, such as MITF, PU.1 and AP-1. Here, we demonstrated the presence of the functional NFATc1 responsive element on the RANK gene promoter. Transfection of an NFATc1-expression vector increased RANK mRNA that was subsequently nullified by NFATc1 knockdown. With the use of electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), an oligonucleotide (-388/-353) showed specific protein-DNA binding that was blockshifted with an anti-NFATc1 antibody and washed out with excess amounts of the cold consensus sequence. Co-transfection studies with the use of an NFATc1-expression vector and RANK promoter-reporter constructs showed that NFATc1 increased promoter activity 2-fold in RAW264.7 cells that was again nullified as disclosed by mutagenesis studies. Taken together, these results indicate that RANK transcription is positively regulated by the RANKL signal through the direct binding of NFATc1 to its specific binding site of the RANK gene promoter, and suggest the presence of a crucial positive feedback mechanism of gene expression that promotes accelerated terminal differentiation of RANK-positive committed precursors to mature osteoclasts.
Expression of Ikaros family transcription factor IKZF3 (Aiolos) increases during murine eosinophil lineage commitment and maturation. Herein, we investigated Aiolos expression and function in mature human and murine eosinophils. Murine eosinophils deficient in Aiolos demonstrated gene expression changes in pathways associated with granulocyte-mediated immunity, chemotaxis, degranulation, ERK/MAPK signaling, and extracellular matrix organization; these genes had ATAC peaks within 1 kB of the TSS that were enriched for Aiolos-binding motifs. Global Aiolos deficiency reduced eosinophil frequency within peripheral tissues during homeostasis; a chimeric mouse model demonstrated dependence on intrinsic Aiolos expression by eosinophils. Aiolos deficiency reduced eosinophil CCR3 surface expression, intracellular ERK1/2 signaling, and CCL11-induced actin polymerization, emphasizing an impaired functional response. Aiolos-deficient eosinophils had reduced tissue accumulation in chemokine-, antigen-, and IL-13-driven inflammatory experimental models, all of which at least partially depend on CCR3 signaling. Human Aiolos expression was associated with active chromatin marks enriched for IKZF3, PU.1, and GATA-1-binding motifs within eosinophil-specific histone ChIP-seq peaks. Furthermore, treating the EOL-1 human eosinophilic cell line with lenalidomide yielded a dose-dependent decrease in Aiolos. These collective data indicate that eosinophil homing during homeostatic and inflammatory allergic states is Aiolos-dependent, identifying Aiolos as a potential therapeutic target for eosinophilic disease.
Eosinophils develop in the bone marrow from hematopoietic progenitors into mature cells capable of a plethora of immunomodulatory roles via the choreographed process of eosinophilopoiesis. However, the gene regulatory elements and transcription factors (TFs) orchestrating this process remain largely unknown. The potency and resulting diversity fundamental to an eosinophil's complex immunomodulatory functions and tissue specialization likely result from dynamic epigenetic regulation of the eosinophil genome, a dynamic eosinophil regulome. In this study, we applied a global approach using broad-range, next-generation sequencing to identify a repertoire of eosinophil-specific enhancers. We identified over 8200 active enhancers located within 1-20 kB of expressed eosinophil genes. TF binding motif analysis revealed PU.1 (Spi1) motif enrichment in eosinophil enhancers, and chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with massively parallel sequencing confirmed PU.1 binding in likely enhancers of genes highly expressed in eosinophils. A substantial proportion (>25%) of these PU.1-bound enhancers were unique to murine, culture-derived eosinophils when compared among enhancers of highly expressed genes of three closely related myeloid cell subsets (macrophages, neutrophils, and immature granulocytes). Gene ontology analysis of eosinophil-specific, PU.1-bound enhancers revealed enrichment for genes involved in migration, proliferation, degranulation, and survival. Furthermore, eosinophil-specific superenhancers were enriched in genes whose homologs are associated with risk loci for eosinophilia and allergic diseases. Our collective data identify eosinophil-specific enhancers regulating key eosinophil genes through epigenetic mechanisms (H3K27 acetylation) and TF binding (PU.1).
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Nov 4;138(18):1646-1648.
Genetic association studies have identified multiple variants at the SPI1 locus that modify risk and age of onset for Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Reports linking risk variants to gene expression suggest that variants denoting higher SPI1 expression are likely to have an earlier AD onset, and several other AD risk genes contain PU.1 binding sites in the promoter region. Overall, this suggests the level of SPI1 may alter microglial phenotype potentially impacting AD. This study determined how the microglial transcriptome was altered following modest changes to Spi1 expression in primary mouse microglia. RNA-sequencing was performed on microglia with reduced or increased Spi1/PU.1 expression to provide an unbiased approach to determine transcriptomic changes affected by Spi1. In summary, a reduction in microglial Spi1 resulted in the dysregulation of transcripts encoding proteins involved in DNA replication pathways while an increased Spi1 results in an upregulation of genes associated with immune response pathways. Additionally, a subset of 194 Spi1 dose-sensitive genes was identified and pathway analysis suggests that several innate immune and interferon response pathways are impacted by the concentration of Spi1. Together these results suggest Spi1 levels can alter the microglial transcriptome and suggests interferon pathways may be altered in individuals with AD related Spi1 risk SNPs.
Th9 is a subset of CD4+ T cells that mainly secrete IL-9. Th9/IL-9 participates in immune response during Staphylococcus aureus and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia (MRSA) infection. Here, we collected bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from 30 children with MRSA pneumonia (MRSA group) and 10 children with bronchial foreign bodies (Control group). RT-PCR, ELISA and flow cytometry were used to detect the expression of miR-155 and IL-9 in BALF and the number of Th9 cells. CD4+ T cells isolated from BALF of MRSA and Control group were transfected with miR-155 mimic or inhibitor, and then induced Th9 cell differentiation. The results showed that the expression of miR-155 and IL-9 were significantly increased in BALF and Th9 cell of MRSA group, as well as the number of Th9 cells. miR-155 mimic upregulated IL-9 mRNA expression, IL-9 secretion and increased number of Th9 cells. On the contrary, miR-155 inhibitor inhibited IL-9 mRNA expression, IL-9 secretion and decreased number of Th9 cells. The dual luciferase assays demonstrated miR-155 can target binding to SIRT1 3'UTR. Moreover, overexpression of SIRT1 could reverse the effect of miR-155 mimic on IL-9 expression level, Th9 cell number and transcription factors PU.1 and IRF4 expression. In conclusion, miR-155 regulates Th9 differentiation in children with MRSA by targeting SIRT1.
Sepsis-induced myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) increase mortality risk. We previously identified that long non-coding RNA Hotairm1 supports myeloid precursor shifts to Gr1+CD11b+ MDSCs during mouse sepsis. A major unanswered question is what molecular processes control Hotairm1 expression. In this study, we found by a genetic deletion that a specific PU.1-binding site is indispensable in controlling Hotairm1 transcription. We then identified H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 at the PU.1 site on the Hotairm1 promoter. Controlling an epigenetic switch of Hotairm1 transcription by PU.1 was histone KDM6A demethylase for H3K27me3 that derepressed its transcription with possible contributions from Ezh2 methyltransferase for H3K27me3. KDM6A knockdown in MDSCs increased H3K27me3, decreased H3K4me3, and inhibited Hotairm1 transcription activation by PU.1. These results enlighten clinical translation research of PU.1 epigenetic regulation as a potential sepsis immune-checkpoint treatment site.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in regulating various biological processes, such as cell differentiation and immune modulation by binding to their target genes. miR-223 is a miRNA with important functions and has been widely investigated in recent years. Under certain physiological conditions, miR-223 is regulated by different transcription factors, including sirtuin1 (Sirt1), PU.1 and Mef2c, and its biological functions are mediated through changes in its cellular or tissue expression. This review paper summarizes miR-223 biosynthesis and its regulatory role in the differentiation of granulocytes, dendritic cells (DCs) and lymphocytes, macrophage polarization, and endothelial and epithelial inflammation. In addition, it describes the molecular mechanisms of miR-223 in regulating lung inflammation, rheumatoid arthritis, enteritis, neuroinflammation and mastitis to provide insights into the existing molecular regulatory networks and therapies for inflammatory diseases in humans and animals.
Congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type I (CDA I) is an autosomal recessive disease characterized by moderate to severe macrocytic anemia and pathognomonic morphologic abnormalities of the erythroid precursors, including spongy heterochromatin. The disease is mainly caused by mutations in CDAN1 (encoding for Codanin-1). No patients with homozygous null type mutations have been described, and mouse null mutants die during early embryogenesis prior to the initiation of erythropoiesis. The cellular functions of Codanin-1 and the erythroid specificity of the phenotype remain elusive. To investigate the role of Codanin-1 in erythropoiesis, we crossed mice carrying the Cdan1 floxed allele (Cdan fl/fl ) with mice expressing Cre-recombinase under regulation of the erythropoietin receptor promoter (ErGFPcre). The resulting CdanΔEry transgenic embryos died at mid-gestation (E12.5-E13.5) from severe anemia, with very low numbers of circulating erythroblast. Transmission electron microscopy studies of primitive erythroblasts (E9.5) revealed the pathognomonic spongy heterochromatin. The morphology of CdanΔEry primitive erythroblasts demonstrated progressive development of dyserythropoiesis. Annexin V staining showed increases in both early and late-apoptotic erythroblasts compared to controls. Flow cytometry studies using the erythroid-specific cell-surface markers CD71 and Ter119 demonstrated that CdanΔEry erythroid progenitors do not undergo the semi-synchronous maturation characteristic of primitive erythroblasts. Gene expression studies aimed to evaluate the effect of Cdan1 depletion on erythropoiesis revealed a delay of ζ to α globin switch compared to controls. We also found increased expression of Gata2, Pu.1, and Runx1, which are known to inhibit terminal erythroid differentiation. Consistent with this data, our zebrafish model showed increased gata2 expression upon cdan1 knockdown. In summary, we demonstrated for the first time that Cdan1 is required for primitive erythropoiesis, while providing two experimental models for studying the role of Codanin-1 in erythropoiesis and in the pathogenesis of CDA type I.
Mutations in the transcription factor C/EBPα are found in ~10% of all acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) cases but the contribution of these mutations to leukemogenesis is incompletely understood. We here use a mouse model of granulocyte progenitors expressing conditionally active HoxB8 to assess the cell biological and molecular activity of C/EBPα-mutations associated with human AML. Both N-terminal truncation and C-terminal AML-associated mutations of C/EBPα substantially altered differentiation of progenitors into mature neutrophils in cell culture. Closer analysis of the C/EBPα-K313-duplication showed expansion and prolonged survival of mutant C/EBPα-expressing granulocytes following adoptive transfer into mice. C/EBPα-protein containing the K313-mutation further showed strongly enhanced transcriptional activity compared with the wild-type protein at certain promoters. Analysis of differentially regulated genes in cells overexpressing C/EBPα-K313 indicates a strong correlation with genes regulated by C/EBPα. Analysis of transcription factor enrichment in the differentially regulated genes indicated a strong reliance of SPI1/PU.1, suggesting that despite reduced DNA binding, C/EBPα-K313 is active in regulating target gene expression and acts largely through a network of other transcription factors. Strikingly, the K313 mutation caused strongly elevated expression of C/EBPα-protein, which could also be seen in primary K313 mutated AML blasts, explaining the enhanced C/EBPα activity in K313-expressing cells.
BACKGROUND: Single-cell technologies are transforming biomedical research, including the recent demonstration that unspliced pre-mRNA present in single-cell RNA-Seq permits prediction of future expression states. Here we apply this RNA velocity concept to an extended timecourse dataset covering mouse gastrulation and early organogenesis.RESULTS: Intriguingly, RNA velocity correctly identifies epiblast cells as the starting point, but several trajectory predictions at later stages are inconsistent with both real-time ordering and existing knowledge. The most striking discrepancy concerns red blood cell maturation, with velocity-inferred trajectories opposing the true differentiation path. Investigating the underlying causes reveals a group of genes with a coordinated step-change in transcription, thus violating the assumptions behind current velocity analysis suites, which do not accommodate time-dependent changes in expression dynamics. Using scRNA-Seq analysis of chimeric mouse embryos lacking the major erythroid regulator Gata1, we show that genes with the step-changes in expression dynamics during erythroid differentiation fail to be upregulated in the mutant cells, thus underscoring the coordination of modulating transcription rate along a differentiation trajectory. In addition to the expected block in erythroid maturation, the Gata1-chimera dataset reveals induction of PU.1 and expansion of megakaryocyte progenitors. Finally, we show that erythropoiesis in human fetal liver is similarly characterized by a coordinated step-change in gene expression.CONCLUSIONS: By identifying a limitation of the current velocity framework coupled with in vivo analysis of mutant cells, we reveal a coordinated step-change in gene expression kinetics during erythropoiesis, with likely implications for many other differentiation processes.
PU.1 (encoded by Spi1), an ETS-family transcription factor with many hematopoietic roles, is highly expressed in the earliest intrathymic T cell progenitors but must be down-regulated during T lineage commitment. The transcription factors Runx1 and GATA3 have been implicated in this Spi1 repression, but the basis of the timing was unknown. We show that increasing Runx1 and/or GATA3 down-regulates Spi1 expression in pro-T cells, while deletion of these factors after Spi1 down-regulation reactivates its expression. Leveraging the stage specificities of repression and transcription factor binding revealed an unconventional but functional site in Spi1 intron 2. Acute Cas9-mediated deletion or disruption of the Runx and GATA motifs in this element reactivates silenced Spi1 expression in a pro-T cell line, substantially more than disruption of other candidate elements, and counteracts the repression of Spi1 in primary pro-T cells during commitment. Thus, Runx1 and GATA3 work stage specifically through an intronic silencing element in mouse Spi1 to control strength and maintenance of Spi1 repression during T lineage commitment.
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection induces dysfunction of immune response and chronic liver damage. However, the mechanisms that account for HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are poorly understood. The aim of present study was to investigate the modulatory role of interleukin (IL)-35, an immunosuppressive cytokine, to IL-9-secreting T cells in hepatitis B-related HCC. Twenty-two HBV-related HCC patients, twenty-seven chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients, and eleven controls were enrolled. Serum IL-35 and IL-9 concentration was measured by ELISA. Peripheral and liver-infiltrating non-specific and HBV-specific Th9 and Tc9 cells were assessed by flow cytometry. The regulatory activity of IL-35 to peripheral and liver-infiltrating Th9 cells was assessed in co-culture system between CD8+ T cells and HepG2.2.15 cells. Serum IL-35 was up-regulated, while IL-9 was down-regulated in HBV-related HCC patients compared with in CHB patients and controls. Peripheral non-specific and HBV-specific Th9 cells, but not Tc9 cells, were decreased in HBV-related HCC patients. Liver-infiltrating non-specific and HBV-specific Th9 cells were also reduced in HCC tumor sites. CD8+ T cells from CHB and HBV-related HCC patients revealed decreased cytotoxicity compared with those from controls. Autologous Th9 cells mediated the elevation of CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity, and this process was depending on IL-9 secretion. Recombinant IL-35 stimulation inhibited IL-9 secretion and PU.1 mRNA expression in non-specific and HBV-specific Th9 cells, leading to the suppression of Th9-mediated CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity in CHB and HBV-related HCC patients. Our current data indicated that IL-35 might dampen non-specific and HBV-specific Th9 cells activity in HBV-related HCC patients.
The factors/mechanisms regulating multipotent or bipotent hematopoietic progenitor cells lineage-commitment are not well understood. In this study, we found that prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is a crucial physiological regulator of lineage choice for the bipotential monocyte-dendritic progenitor cell (MDP). Inhibition of endogenous PGE2 biosynthesis in mice by the dual cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin, enhances bone marrow and spleen monocyte (MO) differentiation and reduces dendritic cell (DC) differentiation. Ex vivo treatment of purified MDP with indomethacin preferentially increases MO development at the expense of DC generation, whereas addition of exogenous PGE2 reverses the indomethacin-mediated alteration in MDP differentiation potential. Treatment of MDP with selective EP receptor agonists demonstrated that EP1 signaling promotes MDP differentiation into DC at the expense of MO generation. Conversely, EP1 receptor knockout mice showed reduced DC and increased MO differentiation. Mechanistic studies revealed that PGE2 increases expression of the tyrosine kinase receptor Flt3 on MDP and increases the DC-lineage-related transcription factor PU.1, while reducing expression of M-CSFR and the MO-lineage-related transcription factor MafB. These data indicate that PGE2-EP1 signaling plays a critical role in MDP lineage commitment and DC and MO differentiation.
Fibrosis serves a critical role in driving atrial remodelling-mediated atrial fibrillation (AF). Abnormal levels of the transcription factor PU.1, a key regulator of fibrosis, are associated with cardiac injury and dysfunction following acute viral myocarditis. However, the role of PU.1 in atrial fibrosis and vulnerability to AF remain unclear. Here, an in vivo atrial fibrosis model was developed by the continuous infusion of C57 mice with subcutaneous Ang-II, while the in vitro model comprised atrial fibroblasts that were isolated and cultured. The expression of PU.1 was significantly up-regulated in the Ang-II-induced group compared with the sham/control group in vivo and in vitro. Moreover, protein expression along the TGF-β1/Smads pathway and the proliferation and differentiation of atrial fibroblasts induced by Ang-II were significantly higher in the Ang-II-induced group than in the sham/control group. These effects were attenuated by exposure to DB1976, a PU.1 inhibitor, both in vivo and in vitro. Importantly, in vitro treatment with small interfering RNA against Smad3 (key protein of TGF-β1/Smads signalling pathway) diminished these Ang-II-mediated effects, and the si-Smad3-mediated effects were, in turn, antagonized by the addition of a PU.1-overexpression adenoviral vector. Finally, PU.1 inhibition reduced the atrial fibrosis induced by Ang-II and attenuated vulnerability to AF, at least in part through the TGF-β1/Smads pathway. Overall, the study implicates PU.1 as a potential therapeutic target to inhibit Ang-II-induced atrial fibrosis and vulnerability to AF.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Oct 7;138(14):1199-1200.
BACKGROUND: Hematopoietic stem cells' commitment to myelopoiesis builds immunity to prevent infection. This process is controlled through transcription factor, especially Purine rich box 1 (PU.1) protein, which plays a central role in regulating myelopoiesis. The β3/β4 region of PU.1 accommodates a coactivator transcription factor, c-Jun, to activate myelopoiesis. However, an erythroid transcription factor, GATA-1, competes with c-Jun for the β3/β4 region, abolishing myelopoiesis and promoting erythropoiesis. This competitive regulation decides the hematopoietic stem cells' commitment towards either erythroid or myeloid lineage.METHODS: Therefore, this study investigated the in vitro and in vivo effect of novel synthetic PU.1 β3/β4 mimic peptide analogs and peptide-loaded hydrophilic poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) nanoparticles.RESULTS: The designed peptides significantly increase the expression of corresponding myeloid markers, specifically CD33 in vitro. However, the in vivo delivery of peptide-loaded PLGA nanoparticles, which have sustained release effect of peptides, increases 10.8% of granulocytes as compared to control.CONCLUSION: The observations showed that the fabricated nanoparticles protected the loaded peptides from the harsh intracellular environment for a longer duration without causing any toxicity. These findings highlight the possibility to use these peptides and peptide-loaded nanoparticles to increase hematopoietic stem cell commitment to myeloid cells in case of opportunistic infection.
The term 'macrophage' encompasses tissue cells that typically share dependence on the same transcriptional regulatory pathways (e.g. the transcription factor PU.1) and growth factors (e.g. CSF1/IL-34). They share a core set of functions that largely arise from a uniquely high phagocytic capacity manifest in their ability to clear dying cells, pathogens and scavenge damaged, toxic or modified host molecules. However, macrophages demonstrate a remarkable degree of tissue-specific functionality and have diverse origins that vary by tissue site and inflammation status. With our understanding of this diversity has come an appreciation of the longevity and replicative capacity of tissue-resident macrophages and thus the realisation that macrophages may persist through tissue perturbations and inflammatory events with important consequences for cell function. Here, we discuss our current understanding of the parameters that regulate macrophage survival and function, focusing on the relative importance of the tissue environment versus cell-intrinsic factors, such as origin, how long a cell has been resident within a tissue and prior history of activation. Thus, we reconsider the view of macrophages as wholly plastic cells and raise many unanswered questions about the relative importance of cell life-history versus environment in macrophage programming and function.
OBJECTIVE: Macrophages mediate inflammation, angiogenesis, and tissue destruction in giant cell arteritis (GCA). Serum levels of the macrophage-associated protein YKL-40 (chitinase 3-like protein 1), previously linked to angiogenesis and tissue remodeling, remain elevated in GCA despite glucocorticoid treatment. This study was undertaken to investigate the contribution of YKL-40 to vasculopathy in GCA.METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was performed on GCA temporal artery biopsy specimens (n = 12) and aortas (n = 10) for detection of YKL-40, its receptor interleukin-13 receptor α2 (IL-13Rα2), macrophage markers PU.1 and CD206, and the tissue-destructive protein matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9). Ten noninflamed temporal artery biopsy specimens served as controls. In vitro experiments with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)- or macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF)-skewed monocyte-derived macrophages were conducted to study the dynamics of YKL-40 production. Next, small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of YKL-40 in GM-CSF-skewed macrophages was performed to study its effect on MMP-9 production. Finally, the angiogenic potential of YKL-40 was investigated by tube formation experiments using human microvascular endothelial cells (HMVECs).RESULTS: YKL-40 was abundantly expressed by a CD206+MMP-9+ macrophage subset in inflamed temporal arteries and aortas. GM-CSF-skewed macrophages from GCA patients, but not healthy controls, released significantly higher levels of YKL-40 compared to M-CSF-skewed macrophages (P = 0.039). In inflamed temporal arteries, IL-13Rα2 was expressed by macrophages and endothelial cells. Functionally, knockdown of YKL-40 led to a 10-50% reduction in MMP-9 production by macrophages, whereas exposure of HMVECS to YKL-40 led to significantly increased tube formation.CONCLUSION: In GCA, a GM-CSF-skewed, CD206+MMP-9+ macrophage subset expresses high levels of YKL-40 which may stimulate tissue destruction and angiogenesis through IL-13Rα2 signaling. Targeting YKL-40 or GM-CSF may inhibit macrophages that are currently insufficiently suppressed by glucocorticoids.
S100 calcium-binding protein A8 (S100A8) and S100A9 are small molecular weight calcium-binding regulatory proteins that have been involved in multiple chronic inflammatory diseases. However, the role of S100A8 and S100A9 in keratinocytes in wounded skin and how they are regulated during this process are still unclear. Here, we found that S100A8 and S100A9 were both upregulated in burn-wounded skins in vivo and thermal-stimulated epidermal keratinocytes in vitro, accompanied by increased levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Then, we demonstrated that upregulation of S100A8 and S100A9 alone or together enhanced characteristics of EMT in normal keratinocytes, manifested by excessive proliferation rate, abnormal ability of cell invasion, and high expression levels of EMT marker proteins. The transcription factor PU box-binding protein (PU.1) bound to the promoter regions and transcriptionally promoted the expression of S100A8 and S100A9 both in the human and mice, and it had strong positive correlations with both S100A8 and S100A9 protein levels in burned skin in vivo. Moreover, PU.1 positively regulated expression of S100A8 and S100A9 in a dose-dependent manner, and enhanced EMT of keratinocytes in vitro. Finally, through the burn mouse model, we found that PU.1-/- mice displayed a lower ability of scar formation, manifested by smaller scar volume, thickness, and collagen content, which could be enhanced by S100A8 and S100A9. In conclusion, PU.1 transcriptionally promotes expression of S100A8 and S100A9, thus positively regulating epithelial-mesenchymal transformation (EMT) and invasive growth of dermal keratinocytes during scar formation post burn.
Erratum for    Clin Exp Med. 2021 Nov;21(4):621-632.
Distinct T helper cells, including Th9 cells help maintain homeostasis in the immune system. Vitamins play pivotal role in the immune system through many mechanisms, including regulating the differentiation of T helper cells. Calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3) and retinoic acid possess hormone-like properties and are the bioactive metabolites of vitamin D and A, respectively, that signal through heterodimers containing the common retinoid X receptor. In contrast to individual treatment with the vitamins that significantly attenuates IL-9 production from Th9 cells, Th9 cells treated with both vitamins demonstrated IL-9 production similar to untreated Th9 cells. This is associated with reciprocal expression of PU.1 and Foxp3. While the recruitment of PU.1 was significantly impaired to the Il9 gene in the presence of calcitriol or retinoic acid in Th9 cells, addition of both vitamins together increased the recruitment of PU.1 to the Il9 gene. Calcitriol and retinoic acid together impaired the recruitment of HDAC1 to the Il9 gene without impacting Gcn5 recruitment. Importantly, retinoic acid negated the effect of calcitriol and impaired the binding of VDR on the Il9 gene by dampened VDR-RXR formation. Collectively, our data show that calcitriol and retinoic acid antagonize each other to regulate the differentiation of Th9 cells.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a leading cause of end-stage renal failure. The study aimed to investigate whether long noncoding RNA taurine-upregulated gene 1 (TUG1) can ameliorate the endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) and apoptosis of renal tubular epithelial cells in DN, and the underlying mechanism. The DN mouse model was established by streptozocin injection, and the human renal tubular epithelial cell line HK-2 was treated with high glucose (HG) to mimic DN in vitro. The molecular mechanism was explored through dual-luciferase activity assay, RNA pull-down assay, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and chromatin immunoprecipitation (CHIP) assay. The expression of TUG1 was significantly decreased in the renal tubules of DN model mice. Overexpression of TUG1 reduced the levels of ERS markers and apoptosis markers by inhibiting reticulon-1 (RTN1) expression in HG-induced HK-2 cells. Furthermore, TUG1 down-regulated RTN1 expression by inhibiting the binding of transcription factor PU.1 to the RTN1 promoter, thereby reducing the levels of ERS markers and apoptosis markers. Meanwhile, TUG1-overexpression adenovirus plasmids injection significantly alleviated tubular lesions, and reduced RTN1 expression, ERS markers and apoptosis markers, whereas these results were reversed by injection of PU.1-overexpression adenovirus plasmids. TUG1 restrains the ERS and apoptosis of renal tubular epithelial cells and ameliorates DN through inhibition of transcription factor PU.1.
The inventories of 137Cs (503 ± 34 Bq.m-2), 241Am (11.3 ± 1.2 Bq.m-2), 241Pu (33.7 ± 3.4 Bq.m-2), 238Pu (6.82 ± 0.87 Bq.m-2) and 239+240Pu (113.0 ± 5.9 Bq.m-2), sum of 239Pu (100 ± 11 Bq.m-2) and 240Pu (14.5 ± 1.7 Bq.m-2), in the Gambier archipelago (23°S) of the French Polynesia, are well higher the global fallout at this latitude, in unequal proportions for the different radionuclides. (240Pu/239Pu)AR (AR: atomic ratio) of 0.0394 ± 0.0062, and (241Pu/239Pu)AR of (2.03 ± 0.39)10-4, confirm that the overwhelmingly dominant source of these radionuclides comes from local fallout during the 1970s of the French atmospheric tests of Moruroa and Fangataufa located nearly 400 km from Gambier. The signatures of the local fallout were deduced from the excess of its inventory in 137Cs and from the mixing lines established from the signatures of the global fallout, some of the test sites and the isotopic ratios measured in Gambier. Signatures obtained are 2.0 ± 0.4 for 137Cs/239+240Pu, 0.045 ± 0.008 for 238Pu/239+240Pu, 0.031 ± 0.009 for 241Am/239+240Pu, 0.092 ± 0.027 for 241Pu/239+240Pu, 0.0163 ± 0.0049 for (240Pu/239Pu)AR, (0.78 ± 0.23)10-4 for (241Pu/239Pu)AR. The concordance of the mixing lines of the [(240Pu/239Pu)AR, (241Pu/239Pu)AR] and the linear regression of these ratios measured in the stratosphere (40°S) during the 1970s, indicates that the signatures of the close-in deposition are also those of the stratospheric injections of the French tests. The signatures of stratospheric fallout in the Southern Hemisphere were evaluated by considering that the fission energy of these injections represents 11% and that of the Northern Hemisphere represents 89% and that the isotopic ratios of stratospheric injections remained the same over the period 1970-1974. The activity ratios deducted are 21.9 ± 0.1 in 137Cs/239+240Pu, 0.11 ± 0.05 in 238Pu/239+240Pu, 1.03 ± 0.12 in 241Pu/239+240Pu and 0.35 ± 0.04 in 241Am/239+240Pu. The associated atom ratios are 0.157 ± 0.011 for (240Pu/239Pu)AR and (8.33 ± 0.48)10-4 for (241Pu/239Pu)AR. These signatures appear to be consistent with the results of the inventories at Hiva Oa, located more than 1,000 km north of both French test sites, and with those found in the Australian continent, in regions not impacted by UK-test debris. The proportions of close-in tropospheric fallout from the French tests are about 90% in Gambier. They represent a proportion in the inventories of 40% for the 137Cs, 60% for 241Am and in the range between 80 and 90% for Pu isotopes.
There is an unmet need to overcome nongenetic therapy-resistance to improve outcomes in AML, especially post-myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) secondary (s) AML. Studies presented describe effects of genetic knockout, degradation or small molecule targeted-inhibition of GFI1/LSD1 on active enhancers, altering gene-expressions and inducing differentiation and lethality in AML and (MPN) sAML cells. A protein domain-focused CRISPR screen in LSD1 (KDM1A) inhibitor (i) treated AML cells, identified BRD4, MOZ, HDAC3 and DOT1L among the codependencies. Our findings demonstrate that co-targeting LSD1 and one of these co-dependencies exerted synergistic in vitro lethality in AML and post-MPN sAML cells. Co-treatment with LSD1i and the JAKi ruxolitinib was also synergistically lethal against post-MPN sAML cells. LSD1i pre-treatment induced GFI1, PU.1 and CEBPα but depleted c-Myc, overcoming nongenetic resistance to ruxolitinib, or to BETi in post-MPN sAML cells. Co-treatment with LSD1i and BETi or ruxolitinib exerted superior in vivo efficacy against post-MPN sAML cells. These findings highlight LSD1i-based combinations that merit testing for clinical efficacy, especially to overcome nongenetic therapy-resistance in AML and post-MPN sAML.
The transcription factors (TFs) that regulate inducible genes in activated neutrophils are not yet completely characterized. Herein, we show that the genomic distribution of the histone modification H3K27Ac, as well as PU.1 and C/EBPβ, two myeloid-lineage-determining TFs (LDTFs), significantly changes in human neutrophils treated with R848, a ligand of Toll-like receptor 8 (TLR8). Interestingly, differentially acetylated and LDTF-marked regions reveal an over-representation of OCT-binding motifs that are selectively bound by OCT2/POU2F2. Analysis of OCT2 genomic distribution in primary neutrophils and of OCT2-depletion in HL-60-differentiated neutrophils proves the requirement for OCT2 in contributing to promote, along with nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and activator protein 1 (AP-1), the TLR8-induced gene expression program in neutrophils. Altogether, our data demonstrate that neutrophils, upon activation via TLR8, profoundly reprogram their chromatin status, ultimately displaying cell-specific, prolonged transcriptome changes. Data also show an unexpected role for OCT2 in amplifying the transcriptional response to TLR8-mediated activation.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Oct 14;138(15):1289-1291.
PURPOSE: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of blindness in developed countries, in which microglial activation is involved. However, the mechanism of microglial activation in DR remains largely unknown.METHODS: We used Cx3cr1CreERT2; Sykfl/fl mice to knockout microglial spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) in the retina of mice (cKO mice) after streptozotocin injection to induce diabetes. We also isolated primary retinal microglia from wild-type and cKO mice, respectively, to explore the role of microglial Syk in DR.RESULTS: The deletion of microglial Syk in the retina of mice or in the primary retinal microglia inhibited microglial activation and inflammatory response, eventually leading to the improvement of DR by regulating the expressions of interferon regulatory factor 8 (Irf8) and Pu.1 both in vivo and in vitro.CONCLUSIONS: The deletion of microglial Syk in the retina effectively ameliorated microglial activation-induced DR, suggesting the potential of microglial Syk as a therapeutic target for DR.TRANSLATIONAL RELEVANCE: Microglial spleen tyrosine kinase might serve as a potential therapeutic target for diabetic retinopathy.
Acute myeloid leukemia is characterized by abnormal differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells, leading to the accumulation of immature myeloid cells. Differentiation therapy has been a successful treatment option for acute promyelocytic leukemia but suffers from adverse effects. Therefore, search for novel differentiation-inducing agents with minimal side effects is desirable. Securinine, a naturally-occurring alkaloid, induces differentiation in various leukemic cells and apoptosis in other types of cancers. However, the underlying molecular mechanism(s) remain elusive. Our study aimed to elucidate the possible molecular mechanism(s) and signaling events involved in securinine-induced differentiation of HL-60 cells. Securinine inhibited proliferation in a time- and dose-dependent manner and triggered differentiation. A higher CD14+ population indicated maturation toward monocytic lineage. Securinine caused cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase and enhanced ROS generation. Quantitative gene expression analysis showed significant down-regulation of C/EBP-α, C/EBP-ε, GAΤΑ, and c-myc and up-regulation of the PU.1 gene. The expression of distinct protein kinases Lyn, Chk-2, Yes, FAK, c-Jun, and JNK were enhanced. Use of specific inhibitors of crucial intracellular signaling proteins indicated that JNK and ERK blockade resulted in a significant decline in differentiation. These data thus confirm that securinine induces differentiation through the activation of the JNK-ERK signaling pathway in HL-60 cells.
IL-9-producing Th9 cells display a group of helper T cells with similarities to Th17 and Th2 T cells and have been shown to be involved in synovial inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. So far, it is unclear which parameters drive Th9 differentiation in lymphocytes derived from RA patients compared to immunologically healthy individuals and whether autocrine mechanisms are able to enhance Th9 polarization. Further, parallel pathways of induction of IL-17-producing cells with Th9 phenotype have to be distinguished from exclusively Th9-inductive mechanisms. Thus, the present study aimed to determine the parameters of Th9 induction by simulation in a standardized inflammatory cytokine milieu.Peripheral naive and non-naive T cells of RA patients and healthy donors (HD) were cultured under Th9 and Th17-driving conditions and phenotypically analyzed by flow cytometry and molecular analysis.Our findings indicate a similar differentiation pathway of Th9 and Th17 cells and similar distributions of IL-9+ T cells in RA and HD regardless of Th9- or Th17-promoting cytokine milieus. Whereas the magnitude and direction of Th9- or Th17-polarization was about the same in RA and HD, IL-17+ CD4+ T cells were significantly stimulated by Th17-inducing conditions in HD. In conclusion, the results indicate that Th9- and Th17-inducing cytokine conditions mimicking autoimmune inflammation in RA may have similar stimulatory effects regarding polarization of peripheral naive and non-naive T cells into Th9 or Th17 cells. The results suggest that the differentiation of Th9 cells may be also induced by Th17-driving conditions.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Oct 14;138(15):1289-1291.
Purpose/aim of the study Secondary spinal cord injury is the inflammatory damage to surrounding tissues caused by activated microglial-mediated neuroinflammatory responses. The nuclear factor-κB (p65/p50) pathway and PU.1 are closely correlated with inflammatory responses; thus, we examined the relationship and function between PU.1 and p50 in secondary spinal cord injury.Materials and methods In this study, we established an adult rat acute spinal cord injury model to simulate the pathological process of spinal cord injury.Results: We found that the expression of PU.1 was significantly increased at three days after spinal cord injury and mainly expressed in activated microglia. Moreover, p-p50 expression was increased in SCI rats and the protein interacted with PU.1. Lipopolysaccharide was used to induce microglia activation in vitro.Conclusions: The results showed that PU.1 and p-p50 expression was significantly increased and PU.1 interacted with p50 in the nucleus. The levels of tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β secreted by microglia were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results showed that when both PU.1 and p50 were overexpressed, tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-1β secretion was significantly increased to levels higher than in cells overexpressing PU.1 or p50 alone. These results suggest that PU.1 and p50 interact to promote p65 transcription and the expression of inflammatory factors, which is an important mechanism of the microglial-mediated inflammatory response to secondary injury after spinal cord injury.
Erratum in    Clin Exp Med. 2021 Jun 5;:
Comment in    J Exp Med. 2021 Jul 5;218(7):
The steroid hormones are required for gonadal development in fish. The present study was undertaken to characterize the cDNA and promoter sequences of TSPO and SMAD4 genes in yellow catfish Pelteobagrus fulvidraco, explored the mRNA tissue expression and deciphered their promoter regions. Yellow catfish TSPO and SMAD4 shared the similar domains to the corresponding genes from other vertebrates. The TSPO and SMAD4 mRNAs were widely expressed in the detected tissues, but at different levels. Several transcription factors were predicted, such as Sp, GATA, AP1, SOX1, SRY, STAT, HNF4α, PPARγ, Pu.1 and FOXL2. PPARγ overexpression increased but STAT3 overexpression reduced TSPO promoter activity, and FOXL2 overexpression inhibited the promoter activity of TSPO and SMAD4. The site mutation and EMSA analysis indicated that TSPO promoter possessed STAT3 and FOXL2 sites. Overall, our provided the novel understanding into the transcriptionally regulatory mechanisms of TSPO and SMAD4 in fish.
Cardiac sarcoidosis (CS) is a poorly understood disease and is characterized by the focal accumulation of immune cells, thus leading to the formation of granulomata (GL). To identify the developmental principles of fatal GL, fluorescence microscopy and Western blot analysis of CS and control patients is presented here. CS is visualized macroscopically by positron emission tomography (PET)/ computed tomography (CT). A battery of antibodies is used to determine structural, cell cycle and inflammatory markers. GL consist of CD68+, CD163+ and CD206+ macrophages surrounded by T-cells within fibrotic areas. Cell cycle markers such as phospho-histone H3, phospho-Aurora and Ki67 were moderately present; however, the phosphorylated ERM (ezrin, radixin and moesin) and Erk1/2 proteins, strong expression of the myosin motor protein and the macrophage transcription factor PU.1 indicate highly active GL. Mild apoptosis is consistent with PI3 kinase and Akt activation. Massive amounts of the IL-1R antagonist reflect a mild activation of stress and inflammatory pathways in GL. High levels of oncostatin M and the Reg3A and Reg3γ chemokines are in accordance with macrophage accumulation in areas of remodeling cardiomyocytes. We conclude that the formation of GL occurs mainly through chemoattraction and less by proliferation of macrophages. Furthermore, activation of the oncostatin/Reg3 axis might help at first to wall-off substances but might initiate the chronic development of heart failure.
NLRP3 inflammasomes play crucial roles in the initiation of host defense by converting pro-Caspase-1 to mature Caspase-1, which in turn processes immature IL-1β and IL-18 into their biologically active forms. Although NLRP3 expression is restricted to monocytic lineages such as monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells, the mechanisms determining the lineage-specific expression of NLRP3 remain largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the transcription factors involved in cell-type-specific transcription of NLRP3. We found that a distal, rather than a proximal, promoter of human NLRP3 was predominantly used in the human monocytic cell lines and macrophages. Reporter analysis showed that an Ets/IRF composite element (EICE) at -309/-300 and an Ets motif at +5/+8 were critical for transcriptional activity of the distal promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that two transcription factors, PU.1 and IRF8, both of which play essential roles in development and gene expression of the monocytic lineage, were bound to the EICE site, whereas PU.1 alone was bound to the Ets site. Knockdown of PU.1 and/or IRF8 mediated by small interfering RNA downregulated expression of NLRP3 and related molecules and markedly diminished the LPS-induced release of IL-1β in THP-1, suggesting that activity of the NLRP3 inflammasome was suppressed by knockdown of PU.1 and IRF8. Taken together, these results indicate that PU.1 and IRF8 are involved in the monocytic lineage-specific expression of NLRP3 by binding to regulatory elements within its promoter and that PU.1 and IRF8 are potential targets for regulating the activity of the NLRP3 inflammasome.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate upstream and downstream regulators leading to macrophage activation and subsequent cytokine storm in patients with anti-melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (MDA5) antibody-associated interstitial lung disease (ILD).METHODS: We conducted an integrated miRNA-mRNA association analysis using circulating monocytes from 3 patients with anti-MDA5-associated ILD and 3 healthy controls and identified disease pathways and a regulator effect network by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA). The expression of relevant genes and proteins was verified using an independent validation cohort, including 6 patients with anti-MDA5-associated ILD, 5 with anti-aminoacyl tRNA synthetase antibody-associated ILD, and 6 healthy controls.RESULTS: IPA identified 26 matched pairs of downregulated miRNA and upregulated mRNAs and revealed that canonical pathways mediated by type I IFN signalling and C-C motif ligand 2 (CCL2) were responsible for the pathogenic process (P < 0.05 for all pathways). The regulatory network model identified IFN-β; Toll-like receptors 3, 7, and 9; and PU.1 as upstream regulators, while the downstream effect of this network converged at the inhibition of viral infection. mRNA and protein expression analysis using validation cohort showed a trend towards the increased expression of relevant molecules identified by IPA in patients with anti-MDA5-associated ILD compared with those with anti-aminoacyl tRNA synthetase antibody-associated ILD or healthy controls. The expression of all relevant genes in monocytes and serum levels of CCL2 and IFN-β declined after treatment in survivors with anti-MDA5-associated ILD.CONCLUSION: An antiviral proinflammatory network orchestrated primarily by activated monocytes/macrophages might be responsible for cytokine storm in anti-MDA5-associated ILD.
Comment in    Dev Cell. 2021 May 17;56(10):1359-1360.
Neutrophils play fundamental roles in innate immune response, shape adaptive immunity, and are a potentially causal cell type underpinning genetic associations with immune system traits and diseases. Here, we profile the binding of myeloid master regulator PU.1 in primary neutrophils across nearly a hundred volunteers. We show that variants associated with differential PU.1 binding underlie genetically-driven differences in cell count and susceptibility to autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. We integrate these results with other multi-individual genomic readouts, revealing coordinated effects of PU.1 binding variants on the local chromatin state, enhancer-promoter contacts and downstream gene expression, and providing a functional interpretation for 27 genes underlying immune traits. Collectively, these results demonstrate the functional role of PU.1 and its target enhancers in neutrophil transcriptional control and immune disease susceptibility.
In both humans and mice, CTCF-binding elements form a series of interacting loops across the MHC class II (MHC-II) locus, and CTCF is required for maximal MHC-II gene expression. In humans, a CTCF-bound chromatin insulator termed XL9 and a super enhancer (SE) DR/DQ-SE situated in the intergenic region between HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQA1 play critical roles in regulating MHC-II expression. In this study, we identify a similar SE, termed IA/IE-SE, located between H2-Eb1 and H2-Aa of the mouse that contains a CTCF site (C15) and a novel region of high histone H3K27 acetylation. A genetic knockout of C15 was created and its role on MHC-II expression tested on immune cells. We found that C15 deletion did not alter MHC-II expression in B cells, macrophages, and macrophages treated with IFN-γ because of functional redundancy of the remaining MHC-II CTCF sites. Surprisingly, embryonic fibroblasts derived from C15-deleted mice failed to induce MHC-II gene expression in response to IFN-γ, suggesting that at least in this developmental lineage, C15 was required. Examination of the three-dimensional interactions with C15 and the H2-Eb1 and H2-Aa promoters identified interactions within the novel region of high histone acetylation within the IA/IE-SE (termed N1) that contains a PU.1 binding site. CRISPR/Cas9 deletion of N1 altered chromatin interactions across the locus and resulted in reduced MHC-II expression. Together, these data demonstrate the functional redundancy of the MHC-II CTCF elements and identify a functionally conserved SE that is critical for maximal expression of MHC-II genes.
Asthma is an inflammatory airway disease wherein bronchoconstriction, airway inflammation, and airway obstruction during asthma attacks are the main problems. It is recognized that imbalance of Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg is a critical factor in asthma pathogenesis. Manipulation of these with signaling molecules such as mTOR, PI3K, Akt, and MyD88 can control asthma. Mouse model of allergic asthma was produced and treated with ketamine, metformin, metformin and ketamine, triciribine, LY294002, and torin2. MCh challenge test, BALf's Eos Count, the IL-4, 5, INF-γ, eicosanoid, total IgE levels were determined. The MUC5a, Foxp3, RORγt, PI3K, mTOR, Akt, PU.1, and MyD88 gene expressions and histopathology study were done. Asthma groups that were treated with all six components had reduced Penh value, total IgE, IL-4 and IL-5 levels, MUC5a, RORγt, MyD88 and mTOR expression, goblet cell hyperplasia, and mucus hyper-secretion. The eosinophil percentage and Cys-LT level were decreased by metformin and ketamine, triciribine, LY294002, and torin2. The level of IFN-γ was increased in triciribine, LY294002, and torin2. Metformin, metformin and ketamine, triciribine, LY294002, and torin2 reduced Akt and PI3K expression, peribronchial and perivascular inflammation, and increased expression of Foxp3. Torin2 had an effect on PU.1 expression. Inhibition of PI3K/AKT/mTOR and TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling with targeted molecules can attenuate asthma pathology and play an important role in airways protection.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are capable of entering the cell cycle to replenish the blood system in response to inflammatory cues; however, excessive proliferation in response to chronic inflammation can lead to either HSC attrition or expansion. The mechanism(s) that limit HSC proliferation and expansion triggered by inflammatory signals are poorly defined. Here, we show that long-term HSCs (HSCLT) rapidly repress protein synthesis and cell cycle genes following treatment with the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1. This gene program is associated with activation of the transcription factor PU.1 and direct PU.1 binding at repressed target genes. Notably, PU.1 is required to repress cell cycle and protein synthesis genes, and IL-1 exposure triggers aberrant protein synthesis and cell cycle activity in PU.1-deficient HSCs. These features are associated with expansion of phenotypic PU.1-deficient HSCs. Thus, we identify a PU.1-dependent mechanism triggered by innate immune stimulation that limits HSC proliferation and pool size. These findings provide insight into how HSCs maintain homeostasis during inflammatory stress.
MicroRNA (miR)‑29b has been reported to play a controversial role in breast cancer, particularly triple‑negative breast cancer (TNBC). Based on our previous data revealing that the PU.1‑mediated expression of miR‑29b in cells from acute myeloid leukemia is sustained by Vav1, the potential role of this multidomain protein in modulating miR‑29b levels in breast tumor cells, in which Vav1 is ecstopically expressed and shows a nuclear accumulation, was investigated. Breast cancer cell lines with various phenotypes and patient‑derived xenograft‑derived TNBC cells were subjected to Vav1 modulation and reverse transcription quantitative PCR of miR‑29b levels. The recruitment of CCAAT enhancer binding protein α (CEBPα) to miR‑29b promoters was investigated by quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. It was found that Vav1 was essential for the recovery of mature miR‑29b in breast cancer cell lines, and that it promoted the expression of the miRNA in TNBC cells of the mesenchymal molecular subtype by sustaining the transcription of the miR‑29b1/a cluster mediated by CEBPα. The present results suggest that Vav1 is a crucial modulator of miR‑29b expression in breast tumor cells, and this finding may help identify strategies that may be useful in the management of TNBC by targeting the Vav1/miR‑29b axis, as there is a lack of molecular‑based treatments for TNBC.
Liver cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors with no available satisfactory treatment. The aim of the present study was to investigate the anti-tumor effect of an irradiated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) whole-cell vaccine and its underlying mechanisms. Hepa1-6 and H22 HCC cell lines were irradiated in preparation for whole-cell vaccine production. Subsequently, two HCC tumor-bearing mouse models were created by injecting these Hepa1-6 and H22 cells into the abdominal skin of C57BL/6 and ICR mice, respectively. The mice were immunized with the corresponding whole-cell vaccine the next day, and then once a week until the end of the experimental period. Tumor growth, blood T helper (Th)9 cells and plasma interleukin (IL)-9 levels were monitored during the immunization period. Th9 cells were also induced by in vitro co-culture of the whole-cell vaccine with lymphocytes from the spleen and lymph nodes of the corresponding mice. Alterations of gene expression in transcription factor (TF) were determined by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR, and Th9 cells were detected using flow cytometry. The whole-cell vaccine effectively suppressed HCC tumor growth, as indicated by slower tumor growth and a smaller tumor size in the immunized group compared with the control. The percentage of blood Th9 cells and the concentration of plasma IL-9 were significantly increased in the immunized group. The whole-cell vaccine also induced Th9 cell differentiation and upregulated the expression of TFs PU.1, interferon regulatory factor 4 and basic leucine zipper transcriptional factor ATF-like. These results suggest that the irradiated HCC whole-cell vaccine inhibited tumor growth by increasing Th9 cell numbers in HCC mice.
Transcription factors are the major agents that read the regulatory sequence information in the genome to initiate changes in expression of specific genes, both in development and in physiological activation responses. Their actions depend on site-specific DNA binding and are largely guided by their individual DNA target sequence specificities. However, their action is far more conditional in a real developmental context than would be expected for simple reading of local genomic DNA sequence, which is common to all cells in the organism. They are constrained by slow-changing chromatin states and by interactions with other transcription factors, which affect their occupancy patterns of potential sites across the genome. These mechanisms lead to emergent discontinuities in function even for transcription factors with minimally changing expression. This is well revealed by diverse lineages of blood cells developing throughout life from hematopoietic stem cells, which use overlapping combinations of transcription factors to drive strongly divergent gene regulation programs. Here, using development of T lymphocytes from hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cells as a focus, recent evidence is reviewed on how binding specificity and dynamics, transcription factor cooperativity, and chromatin state changes impact the effective regulatory functions of key transcription factors including PU.1, Runx1, Notch-RBPJ, and Bcl11b.
Microglia, the immune cells of the central nervous system, play critical roles in brain physiology and pathology. We report a novel approach that produces, within 10 days, the differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) into microglia (iMG) by forced expression of both SPI1 and CEBPA. High-level expression of the main microglial markers and the purity of the iMG cells were confirmed by RT-qPCR, immunostaining, and flow cytometry analyses. Whole-transcriptome analysis demonstrated that these iMGs resemble human fetal/adult microglia but not human monocytes. Moreover, these iMGs exhibited appropriate physiological functions, including various inflammatory responses, ADP/ATP-evoked migration, and phagocytic ability. When co-cultured with hiPSC-derived neurons, the iMGs respond and migrate toward injured neurons. This study has established a protocol for the rapid conversion of hiPSCs into functional iMGs, which should facilitate functional studies of human microglia using different disease models and also help with drug discovery.
BACKGROUND: Bu Shen Yi Sui capsule (BSYS) is a traditional Chinese medicine prescription that has shown antineuroinflammatory and neuroprotective effects in treating multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Microglia play an important role in neuroinflammation. The M1 phenotype of microglia is involved in the proinflammatory process of the disease, while the M2 phenotype plays an anti-inflammatory role. Promoting the polarization of microglia to M2 in MS/EAE is a promising therapeutic strategy. This study is aimed at exploring the effects of BSYS on microglial polarization in mice with EAE.METHODS: The EAE model was established by the intraperitoneal injection of pertussis toxin and subcutaneous injection of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)35-55 in C57BL/6J mice. The mice were treated with BSYS (3.02 g/kg), FTY720 (0.3 mg/kg), or distilled water by intragastric administration. H&E and LFB staining, transmission electron microscopy, qRT-PCR, immunofluorescence, ELISA, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and western blotting were used to detect the histological changes in myelin, microglial M1/M2 polarization markers, and the expression of key genes involved in EAE. Results and Conclusions. BSYS treatment of EAE mice increased the body weight, decreased the clinical score, and reduced demyelination induced by inflammatory infiltration. BSYS also inhibited the mRNA expression of M1 microglial markers while increasing the mRNA level of M2 markers. Additionally, BSYS led to a marked decrease in the ratio of M1 microglia (iNOS+/Iba1+) and an obvious increase in the number of M2 microglia (Arg1+/Iba1+). In the EAE mouse model, miR-124 expression was decreased, and miR-155 expression was increased, while BSYS treatment significantly reversed this effect and modulated the levels of C/EBP α, PU.1, and SOCS1 (target genes of miR-124 and miR-155). Therefore, the neuroprotective effect of BSYS against MS/EAE was related to promoting microglia toward M2 polarization, which may be correlated with changes in miR-124 and miR-155 in vivo.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a congenital disorder characterized by cortical malformations and concomitant epilepsy caused by loss-of-function mutations in the mTOR suppressors TSC1 or TSC2. While the underlying molecular changes caused by mTOR activation in TSC have previously been investigated, the drivers of these transcriptional change have not been fully elucidated. A better understanding of the perturbed transcriptional regulation could lead to the identification of novel pathways for therapeutic intervention not only in TSC, but other genetic epilepsies in which mTOR activation plays a key role, such as focal cortical dysplasia 2b (FCD). Here, we analyzed RNA sequencing data from cortical tubers and a tsc2-/- zebrafish. We identified differential expression of the transcription factors (TFs) SPI1/PU.1, IRF8, GBX2, and IKZF1 of which SPI1/PU.1 and IRF8 targets were enriched among the differentially expressed genes. Furthermore, for SPI1/PU.1 these findings were conserved in TSC zebrafish model. Next, we confirmed overexpression of SPI1/PU.1 on the RNA and protein level in a separate cohort of surgically resected TSC tubers and FCD tissue, in fetal TSC tissue, and a Tsc1GFAP-/- mouse model of TSC. Subsequently, we validated the expression of SPI1/PU.1 in dysmorphic cells with mTOR activation in TSC tubers. In fetal TSC, we detected SPI1/PU.1 expression prenatally and elevated RNA Spi1 expression in Tsc1GFAP-/- mice before the development of seizures. Finally, in vitro, we identified that in astrocytes and neurons SPI1 transcription was driven by H2 O2 -induced oxidative stress, independent of mTOR. We identified SPI1/PU.1 as a novel TF involved in the pro-inflammatory gene expression of malformed cells in TSC and FCD 2b. This transcriptional program is activated in response to oxidative stress and already present prenatally. Importantly, SPI1/PU.1 protein appears to be strictly limited to malformed cells, as we did not find SPI1/PU.1 protein expression in mice nor in our in vitro models.
PU.1 (encoded by SPI1) is essential for myeloid development, and inhibition of its expression and activity can lead to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The precise regulation of PU.1 expression is crucial for the development of AML, and the discovery of circular RNAs (circRNAs) can add a new layer of information on regulation. Here, we found that circSPI1, the circular RNA derived from the SPI1 gene, is highly expressed in AML but not in normal counterparts. Unlike SPI1, a tumor suppressor and being lowly expressed in AML, we demonstrate that circSPI1 acts as an oncogene, evidenced by the observation that circSPI1 knockdown induces myeloid differentiation and apoptosis of AML cells. We provide mechanistic evidence for multiple regulatory roles of circSPI1 in AML progression. On one hand, circSPI1 contributes to myeloid differentiation of AML cells by interacting with the translation initiation factor eIF4AIII to antagonize PU.1 expression at the translation level. On the other hand, circSPI1 contributes to proliferation and apoptosis by interacting with miR-1307-3p, miR-382-5p, and miR-767-5p; this role is uncoupled with SPI1. Finally, we illustrate the clinical significance of circSPI1 by showing that circSPI1-regulated genes are associated with the clinical outcome of AML patients. Our data provide new insight into the complex SPI1 gene regulation now involving circSPI1.
PURPOSE: Macrophages are important regulators of environmental allergen-induced airway inflammation and asthma. ATP6V0d2 is a subunit of vacuolar ATPase highly expressed in macrophages. However, the functions of ATP6V0d2 in the regulation of pathogenesis of allergic asthma remain unclear. The aim of this study is to determine the function and related molecular mechanisms of macrophage protein ATP6V0d2 in allergic asthma.METHODS: We compared the disease severity between female C57BL/6 wild-type and ATP6V0d2-/- mice in an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced asthma model. We also investigated the association of expression of ATP6V0d2, PU.1 and CCL17 with disease severity among asthmatic patients.RESULTS: The expression of ATP6V0d2 in sputum cells of asthmatic patients and in the lungs of OVA-challenged mice was enhanced compared to healthy subjects and their counterparts, respectively. However, ATP6V0d2-deficient mice exaggerated inflammatory cell infiltration as well as enhanced alternative activated macrophage (AAM) polarization and mucus production in an OVA-induced asthma model. Furthermore, we found that Atp6v0d2 promoted lysosomal degradation of Pu.1, which induced AAM polarization and Ccl17 production. Among asthma patients, ATP6V0d2 expression was inversely associated with disease severity, whereas PU.1 and CCL17 expression was positively associated with disease severity.CONCLUSIONS: Our results identify macrophage Atp6v0d2, as an induced feedback inhibitor of asthma disease severity by promoting Pu.1 lysosomal degradation, which may in turn leads to reduced AAM polarization and Ccl17 production.
Transcription factor PU.1 is involved in hematopoiesis and is expressed in various cells of the inflammatory infiltrate of the tumor stroma, mainly in macrophages. The expression of PU.1 in 100 samples of non-small cell lung cancer was analyzed by the immunohistochemical method. The number of PU.1+ cells did not correlate with clinical and morphological parameters of the tumors. However, increased number of PU.1+ cells significantly correlated with favorable prognosis in adenocarcinoma and poor prognosis in squamous cell carcinoma. Thus, transcription factor PU.1 can serve as a stromal prognostic marker of non-small cell lung cancer depending on the histological type of the tumor.
Skin injuries may occur when radiation doses to the skin exceed 2 Gy. This study aimed to measure changes in skin microcirculation in patients undergoing chronic total occlusion percutaneous coronary interventions (CTO-PCI). In 14 patients, peak skin dose (PSD) was estimated with radiographic films and skin microcirculation was assessed with laser speckle contrast imaging (LSCI), before, 1 day after the intervention, and 4-6 weeks later. The mean PSD was 1.8 ± 0.9 Gy. Peak skin microcirculation increased by 12% from 45 ± 6 PU before to 50 ± 9 PU 1 day after the intervention (p = 0.01), and returned to 46 ± 8 PU after 4-6 weeks (p = 0.15). There was no significant correlation between PSD and the change in perfusion, neither 1 day (r = -0.13, p = 0.69) nor 4-6 weeks after the intervention (r = 0.33, p = 0.35). These results suggest that there are no radiation-induced microvascular changes in the skin after CTO-PCI at skin doses below 2 Gy.
Ectopic expression of transcription factor combinations has been recently demonstrated to reprogram differentiated somatic cells towards the dendritic cell (DC) lineage without reversion to a multipotent state. DCs have the ability to induce potent and long-lasting adaptive immune responses. In particular, conventional type 1 DCs (cDC1s) excel on antigen cross-presentation, a critical step for inducing CD8+ T cell cytotoxic responses. The rarity of naturally occurring cDC1s and lack of in vitro methodologies for the generation of pure cDC1 populations strongly hinders the study of cDC1 lineage specification and function. Here, we describe a protocol for the generation of induced DCs (iDCs) by lentiviral-mediated expression of the transcription factors PU.1, IRF8 and BATF3 in mouse embryonic fibroblasts. iDCs acquire DC morphology, cDC1 phenotype and transcriptional signatures within 9 days. iDCs generated with this protocol acquire functional ability to respond to inflammatory stimuli, engulf dead cells, process and cross-present antigens to CD8+ T cells. DC reprogramming provides a simple and tractable system to generate high numbers of cDC1-like cells for high content screening, opening new avenues to better understand cDC1 specification and function. In the future, faithful induction of cDC1 fate in fibroblasts may lead to the generation of patient-specific DCs for vaccination.
Downregulation of the myeloid master regulator Spi1/PU.1 plays a pivotal role in leukemogenesis, and we previously showed that Spi1/PU.1 directly represses metallothionein (MT)-1G through the epigenetic activity of PU.1. Furthermore, we recently demonstrated that overexpression of MT-1G inhibits retinoic acid-induced differentiation of acute promyelocytic leukemia NB4 cells. As PU.1 is a master regulator of growth and differentiation in myeloid cells, we examined its effects on cell proliferation of MT-1G-overexpressing NB4 (NB4MTOE) cells in the present study. Although there were no significant differences in total viable cell numbers between NB4MTOE cells and control cells during the time course examined, the proportion of S-phase cells was obviously increased in all NB4MTOE cells at 16-24 h after serum stimulation. Consistent with these findings, real-time PCR analyses revealed marked increases in the expression of cyclin E (G1/S-phase cyclin) and cyclin A (S-phase cyclin) in NB4MTOE cells during the same time period. Furthermore, NB4MTOE cells were significantly resistant to cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C), an S-phase-specific chemotherapeutic drug. Collectively, these findings suggest a role for MT-1G in G1/S transition during the growth phase of NB4 cells.
INTRODUCTION: Thoracic surgeries are associated with intense postoperative pain. General opioid analgesia is still the main anaesthetic method. Due to the large number of opioid-induced side effects, alternative methods of pain relief are sought. One of them is the use of balanced analgesia, which consists of regional analgesia, non-opioid painkillers, and small doses of opioids.MATERIAL AND METHODS: The objective of this study was to assess the effectiveness of preoperative thoracic paravertebral block (ThPVB) in the treatment of postoperative pain after video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) by measuring hormone levels in blood serum or saliva. It was a randomised, open-label study conducted in a single university hospital setting between May 2018 and September 2019. In total, 119 patients were scheduled for elective video-assisted thoracic surgery. Performed interventions included: preoperative thoracic paravertebral block with 0.5% bupivacaine, followed by postoperative oxycodone combined with nonopioid analgesics. Follow-up period comprised first 24 hours and one, two, and six months after surgery. Main outcomes were measured by pain intensity assessed using the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) and the levels of the following hormones: testosterone, cortisol, α-amylase activity, sIgA, and β-endorphin.RESULTS: A total of 119 patients were randomised into two groups and, of these, 49 were subsequently excluded from the analysis. The final analysis included 37 patients from the study group and 33 from the control group. There were no statistically significant differences in the analysed parameters the relative change T1-T0. There was a tendency towards statistical significance in the relative change T2-T0 in testosterone levels. At rest, no statistically significant differences were found between groups and time in the percentage of patients with NRS ≥ 1. During cough, the percentage of patients with NRS ≥ 1 was higher at T1 and T2 time points in the ThPVB group. Of the factors considered, only α-amylase levels statistically significantly increased the chance for higher NRS score after a month [OR = 1.013; 95% PU: 1.001-1.025; p < 0.01].CONCLUSIONS: ThPVB is effective and safe for patients undergoing VATS. It can be an effective alternative for general anaesthesia using high doses of opioids.
Transcription factor PU.1 is a regulator of macrophage function, however, the specific function of PU.1 in teleost monocytes/macrophages (MO/MФ) remains unknown. We determined the cDNA sequence of two PU.1 genes from ayu (Plecoglossus altivelis; PaPU.1a and PaPU.1b). Sequence comparisons showed that PaPU.1 were most closely related to the PU.1 of rainbow smelt (Osmerus mordax). The PU.1 transcripts were mainly expressed in the spleen, and their expression was altered in various tissues upon infection with Vibrio anguillarum. PaPU.1a and PaPU.1b proteins were upregulated in MO/MФ, after infection. RNA interference was employed to knockdown PaPU.1a and PaPU.1b to investigate their function in MO/MФ. The expression of inflammatory cytokines was regulated by PaPU.1a, but not PaPU.1b, in ayu MO/MФ upon V. anguillarum infection. Both PaPU.1a and PaPU.1b knockdown lowered the phagocytic activity of MO/MФ. Furthermore, PaPU.1b knockdown attenuated MO/MФ bacterial killing capability. Our results indicate that two PaPU.1 genes differentially modulate the immune response in ayu MO/MФ against bacterial infection.
Granulin is a pleiotropic protein involved in inflammation, wound healing, neurodegenerative disease, and tumorigenesis. These roles in human health have prompted research efforts to use granulin to treat rheumatoid arthritis and frontotemporal dementia and to enhance wound healing. But how granulin contributes to each of these diverse biological functions remains largely unknown. Here, we have uncovered a new role for granulin during myeloid cell differentiation. We have taken advantage of the tissue-specific segregation of the zebrafish granulin paralogues to assess the functional role of granulin in hematopoiesis without perturbing other tissues. By using our zebrafish model of granulin deficiency, we revealed that during normal and emergency myelopoiesis, myeloid progenitors are unable to terminally differentiate into neutrophils and macrophages in the absence of granulin a (grna), failing to express the myeloid-specific genes cebpa, rgs2, lyz, mpx, mpeg1, mfap4, and apoeb. Functionally, macrophages fail to recruit to the wound, resulting in abnormal healing. Our CUT&RUN experiments identify Pu.1, which together with Irf8, positively regulates grna expression. In vivo imaging and RNA sequencing experiments show that grna inhibits the expression of gata1, leading to the repression of the erythroid program. Importantly, we demonstrated functional conservation between the mammalian granulin and the zebrafish ortholog grna. Our findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for granulin during myeloid cell differentiation, which opens a new field of study that can potentially have an impact on different aspects of human health and expand the therapeutic options for treating myeloid disorders such as neutropenia or myeloid leukemia.
With the exception of a few master transcription factors, regulators of neutrophil maturation are poorly annotated in the intermediate phenotypes between the granulocyte-macrophage progenitor (GMP) and the mature neutrophil phenotype. Additional challenges in identifying gene expression regulators in differentiation pathways relate to challenges wherein starting cell populations are heterogeneous in lineage potential and development, are spread across various states of quiescence, as well as sample quality and input limitations. These factors contribute to data variability make it difficult to draw simple regulatory inferences. In response we have applied a multi-omics approach using primary blood progenitor cells primed for homogeneous proliferation and granulocyte differentiation states which combines whole transcriptome resequencing (Ampliseq RNA) supported by droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) validation and mass spectrometry-based proteomics in a hypothesis-generation study of neutrophil differentiation pathways. Primary CD34+ cells isolated from human cord blood were first precultured in non-lineage driving medium to achieve an active, proliferating phenotype from which a neutrophil primed progenitor was isolated and cultured in neutrophil lineage supportive medium. Samples were then taken at 24-hour intervals over 9 days and analysed by Ampliseq RNA and mass spectrometry. The Ampliseq dataset depth, breadth and quality allowed for several unexplored transcriptional regulators and ncRNAs to be identified using a combinatorial approach of hierarchical clustering, enriched transcription factor binding motifs, and network mapping. Network mapping in particular increased comprehension of neutrophil differentiation regulatory relationships by implicating ARNT, NHLH1, PLAG1, and 6 non-coding RNAs associated with PU.1 regulation as cell-engineering targets with the potential to increase total neutrophil culture output. Overall, this study develops and demonstrates an effective new hypothesis generation methodology for transcriptome profiling during differentiation, thereby enabling identification of novel gene targets for editing interventions.
NLRC4 inflammasome activation and the subsequent maturation of IL-1β and IL-18 are critical for protection against infection by bacterial pathogens. The epigenetic regulator Brd4 has emerged as a key player in inflammation by regulating the expression of inflammatory cytokines. However, whether Brd4 has any role in inflammasome activation remains undetermined. Here, we demonstrated that Brd4 is an important regulator of NLRC4 inflammasome activation in response to Salmonella typhimurium infection. Brd4-deficient bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) displayed impaired caspase-1 activation, ASC oligomerization, IL-1β maturation, gasdermin-D cleavage, and pyroptosis in response to S.typhimurium infection. RNA sequencing and RT-PCR results revealed that the transcription of Naips was decreased in Brd4-deficient BMDMs. Brd4 formed a complex with IRF8/PU.1 and bound to the IRF8 and PU.1 binding motifs on the promoters of Naips to maintain the expression of Naips. Furthermore, myeloid lineage-specific Brd4 conditional knockout mice were more susceptible to S.typhimurium infection with increased mortality, bacterial loads, and tissue damage; impaired inflammasome-dependent cytokine production; and pyroptosis. Our studies identify a novel function of Brd4 in innate immunity by controlling inflammasome-mediated cytokine release and pyroptosis to effectively battle S.typhimurium infection.
Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) is a key transcription factor (TF) in the regulation of immune cells, including B and T cells. It acts by binding DNA as both a homodimer and, in conjunction with other TFs, as a heterodimer. The choice of homo and heterodimeric/ DNA interactions is a critical aspect in the control of the transcriptional program and cell fate outcome. To characterize the nature of this interaction in the homodimeric complex, we have determined the crystal structure of the IRF4/ISRE homodimeric complex. We show that the complex formation is aided by a substantial DNA deformation with co-operative binding achieved exclusively through protein-DNA contact. This markedly contrasts with the heterodimeric form where DNA bound IRF4 is shown to physically interact with PU.1 TF to engage EICE1. We also show that the hotspot residues (Arg98, Cys99 and Asn102) contact both consensus and non-consensus sequences with the L1 loop exhibiting marked flexibility. Additionally, we identified that IRF4L116R, a mutant associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, binds more robustly to DNA thereby providing a rationale for the observed gain of function. Together, we demonstrate key structural differences between IRF4 homo and heterodimeric complexes, thereby providing molecular insights into IRF4-mediated transcriptional regulation.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) immortalizes resting B-lymphocytes through a highly orchestrated reprogramming of host chromatin structure, transcription and metabolism. Here, we use a multi-omics-based approach to investigate these underlying mechanisms. ATAC-seq analysis of cellular chromatin showed that EBV alters over a third of accessible chromatin during the infection time course, with many of these sites overlapping transcription factors such as PU.1, Interferon Regulatory Factors (IRFs), and CTCF. Integration of RNA-seq analysis identified a complex transcriptional response and associations with EBV nuclear antigens (EBNAs). Focusing on EBNA1 revealed enhancer-binding activity at gene targets involved in nucleotide metabolism, supported by metabolomic analysis which indicated that adenosine and purine metabolism are significantly altered by EBV immortalization. We further validated that adenosine deaminase (ADA) is a direct and critical target of the EBV-directed immortalization process. These findings reveal that purine metabolism and ADA may be useful therapeutic targets for EBV-driven lymphoid cancers.
This article reports the antimicrobial activity of two segmented amphiphilic polyurethanes, PU-1 and PU-2, containing a primary or secondary amine group, respectively. In acidic water, intrachain H-bonding among the urethanes followed by hierarchical assembly resulted in the formation of capsules (Dh = 120 ± 20 and 100 ± 17 nm for PU-1 and PU-2, respectively) with a highly positive surface charge. They showed selective interactions with bacterial cell mimicking liposomes over mammalian cell mimicking liposomes with favorable enthalpy and entropy contributions, which was attributed to the electrostatic interaction and hydrophobic effect. Antimicrobial studies with Escherichia coli revealed very low minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values of 7.8 and 15.6 μg/mL for PU-1 and PU-2, respectively, indicating their ability to efficiently kill Gram-negative bacteria. Killing of Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus was noticed only at C = 500 μg/mL, indicating unprecedented selectivity for E. coli, which was further confirmed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) studies. Hemolysis assay revealed HC50 values of 453 and 847 μg/mL for PU-1 and PU-2, respectively, which were >50 times higher than their respective MIC values, thus making them attractive antimicrobial materials. Ortho-nitrophenyl-β-galactoside (ONPG) assay and live-dead fluorescence assay confirmed that for both the polymers, a membrane disruption pathway was operative for wrapping of the bacterial membrane, similar to what was proposed for antimicrobial peptides. SEM images of polymer-treated E. coli bacteria helped in visualization of the pore formation and the disrupted membrane structure.
TNFα is implicated in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) immunosuppression and disease progression. TNFα is constitutively produced by CLL B cells and is a negative regulator of bone marrow (BM) myelopoiesis. Here, we show that co-culture of CLL B cells with purified normal human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) directly altered protein levels of the myeloid and erythroid cell fate determinants PU.1 and GATA-2 at the single-cell level within transitional HSPC subsets, mimicking ex vivo expression patterns. Physical separation of CLL cells from control HSPCs or neutralizing TNFα abrogated upregulation of PU.1, yet restoration of GATA-2 required TNFα neutralization, suggesting both cell contact and soluble-factor-mediated regulation. We further show that CLL patient BM myeloid progenitors are diminished in frequency and function, an effect recapitulated by chronic exposure of control HSPCs to low-dose TNFα. These findings implicate CLL B-cell-derived TNFα in impaired BM myelopoiesis.
To date, there is no representative in vitro model for liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs), as primary LSECs dedifferentiate very fast in culture and no combination of cytokines or growth factors can induce an LSEC fate in (pluripotent stem cell (PSC)-derived) endothelial cells (ECs). Furthermore, the transcriptional programmes driving an LSEC fate have not yet been described. Here, we first present a computational workflow (CenTFinder) that can identify transcription factors (TFs) that are crucial for modulating pathways involved in cell lineage specification. Using CenTFinder, we identified several novel LSEC-specific protein markers, such as FCN2 and FCN3, which were validated by analysis of previously published single-cell RNAseq data. We also identified PU.1 (encoded by the SPI1 gene) as a major regulator of LSEC-specific immune functions. We show that SPI1 overexpression (combined with the general EC TF ETV2) in human PSCs induces ECs with an LSEC-like phenotype. The ETV2-SPI1-ECs display increased expression of LSEC markers, such as CD32B and MRC1, as well as several of the proposed novel markers. More importantly, ETV2-SPI1-ECs acquire LSEC functions, including uptake of FSA-FITC, as well as labelled IgG. In conclusion, we present the CenTFinder computational tool to identify key regulatory TFs within specific pathways, in this work pathways of lineage specification, and we demonstrate its use by the identification and validation of PU.1 as a master regulator for LSEC fating.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a severe inflammatory skin disease. Langerhans cells and inflammatory dendritic epidermal cells (IDEC) are located in the epidermis of AD patients and contribute to the inflammatory processes. Both express robustly the high-affinity receptor for IgE, FcεRI, and thereby sense allergens. A beneficial role of vitamin D3 in AD is discussed to be important especially in patients with allergic sensitization. We hypothesized that vitamin D3 impacts FcεRI expression and addressed this in human ex vivo skin, in vitro Langerhans cells, and IDEC models generated from primary human precursor cells. We show in this article that biologically active vitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2-D3] significantly downregulated FcεRI at the protein and mRNA levels of the receptor's α-chain, analyzed by flow cytometry and quantitative RT-PCR. We also describe the expression of a functional vitamin D receptor in IDEC. 1,25(OH)2-D3-mediated FcεRI reduction was direct and resulted in impaired activation of IDEC upon FcεRI engagement as monitored by CD83 expression. FcεRI regulation by 1,25(OH)2-D3 was independent of maturation and expression levels of microRNA-155 and PU.1 (as upstream regulatory axis of FcεRI) and transcription factors Elf-1 and YY1. However, 1,25(OH)2-D3 induced dissociation of PU.1 and YY1 from the FCER1A promotor, evaluated by chromatin immunoprecipitation. We show that vitamin D3 directly reduces FcεRI expression on dendritic cells by inhibiting transcription factor binding to its promotor and subsequently impairs IgE-mediated signaling. Thus, vitamin D3 as an individualized therapeutic supplement for those AD patients with allergic sensitization interferes with IgE-mediated inflammatory processes in AD patients.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is considered to be the sole clinically-useful differentiating agent in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, ATRA has been effective only in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) but not other subtypes of AML. Therefore, discovering strategies to sensitize cells to ATRA may lead to the development of ATRA-based treatments in non-APL AML patients. In the present study, a clinically-achievable concentration of enzastaurin enhanced ATRA-induced differentiation in AML cell lines, HL-60 and U937 as well as non-APL AML primary cells. Furthermore, it also restored ATRA sensitivity in ATRA-resistant cell line, HL-60Res. Mechanistically, in all these cell lines, enzastaurin-ATRA (enz-ATRA) co-treatment enhanced the protein levels of PU.1, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ) and C/EBPε. The activity of protein kinase C β (PKCβ) was suppressed by enz-ATRA treatment in HL-60 and HL-60Res cells. However, another PKCβ-selective inhibitor mimicked the cellular and molecular effects of enzastaurin only in HL-60 cells. Furthermore, in U937 cells, enz-ATRA activated MEK and ERK, and a MEK-specific inhibitor suppressed enz-ATRA-triggered differentiation and reduced the protein levels of PU.1, C/EBPβ and C/EBPε. Enz-ATRA activated Akt in HL-60 and HL-60Res cells. However, an Akt inhibitor blocked enz-ATRA-triggered differentiation and restored the protein levels of PU.1, C/EBPβ and C/EBPε only in HL-60Res cells. Therefore, PKCβ inhibition, MEK/ERK and Akt activation were involved in enz-ATRA-induced differentiation in HL-60, U937 and HL-60Res cells, respectively, via modulation of the protein levels of C/EBPβ, C/EBPε and PU.1. Taken together, our findings may help to guide novel therapeutic strategies for AML patients.
BACKGROUND: Despite granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (GCSF) is widely used in clinical, cancer chemotherapy induced neutropenia (CCIN) infection and infection-related mortality is high for lack of functionally mature neutrophils. Generating functional neutrophils is new therapeutic approaches to reduce CCIN-associated infection and mortality. Saikosaponin a (SSA) is one of the major bioactive components of Radix Bupleuri (RB) and exerts immunoregulatory effects.PURPOSE: The present study aims to investigate the efficacy and mechanism of SSA in CCIN therapy.METHODS: SSA was applied both in vitro and in vivo to assess the efficacy of CCIN therapy. The differentiation of neutrophils was measured by Nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction assay and Giemsa staining assay. The neutrophil differentiation related real-time transcription factors were detected by quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and Western Blot. Bacteria killing assay was used to assess the ability of fighting infection. Network pharmacology was employed to explore the mechanism network, and the predicted pathways were validated by Western Blot.RESULTS: We found that SSA contributed to generate functional mature neutrophils which capable of fighting infection both in vitro and in vivo. Network pharmacology prediction showed 55 pathways were predicted involved in SSA against CCIN. Further validation showed that CBL-ERK1/2 pathway was activated by SSA, which could upregulate PU.1 and CEBPβ expression leading to neutrophil differentiation.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest a natural regimen SSA regenerates microbicidal neutrophils to effectively reduce CCIN-associated infection via activating CBL-ERK1/2 pathway, providing a rationale for future therapeutic approaches.
Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) have diverse roles in the differentiation of hematopoietic cells. Among these transcripts, long ncRNAs (lncRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) have especial contribution in this regard particularly by affecting levels of transcription factors that define differentiation of each linage. miR-222, miR-10a, miR-126, miR-106, miR-10b, miR-17, miR-20, miR-146, miR-155, miR-223, miR-221, miR-92, miR-150, miR-126 and miR-142 are among miRNAs that partake in the differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells. Meanwhile, this process is controlled by a number of lncRNAs such as PU.1-AS, AlncRNA-EC7, EGO, HOTAIRM1, Fas-AS1, LincRNA-EPS and lncRNA-CSR. Manipulation of expression of these transcripts has functional significance in the treatment of cancers and in cell therapy. In this paper, we have provided a brief summary of the role of miRNAs and lncRNAs in the regulation of hematopoietic stem cells.
BACKGROUND: Sesquiterpene lactones having α-methylene-γ-lactone moiety are promising natural metabolites showing various biological activity. One of the major metabolites isolated from Pulicaria undulata, 2α-hydroxyalantolactone (PU-1), has not been investigated in detail yet. Multidrug resistance (MDR) represents a major obstacle for cancer chemotherapy and the capability of novel natural products to overcoming MDR is of great interest.PURPOSE: Exploring the molecular modes of action for potent natural product metabolites.METHODS: The resazurin reduction assay was employed to evaluate the cytotoxicity of PU-1 on sensitive and their corresponding drug-resistant cell lines (overexpressing P-glycoprotein, BCRP, ABCB5, ΔEGFR, or TP53 knockout). Gene expression profiling was performed by transcriptome-wide mRNA microarray in the human CCRF-CEM leukemic cells after treatment with PU-1. The top significantly up- or down-regulated genes were identified by Chipster program and analyzed using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software. Finally, flow cytometry and Western blotting were performed for cell cycle analyses and apoptosis detection.RESULTS: The sesquiterpene lactone, PU-1, showed potent cytotoxicity towards the drug-sensitive and -resistant cell lines. Transcriptome-wide mRNA expression profiling and pathway analysis pointed to genes involved in DNA damage response and G2/M cell cycle arrest. G2/M arrest was verified by flow cytometry and further confirmed by the upregulation of p21 and downregulation of p-CDC25C expression in Western blotting. Moreover, the suggested DNA damage checkpoint regulation was confirmed by immunofluorescence and Western blotting by upregulation of pS345 Chk1, p-H3 and γ-H2AX. Furthermore, PU-1 inhibited PI3K/AKT pathway, which is involved in signaling DNA damage and G2/M arrest. Cells ultimately induced apoptosis upon PU-1 treatment.CONCLUSIONS: PU-1 is a potent natural product inhibiting otherwise drug-resistant human tumor cell growth through DNA damage, G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis.
During developmental progression the genomes of immune cells undergo large-scale changes in chromatin folding. However, insights into signaling pathways and epigenetic control of nuclear architecture remain rudimentary. Here, we found that in activated neutrophils calcium influx rapidly recruited the cohesin-loading factor NIPBL to thousands of active enhancers and promoters to dictate widespread changes in compartment segregation. NIPBL recruitment to enhancers and promoters occurred with distinct kinetics. The induction of NIPBL-binding was coordinate with increased P300, BRG1 and RNA polymerase II occupancy. NIPBL-bound enhancers were associated with NFAT, PU.1, and CEBP cis elements, whereas NIPBL-bound promoters were enriched for GC-rich DNA sequences. Using an acute degradation system, we found that the histone acetyltransferases P300 and CBP maintained H3K27ac abundance and facilitated NIPBL occupancy at enhancers and that active transcriptional elongation is essential to maintain H3K27ac abundance. Chromatin remodelers, containing either of the mutually exclusive BRG1 and BRM ATPases, promoted NIPBL recruitment at active enhancers. Conversely, at active promoters, depletion of BRG1 and BRM showed minimal effect on NIPBL occupancy. Finally, we found that calcium signaling in both primary innate and adaptive immune cells swiftly induced NIPBL occupancy. Collectively, these data reveal how transcriptional regulators, histone acetyltransferases, chromatin remodelers, and transcription elongation promote NIPBL occupancy at active enhancers while the induction of NIPLB occupancy at promoters is primarily associated with GC-rich DNA sequences.
C/EBPα is required for formation of granulocyte-monocyte progenitors (GMP) and also participates in B lymphopoiesis. The common lymphoid progenitor (CLP) and preproB populations but not proB cells express Cebpa, and pan-hematopoietic deletion of the +37 kb Cebpa enhancer using Mx1-Cre leads not only to reduced GMP but also to 2-fold reduced marrow preproB and >15-fold reduced proB and preB cells. We now show that IL7Rα-Cre-mediated deletion of the +37 kb Cebpa enhancer, which occurs in 89% of Ly6D+ and 65% of upstream Ly6D- CLP, leads to a 2-fold reduction of both preproB and proB cells, and a 3-fold reduction in preB cells, with no impact on GMP numbers. These data support a direct role for C/EBPα during B lineage development, with reduced enhancer deletion in Ly6D- CLP mediated by IL7Rα-Cre diminishing the effect on B lymphopoiesis compared to that seen with Mx1-Cre. Amongst mRNAs encoding key transcriptional regulators that initiate B lymphoid specification (PU.1, E2A, IKAROS, EBF1, FOXO1, and BACH2), only Ebf1 levels are altered in CLP upon Mx1-Cre-mediated Cebpa enhancer deletion, with Ebf1 reduced ~40-fold in Flt3+Sca-1intc-kitintIL7Rα+ CLP. In addition, Cebpa and Ebf1 RNAs were 4- and 14-fold higher in hCD4+ versus hCD4- CLP from Cebpa-hCD4 transgenic mice. Histone modification ChIP-Seq data for CLP indicate the presence of active, intronic Ebf1 enhancers located 270 and 280 kb upstream of the transcription start sites. We identified a cis element in this region that strongly binds C/EBPα using the electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Mutation of this C/EBPα-binding site in an Ebf1 enhancer-TK-luciferase reporter leads to a 4-fold reduction in C/EBPα-mediated trans-activation. These findings support a model of B lymphopoiesis in which induction of Ebf1 by C/EBPα in a subset of CLP contributes to initiation of B lymphopoiesis.
There is a significant fluctuation in clinical symptoms of asthmatic females during their life course, suggesting that the reproductive status and the level of sex hormones may affect the development of asthma and its exacerbation. In this study, we aimed to assess the biological effects of 17β-estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4), alone or in combination form, on the transcription factors and production of cytokines in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). PBMCs of the mild-to-moderate asthmatic patients and healthy controls (HCs) were treated with equivalent serum levels of E2 or P4 maintained during hormone replacement therapy (HRT). The expression levels of T-bet, GATA-3, RORγt, PU.1, and Foxp3 were assessed by quantitative PCR. We also measured the concentration of IL-4, IL-9, IL-10, IFN-γ, and TGF-β in cell culture supernatants using ELISA. IL-4 production and GATA-3 expression levels slightly increased when asthmatic PBMCs were treated with E2 (p < 0.01), P4 (p < 0.01), or E2 + P4 (p < 0.001) compared to the untreated cells. IL-9 secretion (p < 0.001) and PU.1 gene expression levels (p < 0.05) were slightly higher in asthmatic patients' PBMCs before treatment but hormone therapy did not affect the level of them. Although the untreated asthmatic PBMCs produced a lower amount of IFN-γ compared to HCs (p < 0.01), hormone treatment did not affect the levels of IFN-γ secretion in patient groups. Moreover, we did not observe any significant changes in IL-10 and TGF-β secretion in the supernatant of hormone treated cells. We found that the common applied HRT may faintly increase GATA-3 expression and IL-4 production levels in PBMCs of asthmatic patients and can slightly increase asthma severity.
Locus coeruleus (LC)-derived noradrenaline is important in cognition and decreases with age, but the impact of prior noradrenaline deficiency on vulnerability to inflammation-induced acute cognitive dysfunction is unclear. Here we assessed whether noradrenergic depletion, in female mice, impacted upon inflammation, locomotor activity and working memory directly after acute systemic immune challenge with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a paradigm we have previously used to capture delirium-like acute cognitive deficits. Mice received 2 doses of the LC-selective noradrenergic toxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4; 50 mg/kg i.p.) and were challenged, 2 weeks later, with LPS (100 μg/kg i.p.). DSP-4 dramatically reduced noradrenaline concentrations and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive afferents in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. This did not significantly alter numbers of Pu.1-positive microglia, Iba1-positive microglial morphology or mRNA expression of microglia-associated gene transcripts (Tyrobp, Sall1, Cd68, Sra2, Clec7a) in the hippocampus or frontal cortex and produced modest reductions in Cx3cr1 and P2ry12. LPS induced blood and brain cytokine levels, cFOS activation and locomotor responses that were highly similar in DSP-4- and vehicle-treated mice, although LPS-induced plasma TNF-α was significantly reduced in those treated with DSP-4. Importantly, prior noradrenergic depletion did not predispose to LPS-induced T-maze working memory deficits. The data demonstrate that significant depletion of noradrenaline in the hippocampus and frontal cortex does not prompt acutely exaggerated neuroinflammation or leave the brain vulnerable to acute, transient working memory deficits upon low dose LPS challenge. These findings have implications for our understanding of the impact of systemic inflammation on the aging and vulnerable brain during septic encephalopathy and delirium.
More than forty loci contribute to genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). These risk alleles are enriched in myeloid cell enhancers suggesting that microglia, the brain-resident macrophages, contribute to AD risk. We have previously identified SPI1/PU.1, a master regulator of myeloid cell development in the brain and periphery, as a genetic risk factor for AD. Higher expression of SPI1 is associated with increased risk for AD, while lower expression is protective. To investigate the molecular and cellular phenotypes associated with higher and lower expression of PU.1 in microglia, we used stable overexpression and knock-down of PU.1 in BV2, an immortalized mouse microglial cell line. Transcriptome analysis suggests that reduced PU.1 expression suppresses expression of homeostatic genes similar to the disease-associated microglia response to amyloid plaques in mouse models of AD. Moreover, PU.1 knock-down resulted in activation of protein translation, antioxidant action and cholesterol/lipid metabolism pathways with a concomitant decrease of pro-inflammatory gene expression. PU.1 overexpression upregulated and knock-down downregulated phagocytic uptake in BV2 cells independent of the nature of the engulfed material. However, cells with reduced PU.1 expression retained their ability to internalize myelin similar to control albeit with a delay, which aligns with their anti-inflammatory profile. Here we identified several microglial responses that are modulated by PU.1 expression levels and propose that risk association of PU.1 to AD is driven by increased pro-inflammatory response due to increased viability of cells under cytotoxic conditions. In contrast, low expression of PU.1 leads to increased cell death under cytotoxic conditions accompanied by reduced pro-inflammatory signaling that decreased A1 reactive astrocytes signature supporting the protective effect of SPI1 genotype in AD. These findings inform future in vivo validation studies and design of small molecule screens for therapeutic discovery in AD.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are key immune modulators and are able to mount immune responses or tolerance. DC differentiation and activation imply a plethora of molecular and cellular responses, including transcriptional changes. PU.1 is a highly expressed transcription factor in DCs and coordinates relevant aspects of DC biology. Due to their role as immune regulators, DCs pose as a promising immunotherapy tool. However, some of their functional features, such as survival, activation, or migration, are compromised due to the limitations to simulate in vitro the physiologic DC differentiation process. A better knowledge of transcriptional programs would allow the identification of potential targets for manipulation with the aim of obtaining "qualified" DCs for immunotherapy purposes. Most of the current knowledge regarding DC biology derives from studies using mouse models, which not always find a parallel in human. In the present study, we dissect the PU.1 transcriptional regulome and interactome in mouse and human DCs, in the steady state or LPS activated. The PU.1 transcriptional regulome was identified by performing PU.1 chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing and pairing these data with RNAsequencing data. The PU.1 interactome was identified by performing PU.1 immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry analysis. Our results portray PU.1 as a pivotal factor that plays an important role in the regulation of genes required for proper DC activation and function, and assures the repression of nonlineage genes. The interspecies differences between human and mouse DCs are surprisingly substantial, highlighting the need to study the biology of human DCs.
DNA methylation differences in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been reported. Here, we conducted a meta-analysis of more than 1000 prefrontal cortex brain samples to prioritize the most consistent methylation differences in multiple cohorts. Using a uniform analysis pipeline, we identified 3751 CpGs and 119 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) significantly associated with Braak stage. Our analysis identified differentially methylated genes such as MAMSTR, AGAP2, and AZU1. The most significant DMR identified is located on the MAMSTR gene, which encodes a cofactor that stimulates MEF2C. Notably, MEF2C cooperates with another transcription factor, PU.1, a central hub in the AD gene network. Our enrichment analysis highlighted the potential roles of the immune system and polycomb repressive complex 2 in pathological AD. These results may help facilitate future mechanistic and biomarker discovery studies in AD.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by abnormal activation of T cells and caused by an imbalance in the production and clearance of apoptotic cells. We previously showed that the transcription regulator Bach2 regulated abnormal B-cell activation in SLE. Here, we investigated whether Bach2 was also involved in Th9 cell differentiation in SLE. We found that the proportion of Th9 cells was enhanced in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of SLE patients. The PBMC and CD4+ T cells of SLE patients exhibited a decrease of Bach2 expression and an increase of IL-9 expression. Furthermore, Bach2 overexpression significantly repressed the levels of PU.1, IRF4, IL-9, and Th9 cells in the CD4+ T cells of SLE patients and healthy volunteers. In addition, Bach2 overexpression inhibited the levels of IL-9 and Th9 cells, whereas IRF4 upregulation enhanced the levels of IRF4 and IL-9 and Th9 cells in the CD4+ T cells of SLE patients and healthy volunteers. The effect of IRF4 up-regulation was abolished by Bach2 overexpression. In summary, our work suggests that Bach2 overexpression represses Th9 cell differentiation by suppressing IRF4 expression in SLE, and thus, Bach2 may be a novel potential target for SLE treatment.
Fibroblasts are pleomorphic cells that have a multi-directional effect on organ morphogenesis, tissue homeostasis, and immune response. In fibrotic diseases, fibroblasts synthesize large amounts of extracellular matrix (ECM), leading to scarring and organ failure. Purine-rich box1 (PU.1) is a specific transcription factor of hematopoietic cell and belongs to the E26 transformation specificity (ETS) family. Recently, it was found that the transcription factor PU.1 is an important regulatory factor of the profibrotic gene expression program. TGF-β had been proved to play an important role in many ocular tissue fibrosis diseases, and up-regulated the expression of PU.1 in fibroblasts producing ECM in a Smad-3 dependent manner. We explore the effect of PU.1 on fibrosis of different ocular tissues from this perspective. This article reviews the role of PU.1 and its effects on fibrosis of ocular tissue and other tissues.
The mammalian SWitch/Sucrose Non-Fermentable (SWI/SNF) chromatin-remodeling BAF (BRG1/BRM-associated factor) complex plays an essential role in developmental and pathological processes. We show that the deletion of Baf155, which encodes a subunit of the BAF complex, in the Tie2(+) lineage (Baf155 (CKO) leads to defects in yolk sac myeloid and definitive erythroid (EryD) lineage differentiation from erythromyeloid progenitors (EMPs). The chromatin of myeloid gene loci in Baf155 CKO EMPs is mostly inaccessible and enriched mainly by the ETS binding motif. BAF155 interacts with PU.1 and is recruited to PU.1 target gene loci together with p300 and KDM6a. Treatment of Baf155 CKO embryos with GSK126, an H3K27me2/3 methyltransferase EZH2 inhibitor, rescues myeloid lineage gene expression. This study uncovers indispensable BAF-mediated chromatin remodeling of myeloid gene loci at the EMP stage. Future studies exploiting epigenetics in the generation and application of EMP derivatives for tissue repair, regeneration, and disease are warranted.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β), an ubiquitously expressed serine/threonine kinase is reported to be overexpressed and hyperactivated in cancers including acute myeloid leukemia (AML) where it promotes self-renewal, growth, and survival of AML cells. Therefore, GSK3β inhibition results in AML cell growth inhibition and myeloid differentiation. Here we identified master transcription factor PU.1 of monocyte-macrophage differentiation pathway as potential GSK3β target. We demonstrate that GSK3β phosphorylates PU.1 at Ser41 and Ser140 leading to its recognition and subsequent ubiquitin-mediated degradation by E3 ubiquitin ligase FBW7. This GSK3-dependent degradation of PU.1 by FBW7 inhibited monocyte-macrophage differentiation. We further showed that a phospho-deficient PU.1 mutant (PU.1-S41, S140A) neither bound to FBW7 nor was degraded by it. Consequently, PU.1-S41, S140A retained its transactivation, DNA-binding ability and promoted monocyte-macrophage differentiation of U937 cells even without phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) treatment. We further showed that FBW7 overexpression inhibited both PMA as well as M-CSF-induced macrophage differentiation of myeloid cell lines and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from healthy volunteers, respectively. Contrarily, FBW7 depletion promoted differentiation of these cells even without any inducer suggesting for a robust role of GSK3β-FBW7 axis in negatively regulating myeloid differentiation. Furthermore, we also recapitulated these findings in PBMCs isolated from patients with leukemia where FBW7 overexpression markedly inhibited endogenous PU.1 protein levels. In addition, PBMCs also showed enhanced differentiation when treated with M-CSF and GSK3 inhibitor (SB216763) together compared with M-CSF treatment alone. IMPLICATIONS: Our data demonstrate a plausible mechanism behind PU.1 restoration and induction of myeloid differentiation upon GSK3β inhibition and further substantiates potential of GSK3β as a therapeutic target in AML.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) play important roles in transcriptional regulation in eukaryotic cells. Class I deacetylase HDAC1/2 often associates with repressor complexes, such as Sin3 (Switch Independent 3), NuRD (Nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase) and CoREST (Corepressor of RE1 silencing transcription factor) complexes. It has been shown that HDAC1 interacts with and modulates all essential transcription factors for erythropoiesis. During erythropoiesis, histone deacetylase activity is dramatically reduced. Consistently, inhibition of HDAC activity promotes erythroid differentiation. The reduction of HDAC activity not only results in the activation of transcription activators such as GATA-1 (GATA-binding factor 1), TAL1 (TAL BHLH Transcription Factor 1) and KLF1 (Krüpple-like factor 1), but also represses transcription repressors such as PU.1 (Putative oncogene Spi-1). The reduction of histone deacetylase activity is mainly through HDAC1 acetylation that attenuates HDAC1 activity and trans-repress HDAC2 activity through dimerization with HDAC1. Therefore, the acetylation of HDAC1 can convert the corepressor complex to an activator complex for gene activation. HDAC1 also can deacetylate non-histone proteins that play a role on erythropoiesis, therefore adds another layer of gene regulation through HDAC1. Clinically, it has been shown HDACi can reactivate fetal globin in adult erythroid cells. This review will cover the up to date research on the role of HDAC1 in modulating key transcription factors for erythropoiesis and its clinical relevance.
Osteoclasts are bone resorption cells of myeloid origin. Osteoclast defects can lead to osteopetrosis, a genetic disorder characterized by bone sclerosis for which there is no effective drug treatment. It is known that Pu.1 and Fms are key regulators in myelopoiesis, and their defects in mice can lead to reduced osteoclast numbers and consequent osteopetrosis. Yet how Pu.1 and Fms genetically interact in the development of osteoclasts and the pathogenesis of osteopetrosis is still unclear. Here, we characterized pu.1G242D;fmsj4e1 double-deficient zebrafish, which exhibited a greater deficiency of functional osteoclasts and displayed more severe osteopetrotic symptoms than the pu.1G242D or fmsj4e1 single mutants, suggesting a synergistic function of Pu.1 and Fms in the regulation of osteoclast development. We further demonstrated that Pu.1 plays a dominant role in osteoclastogenesis, whereas Fms plays a dominant role in osteoclast maturation. Importantly, treatment with the drug retinoic acid significantly relieved the different degrees of osteopetrosis symptoms in these models by increasing the number of functional osteoclasts. Thus, we report the development of valuable animal models of osteopetrosis, and our results shed light on drug development for antiosteopetrosis therapy.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology and Immunology, Kanazawa Medical University.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by impaired myeloid lineage differentiation, uncontrolled proliferation, and inhibition of proapoptotic pathways. In spite of a relatively homogeneous clinical disease presentation, risk of long-term survival in AML varies from 20% to 80% depending on molecular disease characteristics. In recognition of the molecular heterogeneity of AML, the European Leukemia Net (ELN) and WHO classification systems now incorporate cytogenetics and increasing numbers of gene mutations into AML prognostication. Several of the genomic AML subsets are characterized by unique transcription factor alterations that are highlighted in this review. There are many mechanisms of transcriptional deregulation in leukemia. We broadly classify transcription factors based on mechanisms of transcriptional deregulation including direct involvement of transcription factors in recurrent translocations, loss-of-function mutations, and intracellular relocalization. Transcription factors, due to their pleiotropic effects, have been attractive but elusive targets. Indirect targeting approaches include inhibition of upstream kinases such as TAK1 for suppression of NFκB signaling and downstream effectors such as FGF signaling in HOXA-upregulated leukemia. Other strategies include targeting scaffolding proteins like BrD4 in the case of MYC or coactivators such as menin to suppress HOX expression; disrupting critical protein interactions in the case of β-catenin:TCF/LEF, and preventing transcription factor binding to DNA as in the case of PU.1 or FOXM1. We comprehensively describe the mechanism of deregulation of transcription factors in genomic subsets of AML, consequent pathway addictions, and potential therapeutic strategies.
The anti-leishmanial effect of the 'carbohydrate-fraction', isolated from an edible mushroom Astraeus hygrometricus, was evaluated against Leishmania donovani infection both in vitro and in vivo. Ahf-Car induced the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase 2 (iNOS2) and pro-inflammatory cytokines like TNF-α and IL-12, with subsequent downregulation of the anti-inflammatory cytokines as TGF-β and IL-10, in vitro and in vivo along with a remarkable increase in the expressions of IL-6, IL-1β, IFN-γ and IRFs, IRF-7 and IRF-8 in vivo. Ahf-Car also reduced the parasite burden in the spleen and liver dose-dependently with a simultaneous proliferation of Ly6C+ cells in the bone marrow of Leishmania-infected experimental animals. It also increased the monocyte population dose-dependently and the expression of the myeloid transcription factor PU.1, in vivo, which presumably signifies the expansion of protective macrophages. Thus, Ahf-Car might be a potent anti-leishmanial lead with unique and effective adjuvant capacity.
The transcription factor PU.1, an important member of the ETS family, plays a significant role in the differentiation of immune cells, which include macrophages, neutrophils, dendritic cells, T lymphoid cells, B lymphoid cells and so on. Immune cells are involved in the occurrence and development of diseases, including inflammatory diseases, neoplastic diseases and immune diseases. Therefore, it is particularly crucial to elucidate the roles and mechanisms of PU.1 in immune cells. The elucidation of these mechanisms may lead to the development of more effective therapeutic strategies for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and immune‑mediated diseases mediated by various immune cells. With the development of molecular biology, the mechanisms of PU.1 in immune cell differentiation have been further explained. Different levels of PU.1 expression determine the type of immune cell differentiation. PU.1 expression is increased during granulocyte and macrophage differentiation, while it is decreased during T lymphocyte and B lymphocyte differentiation. The present study reviews and discusses the effects of the transcription factor PU.1 on immune cell differentiation.
T cells play vital roles in the development and progression of acute coronary syndromes (ACS), including cytotoxicity mediated by CD8+ T cells and immunoregulatory activity mediated by CD4+ T cells. Interleukin (IL)-9-secreting CD4+ T cells (Th9 cells) were recently found to be involved in the onset of ACS. We investigated regulatory role of Th9 cells to CD8+ T cells in patients with stable angina pectoris, unstable angina pectoris, and acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Circulating Th9 cells percentage, plasma IL-9 level, and PU.1 mRNA relative level was up-regulated in AMI patients compared with controls. There was no significant difference of IL-9-secreting CD8+ T cells percentage among groups. CD8+ T cells from AMI patients revealed increased cytotoxicity than those from controls, which presented as enhanced cytotolytic activity to target cells, increased interferon-γ and tumor necrosis factor-α secretion, elevated perforin and granzyme B production, and reduced programmed death-1 and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4. IL-9 stimulation did not affect proliferation, but promoted CD8+ T-cell cytotoxicity from both controls and AMI patients. IL-9-secreting CD4+ T cells were enriched in CD4+ CCR4- CCR6- CXCR3- cells. The enhancement of CD8+ T-cell cytotoxicity induced by CD4+ CCR4- CCR6- CXCR3- cells was dependent on IL-9 secretion. The present results indicated that up-regulation of IL-9-secreting CD4+ T cells may contribute to pathogenesis of AMI through enhancement of CD8+ T-cell cytotoxicity.
Rationale: Amyloid β (Aβ) deposition, an essential pathological process in age-related macular degeneration (AMD), causes retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) degeneration driven mostly by oxidative stress. However, despite intense investigations, the extent to which overoxidation contributes to Aβ-mediated RPE damage and its potential mechanism has not been fully elucidated. Methods: We performed tandem mass-tagged (TMT) mass spectrometry (MS) and bioinformatic analysis of the RPE-choroid complex in an Aβ1-40-induced mouse model of retinal degeneration to obtain a comprehensive proteomic profile. Key regulators in this model were confirmed by reactive oxygen species (ROS) detection, mitochondrial ROS assay, oxygen consumption rate (OCR) measurement, gene knockout experiment, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), and luciferase assay. Results: A total of 4243 proteins were identified, 1069 of which were significantly affected by Aβ1-40 and found to be enriched in oxidation-related pathways by bioinformatic analysis. Moreover, NADPH oxidases were identified as hub proteins in Aβ1-40-mediated oxidative stress, as evidenced by mitochondrial dysfunction and reactive oxygen species overproduction. By motif and binding site analyses, we found that the transcription factor PU.1/Spi1 acted as a master regulator of the activation of NADPH oxidases, especially the NOX4-p22phox complex. Also, PU.1 silencing impeded RPE oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction and rescued the retinal structure and function. Conclusion: Our study suggests that PU.1 is a novel therapeutic target for AMD, and the regulation of PU.1 expression represents a potentially novel approach against excessive oxidative stress in Aβ-driven RPE injury.
A new series of polyurea derivatives and its nanocomposites were synthesised by the solution polycondensation method through the interaction between 4(2-aminothiazol-4-ylbenzylidene)-4-(tert-butyl) cyclohexanone and diisocyanate compound in pyridine. The PU1-3 structure was conﬁrmed using Fourier transform-infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy and characterised by solubility, viscometry, gel permeation chromatography (GPC), and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis. In addition, PU1-3 was evaluated by TGA. Polyurea-TiO2nanocomposites were synthesised using the same technique as that of PU1-3 by adding TiO2 as a nanofiller. The thermal properties of PU2TiO2a-d were evaluated by TGA. Moreover, the morphological properties of a selected sample were examined by SEM and TEM. In addition, PU1-3 and PU2TiO2a-d were examined for antimicrobial activity against certain bacteria and fungi. The PU1-3 showed antibacterial activity against some of the tested bacteria and fungi, as did PU2TiO2a-d, which increased with the increase in TiO2 content. Furthermore, molecular docking studies were displayed against all PU1-3 derivatives against two types of proteins. The results show that the increase in the strength of π-H interactions and H-donors contributed to improved binding of PU2 compared to PU1 andPU3. The docking of 1KZN against the tested polymers suggests an increase in the docking score of PU2, then PU1, and PU3, which is in agreement with the antibacterial study.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of Xiaoyin Jiedu (XYJD) granules in the treatment of psoriasis vulgaris (PSV) in patients with a blood-heat pattern (BHP) in terms of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM). We also aimed to identify the possible underlying immunological mechanism.METHODS: Twenty-five PSV patients with BHP and ten normal controls were enrolled from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2016. Patients were randomly assigned to either the XYJD group (15 cases) or the placebo group (10 cases), in which patients were treated with XYJD granules or a placebo, respectively. Additionally, albolene was used to relieve skin dryness in these two groups. The psoriasis area and severity indexes, dermatology life quality indexes and itching scores were assessed at the end of the 2nd, 4th and 8th week of treatment. The number of peripheral blood T helper (Th) 9, Th17 and regulatory T cells (Tregs) and the mRNA and protein expression levels of PU.1, RAR-related orphan receptor (ROR)-γt, forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3), interleukin (IL)-9, IL-17, IL-23 and IL-10 in the control and experimental groups were compared before and after treatment.RESULTS: Psoriasis area and severity indexes and itching scores of patients in the XYJD group were significantly lower than those in the placebo group, whereas dermatology life quality indexes were significantly higher. In comparison with the placebo group, XYJD granules significantly reduced the number of Th17 cells and the mRNA and protein expression levels of Th17-related ROR-γt, IL-17, IL-22 and IL-23 in the peripheral blood and reduced the number of Th9 cells and the mRNA and protein expression levels of Th9-related PU.1 and IL-9.CONCLUSION: XYJD granules were effective against PSV in patients with BHP by reducing the number of Th9 and Th17 cells and the levels of their related cytokines.
Dendritic cells (DCs) and T cells play important roles in immune regulation, and modulating their function is an approach for developing preventive or therapeutic strategies against immune disorders. Herein, the effect of pterostilbene (PSB) (3',5'-dimethoxy-resveratrol)-a resveratrol-related polyphenol found in blueberries-on immune regulation was evaluated. Using an in vitro co-culture system, PSB was found to exert the strongest inhibitory effect among all tested resveratrol derivatives on DC-mediated T cell proliferation; moreover, PSB treatment decreased the Th1 and Th17 populations and increased the regulatory T cell (Treg) population. Upon co-stimulation with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 antibodies, PSB inhibited CD4+ T cell proliferation and differentiation into Th1 cells. Additionally, PSB acted on DCs to suppress the lipopolysaccharide-induced transactivation of genes encoding antigen presentation-related molecules and inflammatory cytokines by attenuating the DNA-binding ability of the transcription factor PU.1. Furthermore, PSB promoted DC-mediated Foxp3+ Treg differentiation, and PU.1 knockdown increased DC-induced Treg activity. Oral administration of PSB alleviated the symptoms of dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis and decreased tumor necrosis factor-α expression in mice. Thus, PSB treatment ameliorates colonic inflammation.
The underlying mechanism of transcriptional co-repressor ETO2 during early erythropoiesis and hemoglobin switching is unclear. We find that absence of ETO2 in mice interferes with down-regulation of PU.1 and GATA2 in the fetal liver, impeding a key step required for commitment to erythroid maturation. In human β-globin transgenic Eto2 null mice and in human CD34+ erythroid progenitor cells with reduced ETO2, loss of ETO2 results in ineffective silencing of embryonic/fetal globin gene expression, impeding hemoglobin switching during erythroid differentiation. ETO2 occupancy genome-wide occurs virtually exclusively at LDB1-complex binding sites in enhancers and ETO2 loss leads to increased enhancer activity and expression of target genes. ETO2 recruits the NuRD nucleosome remodeling and deacetylation complex to regulate histone acetylation and nucleosome occupancy in the β-globin locus control region and γ-globin gene. Loss of ETO2 elevates LDB1, MED1 and Pol II in the locus and facilitates fetal γ-globin/LCR looping and γ-globin transcription. Absence of the ETO2 hydrophobic heptad repeat region impairs ETO2-NuRD interaction and function in antagonizing γ-globin/LCR looping. Our results reveal a pivotal role for ETO2 in erythropoiesis and globin gene switching through its repressive role in the LDB1 complex, affecting the transcription factor and epigenetic environment and ultimately restructuring chromatin organization.
PURPOSE OF THE REVIEW: Over the years, our perceptions of fibrogenesis in systemic sclerosis (SSc) have advanced a lot. Herein, we review potential targets for SSc discovered in the past 3 years.RECENT FINDINGS: In recent years, metabolites have come into the limelight of SSc research. Anti-oxidants, promotor of adipogenesis, modulator of fatty acid metabolism, regulator of glucose homeostasis, and adenosine deaminase open a new door for SSc treatment. A mosaic of biolipids, especially cannabinoid receptor 2 agonist, represents a rational therapeutic approach in fibrosis. In terms of immune aspects, targeting chemokines or integrins for cell adhesion may become new approach to inhibiting fibrotic pathways. Epigenetic modulation of immune pathways has been uncovered much recently. Targeting histone modifications and lncRNAs has demonstrated therapeutic potential in SSc animal models. The classical JAK-STAT and interferon pathway drive great attention these years because of the promising potential for the drug repurposing of targeted therapies from arthritis to SSc. In fibrosis-associated developmental pathways, BMP, Hedgehog, and PU.1 are expected to offer new targets to restrain fibrosis. New targets involved in metabolic reprogramming, immunity, epigenetics together with developmental and apoptotic pathways open new avenues for therapeutic modulation in SSc.
BACKGROUND: Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) contribute significantly to the development of immunosuppressive properties of a tumor. In this study, we performed immunohistochemical analysis of immune cells of esophageal tumors stroma.METHODS: Paraffin-embedded tissue specimens from 48 esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients were retrospectively collected for immunohistochemical analysis of stromal cells. For staining of macrophages, CD68, CD163, CD206, PU.1, and iNOS were used. For T cell detection, CD8, CD3, and FOXP3 were used. Also, we performed staining for PD-L1 that can be expressed on TAMs and tumor cells. Clinicopathological and survival data were collected and analyzed using the χ 2 and Fisher exact tests, Kaplan-Meier curves, and the log-rank test. The correlation analysis was performed with Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.RESULTS: We found that FOXP3 expression was associated with age (p = 0.042) and iNOS expression was associated with the disease stage (p = 0.044). In addition, FOXP3 and CD163 appeared to be markers of good prognosis (HR = 0.4420, p = 0.0325, and HR = 0.4447, p = 0.0456, respectively). Significant association between PU.1+ and CD68+ macrophages (r = 0.833; p ≤ 0.001) and between PU.1+ and CD163+ macrophages (r = 0.500; p ≤ 0.001) was established; positive association between PU.1 and CD206 expression was also observed (r = 0.250; p = 0.043).CONCLUSIONS: Large amounts of CD163+ macrophages and FOXP3+ Т cells appear to be markers of good prognosis of ESCC. The number of PU.1+ macrophages strongly correlates with the number of CD68+ macrophages; therefore, usage of PU.1 as a potential macrophage marker can be recommended for esophageal tumors.
Comment in    J Urol. 2021 Jun;205(6):1798-1800.
Cancer chemotherapy induced neutropenia (CCIN) is one of the most common toxicity caused by cytotoxic anticancer agents. Despite granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (GCSF) is widely used in clinical practice, the infection and infection-related mortality rate is still high for lack of functionally mature neutrophils. Saikosaponin d (SSD) is one of the major bioactive constituents of Radix Bupleuri (RB), which exerts immune-modulatory properties. We explored the function of SSD in CCIN therapy, we found that SSD contributed to generate functional mature neutrophils which capable of fighting infection both in vitro and in vivo. Network pharmacology was employed to explore the mechanism, 61 signal pathways might play an important role in CCIN treatment. Western Blot was employed to further confirm the potential pathway involved. We found CBL-ERK1/2 pathway was activated by SSD, followed by upregulating PU.1 and CEBPβ expression and leading to neutrophil differentiation. Our findings suggest a natural regimen SSD which could regenerate microbicidal neutrophils to effectively reduce CCIN-associated infection via activating CBL-ERK1/2, providing a rationale for future therapeutic approaches.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2021 Feb 19;16(2):e0247680.
Erratum in    Immunity. 2021 Jul 13;54(7):1622.
In cell lineage commitment decisions, a gene regulatory network (GRN) consisting of a limited number of transcription factors forms the regulatory pivot. Myeloid lineage dendritic cells or DCs are specialized cells having the antigen-presenting ability and are of immense importance in immune surveillance. In this report, we analyze the GRN that governs the lineage commitment of Common DC Progenitor (CDP) cells to conventional dendritic cells (cDC) and plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC). We have analyzed the quantitative behavior of the master regulatory circuit of CDP that governs the lineage commitment. Simulations showed that the GRN displays a bi-stable behavior within a range of parameter values. Several transcription factors, PU.1, IRF8, Flt3, and Stat3, whose concentrations vary significantly in the two steady states, appear to be the key players. We hypothesize that the two stable steady states are precursors of cDC and pDC, and the variation of concentration of these key transcription factors in the two states may be responsible for early events in lineage commitment.
IL-9-producing CD4+ T cells have been considered to represent a distinct T helper cell (TH cell) subset owing to their unique developmental programme in vitro, their expression of distinct transcription factors (including PU.1) and their copious production of IL-9. It remains debatable whether these cells represent a truly unique TH cell subset in vivo, but they are closely related to the T helper 2 (TH2) cells that are detected in allergic diseases. In recent years, increasing evidence has also indicated that IL-9-producing T cells may have potent abilities in eradicating advanced tumours, particularly melanomas. Here, we review the latest literature on the development of IL-9-producing T cells and their functions in disease settings, with a particular focus on allergy and cancer. We also discuss recent ideas concerning the therapeutic targeting of these cells in patients with chronic allergic diseases and their potential use in cancer immunotherapy.
Notch signaling is the dominant intercellular signaling input during the earliest stages of T cell development in the thymus. Although Notch1 is known to be indispensable, we show that it does not mediate all Notch signaling in precommitment stages: Notch2 initially works in parallel to promote early murine T cell development and antagonize other fates. Notch-regulated target genes before and after T lineage commitment change dynamically, and we show that this partially reflects shifts in genome-wide DNA binding by RBPJ, the transcription factor activated by complex formation with the Notch intracellular domain. Although Notch signaling and transcription factor PU.1 can activate some common targets in precommitment T progenitors, Notch signaling and PU.1 activity have functionally antagonistic effects on multiple targets, delineating separation of pro-T cells from alternative PU.1-dependent fates. These results define a distinct mechanism of Notch signal response that distinguishes the initial stages of murine T cell development.
We aimed at identifying the developmental stage at which leukemic cells of pediatric T-ALLs are arrested and at defining leukemogenic mechanisms based on ATAC-Seq. Chromatin accessibility maps of seven developmental stages of human healthy T cells revealed progressive chromatin condensation during T-cell maturation. Developmental stages were distinguished by 2,823 signature chromatin regions with 95% accuracy. Open chromatin surrounding SAE1 was identified to best distinguish thymic developmental stages suggesting a potential role of SUMOylation in T-cell development. Deconvolution using signature regions revealed that T-ALLs, including those with mature immunophenotypes, resemble the most immature populations, which was confirmed by TF-binding motif profiles. We integrated ATAC-Seq and RNA-Seq and found DAB1, a gene not related to leukemia previously, to be overexpressed, abnormally spliced and hyper-accessible in T-ALLs. DAB1-negative patients formed a distinct subgroup with particularly immature chromatin profiles and hyper-accessible binding sites for SPI1 (PU.1), a TF crucial for normal T-cell maturation. In conclusion, our analyses of chromatin accessibility and TF-binding motifs showed that pediatric T-ALL cells are most similar to immature thymic precursors, indicating an early developmental arrest.
B-cell migration within lymph nodes (LNs) is crucial to adaptive immune responses. Chemotactic gradients are proposed to drive migration of B cells into follicles, followed by their relocation to specific zones of the follicle during activation, and ultimately egress. However, the molecular drivers of these processes and the cells generating chemotactic signals that affect B cells in human LNs are not well understood. We used immunofluorescence microscopy, flow cytometry and functional assays to study molecular mechanisms of B-cell migration within human LNs, and found subtle but important differences to previous murine models. In human LNs we find CXCL13 is prominently expressed at the follicular edge, often associated with fibroblastic reticular cells located in these areas, whereas follicular dendritic cells show minimal contribution to CXCL13 expression. Human B cells rapidly downregulate CXCR5 on encountering CXCL13, but recover CXCR5 expression in the CXCL13-low environment. These data suggest that the CXCL13 gradient in human LNs is likely to be different from that proposed in mice. We also identify CD68+ CD11c+ PU.1+ tingible body macrophages within both primary and secondary follicles as likely drivers of the sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) gradient that mediates B-cell egress from LNs, through their expression of the S1P-degrading enzyme, S1P lyase. Based on our findings, we present a model of B-cell migration within human LNs, which has both similarities and interesting differences to that proposed for mice.
The development of TCRαβ and TCRγδ T cells comprises a step-wise process in which regulatory events control differentiation and lineage outcome. To clarify these mechanisms, we employed RNA-sequencing, ATAC-sequencing and ChIPmentation on well-defined thymocyte subsets that represent the continuum of human T cell development. The chromatin accessibility dynamics show clear stage specificity and reveal that human T cell-lineage commitment is marked by GATA3- and BCL11B-dependent closing of PU.1 sites. A temporary increase in H3K27me3 without open chromatin modifications is unique for β-selection, whereas emerging γδ T cells, which originate from common precursors of β-selected cells, show large chromatin accessibility changes due to strong T cell receptor (TCR) signaling. Furthermore, we unravel distinct chromatin landscapes between CD4+ and CD8+ αβ-lineage cells that support their effector functions and reveal gene-specific mechanisms that define mature T cells. This resource provides a framework for studying gene regulatory mechanisms that drive normal and malignant human T cell development.
Differentiation of the HSCs into myeloid lineage is primarily monitored by transcription factor PU.1. GATA1 acts as a negative regulator by antagonizing the function of PU.1 by bindings its β3/β4 domain. In this study, a mutation was induced in PU.1 which blocks its interaction with GATA1. The pure form of this mutant protein i.e Y244D was loaded on poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles to transfect CD34+ cells, which act as a selective tool to enhance the myelopoiesis, as confirmed by flow cytometry analysis. Further, microarray data analysis was performed to gather information on myelopoiesis specific signaling pathways and genes involved in myelopoiesis like CCL2, S100A8, and S100A9, which were also found to be significantly upregulated in the mutant form. Different molecular functions like antioxidant activity, signal transduction, developmental processes, and biological adhesion were analyzed. This study potentially signifies that PU.1 mutant is highly efficient in myelopoiesis.
Aim: As tumor causes atrophy in the thymus to target effector-T cells, this study is aimed to decipher the efficacy of neem leaf glycoprotein (NLGP) in tumor- and age-associated thymic atrophy. Materials & methods: Different thymus parameters were studied using flow cytometry, reverse transcriptase PCR and immunocyto-/histochemistry in murine melanoma and sarcoma models. Results: Longitudinal NLGP therapy in tumor hosts show tumor-reduction along with significant normalization of thymic alterations. NLGP downregulates intrathymic IL-10, which eventually promotes Notch1 to rescue blockade in CD25+CD44+c-Kit+DN2 to CD25+CD44-c-Kit-DN3 transition in T cell maturation and suppress Ikaros/IRF8/Pu.1 to prevent DN2-T to DC differentiation in tumor hosts. The CD5intTCRαβhigh DP3 population was also increased to endorse CD8+ T cell generation. Conclusion: NLGP rescues tumor-induced altered thymic events to generate more effector T cells to restrain tumor.
Co-option of transposable elements (TEs) to become part of existing or new enhancers is an important mechanism for evolution of gene regulation. However, contributions of lineage-specific TE insertions to recent regulatory adaptations remain poorly understood. Gibbons present a suitable model to study these contributions as they have evolved a lineage-specific TE called LAVA (LINE-AluSz-VNTR-AluLIKE), which is still active in the gibbon genome. The LAVA retrotransposon is thought to have played a role in the emergence of the highly rearranged structure of the gibbon genome by disrupting transcription of cell cycle genes. In this study, we investigated whether LAVA may have also contributed to the evolution of gene regulation by adopting enhancer function. We characterized fixed and polymorphic LAVA insertions across multiple gibbons and found 96 LAVA elements overlapping enhancer chromatin states. Moreover, LAVA was enriched in multiple transcription factor binding motifs, was bound by an important transcription factor (PU.1), and was associated with higher levels of gene expression in cis We found gibbon-specific signatures of purifying/positive selection at 27 LAVA insertions. Two of these insertions were fixed in the gibbon lineage and overlapped with enhancer chromatin states, representing putative co-opted LAVA enhancers. These putative enhancers were located within genes encoding SETD2 and RAD9A, two proteins that facilitate accurate repair of DNA double-strand breaks and prevent chromosomal rearrangement mutations. Co-option of LAVA in these genes may have influenced regulation of processes that preserve genome integrity. Our findings highlight the importance of considering lineage-specific TEs in studying evolution of gene regulatory elements.
Dendritic cells (DCs) can orchestrate either immunogenic or tolerogenic responses to relay information on the functional state. Emerging studies indicate that circular RNAs (circRNAs) are involved in immunity; however, it remains unclear whether they govern DC development and function at the transcriptional level. In this study, we identified a central role for a novel circRNA, circSnx5, in modulating DC-driven immunity and tolerance. Ectopic circSnx5 suppresses DC activation and promotes the development of tolerogenic functions of DCs, while circSnx5 knockdown promotes their activation and inflammatory phenotype. Mechanistically, circSnx5 can act as a miR-544 sponge to attenuate miRNA-mediated target depression on suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1) and inhibit nuclear translocation of PU.1, regulating DC activation and function. Furthermore, the main splicing factors (SFs) were identified in DCs, of which heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) C was essential for circSnx5 generation. Moreover, our data demonstrated that vaccination with circSnx5-conditioned DCs prolonged cardiac allograft survival in mice and alleviated experimental autoimmune myocarditis. Taken together, our results revealed circSnx5 as a key modulator to fine-tune DC function, suggesting that circSnx5 may serve as a potential therapeutic avenue for immune-related diseases.
IL-4 activates macrophages to adopt distinct phenotypes associated with clearance of helminth infections and tissue repair, but the phenotype depends on the cellular lineage of these macrophages. The molecular basis of chromatin remodeling in response to IL-4 stimulation in tissue-resident and monocyte-derived macrophages is not understood. In this study, we find that IL-4 activation of different lineages of peritoneal macrophages in mice is accompanied by lineage-specific chromatin remodeling in regions enriched with binding motifs of the pioneer transcription factor PU.1. PU.1 motif is similarly associated with both tissue-resident and monocyte-derived IL-4-induced accessible regions but has different lineage-specific DNA shape features and predicted cofactors. Mutation studies based on natural genetic variation between C57BL/6 and BALB/c mouse strains indicate that accessibility of these IL-4-induced regions can be regulated through differences in DNA shape without direct disruption of PU.1 motifs. We propose a model whereby DNA shape features of stimulation-dependent genomic elements contribute to differences in the accessible chromatin landscape of alternatively activated macrophages on different genetic backgrounds that may contribute to phenotypic variations in immune responses.
Precursor B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is caused by genetic lesions in developing B cells that function as drivers for the accumulation of additional mutations in an evolutionary selection process. We investigated secondary drivers of leukemogenesis in a mouse model of B-ALL driven by PU.1/Spi-B deletion (Mb1-CreΔPB). Whole-exome-sequencing analysis revealed recurrent mutations in Jak3 (encoding Janus kinase 3), Jak1, and Ikzf3 (encoding Aiolos). Mutations with a high variant-allele frequency (VAF) were dominated by C→T transition mutations that were compatible with activation-induced cytidine deaminase, whereas the majority of mutations, with a low VAF, were dominated by C→A transversions associated with 8-oxoguanine DNA damage caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS). The Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor ruxolitinib delayed leukemia onset, reduced ROS and ROS-induced gene expression signatures, and altered ROS-induced mutational signatures. These results reveal that JAK mutations can alter the course of leukemia clonal evolution through ROS-induced DNA damage.
PD-L2, which has been identified as a PD-1 ligand, is specifically expressed in dendritic cells (DCs) and macrophages. The transcription factors that determine the cell type-specific expression of PD-L2 are largely unknown, although PD-1 and its ligands, which have been shown to play important roles in T cell suppression, have been vigorously analyzed in the field of cancer immunology. To reveal the mechanism by which Pdcd1lg2 gene expression is regulated, we focused on DCs, which play key roles in innate and acquired immunity. The knockdown of the hematopoietic cell-specific transcription factors PU.1 and IRF4 decreased PD-L2 expression in GM-CSF-induced mouse bone marrow-derived DCs. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, luciferase assays, and electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated that PU.1 and IRF4 bound directly to the Pdcd1lg2 gene via an Ets-IRF composite element sequence and coordinately transactivated the Pdcd1lg2 gene. Furthermore, PU.1 knockdown reduced the histone acetylation of the Pdcd1lg2 gene. The knockdown of the typical histone acetyltransferase p300, which has been reported to interact with PU.1, decreased the expression and H3K27 acetylation of the Pdcd1lg2 gene. GM-CSF stimulation upregulated the Pdcd1lg2 gene expression, which was accompanied by an increase in PU.1 binding and histone acetylation in Flt3L-generated mouse bone marrow-derived DCs. The involvement of PU.1, IRF4, and p300 were also observed in mouse splenic DCs. Overall, these results indicate that PU.1 positively regulates Pdcd1lg2 gene expression as a transactivator and an epigenetic regulator in DCs.
Niclosamide is a potent inhibitor of osteoclastogenesis and bone remodeling. DK-520 is an acyl derivative of Niclosamide and significantly increased both the plasma concentration and the duration of exposure of Niclosamide when dosed orally. However, at present the effect of DK-520 on osteoclastogenesis has not been reported. Here, we investigated whether DK-520 can regulate receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclastogenesis of bone marrow macrophages (BMMs) in vitro. Following induction of BMMs with RANKL for three days, we detected differentiated osteoclasts with typical morphology and high levels of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), RANKL, and cathepsin K (CTSK) expression. Treatment with either Niclosamide or DK-520 did not affect the viability of osteoclast precursors (OCPs), but significantly inhibited RANKL-induced transdifferentiation of macrophages into OCPs, particularly in the early stage of osteoclastogenesis. Both Niclosamide and DK-520 significantly decreased the relative levels of transcription factor PU.1 mRNA transcripts and dendritic cell-specific transmembrane protein (DC-STAMP), but not v-ATPasev0 d2 protein expression in OCPs. In addition, the inhibitory effect of DK-520 on osteoclastogenesis is realized through impairment of the NF-kB (nuclear factor-κB) and MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) signaling pathways. These results demonstrate that DK-520, like Niclosamide, effectively inhibits the early stage of osteoclastogenesis. The findings presented here, together with its increased oral plasma concentrations and bioavailability, suggest that DK-520 may be a promising drug candidate for treatment of osteoclast-related diseases.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia, affecting two-thirds of people with dementia in the world. To date, no disease-modifying treatments are available to stop or delay the progression of AD. This chronic neurodegenerative disease is dominated by a strong innate immune response, whereby microglia plays a central role as the main resident macrophage of the brain. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in microglial genes and associated with a delayed onset of AD, highlighting the important role of these cells on the onset and/or progression of the disease. These findings have increased the interest in targeting microglia-associated neuroinflammation as a potentially disease-modifying therapeutic approach for AD. In this review we provide an overview on the contribution of microglia to the pathophysiology of AD, focusing on the main regulatory pathways controlling microglial population dynamics during the neuroinflammatory response, such as the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R), its ligands (the colony-stimulating factor 1 and interleukin 34) and the transcription factor PU.1. We also discuss the current therapeutic strategies targeting proliferation to modulate microglia-associated neuroinflammation and their potential impact on peripheral immune cell populations in the short and long-term. Understanding the effects of immunomodulatory approaches on microglia and other immune cell types might be critical for developing specific, effective, and safe therapies for neurodegenerative diseases.
Molecular noise is a natural phenomenon that is inherent to all biological systems1,2. How stochastic processes give rise to the robust outcomes that support tissue homeostasis remains unclear. Here we use single-molecule RNA fluorescent in situ hybridization (smFISH) on mouse stem cells derived from haematopoietic tissue to measure the transcription dynamics of three key genes that encode transcription factors: PU.1 (also known as Spi1), Gata1 and Gata2. We find that infrequent, stochastic bursts of transcription result in the co-expression of these antagonistic transcription factors in the majority of haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Moreover, by pairing smFISH with time-lapse microscopy and the analysis of pedigrees, we find that although individual stem-cell clones produce descendants that are in transcriptionally related states-akin to a transcriptional priming phenomenon-the underlying transition dynamics between states are best captured by stochastic and reversible models. As such, a stochastic process can produce cellular behaviours that may be incorrectly inferred to have arisen from deterministic dynamics. We propose a model whereby the intrinsic stochasticity of gene expression facilitates, rather than impedes, the concomitant maintenance of transcriptional plasticity and stem cell robustness.
As macrophages exhibit a huge functional plasticity under homeostasis and pathological conditions, they have become a therapeutic target for chronic inflammatory diseases. Hence, the identification of macrophage subset-specific markers is a requisite for the development of macrophage-directed therapeutic interventions. In this regard, the macrophage-specific Folate Receptor β (FRβ, encoded by the FOLR2 gene) has been already validated as a target for molecular delivery in cancer as well as in macrophage-targeting therapeutic strategies for chronic inflammatory pathologies. We now show that the transcriptome of human macrophages from healthy and inflamed tissues (tumor; rheumatoid arthritis, RA) share a significant over-representation of the "anti-inflammatory gene set", which defines the gene profile of M-CSF-dependent IL-10-producing human macrophages (M-MØ). More specifically, FOLR2 expression has been found to strongly correlate with the expression of M-MØ-specific genes in tissue-resident macrophages, tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) and macrophages from inflamed synovium, and also correlates with the presence of the PU.1 transcription factor. In fact, PU.1-binding elements are found upstream of the first exon of FOLR2 and most M-MØ-specific- and TAM-specific genes. The functional relevance of PU.1 binding was demonstrated through analysis of the proximal regulatory region of the FOLR2 gene, whose activity was dependent on a cluster of PU.1-binding sequences. Further, siRNA-mediated knockdown established the importance of PU.1 for FOLR2 gene expression in myeloid cells. Therefore, we provide evidence that FRβ marks tissue-resident macrophages as well as macrophages within inflamed tissues, and its expression is dependent on PU.1.
Osteoclasts are derived from mononuclear phagocyte lineage cells and are indispensable for bone resorption. Recent findings suggest that fetal yolk sac macrophage progenitors give rise to neonatal osteoclasts, while hematopoietic stem cell-derived cells, such as monocytes, contribute to maintaining osteoclast syncytia in vivo. Osteoclast differentiation is dependent on macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL) signaling that mediates global epigenetic and transcriptional changes. PU.1 is a transcription factor that establishes cell type-specific enhancer landscapes in osteoclast precursors and mature osteoclasts by collaborating with interferon regulatory factor-8 (IRF8) and nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFATc1), respectively. Irf8 and Nfatc1 genes are tightly controlled by epigenetic mechanisms such as DNA methylation and histone modifications during osteoclastogenesis. Thus, key transcription factors orchestrate osteoclast-specific transcription regulatory networks through epigenetic modifications. In this review, we discuss recent advances in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in osteoclast development.
NF-κB is a transcription factor that activates super enhancers (SEs) and typical enhancers (TEs) and triggers threshold and graded gene expression, respectively. However, the mechanisms by which NF-κB selectively participates in these enhancers remain unclear. Here we show using mouse primary B lymphocytes that SE activity simultaneously associates with chromatin opening and enriched NF-κB binding, resulting in a higher fold change and threshold expression upon B cell receptor (BCR) activation. The higher fold change results from longer DNA, whereas the threshold response is explained by synergy in DNA-NF-κB binding and is supported by the coexistence of PU.1 and NF-κB in a SE before cell stimulation. This model indicates that the pre-existing NF-κB functions as a seed and triggers its processive binding upon BCR activation. Our mathematical modeling of the single-cell transcriptome reveals an additional role for SEs in divergent clonal responses in B cells.
HIV-associated neuroinflammation is primarily driven by CNS macrophages including microglia. Regulation of these immune responses, however, remains to be characterized in detail. Using the SIV/macaque model of HIV, we evaluated CNS expression of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) which is constitutively expressed by microglia and contributes to cell survival, proliferation, and differentiation. Loss-of-function mutations in TREM2 are recognized risk factors for neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Nasu-Hakola disease (NHD); recent reports have also indicated a role for TREM2 in HIV-associated neuroinflammation. Using in situ hybridization (ISH) and qRT-PCR, TREM2 mRNA levels were found to be significantly elevated in frontal cortex of macaques with SIV encephalitis compared with uninfected controls (P = 0.02). TREM2 protein levels were also elevated as measured by ELISA of frontal cortex tissue homogenates in these animals. Previously, we characterized the expression of CSF1R (colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor) in this model; the TREM2 and CSF1R promoters both contain a PU.1 binding site. While TREM2 and CSF1R mRNA levels in the frontal cortex were highly correlated (Spearman R = 0.79, P < 0.001), protein levels were not well correlated. In SIV-infected macaques released from ART to study viral rebound, neither TREM2 nor CSF1R mRNA increased with rebound viremia. However, CSF1R protein levels remained significantly elevated unlike TREM2 (P = 0.02). This differential expression suggests that TREM2 and CSF1R play unique, distinct roles in the pathogenesis of HIV CNS disease.
The introduction of anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab, ofatumumab, or obinutuzumab improved the therapy of B-cell malignancies even though the precise physiological role and regulation of CD20 remains unclear. Furthermore, CD20 expression is highly variable between different B-cell malignancies, patients with the same malignancy, and even between intraclonal subpopulations in an individual patient. Several epigenetic (EZH2, HDAC1/2, HDAC1/4, HDAC6, complex Sin3A-HDAC1) and transcription factors (USF, OCT1/2, PU.1, PiP, ELK1, ETS1, SP1, NFκB, FOXO1, CREM, SMAD2/3) regulating CD20 expression (encoded by MS4A1) have been characterized. CD20 is induced in the context of microenvironmental interactions by CXCR4/SDF1 (CXCL12) chemokine signaling and the molecular function of CD20 has been linked to the signaling propensity of B-cell receptor (BCR). CD20 has also been shown to interact with multiple other surface proteins on B cells (such as CD40, MHCII, CD53, CD81, CD82, and CBP). Current efforts to combine anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies with BCR signaling inhibitors targeting BTK or PI3K (ibrutinib, acalabrutinib, idelalisib, duvelisib) or BH3-mimetics (venetoclax) lead to the necessity to better understand both the mechanisms of regulation and the biological functions of CD20. This is underscored by the observation that CD20 is decreased in response to the "BCR inhibitor" ibrutinib which largely prevents its successful combination with rituximab. Several small molecules (such as histone deacetylase inhibitors, DNA methyl-transferase inhibitors, aurora kinase A/B inhibitors, farnesyltransferase inhibitors, FOXO1 inhibitors, and bryostatin-1) are being tested to upregulate cell-surface CD20 levels and increase the efficacy of anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies. Herein, we review the current understanding of CD20 function, and the mechanisms of its regulation in normal and malignant B cells, highlighting the therapeutic implications.
Comment in    Blood. 2020 Jul 30;136(5):527-529.
BACKGROUND: Immune-related pancytopenia (IRP) is a kind of autoimmune disease mediated by autoantibodies in bone marrow. T helper 9 (Th9) cell is a new subset of T cell discovered recently, which mainly expresses cytokine interleukin-9 (IL-9) to exert immune function. Th9 cells are associated with a variety of inflammatory diseases, but the role of Th9 cells in IRP remains unclear.METHODS: Fifty patients with IRP and 20 healthy controls were enrolled. The percentage of Th9 cells was detected by flow cytometry (FCM) and ELISA. CD4+ lymphocytes were sorted by magnetic beads, and the mRNA expression levels of Th9 cells related transcription factors PU.1 and BATF were detected by RT-PCR.RESULTS: The percentage of Th9 cells in CD3+CD4+ cells was 2.73 ± 1.96% in the untreated group, which was significantly higher than those in the remission group (1.21 ± 0.86%) (p < 0.01) and the control group (0.68 ± 0.40%) (p < 0.001). And that in the remission group was significantly higher than that in the control group (p < 0.05). The level of IL-9 in the untreated group was 183.91 ± 112.42 pg/mL, which was significantly higher than that in the remission group (105.96 ± 64.79 pg/mL) (p < 0.01) and control group (56.03 ± 14.49 pg/mL) (p < 0.001). That in the remission group was also significantly higher than that in the control group (p < 0.01). They were negatively correlated with hemoglobin, red blood cell, white blood cell, and platelet counts and positively correlated with the percentage of CD19+B cells and CD5+CD19+/CD19+B cells, respectively. The mRNA expression levels of PU.1 and BATF in IRP patients were higher than those in controls (p < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: The percentage of Th9 cells in the peripheral blood and the level of IL-9 in the serum of patients with IRP were increased, which was related to the severity of the disease.
Studies on macrophage gene expression have historically focused on events leading to RNA polymerase II recruitment and transcription initiation, whereas the contribution of post-initiation steps to macrophage activation remains poorly understood. Here, we report that widespread promoter-proximal RNA polymerase II pausing in resting macrophages is marked by co-localization of the negative elongation factor (NELF) complex and facilitated by PU.1. Upon inflammatory stimulation, over 60% of activated transcriptome is regulated by polymerase pause-release and a transient genome-wide NELF dissociation from chromatin, unexpectedly, independent of CDK9, a presumed NELF kinase. Genetic disruption of NELF in macrophages enhanced transcription of AP-1-encoding Fos and Jun and, consequently, AP-1 targets including Il10. Augmented expression of IL-10, a critical anti-inflammatory cytokine, in turn, attenuated production of pro-inflammatory mediators and, ultimately, macrophage-mediated inflammation in vivo. Together, these findings establish a previously unappreciated role of NELF in constraining transcription of inflammation inhibitors thereby enabling inflammatory macrophage activation.
BACKGROUND: The colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) regulates microglia/macrophage proliferation, differentiation and survival; however, the precise role of this protein in psychiatric disorders is unknown. CSF1R is also known to interact with the transcription factor PU.1 (SPI1). Here we studied whether the expressions of CSF1R and SPI1 are altered in the postmortem samples (parietal cortex, cerebellum, spleen) from patients with major psychiatric disorders.METHODS: Protein expression of CSF1R and SPI1 in the parietal cortex, cerebellum and spleen from control, major depressive disorder (MDD), schizophrenia (SZ), and bipolar disorder (BD) groups was measured.RESULTS: Levels of CSF1R in the spleen, but not cerebellum and parietal cortex, from MDD and SZ groups were significantly lower than the control group. There was a positive correlation between CSF1R levels in the spleen and CSF1R levels in the parietal cortex in the all subjects from four groups. Furthermore, levels of SPI1 in the cerebellum and spleen from MDD and SZ groups were significantly higher than the control group. Levels of SPI1 in the parietal cortex were not different among the four groups. Interestingly, there was a negative correlation between CSF1R and SPI1 levels in the spleen of the all subjects from four groups. There was also a negative correlation between CSF1R and SPI1 levels in the spleen of MDD group.LIMITATIONS: The small number in each group may limit our interpretation.CONCLUSIONS: Abnormalities in CSF1R and SPI1 in the brain-spleen axis might, in part, play a role in the pathophysiology of MDD.
trans‑Resveratrol (Rsv) is a natural compound contained in red wine and grape skins that has various beneficial effects for organisms such as lengthening of their life span. Rsv induces expression of the human TP53 and HELB genes, which are involved in the regulation of DNA maintenance. In the present study, a luciferase expression vector containing 309 bp of the 5' upstream end of the human MCM4 gene was transfected into HeLa S3 cells. A luciferase assay revealed that Rsv treatment increased the minichromosome maintenance 4 (MCM4) gene promoter activity by GC‑box and GGAA (TTCC) motifs. Electro phoretic mobility shift assay revealed that the specific binding factor (complex) contains PU.1 (SPI1). Quantitative reverse transcription‑polymerase chain reaction analysis indicated that MCM4 gene expression was transiently induced by Rsv. Moreover, western blotting revealed that the SP1/PU.1 ratio markedly increased after Rsv treatment, indicating that a balance or profile of these transcription factors may control Rsv‑inducible initiation of transcription. These observations indicated that the beneficial effects of Rsv can be attributed to induction of the chromosomal DNA maintenance factor encoding gene expression.
Impairment of microglial clearance activity contributes to beta-amyloid (Aβ) pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD). While the transcriptome profile of microglia directs microglial functions, how the microglial transcriptome can be regulated to alleviate AD pathology is largely unknown. Here, we show that injection of interleukin (IL)-33 in an AD transgenic mouse model ameliorates Aβ pathology by reprogramming microglial epigenetic and transcriptomic profiles to induce a microglial subpopulation with enhanced phagocytic activity. These IL-33-responsive microglia (IL-33RMs) express a distinct transcriptome signature that is highlighted by increased major histocompatibility complex class II genes and restored homeostatic signature genes. IL-33-induced remodeling of chromatin accessibility and PU.1 transcription factor binding at the signature genes of IL-33RM control their transcriptome reprogramming. Specifically, disrupting PU.1-DNA interaction abolishes the microglial state transition and Aβ clearance that is induced by IL-33. Thus, we define a PU.1-dependent transcriptional pathway that drives the IL-33-induced functional state transition of microglia, resulting in enhanced Aβ clearance.
C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7) is expressed on naïve T cells, B cells, and activated dendritic cells (DCs). We previously demonstrated that the transcription factor PU.1/Spi1 positively regulates the expression of CCR7 in DCs. In the present study, we investigated the role of PU.1 in CCR7 expression in T cells. To confirm whether PU.1 is involved in the expression of CCR7, we conducted a ChIP assay in various T cells purified from splenocytes and thymocytes and found that PU.1 binds to the Ccr7 promoter-proximal region in spleen naïve CD4+ T cells, but not in thymocytes. Small interfering RNA-mediated PU.1 knockdown resulted in decreased CCR7 expression in spleen naïve CD4+ T cells. Compared to naïve CD4+ T cells, Spi1 and Ccr7 mRNA levels decreased in Th1 and Th2 cells, in which PU.1 did not bind to the Ccr7 promoter, suggesting that CCR7 expression decreases due to the dissociation of PU.1 from the Ccr7 promoter during the development of effector T cells from naïve T cells. Collectively, we concluded that CCR7 expression level correlates with the binding level of PU.1 to the Ccr7 promoter and PU.1 acts as a transcriptional activator of the Ccr7 gene in naïve CD4+ T cells.
The transcription factor IRF8 (ICSBP) is required for the development and maturation of myeloid cells (dendritic cells, monocytes, macrophages), and for expression of intrinsic anti-microbial function such as antigen capture, processing and presentation to lymphoid cells, and for activation of these cells in response to cytokines and pro-inflammatory stimuli (IFN-γ, IFN-β, LPS). IRF8 deficiency in humans causes a severe primary immunodeficiency presenting as susceptibility to infections, complete or severe depletion of blood dendritic cells (DC) subsets, depletion of CD14+ and CD16+ monocytes and reduced numbers and impaired activity of NK cells. In genome-wide association studies (GWAS), sequence variants near IRF8 are significant risk factors for multiple chronic inflammatory diseases in humans including inflammatory bowel disease, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and several others. Recent studies have cataloged all the genes bound by and transcriptionally activated by IRF8 in myeloid cells, either alone or in combination with other transcription factors (PU.1, IRF1, STAT1) at steady state and in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli. This IRF1/IRF8 regulome comprises immune pathways such as antigen processing and presentation pathways, expression of costimulatory molecules, cytokines and chemokines, response to stimuli such as cytokine receptors, pathogen-associated molecular pattern receptors, TLRs and nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor signaling pathways, and small antiviral GTPases. Members of the IRF8/IRF1 regulome are over-represented amongst genes in which mutations cause primary immunodeficiencies, and are specifically enriched at GWAS loci associated with chronic inflammatory diseases in humans. These recent studies highlight a critical role of IRF8 in the activity of several immune cell types for protection against infections, but also in pathological inflammation associated with common human inflammatory conditions.
CCTC-binding factor (CTCF) is a key regulator of gene expression through organization of the chromatin structure. Still, it is unclear how CTCF binding is perturbed in leukemia or in cancer in general. We studied CTCF binding by chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing in cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and in normal bone marrow (NBM) in the context of gene expression, DNA methylation, and azacitidine exposure. CTCF binding was increased in AML compared with NBM. Aberrant CTCF binding was enriched for motifs for key myeloid transcription factors such as CEBPA, PU.1, and RUNX1. AML with TET2 mutations was characterized by a particularly strong gain of CTCF binding, highly enriched for gain in promoter regions, while AML in general was enriched for changes at enhancers. There was a strong anticorrelation between CTCF binding and DNA methylation. Gain of CTCF occupancy was associated with increased gene expression; however, the genomic location (promoter vs distal regions) and enrichment of motifs (for repressing vs activating cofactors) were decisive for the gene expression pattern. Knockdown of CTCF in K562 cells caused loss of CTCF binding and transcriptional repression of genes with changed CTCF binding in AML, as well as loss of RUNX1 binding at RUNX1/CTCF-binding sites. In addition, CTCF knockdown caused increased differentiation. Azacitidine exposure caused major changes in CTCF occupancy in AML patient cells, partly by restoring a CTCF-binding pattern similar to NBM. We conclude that AML displays an aberrant increase in CTCF occupancy that targets key genes for AML development and impacts gene expression.
Monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmunity, but the molecular pathways determining the differentiation potential of these cells remain unclear. Here, we report that microRNA-148a (miR-148a) serves as a critical regulator for moDC differentiation. First, miR-148a deficiency impaired the moDC development in vitro and in vivo. A mechanism study showed that MAFB, a transcription factor that hampers moDC differentiation, was a direct target of miR-148a. In addition, a promoter study identified that miR-148a could be transcriptionally induced by PU.1, which is crucial for moDC generation. miR-148a ablation eliminated the inhibition of PU.1 on MAFB. Furthermore, we found that miR-148a increased in monocytes from patients with psoriasis, and miR-148a deficiency or intradermal injection of antagomir-148a immensely alleviated the development of psoriasis-like symptoms in a psoriasis-like mouse model. Therefore, these results identify a pivotal role for the PU.1-miR-148a-MAFB circuit in moDC differentiation and suggest a potential therapeutic avenue for autoimmunity.
ISWI chromatin remodeling ATPase SMARCA5 (SNF2H) is a well-known factor for its role in regulation of DNA access via nucleosome sliding and assembly. SMARCA5 transcriptionally inhibits the myeloid master regulator PU.1. Upregulation of SMARCA5 was previously observed in CD34+ hematopoietic progenitors of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients. Since high levels of SMARCA5 are necessary for intensive cell proliferation and cell cycle progression of developing hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells in mice, we reasoned that removal of SMARCA5 enzymatic activity could affect the cycling or undifferentiated state of leukemic progenitor-like clones. Indeed, we observed that CRISPR/cas9-mediated SMARCA5 knockout in AML cell lines (S5KO) inhibited the cell cycle progression. We also observed that the SMARCA5 deletion induced karyorrhexis and nuclear budding as well as increased the ploidy, indicating its role in mitotic division of AML cells. The cytogenetic analysis of S5KO cells revealed the premature chromatid separation. We conclude that deleting SMARCA5 in AML blocks leukemic proliferation and chromatid cohesion.
Flavobacterium psychrophilum is the causative agent of bacterial cold-water disease and rainbow trout syndrome in freshwater salmonid fish worldwide, generating injuries and high mortality rates. Despite several studies on this bacterium, the infection mechanism remains unknown due to limitations in the employed animal models. In this work, we propose using zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a model for studying bacterial pathogenicity. To substantiate this proposal, zebrafish infection by F. psychrophilum strain JIP 02/86 was characterized. Zebrafish larvae were infected using the bath method, and morphological changes and innate immune system activation were monitored using transgenic fish. Salmonid-like infection phenotypes were observed in 4.74% of treated larvae, as manifested by fin, muscle and caudal peduncle damage. Symptomatic and dead larvae accounted for 1.35% of all challenged larvae. Interestingly, infected larvae with no infection phenotypes showed stronger innate immune system activation than specimens with phenotypes. A failure of function assay for myeloid factor pu.1 resulted in more infected larvae (up to 43.5%), suggesting that low infection rates by F. psychrophilum would be due to the protective actions of the innate immune system against this bacterium in zebrafish larvae. Our results support the use of zebrafish as an infection model for studying F. psychrophilum. Furthermore, the percentage of infected fish can be modulated by disturbing, to varying extents, the differentiation of myeloid cells. Using this evidence as a starting point, different aspects of the infection mechanism of F. psychrophilum could be studied in vivo.
CONTEXT.—: Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma (UPS) of soft tissue is defined as a sarcoma with no recognizable line of differentiation. During the past few decades, advances in ancillary studies and review of prior UPS diagnoses have narrowed the category of UPS by excluding more-specific malignancies. However, few of those studies have specifically targeted pleomorphic hematolymphoid neoplasms.OBJECTIVE.—: To determine what fraction of UPS cases are misclassified pleomorphic hematolymphoid neoplasms, such as anaplastic large cell lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, histiocytic sarcoma (HS), myeloid sarcoma, and follicular dendritic cell sarcoma.DESIGN.—: Sixty-one UPS cases were screened by tissue microarray and an immunostain panel with subsequent analysis on whole block sections for suspicious cases.RESULTS.—: Five of 61 tumors (8%) were suggestive of HS based on the screening panel and were further evaluated with additional immunostains (PU.1, CD45, CD163) using whole sections. The 5 candidate HS cases were only focally positive for at most one stain with most staining in smaller, less-pleomorphic cells. Ultimately, no UPS met criteria for anaplastic large cell lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, myeloid sarcoma, follicular dendritic cell sarcoma, or HS.CONCLUSIONS.—: Our results suggest that a UPS of somatic soft tissue is unlikely to represent a misclassified hematopoietic malignancy. Exclusion of HS is most challenging, but immunostaining for PU.1, a nuclear transcription factor, may be easier to interpret in this context.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Obesity is a well-established risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2D) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), but the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Herein, we aimed to identify novel pathogenic factors (and possible therapeutic targets) underlying metabolic dysfunction in the liver.METHODS: We applied a tandem quantitative proteomics strategy to enrich and identify transcription factors (TFs) induced in the obese liver. We used flow cytometry of liver cells to analyze the source of the induced TFs. We employed conditional knockout mice, shRNA, and small-molecule inhibitors to test the metabolic consequences of the induction of identified TFs. Finally, we validated mouse data in patient liver biopsies.RESULTS: We identified PU.1/SPI1, the master hematopoietic regulator, as one of the most upregulated TFs in livers from diet-induced obese (DIO) and genetically obese (db/db) mice. Targeting PU.1 in the whole liver, but not hepatocytes alone, significantly improved glucose homeostasis and suppressed liver inflammation. Consistently, treatment with the PU.1 inhibitor DB1976 markedly reduced inflammation and improved glucose homeostasis and dyslipidemia in DIO mice, and strongly suppressed glucose intolerance, liver steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis in a dietary NASH mouse model. Furthermore, hepatic PU.1 expression was positively correlated with insulin resistance and inflammation in liver biopsies from patients.CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that the elevated hematopoietic factor PU.1 promotes liver metabolic dysfunction, and may be a useful therapeutic target for obesity, insulin resistance/T2D, and NASH.LAY SUMMARY: Expression of the immune regulator PU.1 is increased in livers of obese mice and people. Blocking PU.1 improved glucose homeostasis, and reduced liver steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis in mouse models of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Inhibition of PU.1 is thus a potential therapeutic strategy for treating obesity-associated liver dysfunction and metabolic diseases.
Among different organic fillers, the chemical composition of Syzygium aromaticum, commonly known as cloves, has great potential as a sustainable reinforcement for polymeric materials. In the study, grounded cloves were used as cellulosic filler for a novel polyurethane (PU) composite foams. Soybean oil-based PU composite foams were successfully reinforced with different concentrations (1, 2, and 5 wt%) of clove filler. PU foams were examined by rheological behavior, processing parameters, cellular structure (scanning electron microscopy analysis), mechanical properties (compression test, impact test, three-point bending test), thermal properties (thermogravimetric analysis), viscoelastic behavior (dynamic mechanical analysis) as well as selected application properties (apparent density, dimensional stability, surface hydrophobicity, water absorption, color characteristic). In order to undertake the disc diffusion method, all PU composites were tested against selected bacteria (Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus). Based on the results, it can be concluded that the addition of 1 and 2 wt% of clove filler leads to PU composite foams with improved compression strength (improvement by ≈18% for sample PU-1), greater flexural strength (increase of ≈11%), and improved impact strength (increase of ≈8%). Moreover, it has been proved that clove filler may be used as a natural anti-aging compound for polymeric materials. Based on the antibacterial results, it has been shown that the addition of clove filler significantly improved the antibacterial properties of PU foams and is suitable for the manufacturing of antimicrobial PU composite foams. Due to these positive and beneficial effects, it can be stated that the use of cloves as a natural filler in PU composite foams can promote a new application path in converting agricultural waste into useful resources for creating a new class of green materials.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents a major cause of cancer death, but the molecular mechanism for its development has not yet been well characterized. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are involved in a wide range of biological processes via their roles as oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes. The present study aimed to elucidate the role of LINC00324 in HCC through its interaction with Fas ligand (FasL). Initially, microarray-based gene expression profiling of HCC was employed to identify differentially expressed genes. Next, the expression of LINC00324 in HCC tissues and liver cancer stem cell (LCSC) lines was examined using RT-qPCR. Then, the interaction among LINC00324, PU box binding protein (PU.1) and FasL was identified with RIP, ChIP and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays. The effect of LINC00324 on viability, proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis as well as the tumorigenesis of transfected cells was examined with gain- and loss-of-function experiments. LINC00324 and FasL were highly expressed in HCC. LINC00324 regulated FasL expression via interaction with PU.1. Silencing of LINC00324 or FasL suppressed expression of stemness-related genes, cell viability, proliferation, migration, invasion, self-renewal, and tumorigenesis, but enhanced cell apoptosis. Taken together, LINC00324 promotes the expression of FasL through the recruitment of PU.1, which ultimately maintains the biological properties of LCSCs, thus, highlighting LINC00324 as a promising therapeutic candidate for HCC.
Transcription factors comprise a major reservoir of conformational disorder in the eukaryotic proteome. The hematopoietic master regulator PU.1 presents a well-defined model of the most common configuration of intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) in transcription factors. We report that the structured DNA binding domain (DBD) of PU.1 regulates gene expression via antagonistic dimeric states that are reciprocally controlled by cognate DNA on the one hand and by its proximal anionic IDR on the other. The two conformers are mediated by distinct regions of the DBD without structured contributions from the tethered IDRs. Unlike DNA-bound complexes, the unbound dimer is markedly destabilized. Dimerization without DNA is promoted by progressive phosphomimetic substitutions of IDR residues that are phosphorylated in immune activation and stimulated by anionic crowding agents. These results suggest a previously unidentified, nonstructural role for charged IDRs in conformational control by mitigating electrostatic penalties that would mask the interactions of highly cationic DBDs.
Comment on    Br J Haematol. 2020 Jan;188(1):184-187.    Br J Haematol. 2020 May;189(3):578-581.
Comment in    Br J Haematol. 2020 May;189(3):577-578.
Erratum for    Nat Commun. 2020 Jan 21;11(1):402.
Iron overload is an undesired effect of frequent blood transfusions or genetic diseases. Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients become transfusion dependent, but due to the combination of ineffective haematopoiesis and repeated blood transfusions they are often subject to iron overload. In this study, we demonstrate that iron-overload mimicking condition alters bone marrow progenitor differentiation towards dendritic cells (DCs). Cells cultured in iron-enriched culture medium for seven days fail to differentiate into conventional CD11c+MHCIIhi DCs and fail to efficiently respond to LPS (Lipopolysaccharides). Cells appear smaller than control DCs but vital and able to perform FITC-dextran (Fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran) endocytosis. At molecular level, cells cultured in iron-enriched conditions show increased ARG1 and PU.1, and decreased IRF8 expression.
HIRA is a histone chaperone that deposits the histone variant H3.3 in transcriptionally active genes. In DiGeorge syndromes, a DNA stretch encompassing HIRA is deleted. The syndromes manifest varied abnormalities, including immunodeficiency and thrombocytopenia. HIRA is essential in mice, as total knockout (KO) results in early embryonic death. However, the role of HIRA in hematopoiesis is poorly understood. We investigate hematopoietic cell-specific Hira deletion in mice and show that it dramatically reduces bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), resulting in anemia, thrombocytopenia, and lymphocytopenia. In contrast, fetal hematopoiesis is normal in Hira-KO mice, although fetal HSCs lack the reconstitution capacity. Transcriptome analysis reveals that HIRA is required for expression of many transcription factors and signaling molecules critical for HSCs. ATAC-seq analysis demonstrates that HIRA establishes HSC-specific DNA accessibility, including the SPIB/PU.1 sites. Together, HIRA provides a chromatin environment essential for HSCs, thereby steering their development and survival.
T cells can be categorized into functionally diverse subpopulations, which include Th1, Th2, Th9, Th17, Th22, and Tfh cells and Foxp3+ Tregs, based on their role in maintaining normal immune homeostasis and affecting pathological immune-associated diseases. Among these subpopulations, Th9 cells are relatively new, and less is known about their signaling and effects on tumor immunity. Recently, some studies have focused on regulation of the IL-9/IL-9R signaling pathway and Th9 cell differentiation and their roles in tumor environments. Herein, we summarize recent progress in understanding the regulatory signaling of IL-9 and Th9 cells and their critical roles and mechanisms in antitumor immunity.
Panax notoginseng (PN) has been used as a qi- and blood-activating (Huoxue) drug for thousands of years in China. It has also been widely used as an anticancer drug at present. As a Huoxue drug, the effect of PN on hematopoietic differentiation in tumor-bearing body has been paid more and more attention. Our research found that panax notoginseng saponins (PNS), especially panaxadiol saponins (PDS) and its aglucon 20(S)-Protopanaxdiol (PPD), could improve the immunosuppressive state by regulating the abnormal hematopoietic differentiation in a tumor-bearing body by multiple ways. An interesting phenomenon is that PDS reduced the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) via its inhibition effect on the granule-monocyte differentiation of spleen cells, which is associated with a decrease in the secretion of tumor MPO, G-CSF, PU.1, and C/EBPα. Otherwise, PDS increased the proportion of both hematopoietic stem cells and erythroid progenitor cells in the bone marrow, but inhibited spleen erythroid differentiation via inhibiting secretion of tumor EPO, GATA-1, and GATA-2. This study suggests that PNS regulated the tumor-induced abnormal granule-monocyte differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells, affecting the distribution and function of haemocytes in tumor-bearing mice.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2020 Feb 25;11(1):1139.
Author information:(1)College of Agriculture, Heilongjiang Bayi Agricultural University, Daqing 163319, Heilongjiang, China.(2)Heilongjiang Province Key Laboratory of Modern Agricultural Cultivation and Crop Germplasm Improvement, Daqing 163319, Heilongjiang, China.(3)1. College of Agriculture, Heilongjiang Bayi Agricultural University, Daqing 163319, Heilongjiang, China; 2. Heilongjiang Province Key Laboratory of Modern Agricultural Cultivation and Crop Germplasm Improvement, Daqing 163319, Heilongjiang, China.
Langerhans cells (LC) can prime tolerogenic as well as immunogenic responses in skin, but the genomic states and transcription factors (TF) regulating these context-specific responses are unclear. Bulk and single-cell transcriptional profiling demonstrates that human migratory LCs are robustly programmed for MHC-I and MHC-II antigen presentation. Chromatin analysis reveals enrichment of ETS-IRF and AP1-IRF composite regulatory elements in antigen-presentation genes, coinciding with expression of the TFs, PU.1, IRF4 and BATF3 but not IRF8. Migration of LCs from the epidermis is accompanied by upregulation of IRF4, antigen processing components and co-stimulatory molecules. TNF stimulation augments LC cross-presentation while attenuating IRF4 expression. CRISPR-mediated editing reveals IRF4 to positively regulate the LC activation programme, but repress NF2EL2 and NF-kB pathway genes that promote responsiveness to oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokines. Thus, IRF4-dependent genomic programming of human migratory LCs appears to enable LC maturation while attenuating excessive inflammatory and immunogenic responses in the epidermis.
Vitamin D can modulate the innate and adaptive immune system. Vitamin D deficiency has been associated with various autoimmune diseases. Th9 cells are implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous autoimmune diseases. Thus, we investigated the role of calcitriol (active metabolite of vitamin D) in the regulation of Th9 cell differentiation. In this study, we have unraveled the molecular mechanisms of calcitriol-mediated regulation of Th9 cell differentiation. Calcitriol significantly diminished IL-9 secretion from murine Th9 cells associated with downregulated expression of the Th9-associated transcription factor, PU.1. Ectopic expression of VDR in Th9 cells attenuated the percentage of IL-9-secreting cells. VDR associated with PU.1 in Th9 cells. Using a series of mutations, we were able to dissect the VDR domain involved in the regulation of the Il9 gene. The VDR-PU.1 interaction prevented the accessibility of PU.1 to the Il9 gene promoter, thereby restricting its expression. However, the expression of Foxp3, regulatory T cell-specific transcription factor, was enhanced in the presence of calcitriol in Th9 cells. When Th9 cells are treated with both calcitriol and trichostatin A (histone deacetylase inhibitor), the level of IL-9 reached to the level of wild-type untreated Th9 cells. Calcitriol attenuated specific histone acetylation at the Il9 gene. In contrast, calcitriol enhanced the recruitment of the histone modifier HDAC1 at the Il9 gene promoter. In summary, we have identified that calcitriol blocked the access of PU.1 to the Il9 gene by reducing its expression and associating with it as well as regulated the chromatin of the Il9 gene to regulate expression.
Cell reprogramming concepts have been classically developed in the fields of developmental and stem cell biology and are currently being explored for regenerative medicine, given its potential to generate desired cell types for replacement therapy. Cell fate can be experimentally reversed or modified by enforced expression of lineage specific transcription factors leading to pluripotency or attainment of another somatic cell type identity. The possibility to reprogram fibroblasts into induced dendritic cells (DC) competent for antigen presentation creates a paradigm shift for understanding and modulating the immune system with direct cell reprogramming. PU.1, IRF8, and BATF3 were identified as sufficient and necessary to impose DC fate in unrelated cell types, taking advantage of Clec9a, a C-type lectin receptor with restricted expression in conventional DC type 1. The identification of such minimal gene regulatory networks helps to elucidate the molecular mechanisms governing development and lineage heterogeneity along the hematopoietic hierarchy. Furthermore, the generation of patient-tailored reprogrammed immune cells provides new and exciting tools for the expanding field of cancer immunotherapy. Here, we summarize cell reprogramming concepts and experimental approaches, review current knowledge at the intersection of cell reprogramming with hematopoiesis, and propose how cell fate engineering can be merged to immunology, opening new opportunities to understand the immune system in health and disease.
Differentiating neutrophils undergo large-scale changes in nuclear morphology. How such alterations in structure are established and modulated upon exposure to microbial agents is largely unknown. Here, we found that prior to encounter with bacteria, an armamentarium of inflammatory genes was positioned in a transcriptionally passive environment suppressing premature transcriptional activation. Upon microbial exposure, however, human neutrophils rapidly (<3 h) repositioned the ensemble of proinflammatory genes toward the transcriptionally permissive compartment. We show that the repositioning of genes was closely associated with the swift recruitment of cohesin across the inflammatory enhancer landscape, permitting an immediate transcriptional response upon bacterial exposure. We found that activated enhancers, marked by increased deposition of H3K27Ac, were highly enriched for cistromic elements associated with PU.1, CEBPB, TFE3, JUN, and FOSL2 occupancy. These data reveal how upon microbial challenge the cohesin machinery is recruited to an activated enhancer repertoire to instruct changes in chromatin folding, nuclear architecture, and to activate an inflammatory gene program.
Digital light processing (DLP)-type 3D printing ensures several advantages, such as an easy solution process, a short printing time, high-quality printing, and selective light curing. Furthermore, polyurethane (PU) is among the promising candidates for 3D printing because of its wide range of applications. This work reports comparative studies on the fabrication and optimization of PU composites using a polyaniline (PANI) nanomaterial and a graphene sheet (GS) for DLP-type 3D printing. The morphologies and dispersion of the printed PU composites were studied by field emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM) images. Bonding structures in the PU composites were investigated by Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy. As-prepared PU/PANI and PU/GS composites with different filler contents were successfully printed into sculptures with different sizes and shapes. The PU/PANI and PU/GS composites exhibit the improved sheet resistance, which is up to 8.57 × 104 times (1.19 × 106 ohm/sq) lower and 1.27 × 105 times (8.05 × 105 ohm/sq) lower, respectively, than the pristine PU (1.02 × 1011 ohm/sq). Moreover, the PU/PANI and PU/GS composites demonstrate 1.41 times (44.5 MPa) higher and 2.19 times (69.3 MPa) higher tensile strengths compared with the pristine PU (31.6 MPa). This work suggests the potential uses of highly conductive PU composites for DLP-type 3D printing.
BACKGROUND: Trypanosoma cruzi (Tc) causes Chagas disease (CD) that is the most frequent cause of heart failure in Latin America. TNF-α+ monocytes/macrophages (Mo/Mφ) are associated with inflammatory pathology in chronic CD. In this study, we determined the progenitor lineage of Mo/Mφ contributing to inflammation and examined the regulatory role of SIRT1 in modulating the Mo/Mφ response in Chagas disease.METHODS AND RESULTS: C57BL/6 mice were infected with Tc, treated with SIRT1 agonist (SRT1720) after control of acute parasitemia, and monitored during chronic phase (150 days post-infection). Flow cytometry studies showed an increase in maturation of bone marrow hematopoietic stem cell (HSC)-derived Mo of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory phenotype in acutely- and chronically-infected mice; however, these cells were not increased in splenic compartment of infected mice. Instead, yolk-sac-derived CD11b+ F4/80+ Mo/Mφ were increased in sinusoidal compartment of Chagas mice. The splenic CD11b+ F4/80+ Mo/Mφ of Chagas (vs. control) mice exhibited increased mRNA, protein, and surface expression of markers of proinflammatory phenotype (CD80+/CD64+ > CD200+/CD206+) associated with proinflammatory cytokines response (IL-6+TNF-α >> Arg-1+IL-10), and these were also detected in the myocardium of chronically infected mice. Infected mice treated with SRT1720 (vs. infected/untreated) exhibited decreased splenic expansion and myocardial infiltration of proinflammatory Mo/Mφ. SRT1720 did not alter the inherent capability of splenic Mo/Mφ of Chagas mice to respond to pathogen stimulus. Instead, SRT1720 dampened the Tc-induced increase in the expression and/or phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and downstream transcription factors (Pu.1, c-Myb, and Runx1) involved in Mφ proliferation and migration and Notch1 involved in functional activation. Studies in cultured Mφ confirmed the agonistic effects of SIRT1 in controlling the Tc-induced, FAK-dependent increase in the expression of transcription factors and showed that SIRT1 agonist and FAK inhibitor abrogated the NF-κB transcriptional activity and inflammatory cytokine gene expression in Tc-infected Mφ.CONCLUSIONS: The proinflammatory Mo/Mφ of yolk sac origin drive the splenic and tissue inflammatory response in chronic CD. SRT1720 reprogrammed the Tc-induced FAK-dependent transcription factors involved in Mφ proliferation and proinflammatory activation in Chagas disease.
Comment in    J Chin Med Assoc. 2020 Apr;83(4):323-324.
The extraordinarily high prevalence of HTLV-1 subtype C (HTLV-1C) in some isolated indigenous communities in Oceania and the severity of the health conditions associated with the virus impress the great need for basic and translational research to prevent and treat HTLV-1 infection. The genome of the virus's most common subtype, HTLV-1A, encodes structural, enzymatic, and regulatory proteins that contribute to viral persistence and pathogenesis. Among these is the p30 protein encoded by the doubly spliced Tax-orf II mRNA, a nuclear/nucleolar protein with both transcriptional and post-transcriptional activity. The p30 protein inhibits the productive replication cycle via nuclear retention of the mRNA that encodes for both the viral transcriptional trans-activator Tax, and the Rex proteins that regulate the transport of incompletely spliced viral mRNA to the cytoplasm. In myeloid cells, p30 inhibits the PU-1 transcription factor that regulates interferon expression and is a critical mediator of innate and adaptive immunity. Furthermore, p30 alters gene expression, cell cycle progression, and DNA damage responses in T-cells, raising the hypothesis that p30 may directly contribute to T cell transformation. By fine-tuning viral expression while also inhibiting host innate responses, p30 is likely essential for viral infection and persistence. This concept is supported by the finding that macaques, a natural host for the closely genetically related simian T-cell leukemia virus 1 (STLV-1), exposed to an HTLV-1 knockout for p30 expression by a single point mutation do not became infected unless reversion and selection of the wild type HTLV-1 genotype occurs. All together, these data suggest that inhibition of p30 may help to curb and eventually eradicate viral infection by exposing infected cells to an effective host immune response.
The biomaterials with excellent biocompatibility and biodegradability ¬can lead to satisfactory wound healing. In this study, core-shell structured PU (polyurethane)/St (Starch) and PU/St (Hyaluronic Acid (HA)) nanofibers were fabricated with coaxial electrospinning technique. The morphology characterization of the core-shell structure of nanofibers was investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images. Contact-angle measurements were confirmed the core/shell structure of the electrospun nanofibers with shell and core feed rates of 0.675 L/min and <0.135 L/min, respectively. The average fiber diameter values were calculated for polyurethane nanofibers (836 ± 172.13 nm), PU/St nanofibers (612 ± 93.21 nm) and PU/St (HA) nanofibers (428 ± 78.32 nm). The average porosity values of scaffolds were determined for PU (1.251 ± 0.235 μm), PU/St (1.734 ± 0.284 μm) and PU/St (HA) (3.186 ± 0.401 μm). The core-shell PU/St and PU/St (HA) nanofibers were evaluated in vitro by using mouse fibroblasts (L929) cells. Cell morphology and viability results were exhibited significant enhancement in cell promoting and cell attachment. Furthermore, in vivo studies was indicated Core-shell PU/St (HA) wound dressing can be an appropriate candidate for skin tissue engineering and wound healing.
Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is an innate immunity receptor predominantly expressed on myeloid cells and involved in the development of various diseases, many of them with complex genetics. Here we present data on functionality of single nucleotide polymorphism rs7873784 located in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of TLR4 gene and associated with various pathologies involving chronic inflammation. We demonstrate that TLR4 3'-UTR strongly enhanced the activity of TLR4 promoter in U937 human monocytic cell line while minor rs7873784(C) allele created a binding site for transcription factor PU.1 (encoded by SPI1 gene), a known regulator of TLR4 expression. Increased binding of PU.1 further augmented the TLR4 transcription while PU.1 knockdown or complete disruption of the PU.1 binding site abrogated the effect. We hypothesize that additional functional PU.1 site may increase TLR4 expression in individuals carrying minor C variant of rs7873784 and modulate the development of certain pathologies, such as rheumatoid arthritis and type-2 diabetes mellitus.
Th9 cells preferentially produce IL-9 and participate in allergic responses and asthma. Differentiation of Th9 cells is induced by IL-4 and TGF-β, and then the cells are amplified by OX40 signals. The transcription factors PU.1, IRF4, and BATF are required for Th9 differentiation. BATF3 is an AP-1 family transcription factor that is highly homologous to BATF; however, its role in Th9 cells is poorly defined. Here, we show that OX40 signaling induced the expression of Batf3 and that its overexpression in the presence or absence of OX40 signaling increased the expression of IL-9 in Th9 cells. BATF3 physically interacted with IRF4 and was bound to the Il9 locus. A transient reporter assay revealed that the BATF3-IRF4 complex induced Il9 promoter activity. BATF3 rescued Il9 expression and restored the capacity to induce the airway inflammation in Batf KO Th9 cells. Thus, BATF3 itself is sufficient for the induction of Th9 cell differentiation and can substitute for BATF during Th9 cell differentiation.
Components of the pre-messenger RNA splicing machinery are frequently mutated in myeloid malignancies. Mutations in LUC7L2, PRPF8, SF3B1, SRSF2, U2AF1, and ZRSR2 genes occur at various frequencies ranging between 40% and 85% in different subtypes of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and 5% and 10% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). In some instances, splicing factor (SF) mutations have provided diagnostic utility and information on clinical outcomes as exemplified by SF3B1 mutations associated with increased ring sideroblasts (RS) in MDS-RS or MDS/MPN-RS with thrombocytosis. SF3B1 mutations are associated with better survival outcomes, while SRSF2 mutations are associated with a shorter survival time and increased AML progression, and U2AF1 mutations with a lower remission rate and shorter survival time. Beside the presence of mutations, transcriptomics technologies have shown that one third of genes in AML patients are differentially expressed, leading to altered transcript stability, interruption of protein function, and improper translation compared to those of healthy individuals. The detection of SF mutations demonstrates the importance of splicing abnormalities in the hematopoiesis of MDS and AML patients given the fact that abnormal splicing regulates the function of several transcriptional factors (PU.1, RUNX1, etc.) crucial in hematopoietic function. This review provides a summary of the significance of the most frequently mutated SF genes in myeloid malignancies and an update on novel targeted therapies in experimental and clinical trial stages.
Comment in    Br J Haematol. 2020 May;189(3):578-581.    Br J Haematol. 2020 May;189(3):577-578.
N16 is an active protein existing in Pinctada martensi. Our previous studies have demonstrated that N16 inhibited osteoclast differentiation in vitro. To better understand how N16 regulates osteoclast differentiation, RAW264.7 cells, a murine monocytic cell line and murine bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) were adopted. Treatment of RAW264.7 cells with RANKL activated osteoclastogenesis and N16 inhibited the formation of multinucleated osteoclasts and TRAP activity. The suppression occurred at the early stage of osteoclastogenesis. Moreover, we found that N16 inhibited PU.1 and MITF expressions, mirroring the inhibition of RANK expressions, indicating that N16 inhibited RANK expression by down-regulating the expressions of MITF and PU.1, thus preventing osteoclastogenesis.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a major human oncogenic pathogen, establishes life-long persistent infections. In latently infected B lymphocytes, the virus persists as an episome in the nucleus. Periodic reactivation of latent virus is controlled by both viral and cellular factors. Our recent studies showed that interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) is required for EBV lytic reactivation while protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) functions as an EBV restriction factor to block viral reactivation. Here, we show that IRF8 directly binds to the EBV genome and regulates EBV lytic gene expression together with PU.1 and EBV transactivator RTA. Furthermore, our study reveals that PIAS1 antagonizes IRF8/PU.1-mediated lytic gene activation through binding to and inhibiting IRF8. Together, our study establishes IRF8 as a transcriptional activator in promoting EBV reactivation and defines PIAS1 as an inhibitor of IRF8 to limit lytic gene expression.
Monoclonal antibodies targeting CD20 are central in the treatment of B-cell lymphomas. In diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), inactivating mutations of the histone acetyltransferases CREB-binding protein (CBP) and EP300 are common. Moreover, knockdown of CBP in DLBCL has been shown to result in aberrant transcriptional silencing. Expression of CD20 is sensitive to epigenetic manipulation, and histone deacetylase inhibitors have been found to potentiate treatment with anti-CD20 antibodies. Therefore, we studied the role of CBP and EP300 depletion on CD20 expression and effects of the anti-CD20 antibodies rituximab and obinutuzumab in DLBCL cells. Levels of CBP and EP300 were reduced by shRNA in the germinal centre-derived diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cell line SU-DHL4. The levels of CD20 mRNA and protein were determined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and flow cytometry. Binding of the transcription factors PU.1 and FOXO1 to the CD20 promoter was determined by chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Response to the monoclonal anti-CD20 antibodies rituximab and obinutuzumab in CBP- or EP300-depleted cells was assessed by complement-dependent cell death, direct cell death, and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Our results suggest that depletion of CBP and EP300 levels leads to a strong reduction of CD20 expression, accompanied by reduced binding of PU.1 to the CD20 promoter. In CBP-depleted, but not EP300-depleted cells, increased binding of FOXO1 to the CD20 promoter was observed. Interestingly, CBP or EP300 depletion leads to decreased complement-dependent cell death and direct cell death in response to rituximab and obinutuzumab, which was most pronounced in response to rituximab in CBP-depleted cells. Our data suggest that inactivating mutations of CBP, and to a lesser extent EP300, may impair the response to anti-CD20 antibodies. However, these observations should be analyzed in future clinical trials.
Therapy-related and more specifically radiotherapy-associated acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is a well-recognized potential complication of cytotoxic therapy for the treatment of a primary cancer. The CBA mouse model is used to study radiation leukaemogenesis mechanisms with Sfpi1/PU.1 deletion and point mutation already identified as driving events during AML development. To identify new pathways, we analysed 123 mouse radiation-induced AML (rAML) samples for the presence of mutations identified previously in human AML and found three genes to be mutated; Sfpi1 R235 (68%), Flt3-ITD (4%) and Kras G12 (3%), of which G12R was previously unreported. Importantly, a significant decrease in Sfpi1 gene expression is found almost exclusively in rAML samples without an Sfpi1 R235 mutation and is specifically associated with up-regulation of mir-1983 and mir-582-5p. Moreover, this down-regulation of Sfpi1 mRNA is negatively correlated with DNA methylation levels at specific CpG sites upstream of the Sfpi1 transcriptional start site. The down regulation of Sfpi1/PU.1 has also been reported in human AML cases revealing one common pathway of myeloid disruption between mouse and human AML where dysregulation of Sfpi1/PU.1 is a necessary step in AML development.
Early B cell development is regulated by stage-specific transcription factors. PU.1, an ETS-family transcription factor, is essential for coordination of early B cell maturation and immunoglobulin gene (Ig) rearrangement. Here we show that RAG DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) generated during Ig light chain gene (Igl) rearrangement in pre-B cells induce global changes in PU.1 chromatin binding. RAG DSBs activate a SPIC/BCLAF1 transcription factor complex that displaces PU.1 throughout the genome and regulates broad transcriptional changes. SPIC recruits BCLAF1 to gene-regulatory elements that control expression of key B cell developmental genes. The SPIC/BCLAF1 complex suppresses expression of the SYK tyrosine kinase and enforces the transition from large to small pre-B cells. These studies reveal that RAG DSBs direct genome-wide changes in ETS transcription factor activity to promote early B cell development.
BACKGROUND: HPV test implementation as a primary screening tool has the potential to decrease cervical cancer incidence as shown by several studies around the world. However, in many low-resource settings, the HPV test introduction has been backed down mainly due to its price. In this study, we present a novel low-cost strategy involving simple devices and techniques for high-risk human papillomavirus (HR-HPV) detection. The analytical performance to detect HR-HPV infections of this novel strategy was assessed by comparing it with the Hybrid Capture 2 system (HC2), which is used as gold standard.METHODS: Paired-cervical samples were collected from 541 women assisting to gynecological services in an outpatient clinic. One sample was transported in the Hybrid Capture Standard Transport Medium for HR-HPV detection by the HC2. The second sample was transported on glass slide for detection by PCR-based techniques (GP-EIA, BSGP-EIA and pU 1 M-L/2R).RESULTS: The level of agreement between the PCR-based techniques and HC2 system was determined with the Cohen's kappa value. The kappa values between HC2 and GP-EIA, BSGP-EIA and pU 1 M-L/2R were 0.71 (CI 95% 0.63-0.78), 0.78 (CI 95% 0.71-0.84) and 0.63 (CI 95% 0.55-0.72), respectively. However, when the results from both BSGP-EIA and pU 1 M-L/2R were combined, the level of agreement with HC2 was increased to 0.82 (CI 95% 0.76-0.88), reflecting a very good agreement between the two HR-HPV detection strategies. Furthermore, the sensitivity of both techniques combined was also increased compared to the BSGP-EIA (88.7% vs 77.4%) and the pU (88.7 vs 60.9%) without penalizing the specificity obtained with the BSGP-EIA (95.1% vs 96.9%) and the pU (95.1% vs 96.5%).CONCLUSIONS: This novel strategy, combining two PCR-based techniques for HR-HPV detection, could be useful for cervical cancer screening in self-collected samples in low-income countries.
Insulin resistance is a key feature of obesity and type 2 diabetes. PU.1 is a master transcription factor predominantly expressed in macrophages but after HFD feeding PU.1 expression is also significantly increased in adipocytes. We generated adipocyte specific PU.1 knockout mice using adiponectin cre to investigate the role of PU.1 in adipocyte biology, insulin and glucose homeostasis. In HFD-fed obese mice systemic glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity were improved in PU.1 AKO mice and clamp studies indicated improvements in both adipose and liver insulin sensitivity. At the level of adipose tissue, macrophage infiltration and inflammation was decreased and glucose uptake was increased in PU.1 AKO mice compared with controls. While PU.1 deletion in adipocytes did not affect the gene expression of PPARg itself, we observed increased expression of PPARg target genes in eWAT from HFD fed PU.1 AKO mice compared with controls. Furthermore, we observed decreased phosphorylation at serine 273 in PU.1 AKO mice compared with fl/fl controls, indicating that PPARg is more active when PU.1 expression is reduced in adipocytes. Therefore, in obesity the increased expression of PU.1 in adipocytes modifies the adipocyte PPARg cistrome resulting in impaired glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity.
Mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) are found in 6% of AML patients. Mutant IDH produces R-2-hydroxyglutarate (R-2HG), which induces histone- and DNA-hypermethylation through the inhibition of epigenetic regulators, thus linking metabolism to tumorigenesis. Here we report the biochemical characterization, in vivo antileukemic effects, structural binding, and molecular mechanism of the inhibitor HMS-101, which inhibits the enzymatic activity of mutant IDH1 (IDH1mut). Treatment of IDH1mut primary AML cells reduced 2-hydroxyglutarate levels (2HG) and induced myeloid differentiation in vitro. Co-crystallization of HMS-101 and mutant IDH1 revealed that HMS-101 binds to the active site of IDH1mut in close proximity to the regulatory segment of the enzyme in contrast to other IDH1 inhibitors. HMS-101 also suppressed 2HG production, induced cellular differentiation and prolonged survival in a syngeneic mutant IDH1 mouse model and a patient-derived human AML xenograft model in vivo. Cells treated with HMS-101 showed a marked upregulation of the differentiation-associated transcription factors CEBPA and PU.1, and a decrease in cell cycle regulator cyclin A2. In addition, the compound attenuated histone hypermethylation. Together, HMS-101 is a unique inhibitor that binds to the active site of IDH1mut directly and is active in IDH1mut preclinical models.
The DNA-binding protein PU.1 is a myeloid lineage-determining and pioneering transcription factor due to its ability to bind "closed" genomic sites and maintain "open" chromatin state for myeloid lineage-specific genes. The precise mechanism of PU.1 in cell type-specific programming is yet to be elucidated. The melanoma cell line B16BL6, although it is nonmyeloid lineage, expressed Toll-like receptors and activated the transcription factor NF-κB upon stimulation by the bacterial cell wall component lipopolysaccharide. However, it did not produce cytokines, such as IL-1β mRNA. Ectopic PU.1 expression induced remodeling of a novel distal enhancer (located ∼10 kbp upstream of the IL-1β transcription start site), marked by nucleosome depletion, enhancer-promoter looping, and histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation (H3K27ac). PU.1 induced enhancer-promoter looping and H3K27ac through two distinct PU.1 regions. These PU.1-dependent events were independently required for subsequent signal-dependent and co-dependent events: NF-κB recruitment and further H3K27ac, both of which were required for enhancer RNA (eRNA) transcription. In murine macrophage RAW264.7 cells, these PU.1-dependent events were constitutively established and readily expressed eRNA and subsequently IL-1β mRNA by lipopolysaccharide stimulation. In summary, this study showed a sequence of epigenetic events in programming IL-1β transcription by the distal enhancer priming and eRNA production mediated by PU.1 and the signal-dependent transcription factor NF-κB.
The vitamin D3 metabolite 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) activates at sub-nanomolar concentrations the transcription factor vitamin D receptor (VDR). VDR is primarily involved in the control of cellular metabolism but in addition modulates processes important for immunity, such as anti-microbial defense and the induction of T cell tolerance. Monocytes and their differentiated phenotypes, macrophages and dendritic cells, are key cell types of the innate immune system, in which vitamin D signaling was most comprehensively investigated via the use of next generation sequencing technologies. These investigations provided genome-wide maps illustrating significant effects of 1,25(OH)2D3 on the binding of VDR, the pioneer transcription factors purine-rich box 1 (PU.1) and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α (CEBPA) and the chromatin modifier CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) as well as on chromatin accessibility and histone markers of promoter and enhancer regions, H3K4me3 and H3K27ac. Thus, the epigenome of human monocytes is at multiple levels sensitive to vitamin D. These data served as the basis for the chromatin model of vitamin D signaling, which mechanistically explains the activation of a few hundred primary vitamin D target genes. Comparable epigenome- and transcriptome-wide effects of vitamin D were also described in peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from individuals before and after supplementation with a vitamin D3 bolus. This review will conclude with the hypothesis that vitamin D modulates the epigenome of immune cells during perturbations by antigens and other immunological challenges suggesting that an optimal vitamin D status may be essential for an effective epigenetic learning process, in particular of the innate immune system.
Erratum in    Hum Immunol. 2020 Feb - Mar;81(2-3):125.
Radiation-induced acute myeloid leukemia (rAML) in C3H mice is commonly developed through inactivation of PU.1 transcription factor encoded in Sfpi1 on chromosome 2. PU.1 inactivation involves two steps: hemizygous deletion of the Sfpi1 gene (DSG) and point mutation of the allele Sfpi1 gene (PMASG). In this study, we investigated the dose-rate dependence of the frequency of both DSG and PMASG in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) of C3H mice that received a total of 3 Gy gamma-ray exposure at dose rates of 20 mGy/day, 200 mGy/day or 1,000 mGy/min. All mice were followed for 250 days from start of irradiation. Fluorescent in situ hybridization of the Sfpi1 gene site indicated that frequency of HSCs with DSG was proportional to dose rate. In cell surface profiles, PU.1-inactivated HSCs by both DSG and PMASG were still positive for PU.1, but negative for GM-CSF receptor-α (GMCSFRα), which is transcriptionally regulated by PU.1. Immunofluorescent staining analysis of both PU.1 and GM-CSFRα also showed dose-rate-dependent levels of PU.1-inactivated HSCs. This study provides evidence that both DSG and PMASG are dose-rate dependent; these experimental data offer new insights into the dose-rate effects in HSCs that can lead to radiation-induced leukemogenesis.
The aim of the study is to explore the protective effect of new gelatin (NG, Xin'ejiao in China) on hematopoietic injury caused by chemotherapy. Zebrafish, at 48 hours post fertilization (hpf), was treated with different chemotherapeutic drugs to establish the zebrafish hematopoietic damage model with reduced thrombocytes and erythrocytes. The protecting effects of NG on the thrombocytes and erythrocytes were observed, respectively, on zebrafish models. Then, the RT-PCR method was used to detect the change of mRNA level of the hematopoiesis-related cytokines scl1, c-myb, pu.1, GATA1, and runx1 genes. The results showed that 50 μg·mL-1 and 100 μg·mL-1 NG rescued and increased the thrombocytes numbers induced by vinorelbine (NVB) and chloramphenicol (CHL) and the erythrocytes numbers induced by methotrexate (MTX), doxorubicin (ADM), and mechlorethamine hydrochloride (MH) in zebrafish models. Meanwhile, the mRNA expression of scl1, c-myb, and GATA1 genes in the NG treatment group was raised compared with the MTX treatment group. Also, the mRNA expression of pu.1 and Runx1 in the NG treatment group was reduced compared with the MTX treatment group. In consequence, traditional Chinese medicine NG showed a certain degree protective effect on hematopoiesis injury induced by chemotherapy in this study, which may depend on the promotion of erythrocytes proliferation and the regulation of the hematopoietic genes level.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are highly heterogeneous myeloid diseases, characterized by frequent genetic/chromosomal aberrations. Olaparib is a potent, orally bioavailable poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) inhibitor with acceptable toxicity profile, designed as targeted therapy for DNA repair defective tumors. Here, we investigated olaparib activity in primary cultures of bone marrow mononuclear cells collected from patients with MDS (n = 28). A single treatment with olaparib induced cytotoxic effects in most samples, with median IC50 of 5.4 µM (2.0-24.8 µM), lower than plasma peak concentration reached in vivo. In addition, olaparib induced DNA damage as shown by a high proportion of γH2AX positive cells in samples with low IC50s. Olaparib preferentially killed myeloid cells causing a significant reduction of blasts and promyelocytes, paralleled by an increase in metamyelocytes and mature granulocytes while sparing lymphocytes that are not part of the MDS clone. Consistently, flow cytometry analysis revealed a decrease of CD117+/CD123+ immature progenitors (p < 0.001) and induction of CD11b+/CD16+ (p < 0.001) and CD10+/CD15+ (p < 0.01) neutrophils. Morphological and immunophenotypic changes were associated with a dose-dependent increase of PU.1 and CEBPA transcription factors, which are drivers of granulocytic and monocytic differentiation. Moreover, the combination of olaparib with decitabine resulted in augmented cytotoxic and differentiating effects. Our data suggest that olaparib may have therapeutic potential in MDS patients.
Understanding the mechanisms fine-tuning immunogenic versus tolerogenic balance in dendritic cells (DCs) is of high importance for therapeutic approaches. We found that NCoR1-mediated direct repression of the tolerogenic program in conventional DCs is essential for induction of an optimal immunogenic response. NCoR1 depletion upregulated a wide variety of tolerogenic genes in activated DCs, which consequently resulted in increased frequency of FoxP3+ regulatory T cells. Mechanistically, NCoR1 masks the PU.1-bound super-enhancers on major tolerogenic genes after DC activation that are subsequently bound by nuclear factor-κB. NCoR1 knockdown (KD) reduced RelA nuclear translocation and activity, whereas RelB was unaffected, providing activated DCs a tolerogenic advantage. Moreover, NCoR1DC-/- mice depicted enhanced Tregs in draining lymph nodes with increased disease burden upon bacterial and parasitic infections. Besides, adoptive transfer of activated NCoR1 KD DCs in infected animals showed a similar phenotype. Collectively, our results demonstrated NCoR1 as a promising target to control DC-mediated immune tolerance.
Differentiation of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells is tightly regulated depending on environmental changes in order to maintain homeostasis. Transcription factors direct the development of hematopoietic cells, such as GATA-1 for erythropoiesis and PU.1 for myelopoiesis. However, recent findings obtained from single-cell analyses raise the question of whether these transcription factors are "initiators" or just "executors" of differentiation, leaving the initiation of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell differentiation (i.e. lineage commitment) unclear. While a stochastic process is likely involved in commitment, it cannot fully explain the homeostasis of hematopoiesis nor "on-demand" hematopoiesis in response to environmental changes. Transcription factors BACH1 and BACH2 may regulate both commitment and on-demand hematopoiesis because they control erythroid-myeloid and lymphoid-myeloid differentiation by repressing the myeloid program, and their activities are repressed in response to infectious and inflammatory conditions. We summarize possible mechanisms of lineage commitment of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells suggested by recent findings and discuss the erythroid and lymphoid commitment of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, focusing on the gene regulatory network composed of genes encoding key transcription factors. Surprising similarity exists between commitment to erythroid and lymphoid lineages, including repression of the myeloid program by BACH factors. The suggested gene regulatory network of BACH factors sheds light on the myeloid-based model of hematopoiesis. This model will help to understand the tuning of hematopoiesis in higher eukaryotes in the steady-state condition as well as in emergency conditions, the evolutional history of the system, aging and hematopoietic disorders.
GATA factors GATA1 and GATA2 and ETS factor PU.1 are known to function antagonistically during hematopoietic development. In mouse mast cells, however, these factors are coexpressed and activate the expression of the Ms4a2 gene encoding the β chain of the high-affinity IgE receptor (FcεRI). The present study showed that these factors cooperatively regulate Ms4a2 gene expression through distinct mechanisms. Although GATA2 and PU.1 contributed almost equally to Ms4a2 gene expression, gene ablation experiments revealed that simultaneous knockdown of both factors showed neither a synergistic nor an additive effect. A chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis showed that they shared DNA binding to the +10.4-kbp region downstream of the Ms4a2 gene with chromatin looping factor LDB1, whereas the proximal -60-bp region was exclusively bound by GATA2 in a mast cell-specific manner. Ablation of PU.1 significantly reduced the level of GATA2 binding to both the +10.4-kbp and -60-bp regions. Surprisingly, the deletion of the +10.4-kbp region by genome editing completely abolished the Ms4a2 gene expression as well as the cell surface expression of FcεRI. These results suggest that PU.1 and LDB1 play central roles in the formation of active chromatin structure whereas GATA2 directly activates the Ms4a2 promoter.
Of the members of the primate T cell lymphotropic virus (PTLV) family, only the human T-cell leukemia virus type-1 (HTLV-1) causes disease in humans-as the etiological agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL), HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), and other auto-inflammatory disorders. Despite having significant genomic organizational and structural similarities, the closely related human T-cell lymphotropic virus type-2 (HTLV-2) is considered apathogenic and has been linked with benign lymphoproliferation and mild neurological symptoms in certain infected patients. The silencing of proviral gene expression and maintenance of latency are central for the establishment of persistent infections in vivo. The conserved pX sequences of HTLV-1 and HTLV-2 encode several ancillary factors which have been shown to negatively regulate proviral gene expression, while simultaneously activating host cellular proliferative and pro-survival pathways. In particular, the ORF-II proteins, HTLV-1 p30II and HTLV-2 p28II, suppress Tax-dependent transactivation from the viral promoter-whereas p30II also inhibits PU.1-mediated inflammatory-signaling, differentially augments the expression of p53-regulated metabolic/pro-survival genes, and induces lymphoproliferation which could promote mitotic proviral replication. The ubiquitinated form of the HTLV-1 p13II protein localizes to nuclear speckles and interferes with recruitment of the p300 coactivator by the viral transactivator Tax. Further, the antisense-encoded HTLV-1 HBZ and HTLV-2 APH-2 proteins and mRNAs negatively regulate Tax-dependent proviral gene expression and activate inflammatory signaling associated with enhanced T-cell lymphoproliferation. This review will summarize our current understanding of the pX latency-maintenance factors of HTLV-1 and HTLV-2 and discuss how these products may contribute to the differences in pathogenicity between the human PTLVs.
MiR-155 regulates the development of germinal-center and the generation of immunoglobulin class-switched plasma cells. However, whether miR-155 is involved in immune response in fish is still unclear. Here, CIK cells transfected with miR-155 overexpressed plasmid inhibited mRNA expression of mIg and Rag2 (P < 0.05). Interestingly, mIg was predicted as a potential target gene of miR-155 by RNAhybrid, with a putative binding site in its CDS. Further, mIg luciferase reporter vectors with successive deletions of mIg cDNA sequence were constructed and dual luciferase reporter assay showed that vectors containing the sequence from 318 to 347 in CDS exhibited lower relative luciferase activity than others without predicted binding region (P < 0.05), which indicated mIg is the target gene of miR-155 and reveal bona fide targeted binding site of mIg for miR-155 in fish. In vivo, the zebrafish were respectively injected with miR-155 overexpressed and empty vector, and showed that miR-155 efficiently expressed in zebrafish (P < 0.01), which consistently decreased mRNA level of immune-related genes, including mIg (P < 0.01), sIg (P < 0.05), AID (P < 0.01), PU.1 (P < 0.05) and Rag2 (P < 0.05) at d 3 and d 6 post injection, comparing to control. Collectively, this work indicates that overexpression of miR-155 suppresses the mRNA level of immune-related genes in CIK cells and zebrafish, and mIg is a novel target gene of miR-155 in fish. These findings provide an insight into the miR-155 modulating adaptive immunity in grass carp and zebrafish.
T-cell development in mammals is a model for lineage choice and differentiation from multipotent stem cells. Although T-cell fate choice is promoted by signaling in the thymus through one dominant pathway, the Notch pathway, it entails a complex set of gene regulatory network and chromatin state changes even before the cells begin to express their signature feature, the clonal-specific T-cell receptors (TCRs) for antigen. This review distinguishes three developmental modules for T-cell development, which correspond to cell type specification, TCR expression and selection, and the assignment of cells to different effector types. The first is based on transcriptional regulatory network events, the second is dominated by somatic gene rearrangement and mutation and cell selection, and the third corresponds to establishing a poised state of latent regulator priming through an unknown mechanism. Interestingly, in different lineages, the third module can be deployed at variable times relative to the completion of the first two modules. This review focuses on the gene regulatory network and chromatin-based kinetic constraints that determine activities of transcription factors TCF1, GATA3, PU.1, Bcl11b, Runx1, and E proteins in the primary establishment of T-cell identity.
FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3)-mutant acute myeloid leukemia (AML) which occurs in approximately 30% of all AML patients still has a poor prognosis. This study aimed to examine the effect of decitabine (DAC) on FLT3-ITD positive AML. In our study, we found that expression of FLT3 and its downstream targets was decreased in FLT3-ITD mutant cell lines treated with DAC. DAC treatment could increase the percentage of apoptotic cells and CD11b positive cells tested by flow cytometry and upregulate the expression of cleaved caspase3, cleaved PARP, C/EBPa and PU.1 detected by western blot. To explore the effect of increased expression of PU.1 on FLT3 protein, we transiently transfected MOLM13 and MV4-11 cells with siRNA against PU.1 and a siRNA control. In both FLT3-ITD positive cells, the effect of DAC on downregulation of FLT3 was diminished in PU.1-konckdown MOLM13 and MV4-11 cells and there was a decrease of CD11b expression after PU.1 knockdown. Furthermore, the percentage of apoptotic cells was also decreased in PU.1-konckdown cells compared with siRNA control-expressing cells with the same dose of DAC. These findings indicated that DAC upregulated PU.1 to induce downregulation of FLT3 to trigger apoptosis. DAC was also found efficacious in mouse xenograft models of FLT3-ITD AML in our study. These findings may provide a novel theoretical basis for treatment of FLT3-ITD positive AML patients.
Arsenic (As) is an omnipresent metalloid toxicant, which has elicited serious environmental pollution and health risky problems. Previous studies have uncovered that the As exposure could also cause markedly reduction of serum triglycerides in mice. However, the regulation mechanisms are still largely unknown. The present study is aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of lncRNAs in As-induced lipid metabolic disequilibrium. We demonstrated that lncRNA PU.1 AS was significantly induced in the liver of As-feed mice companied with lower serum triglycerides contents; further in vitro experiment confirmed that PU.1 AS regulated liver cells lipid accumulation by nile red fluorescence staining. Intensive mechanistic investigations illustrated that PU.1 AS could interact with EZH2 protein to regulate its downstream target gene expression, and As-induced PU.1 AS attenuated EZH2-supppressed Sirt6 expression, thereafter leading to a decreased SREBP-1c protein expression, as well as the diminished synthesis of triglycerides in hepatocytes. In conclusion, this study provided a new lncRNA-related regulatory signaling pathway participating in As-induced abnormal lipid metabolism.
Hairpin polyamides are synthetic small molecules that bind DNA minor groove sequence-selectively and, in many sequences, induce widening of the minor groove and compression of the major groove. The structural distortion of DNA caused by polyamides has enhanced our understanding of the regulation of DNA-binding proteins via polyamides. Polyamides have DNA binding affinities that are comparable to those proteins, therefore, can potentially be used as therapeutic agents to treat diseases caused by aberrant gene expression. In fact, many diseases are characterized by over- or under-expressed genes. PU.1 is a transcription factor that regulates many immune system genes. Aberrant expression of PU.1 has been associated with the development of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We have, therefore, designed and synthesized ten hairpin polyamides to investigate their capacity in controlling the PU.1-DNA interaction. Our results showed that nine of the polyamides disrupt PU.1-DNA binding and the inhibition capacity strongly correlates with binding affinity. One molecule, FH1024, was observed forming a FH1024-PU.1-DNA ternary complex instead of inhibiting PU.1-DNA binding. This is the first report of a small molecule that is potentially a weak agonist that recruits PU.1 to DNA. This finding sheds light on the design of polyamides that exhibit novel regulatory mechanisms on protein-DNA binding.
Pu.1 is an ETS family transcription factor (TF) that plays critical roles in erythroid progenitors by promoting proliferation and blocking terminal differentiation. However, the mechanisms controlling expression and down-regulation of Pu.1 during early erythropoiesis have not been defined. In this study, we identify the actions of Runx1 and Pu.1 itself at the Pu.1 gene Upstream Regulatory Element (URE) as major regulators of Pu.1 expression in Burst-Forming Unit erythrocytes (BFUe). During early erythropoiesis, Runx1 and Pu.1 levels decline, and chromatin accessibility at the URE is lost. Ectopic expression of Runx1 or Pu.1, both of which bind the URE, prevents Pu.1 down-regulation and blocks terminal erythroid differentiation, resulting in extensive ex vivo proliferation and immortalization of erythroid progenitors. Ectopic expression of Runx1 in BFUe lacking a URE fails to block terminal erythroid differentiation. Thus, Runx1, acting at the URE, and Pu.1 itself directly regulate Pu.1 levels in erythroid cells, and loss of both factors is critical for Pu.1 down-regulation during terminal differentiation. The molecular mechanism of URE inactivation in erythroid cells through loss of TF binding represents a distinct pattern of Pu.1 regulation from those described in other hematopoietic cell types such as T cells which down-regulate Pu.1 through active repression. The importance of down-regulation of Runx1 and Pu.1 in erythropoiesis is further supported by genome-wide analyses showing that their DNA-binding motifs are highly overrepresented in regions that lose chromatin accessibility during early erythroid development.
The signaling mediated by small non-proteinogenic molecules, which probably have the capacity to serve as a bridge amongst complex systems is one of the most exiting challenges for the study. In the current report, stem cells differentiation of the immune system in Nile tilapia treated with sub-basal doses of GABA evaluated as c-kit+ and Sca-1+ cells disappearance on pronephros, thymus, spleen and peripheral blood mononuclear cells by flow cytometry was assessed. Explanation of biological response was performed by molecular docking approach and multiparametric analysis. Stem cell differentiation depends on a delicate balance of negative and positive interactions of this neurotransmitter with receptors and transcription factors involved in this process. This in turn depends on the type of interaction with hematopoietic niche to differentiate into primordial, early or late hematopoiesis as well as from the dose delivery. In fish treated with the low doses of GABA (0.1% over basal value) primordial hematopoiesis is regulated by interaction of glutamate (Glu) with the Ly-6 antigen. Early hematopoiesis was influenced by the bond of GABA near or adjacent to turns of FLTR3-Ig-IV domain. During late hematopoiesis, negative regulation by structural modifications on PU.1/IRF-4 complex, IL-7Rα and GM-CSFR mainly prevails. Results of molecular docking were in agreement with the percentages of the main blood cells lineages estimated in pronephros by flow cytometry. Current study provides the first evidences about the role of inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitters such as GABA and Glu, respectively with the most transcriptional factors and receptors involved on hematopoiesis in adult Nile tilapia.
The helper T cell 9 (Thelper-9, Th9), as a functional subgroup of CD4+T cells, was first discovered in 2008. Th9 cells expressed transcription factor PU.1 and cytokine interleukin-9 (IL-9) characteristically. Recent researches have shown that the differentiation of Th9 cells was coregulated by cytokine transforming growth factor β, IL-4, and various transcription factors. Th9 cells, as a new player, played an important role in various immune-related diseases, including tumors, inflammatory diseases, parasite infection, and other diseases. In this article, we summarize the related research progress and discuss the possible prospect.
Mangiferin is the major bioactive ingredient in the leaves of Mangifera indica L., Aqueous extract of such leaves have been traditionally used as an indigenous remedy for respiratory diseases including cough and asthma in Traditional Chinese Medicine. Mangiferin was shown to exert its anti-asthmatic effect by modulating Th1/Th2 cytokines imbalance via STAT6 signaling pathway. However, compelling evidence indicated that subtypes of T helpers and regulatory T cells other than Th1/Th2 were also involved in the pathogenesis of asthma. In current study, we investigated the effects of mangiferin on the differentiation and function of Th9, Th17 and Treg cells in a chicken egg ovalbumin (OVA)-induced asthmatic mouse model. Mangiferin significantly attenuated the symptoms of asthma attacks, reduced the total number of leukocytes, EOS and goblet cells infiltration in lung. Simultaneously, treatment with mangiferin remarkably decreased the proportion of Th9 and Th17 cells; reduced the levels of IL-9, IL-17A; inhibited the expression of PU.1 and RORγt in lung. However, the proportion of Treg cells, the expression of IL-10, TGF-β1 and Foxp3 were increased by mangiferin. Our data suggest that mangiferin exerted anti-asthmatic effect through decreasing Th9 and Th17 responses and increasing Treg response in OVA-induced asthmatic mouse model.
Comment in    Cell Stem Cell. 2019 Aug 1;25(2):167-168.
BACKGROUND: Cell type-specific use of cis-acting regulatory elements is mediated by the combinatorial activity of transcription factors involved in lineage determination and maintenance of cell identity. In macrophages, specific transcriptional programs are dictated by the transcription factor PU.1 that primes distal regulatory elements for macrophage identities and makes chromatin competent for activity of stimuli-dependent transcription factors. Although the advances in genome-wide approaches have elucidated the functions of these macrophage-specific distal regulatory elements in transcriptional responses, chromatin structures associated with PU.1 priming and the underlying mechanisms of action of these cis-acting sequences are not characterized.RESULTS: Here, we show that, in macrophages, FACT subunit SPT16 can bind to positioned nucleosomes directly flanking PU.1-bound sites at previously uncharacterized distal regulatory elements located near genes essential for macrophage development and functions. SPT16 can interact with the transcriptional co-regulator TRIM33 and binds to half of these sites in a TRIM33-dependent manner. Using the Atp1b3 locus as a model, we show that FACT binds to two positioned nucleosomes surrounding a TRIM33/PU.1-bound site in a region, located 35 kb upstream the Atp1b3 TSS, that interact with the Atp1b3 promoter. At this - 35 kb region, TRIM33 deficiency leads to FACT release, loss of the two positioned nucleosomes, RNA Pol II recruitment and bidirectional transcription. These modifications are associated with higher levels of FACT binding at the Atp1b3 promoter, an increase of RNA Pol II recruitment and an increased expression of Atp1b3 in Trim33-/- macrophages.CONCLUSIONS: Thus, sequestering of SPT16/FACT by TRIM33 at PU.1-bound distal regions might represent a new regulatory mechanism for RNA Pol II recruitment and transcription output in macrophages.
Pluripotent stem cell (PSC) differentiation in vitro represents a powerful and tractable model to study mammalian development and an unlimited source of cells for regenerative medicine. Within hematology, in vitro PSC hematopoiesis affords novel insights into blood formation and represents an exciting potential approach to generate hematopoietic and immune cell types for transplantation and transfusion. Most studies to date have focused on in vitro hematopoiesis from mouse PSCs and human PSCs. However, differences in mouse and human PSC culture protocols have complicated the translation of discoveries between these systems. We recently developed a novel chemical media formulation, expanded potential stem cell medium (EPSCM), that maintains mouse PSCs in a unique cellular state and extraembryonic differentiation capacity. Herein, we describe how EPSCM can be directly used to stably maintain human PSCs. We further demonstrate that human PSCs maintained in EPSCM can spontaneously form embryoid bodies and undergo in vitro hematopoiesis using a simple differentiation protocol, similar to mouse PSC differentiation. EPSCM-maintained human PSCs generated at least two hematopoietic cell populations, which displayed distinct transcriptional profiles by RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. EPSCM also supports gene targeting using homologous recombination, affording generation of an SPI1 (PU.1) reporter PSC line to study and track in vitro hematopoiesis. EPSCM therefore provides a useful tool not only to study pluripotency but also hematopoietic cell specification and developmental-lineage commitment.
C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7) is essential for migration of dendritic cells (DCs) to draining lymph nodes. PU.1/Spi1 is a transcription factor playing a critical role in the gene regulation of DCs. PU.1 knockdown decreased the expression of CCR7 in bone marrow-derived DCs and subsequently attenuated migration in vitro and in vivo. Reporter assays, EMSA, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that PU.1 binds to the most proximal Ets motif of the Ccr7 promoter, which is involved in transcriptional activation. The CCR7 expression level, which was higher in the programmed cell death 1 ligand 2 (PD-L2)+ population than in the PD-L2- population and was markedly suppressed by TGF-β treatment, coincided with the binding level of PU.1 to the Ccr7 promoter. The PU.1 binding level in CCR7high mesenteric lymph nodes DCs was higher than in other DC subtypes. The involvement of PU.1 in the expression of the CCR7 gene was also observed in human DCs. We conclude that PU.1 plays a pivotal role in DC migration by transactivating the CCR7 gene via the Ets motif in the promoter in both humans and mice.-Yashiro, T., Takeuchi, H., Nakamura, S., Tanabe, A., Hara, M., Uchida, K., Okumura, K., Kasakura, K., Nishiyama, C. PU.1 plays a pivotal role in dendritic cell migration from the periphery to secondary lymphoid organs via regulating CCR7 expression.
Fate-changing transcription factors (TFs) scan chromatin to initiate new genetic programs during cell differentiation and reprogramming. Yet the protein structure domains that allow TFs to target nucleosomal DNA remain unexplored. We screened diverse TFs for binding to nucleosomes containing motif-enriched sequences targeted by pioneer factors in vivo. FOXA1, OCT4, ASCL1/E12α, PU1, CEBPα, and ZELDA display a range of nucleosome binding affinities that correlate with their cell reprogramming potential. We further screened 593 full-length human TFs on protein microarrays against different nucleosome sequences, followed by confirmation in solution, to distinguish among factors that bound nucleosomes, such as the neuronal AP-2α/β/γ, versus factors that only bound free DNA. Structural comparisons of DNA binding domains revealed that efficient nucleosome binders use short anchoring α helices to bind DNA, whereas weak nucleosome binders use unstructured regions and/or β sheets. Thus, specific modes of DNA interaction allow nucleosome scanning that confers pioneer activity to transcription factors.
Oncogenic mutations confer on cells the ability to propagate indefinitely, but whether oncogenes alter the cell fate of these cells is unknown. Here, we show that the transcriptional regulator PRDM16s causes oncogenic fate conversion by transforming cells fated to form platelets and erythrocytes into myeloid leukemia stem cells (LSCs). Prdm16s expression in megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitors (MEPs), which normally lack the potential to generate granulomonocytic cells, caused AML by converting MEPs into LSCs. Prdm16s blocked megakaryocytic/erythroid potential by interacting with super enhancers and activating myeloid master regulators, including PU.1. A CRISPR dropout screen confirmed that PU.1 is required for Prdm16s-induced leukemia. Ablating PU.1 attenuated leukemogenesis and reinstated the megakaryocytic/erythroid potential of leukemic MEPs in mouse models and human AML with PRDM16 rearrangement. Thus, oncogenic PRDM16 s expression gives MEPs an LSC fate by activating myeloid gene regulatory networks.
With reduced thymic activity, the population of naïve T cells in humans is maintained by homeostatic proliferation throughout adult life. In young adults, naïve CD4 T cells have enormous proliferative potential and plasticity to differentiate into different lineages. Here, we explored whether naïve CD4 T-cell aging is associated with a partial loss of this unbiased multipotency. We find that naïve CD4 T cells from older individuals have developed a propensity to develop into TH9 cells. Two major mechanisms contribute to this predisposition. First, responsiveness to transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) stimulation is enhanced with age due to an upregulation of the TGFβR3 receptor that results in increased expression of the transcription factor PU.1. Secondly, aged naïve CD4 T cells display altered transcription factor profiles in response to T-cell receptor stimulation, including enhanced expression of BATF and IRF4 and reduced expression of ID3 and BCL6. These transcription factors are involved in TH9 differentiation as well as IL9 transcription suggesting that the aging-associated changes in the transcription factor profile favor TH9 commitment.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGIC RELEVANCE: Dangguibuxue decoction (DGBX), is a well-known traditional Chinese medicine that contains two types of materials used to treat anemia. In this study, we aimed to explore the effect and mechanism of DGBX on abolishing erythroid progenitor cell (Ter119+CD71+) accumulation induced by melanoma.MATERIALS AND METHODS: B16/F10 melanoma cells were used to establish transplanted and metastatic melanoma models. DGBX or normal saline were administered intragastrically daily after the models were established. Tumor sizes and metastatic nodules were observed after tumor cell inoculation. To further test the function of DGBX on erythroid progenitor cell (EPC) accumulation and immunosuppressive abilities, the percentage of EPCs in the blood, and spleen were quantified with flow cytometry. The proportion of CD8+ T cells and related functional mediators, IFN-γ and TNF-α,were also quantified with flow cytometry. To further strengthen our in vivo observations, DGBX serum was prepared from the rats three days after DGBX was administered. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was carried out to control the quality of the experiments. B16/F10 melanomacells were cultured with DGBX serum, and proliferation and apoptosis were observed with the CCK8 assay and AnnexinV/7AAD staining, respectively. EPCs were isolated from B16/F10-bearing mice and cultured under erythroid differentiation conditions. EPCs were treated with DGBX serum, and mature red cell proportions and cell denucleations were tested with flow cytometry and Giemsa staining of the cultured EPCs. Flow cytometry and qPCR were used to analyze the effects of DGBX on the expression of key molecules involved in erythroid development and to explore the mechanism by which DGBX relieves abnormal EPC accumulation.RESULTS: DGBX treatments significantly reduced B16 melanoma tumor sizes and metastatic nodules. Most importantly, our study strongly suggested that DGBX could alleviate anemia, and systematically enhance anti-tumor immune responses by reducing abnormal EPC accumulation. Moreover, DGBX serum treatments had no direct effect on tumor cell proliferation and apoptosis, but could promote EPCs to differentiate into mature red blood cells, in vitro. Mechanistically, at least in part, DGBX relieved abnormal EPC accumulation by altering the "master switch" transcription factors, Pu.1 and Gata-1.CONCLUSIONS: DGBX significantly alleviates abnormal tumor-induced EPC accumulation, inhibits B16 melanoma progression, and enhances anti-tumor immune responses.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) resistance continues to be a critical problem in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL)-relapsed patients. In this study, a clinically achievable concentration of enzastaurin synergized with ATRA to induce differentiation and apoptosis in ATRA-resistant APL cell lines, NB4-R1 and NB4-R2. Mechanistically, although enzastaurin is a protein kinase Cβ (PKCβ) inhibitor, PKCβ may not be required since the activity of PKCβ was not suppressed by enzastaurin-ATRA (enz-ATRA) co-treatment, and another PKCβ-selective inhibitor did not mimic the effects of enzastaurin. An MEK inhibitor but not a RAF-1 inhibitor suppressed enz-ATRA treatment-triggered differentiation, activation of MEK/ERK and up-regulation of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β (C/EBPβ) and/or PU.1. Therefore, RAF-1-independent MEK/ERK signaling was required for enz-ATRA treatment-induced differentiation via modulation of the protein levels of C/EBPβ and/or PU.1. Enz-ATRA treatment collapsed mitochondrial transmembrane potential without the activation of caspase-3, -6 and -7. Moreover, caspase-3/7- and caspase-6-specific inhibitors had no inhibitory effect on enz-ATRA treatment-triggered apoptosis. Therefore, enz-ATRA treatment-induced apoptosis was mitochondria-dependent but caspase-independent. Enz-ATRA treatment degraded PML-RARα, which may be involved in enz-ATRA treatment-induced dual effects and may also be beneficial for APL eradication. These findings may provide a potential therapy for ATRA-resistant APL patients.
Background: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is resulted from the infiltration of high amount of non-differentiated cells in bone marrow. Differentiation of the hematopoietic stem cells into specific cell lineage occurs through a highly regulated pathway which is mainly monitored during transcription step. Expression level and pattern of transcription factors e.g. PU.1 determine fate and developmental phases in this pathway. This study was performed to evaluate the expression level of the PU.1 gene in a group of children suffering from ALL. Materials and Methods: The mRNA expression level of the PU.1 gene was compared between 30 children diagnosed as new cases of ALL and 30 sex- and gender-matched healthy children in the present case-control study. The quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to determine the level of PU.1 gene expression. The data were analyzed using Graph Pad Prism statistical software. Results: The mRNA level of the PU.1 gene was significantly lower in the blood samples of the ALL patients compared to the controls (p= 0.002). Conclusion: The results of the study indicated that the PU.1 gene seemed to have key roles in the differentiation pathway of blood cells.
The E2F transcription factors (TFs), which control the progression of the cell cycle in response to DNA-damage and various stresses, are known to interact with a tumor suppressor, Retinoblastoma 1 (RB1). We previously showed that the response of the human RB1 promoter to a 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) in HL-60 cells is mediated by a duplicated GGAA-motif, which is also present in the 5'-upstream of the E2F family genes. The motifs are especially rich in the 5'-upstream of the E2F4 gene. In the present study, we constructed Luciferase (Luc) expression vectors containing a 466-bp of the 5'-upstream of the human E2F4 gene. The transfection of this plasmid and deletion/mutation-introduced derivatives into HL-60 cells and a Luc reporter assay showed that duplicated and triplicated GGAA (TTCC) motifs in the E2F4 promoter respond to TPA. As expected, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) indicated that SPI1 (PU.1) binds to the GGAA-motif containing element. A quantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting showed that the E2F4 transcripts and its encoding proteins accumulate during the differentiation of HL-60 into macrophage-like cells. In contrast, the expression of the E2F1 gene and the protein, which possibly acts as a cell cycle accelerator, was greatly diminished.
Cebpa encodes a transcription factor (TF) that plays an instructive role in the development of multiple myeloid lineages. The expression of Cebpa itself is finely modulated, as Cebpa is expressed at high and intermediate levels in neutrophils and macrophages respectively and downregulated in non-myeloid lineages. The cis-regulatory logic underlying the lineage-specific modulation of Cebpa's expression level is yet to be fully characterized. Previously, we had identified 6 new cis-regulatory modules (CRMs) in a 78kb region surrounding Cebpa. We had also inferred the TFs that regulate each CRM by fitting a sequence-based thermodynamic model to a comprehensive reporter activity dataset. Here, we report the cis-regulatory logic of Cebpa CRMs at the resolution of individual binding sites. We tested the binding sites and functional roles of inferred TFs by designing and constructing mutated CRMs and comparing theoretical predictions of their activity against empirical measurements in a myeloid cell line. The enhancers were confirmed to be activated by combinations of PU.1, C/EBP family TFs, Egr1, and Gfi1 as predicted by the model. We show that silencers repress the activity of the proximal promoter in a dominant manner in G1ME cells, which are derived from the red-blood cell lineage. Dominant repression in G1ME cells can be traced to binding sites for GATA and Myb, a motif shared by all of the silencers. Finally, we demonstrate that GATA and Myb act redundantly to silence the proximal promoter. These results indicate that dominant repression is a novel mechanism for resolving hematopoietic lineages. Furthermore, Cebpa has a fail-safe cis-regulatory architecture, featuring several functionally similar CRMs, each of which contains redundant binding sites for multiple TFs. Lastly, by experimentally demonstrating the predictive ability of our sequence-based thermodynamic model, this work highlights the utility of this computational approach for understanding mammalian gene regulation.
Interferon regulatory factors (IRFs) are a family of homologous proteins that regulate the transcription of interferons (IFNs) and IFN-induced gene expression. As such they are important modulating proteins in the Toll-like receptor (TLR) and IFN signaling pathways, which are vital elements of the innate immune system. IRFs have a multi-domain structure, with the N-terminal part acting as a DNA binding domain (DBD) that recognizes a DNA-binding motif similar to the IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE). The C-terminal part contains the IRF-association domain (IAD), with which they can self-associate, bind to IRF family members or interact with other transcription factors. This complex formation is crucial for DNA binding and the commencing of target-gene expression. IRFs bind DNA and exert their activating potential as homo or heterodimers with other IRFs. Moreover, they can form complexes (e.g., with Signal transducers and activators of transcription, STATs) and collaborate with other co-acting transcription factors such as Nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and PU.1. In time, more of these IRF co-activating mechanisms have been discovered, which may play a key role in the pathogenesis of many diseases, such as acute and chronic inflammation, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Detailed knowledge of IRFs structure and activating mechanisms predisposes IRFs as potential targets for inhibition in therapeutic strategies connected to numerous immune system-originated diseases. Until now only indirect IRF modulation has been studied in terms of antiviral response regulation and cancer treatment, using mainly antisense oligonucleotides and siRNA knockdown strategies. However, none of these approaches so far entered clinical trials. Moreover, no direct IRF-inhibitory strategies have been reported. In this review, we summarize current knowledge of the different IRF-mediated transcriptional regulatory mechanisms and how they reflect the diverse functions of IRFs in homeostasis and in TLR and IFN signaling. Moreover, we present IRFs as promising inhibitory targets and propose a novel direct IRF-modulating strategy employing a pipeline approach that combines comparative in silico docking to the IRF-DBD with in vitro validation of IRF inhibition. We hypothesize that our methodology will enable the efficient identification of IRF-specific and pan-IRF inhibitors that can be used for the treatment of IRF-dependent disorders and malignancies.
AIMS: TL1A was reported to contribute to the susceptibility to ulcerative colitis (UC). However, the molecular mechanisms of TL1A in UC development are poorly understood. We aimed to investigate the role of TL1A in colitis, and reveal the regulatory mechanism of TL1A in chronic colitis development.MAIN METHODS: Wild-type mice and transgenic mice with overexpressing TL1A in lymphocytes were used to construct chronic DSS colitis models. To investigate the molecular mechanism in vitro, CD4+ T cells were sorted from spleens and mesenteric lymph node cells to induce Th9 cells. Biopsy specimens from ulcerative colitis patients were collected for in vivo validation.KEY FINDINGS: The elevated TL1A expression in chronic DSS colitis models exacerbated intestinal inflammation. The differentiation of Th9 cells, IL-9 secretion and production of TGF-β, IL-4 and PU.1 was significantly enhanced in transgenic mice with TL1A overexpression. In vitro results showed that TL1A enhanced the Th9 cells, IL-9 and PU.1 production, while TL1A antibodies inhibited their production. In human translational studies, patients with ulcerative colitis with elevated TL1A expression also exhibited more serious inflammation with higher levels of Th9 cells, IL-9 and PU.1 expression.SIGNIFICANCE: We presented a possible mechanism of TL1A in UC development that TL1A may promote the differentiation of Th9 cells and enhanced IL-9 secretion by up-regulating the expression of TGF-β, IL-4 and PU.1, which provided a novel perspective to study the UC pathogenesis, and indicated that targeting of TL1A signal pathway may by a likely strategy for the treatment of chronic colitis.
MicroRNAs (miRNA) are small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression by targeting mRNAs in a sequence specific manner, thereby determining their degradation or inhibiting translation. They are involved in processes such as proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis by fine-tuning the expression of genes underlying such events. The expression of specific miRNAs is involved in hematopoietic differentiation and their deregulation contributes to the development of hematopoietic malignancies such as acute myeloid leukemia (AML). miR-130a is over-expressed in AML. Here we show that miR-130a is physiologically expressed in myeloblasts and down-regulated during monocyte differentiation. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments performed on CD34+ human hematopoietic stem cells confirmed that expression of miR-130a inhibits monocyte differentiation by interfering with the expression of key transcription factors HOXA10, IRF8, KLF4, MAFB and PU-1. The data obtained in this study highlight that the correct modulation of miR-130a is necessary for normal differentiation to occur and confirming that deregulation of this miRNA might underlie the differentiation block occurring in AML.
Receptor activator of NF-κB (RANK) expressed on osteoclasts and their precursors is a receptor for RANK ligand (RANKL). Signals transduced by RANKL-RANK interaction induce genes essential for the differentiation and function of osteoclasts. We have cloned a basic promoter region of the mouse RANK gene and have analyzed the transcription machinery by transcription factors such as PU.1 (-480), and MITF (-100). Here, we examined the regulatory mechanisms of RANK gene transcription through AP-1 binding site, agagctca (-240). RANK mRNA expression in pre-osteoclastic RAW264.7 cells was induced by Phorbol12-myristate13-acetate (PMA) and suppressed by protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor calphostin C. In RAW264.7 cells, Fos knockdown by siRNA blocked the inducible effect of PMA on RANK expression. By EMSA, an oligonucleotide (-246/-238) showed DNA protein binding, the specificity of which was confirmed by block-shift assay with an anti-Fos antibody and by the addition of the excess of a cold consensus probe. Co-transfection with a Fos expression vector showed that Fos increased RANK promoter activity 6-fold in RAW264.7 cells, and the addition of PU.1 and MITF superinduced the activity more than twenty-fold by the addition of PU.1 and MITF. Mutagenesis of the putative AP-1 site (-240) blocked the inducible effect of Fos on promoter activity. Taken together, these results indicate that during the differentiation of bone marrow mono-nucleated cells into osteoclast precursors, RANK transcription is positively regulated by Fos/AP-1 through the binding element of its gene promoter, supporting the concept that Fos activation by continuous CSF-1 stimulation on macrophages triggers initial expression of RANK and, later, a positive feedback loop by RANKL-RANK interaction.
Aproper choice of neutrophil-macrophage progenitor cell fate is essential for the generation of adequate myeloid subpopulations during embryonic development and in adulthood. The network governing neutrophil-macrophage progenitor cell fate has several key determinants, such as myeloid master regulators CCAAT enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPα) and spleen focus forming virus proviral integration oncogene (PU.1). Nevertheless, more regulators remain to be identified and characterized. To ensure balanced commitment of neutrophil-macrophage progenitors toward each lineage, the interplay among these determinants is not only synergistic, but also antagonistic. Depletion of interferon regulatory factor 2 binding protein 2b (Irf2bp2b), a well-known negative transcription regulator, results in a bias in neutrophil-macrophage progenitor cell fate in favor of macrophages at the expense of neutrophils during the stage of definitive myelopoiesis in zebrafish embryos. Mechanistic studies indicate that Irf2bp2b acts as a downstream target of C/EBPα, repressing PU.1 expression, and that SUMOylation confers the repressive function of Irf2bp2b. Thus, Irf2bp2b is a novel determinant in the choice of fate of neutrophil-macrophage progenitor cells.
A fast antibody response can be critical to contain rapidly dividing pathogens. This can be achieved by the expansion of antigen-specific B cells in response to T-cell help followed by differentiation into plasmablasts. MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) is required for optimal T-cell-dependent extrafollicular responses via regulation of PU.1, although the cellular processes underlying this defect are largely unknown. Here, we show that miR-155 regulates the early expansion of B-blasts and later on the survival and proliferation of plasmablasts in a B-cell-intrinsic manner, by tracking antigen-specific B cells in vivo since the onset of antigen stimulation. In agreement, comparative analysis of the transcriptome of miR-155-sufficient and miR-155-deficient plasmablasts at the peak of the response showed that the main processes regulated by miR-155 were DNA metabolic process, DNA replication, and cell cycle. Thus, miR-155 controls the extent of the extrafollicular response by regulating the survival and proliferation of B-blasts, plasmablasts and, consequently, antibody production.
Behçet disease (BD) is a multisystemic disease some of whose manifestations are characterized by pulmonary involvements. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the level of T-helper type 9 (Th9) cells and the cytokine interleukin (IL)-9 in peripheral blood and in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) of patients with Behçet's disease (BD) affected by pulmonary manifestations. Nevertheless, until recently there have been no studies on its role in BD. The Th9 (CD4+IL-9+T) cell, transcription factor PU.1 and IL-9 mRNA levels, as well as serum and BAL IL-9 concentration, were measured in BD patients and healthy controls. The Th9 cell percentage and absolute number, PU.1 and IL-9 expression levels of BD patients were all increased significantly compared with the control group. Absolute number of Th9 cells was particularly increased in patients with active BD compared to inactive BD patients. The levels of IL-9 associated to Th9 expression depended on BD severity. These parameters were markedly expressed in the BAL of BD patients with pulmonary manifestations. IL-17 and the epithelial inflammatory cytokine TSLP were significantly correlated to IL-9 levels. This cytokine trio decreased in inactive BD patients after corticosteroïd treatment. In addition, IL-9 levels were correlated to CD4+ IL-9+ cells in BAL and in PBMCs. LPS stimulated PBMCs and macrophages induced increased secretion of IL-9 and the encoding transcription factors PU.1 and IRF4. In conclusion, the expansion of the Th9 cell subset, up-regulation of the PU.1 transcription factor and increased secretion of the IL-9 cytokine may contribute to the pathogenesis of BD, which may be supported by the increased release of IL-17 and TSLP. We provide evidence that Th9 T cells are increased in BD patients with pulmonary manifestations. This suggests an important role of IL-9 in the pathogenesis of BD particularly in patients suffering from lung involvement.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2019 Jun;20(6):670-671.
The ETS-domain transcription factors divide into subfamilies based on protein similarities, DNA-binding sequences, and interaction with cofactors. They are regulated by extracellular clues and contribute to cellular processes, including proliferation and transformation. ETS genes are targeted through genomic rearrangements in oncogenesis. The PU.1/SPI1 gene is inactivated by point mutations in human myeloid malignancies. We identified a recurrent somatic mutation (Q226E) in PU.1/SPI1 in Waldenström macroglobulinemia, a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder. It affects the DNA-binding affinity of the protein and allows the mutant protein to more frequently bind and activate promoter regions with respect to wild-type protein. Mutant SPI1 binding at promoters activates gene sets typically promoted by other ETS factors, resulting in enhanced proliferation and decreased terminal B-cell differentiation in model cell lines and primary samples. In summary, we describe oncogenic subversion of transcription factor function through subtle alteration of DNA binding leading to cellular proliferation and differentiation arrest. SIGNIFICANCE: The demonstration that a somatic point mutation tips the balance of genome-binding pattern provides a mechanistic paradigm for how missense mutations in transcription factor genes may be oncogenic in human tumors.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 681.
The IRF and Ets families of transcription factors regulate the expression of a range of genes involved in immune cell development and function. However, the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of each family member has been limited due to their redundancy and broad effects on multiple lineages of cells. Here, we report that double deletion of floxed Irf8 and Spi1 (encoding PU.1) by Mb1-Cre (designated DKO mice) in the B cell lineage resulted in severe defects in the development of follicular and germinal center (GC) B cells. Class-switch recombination and antibody affinity maturation were also compromised in DKO mice. RNA-seq (sequencing) and ChIP-seq analyses revealed distinct IRF8 and PU.1 target genes in follicular and activated B cells. DKO B cells had diminished expression of target genes vital for maintaining follicular B cell identity and GC development. Moreover, our findings reveal that expression of B-cell lymphoma protein 6 (BCL6), which is critical for development of germinal center B cells, is dependent on IRF8 and PU.1 in vivo, providing a mechanism for the critical role for IRF8 and PU.1 in the development of GC B cells.
OBJECTIVE: By neutralizing IL-9 in a nude mouse model, the study aimed to investigate the role of Th9/IL-9 on the growth of gastric cancer in mice.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Male BALB/c nude mice were randomly divided into three groups: a normal control group (Control), an SGC-7901 xenografted nude mice model group (Model), and a rIL-9 treatment group (Treat). The weight of the tumors was recorded to calculate the tumor inhibition rate. Flow cytometry was used to detect the cell frequency of Th9, Th17, and Treg in peripheral blood. The IL-4, IL-9, IL-10, IL-25, VEGF, and TGF-β levels in serum were determined by ELISA. The cellular migration and invasion were investigated by transwell assay. Immunohistochemical and Western blot were used to detect the expression of IL-9, CD34, PU.1, p53, and p21 proteins in gastric cancer tissue. The mRNA expression levels of IL-9, IL-21, and PU.1 in gastric cancer tissue were determined by qRT-PCR.RESULT: rIL-9 can significantly inhibit the growth of gastric cancer. The frequency of Th9, Th17, and Treg in peripheral blood was decreased upon treatment. The levels of IL-4, IL-9, IL-10, IL-25, VEGF, and TGF-β in serum were significantly reduced in the Treat group compared with the Model group (P<0.05). rIL-9 can inhibit cellular migration and invasion and reduce the mRNA level of IL-9, IL-21, and PU.1. Meanwhile, in the Treat group, the expression of IL-9, CD34, and PU.1 was significantly reduced, whereas the expression of p53 and p21 was significantly increased compared with the Model group (P<0.05).CONCLUSION: This study suggested that Th9/IL-9 has a deleterious role in gastric cancer.
Reduced expression of the transcription factor PU.1 is frequently associated with development of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), whereas elevated levels of CITED2 (CBP/p300-interacting-transactivator-with-an-ED-rich-tail 2) enhance maintenance of both normal and leukemic hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Recent findings indicate that PU.1 and CITED2 act in the same gene regulatory network. We therefore examined a potential synergistic effect of simultaneous PU.1 downregulation and CITED2 upregulation on stem cell biology and AML pathogenesis. We found that simultaneous PU.1/CITED2 deregulation in human CD34+ cord blood (CB) cells, as well as CITED2 upregulation in preleukemic murine PU.1-knockdown (PU.1KD/KD) bone marrow cells, significantly increased the maintenance of HSPCs compared with the respective deregulation of either factor alone. Increased replating capacity of PU.1KD/KD/CITED2 cells in in vitro assays eventually resulted in outgrowth of transformed cells, while upregulation of CITED2 in PU.1KD/KD cells enhanced their engraftment in in vivo transplantation studies without affecting leukemic transformation. Transcriptional analysis of CD34+ CB cells with combined PU.1/CITED2 alterations revealed a set of differentially expressed genes that highly correlated with gene signatures found in various AML subtypes. These findings illustrate that combined PU.1/CITED2 deregulation induces a transcriptional program that promotes HSPC maintenance, which might be a prerequisite for malignant transformation.
Comment on    Nat Immunol. 2019 May;20(5):546-558.
The elongation of very long chain fatty acids protein 6 (ELOVL6) gene encodes a key enzyme that plays a role in lipogenesis through the catalytic elongation of both saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids. Previous studies have described the high expression of bovine ELOVL6 in adipose tissues. However, transcriptional regulation and the functional role of ELOVL6 in lipid metabolism and adipocyte proliferation remain unexplored. Here, a 1.5 kb fragment of the 5'-untranslated region promoter region of ELOVL6 was amplified from the genomic DNA of Qinchuan cattle and sequenced. The core promoter region was identified through unidirectional 5'-end deletion of the promoter plasmid vector. In silico analysis predicted important transcription factors that were then validated through site-directed mutation and small interfering RNA interference with an electrophoretic mobility shift assay. We found that the binding of KLF6 and PU.1 transcription factors occurred in the region -168/+69. Both perform a vital regulatory function in the transcription of bovine ELOVL6. Overexpression of ELOVL6 significantly upregulated the expression of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (PPARγ), but inhibited the expression of fatty acid-binding protein 4 (FABP4), while silencing of ELOVL6 negatively regulated the messenger RNA expression level of PPARγ, FABP4, ACSL, and FATP1. In addition, ELOVL6 promotes adipocyte proliferation by regulating the cell-cycle genes' expression. Taken together, these findings provide useful information about the transcriptional regulation and functional mechanisms of bovine ELOVL6 in lipid metabolism and adipocyte proliferation in Qinchuan cattle.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2019 May;20(5):520-522.
The molecular basis of vitamin D signaling implies that the metabolite 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) of the secosteroid vitamin D3 activates the transcription factor vitamin D receptor (VDR), which in turn modulates the expression of hundreds of primary vitamin D target genes. Since the evolutionary role of nuclear receptors, such as VDR, was the regulation of cellular metabolism, the control of calcium metabolism became the primary function of vitamin D and its receptor. Moreover, the nearly ubiquitous expression of VDR enabled vitamin D to acquire additional physiological functions, such as the support of the innate immune system in its defense against microbes. Monocytes and their differentiated phenotypes, macrophages and dendritic cells, are key cell types of the innate immune system. Vitamin D signaling was most comprehensively investigated in THP-1 cells, which are an established model of human monocytes. This includes the 1,25(OH)2D3-modulated cistromes of VDR, the pioneer transcription factors PU.1 and CEBPA and the chromatin modifier CTCF as well as of the histone markers of promoter and enhancer regions, H3K4me3 and H3K27ac, respectively. These epigenome-wide datasets led to the development of our chromatin model of vitamin D signaling. This review discusses the mechanistic basis of 189 primary vitamin D target genes identified by transcriptome-wide analysis of 1,25(OH)2D3-stimulated THP-1 cells and relates the epigenomic basis of four different regulatory scenarios to the physiological functions of the respective genes.
Lineage switches are genetic regulatory motifs that govern and maintain the commitment of a developing cell to a particular cell fate. A canonical example of a lineage switch is the pair of transcription factors PU.1 and GATA-1, of which the former is affiliated with the myeloid and the latter with the erythroid lineage within the haematopoietic system. On a molecular level, PU.1 and GATA-1 positively regulate themselves and antagonize each other via direct protein-protein interactions. Here we use mathematical modelling to identify a novel type of dynamic behaviour that can be supported by such a regulatory architecture. Guided by the specifics of the PU.1-GATA-1 interaction, we formulate, using the law of mass action, a system of differential equations for the key molecular concentrations. After a series of systematic approximations, the system is reduced to a simpler one, which is tractable to phase-plane and linearization methods. The reduced system formally resembles, and generalizes, a well-known model for competitive species from mathematical ecology. However, in addition to the qualitative regimes exhibited by a pair of competitive species (exclusivity, bistable exclusivity, stable-node coexpression) it also allows for oscillatory limit-cycle coexpression. A key outcome of the model is that, in the context of cell-fate choice, such oscillations could be harnessed by a differentiating cell to prime alternately for opposite outcomes; a bifurcation-theory approach is adopted to characterize this possibility.
Differentiation of myeloid progenitor cells into macrophages is accompanied by increased PU.1 concentration and increasing cell cycle length, culminating in cell cycle arrest. Induction of PU.1 expression in a cultured myeloid cell line expressing low PU.1 concentration results in decreased levels of mRNA encoding ATP-Citrate Lyase (ACL) and cell cycle arrest. ACL is an essential enzyme for generating acetyl-CoA, a key metabolite for the first step in fatty acid synthesis and for histone acetylation. We hypothesized that ACL may play a role in cell cycle regulation in the myeloid lineage. In this study, we found that acetyl-CoA or acetate supplementation was sufficient to rescue cell cycle progression in cultured BN cells treated with an ACL inhibitor or induced for PU.1 expression. Acetyl-CoA supplementation was also sufficient to rescue cell cycle progression in BN cells treated with a fatty acid synthase (FASN) inhibitor. We demonstrated that acetyl-CoA was utilized in both fatty acid synthesis and histone acetylation pathways to promote proliferation. Finally, we found that Acly mRNA transcript levels decrease during normal macrophage differentiation from bone marrow precursors. Our results suggest that regulation of ACL activity is a potentially important point of control for cell cycle regulation in the myeloid lineage.
Nonylphenol (NP) is a widely distributed, toxic endocrine-disrupting chemical exhibiting estrogenic activity. However, its effect on allergic rhinitis (AR) remains unclear. In this study, the effects of NP on a murine model of AR were investigated. Mice were divided into ovalbumin (OVA), NP, and control groups. OVA was used for sensitization and challenge. Mice in the NP group were administered NP during the sensitization period. Allergic nasal symptoms and eosinophil counts in nasal mucosa were measured. Serum levels of OVA-specific IgE were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The mRNA levels of transcription factors of Th cells were determined with real-time polymerase chain reaction. Th cell subtypes and Treg numbers were counted with the aid of multi-color flow cytometry. Cytokine concentrations in nasal mucosa were determined using the cytometric bead array method. Subcutaneous injection of NP into mice exhibiting AR enhanced not only the nasal allergic symptoms, but also eosinophil infiltration and OVA-specific IgE. Moreover, NP upregulated IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-9, IL-6 and IL-17, and downregulated IL-10, in the AR mouse model; IFN-γ and IL-23 were not affected. Transcription factors and Th cell percentages were evaluated to determine whether NP regulates Th cell subtypes in an AR mouse model. GATA3, PU.1, and RORγt levels were significantly increased, but FoxP3 and Helios were decreased. In addition, Th2, Th9, and Th17 subtype percentages significantly increased, and Treg cell percentages decreased, in NP administration groups; the percentage of Th1 subtypes was not affected. NP enhanced allergic inflammation in the AR mouse model through upregulation of Th2, Th9, and Th17 responses and negative regulation of Treg responses. These results suggest that NP may be trigger AR.
PU.1 is an ETS-family transcription factor that plays a broad range of roles in hematopoiesis. A direct regulator of myeloid, dendritic-cell, and B cell functional programs, and a well-known antagonist of terminal erythroid cell differentiation, it is also expressed in the earliest stages of T-cell development of each cohort of intrathymic pro-T cells. Its expression in this context appears to give T-cell precursors initial, transient access to myeloid and dendritic cell developmental competence and therefore to represent a source of antagonism or delay of T-cell lineage commitment. However, it has remained uncertain until recently why T-cell development is also intensely dependent upon PU.1. Here, we review recent work that sheds light on the molecular biology of PU.1 action across the genome in pro-T cells and identifies the genes that depend on PU.1 for their correct regulation. This work indicates modes of chromatin engagement, pioneering, and cofactor recruitment ("coregulator theft") by PU.1 as well as gene network interactions that not only affect specific target genes but also have system-wide regulatory consequences, amplifying the impact of PU.1 beyond its own direct binding targets. The genes directly regulated by PU.1 also suggest a far-reaching transformation of cell biology and signaling potential between the early stages of T-cell development when PU.1 is expressed and when it is silenced. These cell-biological functions can be important to distinguish fetal from adult T-cell development and have the potential to illuminate aspects of thymic function that have so far remained the most mysterious.
With the introduction of arsenic trioxide and all-trans retinoic acid, the prognosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia has greatly improved. However, all-trans retinoic acid resistance is still unresolved in acute promyelocytic leukemia relapsed patients. In this study, the clinical achievable concentration of 7-hydroxystaurosporine synergized with all-trans retinoic acid to induce terminal differentiation in all-trans retinoic acid resistant acute promyelocytic leukemia cell lines. Though 7-hydroxystaurosporine is a PKC inhibitor, PKC might not be involved in the combination-induced differentiation since other PKC selective inhibitors, Gö 6976 and rottlerin failed to cooperate with all-trans retinoic acid to trigger differentiation. The combination significantly enhanced the protein level of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β and/or PU.1 as well as activated MEK/ERK. U0126 (MEK specific inhibitor) not only suppressed the combination-induced differentiation but also restored the protein level of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β and/or PU.1. However, RAF-1 inhibitor had no inhibitory effect on MEK activation and the combination-induced differentiation. Therefore, the combination overcame differentiation block via RAF-1 independent MEK/ERK modulation of the protein level of CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β and/or PU.1. These findings may provide a preclinical rationale for the potential role of this combination in the treatment of all-trans retinoic acid resistant acute promyelocytic leukemia patients.
Erratum for    Leukemia. 2019 Jun;33(6):1411-1426.
Comment on    Nature. 2019 Feb;566(7744):344-349.
The concept of tissue-specific gene expression posits that lineage-determining transcription factors (LDTFs) determine the open chromatin profile of a cell via collaborative binding, providing molecular beacons to signal-dependent transcription factors (SDTFs). However, the guiding principles of LDTF binding, chromatin accessibility and enhancer activity have not yet been systematically evaluated. We sought to study these features of the macrophage genome by the combination of experimental (ChIP-seq, ATAC-seq and GRO-seq) and computational approaches. We show that Random Forest and Support Vector Regression machine learning methods can accurately predict chromatin accessibility using the binding patterns of the LDTF PU.1 and four other key TFs of macrophages (IRF8, JUNB, CEBPA and RUNX1). Any of these TFs alone were not sufficient to predict open chromatin, indicating that TF binding is widespread at closed or weakly opened chromatin regions. Analysis of the PU.1 cistrome revealed that two-thirds of PU.1 binding occurs at low accessible chromatin. We termed these sites labelled regulatory elements (LREs), which may represent a dormant state of a future enhancer and contribute to macrophage cellular plasticity. Collectively, our work demonstrates the existence of LREs occupied by various key TFs, regulating specific gene expression programs triggered by divergent macrophage polarizing stimuli.
Fluorotelomer alcohols (FTOHs) are fluorinated intermediates used in manufacturing specialty polymer and surfactants, with 8:2 FTOH the homologue of largest production. FTOHs were found to pose acute toxicity, hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, developmental toxicity and endocrine-disrupting risks, whereas research regarding immunotoxicity and its underlying mechanism, especially on specific immune cells is limited. Here, we investigated the immunotoxicity of 8:2 FTOH on immature immune cells in an in vitro system. We observed that exposure of HL-60 cells, a human promyelocytic leukemic cell line, to 8:2 FTOH reduced cell viability in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In addition, 8:2 FTOH exposure caused G1 cell cycle arrest in HL-60 cells, while it showed no effect on apoptosis. Exposure to 8:2 FTOH inhibited the mRNA expression of cell cycle-related genes, including CCNA1, CCNA2, CCND1, and CCNE2. Moreover, exposure to 8:2 FTOH inhibited the mRNA expression of granulocytic differentiation-related genes of CD11b, CSF3R, PU.1, and C/EPBε in HL-60 cells . Furthermore, 8:2 FTOH exhibited no effect on intracellular ROS level, while hydralazine hydrochloride (Hyd), one reactive carbonyl species (RCS) scavenger, partially blocked 8:2 FTOH-caused cytotoxicity in HL-60 cells. Overall, the results obtained in the study show that 8:2 FTOH poses immunotoxicity in immature immune cells and RCS may partially underline its mechanism.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 8 (CDK8) is a mediator complex-associated transcriptional regulator that acts depending on context and cell type. While primarily under investigation as potential cancer therapeutics, some inhibitors of CDK8-and its paralog CDK19-have been reported to affect the osteoblast lineage and bone formation. This study investigated the effects of two selective CDK8/19 inhibitors on osteoclastogenesis and osteoblasts in vitro, and further evaluated how local treatment with a CDK8/19 inhibitor affects cancellous bone healing in rats. CDK8/19 inhibitors did not alter the proliferation of neither mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs) nor primary mouse osteoblasts. Receptor activator of nuclear factor κΒ (NF-κB) ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclastogenesis from mouse BMMs was suppressed markedly by inhibition of CDK8/19, concomitant with reduced tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activity and C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen levels. This was accompanied by downregulation of PU.1, RANK, NF-κB, nuclear factor of activated T-cells 1 (NFATc1), dendritic cell-specific transmembrane protein (DC-STAMP), TRAP, and cathepsin K in RANKL-stimulated BMMs. Downregulating RANK and its downstream signaling in osteoclast precursors enforce CDK8/19 inhibitors as anticatabolic agents to impede excessive osteoclastogenesis. In mouse primary osteoblasts, CDK8/19 inhibition did not affect differentiation but enhanced osteoblast mineralization by promoting alkaline phosphatase activity and downregulating osteopontin, a negative regulator of mineralization. In rat tibiae, a CDK8/19 inhibitor administered locally promoted cancellous bone regeneration. Our data indicate that inhibitors of CDK8/19 have the potential to develop into therapeutics to restrict osteolysis and enhance bone regeneration.
Receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL) induces osteoclast (OC) differentiation from bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs). The transcription factors nuclear factor of activated T cells 1 (NFATc1) and interferon regulatory factor (IRF) 8 play positive and negative roles, respectively, in this process. However, genomewide mapping of the active cis-regulatory elements regulating OC differentiation has not been performed, and little is known about the global landscape of OC-specific gene regulation. We used chromatin immunoprecipitation and formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements followed by sequencing to show that PU.1 transcription factor binding motifs were overrepresented at active cis-regulatory regions in both murine BMMs and OCs, while IRF and NFAT binding motifs were selectively enriched at these regions in BMMs and OCs, respectively. We also found that RANKL induced the downregulation of Irf8 and upregulation of Nfatc1 expression, which was associated with dramatic alterations in histone modification. BMM-specific PU.1 binding sites were observed to overlap with IRF8 binding sites in BMMs, and this also occurred for OC-specific PU.1 binding sites and NFATc1 binding sites in OCs. The expression of genes with IRF8 peaks within BMM-specific PU.1 binding sites was significantly higher in BMMs than in OCs, while that of genes with NFATc1 peaks within OC-specific PU.1 binding sites was significantly higher in OCs than in BMMs. Our results suggest that PU.1 switches its transcription partner from IRF8 to NFATc1 and alters the binding regions during RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis, which is associated with changes in epigenetic profiles and the control of cell type-specific gene expression. © 2019 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
The chemokine CCL22 is predominantly produced by dendritic cells (DCs) and macrophages. CCL22 acts on CCR4-expressing cells including Th2 and Treg. Although a correlation between the CCL22-CCR4 axis and allergic diseases has been established, the mechanism of monocyte lineage-specific Ccl22 gene expression is largely unknown. In the current study, we investigated transcriptional regulation of the Ccl22 gene in DCs and macrophages. Using reporter assays, we identified the critical cis-enhancing elements at 21/-18 and -10/-4 in the Ccl22 promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays proved that transcription factor PU.1 directly binds to the cis-elements. Knockdown of PU.1 markedly decreased Ccl22 expression in bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs) and BM macrophages (BMDMs). Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that PU.1 bound to the Ccl22 promoter in not only BMDCs and BMDMs, but also splenic DCs and peritoneal macrophages. LPS stimulation increased the amount of PU.1 recruited to the promoter, accompanied by upregulation of the Ccl22 mRNA level, which was diminished by Spi1 knockdown. We identified similar cis-elements on the human CCL22 promoter, which were bound with PU.1 in human monocytes. Taken together, these findings indicate that PU.1 transactivates the Ccl22 gene in DCs and macrophages by directly binding to the two elements in the promoter.
Comment in    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2019 Apr;15(4):187.    Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2019 Nov;61(5):653-655.    Gut Liver. 2023 May 15;17(3):360-374.
PURPOSE: Defective homologous recombination (HR) has been reported in multiple myeloid disorders, suggesting a shared dysregulated pathway in these diverse malignancies. Because targeting HR-defective cancers with PARP inhibition (PARPi) has yielded clinical benefit, improved understanding of HR defects is needed to implement this treatment modality.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We used an ex vivo irradiation-based assay to evaluate HR repair, HR gene promoter methylation, and mRNA expression in primary myeloid neoplastic cells. In vitro BRCA1 gene silencing was achieved to determine the consequences on HR repair, sensitivity to PARPi, and expression of miR-155, an oncogenic miRNA.RESULTS: Impaired HR repair was frequently detected in myeloid neoplasm samples (9/21, 43%) and was linked to promoter methylation-mediated transcriptional repression of BRCA1, which was not observed for other members of the HR pathway (BRCA2, ATM, ATR, FANC-A). In vitro BRCA1 knockdown increased sensitivity to PARP inhibition, and BRCA1 expression is inversely correlated with miR-155 expression, a finding reproduced in vitro with BRCA1 knockdown. Increased miR-155 was associated with PU.1 and SHIP1 repression, known myeloid differentiation factors that are frequently downregulated during leukemic transformation.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates frequent defective HR, associated with BRCA1 epigenetic silencing, in a broad range of myeloid neoplasms. The increased prevalence of BRCA1 promoter methylation, resulting in repressed BRCA1, may have an additional role in leukemogenesis by increasing miR-155 expression, which then inhibits transcription factors associated with normal myeloid differentiation. Further study of HR defects may facilitate the identification of HR-defective myeloid neoplasms sensitive to PARPi.
Erratum in    Leukemia. 2019 Mar 5;:
High-throughput (HT) in vitro methods for measuring protein-DNA binding have become invaluable for characterizing transcription factor (TF) complexes and modeling gene regulation. However, current methods do not utilize endogenous proteins and, therefore, do not quantify the impact of cell-specific post-translational modifications (PTMs) and cooperative cofactors. We introduce the HT nextPBM (nuclear extract protein-binding microarray) approach to study DNA binding of native cellular TFs that accounts for PTMs and cell-specific cofactors. We integrate immune-depletion and phosphatase treatment steps into our nextPBM pipeline to characterize the impact of cofactors and phosphorylation on TF binding. We analyze binding of PU.1/SPI1 and IRF8 from human monocytes, delineate DNA-sequence determinants for their cooperativity, and show how PU.1 affinity correlates with enhancer status and the presence of cooperative and collaborative cofactors. We describe how nextPBMs, and our accompanying computational framework, can be used to discover cell-specific cofactors, screen for synthetic cooperative DNA elements, and characterize TF cooperativity.
Bone-resorbing osteoclasts (OCs) are derived from myeloid precursors (MPs). Several transcription factors are implicated in OC differentiation and function; however, their hierarchical architecture and interplay are not well known. Analysis for enriched motifs in PU.1 and MITF chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) data from differentiating OCs identified eomesodermin (EOMES) as a potential novel binding partner of PU.1 and MITF at genes critical for OC differentiation and function. We were able to demonstrate using co-immunoprecipitation and sequential ChIP analysis that PU.1, MITF, and EOMES are in the same complex and present as a complex at OC genomic loci. Furthermore, EOMES knockdown in MPs led to osteopetrosis associated with decreased OC differentiation and function both in vitro and in vivo. Although EOMES is associated with embryonic development and other hematopoietic lineages, this is the first study demonstrating the requirement of EOMES in the myeloid compartment.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are can be broadly divided into conventional (cDC) and plasmacytoid (pDC) subsets. Despite the importance of this lineage diversity, its genetic basis is not fully understood. We found that conditional ablation of the Ets-family transcription factor PU.1 in DC-restricted progenitors led to increased pDC production at the expense of cDCs. PU.1 controlled many of the cardinal functions of DCs, such as antigen presentation by cDCs and type I interferon production by pDCs. Conditional ablation of PU.1 de-repressed the pDC transcriptional signature in cDCs. The combination of genome-wide mapping of PU.1 binding and gene expression analysis revealed a key role for PU.1 in maintaining cDC identity through the induction of the transcriptional regulator DC-SCRIPT. PU.1 activated DC-SCRIPT expression, which in turn promoted cDC formation, particularly of cDC1s, and repressed pDC development. Thus, cDC identity is regulated by a transcriptional node requiring PU.1 and DC-SCRIPT.
The eukaryotic transcription factor ETS1 is regulated by an intrinsically disordered serine-rich region (SRR) that transiently associates with the adjacent ETS domain to inhibit DNA binding. In this study, we further elucidated the physicochemical basis for ETS1 autoinhibition by characterizing the interaction of its ETS domain with a series of synthetic peptides corresponding to the SRR. Binding is driven by the hydrophobic effect and enhanced electrostatically by phosphorylation of serines adjacent to aromatic residues in the amphipathic SRR. Structural characterization of the dynamic peptide/protein complex by NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography revealed multiple modes of binding that lead to autoinhibition by synergistically blocking the DNA-binding interface of the ETS domain and stabilizing an appended helical inhibitory module against allosterically induced unfolding. Consistent with these conclusions, the SRR peptide does not interact with DNA-bound ETS1. In addition, we found that the ETS1 SRR phosphopeptide binds to distantly related PU.1 in vitro, indicating that autoinhibition exploits features of the ETS domain that are conserved across this family of transcription factors.
Microglia are the resident immune cells that maintain brain homeostasis and contribute to neurodegenerative disorders. Recent studies of microglia at transcriptomic and epigenetic levels revealed specific molecular pathways that regulate microglia development, maturation, and reactive states. The transcription factor PU.1 plays a key role in regulating several microglial functions. Environmental factors such as microbiota, early life stress, and maternal immune activation can dysregulate PU.1 and innate immune response. This review discusses the epigenetic regulation of key transcriptional factors in human and murine microglia, highlighting their networks for shaping the microglial function. PU.1 and other microglia-specific transcriptional factors can be further studied to determine their therapeutic applications in neurologic disorders.
Comment on    Blood. 2018 Dec 20;132(25):2643-2655.
The myeloid master regulator CCAAT enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA) is known as a pioneer factor. In this study, we report the CEBPA cistrome of THP-1 human monocytes after stimulation with the vitamin D receptor (VDR) ligand 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) for 2, 8 and 24 h. About a third of the genomic VDR binding sites co-located with those of CEBPA. In parallel, the binding strength of 5% of the CEBPA cistrome, i.e. some 1500 sites, is significantly (p < 0.001) affected by 1,25(OH)2D3. Transcriptome-wide analysis after CEBPA silencing indicated that the pioneer factor enhances both the basal expression and ligand inducibility of 70 vitamin D target genes largely involved in lipid signaling and metabolism. In contrast, CEBPA suppresses 82 vitamin D target genes many of which are related to the modulation of T cell activity by monocytes. The inducibility of the promoter-specific histone marker H3K4me3 distinguishes the former class of genes from the latter. Moreover, prominent occupancy of the myeloid pioneer factor PU.1 on 1,25(OH)2D3-sensitive CEBPA enhancers mechanistically explains the dichotomy of vitamin D target genes. In conclusion, CEBPA supports vitamin D signaling concerning actions of the innate immune system, but uses the antagonism with PU.1 for suppressing possible overreactions of adaptive immunity.
Elevated levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα) inhibit erythropoiesis and cause anemia in patients with cancer and chronic inflammatory diseases. TNFα is also a potent activator of the sphingomyelinase (SMase)/ceramide pathway leading to ceramide synthesis and regulating cell differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis, senescence, and autophagy. Here we evaluated the implication of the TNFα/SMase/ceramide pathway on inhibition of erythropoiesis in human CD34+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (CD34/HSPCs) from healthy donors. Exogenous synthetic C2- and C6-ceramide as well as bacterial SMase inhibited erythroid differentiation in erythropoietin-induced (Epo)CD34/HSPCs shown by the analysis of various erythroid markers. The neutral SMase inhibitor GW4869 as well as the genetic inhibition of nSMase with small interfering RNA (siRNA) against sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 3 (SMPD3) prevented the inhibition by TNFα, but not the acid SMase inhibitor desipramine. Moreover, sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a ceramide metabolite, restored erythroid differentiation, whereas TNFα inhibited sphingosine kinase-1, required for S1P synthesis. Analysis of cell morphology and colony formation demonstrated that erythropoiesis impairment was concomitant with a granulomonocytic differentiation in TNFα- and ceramide-treated EpoCD34/HSPCs. Inhibition of erythropoiesis and induction of granulomonocytic differentiation were correlated to modulation of hematopoietic transcription factors (TFs) GATA-1, GATA-2, and PU.1. Moreover, the expression of microRNAs (miR)-144/451, miR-146a, miR-155, and miR-223 was also modulated by TNFα and ceramide treatments, in line with cellular observations. Autophagy plays an essential role during erythropoiesis and our results demonstrate that the TNFα/neutral SMase/ceramide pathway inhibits autophagy in EpoCD34/HSPCs. TNFα- and ceramide-induced phosphorylation of mTORS2448 and ULK1S758, inhibited Atg13S355 phosphorylation, and blocked autophagosome formation as shown by transmission electron microscopy and GFP-LC3 punctae formation. Moreover, rapamycin prevented the inhibitory effect of TNFα and ceramides on erythropoiesis while inhibiting induction of myelopoiesis. In contrast, bafilomycin A1, but not siRNA against Atg5, induced myeloid differentiation, while both impaired erythropoiesis. We demonstrate here that the TNFα/neutral SMase/ceramide pathway inhibits erythropoiesis to induce myelopoiesis via modulation of a hematopoietic TF/miR network and inhibition of late steps of autophagy. Altogether, our results reveal an essential role of autophagy in erythroid vs. myeloid differentiation.
During T cell differentiation and activation, specific stimuli, and a network of transcription factors (TFs) are involved in orchestrating chromatin accessibility, establishing enhancer-promoter interactions, and regulating gene expression. Over the past few years, there have been new insights into how chromatin interactions coordinate differentiation during T cell development and how regulatory elements are programmed to allow T cells to differentially respond to distinct stimuli. In this review, we discuss recent advances related to the roles of TFs in establishing the regulatory chromatin landscapes that orchestrate T cell development and differentiation. In particular, we focus on the role of TFs (e.g., TCF-1, BCL11B, PU.1, STAT3, STAT5, AP-1, and IRF4) in mediating chromatin accessibility and interactions and in regulating gene expression in T cells, including gene expression that is dependent on IL-2 and IL-21. Furthermore, we discuss the state of knowledge on enhancer-promoter interactions and how autoimmune disease risk variants can be linked to molecular functions of putative target genes.
Comment on    Sci Immunol. 2018 Dec 7;3(30):
Comment in    Sci Immunol. 2018 Dec 7;3(30):
Bone homeostasis is strictly regulated by balanced activity of bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts.Disruption of the balance of activity between osteoblasts and osteoclasts leads to various metabolic bone diseases. Osteoclasts are cells of hematopoietic origin that they are large, multinucleated cells formed by the fusion of precursor cells of monocyte/macrophage lineage, they are unique cells that degrade the bone matrix, activation of transcription factors nuclear factoractivated T cells c1 (NFATc1) is required for sufficient osteoclast differentiation and it plays the role of a master transcription regulator of osteoclast differentiation, meanwhile, NFATc1 could be employed to elicit anabolic effects on bone. In this review, we have summarized the various mechanisms that control NFATc1 regulation during osteoclast and osteoblast differentiation as well as a new strategy for promoting bone regeneration in osteopenic disease.
A central issue in the analysis of multi-stable systems is that of controlling the relative size of the basins of attraction of alternative states through suitable choices of system parameters. We are interested here mainly in the stochastic version of this problem, that of shaping the stationary probability distribution of a Markov chain so that various alternative modes become more likely than others. Although many of our results are more general, we were motivated by an important biological question, that of cell differentiation. In the mathematical modeling of cell differentiation, it is common to think of internal states of cells (quanfitied by activation levels of certain genes) as determining the different cell types. Specifically, we study here the "PU.1/GATA-1 circuit" which is involved in the control of the development of mature blood cells from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). All mature, specialized blood cells have been shown to be derived from multipotent HSCs. Our first contribution is to introduce a rigorous chemical reaction network model of the PU.1/GATA-1 circuit, which incorporates current biological knowledge. We then find that the resulting ODE model of these biomolecular reactions is incapable of exhibiting multistability, contradicting the fact that differentiation networks have, by definition, alternative stable steady states. When considering instead the stochastic version of this chemical network, we analytically construct the stationary distribution, and are able to show that this distribution is indeed capable of admitting a multiplicity of modes. Finally, we study how a judicious choice of system parameters serves to bias the probabilities towards different stationary states. We remark that certain changes in system parameters can be physically implemented by a biological feedback mechanism; tuning this feedback gives extra degrees of freedom that allow one to assign higher likelihood to some cell types over others.
Microglial activation occurs in divergent neuropathological conditions. Such microglial event has the key involvement in the progression of CNS diseases. However, the transcriptional mechanism governing microglial activation remains poorly understood. Here, we investigate the microglial response to traumatic injury-induced neurodegeneration by the 3D fluorescence imaging technique. We show that transcription factors IRF8 and PU.1 are both indispensible for microglial activation, as their specific post-developmental deletion in microglia abolishes the process. Mechanistically, we reveal that IRF8 and PU.1 directly target the gene transcription of each other in a positive feedback to sustain their highly enhanced expression during microglial activation. Moreover, IRF8 and PU.1 dictate the microglial response by cooperatively acting through the composite IRF-ETS motifs that are specifically enriched on microglial activation-related genes. This action of cooperative transcription can be further verified biochemically by the synergetic binding of IRF8 and PU.1 proteins to the composite-motif DNA. Our study has therefore elucidated the central transcriptional mechanism of microglial activation in response to neurodegenerative condition.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play significant roles in both embryonic hematopoiesis and hematological malignancy. Zebrafish miR-462-731 cluster is orthologous of miR-191-425 in human which regulates proliferation and tumorigenesis. In our previous work, miR-462-731 was found highly and ubiquitously expressed during early embryogenesis. In this study, by loss-of-function analysis (morpholino knockdown combined with CRISRP/Cas9 knockout) and mRNA profiling, we suggest that miR-462-731 is required for normal embryonic development by regulating cell survival. We found that loss of miR-462/miR-731 caused a remarkable decrease in the number of erythroid cells as well as an ectopic myeloid cell expansion at 48 hpf, suggesting a skewing of myeloid-erythroid lineage differentiation. Mechanistically, miR-462-731 provides an instructive input for pu.1-dependent primitive myelopoiesis through regulating etsrp/scl signaling combined with a novel pu.1/miR-462-731 feedback loop. On the other hand, morpholino (MO) knockdown of miR-462/miR-731 resulted in an expansion of posterior blood islands at 24 hpf, which is a mild ventralization phenotype resulted from elevation of BMP signaling. Rescue experiments with both BMP type I receptor inhibitor dorsomorphin and alk8 MO indicate that miR-462-731 acts upstream of alk8 within the BMP/Smad signaling pathway and functions as a novel endogenous BMP antagonist. Besides, an impairment of angiogenesis was observed in miR-462/miR-731 morphants. The specification of arteries and veins was also perturbed, as characterized by the irregular patterning of efnb2a and flt4 expression. Our study unveils a previously unrecognized role of miR-462-731 in BMP/Smad signaling mediated hematopoietic specification of mesodermal progenitors and demonstrates a miR-462-731 mediated regulatory mechanism driving primitive myelopoiesis in the ALPM. We also show a requirement for miR-462-731 in regulating arterial-venous specification and definitive hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) production. The current findings might provide further insights into the molecular mechanistic basis of miRNA regulation of embryonic hematopoiesis and hematological malignancy.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, immune-mediated, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). There is no known cure for MS, and currently available drugs for managing this disease are only effective early on and have many adverse side effects. Results from recent studies suggest that histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors may be useful for the treatment of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases such as MS. However, the underlying mechanisms by which HDACs influence immune-mediated diseases such as MS are unclear. More importantly, the question of which specific HDAC(s) are suitable drug targets for the potential treatment of MS remains unanswered. Here, we investigate the functional role of HDAC11 in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, a mouse model for MS. Our results indicate that the loss of HDAC11 in KO mice significantly reduces clinical severity and demyelination of the spinal cord in the post-acute phase of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. The absence of HDAC11 leads to reduced immune cell infiltration into the CNS and decreased monocytes and myeloid DCs in the chronic progressive phase of the disease. Mechanistically, HDAC11 controls the expression of the pro-inflammatory chemokine C-C motif ligand 2 (CCL2) gene by enabling the binding of PU.1 transcription factor to the CCL2 promoter. Our results reveal a novel pathophysiological function for HDAC11 in CNS demyelinating diseases, and warrant further investigations into the potential use of HDAC11-specific inhibitors for the treatment of chronic progressive MS.
RALDH2 expressed in dendritic cells (DCs) plays a critical role in the development of regulatory T cells in mesenteric lymph nodes. Despite the importance of RALDH2 in intestinal immunity, little is known about the mechanism of DC-specific expression of RALDH2. In the current study, we focused on the hematopoietic cell-specific transcription factors PU.1 and IRF4 as the determinants of Aldh1a2 gene expression. The mRNA level of Aldh1a2, and subsequently the enzyme activity, were decreased by knockdown of PU.1 and IRF4 in bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs) of BALB/c mice. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed that PU.1 and IRF4 bound to the Aldh1a2 gene ∼2 kb upstream from the transcription start site in BMDCs. A reporter assay and an EMSA revealed that the Aldh1a2 promoter was synergistically transactivated by a heterodimer composed with PU.1 and IRF4 via the EICE motif at -1961/-1952 of the gene. The effect of small interfering RNAs for Spi1 and Irf4 and specific binding of PU.1 and IRF4 on the Aldh1a2 gene were also observed in DCs freshly isolated from spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes, respectively. GM-CSF stimulation upregulated the Aldh1a2 transcription in Flt3 ligand-generated BMDCs, in which the IRF4 expression and the PU.1 recruitment to the Aldh1a2 promoter were enhanced. We conclude that PU.1 and IRF4 are transactivators of the Aldh1a2 gene in vitro and ex vivo.
Mitochondrial Translocator protein (18 kDa) (TSPO) is strongly expressed in reactive microglia and serves as a therapeutic target for alleviation of neuronal degeneration. However, little is known about TSPO's transcriptional regulation in microglia. The aim of this study was to identify genetic elements and transcription factors required for basal and inducible TSPO expression in microglia. Murine Tspo promoter was cloned into the pGL4.10 luciferase vector and functionally characterized in BV-2 cells. Deletion mutagenesis indicated that -845 bases upstream were sufficient to reconstitute near maximal promoter activity in BV-2. Deletion of -593 to -520 sequences, which harbour an Ap1, Ets.2 and Nkx3.1 site which also serves as a non-canonical binding site for Sp1-family transcription factors, led to a dramatic decrease in both basal and LPS induced promoter activity. Further deletion of -168 to -39 sequences, which contains four GC boxes, also led to a significant decrease in promoter activity. Targeted mutations of Ap1, Ets.2, Nkx3.1/Sp1/3/4 and the GC boxes led to significant decreases in promoter activity. ChIP-qPCR revealed that Pu.1, Ap1, Stat3, Sp1, Sp3 and Sp4 bind to the endogenous Tspo promoter. Notably, binding of these factors, with the exception of Stat3, was significantly enhanced upon LPS treatment. RNAi silencing of Pu.1, cJun, cFos, Sp1, Sp3, Sp4 and Stat3 strongly lowered Tspo promoter activity while Ap1 silencing inhibited LPS induced increase in Tspo protein levels. These findings demonstrate that consensus binding sequences for Ap1, Ets.2, distal as well as proximal Sp1/3/4 sites regulate basal and LPS induced Tspo promoter activity in microglia.
Lactobacilli have immunomodulatory mechanisms that affect the host cell immune system, leading to inhibition of HIV-1 transmission. Thus, lactobacilli as mucosal delivery vehicles for developing HIV-1 vaccines have attracted interest in recent years. Herein, we investigated the immunomodulatory effects of six strains of Lactobacillus naturally isolated from vaginal samples, including Lactobacillus crispatus (L. crispatus), L. fermentum, L. jensenii, L. gasseri, L. delbrueckii and L. johnsonii, on differentiation of monocytic precursors. L. crispatus, L. fermentum and L. delbrueckii could drive human monocytic cell line THP-1 cells to differentiate into dendritic-like cells according to the morphology. Moreover, L. crispatus increased costimulatory molecules including CD40, CD80 and CD86, and Langerhans cell specific C-type lectin receptors CD207, while L. fermentum decreased these molecules in THP-1 cells. Furthermore, L. crispatus promoted the differentiation of THP-1 cells with specific markers, phagocytic features, cytokine production ability and reduced the expression of receptors for HIV-1 entry of Langerhans cells. However, in the presence of L. fermentum, THP-1 cells did not show the above alterations. Moreover, similar effects of L. crispatus and L. fermentum were observed in CD14+ monocytes. These data suggested that L. crispatus facilitates the differentiation of monocytic precursors toward Langerhans-like cells in vitro. We further identified the cell wall components of Lactobacillus and found that peptidoglycans (PGNs), rather than bacteriocins, S-layer protein and lipoteichoic acid, were key contributors to the induction of CD207 expression. However, PGNs originating from Bacillus subtilis, E. coli JM109 and E. coli DH5α did not elevate CD207 expression, indicating that only PGN derived from Lactobacillus could enhance CD207 expression. Finally, the recognized receptors of L. crispatus (such as TLR2 and TLR6) and the upstream transcription factors (PU.1, TAL1, TIF1γ, and POLR2A) of CD207 were examined, and the expression of these molecules was enhanced in THP-1 cells following L. crispatus treatment. Thus, this study offers powerful evidence that vaginal lactobacilli modulate monocytic precursor differentiation into Langerhans-like cells probably via activating the TLR2/6-TFs-CD207 axis. These data provide clues for further investigation of the original occurrence, development and differentiation of Langerhans cells from monocytes.
The incidence of allergic asthma has been increasing year by year. It is estimated that there are more than 300 million illnesses. It is associated with increased IgE, mast cell activation, airway hyperreactivity, excessive mucus production, and airway remodeling. The traditional view is that allergic asthma is associated with allergic reactions involving T helper type 2 (Th2) cells. Recent studies have found that different subsets of CD4+ T cells (Th17, Th9) as well as innately immunized cells such as mast cells and innate lymphocyte type 2 (ILC2s) are able to produce cytokine IL-9, leading to asthma. Th9 cells develop from nave T cells to IL-9 producing cells in the presence of IL-4 and TGF-β. IRF4, GATA3, a basic leucine zipper transcription factor, several transcription factors downstream of BATF and IL-4 such as signal transduction and STAT6-activated NFAT are activated. In addition, the transcription factor PU.1 downstream of TGF-β signaling appears to be also critical for the development of Th9 cells. IL-9 is a pleiotropic cytokine that affects the function of different target cells such as T cells, B cells, mast cells and airway epithelial cells by activating STAT1, STAT3 and STAT5. Due to its versatility, IL-9 has been shown to be involved in several diseases such as cancer, autoimmunity and other pathogenmediated immunomodulatory diseases. This article reviews the role of Th9 and IL-9producing cells in allergic asthma.
LL-37, the only known human cathelicidin which is encoded by the human antimicrobial peptide (CAMP) gene, plays a critical role in protection against bacterial infection. We previously demonstrated that cathelicidin is induced by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH) 2 D 3 ) in human airway epithelial cells with a resultant increase in bactericidal activity. In this study we identify key factors that co-operate with 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 in the regulation of CAMP. Our results show for the first time that PU.1, the myeloid transcription factor (which has also been identified in lung epithelial cells), co-operates with the vitamin D receptor and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α (CEBPα) to enhance the induction of CAMP in lung epithelial cells. Our findings also indicate that enhancement of 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 regulation of CAMP by histone deacetylase inhibitors involves co-operation between acetylation and chromatin remodeling through Brahma-related gene 1 (BRG1; a component of the SWItch/sucrose nonfermentable [SWI/SNF] complex). BRG1 can be an activator or repressor depending on BRG1-associated factors. Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5), a methlytransferase which interacts with BRG1, represses 1,25(OH) 2 D 3 induced CAMP in part through dimethylation of H4R3. Our findings identify key mediators involved in the regulation of the CAMP gene in lung epithelial cells and suggest new approaches for therapeutic manipulation of gene expression to increase the antibacterial capability of the airway.
Precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is associated with recurrent mutations that occur in cancer-initiating cells. There is a need to understand how driver mutations influence clonal evolution of leukemia. The E26-transformation-specific (ETS) transcription factors PU.1 and Spi-B (encoded by Spi1 and Spib) execute a critical role in B-cell development and serve as complementary tumor suppressors. Here, we used a mouse model to conditionally delete Spi1 and Spib genes in developing B cells. These mice developed B-ALL with a median time to euthanasia of 18 weeks. We performed RNA and whole-exome sequencing (WES) on leukemias isolated from Mb1-CreΔPB mice and identified single nucleotide variants (SNVs) in Jak1, Jak3, and Ikzf3 genes, resulting in amino acid sequence changes. Jak3 mutations resulted in amino acid substitutions located in the pseudo-kinase (R653H, V670A) and in the kinase (T844M) domains. Introduction of Jak3 T844M into Spi1/Spib-deficient precursor B cells was sufficient to promote proliferation in response to low IL-7 concentrations in culture, and to promote proliferation and leukemia-like disease in transplanted mice. We conclude that mutations in Janus kinases represent secondary drivers of leukemogenesis that cooperate with Spi1/Spib deletion. This mouse model represents a useful tool to study clonal evolution in B-ALL.
Inv(3q26) and t(3:3)(q21;q26) are specific to poor-prognosis myeloid malignancies, and result in marked overexpression of EVI1, a zinc-finger transcription factor and myeloid-specific oncoprotein. Despite extensive study, the mechanism by which EVI1 contributes to myeloid malignancy remains unclear. Here we describe a new mouse model that mimics the transcriptional effects of 3q26 rearrangement. We show that EVI1 overexpression causes global distortion of hematopoiesis, with suppression of erythropoiesis and lymphopoiesis, and marked premalignant expansion of myelopoiesis that eventually results in leukemic transformation. We show that myeloid skewing is dependent on DNA binding by EVI1, which upregulates Spi1, encoding master myeloid regulator PU.1. We show that EVI1 binds to the -14 kb upstream regulatory element (-14kbURE) at Spi1; knockdown of Spi1 dampens the myeloid skewing. Furthermore, deletion of the -14kbURE at Spi1 abrogates the effects of EVI1 on hematopoietic stem cells. These findings support a novel mechanism of leukemogenesis through EVI1 overexpression.
Comment in    Blood. 2018 Dec 20;132(25):2615-2616.
A wide range of sources supports that the link between diet and colorectal cancer may be due to an imbalance of the intestinal microflora. In this case, it seems that the probiotics may have a possible molecular mechanism via microRNAs (miRNAs). The present study is aimed to evaluate the effects of Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium bifidum probiotics on the expression of miRNAs 135b, 26b, 18a, and 155 and their target genes, including APC, PTEN, KRAS, and PU.1 in mouse azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colon cancer. Thirty-eight male BALB/c mice were randomly divided into four groups: the control, AOM, Lactobacillus acidophilus, and Bifidobacterium bifidum to deliberate the effects of the probiotics on the miRNAs and their target genes. Except for the control group, the rest groups were weekly given AOM (15 mg/kg, s.c) in three consecutive weeks to induce mouse colon cancer. The animals were given 1.5 g powders of L. acidophilus (1 × 109 cfu/g) and B. bifidum (1 × 109 cfu/g) in 30 cc drinking water in the related groups for 5 months. At the end of the study, the animals were sacrificed and their blood and colon samples were removed for the molecular analyses. The results showed that the expression of the miR-135b, miR-155, and KRAS was increased in the AOM group compared to the control group in both the plasma and the colon tissue samples, and the consumption of the probiotics decreased their expression. Moreover, the miR-26b, miR-18a, APC, PU.1, and PTEN expressions were decreased in the AOM group compared to the control group and the consumption of the probiotics increased their expressions. It seems that Lactobacillus acidophilus and Bifidobacterium bifidum though increasing the expression of the tumor suppressor miRNAs and their target genes and decreasing the oncogenes can improve colon cancer treatment.
V-type immunoglobulin domain-containing suppressor of T-cell activation (VISTA) is a negative checkpoint regulator (NCR) involved in inhibition of T cell-mediated immunity. Expression changes of other NCRs (PD-1, PD-L1/L2, CTLA-4) during inflammation of the central nervous system (CNS) were previously demonstrated, but VISTA expression in the CNS has not yet been explored. Here, we report that in the human and mouse CNS, VISTA is most abundantly expressed by microglia, and to lower levels by endothelial cells. Upon TLR stimulation, VISTA expression was reduced in primary neonatal mouse and adult rhesus macaque microglia in vitro. In mice, microglial VISTA expression was reduced after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection, during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), and in the accelerated aging Ercc1 Δ/- mouse model. After LPS injection, decreased VISTA expression in mouse microglia was accompanied by decreased acetylation of lysine residue 27 in histone 3 in both its promoter and enhancer region. ATAC-sequencing indicated a potential regulation of VISTA expression by Pu.1 and Mafb, two transcription factors crucial for microglia function. Finally, our data suggested that VISTA expression was decreased in microglia in multiple sclerosis lesion tissue, whereas it was increased in Alzheimer's disease patients. This study is the first to demonstrate that in the CNS, VISTA is expressed by microglia, and that VISTA is differentially expressed in CNS pathologies.
Author information:(1)Department of Biochemistry, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine.(2)Department of Hematology and Rheumatology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine.
Comment in    Blood. 2019 Feb 21;133(8):771-773.
Interleukin 1β is a pro-inflammatory cytokine important for both normal immune responses and chronic inflammatory diseases. The regulation of the 31 kDa proIL-1β precursor coded by the IL1B gene has been extensively studied in myeloid cells, but not in lymphoid-derived CD4 T cells. Surprisingly, we found that some CD4 T cell subsets express higher levels of proIL-1β than unstimulated monocytes, despite relatively low IL1B mRNA levels. We observed a significant increase in IL1B transcription and translation in CD4 T cells upon ex vivo CD3/CD28 activation, and a similar elevation in the CCR5+ effector memory population compared to CCR5- T cells in vivo. The rapid and vigorous increase in IL1B gene transcription for stimulated monocytes has previously been associated with the presence of Spi-1/PU.1 (Spi1), a myeloid-lineage transcription factor, pre-bound to the promoter. In the case of CD4 T cells, this increase occurred despite the lack of detectable Spi1 at the IL1B promoter. Additionally, we found altered epigenetic regulation of the IL1B locus in CD3/CD28-activated CD4 T cells. Unlike monocytes, activated CD4 T cells possess bivalent H3K4me3+/H3K27me3+ nucleosome marks at the IL1B promoter, reflecting low transcriptional activity. These results support a model in which the IL1B gene in CD4 T cells is transcribed from a low-activity bivalent promoter independent of Spi1. Accumulated cytoplasmic proIL-1β may ultimately be cleaved to mature 17 kDa bioactive IL-1β, regulating T cell polarization and pathogenic chronic inflammation.
Hydration of interfaces is a major determinant of target specificity in protein/DNA interactions. Interfacial hydration is a highly variable feature in DNA recognition by ETS transcription factors and functionally relates to cellular responses to osmotic stress. To understand how hydration is mediated in the conserved ETS/DNA binding interface, secondary structures comprising the DNA contact surface of the strongly hydrated ETS member PU.1 were substituted, one at a time, with corresponding elements from its sparsely hydrated relative Ets-1. The resultant PU.1/Ets-1 chimeras exhibited variably reduced sensitivity to osmotic pressure, indicative of a distributed pattern of interfacial hydration in wildt-ype PU.1. With the exception of the recognition helix H3, the chimeras retained substantially high affinities. Ets-1 residues could therefore offset the loss of favorable hydration contributions in PU.1 via low-water interactions, but at the cost of decreased selectivity at base positions flanking the 5'-GGA-3' core consensus. Substitutions within H3 alone, which contacts the core consensus, impaired binding affinity and PU.1 transactivation in accordance with the evolutionary separation of the chimeric residues involved. The combined biophysical, bioinformatics and functional data therefore supports hydration as an evolved specificity determinant that endows PU.1 with more stringent sequence selection over its ancestral relative Ets-1.
The consequences of immune dysfunction in B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) likely relate to the incidence of serious recurrent infections and second malignancies that plague CLL patients. The well-described immune abnormalities are not able to consistently explain these complications. Here, we report bone marrow (BM) hematopoietic dysfunction in early and late stage untreated CLL patients. Numbers of CD34+ BM hematopoietic progenitors responsive in standard colony-forming unit (CFU) assays, including CFU-GM/GEMM and CFU-E, were significantly reduced. Flow cytometry revealed corresponding reductions in frequencies of all hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) subsets assessed in CLL patient marrow. Consistent with the reduction in HSPCs, BM resident monocytes and natural killer cells were reduced, a deficiency recapitulated in blood. Finally, we report increases in protein levels of the transcriptional regulators HIF-1α, GATA-1, PU.1, and GATA-2 in CLL patient BM, providing molecular insight into the basis of HSPC dysfunction. Importantly, PU.1 and GATA-2 were rapidly increased when healthy HSPCs were exposed in vitro to TNFα, a cytokine constitutively produced by CLL B cells. Together, these findings reveal BM hematopoietic dysfunction in untreated CLL patients that provides new insight into the etiology of the complex immunodeficiency state in CLL.
To date there has not been a study directly comparing relative Igκ rearrangement frequencies obtained from genomic DNA (gDNA) and cDNA and since each approach has potential biases, this is an important issue to clarify. Here we used deep sequencing to compare the unbiased gDNA and RNA Igκ repertoire from the same pre-B cell pool. We find that ~20% of Vκ genes have rearrangement frequencies ≥2-fold up or down in RNA vs. DNA libraries, including many members of the Vκ3, Vκ4, and Vκ6 families. Regression analysis indicates Ikaros and E2A binding are associated with strong promoters. Within the pre-B cell repertoire, we observed that individual Vκ genes rearranged at very different frequencies, and also displayed very different Jκ usage. Regression analysis revealed that the greatly unequal Vκ gene rearrangement frequencies are best predicted by epigenetic marks of enhancers. In particular, the levels of newly arising H3K4me1 peaks associated with many Vκ genes in pre-B cells are most predictive of rearrangement levels. Since H3K4me1 is associated with long range chromatin interactions which are created during locus contraction, our data provides mechanistic insight into unequal rearrangement levels. Comparison of Igκ rearrangements occurring in pro-B cells and pre-B cells from the same mice reveal a pro-B cell bias toward usage of Jκ-distal Vκ genes, particularly Vκ10-96 and Vκ1-135. Regression analysis indicates that PU.1 binding is the highest predictor of Vκ gene rearrangement frequency in pro-B cells. Lastly, the repertoires of iEκ-/- pre-B cells reveal that iEκ actively influences Vκ gene usage, particularly Vκ3 family genes, overlapping with a zone of iEκ-regulated germline transcription. These represent new roles for iEκ in addition to its critical function in promoting overall Igκ rearrangement. Together, this study provides insight into many aspects of Igκ repertoire formation.
Microglia are known to regulate several aspects of the development of the central nervous system. When microglia colonize the spinal cord, from E11.5 in the mouse embryo, they interact with growing central axons of dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons (SNs), which suggests that they may have some functions in SN development. To address this issue, we analyzed the effects of embryonic macrophage ablation on the early development of SNs using mouse embryo lacking embryonic macrophages (PU.1 knock-out mice) and immune cell ablation. We discovered that, in addition to microglia, embryonic macrophages contact tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) C+ SN, TrkB+ SN, and TrkA+ SN peripheral neurites from E11.5. Deprivation of immune cells resulted in an initial reduction of TrkC+ SN and TrkB+ SN populations at E11.5 that was unlikely to be related to an alteration in their developmental cell death (DCD), followed by a transitory increase in their number at E12.5. It also resulted in a reduction of TrkA+ SN number during the developmental period analyzed (E11.5-E15.5), although we did not observe any change in their DCD. Proliferation of cells negative for brain fatty acid-binding protein (BFABP- ), which likely correspond to neuronal progenitors, was increased at E11.5, while their proliferation was decreased at E12.5, which could partly explain the alterations of SN subtype production observed from E11.5. In addition, we observed alterations in the proliferation of glial cell progenitors (BFABP+ cells) in the absence of embryonic macrophages. Our data indicate that embryonic macrophages and microglia ablation alter the development of SNs.
B cells undergo epigenetic remodeling as they differentiate into Ab-secreting cells (ASC). LSD1 is a histone demethylase known to decommission active enhancers and cooperate with the ASC master regulatory transcription factor Blimp-1. The contribution of LSD1 to ASC formation is poorly understood. In this study, we show that LSD1 is necessary for proliferation and differentiation of mouse naive B cells (nB) into plasmablasts (PB). Following LPS inoculation, LSD1-deficient hosts exhibited a 2-fold reduction of splenic PB and serum IgM. LSD1-deficient PB exhibited derepression and superinduction of genes involved in immune system processes; a subset of these being direct Blimp-1 target-repressed genes. Cell cycle genes were globally downregulated without LSD1, which corresponded to a decrease in the proliferative capacity of LSD1-deficient activated B cells. PB lacking LSD1 displayed increased histone H3 lysine 4 monomethylation and chromatin accessibility at nB active enhancers and the binding sites of transcription factors Blimp-1, PU.1, and IRF4 that mapped to LSD1-repressed genes. Together, these data show that LSD1 is required for normal in vivo PB formation, distinguish LSD1 as a transcriptional rheostat and epigenetic modifier of B cell differentiation, and identify LSD1 as a factor responsible for decommissioning nB active enhancers.
Neuroinflammation underlies many neuro-degenerative diseases. In this paper, we report the identification of a new pterocarpan-type anti-inflammatory compound named sophotokin isolated from Sophora tonkinensis. S. tonkinensis has been used traditionally for treatment of conditions related to inflammation. Our initial screening showed that sophotokin dose-dependently inhibits lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated production of NO, TNF-α, PGE2, and IL-1β in microglial cells. This antineuroinflammatory effect was associated with sophotokin's blockade of LPS-induced production of the inflammatory mediators iNOS and COX-2. Western blot and qPCR analysis demonstrated that sophotokin inhibits both the p38-MAPK and NF-κB signal pathways. Further studies revealed that sophotokin also suppresses the expression of cluster differentiation 14 (CD14) in the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signaling pathway. Following down-regulation of MyD88 and TRAF6, sophotokin inhibits the activation of the NF-κB and MAPK signal pathways in LPS-induced BV-2 cells. In silico studies suggested that sophotokin could interact with PU.1-DNA complex through hydrogen binding at sites 1 and 2 of the complex, blocking the DNA binding. This suggests that PU.1 may be a potential target of sophotokin. Taken together, these results suggest that sophotokin may have therapeutic potential for diseases related to neuroinflammation. The mechanism of antineuroinflammatory effects involves inhibition of the TLR4 signal pathway at the sites of NF-κB and MAPK with PU.1 as a likely upstream target.
PU.1 is a transcription factor which is expressed in myeloid cells. Herein, we investigated the expression of PU.1 and its potentially targeting miRNAs in the central nervous system (CNS) of mice with experimental autoimmune encephalitis (EAE) and in cultured primary macrophages. PU.1 levels where highly induced in EAE spinal cords and in activated macrophages; this was associated with a significant reduction in miR-150-5p levels at chronic phase of disease and in activated cells. Luciferase assays confirmed the PU.1-miR-150-5p interaction. Overexpression of miR-150-5p in macrophages decreased the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and shifted the polarization of macrophages away from the M1-like phenotype.
SPI1 (also known as PU.1) is a dominant but transient regulator in early T-cell precursors and a potent transcriptional controller of developmentally important pro-T-cell genes. Before T-lineage commitment, open chromatin is frequently occupied by PU.1, and many PU.1 sites lose accessibility when PU.1 is later down-regulated. Pioneering activity of PU.1 was tested in this developmentally dynamic context by quantitating the relationships between PU.1 occupancy and site quality and accessibility as PU.1 levels naturally declined in pro-T-cell development and by using stage-specific gain- and loss-of-function perturbations to relate binding to effects on target genes. PU.1 could bind closed genomic sites, but rapidly opened many of them, despite the absence of its frequent collaborator, CEBPA. RUNX motifs and RUNX1 binding were often linked to PU.1 at open sites, but highly expressed PU.1 could bind its sites without RUNX1. The dynamic properties of PU.1 engagements implied that PU.1 binding affinity and concentration determine its occupancy choices, but with quantitative trade-offs for occupancy between site sequence quality and stage-dependent site accessibility in chromatin. At nonpromoter sites, PU.1 binding criteria were more stringent than at promoters, and PU.1 was also much more effective as a transcriptional regulator at nonpromoter sites where local chromatin accessibility depended on the presence of PU.1. Notably, closed chromatin presented a qualitative barrier to occupancy by the PU.1 DNA-binding domain alone. Thus, effective pioneering at closed chromatin sites also depends on requirements beyond site recognition, served by non-DNA-binding domains of PU.1.
Macrophages have a defensive function against bacteria through phagocytosis and the secretion of cytokines. Histone modifications play an essential role in macrophage functions. Here, we report that Cxxc finger protein 1 (CFP1), a key component of the SETD1 histone methyltransferase complex, promoted the phagocytic and bactericidal activity of GM-CSF-derived macrophages. CFP1-deficient mice were more susceptible to bacterial infection due to the decreased expression of Csf2rα, a subunit of the GM-CSF receptor essential for inflammation and alveolar macrophage development, through the loss of H3K4 modifications in the promoter of the Csf2rα gene. In addition, the lung tissues of CFP1-deficient mice exhibited spontaneous inflammatory symptoms, including both the infiltration of inflammatory cells and the accumulation of surfactant phospholipids and proteins. Furthermore, we showed that Csf2rα and PU.1 can partially rescue the defects in phagocytosis and in the intracellular killing of bacteria. Collectively, our data highlight the importance of CFP1 in the phagocytic and bactericidal activity of macrophages.
BACKGROUND: Microglia play critical roles in the brain during homeostasis and pathological conditions. Understanding the molecular events underpinning microglial functions and activation states will further enable us to target these cells for the treatment of neurological disorders. The transcription factor PU.1 is critical in the development of myeloid cells and a major regulator of microglial gene expression. In the brain, PU.1 is specifically expressed in microglia and recent evidence from genome-wide association studies suggests that reductions in PU.1 contribute to a delayed onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD), possibly through limiting neuroinflammatory responses.METHODS: To investigate how PU.1 contributes to immune activation in human microglia, microarray analysis was performed on primary human mixed glial cultures subjected to siRNA-mediated knockdown of PU.1. Microarray hits were confirmed by qRT-PCR and immunocytochemistry in both mixed glial cultures and isolated microglia following PU.1 knockdown. To identify attenuators of PU.1 expression in microglia, high throughput drug screening was undertaken using a compound library containing FDA-approved drugs. NanoString and immunohistochemistry was utilised to investigate the expression of PU.1 itself and PU.1-regulated mediators in primary human brain tissue derived from neurologically normal and clinically and pathologically confirmed cases of AD.RESULTS: Bioinformatic analysis of gene expression upon PU.1 silencing in mixed glial cultures revealed a network of modified AD-associated microglial genes involved in the innate and adaptive immune systems, particularly those involved in antigen presentation and phagocytosis. These gene changes were confirmed using isolated microglial cultures. Utilising high throughput screening of FDA-approved compounds in mixed glial cultures we identified the histone deacetylase inhibitor vorinostat as an effective attenuator of PU.1 expression in human microglia. Further characterisation of vorinostat in isolated microglial cultures revealed gene and protein changes partially recapitulating those seen following siRNA-mediated PU.1 knockdown. Lastly, we demonstrate that several of these PU.1-regulated genes are expressed by microglia in the human AD brain in situ.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these results suggest that attenuating PU.1 may be a valid therapeutic approach to limit microglial-mediated inflammatory responses in AD and demonstrate utility of vorinostat for this purpose.
Accumulating evidence indicates that the Notch signaling pathway has crucial roles in the control of fate decision and differentiation in numerous cell types. However, the role of Notch signaling in regulating proliferation and differentiation of myeloid progenitor cells remains controversial. To elucidate this issue, we modulated Notch activity through transducing a constitutively activated form of Notch1 and/or a dominant-negative form of MAML1 (DNMAML1) into myeloid progenitor 32D cells and assessed their effects on cell proliferation and differentiation. We found that Notch1 activation enhances proliferation and delays granulocytic differentiation of 32D cells. The enhanced proliferation due to activated Notch1 signaling was associated with upregulation of c-Myc, followed by decreased expression of p21 and p27, and increased cdc2 kinase activity, through a mechanism that was not blocked by DNMAML1. Conversely, Notch1 activation significantly delayed granulocytic differentiation and maintained a part of myeloid progenitor cells in an immature stage, and this Notch1-mediated effect was dependent on MAML. The Notch1-induced effects on mye myeloid cell proliferation and differentiation were likely mediated by induction of c-Myc and repression of PU.1, respectively. Thus, Notch1 signaling plays an important part in modulating proliferation and differentiation in MAML-independent and -dependent manners and promoting expansion of myeloid progenitors.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatrics, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo.
Author information:(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School.(2)Exploratory Oncology Research & Clinical Trial Center, National Cancer Center.(3)Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Harvard Medical School.(4)Department of Hematology, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine.
The fusion oncoprotein BCR-ABL1 exhibits aberrant tyrosine kinase activity and it has been proposed that it deregulates signaling networks involving both transcription factors and non-coding microRNAs that result in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Previously, microRNA expression profiling showed deregulated expression of miR-150 and miR-155 in CML. In this study, we placed these findings into the broader context of the MYC/miR-150/MYB/miR-155/PU.1 oncogenic network. We propose that up-regulated MYC and miR-155 in CD34+ leukemic stem and progenitor cells, in concert with BCR-ABL1, impair the molecular mechanisms of myeloid differentiation associated with low miR-150 and PU.1 levels. We revealed that MYC directly occupied the -11.7 kb and -0.35 kb regulatory regions in the MIR150 gene. MYC occupancy was markedly increased through BCR-ABL1 activity, causing inhibition of MIR150 gene expression in CML CD34+ and CD34- cells. Furthermore, we found an association between reduced miR-150 levels in CML blast cells and their resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Although TKIs successfully disrupted BCR-ABL1 kinase activity in proliferating CML cells, this treatment did not efficiently target quiescent leukemic stem cells. The study presents new evidence regarding the MYC/miR-150/MYB/miR-155/PU.1 leukemic network established by aberrant BCR-ABL1 activity. The key connecting nodes of this network may serve as potential druggable targets to overcome resistance of CML stem and progenitor cells.
The vitamin D-modulated transcriptome of highly responsive human cells, such as THP-1 monocytes, comprises more than 500 genes, half of which are primary targets. Recently, we proposed a chromatin model of vitamin D signaling demonstrating that nearly all vitamin D target genes are located within vitamin D-modulated topologically associated domains (TADs). This model is based on genome-wide binding patterns of the vitamin D receptor (VDR), the pioneer transcription factor PU.1, the chromatin organizer CTCF and histone markers of active promoter regions (H3K4me3) and active chromatin (H3K27ac). In addition, time-dependent data on accessible chromatin and mRNA expression are implemented. For the interrogation and in deep inspection of these high-dimensional datasets unsupervised and supervised machine learning algorithms were applied. Unsupervised methods, such as the vector quantization tool K-means and the dimensionality reduction algorithm self-organizing map, generated descriptions of how attributes, such as VDR binding and chromatin accessibility, affect each other as a function of time and/or co-localization within the same genomic region. Supervised algorithms, such as random forests, allowed the data to be classified into pre-existing categories like persistent (i.e. constant) and time-dependent (i.e. transient) VDR binding sites. The relative amounts of these VDR categories in TADs showed to be the main discriminator for sorting the latter into five classes carrying vitamin D target genes involved in distinct biological processes. In conclusion, via the application of machine learning methods we identified the spatio-temporal VDR binding pattern in TADs as the most critical attribute for specific regulation of vitamin D target genes and the segregation of vitamin D's physiologic function.
Nucleophosmin (NPM1) is among the most frequently mutated genes in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). It is not known, however, how the resulting oncoprotein mutant NPM1 is leukemogenic. To reveal the cellular machinery in which NPM1 participates in myeloid cells, we analyzed the endogenous NPM1 protein interactome by mass spectrometry and discovered abundant amounts of the master transcription factor driver of monocyte lineage differentiation PU.1 (also known as SPI1). Mutant NPM1, which aberrantly accumulates in cytoplasm, dislocated PU.1 into cytoplasm with it. CEBPA and RUNX1, the master transcription factors that collaborate with PU.1 to activate granulomonocytic lineage fates, remained nuclear; but without PU.1, their coregulator interactions were toggled from coactivators to corepressors, repressing instead of activating more than 500 granulocyte and monocyte terminal differentiation genes. An inhibitor of nuclear export, selinexor, by locking mutant NPM1/PU.1 in the nucleus, activated terminal monocytic fates. Direct depletion of the corepressor DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) from the CEBPA/RUNX1 protein interactome using the clinical drug decitabine activated terminal granulocytic fates. Together, these noncytotoxic treatments extended survival by more than 160 days versus vehicle in a patient-derived xenotransplant model of NPM1/FLT3-mutated AML. In sum, mutant NPM1 represses monocyte and granulocyte terminal differentiation by disrupting PU.1/CEBPA/RUNX1 collaboration, a transforming action that can be reversed by pharmacodynamically directed dosing of clinical small molecules.
Molecular regulation of cell fate decisions underlies health and disease. To identify molecules that are active or regulated during a decision, and not before or after, the decision time point is crucial. However, cell fate markers are usually delayed and the time of decision therefore unknown. Fortunately, dividing cells induce temporal correlations in their progeny, which allow for retrospective inference of the decision time point. We present a computational method to infer decision time points from correlated marker signals in genealogies and apply it to differentiating hematopoietic stem cells. We find that myeloid lineage decisions happen generations before lineage marker onsets. Inferred decision time points are in agreement with data from colony assay experiments. The levels of the myeloid transcription factor PU.1 do not change during, but long after the predicted lineage decision event, indicating  that the PU.1/GATA1 toggle switch paradigm cannot explain the initiation of early myeloid lineage choice.
Transcription factors recognize and bind to consensus sequence elements that are specific for each transcription factor, and the transcription factors then regulate downstream gene expression. In the bone marrow, transcription factors, such as C/EBPα, PU.1, and RUNX1, control essential genes to maintain the normal hematopoietic system. Dysregulation of transcription factors caused by gene mutations, chromosomal aberrations, or aberrant expression can lead to cancer, including acute myeloid leukemia. In the past, transcription factors were not considered "druggable" targets. However, a better understanding of the pathology of malignant tumors and mechanisms of transcriptional regulation has enabled us to develop novel therapeutic strategies that target transcription factors. In this review, we focus on transcription factors that play important roles in leukemogenesis and current efforts and prospects in the development of transcriptional therapy. We believe that such a therapeutic approach will benefit patients with cancers that involve acute myeloid leukemia in the near future.
The most widely used type II pyrethroid is β-cypermethrin (β-CYP), and 3-phenoxybenzoic acid (3-PBA) is one of its primary metabolites. Although CYP has been shown to pose toxic effects in some immune cells, as of now the immunotoxicity of CYP on immune progenitor cells has not been well studied. In this study, we evaluated the immunotoxicity of β-CYP and 3-PBA on the human promyelocytic leukemia cell line, HL-60. Both β-CYP and 3-PBA reduced cell viability. In addition, both β-CYP and 3-PBA stimulated the intrinsic apoptotic pathway in a dose- and time-dependent manner, while only β-CYP induced cell cycle arrest in G1 stage. Moreover, exposure to β-CYP and 3-PBA at 100 μM inhibited all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-induced mRNA expressions of the granulocytic differentiation-related genes, CD11b and CSF-3R. Furthermore, exposure to β-CYP and 3-PBA resulted in a downregulation of the granulocytic differentiation promoting transcriptional factors, PU.1 and C/EBPε. Furthermore, we found that β-CYP and 3-PBA exposure led to elevated levels of cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), and that pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) blocked the toxic effects caused by β-CYP and 3-PBA. The results obtained in the present study provide evidence showing the immunotoxic effects of β-CYP and 3-PBA on promyelocytic cells as well as its possible underlying mechanism.
The transcription factor PU.1 is required for the development of mature myeloid and lymphoid cells. Due to this essential role and the importance of PU.1 in regulating several signature markers of lymphoid progenitors, its precise function in early lymphopoiesis has been difficult to define. Here, we demonstrate that PU.1 was required for efficient generation of lymphoid-primed multipotent progenitors (LMPPs) from hematopoietic stem cells and was essential for the subsequent formation of common lymphoid progenitors (CLPs). By contrast, further differentiation into the B-cell lineage was independent of PU.1. Examination of the transcriptional changes in conditional progenitors revealed that PU.1 activates lymphoid genes in LMPPs, while repressing genes normally expressed in neutrophils. These data identify PU.1 as a critical regulator of lymphoid priming and the transition between LMPPs and CLPs.
Erratum in    Immunity. 2018 Oct 16;49(4):782.
Comment on    Immunity. 2018 Jun 19;48(6):1119-1134.e7.
The dynamics of haematopoietic stem cell differentiation and the hierarchy of oligopotent stem cells in the bone marrow remain controversial. Here we dissect haematopoietic progenitor populations at single cell resolution, deriving an unbiased reference model of transcriptional states in normal and perturbed murine bone marrow. We define the signature of the naive haematopoietic stem cell and find a continuum of core progenitor states. Core cell populations mix transcription of pre-myeloid and pre-lymphoid programs, but do not mix erythroid or megakaryocyte programs with other fates. CRISP-seq perturbation analysis confirms our models and reveals that Cebpa regulates entry into all myeloid fates, while Irf8 and PU.1 deficiency block later differentiation towards monocyte or granulocyte fates. Our transcriptional map defines a reference network model for blood progenitors and their differentiation trajectories during normal and perturbed haematopoiesis.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2018 Aug;18(8):479.
The vitamin D3 metabolite 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] is the exclusive high-affinity ligand of the vitamin D receptor (VDR), a transcription factor with direct effects on gene expression. Transcriptome- and epigenome-wide data obtained in THP-1 human monocytes are the basis of the chromatin model of vitamin D signaling. The model describes, how VDR's spatio-temporal binding profile provides key insight into the pleiotropic action of vitamin D. The transcription of some 300 primary target genes is significantly modulated through the action of genomic VDR binding sites in concert with the pioneer transcription factor PU.1 and the chromatin organizer CTCF. In parallel, the short-term vitamin D intervention study VitDbol (NCT02063334) was designed, in order to extrapolate insight into vitamin D signaling from in vitro to in vivo. Before and 24 h after a vitamin D3 bolus chromatin and RNA were prepared from peripheral blood mononuclear cells for epigenome- and transcriptome-wide analysis. The study subjects showed a personalized response to vitamin D and could be distinguished into high, mid, and low responders. Comparable principles of vitamin D signaling were identified in vivo and in vitro concerning target gene responses as well as changes in chromatin accessibility. In conclusion, short-term vitamin D supplementation studies represent a new type of safe in vivo investigations demonstrating that vitamin D and its metabolites have direct effects on the human epigenome and modulate the response of the transcriptome in a personalized fashion.
Inflammation at a wound site is essential for preventing infection. However, misregulated inflammation leads to pathologies of the healing process, including chronic non-healing wounds and scarring. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key regulators of the inflammatory response and tissue repair, acting by translational processing of target mRNAs. In the final step of miRNA processing, Argonaute 2 (Ago2)-bound mature miRNA complexes bind to target mRNAs and inhibit their translation. A variety of wound healing-related miRNAs have been identified and their misregulation likely contributes to wound pathologies, including scarring and chronic healing. Recently, we have developed an Ago2-bound mature miRNA purification system that uses Ago2 antibody to analyze the expression of miRNAs from wound tissues by microarray and next generation sequencing. We have identified several wound inflammation-related miRNAs via Ago2-target immunoprecipitation assays and next generation sequencing of wound tissues from wild-type and PU.1 knockout mice, which exhibit no inflammatory response because of a lack of immune cell lineages. We demonstrated that miR-142, an identified inflammation-related miRNA, is essential role for neutrophilic chemotaxis via inhibition of small GTPase translation; its misregulation leads to susceptibility to infection against Staphylococcus aureus at skin wound sites. In this review, we summarize recent advances of miRNA studies in skin wound healing, introduce our miRNA purification system using an immunoprecipitation assay method, and discuss the function of miR-142 in skin wound healing.
Transcription factors PU.1 and CEBPA are required for the proper coordination of enhancer activity during granulocytic-monocytic (GM) lineage differentiation to form myeloid cells. However, precisely how these factors control the chronology of enhancer establishment during differentiation is not known. Through integrated analyses of enhancer dynamics, transcription factor binding, and proximal gene expression during successive stages of murine GM-lineage differentiation, we unravel the distinct kinetics by which PU.1 and CEBPA coordinate GM enhancer activity. We find no evidence of a pioneering function of PU.1 during late GM-lineage differentiation. Instead, we delineate a set of enhancers that gain accessibility in a CEBPA-dependent manner, suggesting a pioneering function of CEBPA. Analyses of Cebpa null bone marrow demonstrate that CEBPA controls PU.1 levels and, unexpectedly, that the loss of CEBPA results in an early differentiation block. Taken together, our data provide insights into how PU.1 and CEBPA functionally interact to drive GM-lineage differentiation.
Ras mutations are commonly observed in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). JMML and CMML transform into acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in about 10% and 50% of patients, respectively. However, how additional events cooperate with Ras to promote this transformation are largely unknown. We show that absence of the ubiquitin-specific peptidase 22 (USP22), a component of the Spt-Ada-GCN5-acetyltransferase chromatin-remodeling complex that is linked to cancer progression, unexpectedly promotes AML transformation in mice expressing oncogenic KrasG12D/+ USP22 deficiency in KrasG12D/+ mice resulted in shorter survival compared with control mice. This was due to a block in myeloid cell differentiation leading to the generation of AML. This effect was cell autonomous because mice transplanted with USP22-deficient KrasG12D/+ cells developed an aggressive disease and died rapidly. The transcriptome profile of USP22-deficient KrasG12D/+ progenitors resembled leukemic stem cells and was highly correlated with genes associated with poor prognosis in AML. We show that USP22 functions as a PU.1 deubiquitylase by positively regulating its protein stability and promoting the expression of PU.1 target genes. Reconstitution of PU.1 overexpression in USP22-deficient KrasG12D/+ progenitors rescued their differentiation. Our findings uncovered an unexpected role for USP22 in Ras-induced leukemogenesis and provide further insights into the function of USP22 in carcinogenesis.
BACKGROUND: It has been shown that severe insult to the immune system may trigger prolonged macrophage characteristics associated with excessive release of monocyte colony stimulating factor (M-CSF). However, it is unclear how persistent is the macrophage-like characteristics in circulating monocytes (MO). In this study, 20 patients who underwent non-emergent cardiopulmonary bypass had their monocytes characterized before surgery and 3 months after surgery.METHODS: We assessed the macrophage characteristics of MO using cytokine production, surface marker expression, an ability to stimulate T cells, and methylation of the promoter region of the gene encoding PU.1, a critical component to M-CSF production. MO function as well as activation and differentiation potential were longitudinally assessed.RESULTS: At 3 months after cardiopulmonary bypass, monocytes exhibited increased expression of MRP8, transforming growth factor-β/latency-associated peptide, suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 while phagocytic properties were increased. Concomitantly, we observed a decreased expression of CD86, a decreased ability to form regulatory dendritic cells, and a diminished ability to stimulate T cells. These characteristics were accompanied by a persistent increase in the secretion of M-CSF, over-activation of PU.1, and decreased methylation of the PU.1 promoter region. Serum levels of C-reactive protein and anti-cytomegalovirus IgG antibody titers were also elevated in some patients at 3 months after surgery.CONCLUSIONS: We concluded that at 3 months after cardiopulmonary bypass, monocytes continued to express a new macrophage-like milieu that was associated with the persistent activation of the PU.1/M-CSF pathway.
Erratum for    Oncotarget. 2017 Sep 6;8(44):77586-77594.
B cells provide humoral immunity by differentiating into antibody-secreting plasma cells, a process that requires cellular division and is linked to DNA hypomethylation. Conversely, little is known about how de novo deposition of DNA methylation affects B cell fate and function. Here we show that genetic deletion of the de novo DNA methyltransferases Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b (Dnmt3-deficient) in mouse B cells results in normal B cell development and maturation, but increased cell activation and expansion of the germinal center B cell and plasma cell populations upon immunization. Gene expression is mostly unaltered in naive and germinal center B cells, but dysregulated in Dnmt3-deficient plasma cells. Differences in gene expression are proximal to Dnmt3-dependent DNA methylation and chromatin changes, both of which coincide with E2A and PU.1-IRF composite-binding motifs. Thus, de novo DNA methylation limits B cell activation, represses the plasma cell chromatin state, and regulates plasma cell differentiation.
Traumatized lipomas with degenerative change may demonstrate histopathologic features that mimic atypical lipomatous tumor (ALT). Previously reported series of ALT involving the oral cavity preceded routine use of MDM2 and CDK4 immunohistochemistry. Our aim is to evaluate MDM2 and CDK4 immunohistochemical expression in adipocytic tumors arising in this site, in conjunction with the histiocytic marker PU.1, to determine whether MDM2 and CDK4 impacts classification. 17 cases originally diagnosed as ALT were retrieved and immunohistochemical studies for MDM2, CDK4 and PU.1 were performed. FISH analysis for MDM2 amplification was performed in select cases. For this study group, the male:female ratio was 9:8 and the median age was 62 (range 41-88). All 17 cases presented as well- or predominantly well-circumscribed proliferations of variably sized, mature adipocytes exhibiting uni- or multi-vacuolation with occasional scalloped nuclei and mild nuclear atypia. Variable amounts of fibrous stroma with focal myxoid change and bland spindle cells were identified in 14/17 cases. Lipoblasts or atypical hyperchromatic stromal cells were not identified in any cases. 14 of 17 cases were negative for MDM2 and CDK4 in tumor cells and 11 of these 14 showed weak nuclear positivity for MDM2 in histiocytes. 3 of 17 cases showed weak, multifocal immunohistochemical expression of MDM2 and CDK4. PU.1 highlighted histiocytes in all 17 cases. FISH analysis for MDM2 amplification was negative in all 3 cases with weak MDM2/CDK4 expression. All cases were reclassified as lipoma with degenerative changes. ALT, in all likelihood, is less common than previously thought in this anatomic location and best diagnosed with ancillary studies. MDM2 expression in histiocytes is best interpreted in conjunction with CDK4 immunohistochemistry and confirmatory FISH for MDM2 amplification.
Autophagy is an intracellular degradation system that ensures a dynamic recycling of a variety of building blocks required for self-renewal, homeostasis, and cell survival under stress. We used primary acute myeloid leukemia (AML) samples and human AML cell lines to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of autophagy and its role in AML differentiation. We found a significantly lower expression of key autophagy- (ATG-) related genes in primary AML as compared to healthy granulocytes, an increased autophagic activity during all-trans retinoic acid- (ATRA-) induced neutrophil differentiation, and an impaired AML differentiation upon inhibition of ATG3, ATG4D, and ATG5. Supporting the notion of noncanonical autophagy, we found that ATRA-induced autophagy was Beclin1-independent compared to starvation- or arsenic trioxide- (ATO-) induced autophagy. Furthermore, we identified PU.1 as positive transcriptional regulator of ATG3, ATG4D, and ATG5. Low PU.1 expression in AML may account for low ATG gene expression in this disease. Low expression of the autophagy initiator ULK1 in AML can partially be attributed to high expression of the ULK1-targeting microRNA-106a. Our data clearly suggest that granulocytic AML differentiation relies on noncanonical autophagy pathways and that restoring autophagic activity might be beneficial in differentiation therapies.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatrics, The University of Tokyo Hospital.
In this study, 4,4'-diphenylmethane diisocyanate and polytetramethylene glycol were used to prepare a prepolymer; N,N'-bis(4-hydroxybenzylidene)-2,6-diaminopyridine (BHBP) was used as a chain extender; and these elements were combined to prepare a novel polyurethane, BHBP/PU. Gel permeation chromatography revealed that the molecular weight of the BHBP/PU samples increased as the BHBP content was increased. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy demonstrated that high BHBP content facilitated strong hydrogen bonding in the samples. Differential thermogravimetry indicated that the initial decomposition temperature of BHBP/PU-3 was approximately 10 °C higher than that of BHBP/PU-1. Differential scanning calorimetry and dynamic mechanical analysis revealed that increasing the BHBP content substantially increased both the glass transition and dynamic glass transition temperatures of the BHBP/PU samples. The tensile strengths of BHBP/PU-1, BHBP/PU-2, and BHBP/PU-3 were 7.7, 10.9, and 21.6 MPa, respectively, with corresponding Young's moduli of 0.7, 1.9, and 3.3 MPa. These results demonstrated that both the tensile strength and Young's modulus of the BHBP/PU samples increased as the BHBP content was increased. Moreover, the BHBP/PU samples exhibited excellent shape recovery of >90%.
The present study aimed to determine the role of transcription factor PU.1 (PU.1) in tumor necrosis factor‑α (TNF‑α)‑induced proliferation and cytokine release of rheumatoid arthritis fibroblast‑like synoviocytes (RA‑FLS). It was determined that TNF‑α induced proliferation of RA‑FLS, whereas transfection with PU.1 3'untranslated region (UTR) inhibited this proliferation. Additionally, PU.1 3'UTR attenuated TNF‑α‑induced production of interleukin (IL)‑6 and IL‑1β, and downregulated the expression level of micro RNA (miR)‑155 in a dose‑dependent manner. Furthermore, transfection with PU.1 3'UTR significantly attenuated TNF‑α‑induced decrease in forkhead box protein O3 (FOXO3) expression level in RA‑FLS and these effects were consistent with the effects of miR‑155 inhibition. PU.1 and FOXO3 formed a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network that regulated miR‑155 activity. In this competing endogenous RNA network, PU.1 3'UTR modulated FOXO3 expression in a miRNA‑ and 3'UTR‑dependent manner. Downregulation of FOXO3 expression reversed the PU.1 3'UTR‑mediated protective effects. Therefore, the results of the present study indicate that PU.1 3'UTR attenuates TNF‑α‑induced proliferation and cytokine release of RA‑FLS by acting as a ceRNA for FOXO3 to regulate miR‑155 activity.
Myelopoiesis is a complex process driven by essential transcription factors, including C/EBPα, PU.1, RUNX1, KLF4 and IRF8. Together, these factors are critical for the control of myeloid progenitor cell expansion and lineage determination in the development of granulocytes and monocytes/macrophages. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are expressed in a cell type and lineage specific manner. There is increasing evidence that miRNAs fine-tune the expression of hematopoietic lineage-specific transcription factors and drive the lineage decisions of hematopoietic progenitor cells. In this review, we discuss recently discovered self-activating and feed-back mechanisms in which transcription factors and miRNAs interact during myeloid cell development. Furthermore, we delineate how some of these mechanisms are affected in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and how disrupted transcription factor-miRNA interplays contribute to leukemogenesis.
The transcription factor (TF) interferon regulatory factor-4 (IRF4) promotes both germinal center (GC) reactions and plasma cell (PC) differentiation by binding to alternative DNA motifs including AP-1-IRF composite elements, Ets-IRF composite elements (EICEs), and interferon sequence response elements (ISREs). Although all of these motifs mediate transcriptional activation by IRF4, it is still unknown how some of the IRF4 target genes are downregulated upon PC differentiation. Here, we revealed a molecular mechanism of IRF4-mediated gene downregulation during PC differentiation. By combining IRF4 chromatin immunoprecipitation sequence and gene expression analysis, we identified zinc finger-IRF composite elements (ZICEs) in IRF4 binding regions aligned with genes whose expression was downregulated in PCs. The zinc finger TFs Ikaros and Aiolos were identified as IRF4 binding partners in PCs, and Ikaros but not Aiolos was essential for IRF4 binding to the ZICE sequence and for PC differentiation. The Ebf1 gene, which positively controls B-cell activation and GC reactions, was identified as one of the Ikaros/IRF4 target genes. Importantly, while the ZICE embeds the ISRE motif, IRF4 bound the ZICE motif as heterodimers with Ikaros for repression of target genes, which include Ebf1 In contrast, if the zinc finger motif is juxtaposed to the EICE motif, the Ikaros/PU.1/IRF4 complex functioned to activate target gene expression. Our findings revealed a novel mode of IRF4 activity upon PC differentiation where upon forming an Ikaros/IRF4 DNA-bound complex, a subset of genes is repressed.
AIM: Epigenetic regulation plays an important role in cellular development and differentiation. A detailed map of the DNA methylation dynamics that occur during cell differentiation would contribute to decipher the molecular networks governing cell fate commitment.METHODS: Illumina MethylationEPIC BeadChip platform was used to describe the genome-wide DNA methylation changes observed throughout hematopoietic maturation by analyzing multiple myeloid and lymphoid hematopoietic cell types.RESULTS: We identified a plethora of DNA methylation changes that occur during human hematopoietic differentiation. We observed that T lymphocytes display substantial enhancement of de novo CpG hypermethylation as compared with other hematopoietic cell populations. T-cell-specific hypermethylated regions were strongly associated with open chromatin marks and enhancer elements, as well as binding sites of specific key transcription factors involved in hematopoietic differentiation, such as PU.1 and TAL1.CONCLUSION: These results provide novel insights into the role of DNA methylation at enhancer elements in T-cell development.
Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have been instrumental in understanding complex phenotypic traits. However, they have rarely been used to understand lineage-specific pathways and functions that contribute to the trait. In this study, by integrating lineage-specific enhancers from mesenchymal and myeloid compartments with bone mineral density loci, we were able to segregate osteoblast- and osteoclast (OC)-specific functions. Specifically, in OCs, a PU.1-dependent transcription factor (TF) network was revealed. Deletion of PU.1 in OCs in mice resulted in severe osteopetrosis. Functional genomic analysis indicated PU.1 and MITF orchestrated a TF network essential for OC differentiation. Several of these TFs were regulated by cooperative binding of PU.1 with BRD4 to form superenhancers. Further, PU.1 is essential for conformational changes in the superenhancer region of Nfatc1. In summary, our study demonstrates that combining GWASs with genome-wide binding studies and model organisms could decipher lineage-specific pathways contributing to complex disease states.
Comment in    Cell. 2018 May 3;173(4):817-819.    Cell Stress. 2018 May 22;2(6):144-146.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2018 Jun 6;9(1):2286.
It has been recently demonstrated that high pre-treatment levels of miR-29b positively correlated with the response of patients with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) to hypomethylating agents. Upmodulation of miR-29b by restoring its transcriptional machinery appears indeed a tool to improve therapeutic response in AML. In cells from acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL), miR-29b is regulated by PU.1, in turn upmodulated by agonists currently used to treat APL. We explored here the ability of PU.1 to also regulate miR-29b in non-APL cells, in order to identify agonists that, upmodulating PU.1 may be beneficial in hypomethylating agents-based therapies. We found that PU.1 may regulate miR-29b in the non-APL Kasumi-1 cells, showing the t(8;21) chromosomal rearrangement, which is prevalent in AML and correlated with a relatively low survival. We demonstrated that the PU.1-mediated contribution of the 2 miR-29b precursors is cell-related and almost completely dependent on adequate levels of Vav1. Nuclear PU.1/Vav1 association accompanies the transcription of miR-29b but, at variance with the APL-derived NB4 cells, in which the protein is required for the association of PU.1 with both miRNA promoters, Vav1 is part of molecular complexes to the PU.1 consensus site in Kasumi-1. Our results add new information on the transcriptional machinery that regulates miR-29b expression in AML-derived cells and may help in identifying drugs useful in upmodulation of this miRNA in pre-treatment of patients with non-APL leukaemia who can take advantage from hypomethylating agent-based therapies.
Resistance to the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) remains a challenge for curing the disease in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients as leukemia cells may survive through BCR-ABL kinase activity-independent signal pathways. To gain insight into BCR-ABL kinase activity-independent mechanisms, we performed an initial bioinformatics screen and followed by a quantitative PCR screen of genes that were elevated in CML samples. A total of 33 candidate genes were identified to be highly expressed in TKIs resistant patients. Among those genes, 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-biphosphatase 3 (PFKFB3), controlling the limiting step of glycolysis, was found to be strongly associated with TKIs resistance. PFKFB3 knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of its kinase activity markedly enhanced the sensitivity of CML cells to TKIs. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of PFKFB3 inhibited CML cells growth and significantly prolonged the survival of both allograft and xenograft CML mice. ChIP-seq data analysis combined with subsequent knockdown experiment showed that the Ets transcription factor PU.1 regulated the elevated expression of PFKFB3 in TKIs-resistant CML cells. Therefore, our results showed that targeting PFKFB3 sensitizes CML cells to TKIs and PFKFB3 may be a potential BCR-ABL kinase activity-independent mechanism in CML.
We have previously shown that immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) compounds induce a shift into immature myeloid precursors with a maturational arrest and subsequent neutropenia. The mechanism of action is unknown. Here we found that IMiD compounds cause selective ubiquitination and degradation of the transcription factor IKZF1 in CD34+ cells by the Cereblon (CRBN) E3 ubiquitin ligase. Loss of IKZF1 is associated with a decrease of the IKZF1-dependent transcription factor PU.1, critical for the development and maturation of neutrophils. Using a thalidomide analog bead pull-down assay, we showed that IMiD compounds directly bind CRBN in CD34+ cells. Knockdown of CRBN in CD34+ cells resulted in resistance to POM-induced IKZF1 downregulation and reversed the POM-induced lineage shift in colony-formation assays, suggesting that the POM-induced degradation of IKZF1 in CD34+ cells requires CRBN. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that IKZF1 binds to the promoter region of PU.1, suggesting that PU.1 is a direct downstream target of IKZF1 in CD34+ cells. POM failed to induce IKZF1 degradation in IKZF1-Q146H-OE CD34+ cells, indicating that CRBN binding to IKZF1 and subsequent IKZF1 ubiquitination is critical in this process. Using the NOD/SCID/γ-c KO mouse model, we confirmed the induction of myeloid progenitor cells by IMiD compounds at the expense of common lymphoid progenitors. These results demonstrate a novel mechanism of action of IMiD compounds in hematopoietic progenitor cells, leading to selective degradation of transcription factors critical for myeloid maturation, and explain the occurrence of neutropenia associated with treatment by IMiD compounds.
Sorafenib is currently the only systemic agent approved for treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, intrinsic and acquired resistance to sorafenib remains a great challenge with respect to improving the prognoses of patients with HCC. The cyto-protective functions of autophagy have been suggested as a potential mechanism by which chemoresistance or targeted drug resistance occurs in tumour cells. In the present study, miR-142-3p was identified as a novel autophagy-regulating microRNA (miRNA) that plays a vital role in sorafenib resistance in HCC cells. Gain- and loss-of-function assays revealed that ectopic miR-142-3p upregulation sensitized HCC cells to sorafenib by reducing sorafenib-induced autophagy, enhancing sorafenib-induced apoptosis and inhibiting cell growth, whereas miR-142-3p inhibition exerted contrasting effects. Bioinformatics analysis and luciferase reporter and rescue assays showed that autophagy-related 5 (ATG5) and autophagy-related 16-like 1 (ATG16L1) are potential targets through which miR-142-3p regulates autophagy inhibition. Furthermore, we verified that PU.1 regulated the expression of miR-142-3p in conjunction with our cellular experiments and the related results in the literature. Our findings show that targeting the PU.1-miR-142-3p-ATG5/ATG16L1 axis may be a useful therapeutic strategy for preventing cyto-protective autophagy to overcome sorafenib resistance.
Glioma is a severe disease of the central nervous system. Although previous studies have identified the important role of the immune response in association with tumor intervention, it is still unknown whether PU.1, a transcription factor known for its role in myeloid differentiation and immune responses, is involved in the progression of glioma. In the present study, we found a significant increase in SPI1, the gene that encodes PU.1, in samples from patients with glioma. Through genotype-phenotype association analysis several candidate factors that may mediate the role of PU.1 in glioma were identified. To further validate the association between PU.1 and glioma we found that the expression of BTK, a potential target of PU.1, was also upregulated in patients with glioma. We also demonstrated that various biological pathways could be involved in PU.1-associated glioma by analyzing these potential targets in the Reactome database. These results provide evidence that PU.1 could serve a role in the progress of glioma through its transcriptional targets in multiple signaling pathways. Therefore, in addition to its role in hematopoietic linage development and leukemia, PU.1 appears to be involved in the regulation of glioma and potentially in other malignant cancers.
Epigenetic regulators are recurrently mutated and aberrantly expressed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Targeted therapies designed to inhibit these chromatin-modifying enzymes, such as the histone demethylase lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) and the histone methyltransferase DOT1L, have been developed as novel treatment modalities for these often refractory diseases. A common feature of many of these targeted agents is their ability to induce myeloid differentiation, suggesting that multiple paths toward a myeloid gene expression program can be engaged to relieve the differentiation blockade that is uniformly seen in AML. We performed a comparative assessment of chromatin dynamics during the treatment of mixed lineage leukemia (MLL)-AF9-driven murine leukemias and MLL-rearranged patient-derived xenografts using 2 distinct but effective differentiation-inducing targeted epigenetic therapies, the LSD1 inhibitor GSK-LSD1 and the DOT1L inhibitor EPZ4777. Intriguingly, GSK-LSD1 treatment caused global gains in chromatin accessibility, whereas treatment with EPZ4777 caused global losses in accessibility. We captured PU.1 and C/EBPα motif signatures at LSD1 inhibitor-induced dynamic sites and chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing revealed co-occupancy of these myeloid transcription factors at these sites. Functionally, we confirmed that diminished expression of PU.1 or genetic deletion of C/EBPα in MLL-AF9 cells generates resistance of these leukemias to LSD1 inhibition. These findings reveal that pharmacologic inhibition of LSD1 represents a unique path to overcome the differentiation block in AML for therapeutic benefit.
The PU.1 transcription factor plays a critical role in the regulation of T cell development, so a report that it is dispensable for fetal thymopoiesis is puzzling. To understand this paradox, we examined the requirement for PU.1, encoded by Spi1, during fetal, neonatal, and adult thymopoiesis in a PU.1 hypomorphic mouse generated by deletion of the Spi1 14-kb upstream regulatory element and by analysis of patterns of gene expression in fetal and adult T cell progenitors. Our data demonstrate that the initiation of thymopoiesis during early gestation is less dependent on PU.1 compared with T cell differentiation in adults and that fetal T cell progenitors express lower levels of Spi1 compared with their adult counterparts. We also show that expression of the core network of T lineage transcription factors regulated by PU.1 differs in fetal and adult T cell progenitors. In particular, PU.1-regulated genes that promote T cell differentiation are differentially expressed in fetal versus adult early T lineage progenitors. These results indicate that the transcriptional differences between the fetal and adult T cell developmental programs are driven in part by differential levels of PU.1 expression and that this likely underlies the differences in the properties of fetal and adult T cell progenitors.
AIMS: To define the possible effect of diabetic conditions on megakaryocytes, the long-know precursors of platelets and lately characterized modulator of hematopoietic stem quiescence-activation transition.METHODS: Megakaryoblastic MEG-01 cell culture and TPO/SCF/IL-3-induced differentiation of human umbilical blood mononuclear cells toward megakaryocytes were used to test effects of glycated bovine serum albumin (BSA-AGEs). The ob/ob mice and streptozotocin-treated mice were used as models of hyperglycemia. MTT was used to measure cell proliferation, FACS for surface marker and cell cycle, and RT-qPCR for the expression of interested genes. Megakaryocytes at different stages in marrow smear were checked under microscope.RESULTS: When added in MEG-01 cultures at 200 μg/ml, BSA-AGEs increased proliferation of cells and enhanced mRNA expression of RAGE, VEGFα and PF4 in the cells. None of cell cycle distribution, PMA-induced platelet-like particles production, expression of GATA1/NF-E2/PU-1/IL-6/OPG/PDGF in MEG-01 cells nor TPO/SCF/IL-3 induced umbilical cord blood cells differentiation into megakaryocyte was affected by BSA-AGEs. In the ob/ob diabetic mice, MKs percentages in marrow cells and platelets in peripheral blood were significantly increased compared with control mice. In streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice, however, MKs percentage in marrow cells was decreased though peripheral platelet counts were not altered. Gene expression assay showed that the change in MKs in these two diabetic conditions might be explained by the alteration of GATA1 and NF-E2 expression, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Diabetic condition in animals might exert its influence on hematopoiesis via megakaryocytes-the newly identified modulator of hematopoietic stem cells in bone marrow.
OBJECTIVES: Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is a zoonotic disease caused by Echinococcus granulosus (Eg) infection. Th9 cells are reported to be involved in the immune responses in CE patients. This study aims to investigate the role of TGF-β/Smad pathway in the regulation of Th9 cells in CE patients.METHODS: Using Western blot analysis, flow cytometry, qPCR, immunohistochemistry, ELISA and MTT assay, we measured the expression levels of TGF-β/Smad, PU.1, IRF-4, and IL-9 in CE patients.RESULTS: The levels of TGF-β, p-Samd3, PU.1 and IL-9 were elevated in the liver of CE patients. IL-9 and IL-9R expressions were also elevated in the infected liver tissue, and IL-9 level was positively correlated with the liver inflammation. The levels of IL-9, IL-4, TGF-β and IL-10 in the supernatant were also significantly increased after stimulating hepatic lymphocytes of CE patients with Eg antigen B. After blocking the TGF-β pathway signaling in vitro, PU.1 and IL-9 were obviously reduced.CONCLUSIONS: IL-9 may aggravate the inflammatory response in the liver of CE patients. The TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway is activated, and the signaling pathway may promote the differentiation of Th9 cells and IL-9 expression in active CE patients.
PU.1 is a hematopoietic cell-specific transcription factor. In the current study, we investigated the role of PU.1 in the gene expression and the function of mouse mast cells (MCs) in vitro and in vivo. When PU.1 siRNA was introduced into bone marrow-derived MCs (BMMCs), IgE-mediated activation was reduced, and the Syk and FcεRIβ mRNA levels were significantly decreased. As the regulatory mechanism of the Syk gene is largely unknown, we performed promoter analysis and found that PU.1 transactivated the Syk promoter through direct binding to a cis-element in the 5'-untranslated region. The involvement of PU.1 in the Syk promoter was also observed in mouse dendritic cells and human MCs, suggesting that the relationship between PU.1 and Syk is common in mammals and in hematopoietic lineages. When antigen was administrated intravenously after the transfusion of siRNA-transfected BMMCs in the mouse footpad, the footpad thickening was significantly suppressed by PU.1 knockdown. Finally, administration of the immunomodulator pomalidomide suppressed passive systemic anaphylaxis of mice. Taken together, these results indicate that PU.1 knockdown might be an efficacious strategy for the prevention of MC-mediated allergic diseases.
Regulatory variants are often context specific, modulating gene expression in a subset of possible cellular states. Although these genetic effects can play important roles in disease, the molecular mechanisms underlying context specificity are poorly understood. Here, we identified shared quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for chromatin accessibility and gene expression in human macrophages exposed to IFNγ, Salmonella and IFNγ plus Salmonella. We observed that ~60% of stimulus-specific expression QTLs with a detectable effect on chromatin altered the chromatin accessibility in naive cells, thus suggesting that they perturb enhancer priming. Such variants probably influence binding of cell-type-specific transcription factors, such as PU.1, which can then indirectly alter the binding of stimulus-specific transcription factors, such as NF-κB or STAT2. Thus, although chromatin accessibility assays are powerful for fine-mapping causal regulatory variants, detecting their downstream effects on gene expression will be challenging, requiring profiling of large numbers of stimulated cellular states and time points.
OBJECTIVE: Tissue macrophages induce and perpetuate proinflammatory responses, thereby promoting metabolic and cardiovascular disease. Lipoprotein lipase (LpL), the rate-limiting enzyme in blood triglyceride catabolism, is expressed by macrophages in atherosclerotic plaques. We questioned whether LpL, which is also expressed in the bone marrow (BM), affects circulating white blood cells and BM proliferation and modulates macrophage retention within the artery.APPROACH AND RESULTS: We characterized blood and tissue leukocytes and inflammatory molecules in transgenic LpL knockout mice rescued from lethal hypertriglyceridemia within 18 hours of life by muscle-specific LpL expression (MCKL0 mice). LpL-deficient mice had ≈40% reduction in blood white blood cell, neutrophils, and total and inflammatory monocytes (Ly6C/Ghi). LpL deficiency also significantly decreased expression of BM macrophage-associated markers (F4/80 and TNF-α [tumor necrosis factor α]), master transcription factors (PU.1 and C/EBPα), and colony-stimulating factors (CSFs) and their receptors, which are required for monocyte and monocyte precursor proliferation and differentiation. As a result, differentiation of macrophages from BM-derived monocyte progenitors and monocytes was decreased in MCKL0 mice. Furthermore, although LpL deficiency was associated with reduced BM uptake and accumulation of triglyceride-rich particles and macrophage CSF-macrophage CSF receptor binding, triglyceride lipolysis products (eg, linoleic acid) stimulated expression of macrophage CSF and macrophage CSF receptor in BM-derived macrophage precursor cells. Arterial macrophage numbers decreased after heparin-mediated LpL cell dissociation and by genetic knockout of arterial LpL. Reconstitution of LpL-expressing BM replenished aortic macrophage density.CONCLUSIONS: LpL regulates peripheral leukocyte levels and affects BM monocyte progenitor differentiation and aortic macrophage accumulation.
The transcription factor PU.1 was previously identified as an oncogene or a tumor suppressor in different types of leukemia. The aim of the present study was to investigate the expression of PU.1 in breast cancer and to analyze its association with clinical features and prognosis. Immunohistochemistry was used to determine PU.1 expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays and paraffin-embedded sections. The association between PU.1 expression and clinicopathological factors was assessed by using chi-square test. The survival analysis of patients was conducted by using Kaplan-Meier analysis and log-rank tests. Cox regression was utilized for univariate and multivariate analyses of prognostic factors. The results indicated that the expression level of PU.1 protein in breast cancer samples was significantly higher compared with normal breast tissues (P=2.63×10-8). Furthermore, the level of PU.1 expression was detected to be positively associated with androgen receptor (P=0.027) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 status (P=2.03×10-21) as well as molecular subtype (P=3.51×10-11). Furthermore, patients with negative PU.1 expression had longer OR compared with those with positive PU.1 expression (P=3.67×10-4). Multivariate Cox regression analysis revealed that PU.1 expression level and tumor-node-metastasis stage were independent prognostic factors for overall survival (P=0.034 and P=0.018, respectively). Therefore, PU.1 protein expression may contribute to breast cancer progression and may be a valuable molecular marker to predict the prognosis of patients with breast cancer.
Autoimmune disease is highly prevalent in humans. Since conventional therapies have limited efficacy and often come with significant side effects, nutrition may provide an alternative and complementary approach to improving autoimmune disorders. Naringenin, a flavonoid found in citrus fruits, has been shown to have anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. Using the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a rodent model of human multiple sclerosis, we determined the effect of dietary naringenin (0.5%) on autoimmune disease. We found that naringenin reduced the incidence, delayed the onset, and attenuated the symptoms of EAE, which were accompanied by reduced immune cell infiltration and demyelination in the spinal cord. Additionally, the pro-inflammatory CD4+ T cell subsets Th1, Th9, and Th17 cells together with their respective transcription factors T-bet, PU.1, and RORγt were reduced in both the central nervous system (CNS) and lymph nodes of EAE mice fed naringenin while no difference was found in Th2 and regulatory T cell (Treg) populations in either CNS or lymph nodes between the two groups. We further showed that pathologic T cell proliferation induced by ex vivo re-stimulation with MOG35-55 and proinflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-α were lower in naringenin-fed mice than in the control mice. Additionally, we found that naringenin treatment inhibited mRNA expression of CXCL10 (Th1 recruiting chemokine), vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and VLA-4 (VCAM-1 ligand) in the CNS of EAE mice. Altogether, these results indicate that naringenin may have a potential to ameliorate autoimmune disease by favorably modulating autoimmune response.
Dendritic cells (DC) are a class of bone-marrow-derived cells arising from lympho-myeloid haematopoiesis that form an essential interface between the innate sensing of pathogens and the activation of adaptive immunity. This task requires a wide range of mechanisms and responses, which are divided between three major DC subsets: plasmacytoid DC (pDC), myeloid/conventional DC1 (cDC1) and myeloid/conventional DC2 (cDC2). Each DC subset develops under the control of a specific repertoire of transcription factors involving differential levels of IRF8 and IRF4 in collaboration with PU.1, ID2, E2-2, ZEB2, KLF4, IKZF1 and BATF3. DC haematopoiesis is conserved between mammalian species and is distinct from monocyte development. Although monocytes can differentiate into DC, especially during inflammation, most quiescent tissues contain significant resident populations of DC lineage cells. An extended range of surface markers facilitates the identification of specific DC subsets although it remains difficult to dissociate cDC2 from monocyte-derived DC in some settings. Recent studies based on an increasing level of resolution of phenotype and gene expression have identified pre-DC in human blood and heterogeneity among cDC2. These advances facilitate the integration of mouse and human immunology, support efforts to unravel human DC function in vivo and continue to present new translational opportunities to medicine.
Due to heterogeneous morphological and immunophenotypic features, approximately 50% of peripheral T-cell lymphomas are unclassifiable and categorized as peripheral T-cell lymphomas, not otherwise specified. These conditions have an aggressive course and poor clinical outcome. Identification of actionable biomarkers is urgently needed to develop better therapeutic strategies. Epigenetic alterations play a crucial role in tumor progression. Histone modifications, particularly methylation and acetylation, are generally involved in chromatin state regulation. Here we screened the core set of genes related to histone methylation (KMT2D, SETD2, KMT2A, KDM6A) and acetylation (EP300, CREBBP) and identified 59 somatic mutations in 45 of 125 (36.0%) patients with peripheral T-cell lymphomas, not otherwise specified. Histone modifier gene mutations were associated with inferior progression-free survival time of the patients, irrespective of chemotherapy regimens, but an increased response to the histone deacetylase inhibitor chidamide. In vitro, chidamide significantly inhibited the growth of EP300-mutated T-lymphoma cells and KMT2D-mutated T-lymphoma cells when combined with the hypomethylating agent decitabine. Mechanistically, decitabine acted synergistically with chidamide to enhance the interaction of KMT2D with transcription factor PU.1, regulated H3K4me-associated signaling pathways, and sensitized T-lymphoma cells to chidamide. In a xenograft KMT2D-mutated T-lymphoma model, dual treatment with chidamide and decitabine significantly retarded tumor growth and induced cell apoptosis through modulation of the KMT2D/H3K4me axis. Our work thus contributes to the understanding of aberrant histone modification in peripheral T-cell lymphomas, not otherwise specified and the stratification of a biological subset that can benefit from epigenetic treatment.
People with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have a 25-fold higher risk of limb loss than non-diabetics due in large part to impaired wound healing. Here, we show that the impaired wound healing phenotype found in T2D mice is recapitulated in lethally irradiated wild type recipients, whose hematopoiesis is reconstituted with hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) from T2D mice, indicating an HSC-autonomous mechanism. This impaired wound healing phenotype of T2D mice is due to a Nox-2-dependent increase in HSC oxidant stress that decreases microRNA let-7d-3p, which, in turn, directly upregulates Dnmt1, leading to the hypermethylation of Notch1, PU.1, and Klf4. This HSC-autonomous mechanism reduces the number of wound macrophages and skews their polarization towards M1 macrophages. These findings reveal a novel inflammatory mechanism by which a metabolic disorder induces an epigenetic mechanism in HSCs, which predetermines the gene expression of terminally differentiated inflammatory cells that controls their number and function.
BACKGROUND: Sequential stages of B-cell development is stringently coordinated by transcription factors (TFs) network that include B-lineage commitment TFs (Ikaros, Runx1/Cbfb, E2A, and FOXO1), B-lineage maintenance TFs (EBF1 and PAX5) and stage specific set of TFs (IRF4, IRF8, BCL6, BLIMP1). Deregulation of TFs expression and activity is often occurs in malignant B cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate TFs expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells taking into consideration CD150 cell surface expression. From other side we attempted to regulate TFs expression via CD150 and CD180 cell surface receptors.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Studies were performed on normal peripheral blood B-cell subpopulations and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells isolated from peripheral blood of 67 primary untreated patients with CLL. Evaluation of TFs expression was performed on mRNA level using qRT-PCR and on protein level by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Median of PAX5 and EBF1 mRNA expression was higher in cell surface CD150 positive (csCD150+) compared to csCD150- CLL cases or normal CD19+ and CD19+CD5+ B-cell subsets. Differences in mRNA expression of IRF8, IRF4 and BLIMP1 between studied groups of CLL and normal B cells were not revealed. All CLL cases were characterized by downregulated expression of PU.1 and BCL6 mRNAs in comparison to normal B cells. At the same time elevated SPIB mRNA expression level was restricted to CLL cells. Protein expression of IRF4, IRF8 and BCL6 was uniformly distributed between csCD150- and csCD150+ CLL cases. PU.1 protein and CD20 that is direct PU.1 target gene positively correlated with CD150 cell surface expression on CLL cells. Ligation of CD150 and CD180 alone or in combination upregulated IRF8 and PU.1 while downregulated the IRF4 mRNA expression. Signaling via CD150 or CD180 alone elevated the level of BCL6 mRNA. Strong downregulation of IRF4 mRNA was observed after CD150, CD180 or CD150 andCD180 coligation on CLL cells. We found that in CLL cells CD150 is a negative regulator of SPIB while CD180 is involved in upregulation of EBF1 expression level. Moreover, CD180 ligation on CLL cells caused increase of CD150 mRNA level that is a one of the EBF1 target genes.CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of TFs expression profile revealed upregulated SPIB mRNA level and downregulated PU.1 in CLL cells. CD150 and CD180 receptors may modulate transcriptional program in CLL cells by regulating the TFs expression levels.
Interferon regulatory factors (IRF) have critical functions in lymphoid development and in immune response regulation. Although many studies have described the function of IRF4 in CD4+ T cells, few have focused on the IRF4 homologue, IRF8. Here, we show that IRF8 is required for Th9 differentiation in vitro and in vivo. IRF8 functions through a transcription factor complex consisting of IRF8, IRF4, PU.1 and BATF, which binds to DNA and boosts Il9 transcription. By contrast, IRF8 deficiency promotes the expression of other genes such as Il4, as IRF8 dimerises with the transcriptional repressor ETV6 and inhibits Il4 expression. In vivo, IRF8 is essential for the anti-tumour effects of Th9 cells in mouse melanoma models. Our results show that IRF8 complexes boost the Th9 program and repress Il4 expression to modulate Th9 cell differentiation, thereby implicating IRF8 as a potential therapeutic target to affect Th9 responses in cancer therapy.
Interleukin-32 theta (IL-32θ) is newly identified isoform of IL-32 which plays a vital role in inflammatory responses. Like IL-32α and IL-32β, IL-32θ isoform acts as an intracellular inflammatory modulator. It results in reduction of IL-1β production by attenuating the expression of PU.1 and inhibition of monocytes differentiation into macrophages. IL-32θ hinders TNF-α expression by inhibiting p38 MAPK and inhibitor of κB (IκB) as well. It also reserved STAT3-ZEB1 pathway leading to the inhibition of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness. Hence, it can be concluded that IL-32θ is an anti-inflammatory cytokine that can act as a tumor suppressor and can play vital role in colon cancer therapies. IL-32θ also plays a crucial role in immune system responses and cellular differentiation during disease pathogenesis. To our best knowledge this is the first ever review to condense the importance, precise mode of action in disease progression and latent remedial implications of IL-32θ in several inflammatory disorders.
The Csf1r locus encodes the receptor for macrophage colony-stimulating factor, which controls the proliferation, differentiation and survival of macrophages. The 300 bp Fms intronic regulatory element (FIRE), within the second intron of Csf1r, is necessary and sufficient to direct macrophage-specific transcription. We have analysed the conservation and divergence of the FIRE DNA sequence in vertebrates. FIRE is present in the same location in the Csf1r locus in reptile, avian and mammalian genomes. Nearest neighbor analysis based upon this element alone largely recapitulates phylogenies inferred from much larger genomic sequence datasets. One core element, containing binding sites for AP1 family and the macrophage-specific transcription factor, PU.1, is conserved from lizards to humans. Around this element, the FIRE sequence is conserved within clades with the most conserved elements containing motifs for known myeloid-expressed transcription factors. Conversely, there is little alignment between clades outside the AP1/PU.1 element. The analysis favours a hybrid between "enhanceosome" and "smorgasbord" models of enhancer function, in which elements cooperate to bind components of the available transcription factor milieu.
Latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is a major oncogene encoded by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and is essential for immortalization of B cells by the virus. Previous studies suggested that several transcription factors, such as PU.1, RBP-Jκ, NFκB, EBF1, AP-2 and STAT, are involved in LMP1 induction; however, the means by which the oncogene is negatively regulated remains unclear. Here, we introduced short mutations into the proximal LMP1 promoter that includes recognition sites for the E-box and Ikaros transcription factors in the context of EBV-bacterial artificial chromosome. Upon infection, the mutant exhibited increased LMP1 expression and EBV-mediated immortalization of B cells. However, single mutations of either the E-box or Ikaros sites had limited effects on LMP1 expression and transformation. Our results suggest that this region contains a suppressive cis-regulatory element, but other transcriptional repressors (apart from the E-box and Ikaros transcription factors) may remain to be discovered.
V(D)J recombination is essential for the generation of diverse antigen receptor (AgR) repertoires. In B cells, immunoglobulin kappa (Igκ) light chain recombination follows immunoglobulin heavy chain (Igh) recombination. We recently developed the DNA-based VDJ-seq assay for the unbiased quantitation of Igh VH and DH repertoires. Integration of VDJ-seq data with genome-wide datasets revealed that two chromatin states at the recombination signal sequence (RSS) of VH genes are highly predictive of recombination in mouse pro-B cells. It is unknown whether local chromatin states contribute to Vκ gene choice during Igκ recombination. Here we adapt VDJ-seq to profile the Igκ VκJκ repertoire and present a comprehensive readout in mouse pre-B cells, revealing highly variable Vκ gene usage. Integration with genome-wide datasets for histone modifications, DNase hypersensitivity, transcription factor binding and germline transcription identified PU.1 binding at the RSS, which was unimportant for Igh, as highly predictive of whether a Vκ gene will recombine or not, suggesting that it plays a binary, all-or-nothing role, priming genes for recombination. Thereafter, the frequency with which these genes recombine was shaped both by the presence and level of enrichment of several other chromatin features, including H3K4 methylation and IKAROS binding. Moreover, in contrast to the Igh locus, the chromatin landscape of the promoter, as well as of the RSS, contributes to Vκ gene recombination. Thus, multiple facets of local chromatin features explain much of the variation in Vκ gene usage. Together, these findings reveal shared and divergent roles for epigenetic features and transcription factors in AgR V(D)J recombination and provide avenues for further investigation of chromatin signatures that may underpin V(D)J-mediated chromosomal translocations.
PU box binding protein (PU.1) is a critical transcription factor involved in many pathological processes. However, its exact role in activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and liver fibrosis was rarely reported. Here, we found that, in HSCs of PU.1+/- mice, Sirt1 mRNA expression was not changed but Sirt1 protein was significantly increased, suggesting its promoting role in Sirt1 translation. We then isolated HSCs from wild-type (WT) and PU.1+/- mice, and the pcDNA-PU.1 expression vector was transfected into PU.1+/- HSCs. We checked the levels of miR-34a and miR-29c, two Sirt1-targetting miRNAs, and protein levels of PU.1 and Sirt1. The results showed that miR-34a/-29c were significantly reduced and Sirt1 protein was increased in PU.1+/- HSCs, compared with WT HSCs. Besides, PU.1 overexpression inversed the reduction in miR-34a/-29c levels and the increase in Sirt1 protein in both PU.1+/- HSCs and WT HSCs. Additionally, ChIP-quantitive real-time PCR (qPCR) assay comfirmed that PU.1 was directly bound to both the promoter regions of miR-34a and miR-29c Importantly, PU.1 overexpression promoted the proliferation, migration, activation, oxidative stress and inflammatory response in WT HSCs, while the promotion could be inversed by either overexpression of Sirt1 or inhibition of miR-34a/-29c Moreover, animal model of liver fibrosis was established by intraperitoneal injections of thioacetamide (TAA) in WT and PU.1+/- mice, respectively. Compared with the WT mice, PU.1+/- mice displayed a lower fibrotic score, less collagen content, better liver function, and lower levels of oxidative stress and inflammatory response. In conclusion, PU.1 suppresses Sirt1 translation via transcriptional promotion of miR-34a/-29c, thus promoting Sirt1-mediated HSC activation and TAA-induced hepatic fibrosis.
Minor-groove binding hairpin polyamides (PAs) bind specific DNA sequences. Synthetic modifications can improve PA-DNA binding affinity and include flexible modules, such as β-alanine (β) motifs to replace pyrroles (Py), and increasing compound charge using N-terminal cationic substituents. To better understand the variations in kinetics and affinities caused by these modifications on PA-DNA interactions, a comprehensive set of PAs with different numbers and positions of β and different types of N-cationic groups was systematically designed and synthesized to bind their cognate sequence, the λB motif. The λB motif is also a strong binding promoter site of the major groove targeting transcription factor PU.1. The PA binding affinities and kinetics were evaluated using a spectrum of powerful biophysical methods: thermal melting, biosensor surface plasmon resonance and circular dichroism. The results show that β inserts affect PA-DNA interactions in a number and position dependent manner. Specifically, a β replacement between two imidazole heterocycles (ImβIm) generally strengthens binding. In addition, N-terminal cationic groups can accelerate the association between PA and DNA, but the bulky size of TMG can cause steric hindrance and unfavourable repulsive electrostatic interactions in some PAs. The future design of stronger binding PA requires careful combination of βs and cationic substituents.
Lymphoid lineage commitment is an important process in haematopoiesis, which forms the immune system to protect the host from pathogen invasion. However, how multipotent progenitors (MPP) switch into common lymphoid progenitors (CLP) or common myeloid progenitors (CMP) during this process remains elusive. Here we show that PCI domain-containing protein 2 (Pcid2) is highly expressed in MPPs. Pcid2 deletion in the haematopoietic system causes skewed lymphoid lineage specification. In MPPs, Pcid2 interacts with the Zinc finger HIT-type containing 1 (ZNHIT1) to block Snf2-related CREBBP activator protein (SRCAP) activity and prevents the deposition of histone variant H2A.Z and transcription factor PU.1 to key lymphoid fate regulator genes. Furthermore, Znhit1 deletion also abrogates H2A/H2A.Z exchange in MPPs. Thus Pcid2 controls lymphoid lineage commitment through the regulation of SRCAP remodelling activity.
Humoral immunity requires B cells to respond to multiple stimuli, including antigen, membrane and soluble ligands, and microbial products. Ets family transcription factors regulate many aspects of haematopoiesis, although their functions in humoral immunity are difficult to decipher as a result of redundancy between the family members. Here we show that mice lacking both PU.1 and SpiB in mature B cells do not generate germinal centers and high-affinity antibody after protein immunization. PU.1 and SpiB double-deficient B cells have a survival defect after engagement of CD40 or Toll-like receptors (TLR), despite paradoxically enhanced plasma cell differentiation. PU.1 and SpiB regulate the expression of many components of the B cell receptor signaling pathway and the receptors for CD40L, BAFF and TLR ligands. Thus, PU.1 and SpiB enable B cells to appropriately respond to environmental cues.
Erratum in    Oncotarget. 2018 Apr 20;9(30):21629.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) resistance has been a critical problem in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) relapsed patients. In this study, dasatinib synergized with ATRA to trigger differentiation in ATRA-resistant APL cell lines. The combined treatment activated RAF-1, MEK and ERK as well as enhanced ATRA-promoted up-regulation of the protein level of PU.1, C/EBPβ and C/EBPε. U0126 (MEK specific inhibitor) and sorafenib tosylate (RAF-1 specific inhibitor) suppressed the combined treatment-induced differentiation, ERK phosphorylation and the up-regulation of C/EBPs and PU.1. Sorafenib tosylate also attenuated the MEK activity. However, the combined treatment did not enhance Ras activity and Ras inhibitor neither blocked MEK activation nor inhibited differentiation. Therefore, the combined treatment induced differentiation via Ras independent RAF-1/MEK/ERK. Earlier than RAF-1 activation, dasatinib suppressed Lyn activity, the predominant activated Src family kinase (SFK) and dephosphorylated RAF-1 at S259. Furthermore, SFK inhibitor, PP2 did suppress Lyn activity and mimicked the effect of dasatinib on ATRA-induced differentiation as well as decreased phosphorylation of RAF-1 at S259. Thus, it was suggested that Lyn inhibition might activate RAF-1 by the dephosphorylation of RAF at S259 and lead to differentiation. In conclusion, the combination of dasatinib and ATRA could overcome ATRA resistance through Lyn inhibition-mediated activation of RAF-1/MEK/ERK.
Osteoclast lineage commitment and differentiation have been studied extensively, although the mechanism by which transcription factor(s) control osteoclast terminal differentiation, activation, and function remains unclear. CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (C/ebpα) has been reported to be a key regulator of osteoclast cell lineage commitment, yet C/ebpα's roles in osteoclast terminal differentiation, activation and function, and bone homeostasis, under physiological or pathological conditions, have not been studied because newborn C/ebpα-null mice die within several hours after birth. Furthermore, the function of C/ebpα in osteoclast terminal differentiation, activation, and function is largely unknown. Herein, we generated and analyzed an osteoclast-specific C/ebpα conditional knockout (CKO) mouse model via Ctsk-Cre mice and found that C/ebpα-deficient mice exhibited a severe osteopetrosis phenotype due to impaired osteoclast terminal differentiation, activation, and function, including mildly reduced osteoclast number, impaired osteoclast polarization, actin formation, and bone resorption, which demonstrated the novel function of C/ebpα in cell function and terminal differentiation. Interestingly, C/ebpα deficiency did not affect bone formation or monocyte/macrophage development. Our results further demonstrated that C/ebpα deficiency suppressed the expression of osteoclast functional genes, e.g. encoding cathepsin K (Ctsk), Atp6i (Tcirg1), and osteoclast regulator genes, e.g. encoding c-fos (Fos), and nuclear factor of activated T-cells 1 (Nfatc1), while having no effect on Pu.1 (Spi1) expression. Promoter activity mapping and ChIP assay defined the critical cis-regulatory element (CCRE) in the promoter region of Nfatc1, and also showed that the CCREs were directly associated with C/ebpα, which enhanced the promoter's activity. The deficiency of C/ebpα in osteoclasts completely blocked ovariectomy-induced bone loss, indicating that C/ebpα is a promising new target for the treatment of osteolytic diseases. Copyright © 2017 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The transcription factor PU.1 is often impaired in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Here, we used AML cells that already had low PU.1 levels and further inhibited PU.1 using either RNA interference or, to our knowledge, first-in-class small-molecule inhibitors of PU.1 that we developed specifically to allosterically interfere with PU.1-chromatin binding through interaction with the DNA minor groove that flanks PU.1-binding motifs. These small molecules of the heterocyclic diamidine family disrupted the interaction of PU.1 with target gene promoters and led to downregulation of canonical PU.1 transcriptional targets. shRNA or small-molecule inhibition of PU.1 in AML cells from either PU.1lo mutant mice or human patients with AML-inhibited cell growth and clonogenicity and induced apoptosis. In murine and human AML (xeno)transplantation models, treatment with our PU.1 inhibitors decreased tumor burden and resulted in increased survival. Thus, our study provides proof of concept that PU.1 inhibition has potential as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of AML and for the development of small-molecule inhibitors of PU.1.
The transcription factors C/EBPα and PU.1 are upregulated by RANKL through activation of its receptor RANK during osteoclastogenesis and are critical for osteoclast differentiation. Herein we investigated the mechanisms underlying how C/EBPα and PU.1 regulate osteoclast differentiation in response to RANK signaling. We showed that C/EBPα or PU.1 overexpression could initiate osteoclastogenesis and upregulate the expressions of the osteoclast genes encoding the nuclear factor of activated T-cells, C1, cathepsin K, and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase independently of RANKL. However, while PU.1 upregulated C/EBPα, C/EBPα could not upregulate PU.1. RANK has a unique cytoplasmic domain, 535IVVY538 motif, which is crucial for osteoclast differentiation. We demonstrated that mutational inactivation of RANK IVVY motif blocked osteoclast differentiation and significantly attenuated C/EBPα, but not PU.1, expression, indicating that RANK-IVVY-induced signaling is dispensable to PU.1 upregulation during osteoclastogenesis. However, C/EBPα or PU.1 overexpression failed to promote osteoclastogenesis in cells expressing mutated RANK IVVY motif. We noted that RANK-IVVY-motif inactivation significantly repressed osteoclast genes as compared with a vector control, suggesting that IVVY motif might also negatively regulate osteoclast inhibitors during osteoclastogenesis. Consistently, IVVY-motif inactivation triggered upregulation of RBP-J, a potent osteoclast inhibitor, during osteoclastogenesis. Notably, C/EBPα or PU.1 overexpression in cells expressing mutated RANK IVVY motif failed to control the deregulated RBP-J expression, resulting in repression of osteoclast genes. Accordingly, RBP-J silencing in the mutant cells rescued osteoclastogenesis with C/EBPα or PU.1 overexpression. In conclusion, we revealed that while PU.1 and C/EBPα are critical for osteoclastogenesis, they respond differently to RANKL-induced activation of RANK IVVY motif.
Our objective was to evaluate the immunogenicity of branded and biosimilar infliximab by detecting changes in T-helper-9 (Th9) percentages induced by an in vitro stimulation test.METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected from 55 consecutive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) outpatients (15 drug free, 20 successfully treated with branded infliximab, 20 branded infliximab inadequate responders) and 10 healthy controls were cultured, with or without 50 μg/mL of infliximab originator (Remicade®) or 50 μg/mL of infliximab biosimilar (Remsima®) for 18 h. Th9 lymphocytes were identified by means of flow cytometry as PU.1 and IRF4-expressing, IL-9-secreting CD4⁺ T cells. Furthermore, the markers CCR7 and CD45RA were used to distinguish naïve from memory IL-9 producer cells.RESULTS: Under unstimulated conditions, the drug-free RA patients had the highest percentages of Th9 lymphocytes. Following stimulation with branded infliximab, the percentages of PU.1 and IRF4-expressing Th9 cells, CCR7⁺, CD45RA- (central memory) and CCR7-, CD45RA- (effector memory) cells significantly increased in the group of inadequate responders, but no significant variation was observed after exposure to the biosimilar of infliximab.CONCLUSIONS: Th9 cells seem to be involved in the immune response to the epitopes of branded, but not biosimilar, infliximab, and this may depend on the recall and stimulation of both central and effector memory cells.
Acute erythroleukemia is a rare form of acute myeloid leukemia recognized by its distinct phenotypic attribute of erythroblastic proliferation. After a century of its descriptive history, many diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic implications relating to this unique leukemia subset remain uncertain. The rarity of the disease and the simultaneous involvement of its associated myeloid compartment have complicated in vitro studies of human erythroleukemia cell lines. Although murine and cell line erythroleukemia models have provided valuable insights into pathophysiology, translation of these concepts into treatment are not forthcoming. Integration of knowledge gained through a careful study of these models with more recent data emerging from molecular characterization will help elucidate key mechanistic pathways and provide a much needed framework that accounts for erythroid lineage-specific attributes. In this article, we discuss the evolving diagnostic concept of erythroleukemia, translational aspects of its pathophysiology, and promising therapeutic targets through an appraisal of the current literature.
Comment in    Cell Cycle. 2018;17(4):391-392.
Transcriptional deregulation caused by epigenetic or genetic alterations is a major cause of leukemic transformation. The Spi1/PU.1 transcription factor is a key regulator of many steps of hematopoiesis, and limits self-renewal of hematopoietic stem cells. The deregulation of its expression or activity contributes to leukemia, in which Spi1 can be either an oncogene or a tumor suppressor. Herein we explored whether cellular senescence, an anti-tumoral pathway that restrains cell proliferation, is a mechanism by which Spi1 limits hematopoietic cell expansion, and thus prevents the development of leukemia. We show that Spi1 overexpression triggers cellular senescence both in primary fibroblasts and hematopoietic cells. Erythroid and myeloid lineages are both prone to Spi1-induced senescence. In hematopoietic cells, Spi1-induced senescence requires its DNA-binding activity and a functional p38MAPK14 pathway but is independent of a DNA-damage response. In contrast, in fibroblasts, Spi1-induced senescence is triggered by a DNA-damage response. Importantly, using our well-established Spi1 transgenic leukemia mouse model, we demonstrate that Spi1 overexpression also induces senescence in erythroid progenitors of the bone marrow in vivo before the onset of the pre-leukemic phase of erythroleukemia. Remarkably, the senescence response is lost during the progression of the disease and erythroid blasts do not display a higher expression of Dec1 and CDKN1A, two of the induced senescence markers in young animals. These results bring indirect evidence that leukemia develops from cells which have bypassed Spi1-induced senescence. Overall, our results reveal senescence as a Spi1-induced anti-proliferative mechanism that may be a safeguard against the development of acute myeloid leukemia.
A genomic variant in the human ADTRP [androgen-dependent tissue factor (TF) pathway inhibitor (TFPI) regulating protein] gene increases the risk of coronary artery disease, the leading cause of death worldwide. TFPI is the TF pathway inhibitor that is involved in coagulation. Here, we report that adtrp and tfpi form a regulatory axis that specifies primitive myelopoiesis and definitive hematopoiesis, but not primitive erythropoiesis or vasculogenesis. In zebrafish, there are 2 paralogues for adtrp (i.e., adtrp1 and adtrp2). Knockdown of adtrp1 expression inhibits the specification of hemangioblasts, as shown by decreased expression of the hemangioblast markers, etsrp, fli1a, and scl; blocks primitive hematopoiesis, as shown by decreased expression of pu.1, mpo, and l-plastin; and disrupts the specification of hematopoietic stem cells (definitive hematopoiesis), as shown by decreased expression of runx1 and c-myb However, adtrp1 knockdown does not affect erythropoiesis during primitive hematopoiesis (no effect on gata1 or h-bae1) or vasculogenesis (no effect on kdrl, ephb2a, notch3, dab2, or flt4). Knockdown of adtrp2 expression does not have apparent effects on all markers tested. Knockdown of adtrp1 reduced the expression of tfpi, and hematopoietic defects in adtrp1 morphants were rescued by tfpi overexpression. These data suggest that the regulation of tfpi expression is one potential mechanism by which adtrp1 regulates primitive myelopoiesis and definitive hematopoiesis.-Wang, L., Wang, X., Wang, L., Yousaf, M., Li, J., Zuo, M., Yang, Z., Gou, D., Bao, B., Li, L., Xiang, N., Jia, H., Xu, C., Chen, Q., Wang, Q. K. Identification of a new adtrp1-tfpi regulatory axis for the specification of primitive myelopoiesis and definitive hematopoiesis.
Binding motifs of the ETS-domain transcription factor GABPA are found with high significance below the summits of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) cistrome. VDR is the nuclear receptor for the biologically most active vitamin D metabolite 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3). In this study, we determined the GABPA cistrome in THP-1 human monocytes and found that it is comprised of 3822 genomic loci, some 20% of which were modulated by 1,25(OH)2D3. The GABPA cistrome showed a high overlap rate with accessible chromatin and the pioneer transcription factor PU.1. Interestingly, 23 and 12% of persistent and transient VDR binding sites, respectively, co-localized with GABPA, which is clearly higher than the rate of secondary VDR loci (4%). Some 40% of GABPA binding sites were found at transcription start sites, nearly 100 of which are of 1,25(OH)2D3 target genes. On 593 genomic loci VDR and GABPA co-localized with PU.1, while only 175 VDR sites bound GABPA in the absence of PU.1. In total, VDR sites with GABPA co-localization may control some 450 vitamin D target genes. Those genes that are co-controlled by PU.1 preferentially participate in cellular and immune signaling processes, while the remaining genes are involved in cellular metabolism pathways. In conclusion, GABPA may contribute to differential VDR target gene regulation.
In this study, we report that an acute phase reactant, serum amyloid A (SAA), strongly inhibits dendritic cell differentiation induced by GM-CSF plus IL-4. SAA markedly decreased the expression of MHCII and CD11c. Moreover, SAA decreased cell surface GM-CSF receptor expression. SAA also decreased the expression of PU.1 and C/EBPα, which play roles in the expression of GM-CSF receptor. This inhibitory response by SAA is partly mediated by the well-known SAA receptors, Toll-like receptor 2 and formyl peptide receptor 2. Taken together, we suggest a novel insight into the inhibitory role of SAA in dendritic cell differentiation.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.(2)State Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100005, China.(3)State Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100005, China. E-mail: wo_wfang@hotmail.com.(4)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China. E-mail: xiaohu@ihcams.ac.cn.
During spinal cord development, endogenous progenitors expressing nestin can migrate into the target and differentiate into neurons and other glial cells. Microglial cells can also be derived from nestin progenitor cells, even in the adult brain. Knockdown of Jak kinase 3 (Jak3) signaling can increase neurogenesis with longer neurite outgrowth in cortical progenitor cells. This study investigated the effect of Jak3 signaling on differentiation from nestin progenitor cells using E13.5 spinal progenitor cell cultures. In growth factors-enriched culture, developing neurons could not survive after several days and also a significant proportion of nestin-expressing cells transformed into ameboid Iba1 microglial cells, which increased exponentially after 5 days. This microgliogenesis was predominantly regulated by Jak3 signaling, which was confirmed by transcription factors responsible for microgliogenesis, and microglial migration and phagocytosis, such as Pu.1, Irf8, and Runx1. Jak3 inhibition also significantly increased the Tuj1 growing neurites with little microglial activation. These results indicated that neuronal and microglial cell differentiation was regulated primarily by Jak3 signaling and the developing neurons and neurite outgrowth might also be regulated by Jak3-dependent microglial activity.
BACKGROUND: Histiocytic sarcoma (HS) is a rare malignant neoplasm showing morphologic and immunophenotypic features of histiocytes. Molecular characteristics of HS and fine-needle aspiration (FNA) criteria for its diagnosis have not been established.METHODS: A case series of HS in 8 FNA samples from 6 patients was reviewed along with histopathologic and clinical data. Immunohistochemistry was performed on cell blocks (3 cases), core biopsies (5 cases), and surgical specimens (4 cases). Targeted-exome next-generation sequencing (NGS) was performed on surgical resection specimens in 4 cases.RESULTS: Four patients had a known history of hematolymphoid malignancy. Cytomorphologic features included variably cellular smears composed of large epithelioid cells with reniform nuclei and abundant vacuolated cytoplasm, in an inflammatory background, with occasional cytophagocytosis and lymphoglandular bodies. Marked pleomorphism, multinucleated monster cells, and binucleated histiocytoid cells with partially overlapping, eccentrically placed nuclei resembling Pac-Man were common. Most cases expressed histiocytic markers CD68 (6 of 7 cases), CD163 (5 of 5 cases), and PU.1 (3 of 4 cases). In 3 cases, NGS analysis revealed alterations in lysine methyltransferase 2D (KMT2D)/mixed-lineage leukemia 2 (MLL2), a gene involved in chromatin regulation and previously implicated in the pathogenesis of follicular lymphoma.CONCLUSIONS: Although diagnosing HS with FNA alone is extremely challenging, the presence of pleomorphic and epithelioid large cells with binucleation and/or multinucleation in an inflammatory background should prompt the diagnosis of HS with judicious use of confirmatory histiocytic lineage markers. The detection of recurrent KMT2D/MLL2 alterations implicates epigenetic regulation in the pathogenesis of HS and supports the notion of transdifferentiation from a genetically similar but phenotypically distinct tumor of a different lineage. Cancer Cytopathol 2017;125:604-14. © 2017 American Cancer Society.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to examine the effects of low intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) on leukopenia induced by cyclophosphamide in a rabbit model.METHODS: The leukopenia model in New Zealand rabbit was established by injecting cyclophosphamide into the ear vein. Forty leukopenia model rabbits were randomly allocated to control group (n = 20) and LIPUS group (n = 20). LIPUS group underwent 20 minutes of daily ultrasound treatment at femoral metaphysis for 7 days while control group received sham treatment. Diarrhea rate, mortality and blood cell count were calculated. IgA, IgG and IgM levels were measured by ELISA. Flow cytometry was used to detect CD44, CD49d, and PU.1. HE staining was performed to analyze bone marrow hyperplasia and changes of skin and muscle.RESULTS: LIPUS treatment significantly promoted the proliferation of bone marrow nucleated cells, increased the number of WBC, IgA, IgG and IgM in the peripheral blood, and reduced the diarrhea rate and mortality. The irradiated skin and muscle tissues showed no obvious damages. LIPUS treatment promoted the migration of hematopoietic cells to peripheral blood by decreasing the expression of CD49d and CD44 on the surface of CD34 positive cells. It also promoted the differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells into granulocytes and lymphocytes by decreasing the expression of PU.1.CONCLUSION: LIPUS can be used as a safe and effective clinical treatment for cyclophosphamide induced leukopenia.
The eponymous DNA-binding domain of ETS (E26 transformation-specific) transcription factors binds a single sequence-specific site as a monomer over a single helical turn. Following our previous observation by titration calorimetry that the ETS member PU.1 dimerizes sequentially at a single sequence-specific DNA-binding site to form a 2:1 complex, we have carried out an extensive spectroscopic and biochemical characterization of site-specific PU.1 ETS complexes. Whereas 10 bp of DNA was sufficient to support PU.1 binding as a monomer, additional flanking bases were required to invoke sequential dimerization of the bound protein. NMR spectroscopy revealed a marked loss of signal intensity in the 2:1 complex, and mutational analysis implicated the distal surface away from the bound DNA as the dimerization interface. Hydroxyl radical DNA footprinting indicated that the site-specifically bound PU.1 dimers occupied an extended DNA interface downstream from the 5'-GGAA-3' core consensus relative to its 1:1 counterpart, thus explaining the apparent site size requirement for sequential dimerization. The site-specifically bound PU.1 dimer resisted competition from nonspecific DNA and showed affinities similar to other functionally significant PU.1 interactions. As sequential dimerization did not occur with the ETS domain of Ets-1, a close structural homolog of PU.1, 2:1 complex formation may represent an alternative autoinhibitory mechanism in the ETS family at the protein-DNA level.
Myelopoiesis is necessary for the generation of mature myeloid cells during homeostatic turnover and immunological insults; however, the metabolic requirements for this process remain poorly defined. Here, we demonstrate that myelopoiesis, including monocyte and macrophage differentiation, requires mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling and anabolic metabolism. Loss of mTORC1 impaired myelopoiesis under steady state and dampened innate immune responses against Listeria monocytogenes infection. Stimulation of hematopoietic progenitors with macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) resulted in mTORC1-dependent anabolic metabolism, which in turn promoted expression of M-CSF receptor and transcription factors PU.1 and IRF8, thereby constituting a feed-forward loop for myelopoiesis. Mechanistically, mTORC1 engaged glucose metabolism and initiated a transcriptional program involving Myc activation and sterol biosynthesis after M-CSF stimulation. Perturbation of glucose metabolism or disruption of Myc function or sterol biosynthesis impaired myeloid differentiation. Integrative metabolomic and genomic profiling further identified one-carbon metabolism as a central node in mTORC1-dependent myelopoiesis. Therefore, the interplay between mTORC1 signaling and metabolic reprogramming underlies M-CSF-induced myelopoiesis.
Author information:(1)Department of Immunology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine.
Macrophages are able to differentiate into classically polarized (M1) or alternatively polarized (M2) states upon encountering pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interferon (IFN) γ or anti-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL) -4/IL-13, respectively. Moreover, macrophages are known to regulate lipid metabolism via multiple members of the nuclear hormone receptor family, including the retinoid X receptors (RXR). It has been also documented that cytokines are able to modulate macrophage responses to lipid signals but the nature of these interactions and the underlying mechanisms of these processes especially at the level of the chromatinized genome are not well understood. Previous work from our laboratory suggested that STAT6 is a facilitator of nuclear receptor mediated transcriptional activity acting at the genome level. This prompted us to investigate genome-wide DNA binding events and the development of cistromes in human CD14+ monocyte-derived macrophages upon exposure to IL-4. We determined the impact of IL-4 on the PU.1, RXR and STAT6 cistromes within the active enhancer regions marked by H3K27-acetylation using chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by deep sequencing and integrated bioinformatics analyses. We found that about 2/3rd of the IL-4 induced STAT6 peaks co-localized with RXR peaks. These STAT6/RXR co-peaks differed at least in part from the non-overlapping RXR peaks regarding the most enriched de novo transcription factor binding motifs. Interestingly, RXR-binding was not regulated at the STAT6/RXR co-bound enhancers following IL-4 stimulation, but differential enhancer interactions were observed between the IL-4/STAT6 and RXR signaling pathways acting in a gene selective manner. Our results suggest that there is a novel, so far uncharacterized cistromic crosstalk between RXR and STAT6 that is likely to contribute to the formation of the active enhancer repertoire, transcriptome and differential signal-specific gene regulation of polarized macrophages.
Bmal1 (encoded by Arntl gene) is a core circadian clock gene that regulates various genes involved in circadian rhythm. Although Bmal1 is expressed rhythmically in macrophages, the role of Bmal1 in the regulation of their cellular function remains insufficiently understood. Here, we report that Bmal1 regulates time-dependent inflammatory responses following Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activation by modulating enhancer activity. Global transcriptome analysis indicated that deletion of Arntl perturbed the time-dependent inflammatory responses elicited by TLR4 activation by Kdo2-lipid A (KLA). Although the recruitment of NF-κB p65 was unaffected, the acetylation status of lysine 27 of histone 3, which correlates positively with enhancer activity, was globally increased at PU.1-containing enhancers in Arntl -/- macrophages as compared to wild-type cells. Expression of Nr1d1 and Nr1d2, encoding RevErb transcription factors, which repress enhancer RNA expression, was significantly decreased in Arntl -/- macrophages. Moreover, the level of H3K27 acetylation was increased by Arntl deletion at RevErb-dependent eRNA-expressing enhancers. These results suggest that Bmal1 controls KLA-responsive enhancers, in part by regulating RevErb-directed eRNA transcription. Taken together, the results of this study show that the clock transcription factor network containing Bmal1 controls the inflammatory responses of macrophages by regulating the epigenetic states of enhancers.
The proliferation, differentiation, and survival of cells of the macrophage lineage depends upon signals from the macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF) receptor (CSF1R). CSF1R is expressed by embryonic macrophages and induced early in adult hematopoiesis, upon commitment of multipotent progenitors to the myeloid lineage. Transcriptional activation of CSF1R requires interaction between members of the E26 transformation-specific family of transcription factors (Ets) (notably PU.1), C/EBP, RUNX, AP-1/ATF, interferon regulatory factor (IRF), STAT, KLF, REL, FUS/TLS (fused in sarcoma/ranslocated in liposarcoma) families, and conserved regulatory elements within the mouse and human CSF1R locus. One element, the Fms-intronic regulatory element (FIRE), within intron 2, is conserved functionally across all the amniotes. Lineage commitment in multipotent progenitors also requires down-regulation of specific transcription factors such as MYB, FLI1, basic leucine zipper transcriptional factor ATF-like (BATF3), GATA-1, and PAX5 that contribute to differentiation of alternative lineages and repress CSF1R transcription. Many of these transcription factors regulate each other, interact at the protein level, and are themselves downstream targets of CSF1R signaling. Control of CSF1R transcription involves feed-forward and feedback signaling in which CSF1R is both a target and a participant; and dysregulation of CSF1R expression and/or function is associated with numerous pathological conditions. In this review, we describe the regulatory network behind CSF1R expression during differentiation and development of cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system.
BACKGROUND: Interleukin-9 (IL-9) was reported as an active participant in the pathogenesis of allergic asthma. This study aimed to investigate the major source ofIL-9 and its effect on interferon γ (IFN-γ) and immunoglobulin (Ig) secretion by B cells.METHODS: We isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells from children with allergic asthma and healthy children. IL-9, IL-4 and IFN-γ expression were detected by ELISA, ELISpot and Flowcytometry. Expression of transcription factor PU.1 was measured by Western Blot. We evaluated the effect of IL-9 on B cell activation and Ig production.RESULTS: Results showed that compared with healthy children, levels of IL-9, IL-4 and PU.1 were elevated and levels of IFN-γ were lower in children with allergic asthma. IL-9-expressing CD4+ T cells did not co-express IL-4. Exogenous IL-9 inhibited IFN-γ production in a dose-dependent manner. Antigen-specific Th9 cells existed in children with house dust mite allergic asthma. IL-9 up-regulated expression of CD69 and CD25 on B cells and combination of IL-9 and IL-4 enhanced IgE production.CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, our results showed that Th9 cells may be the major source of IL-9 in children with allergic asthma. In these patients, IL-9 impairs IFN-γ production and synergistically promotes IL-4-induced IgE secretion.
Heat-shock protein 90 (Hsp 90) acts as a molecular chaperone that maintains protein stability and regulates cell proliferation, survival, differentiation and apoptosis. The present study investigated the effect of Hsp90 inhibition on human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells using the novel small-molecule inhibitor SNX-2112. We found that SNX-2112 more potently inhibited KG-1a cell growth than the classical Hsp90 inhibitor 17-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)amino‑17-demethoxygeldanamycin as determined by CCK-8 assay. Flow cytometry was used to examine the cell cycle, differentiation, and apoptosis, and western blotting and qRT-PCR were used to analyze the underlying mechanism. The results revealed that low concentrations of SNX-2112 arrested the cells in the G2/M phase and induced their differentiation and apoptosis, possibly by suppressing Akt and inhibitor of κB kinase, a component of the nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling pathway. We also found that SNX-2112 increased the expression of the differentiation transcription factors PU.1 and CCAAT‑enhancer-binding protein-α. Thus, SNX-2112 induced KG-1a cell differentiation, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis via modulation of Akt and NF-κB signaling, suggesting that it is a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of AML.
microRNA-155 (miR-155) is implicated in regulating B-cell activation and survival that is important in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) pathogenesis. PU.1, a target for miR-155, is a crucial regulator of B-cell development and enhances Tumour-Necrosis-factor-alpha (TNF-α) expression. TNF-α induces the expression of B-cell-activating-factor (BAFF). BAFF is reported to increase the expression of the autoimmunity marker; CD19. This study aimed to investigate the regulation of expression of PU.1 in pediatric-systemic-lupus-erythematosus (pSLE) patients by miR-155, and hence evaluate its impact on TNF-α/BAFF/CD19 signalling pathway. Screening revealed that PU.1 is upregulated in PBMCs and B-cells of pSLE patients. PU.1 expression directly correlated with systemic-lupus-erythematosus disease-activity-index-2 K SLEDAI-2K. Ectopic expression of miR-155 and knockdown of PU.1 suppressed PU.1, TNF-α and BAFF. Finally, miR-155 decreased the proportion of BAFF-expressing-B-cells and CD19 protein expression. These findings suggest that miR-155 suppresses autoimmunity through transcriptional repression of PU.1 and TNF-α, which in turn suppresses BAFF and CD19 protein expression.
T helper 9 (Th9) cells and interleukin (IL)-9 are involved in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases. The exact role of IL-9 and Th9 cells in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc) have not yet been studied adequately. IL-9, IL-9R, transcription factor PU.1 (PU.1), IL-4, thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β expression were assessed in skin and kidney biopsies of SSc patients and healthy controls (HC) by immunohistochemistry (IHC). The cellular source of IL-9 was also analysed by confocal microscopy analysis. Peripheral IL-9-producing cells were also studied by flow cytometry. The functional relevance of IL-9 increased expression in SSc was also investigated. Our results demonstrated a strong expression of IL-9, IL-9R, IL-4, TSLP and TGF-β in skin tissues of patients with both limited and diffuse SSc. IL-9 expression was observed mainly in the context of skin infiltrating mononuclear cells and keratinizing squamous epithelium. IL-9 over-expression was also observed in renal biopsies of patients with SSc. IL-9 producing cells in the skin were identified as Th9 cells. Similarly, Th9 cells were expanded and were the major source of IL-9 among SSc peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), their percentage being correlated directly with the modified Rodnan skin score. Infiltrating mononuclear cells, mast cells and neutrophils expressed IL-9R. In in-vitro studies stimulation with rIL-9 significantly induced NET (neutrophil extracellular traps) release by dying cells (NETosis) in neutrophils, expansion of mast cells and increase of anti-systemic scleroderma 70 (Scl70) production by B cells. Our findings suggest that Th9 cells and IL-9 could be implicated in the pathogenesis of SSc.
INTRODUCTION: Hyporesponsiveness of human lamina propria immune cells to microbial and nutritional antigens represents one important feature of intestinal homeostasis. It is at least partially mediated by low expression of the innate response receptors CD11b, CD14, CD16 as well as the cystine-glutamate transporter xCT on these cells. Milieu-specific mechanisms leading to the down-regulation of these receptors on circulating monocytes, the precursor cells of resident macrophages, are mostly unknown.METHODS: Here, we addressed the question whether the short chain fatty acid n-butyrate, a fermentation product of the mammalian gut microbiota exhibiting histone deacetylase inhibitory activity, is able to modulate expression of these receptors in human circulating monocytes.RESULTS: Exposure to n-butyrate resulted in the downregulation of CD11b, CD14, as well as CD16 surface expression on circulating monocytes. XCT transcript levels in circulating monocytes were also reduced following exposure to n-butyrate. Importantly, treatment resulted in the downregulation of protein and gene expression of the transcription factor PU.1, which was shown to be at least partially required for the expression of CD16 in circulating monocytes. PU.1 expression in resident macrophages in situ was observed to be substantially lower in healthy when compared to inflamed colonic mucosa.CONCLUSIONS: In summary, the intestinal microbiota may support symbiosis with the human host organism by n-butyrate mediated downregulation of protein and gene expression of innate response receptors as well as xCT on circulating monocytes following recruitment to the lamina propria. Downregulation of CD16 gene expression may at least partially be caused at the transcriptional level by the n-butyrate mediated decrease in expression of the transcription factor PU.1 in circulating monocytes.
The outcome of treatment-refractory and/or relapsed pediatric T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is extremely poor, and the genetic basis for this is not well understood. Here we report comprehensive profiling of 121 cases of pediatric T-ALL using transcriptome and/or targeted capture sequencing, through which we identified new recurrent gene fusions involving SPI1 (STMN1-SPI1 and TCF7-SPI1). Cases positive for fusions involving SPI1 (encoding PU.1), accounting for 3.9% (7/181) of the examined pediatric T-ALL cases, showed a double-negative (DN; CD4-CD8-) or CD8+ single-positive (SP) phenotype and had uniformly poor overall survival. These cases represent a subset of pediatric T-ALL distinguishable from the known T-ALL subsets in terms of expression of genes involved in T cell precommitment, establishment of T cell identity, and post-β-selection maturation and with respect to mutational profile. PU.1 fusion proteins retained transcriptional activity and, when constitutively expressed in mouse stem/progenitor cells, induced cell proliferation and resulted in a maturation block. Our findings highlight a unique role of SPI1 fusions in high-risk pediatric T-ALL.
We have recently demonstrated that mycobacterial ligands engage Toll like receptor 2 (TLR2) on CD4+ T cells and up-regulate T-cell receptor (TCR) triggered Th1 responses in vitro and in vivo. To better understand the role of T-cell expressed TLR2 on CD4+ T-cell differentiation and function, we conducted a gene expression analysis of murine naïve CD4+ T-cells stimulated in the presence or absence of TLR2 co-stimulation. Unexpectedly, naïve CD4+ T-cells co-stimulated via TLR2 showed a significant up-regulation of Il9 mRNA compared to cells co-stimulated via CD28. Under TH9 differentiation, we observed up-regulation of TH9 differentiation, evidenced by increases in both percent of IL-9 secreting cells and IL-9 in culture supernatants in the presence of TLR2 agonist both in polyclonal and Ag85B cognate peptide specific stimulations. Under non-polarizing conditions, TLR2 engagement on CD4+ T-cells had minimal effect on IL-9 secretion and TH9 differentiation, likely due to a prominent effect of TLR2 signaling on IFN-γ secretion and TH1 differentiation. We also report that, TLR2 signaling in CD4+ T cells increased expression of transcription factors BATF and PU.1, known to positively regulate TH9 differentiation. These results reveal a novel role of T-cell expressed TLR2 in enhancing the differentiation and function of TH9 T cells.
The genomes of myeloid malignancies are characterized by epigenomic abnormalities. Heterozygous, inactivating ten-eleven translocation 2 (TET2) mutations and neomorphic isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) mutations are recurrent and mutually exclusive in acute myeloid leukaemia genomes. Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) has been shown to stimulate the catalytic activity of TET2 in vitro and thus we sought to explore its effect in a leukaemic model expressing IDH1R132H. Vitamin C treatment induced an IDH1R132H-dependent reduction in cell proliferation and an increase in expression of genes involved in leukocyte differentiation. Vitamin C induced differentially methylated regions that displayed a significant overlap with enhancers implicated in myeloid differentiation and were enriched in sequence elements for the haematopoietic transcription factors CEBPβ, HIF1α, RUNX1 and PU.1. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing of PU.1 and RUNX1 revealed a significant loss of PU.1 and increase of RUNX1-bound DNA elements accompanied by their demethylation following vitamin C treatment. In addition, vitamin C induced an increase in H3K27ac flanking sites bound by RUNX1. On the basis of these data we propose a model of vitamin C-induced epigenetic remodelling of transcription factor-binding sites driving differentiation in a leukaemic model.
Erratum in    Nat Immunol. 2017 Sep 19;18(10 ):1173.
BACKGROUND: Th1, Th2, Th17, Treg and Tfh cells play important roles in schistosomiasis. Th9 cells secrete IL-9 as a signature cytokine and contribute to several classes of inflammatory disease. However, the effects of Th9 cells in schistosomiasis are unknown. We aimed to explore the dynamic changes and potential roles of Th9 cells in the pathogenesis of hepatic egg granulomatous inflammation in mice infected with Schistosoma japonicum.METHODS: Twenty mice with S. japonicum infection and five normal controls (NC) were used as models. The average areas of egg granulomas were estimated by hematoxylin-eosin (H & E) staining. Hepatic IL-9 and transcription factor PU.1 levels were detected by immunohistochemistry. Flow cytometry techniques were used to analyze the proportions of Th9 cells. With the help of ELISA, serum levels of IL-9 were examined.RESULTS: The egg granulomas began to form from four weeks after infection and continued to develop. In parallel with the development of egg granulomas, the hepatic levels of IL-9 and PU.1 increased very slowly during the first four weeks post-infection and increased rapidly thereafter. Moreover, the proportions of splenic Th9 cells and levels of serum IL-9 had similar developmental trends with the egg granulomas.CONCLUSION: The proliferation of Th9 cells and levels of IL-9 were significantly higher in S. japonicum-infected mice compared to NC. In addition, dynamic changes of Th9 and IL-9 were synchronous with the developmental trend of hepatic egg granulomatous inflammation, suggesting that Th9 cells might be a new subset in the pathogenesis of schistosomiasis.
Heterozygous GATA2 mutations underlie an array of complex hematopoietic and lymphatic diseases. Analysis of the literature reporting three recurrent GATA2 germline (g) mutations (gT354M, gR396Q and gR398W) revealed different phenotype tendencies. Although all three mutants differentially predispose to myeloid malignancies, there was no difference in leukemia-free survival for GATA2 patients. Despite intense interest, the molecular pathogenesis of GATA2 mutation is poorly understood. We functionally characterized a GATA2 mutant allelic series representing major disease phenotypes caused by germline and somatic (s) mutations in zinc finger 2 (ZF2). All GATA2 mutants, except for sL359V, displayed reduced DNA-binding affinity and transactivation compared with wild type (WT), which could be attributed to mutations of arginines critical for DNA binding or amino acids required for ZF2 domain structural integrity. Two GATA2 mutants (gT354M and gC373R) bound the key hematopoietic differentiation factor PU.1 more strongly than WT potentially perturbing differentiation via sequestration of PU.1. Unlike WT, all mutants failed to suppress colony formation and some mutants skewed cell fate to granulocytes, consistent with the monocytopenia phenotype seen in GATA2-related immunodeficiency disorders. These findings implicate perturbations of GATA2 function shaping the course of development of myeloid malignancy subtypes and strengthen complete or nearly complete haploinsufficiency for predisposition to lymphedema.
A genome-wide survival analysis of 14,406 Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases and 25,849 controls identified eight previously reported AD risk loci and 14 novel loci associated with age at onset. Linkage disequilibrium score regression of 220 cell types implicated the regulation of myeloid gene expression in AD risk. The minor allele of rs1057233 (G), within the previously reported CELF1 AD risk locus, showed association with delayed AD onset and lower expression of SPI1 in monocytes and macrophages. SPI1 encodes PU.1, a transcription factor critical for myeloid cell development and function. AD heritability was enriched within the PU.1 cistrome, implicating a myeloid PU.1 target gene network in AD. Finally, experimentally altered PU.1 levels affected the expression of mouse orthologs of many AD risk genes and the phagocytic activity of mouse microglial cells. Our results suggest that lower SPI1 expression reduces AD risk by regulating myeloid gene expression and cell function.
The ETS transcription factors play a critical role during hematopoiesis. In F-MuLV-induced erythroleukemia, Fli‑1 insertional activation producing high expression of this transcription factor required to promote proliferation. How deregulated Fli‑1 expression alters the balance between erythroid differentiation and proliferation is unknown. To address this issue, we exogenously overexpressed Fli‑1 in an erythroleukemic cell harboring activation of spi‑1/PU.1, another ETS gene involved in erythroleukemogenesis. While the proliferation in culture remains unaffected, Fli‑1 overexpression imparts morphological and immunohistochemical characteristics of immature erythroid progenitors. Fli‑1 overexpression in erythroleukemic cells increased the numbers of erythroid colonies on methylcellulose and reduced tumorigenicity as evidenced by increase latency of erythroleukemogenesis in mice inoculated with these cells. Although all transplanted mice developed enlargement of the spleen and liver due to leukemic infiltration, Fli‑1 overexpression altered the hematopoietic phenotype, significantly increasing the expression of regulatory hematopoietic genes cKIT, SCA-1, CD41 and CD71. In contrast, expression of Spi‑1/PU.1 in a Fli‑1 producing erythroleukemia cell line in which fli‑1 is activated, resulted in increased proliferation through activation of growth promoting proteins MAPK, AKT, cMYC and JAK2. Importantly, these progenitors express high levels of markers such as CD71 and TER119 associated with more mature erythroid cells. Thus, Fli‑1 overexpression induces a de-differentiation program by reverting CFU-E to BFU-E erythroid progenitor activity, while Spi‑1/PU.1 promoting maturation from BFU-E to CFU-E.
Spontaneous urticaria (SU) is characterized by immune deregulation of mast cells and T helper (Th) cells. Th9 cells, a subset of Th cells, serve a key role in initiating mast cell accumulation and activation. To understand the role of Th9 cells in the pathogenesis of SU, the authors conducted a control study of 28 patients with acute SU (ASU) and chronic SU (CSU) and 28 healthy controls. The percentage of Th9 cells in peripheral blood was assessed using flow cytometry and levels of Th9 related serum cytokines including interleukin (IL)-4, IL-9, IL-17A, IL-33, IL-1β and transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) using Luminex 200. ASU patients exhibited higher percentages of Th9 cells and increased serum levels of cytokines IL-9, IL-4 and TGF-β1 compared to healthy controls. In addition, high mRNA expression of the PU.1 transcription factor was observed in ASU patients. However, the percentage of Th9 cells was similar between patients with CSU and healthy controls. Furthermore, the percentage of Th9 cells demonstrated a positive correlation with IL-4 and IL-9 levels in the peripheral blood of ASU patients, but not with disease severity. The current findings suggested that the numbers of Th9 cells increased in ASU patients and indicated its novel role in the pathogenesis of ASU.
T-cell development from hematopoietic progenitors depends on multiple transcription factors, mobilized and modulated by intrathymic Notch signaling. Key aspects of T-cell specification network architecture have been illuminated through recent reports defining roles of transcription factors PU.1, GATA-3, and E2A, their interactions with Notch signaling, and roles of Runx1, TCF-1, and Hes1, providing bases for a comprehensively updated model of the T-cell specification gene regulatory network presented herein. However, the role of lineage commitment factor Bcl11b has been unclear. We use self-organizing maps on 63 RNA-seq datasets from normal and perturbed T-cell development to identify functional targets of Bcl11b during commitment and relate them to other regulomes. We show that both activation and repression target genes can be bound by Bcl11b in vivo, and that Bcl11b effects overlap with E2A-dependent effects. The newly clarified role of Bcl11b distinguishes discrete components of commitment, resolving how innate lymphoid, myeloid, and dendritic, and B-cell fate alternatives are excluded by different mechanisms.
Inflammation promotes the progression of alcoholic liver disease. Alcohol sensitizes KCs to gut-derived endotoxin (LPS); however, signaling pathways that perpetuate inflammation in alcoholic liver disease are only partially understood. We found that chronic alcohol feeding in mice induced miR-155, an inflammatory miRNA in isolated KCs. We hypothesized that miR-155 might increase the responsiveness of KCs to LPS via targeting the negative regulators of LPS signaling. Our results revealed that KCs that were isolated from alcohol-fed mice showed a decrease in IRAK-M, SHIP1, and PU.1, and an increase in TNF-α levels. This was specific to KCs, as no significant differences were observed in these genes in hepatocytes. We found a causal effect of miR-155 deficiency on LPS responsiveness, as KCs that were isolated from miR-155 KO mice showed a greater induction of IRAK-M, SHIP1, and suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 after LPS treatment. C/EBPβ, a validated miR-155 target, stimulates IL-10 transcription. We found a higher induction of C/EBPβ and IL-10 in KCs that were isolated from miR-155 KO mice after LPS treatment. Gain- and loss-of-function studies affirmed that alcohol-induced miR-155 directly regulates IRAK-M, SHIP1, suppressor of cytokine signaling 1, and C/EBPβ, as miR-155 inhibition increased and miR-155 overexpression decreased these genes in LPS or alcohol-pretreated wild-type KCs. HDAC11, a regulator of IL-10, was significantly increased and IL-10 was decreased in KCs that were isolated from alcohol-fed mice. Functionally, knockdown of HDAC11 with small interfering RNA resulted in an IL-10 increase in LPS or alcohol-pretreated Mϕ. We found that acetaldehyde and NF-κB pathways regulate HDAC11 levels. Collectively, our results indicate that the alcohol-induced responsiveness of KCs to LPS, in part, is governed by miR-155 and HDAC11.
Histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases (HDACs) are important epigenetic coregulators. It has been thought that HDACs associate with corepressor complexes and repress gene transcription; however, in this study, we have found that PU.1-a key master regulator for hematopoietic self-renewal and lineage specification-requires HDAC activity for gene activation. Deregulated PU.1 gene expression is linked to dysregulated hematopoiesis and the development of leukemia. In this study, we used erythroid differentiation as a model to analyze how the PU.1 gene is regulated. We found that active HDAC1 is directly recruited to active PU.1 promoter in progenitor cells, whereas acetylated HDAC1, which is inactive, is on the silenced PU.1 promoter in differentiated erythroid cells. We then studied the mechanism of HDAC1-mediated activation. We discovered that HDAC1 activates PU.1 gene transcription via deacetylation of TATA-binding protein-associated factor 9 (TAF9), a component in the transcription factor IID (TFIID) complex. Treatment with HDAC inhibitor results in an increase in TAF9 acetylation. Acetylated TAF9 does not bind to the PU.1 gene promoter and subsequently leads to the disassociation of the TFIID complex and transcription repression. Thus, these results demonstrate a key role for HDAC1 in PU.1 gene transcription and, more importantly, uncover a novel mechanism of TFIID recruitment and gene activation.-Jian, W., Yan, B., Huang, S., Qiu, Y. Histone deacetylase 1 activates PU.1 gene transcription through regulating TAF9 deacetylation and transcription factor IID assembly.
BACKGROUND: PU box-binding protein (PU.1) is a master gene of hematopoietic lineage and an important specific transcription factor in osteoclast lineage. There is proof of its expression in adipose tissue, and it is known to significantly and negatively affect adipogenesis. However, it is unclear whether there are any other molecules involved in this process.METHODS: We wished to explore the effect of PU.1's co-activator microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) on the adipogenic differentiation of ovine primary preadipocytes. The expression vectors pcDNA-MITF and pcDNA-PU.1, and MITF siRNA and PU.1 siRNA were transfected or co-transfected into ovine tail primary preadipocytes. Real-time PCR and western blot analysis were applied to investigate the expression levels of PU.1 and MITF. The morphologic changes in the cells were observed under a microscope at a magnification of × 200 after staining with Oil Red O. The triglyceride (TG) content in cells was also determined after transfection.RESULTS: MITF and its co-activator PU.1 synergistically exhibited an opposite expression pattern to that of CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein-β (C/EBPβ) during adipogenic differentiation of ovine primary preadipocytes. Before induction of differentiation, overexpression of MITF or PU.1 inhibited the expression of C/EBPβ and adipogenesis in the cells; and knockdown of MITF or PU.1 promoted the expression of C/EBPβ and adipogenesis in the cells. The inhibitory or promotive effect was enhanced when MITF and PU.1 were co-overexpressed or co-silenced. However, when MITF and/or PU.1 were overexpressed after day 2 of differentiation, no changes in adipogenesis of the cells were observed.CONCLUSIONS: MITF and its co-activator PU.1 inhibited adipogenesis of ovine primary preadipocytes by restraining C/EBPβ.
AIM: To evaluate the efficacy of intravenous high-dose pulses of methylprednisolone (IVPM) for treatment of ocular involvement in Behcet's disease (BD).METHOD: In a double-blind control study, we randomized BD patients with posterior uveitis (PU) and/or retinal vasculitis (RV) into two groups. They received either IVPM (1000 mg methylprednisolone) or placebo for 3 consecutive days. Both groups received combination therapy with IV cyclophosphamide, azathioprine and prednisolone for 6 months. Visual acuity (VA), Disease Activity Index (DAI) based on the inflammatory state of each section of each eye, total inflammatory (TIAI) and adjusted DAI (TADAI) for each patient were calculated. The comparisons were done by paired t- and Mann-Whitney U-test.RESULTS: Seventeen patients in each group completed the treatment. The mean VA improved from 0.5 to 0.8 (P < 0.000001) for the study and from 0.6 to 0.7 (P < 0.02) for the placebo group. The difference was significant (P = 0.01). The comparison showed no significant difference regarding DAI improvement in other items (P > 0.2): PU, 1.9 to 0.5 (P < 0.0006) versus 2.3 to 0.8 (P < 0.0002); RV: 4.0 to 1.1 (P < 0.0004) versus 3.1 to 1.1 (P < 0.0005); TIAI: 23 to 5.7 (P < 0.0002) versus 24.8 to 8.4 (P < 0.003); TADAI: 24.1 to 7.3 (P < 0.0002) versus 25.9 to 7.9 (P < 0.004). We had one flare in the study versus seven in the placebo group (P < 0.005).CONCLUSION: Adding high-dose intravenous steroid pulse therapy to conventional combination therapy for severe ocular lesions of BD may cause better improvement on VA and fewer flares during the first 6 months of treatment.
The duration of post-sepsis long-term immune suppression is poorly understood. Here, we focused on the role of monocytes (MO) as the pivotal cells for long-term regulation of post-sepsis milieu. Lost ability of MO to adapt is seen in several acute conditions, but it is unclear for how long MO aberrancy post-sepsis can persist. Interestingly, the positive feedback loop sustaining secretion of macrophage-colony stimulation factor (M-CSF) can persist even after resolution of sepsis and significantly alters performance of MO. Here, we investigated the activation of M-CSF, and it as critical regulator of PU.1 in mice surviving 28 days after sepsis. Our primary readout was the ability of MO to differentiate into dendritic cells (DCs; MO→iDC) in vitro since this is one of the critical processes regulating a successful transition from innate to acquired immunity. We utilized a survival modification of the cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model of sepsis in humanized mice. Animals were sacrificed 28 days after CLP (tCLP+28d). Untouched (CONTR) or sham-operated (SHAM) animals served as controls. Some animals received rescue from stem cells originally used for grafting 2 weeks after CLP. We found profound decrease of MO→iDC in the humanized mice 28 days after sepsis, demonstrated by depressed expression of CD1a, CD83, and CD209, diminished production of IL-12p70, and depressed ability to stimulate T cells in mice after CLP as compared to SHAM or CONTR. In vitro defect in MO→iDC was accompanied by in vivo decrease of BDCA-3+ endogenous circulating DC. Interestingly, post-CLP MO had persistent activation of M-CSF pathway, shown by exaggerated secretion of M-CSF, activation of PU.1, and demethylation of SPII. Neutralization of the M-CSF in vitro reversed the post-CLP MO→iDC aberration. Furthermore, transplantation of naïve, autologous stem cell-derived MO restored CLP-deteriorated ability of MO to become DC, measured as recovery of CD1a expression, enhanced production of IL-12p70, and ability of IL-4 and GM-CSF MO to stimulate allogeneic T cells. Our results suggest the role of epigenetic mediated M-CSF aberration in mediating post-sepsis immune system recovery.
Primary effusion lymphoma (PEL), which is an aggressive subgroup of B-cell lymphoma associated with Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpes virus/human herpes virus-8, is refractory to the standard treatment, and exhibits a poor survival. Although PU.1 is downregulated in PEL, the potential role of its reduction remains to be elucidated. In this investigation, we analyzed the DNA methylation of PU.1 cis-regulatory elements in PEL and the effect of restoring PU.1 on PEL cells. The mRNA level of PU.1 was downregulated in PEL cells. The methylated promoter and enhancer regions of the PU.1 gene were detected in PEL cells. Suppression of cell growth and apoptosis were caused by the restoration of PU.1 in PEL cells. A microarray analysis revealed that interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) including pro-apoptotic ISGs were strongly increased in BCBL-1 cells after the induction of PU.1. Reporter assays showed that PU.1 transactivated pro-apoptotic ISG promoters, such as the XAF1, OAS1 and TRAIL promoters. Mutations at the PU.1 binding sequences suppressed its transactivation. We confirmed the binding of PU.1 to the XAF1, OAS1 and TRAIL promoters in a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. PU.1 suppressed ORF57 activation by inducing IRF7. The reinduction of PU.1 reduced formation of ascites and lymphoma cell infiltration of distant organs in PEL xenograft model mice. Collectively, PU.1 has a role in tumor suppression in PEL and its down-regulation is associated with PEL development. Restoring PU.1 with demethylation agents may be a novel therapeutic approach for PEL.
IL-9-producing Th9 cell is a novel Th cell subset involved in type II allergic inflammations such as asthma. Th9 cells can be induced from naïve Th cells in the presence of IL-4 and TGF-β. It is also well established that downstream signals of IL-4 and TGF-β, including STAT6, IRF4, Smad, and PU.1, directly mediate IL-9 production in Th9 cells. In this chapter we describe the methods of flow cytometry, qPCR and western blot analysis to determine the expression or activation of these transcription factors downstream of IL-4 and TGF-β.
NRAMP1 (SLC11A1) is a professional phagocyte membrane importer of divalent metals that contributes to iron recycling at homeostasis and to nutritional immunity against infection. Analyses of data generated by several consortia and additional studies were integrated to hypothesize mechanisms restricting NRAMP1 expression to mature phagocytes. Results from various epigenetic and transcriptomic approaches were collected for mesodermal and hematopoietic cell types and compiled for combined analysis with results of genetic studies associating single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with variations in NRAMP1 expression (eQTLs). Analyses establish that NRAMP1 is part of an autonomous topologically associated domain delimited by ubiquitous CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) sites. NRAMP1 locus contains five regulatory regions: a predicted super-enhancer (S-E) key to phagocyte-specific expression; the proximal promoter; two intronic areas, including 3' inhibitory elements that restrict expression during development; and a block of upstream sites possibly extending the S-E domain. Also the downstream region adjacent to the 3' CTCF locus boundary may regulate expression during hematopoiesis. Mobilization of the locus 14 predicted transcriptional regulatory elements occurs in three steps, beginning with hematopoiesis; at the onset of myelopoiesis and through myelo-monocytic differentiation. Basal expression level in mature phagocytes is further influenced by genetic variation, tissue environment, and in response to infections that induce various epigenetic memories depending on microorganism nature. Constitutively associated transcription factors (TFs) include CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPb), purine rich DNA binding protein (PU.1), early growth response 2 (EGR2) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) while hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) and interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1) may stimulate iron acquisition in pro-inflammatory conditions. Mouse orthologous locus is generally conserved; chromatin patterns typify a de novo myelo-monocytic gene whose expression is tightly controlled by TFs Pu.1, C/ebps and Irf8; Irf3 and nuclear factor NF-kappa-B p 65 subunit (RelA) regulate expression in inflammatory conditions. Functional differences in the determinants identified at these orthologous loci imply that species-specific mechanisms control gene expression.
PURPOSE: PU.1 is an Ets family transcription factor, which is essential for the development of immune system through generation of myeloid and lymphoid lineages. In this study, we investigated PU.1 expression in the retina of mice with experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis (EAU) and the association between PU.1 expression level and inflammation in EAU.METHODS: IRBP 1-20 peptide-immunized mice were used. Quantitative PCR, ELISA analysis, cytometric bead array (CBA), assay and immunostaining were conducted using ocular tissues and lymph nodes.RESULTS: Quantitative PCR showed significant increases in mRNA levels of PU.1 in the retina at the peak of inflammation. Immunostaining of retina flat mounts revealed that most PU.1-positive cells were co-stained with anti-CD11c and anti-F4/80 antibodies. PU.1 knockdown in lymph node cells significantly suppressed IRBP-stimulated IFN-γ production measured by ELISA and IL-2 production measured by CBA.CONCLUSION: PU.1 may play crucial roles in the development and progression of inflammation in EAU.
Restricted availability of retinoic acid (RA) in the testicular milieu regulates transcriptional activity of c-kit (KIT, CD117), which aids in the determination of spermatogonial stem-cell differentiation. The effect of RA on c-kit has been reported previously, but its mode of genomic action remains unresolved. We studied the molecular machinery guiding RA responsiveness to the c-kit gene using spermatogonial stem-cell line C18-4 and primary spermatogonial cells. A novel retinoic acid response element (RARE) positioned at -989 nucleotides upstream of the transcription start site (TSS) was identified, providing a binding site for a dimeric RA receptor (i.e. retinoic acid receptor gamma (RARγ) and retinoic X receptor). RA treatment influenced c-kit promoter activity, along with endogenous c-kit expression in C18-4 cells. A comprehensive promoter deletion assay using the pGL3B reporter system characterised the region spanning -271bp and -1011bp upstream of the TSS, which function as minimal promoter and maximal promoter, respectively. In silico analysis predicted that the region -1011 to +58bp comprised the distal enhancer RARE and activators such as spleen focus forming virus proviral integration oncogene (SPFI1) (PU.1), specificity protein 1 (SP1) and four E26 transformation-specific (ETS) tandem binding sites at the proximal region. Gel retardation and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays showed binding for RARγ, PU.1 and SP1 to the predicted consensus binding sequences, whereas GABPα occupied only two out of four ETS binding sites within the c-kit promoter region. We propose that for RA response, an enhanceosome is orchestrated through scaffolding of a CREB-binding protein (CBP)/p300 molecule between RARE and elements in the proximal promoter region, controlling germ-line expression of the c-kit gene. This study outlines the fundamental role played by RARγ, along with other non-RAR transcription factors (PU.1, SP1 and GABPα), in the regulation of c-kit expression in spermatogonial stem cells in response to RA.
Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus) is one of the most common fungal pathogens of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA), which may be life threatening in immunocompromised individuals. The dendritic cell-associated C-type lectin receptor (Dectin-1), toll‑like receptor (TLR)-2 and TLR-4 are major pattern recognition receptors in alveolar macrophages that recognize A. fumigatus components. The PU.1 transcription factor is known to be important for the transcriptional control of these three receptors in mature macrophages. The present study investigated whether alterations of PU.1 expression may affect the innate defense against A. fumigatus in the human monocyte THP‑1 cell line. THP-1-derived macrophages were transduced with PU.1 adenoviral vectors and transfected with PU.1 small interfering RNA, and the mRNA and protein expression levels of Dectin‑1, TLR‑2 and TLR‑4 were measured. In addition, the levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)‑α and interleukin (IL)‑1β were ascertained, and fungal phagocytosis and killing were assessed. The results demonstrated that overexpression of PU.1 by recombinant adenoviral vectors resulted in a significant upregulation of Dectin‑1, TLR‑2 and TLR‑4 at the transcriptional and translational levels. In response to A. fumigatus stimulation, PU.1 overexpression increased TNF‑α and IL‑1β production. In addition, Dectin‑1, TLR‑2 and TLR‑4 upregulation may have enhanced the phagocytosis and killing ability of THP‑1‑derived macrophages. As expected, silencing of PU.1 led to downregulation of Dectin‑1, TLR‑2, TLR‑4 and the expression of pro‑inflammatory cytokines, as well as decreased phagocytosis and the killing ability of THP1‑derived macrophages. In conclusion, the results indicate that PU.1 may be a critical factor for the innate defense against A. fumigatus, and may therefore be a potential target for the prophylaxis and treatment of IPA.
The cytokine LT-related inducible ligand that competes for glycoprotein D binding to herpesvirus entry mediator on T cells (LIGHT) is a member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. It is expressed primarily on activated T lymphocytes, and detectable on monocytes, granulocytes, and immune dendritic cells. It mainly plays a role in immune regulation including T cell activation and dendritic cell maturation. We recently reported its role as an inducer in embryonic stem cell differentiation, but its role in regulation of adult stem cell has not been defined. In the present study, we examined the expression of LIGHT receptor in Lin- c-kit+ Sca-1+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSC/HPCs). We found that HSC express HVEM, a LIGHT receptor, on its surface. We further identified the role of LIGHT in promoting myeloid differentiation of HSCs driven by granulocyte-monocyte colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Further studies showed that LIGHT enhances both GM-CSF and GM-CSF receptor (GM-CSFR) expression in HSCs. LIGHT stimulation increases PU.1 expression in HSC/HPCs. In vivo administration of LIGHT increases the colony-forming unit-granulocyte/monocyte (CFU-GM) colony formation and plasma GM-CSF level. Altogether, the data suggest LIGHT promote myeloid differentiation of HSC/HPCs.
Oncogenes trigger replicative stress that can lead to genetic instability, which participates in cancer progression. Thus, determining how cells cope with replicative stress can help our understanding of oncogenesis and lead to the identification of new antitumor treatment targets. We previously showed that constitutive overexpression of the oncogenic transcription factor Spi1/PU.1 leads to pre-leukemic cells that have a shortened S phase duration with an increased replication fork speed and increased mutability in the absence of DNA breaks. Here, we demonstrate that the S phase checkpoint protein CHK1 is maintained in a low phosphorylation state in Spi1/PU.1-overexpressing cells and provide evidence that this is not due to negative control of its primary kinase ATR. Notably, we found that the expression of the CHK1 phosphatase PP1α is increased in Spi1/PU.1-overexpressing cells. By exogenously modulating its activity, we demonstrate that PP1α is required to maintain CHK1 in a dephosphorylated state and, more importantly, that it is responsible for the accelerated replication fork progression in Spi1/PU.1-overexpressing cells. These results identify a novel pathway by which an oncogene influences replication in the absence of DNA damage.
Cell differentiation is associated with changes in chromatin organization and gene expression. In this study, we examine chromatin structure following differentiation of the human myeloid leukemia cell line (HL-60/S4) into granulocytes with retinoic acid (RA) or into macrophage with phorbol ester (TPA). We performed ChIP-seq of histone H3 and its modifications, analyzing changes in nucleosome occupancy, nucleosome repeat length, eu-/heterochromatin redistribution and properties of epichromatin (surface chromatin adjacent to the nuclear envelope). Nucleosome positions changed genome-wide, exhibiting a specific class of alterations involving nucleosome loss in extended (∼1kb) regions, pronounced in enhancers and promoters. Genes that lost nucleosomes at their promoters showed a tendency to be upregulated. On the other hand, nucleosome gain did not show simple effects on transcript levels. The average genome-wide nucleosome repeat length (NRL) did not change significantly with differentiation. However, we detected an approximate 10 bp NRL decrease around the haematopoietic transcription factor (TF) PU.1 and the architectural protein CTCF, suggesting an effect on NRL proximal to TF binding sites. Nucleosome occupancy changed in regions associated with active promoters in differentiated cells, compared with untreated HL-60/S4 cells. Epichromatin regions revealed an increased GC content and high nucleosome density compared with surrounding chromatin. Epichromatin showed depletion of major histone modifications and revealed enrichment with PML body-associated genes. In general, chromatin changes during HL-60/S4 differentiation appeared to be more localized to regulatory regions, compared with genome-wide changes among diverse cell types studied elsewhere.
The role of chromatin structure in lineage commitment of multipotent hematopoietic progenitors (HPCs) is presently unclear. We show here that CD34+ HPCs possess a post-replicative chromatin globally devoid of the repressive histone mark H3K27me3. This H3K27-unmodified chromatin is required for recruitment of lineage-determining transcription factors (TFs) C/EBPα, PU.1, and GATA-1 to DNA just after DNA replication upon cytokine-induced myeloid or erythroid commitment. Blocking DNA replication or increasing H3K27me3 levels prevents recruitment of these TFs to DNA and suppresses cytokine-induced erythroid or myeloid differentiation. However, H3K27me3 is rapidly associated with nascent DNA in more primitive human and murine HPCs. Treatment of these cells with instructive cytokines leads to a significant delay in accumulation of H3K27me3 in nascent chromatin due to activity of the H3K27me3 demethylase UTX. Thus, HPCs utilize special mechanisms of chromatin modification for recruitment of specific TFs to DNA during early stages of lineage specification.
The transcription factor Meis1 drives myeloid leukemogenesis in the context of Hox gene overexpression but is currently considered undruggable. We therefore investigated whether myeloid progenitor cells transformed by Hoxa9 and Meis1 become addicted to targetable signaling pathways. A comprehensive (phospho)proteomic analysis revealed that Meis1 increased Syk protein expression and activity. Syk upregulation occurs through a Meis1-dependent feedback loop. By dissecting this loop, we show that Syk is a direct target of miR-146a, whose expression is indirectly regulated by Meis1 through the transcription factor PU.1. In the context of Hoxa9 overexpression, Syk signaling induces Meis1, recapitulating several leukemogenic features of Hoxa9/Meis1-driven leukemia. Finally, Syk inhibition disrupts the identified regulatory loop, prolonging survival of mice with Hoxa9/Meis1-driven leukemia.
MicroRNA-125b (miR-125b) has been reported to be upregulated in several kinds of leukemia, suggesting that miR-125b plays a role in Leukemia development. In this study, it was shown that miR-125b expression level decreased in response to 1α, 25-dihydroxy-vitamin D3 (1,25D3) in a dose- and time-dependent manner and miR-125b blocked 1,25D3-induced monocytic differentiation of U937 cells. In addition, miR-125b decreased mRNA expression of myelomonocytic differentiation markers, including CD11c, CD18 and CD64 and arrested the cell cycle at the S phase in U937 and HL60 cells. Fes was identified as a novel direct target of miR-125b and miR-125b could also reduce the expression levels of PU.1 and macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor (MCSFR). Furthermore, Fes was found to be involved in monocytic differentiation via upregulation of PU.1 and MCSFR and Fes siRNA could also inhibit 1,25D3-induced monocytic differentiation of U937 and HL60 cells and decrease mRNA expression of CD11c, CD18 and CD64. Importantly, the inhibition of Fes siRNA on 1,25D3-induced monocytic differentiation could be rescued by transfection with miR-125b inhibitor. Our data highlights an important role of miR-125b in AML progression, implying the potential application of miR-125b in AML therapy.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is the number one killer in developed countries, and currently considered a chronic inflammatory disease. The central role of T cells in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis is well documented. However, little is known about the newly described T cell subset-Th9 cells and their role in AS pathogenesis. Here, the amounts of Th9 cells as well as their key transcription factors and relevant cytokines during atherosclerosis were assessed in ApoE-/- mice and age-matched C57BL/6J mice. Significantly increased Th9 cell number, Th9 related cytokine (IL-9), and key transcription factor (PU.1) were found in ApoE-/- mice compared with age-matched C57BL/6J mice. Additionally, treatment with rIL-9 accelerated atherosclerotic development, which was attenuated by anti-IL-9 antibodies. These data suggested that both Th9 cells and related IL-9 play key roles in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, and antibodies against these antigens offer a novel therapeutic approach in AS treatment.
The α7 subtype of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7 nAChR) plays an essential role in the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway that regulates macrophage/microglia function in inflammation. Similar to M1 and M2 macrophages, M1 and M2 microglia exhibit pro-inflammation and anti-inflammation properties, respectively. In the present study, we analyzed function-associated phenotypes to detect the transformation of microglia with activation of α7 nAChRs. We used lentivirus-mediated shRNA to knockdown the expression of α7 nAChR in BV-2 microglia incubated with lipopolysaccharides (LPS, 0.1 μg/mL) and measured the acetylcholine (Ach, 1 μg/mL)-mediated release of cytokines, such as IL-1β, IL-4, IL-6, and IL-10, in the culture supernatant via radioimmunoassay. After stimulation with Ach, the expression of typical biomarkers for different microglia phenotypes, Iba-1 and Arg-1, was determined by cellular immunofluorescence. Furthermore, the expression of signaling molecules, including p38, JAK2/STAT3, PI3K/Akt and miR-124, was analyzed via western blotting and real-time PCR. We found that Ach inhibited LPS-induced IL-1β and IL-6 elevation and promoted IL-4 and IL-10 production and that knockdown of the α7 nAChR abolished these effects of Ach. In addition, Ach decreased LPS-induced Iba-1 expression and increased Arg-1 levels in an α7 nAChR-dependent manner. The LPS-inhibited activation of JAK2/STAT3 and PI3K/Akt was also rescued by Ach, an effect that was blocked by knockdown of the α7 nAChR. In contrast, Ach triggered the phosphorylation of JAK2 and STAT3 that was otherwise inactivated by LPS in BV-2 cells. Finally, the levels of miR-124 and downstream targets C/EBPα and PU.1 were significantly enhanced in LPS-treated BV-2 microglia, and the effect of Ach on this signaling pathway was blocked by α7 nAChR knockdown as expected. Overall, our data demonstrate that activation ofα7 nAChRs inhibits the transformation of M1 microglia and promotes the M2 phenotype, contributing to the modulation of vagus nerve neuroinflammation during several central nervous system diseases.
In response to infection and injury, the neutrophil population rapidly expands and then quickly re-establishes the basal state when inflammation resolves. The exact pathways governing neutrophil/macrophage lineage outputs from a common granulocyte-macrophage progenitor are still not completely understood. From a forward genetic screen in zebrafish, we identify the transcriptional repressor, ZBTB11, as critical for basal and emergency granulopoiesis. ZBTB11 sits in a pathway directly downstream of master myeloid regulators including PU.1, and TP53 is one direct ZBTB11 transcriptional target. TP53 repression is dependent on ZBTB11 cys116, which is a functionally critical, metal ion-coordinating residue within a novel viral integrase-like zinc finger domain. To our knowledge, this is the first description of a function for this domain in a cellular protein. We demonstrate that the PU.1-ZBTB11-TP53 pathway is conserved from fish to mammals. Finally, Zbtb11 mutant rescue experiments point to a ZBTB11-regulated TP53 requirement in development of other organs.
The glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (GILZ) gene is a pivotal mediator of the anti-inflammatory effects of glucocorticoids (GCs) that are known to regulate the function of both adaptive and innate immunity cells. Our aim was to investigate the role of GILZ in GC-induced inhibition of neutrophil migration, as this role has not been investigated before. We found that GILZ expression was induced by dexamethasone (DEX), a synthetic GC, in neutrophils, and that it regulated migration of these cells into inflamed tissues under DEX treatment. Of note, inhibition of neutrophil migration was not observed in GILZ-knockout mice with peritonitis that were treated by DEX. This was because DEX was unable to up-regulate annexin A1 (Anxa1) expression in the absence of GILZ. Furthermore, we showed that GILZ mediates Anxa1 induction by GCs by transactivating Anxa1 expression at the promoter level via binding with the transcription factor, PU.1. The present findings shed light on the role of GILZ in the mechanism of induction of Anxa1 by GCs. As Anxa1 is an important protein for the resolution of inflammatory response, GILZ may represent a new pharmacologic target for treatment of inflammatory diseases.-Ricci, E., Ronchetti, S., Pericolini, E., Gabrielli, E., Cari, L., Gentili, M., Roselletti, E., Migliorati, G., Vecchiarelli, A., Riccardi, C. Role of the glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper gene in dexamethasone-induced inhibition of mouse neutrophil migration via control of annexin A1 expression.
The blood-red plutonocene complex Pu(1,3-COT'')(1,4-COT'') (4; COT''=η8 -bis(trimethylsilyl)cyclooctatetraenyl) has been synthesized by oxidation of the anionic sandwich complex Li[Pu(1,4-COT'')2 ] (3) with anhydrous cobalt(II) chloride. The first crystal structure determination of an organoplutonium(IV) complex revealed an asymmetric sandwich structure for 4 where one COT'' ring is 1,3-substituted while the other retains the original 1,4-substitution pattern. The electronic structure of 4 has been elucidated by a computational study, revealing a probable cause for the unexpected silyl group migration.
Comment in    Cell Death Differ. 2017 Jun;24(6):953-954.    Nat Immunol. 2017 May 18;18(6):597-598.
The hematopoietic Ets-domain transcription factor PU.1/SPI1 orchestrates myeloid, B- and T-cell development, and also supports hematopoietic stem cell maintenance. Although PU.1 is a renowned tumor suppressor in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), a disease characterized by an accumulation of immature blast cells, comprehensive studies analyzing the role of PU.1 during cell death responses in AML treatment are missing. Modulating PU.1 expression in AML cells, we found that PU.1 supports tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)-mediated apoptosis via two mechanisms: (a) by repressing NF-κB activity via a novel direct PU.1-RelA/p65 protein-protein interaction, and (b) by directly inducing TRAIL receptor DR5 expression. Thus, expression of NF-κB-regulated antiapoptotic genes was sustained in PU.1-depleted AML cells upon TRAIL treatment and DR5 levels were decreased. Last, PU.1 deficiency significantly increased AML cell resistance to anthracycline treatment. Altogether, these results reveal a new facet of PU.1's tumor suppressor function during antileukemic therapies.
We previously demonstrated that PU.1 expression is down-regulated in the majority of myeloma cell lines and primary myeloma cells from patients. We introduced the tet-off system into the human myeloma cell lines U266 and KMS12PE that conditionally express PU.1 and demonstrated that PU.1 induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in myeloma cells in vitro. Here, we established a mouse xenograft model of myeloma using these cell lines to analyze the effects of PU.1 on the phenotype of myeloma cells in vivo. When doxycycline was added to the drinking water of mice engrafted with these myeloma cells, all mice had continuous growth of subcutaneous tumors and could not survived more than 65 days. In contrast, mice that were not exposed to doxycycline did not develop subcutaneous tumors and survived for at least 100 days. We next generated mice engrafted with subcutaneous tumors 5-10 mm in diameter that were induced by exposure to doxycycline. Half of the mice stopped taking doxycycline-containing water, whereas the other half kept taking the water. Although the tumors in the mice taking doxycycline continued to grow, tumor growth in the mice not taking doxycycline was significantly suppressed. The myeloma cells in the tumors of the mice not taking doxycycline expressed PU.1 and TRAIL and many of such cells were apoptotic. Moreover, the expression of a cell proliferation marker Ki67 was significantly decreased in tumors from the mice not taking doxycycline, compared with that of tumors from the mice continuously taking doxycycline. The present data strongly suggest that PU.1 functions as a tumor suppressor of myeloma cells in vivo.
PU.1 is a hematopoietic cell-specific transcription factor belonging to the Ets family, which plays an important role in the development of dendritic cells (DCs). CD11c (encoded by Itgax) is well established as a characteristic marker of hematopoietic lineages including DCs. In the present study, we analyzed the role of PU.1 (encoded by Spi-1) in the expression of CD11c. When small interfering RNA (siRNA) for Spi-1 was introduced into bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs), the mRNA level and cell surface expression of CD11c were dramatically reduced. Using reporter assays, the TTCC sequence at -56/-53 was identified to be critical for PU.1-mediated activation of the promoter. An EMSA showed that PU.1 directly bound to this region. ChIP assays demonstrated that a significant amount of PU.1 bound to this region on chromosomal DNA in BMDCs, which was decreased in LPS-stimulated BMDCs in accordance with the reduced levels of mRNAs of Itgax and Spi-1, and the histone acetylation degree. Enforced expression of exogenous PU.1 induced the expression of the CD11c protein on the cell surface of mast cells, whereas control transfectants rarely expressed CD11c. Quantitative RT-PCR also showed that the expression of a transcription factor Irf4, which is a partner molecule of PU.1, was reduced in PU.1-knocked down BMDCs. IRF4 transactivated the Itgax gene in a synergistic manner with PU.1. Taken together, these results indicate that PU.1 functions as a positive regulator of CD11c gene expression by directly binding to the Itgax promoter and through transactivation of the Irf4 gene.
Mural cells (pericytes and vascular smooth muscle cells) are essential for the regulation of vascular networks and maintenance of vascular integrity, but their origins are diverse in different tissues and not known in the organs that arise from the ectoderm, such as skin. Here, we show that tissue-localized myeloid progenitors contribute to pericyte development in embryonic skin vasculature. A series of in vivo fate-mapping experiments indicates that tissue myeloid progenitors differentiate into pericytes. Furthermore, depletion of tissue myeloid cells and their progenitors in PU.1 (also known as Spi1) mutants results in defective pericyte development. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS)-isolated myeloid cells and their progenitors from embryonic skin differentiate into pericytes in culture. At the molecular level, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) induces pericyte differentiation in culture. Furthermore, type 2 TGF-β receptor (Tgfbr2) mutants exhibit deficient pericyte development in skin vasculature. Combined, these data suggest that pericytes differentiate from tissue myeloid progenitors in the skin vasculature through TGF-β signaling.
Comment in    Blood. 2017 Jun 8;129(23 ):3046-3047.
The molecular endocrinology of vitamin D is based on the facts that i) its metabolite 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) is the high affinity ligand of the nuclear receptor vitamin D receptor (VDR) and ii) the transcription factor VDR is the unique target of 1,25(OH)2D3 in the nucleus. Short-term alterations of the epigenome are primarily changes in the post-translational modification status of nucleosome-forming histone proteins, the consequences of which are i) a local increase or decrease in chromatin accessibility and ii) the activation or repression of gene transcription. Vitamin D has via VDR a direct effect on the expression of several hundred primary target genes implying numerous effects on the epigenome. Next-generation sequencing methods, such as ChIP-seq and FAIRE-seq, were applied to cellular model systems of vitamin D signaling, such as THP-1 human monocytes, and provided data for a chromatin model of vitamin D signaling. Key points of this model are that i) in the absence of ligand VDR binds to a limited number of loci within accessible chromatin, ii) a stimulation with ligand increases the number of DNA-bound VDR molecules, iii) VDR's access to genomic DNA is supported by pioneer factors, such as PU.1 in monocytes, iv) VDR binding leads to local opening of chromatin and v) the binding strength of topologically associating domain anchor forming CCCTC-binding factor sites upstream and downstream of prominent VDR binding sites is changing in response to ligand stimulation. This model provides the present basis of the molecular endocrinology of vitamin D and will be in future refined by the integration of vitamin D-sensitive chromatin markers and other genome-wide data, such as the 1,25(OH)2D3-sensitive binding of co-factors, chromatin modifying enzymes and chromatin remodeling proteins.
Excessive inflammatory responses play important roles in the aggravation of secondary damage to an injured spinal cord. Dexmedetomidine (DEX), a selective α2-adrenoceptor agonist, has recently been implied to be neuroprotective in clinical anesthesia, but the underlying mechanism is elusive. As signaling through Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and nicotinic receptors (nAChRs, notably α7nAChR) play important roles in the pro- and anti-inflammation systems in the central nervous system, respectively, this study investigated whether and how they were modulated by DEX pretreatment in a rat model of spinal cord compression. The model was used to mimic perioperative compressive spinal cord injury (SCI) during spinal correction. DEX preconditioning improved locomotor scores after SCI, which was accompanied by increased α7nAChR and acetylcholine (Ach, an endogenous ligand of α7nAChR) expression as well as PI3K/Akt activation. However, there was a decrease in Ly6h (a negative regulator for α7nAChR trafficking), TLR4, PU.1 (a critical transcriptional regulator of TLR4), HMGB1 (an endogenous ligand of TLR4), and caspase 3-positive cells, which was prevented by intrathecal preconditioning with antagonists of either α2R, α7nAChR or PI3K/Akt. In addition, application of an α7nAChR agonist produced effects similar to those of DEX after SCI, while application of an α7nAChR antagonist reversed these effects. Furthermore, both α7nAChR and TLR4 were mainly co-expressed in NeuN-positive cells of the spinal ventral horn, but not in microglia or astrocytes after SCI. These findings imply that the α2R/PI3K/Akt/Ly6h and α7nAChR/PI3K/Akt/PU.1 cascades are required for upregulated α7nAChR and downregulated TLR4 expression by DEX pretreatment, respectively, which provided a unique insight into understanding DEX-mediated neuroprotection.
The ETS family of transcription factors is a functionally heterogeneous group of gene regulators that share a structurally conserved, eponymous DNA-binding domain. DNA target specificity derives from combinatorial interactions with other proteins as well as intrinsic heterogeneity among ETS domains. Emerging evidence suggests molecular hydration as a fundamental feature that defines the intrinsic heterogeneity in DNA target selection and susceptibility to epigenetic DNA modification. This perspective invokes novel hypotheses in the regulation of ETS proteins in physiologic osmotic stress, their pioneering potential in heterochromatin, and the effects of passive and pharmacologic DNA demethylation on ETS regulation.
Enhancers are regulatory elements in genomic DNA that contain specific sequence motifs that are bound by DNA-binding transcription factors. The activity of enhancers is tightly regulated in an integrated and combinatorial manner, thus yielding complex patterns of transcription in different tissues. Identifying enhancers is crucial to understanding the physiological and pathogenic roles of their target genes. The RUNX1 intronic enhancer, eR1, acts in cis to regulate RUNX1 gene expression in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and hemogenic endothelial cells. RUNX1 and other hematopoietic transcription factors TAL1/SCL, GATA2, PU.1, LMO2 and LDB1 bind at this region. Interestingly, recent studies have revealed that this region is involved in a large cluster of enhancers termed a super-enhancer. The RUNX1 super-enhancer is observed in normal HSCs and T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. In this review, we describe the discovery of eR1 and its roles in normal development and leukemogenesis, as well as its potential applications in stem cell research.
The ETS family of transcription factors is a functionally heterogeneous group of gene regulators that share a structurally conserved, eponymous DNA-binding domain. Unlike other ETS homologues, such as Ets-1, DNA recognition by PU.1 is highly sensitive to its osmotic environment due to excess interfacial hydration in the complex. To investigate interfacial hydration in the two homologues, we mutated a conserved tyrosine residue, which is exclusively engaged in coordinating a well-defined water contact between the protein and DNA among ETS proteins, to phenylalanine. The loss of this water-mediated contact blunted the osmotic sensitivity of PU.1/DNA binding, but did not alter binding under normo-osmotic conditions, suggesting that PU.1 has evolved to maximize osmotic sensitivity. The homologous mutation in Ets-1, which was minimally sensitive to osmotic stress due to a sparsely hydrated interface, reduced DNA-binding affinity at normal osmolality but the complex became stabilized by osmotic stress. Molecular dynamics simulations of wildtype and mutant PU.1 and Ets-1 in their free and DNA-bound states, which recapitulated experimental features of the proteins, showed that abrogation of this tyrosine-mediated water contact perturbed the Ets-1/DNA complex not through disruption of interfacial hydration, but by inhibiting local dynamics induced specifically in the bound state. Thus, a configurationally identical water-mediated contact plays mechanistically distinct roles in mediating DNA recognition by structurally homologous ETS transcription factors.
PURPOSE: Interleukin (IL)-9 induces allergic responses; however, the roles of anti-IL-9 antibody in the induction of tolerance remain unclear. This study investigated the effects of anti-IL-9 antibody on oral tolerance (OT) in a mouse model of allergic rhinitis (AR).METHODS: BALB/c mice were divided into 4 groups: the control, AR, OT, and OT with anti-IL-9 antibody (OT+IL9AB) groups. Ovalbumin (OVA) was used for sensitization and challenge. Mice in the OT and OT+IL9AB groups were fed OVA for immunotherapy. During immunotherapy, OT+IL9AB mice were injected with anti-IL-9 antibody. Allergic symptoms, tissue eosinophil counts, and serum OVA-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) were measured. The mRNA expressions of cytokines and transcription factors of T cells of nasal mucosa were determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The protein levels of GATA3, ROR-γt, and Foxp3 in nasal mucosa were determined by Western blot. CD4⁺CD25⁺Foxp3⁺ T cells in the spleen were analyzed by flow cytometry.RESULTS: Administration of anti-IL-9 antibody decreased allergic symptoms, OVA-specific IgE levels, and eosinophil counts. In addition, it inhibited T-helper (Th) 2 responses, but had no effect on Th1 responses. Protein levels of ROR-γt and mRNA levels of PU.1 and ROR-γt were reduced by anti-IL-9 antibody. Anti-IL-9 antibody increased Foxp3 and IL-10 mRNA expression, Foxp3 protein, and induction of CD4⁺CD25⁺Foxp3⁺ T cells.CONCLUSIONS: Anti-IL-9 antibody decreased allergic inflammation through suppression of Th2 and Th17 cells. Anti-IL-9 antibody enhanced the tolerogenic effects of regulatory T cells. These results suggest that anti-IL-9 antibody might represent a potential therapeutic agent for allergen immunotherapy in patients with uncontrolled allergic airway disease.
Author information:(1)Department of Immunology, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China; Tissue Engineering and Stem Cell Research Center, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China.(2)Department of Immunology, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China.(3)Clinical Medical Research Center, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China.(4)Tissue Engineering and Stem Cell Research Center, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China; Children Medical Center, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China. hzx@gmc.edu.cn.(5)Department of Immunology, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China; Tissue Engineering and Stem Cell Research Center, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China; Laboratory Animal Center, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550004, China. gyslp456@gmc.edu.cn.
The ETS-domain transcription factor PU.1 acts as a pioneer factor for other transcription factors including nuclear receptors. In this study, we report that in THP-1 human monocytes the PU.1 cistrome comprises 122,319 genomic sites. Interestingly, at 6498 (5.3%) of these loci PU.1 binding was significantly modulated by the vitamin D receptor (VDR) ligand 1α,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3). In most cases 1,25(OH)2D3 increased PU.1 association, which correlated strongly with VDR co-location and overlap ratios for canonical DR3-type VDR binding sites. Genome-wide 6488 sites associating both with PU.1 and VDR as well as 5649 non-VDR overlapping, 1,25(OH)2D3-sensitive PU.1 loci represent the PU.1-VDR crosstalk and can be described by four gene regulatory scenarios, each. Chromatin accessibility was the major discriminator between these models. The location of the PU.1 binding loci in open chromatin coincided with a significantly smaller mean distance to the closest 1,25(OH)2D3 target gene. PU.1 knockdown indicated that the pioneer factor is relevant for the transcriptional activation of 1,25(OH)2D3 target genes but its impact differed in magnitude and orientation. In conclusion, PU.1 is an important modulator of VDR signaling in monocytes, including but also exceeding its role as a pioneer factor, but we found no evidence for a direct interaction of both proteins.
BACKGROUND: The role of immunological factors in atopic dermatitis (AD) pathogenesis is well established. T-helper (TH) cells are central in AD pathogenesis. A relatively new subset of T cells, Th9 cells, was shown to be involved in the development of allergic asthma and allergic rhinitis, while its role in AD is still to be investigated. This study aimed to measure gene expression levels of interleukin-9 (IL-9) and PU.1, and to examine relationships with disease severity, serum IgE, and eruption types in AD patients.METHODS: The study enrolled 30 AD patients, 30 psoriasis patients, and 30 healthy subjects. The severity of AD was assessed using the SCORAD index. IL-9 and PU.1 expressions were measured by using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR). Serum IgE was measured by IgE (human) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) Kit.RESULTS: IL-9 and PU.1 gene expressions were significantly higher in AD patients than in controls (P1 = 0.007, P2 < 0.001, respectively). In the atopic dermatitis patients, expression of IL-9 and PU.1 were significantly positively correlated with SCORAD index (P1 = 0.004, P2 = 0.002) and clinically with erythema and edema scores. IL-9 and PU.1 expressions were positively significantly correlated (P = 0.005) and positively correlated with serum IgE in the AD group (P1 = 0.017, P2 = 0.023). No significant difference was noted between AD patients with or without histories of other atopies regarding expression levels of IL-9 and PU.1 (P1 = 0.677, P2 = 0.135).CONCLUSIONS: PU.1 and IL-9 may play a role in AD pathogenesis and relate to disease severity and clinical eruption types.
During macrophage development, myeloid progenitor cells undergo terminal differentiation coordinated with reduced cell cycle progression. Differentiation of macrophages from myeloid progenitors is accompanied by increased expression of the E26 transformation-specific transcription factor PU.1. Reduced PU.1 expression leads to increased proliferation and impaired differentiation of myeloid progenitor cells. It is not understood how PU.1 coordinates macrophage differentiation with reduced cell cycle progression. In this study, we utilized cultured PU.1-inducible myeloid cells to perform genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis coupled with gene expression analysis to determine targets of PU.1 that may be involved in regulating cell cycle progression. We found that genes encoding cell cycle regulators and enzymes involved in lipid anabolism were directly and inducibly bound by PU.1 although their steady-state mRNA transcript levels were reduced. Inhibition of lipid anabolism was sufficient to reduce cell cycle progression in these cells. Induction of PU.1 reduced expression of E2f1, an important activator of genes involved in cell cycle and lipid anabolism, indirectly through microRNA 223. Next-generation sequencing identified microRNAs validated as targeting cell cycle and lipid anabolism for downregulation. These results suggest that PU.1 coordinates cell cycle progression with differentiation through induction of microRNAs targeting cell cycle regulators and lipid anabolism.
BACKGROUND: Wogonin is an encouraging choice for clinical use owing to its potent anti-tumor and anti-inflammatory effects with the high safety profile. However, wogonin for targeted therapy of lymphoma was not well addressed. In this study, we focused on its anticancer effect alongside with the underlying mechanisms for targeted therapy in EBV-positive lymphoma. This will facilitate its introduction to clinical use, which is planned in the near future.METHODS: Cell proliferation was studied by CCK8. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the apoptosis and the cycle arrest of cells. Further, we also used immunofluorescent staining to detect the morphologic changes of the apoptotic cells. The expression of LMP1/miR-155/p65/pp65/PU.1 was evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and western blot, while that of NF-κB was analyzed by EMSA. At last, immunohistochemical staining was applied to assess the expression of target proteins and relevant molecules.RESULTS: In vitro, wogonin induced the apoptosis of Raji cells by downregulating the expression of NF-κB through LMP1/miR-155/NF-κB/PU.1 pathway, which was in a dose and time-dependent manner. In vivo, wogonin could suppress tumor growth, associated with the downregulation of ki67, p65 and upregulation of PU.1.CONCLUSIONS: Wogonin could suppress tumor growth and induce cell apoptosis by inhibiting the expression of NF-κB. Taken these findings, we concluded that wogonin could be a potential targeted therapeutic agent for EBV-positive lymphoma with the expression of LMP1 through the pathway of LMP1/NF-κB/miR-155/PU.1.
BACKGROUND: Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) databases represent a valuable resource to link disease-associated SNPs to specific candidate genes whose gene expression is significantly modulated by the SNP under investigation. We previously identified signal inhibitory receptor on leukocytes-1 (SIRL-1) as a powerful regulator of human innate immune cell function. While it is constitutively high expressed on neutrophils, on monocytes the SIRL-1 surface expression varies strongly between individuals. The underlying mechanism of regulation, its genetic control as well as potential clinical implications had not been explored yet.METHODS: Whole blood eQTL data of a Chinese cohort was used to identify SNPs regulating the expression of VSTM1, the gene encoding SIRL-1. The genotype effect was validated by flow cytometry (cell surface expression), correlated with electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and bisulfite sequencing (C-methylation) and its functional impact studied the inhibition of reactive oxygen species (ROS).RESULTS: We found a significant association of a single CpG-SNP, rs612529T/C, located in the promoter of VSTM1. Through flow cytometry analysis we confirmed that primarily in the monocytes the protein level of SIRL-1 is strongly associated with genotype of this SNP. In monocytes, the T allele of this SNP facilitates binding of the transcription factors YY1 and PU.1, of which the latter has been recently shown to act as docking site for modifiers of DNA methylation. In line with this notion rs612529T associates with a complete demethylation of the VSTM1 promoter correlating with the allele-specific upregulation of SIRL-1 expression. In monocytes, this upregulation strongly impacts the IgA-induced production of ROS by these cells. Through targeted association analysis we found a significant Meta P value of 1.14 × 10-6 for rs612529 for association to atopic dermatitis (AD).CONCLUSION: Low expression of SIRL-1 on monocytes is associated with an increased risk for the manifestation of an inflammatory skin disease. It thus underlines the role of both the cell subset and this inhibitory immune receptor in maintaining immune homeostasis in the skin. Notably, the genetic regulation is achieved by a single CpG-SNP, which controls the overall methylation state of the promoter gene segment.
Plutonium is extensively studied in radioecology (e.g., soil to plant transfer and radiological assessment) and geochemistry (e.g., sediment dating). Here, we reported a new chemical separation method for rapid determination of Pu in soil and sediment samples, based on the following investigations: extraction behaviors of interfering elements (IEs, for inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) measurement) on TEVA resin; decontamination of U using TEVA, UTEVA, and DGA resins; and the impact of coprecipitation on Pu determination. The developed method consists of four steps: HNO3 leaching for Pu release; CaF2/LaF3 coprecipitation for the removal of major metals and U; the proposed TEVA + UTEVA + DGA procedure for the removal of U, Pb, Bi, Tl, Hg, Hf, Pt, and Dy; and ICPMS measurement. The accuracy of this method in determining 239+240Pu activity and 240Pu/239Pu and 241Pu/239Pu isotopic ratios was validated by analyzing five standard reference materials (soil, fresh water sediment, and ocean sediment). This method is characterized by its stable and high Pu recovery (90-97% for soil; 92-98% for sediment) and high decontamination factor of U (1.6 × 107), which is the highest reported for soil and sediment samples. In addition, the short analytical time of 12 h and the method detection limits, which are the lowest yet reported in literature, of 0.56 μBq g-1 (0.24 fg g-1) for 239Pu, 1.2 μBq g-1 (0.14 fg g-1) for 240Pu, and 0.34 mBq g-1 (0.09 fg g-1) for 241Pu (calculated on the basis of a 1 g soil sample) allow the rapid determination of ultratrace level Pu in soil and sediment samples.
The transcription factor GATA-1-interacting protein Friend of GATA-1 (FOG1) is essential for proper transcriptional activation and repression of GATA-1 target genes; yet, the mechanisms by which FOG1 exerts its activating and repressing functions remain unknown. Forced FOG1 expression in human K562 erythroleukemia cells induced the expression of erythroid genes (SLC4A1, globins) but repressed that of GATA-2 and PU.1. A quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis demonstrated increased GATA-1 chromatin occupancy at both FOG1-activated as well as FOG1-repressed gene loci. However, while TAL1 chromatin occupancy was significantly increased at FOG1-activated gene loci, it was significantly decreased at FOG1-repressed gene loci. When FOG1 was overexpressed in TAL1-knocked down K562 cells, FOG1-mediated activation of HBA, HBG, and SLC4A1 was significantly compromised by TAL1 knockdown, suggesting that FOG1 may require TAL1 to activate GATA-1 target genes. Promoter analysis and quantitative ChIP analysis demonstrated that FOG1-mediated transcriptional repression of PU.1 would be mediated through a GATA-binding element located at its promoter, accompanied by significantly decreased H3 acetylation at lysine 4 and 9 (K4 and K9) as well as H3K4 trimethylation. Our results provide important mechanistic insight into the role of FOG1 in the regulation of GATA-1-regulated genes and suggest that FOG1 has an important role in inducing cells to differentiate toward the erythroid lineage rather than the myelo-lymphoid one by repressing the expression of PU.1.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) emerge during development via an endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition from hemogenic endothelium of the dorsal aorta (DA). Using in situ hybridization and analysis of a knock-in RedStar reporter, we show that the transcriptional regulator Hhex is expressed in endothelium of the dorsal aorta (DA) and in clusters of putative HSCs as they are specified during murine development. We exploited this observation, using the Hhex locus to define cis regulatory elements, enhancers and interacting transcription factors that are both necessary and sufficient to support gene expression in the emerging HSC. We identify an evolutionarily conserved non-coding region (ECR) in the Hhex locus with the capacity to bind the hematopoietic-affiliated transcriptional regulators Gata2, SCL, Fli1, Pu.1 and Ets1/2. This region is sufficient to drive the expression of a transgenic GFP reporter in the DA endothelium and intra-aortic hematopoietic clusters. GFP-positive AGM cells co-expressed HSC-associated markers c-Kit, CD34, VE-Cadherin, and CD45, and were capable of multipotential differentiation and long term engraftment when transplanted into myelo-ablated recipients. The Hhex ECR was also sufficient to drive expression at additional blood sites including the yolk sac blood islands, fetal liver, vitelline and umbilical arteries and the adult bone marrow, suggesting a common mechanism for Hhex regulation throughout ontogenesis of the blood system. To explore the physiological requirement for the Hhex ECR region during hematoendothelial development, we deleted the ECR element from the endogenous locus in the context of a targeted Hhex-RedStar reporter allele. Results indicate a specific requirement for the ECR in blood-associated Hhex expression during development and further demonstrate a requirement for this region in the adult HSC compartment. Taken together, our results identified the ECR region as an enhancer both necessary and sufficient for gene expression in HSC development and homeostasis. The Hhex ECR thus appears to be a core node for the convergence of the transcription factor network that governs the emergence of HSCs.
A novel independent Th-cell subset, characterized by high expression of interleukin (IL)-9, has been recognized as the "Th9" subset. Although Th9 cells are important in many diseases, their contribution to allergic rhinitis (AR) remains unclear. We therefore first determined whether Th9 cells were present in a mouse model of AR. We then investigated the their involvement in the distribution of CD4+ T-cell subsets and the symptoms of AR by treating mice with anti-IL-9 antibodies (Abs). Anti-IL-9 Abs were administered intranasally during rechallenge of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced AR in BALB/c mice. We measured nasal rubbing motion, sneezing and eosinophils, as well as the Th1 (Th1 cell percentage, Ifn-γ mRNA/protein, T-bet mRNA), Th2 (Th2 cell percentage, Il-4 mRNA/protein, Gata3 mRNA), Th9 (Th9 cell percentages Il-9 mRNA/protein, PU.1 and Irf4 mRNA), Th17 (Th17 cell percentage, Il-17 mRNA/protein, Rorγt mRNA), and Treg (Treg cell percentage, Foxp3 mRNA) responses in the nasal mucosa. Treatment with anti-IL-9 Abs markedly reduced nasal rubbing, sneezing, eosinophil infiltration, and Th2, Th9, and Th17 responses, and increased the Treg response. Our findings emphasize the importance of IL-9/Th9 in the pathogenesis of AR, and suggest that anti-IL-9 Ab treatment may be an effective therapeutic strategy for AR.
BACKGROUND: Canthin-6-one is a natural product isolated from various plant genera and from fungi with potential antitumor activity. In the present study, we evaluate the antitumor effects of canthin-6-one in human myeloid leukemia lineages.METHODS: Kasumi-1 lineage was used as a model for acute myeloid leukemia. Cells were treated with canthin-6-one and cell death, cell cycle and differentiation were evaluated in both total cells (Lin+) and leukemia stem cell population (CD34+CD38-Lin-/low).RESULTS: Among the human lineages tested, Kasumi-1 was the most sensitive to canthin-6-one. Canthin-6-one induced cell death with apoptotic (caspase activation, decrease of mitochondrial potential) and necrotic (lysosomal permeabilization, double labeling of annexin V/propidium iodide) characteristics. Moreover, canthin-6-one induced cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 (7μM) and G2 (45μM) evidenced by DNA content, BrdU incorporation and cyclin B1/histone 3 quantification. Canthin-6-one also promoted differentiation of Kasumi-1, evidenced by an increase in the expression of myeloid markers (CD11b and CD15) and the transcription factor PU.1. Furthermore, a reduction of the leukemic stem cell population and clonogenic capability of stem cells were observed.CONCLUSIONS: These results show that canthin-6-one can affect Kasumi-1 cells by promoting cell death, cell cycle arrest and cell differentiation depending on concentration used.GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: Canthin-6-one presents an interesting cytotoxic activity against leukemic cells and represents a promising scaffold for the development of molecules for anti-leukemic applications, especially by its anti-leukemic stem cell activity.
The v-rel oncoprotein encoded by reticuloendotheliosis virus T strain (Rev-T) is a member of the rel/NF-κB family of transcription factors capable of transformation of primary chicken spleen and bone marrow cells. Rapid transformation of avian haematopoietic cells by v-rel occurs through a process of deregulation of multiple protein-encoding genes through its direct effect on their promoters. More recently, upregulation of oncogenic miR-155 and its precursor pre-miR-155 was demonstrated in both Rev-T-infected chicken embryo fibroblast cultures and Rev-T-induced B-cell lymphomas. Through electrophoresis mobility shift assay and reporter analysis on the gga-miR-155 promoter, we showed that the v-rel-induced miR-155 overexpression occurred by the direct binding to one of the putative NF-κB binding sites. Using the v-rel-induced transformation model on chicken embryonic splenocyte cultures, we could demonstrate a dynamic increase in miR-155 levels during the transformation. Transcriptome profiles of lymphoid cells transformed by v-rel showed upregulation of miR-155 accompanied by downregulation of a number of putative miR-155 targets such as Pu.1 and CEBPβ. We also showed that v-rel could rescue the suppression of miR-155 expression observed in Marek's disease virus (MDV)-transformed cell lines, where its functional viral homologue MDV-miR-M4 is overexpressed. Demonstration of gene expression changes affecting major molecular pathways, including organismal injury and cancer in avian macrophages transfected with synthetic mature miR-155, underlines its potential direct role in transformation. Our study suggests that v-rel-induced transformation involves a complex set of events mediated by the direct activation of NF-κB targets, together with inhibitory effects on microRNA targets.
Tissue-resident macrophages, such as microglia, Kupffer cells, and Langerhans cells, derive from Myb-independent yolk sac (YS) progenitors generated before the emergence of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Myb-independent YS-derived resident macrophages self-renew locally, independently of circulating monocytes and HSCs. In contrast, adult blood monocytes, as well as infiltrating, gut, and dermal macrophages, derive from Myb-dependent HSCs. These findings are derived from the mouse, using gene knockouts and lineage tracing, but their applicability to human development has not been formally demonstrated. Here, we use human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) as a tool to model human hematopoietic development. By using a CRISPR-Cas9 knockout strategy, we show that human iPSC-derived monocytes/macrophages develop in an MYB-independent, RUNX1-, and SPI1 (PU.1)-dependent fashion. This result makes human iPSC-derived macrophages developmentally related to and a good model for MYB-independent tissue-resident macrophages, such as alveolar and kidney macrophages, microglia, Kupffer cells, and Langerhans cells.
S100A9, a calcium-binding protein, participates in the inflammatory process and development of various tumors, thus attracting much attention in the field of cancer biology. This study aimed to investigate the regulatory mechanism of S100A9 and its function involvement in APL. We used real-time quantitative PCR to determine whether PML/RARα affects the expression of S100A9 in NB4 and PR9 cells upon ATRA treatment. ChIP-based PCR and dual-luciferase reporter assay system were used to detect how PML/RARα and PU.1 regulate S100A9 promoter activity. CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry were employed to observe the viability and apoptosis of NB4 cells when S100A9 was overexpressed. Results showed that S100A9 was an ATRA-responsive gene, and PML/RARα was necessary for the ATRA-induced expression of S100A9 in APL cells. In addition, PU.1 could bind to the promoter of S100A9, especially when treated with ATRA in NB4 cells, and promote its activity. More importantly, overexpression of S100A9 induced the apoptosis of NB4 cells and inhibited cell growth. Collectively, our data indicated that PML/RARα and PU.1 were necessary for the ATRA-induced expression of S100A9 in APL cells. Furthermore, S100A9 promoted apoptosis in APL cells and affected cell growth.
B cell development and Ig rearrangement are governed by cell type- and developmental stage-specific transcription factors. PU.1 and Spi-B are E26-transformation-specific transcription factors that are critical for B cell differentiation. To determine whether PU.1 and Spi-B are required for B cell development in the bone marrow, Spi1 (encoding PU.1) was conditionally deleted in B cells by Cre recombinase under control of the Mb1 gene in Spib (encoding Spi-B)-deficient mice. Combined deletion of Spi1 and Spib resulted in a lack of mature B cells in the spleen and a block in B cell development in the bone marrow at the small pre-B cell stage. To determine target genes of PU.1 that could explain this block, we applied a gain-of-function approach using a PU.1/Spi-B-deficient pro-B cell line in which PU.1 can be induced by doxycycline. PU.1-induced genes were identified by integration of chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing and RNA-sequencing data. We found that PU.1 interacted with multiple sites in the Igκ locus, including Vκ promoters and regions located downstream of Vκ second exons. Induction of PU.1 induced Igκ transcription and rearrangement. Upregulation of Igκ transcription was impaired in small pre-B cells from PU.1/Spi-B-deficient bone marrow. These studies reveal an important role for PU.1 in the regulation of Igκ transcription and rearrangement and a requirement for PU.1 and Spi-B in B cell development.
Inflammation triggers the differentiation of Ly6Chi monocytes into microbicidal macrophages or monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs). Yet, it is unclear whether environmental inflammatory cues control the polarization of monocytes toward each of these fates or whether specialized monocyte progenitor subsets exist before inflammation. Here, we have shown that naive monocytes are phenotypically heterogeneous and contain an NR4A1- and Flt3L-independent, CCR2-dependent, Flt3+CD11c-MHCII+PU.1hi subset. This subset acted as a precursor for FcγRIII+PD-L2+CD209a+, GM-CSF-dependent moDCs but was distal from the DC lineage, as shown by fate-mapping experiments using Zbtb46. By contrast, Flt3-CD11c-MHCII-PU.1lo monocytes differentiated into FcγRIII+PD-L2-CD209a-iNOS+ macrophages upon microbial stimulation. Importantly, Sfpi1 haploinsufficiency genetically distinguished the precursor activities of monocytes toward moDCs or microbicidal macrophages. Indeed, Sfpi1+/- mice had reduced Flt3+CD11c-MHCII+ monocytes and GM-CSF-dependent FcγRIII+PD-L2+CD209a+ moDCs but generated iNOS+ macrophages more efficiently. Therefore, intercellular disparities of PU.1 expression within naive monocytes segregate progenitor activity for inflammatory iNOS+ macrophages or moDCs.
The tripartite motif (TRIM) family of proteins plays important roles in innate immunity and antimicrobial infection. None of these proteins has been shown to directly regulate transcription of genes in monocyte/macrophage except TRIM33 that we have recently shown to be a macrophage specific transcriptional inhibitor of Ifnb1. Using ChIP-seq analyses, we now report that TRIM33 is bound to two fold more genes in immature than in mature myeloid cell lines. When located near the same genes, TRIM33 is bound to different sequences in the two cell lines suggesting a role of TRIM33 in both immature and mature myeloid cells. Accordingly, expression of TRIM33 in immature myeloid cells is necessary for efficient production of small peritoneal macrophages, monocytes and bone marrow derived macrophage (BMDM) and TRIM33 targets a subset of genes involved in the inflammatory response only in mature myeloid cells. Functionally, this targeting is associated with impaired repression of pathways regulating the late phases of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activation of BMDM and a high sensitivity to LPS in vivo when the trim33 gene is inactivated in mature myeloid cells. These findings pinpoint TRIM33 as an important transcriptional actor of monocyte/macrophage mediated inflammation.
Macrophages are key components of the innate immune system and play pivotal roles in immune response, organ development, and tissue homeostasis. Studies in mice and zebrafish have shown that tissue-resident macrophages derived from different hematopoietic origins manifest distinct developmental kinetics and colonization potential, yet the genetic programs controlling the development of macrophages of different origins remain incompletely defined. In this study, we use zebrafish, where tissue-resident macrophages arise from the rostral blood island (RBI) and ventral wall of dorsal aorta (VDA), the zebrafish hematopoietic tissue equivalents to the mouse yolk sac and aorta-gonad-mesonephros for myelopoiesis, to address this issue. We show that RBI- and VDA-born macrophages are orchestrated by distinctive regulatory networks formed by the E-twenty-six (Ets) transcription factors Pu.1 and Spi-b, the zebrafish ortholog of mouse spleen focus forming virus proviral integration oncogene B (SPI-B), and the helix-turn-helix DNA-binding domain containing protein Irf8. Epistatic studies document that during RBI macrophage development, Pu.1 acts upstream of Spi-b, which, upon induction by Pu.1, partially compensates the function of Pu.1. In contrast, Pu.1 and Spi-b act in parallel and cooperatively to regulate the development of VDA-derived macrophages. Interestingly, these two distinct regulatory networks orchestrate the RBI- and VDA-born macrophage development largely by regulating a common downstream gene, Irf8. Our study indicates that macrophages derived from different origins are governed by distinct genetic networks formed by the same repertoire of myeloid-specific transcription factors.
Sepsis is a life-threatening event predominantly caused by Gram-negative bacteria. Bacterial infection causes a pronounced macrophage (MΦ) and dendritic cell activation that leads to excessive pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α production (cytokine storm), resulting in endotoxic shock. Previous experimental studies have revealed that inhibiting NF-κB signaling ameliorates disease symptoms; however, the contribution of myeloid p65 in endotoxic shock remains elusive. In this study, we demonstrate increased mortality in mice lacking p65 in the myeloid lineage (p65Δmye) compared with wild type mice upon ultra-pure LPS challenge. We show that increased susceptibility to LPS-induced shock was associated with elevated serum level of IL-1β and IL-6. Mechanistic analyses revealed that LPS-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine production was ameliorated in p65-deficient bone marrow-derived MΦs; however, p65-deficient 'activated' peritoneal MΦs exhibited elevated IL-1β and IL-6. We show that the elevated pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion was due, in part, to increased accumulation of IL-1β mRNA and protein in activated inflammatory MΦs. The increased IL-1β was linked with heightened binding of PU.1 and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-β to Il1b and Il6 promoters in activated inflammatory MΦs. Our data provide insight into a role for NF-κB in the negative regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines in myeloid cells.
Foreign body giant cell (FBGC) formation is associated with the inflammatory response following material implantation. However, the intracellular signaling events that regulate the process remain unclear. Here, we investigated the potential role of phospholipase C (PLC)γ1, a crucial enzyme required for growth factor-induced signaling, on FBGC formation. Knock-down of PLCγ1 using shRNA induced FBGC formation accompanied by increased expression of cathepsin K, DC-STAMP and CD36. Re-addition of PLCγ1 decreased FBGC formation. PLCγ1-deficiency caused a decrease in RUNX1 and subsequent PU.1 upregulation while subsequent rescue of RUNX1 in sh-PLCγ1-transfected cells strongly inhibited FBGC formation. FBGC generated by knock-down of PLCγ1 using shRNA resulted in strongly increased TNF-α production, with augmented activation of ERK, p38 MAPK and JNK, and subsequently NF-κB. Taken together, we suggest that PLCγ1 plays a role in the foreign body response by regulating the RUNX1/PU.1/DC-STAMP axis in macrophages.
Ten-eleven translocation (TET) enzymes oxidize 5-methylcytosine, facilitating DNA demethylation and generating new epigenetic marks. Here we show that concomitant loss of Tet2 and Tet3 in mice at early B cell stage blocked the pro- to pre-B cell transition in the bone marrow, decreased Irf4 expression and impaired the germline transcription and rearrangement of the Igκ locus. Tet2/3-deficient pro-B cells showed increased CpG methylation at the Igκ 3' and distal enhancers that was mimicked by depletion of E2A or PU.1, as well as a global decrease in chromatin accessibility at enhancers. Importantly, re-expression of the Tet2 catalytic domain in Tet2/3-deficient B cells resulted in demethylation of the Igκ enhancers and restored their chromatin accessibility. Our data suggest that TET proteins and lineage-specific transcription factors cooperate to influence chromatin accessibility and Igκ enhancer function by modulating the modification status of DNA.
Allergic asthma is a worldwide increasing chronic disease of the airways which affects more than 300 million people. It is associated with increased IgE, mast cell activation, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), mucus overproduction and remodeling of the airways. Previously, this pathological trait has been associated with T helper type 2 (Th2) cells. Recently, different CD4+ T cell subsets (Th17, Th9) as well as cells of innate immunity, like mast cells and innate lymphoid cells type 2 (ILC2s), which are all capable of producing the rediscovered cytokine IL-9, are known to contribute to this disease. Regarding Th9 cells, it is known that naïve T cells develop into IL-9-producing cells in the presence of interleukin-4 (IL-4) and transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ). Downstream of IL-4, several transcription factors like signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6), interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4), GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3), basic leucine zipper transcription factor, ATF-like (BATF) and nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) are activated. Additionally, the transcription factor PU.1, which is downstream of TGFβ signaling, also seems to be crucial in the development of Th9 cells. IL-9 is a pleiotropic cytokine that influences various distinct functions of different target cells such as T cells, B cells, mast cells and airway epithelial cells by activating STAT1, STAT3 and STAT5. Because of its pleiotropic functions, IL-9 has been demonstrated to be involved in several diseases, such as cancer, autoimmunity and other pathogen-mediated immune-regulated diseases. In this review, we focus on the role of Th9 and IL-9-producing cells in allergic asthma.
Emergency granulopoiesis occurs in response to severe microbial infection. However, whether and how other blood components, particularly monocytes/macrophages and their progenitors, including hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs), participate in the process and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. In this study, we challenged zebrafish larvae via direct injection of Escherichia coli into the bloodstream, which resulted in systemic inoculation with this microbe. The reaction of hematopoietic cells, including HSPCs, in the caudal hematopoietic tissue was carefully analysed. Both macrophages and neutrophils clearly expanded following the challenge. Thus, emergency myelopoiesis, including monopoiesis and granulopoiesis, occurred following systemic bacterial infection. The HSPC reaction was dependent on the bacterial burden, manifesting as a slight increase under low burden, but an obvious reduction following the administration of an excessive volume of bacteria. Pu.1 was important for the effective elimination of the microbes to prevent excessive HSPC apoptosis in response to stress. Moreover, Pu.1 played different roles in steady and emergency monopoiesis. Although Pu.1 was essential for normal macrophage development, it played suppressive roles in emergency monopoiesis. Overall, our study established a systemic bacterial infection model that led to emergency myelopoiesis, thereby improving our understanding of the function of Pu.1 in this scenario.
The antimetabolite 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is one of the most widely used chemotherapy drugs. Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) is a major determinant of 5-FU response and toxicity. Although DPYD variants may affect 5-FU metabolism, they do not completely explain the reported variability in DPD function or the resultant differences in treatment response. Here, we report that H3K27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) at the DPYD promoter regulated by Ezh2 and UTX suppresses DPYD expression by inhibiting transcription factor PU.1 binding, leading to increased resistance to 5-FU. Enrichment of H3K27me3 at the DPYD promoter was negatively correlated with both DPYD expression and DPD enzyme activity in peripheral blood specimens from healthy volunteers. Lastly, tumor expression data suggest that DPYD repression by Ezh2 predicts poor survival in 5-FU-treated cancers. Collectively, the findings of the present article suggest that a previously uncharacterized mechanism regulates DPD expression and may contribute to tumor resistance to 5-FU. Cancer Res; 76(21); 6362-73. ©2016 AACR.
Using Molecular Dynamics, this paper investigates the thermophysical properties and oxygen transport of (Thx,Pu1-x)O2 (0 ≤ x ≤ 1) between 300-3500 K. In particular, the superionic transition is investigated and viewed via the thermal dependence of lattice parameter, linear thermal expansion coefficient, enthalpy and specific heat at constant pressure. Oxygen diffusivity and activation enthalpy are also investigated. Below the superionic temperature an increase of oxygen diffusivity for certain compositions of (Thx,Pu1-x)O2 compared to the pure end members is predicted. Oxygen defect formation enthalpies are also examined, as they underpin the superionic transition temperature and the increase in oxygen diffusivity. The increase in oxygen diffusivity for (Thx,Pu1-x)O2 is explained in terms of lower oxygen defect formation enthalpies for (Thx,Pu1-x)O2 than PuO2 and ThO2, while links are drawn between the superionic transition temperature and oxygen Frenkel disorder.
RATIONALE: Cholesteryl hemiesters are oxidation products of polyunsaturated fatty acid esters of cholesterol. Their oxo-ester precursors have been identified as important components of the "core aldehydes" of human atheromata and in oxidized lipoproteins (Ox-LDL). We had previously shown, for the first time, that a single compound of this family, cholesteryl hemisuccinate (ChS), is sufficient to cause irreversible lysosomal lipid accumulation (lipidosis), and is toxic to macrophages. These features, coupled to others such as inflammation, are typically seen in atherosclerosis.OBJECTIVE: To obtain insights into the mechanism of cholesteryl hemiester-induced pathological changes in lysosome function and induction of inflammation in vitro and assess their impact in vivo.METHODS AND RESULTS: We have examined the effects of ChS on macrophages (murine cell lines and primary cultures) in detail. Specifically, lysosomal morphology, pH, and proteolytic capacity were examined. Exposure of macrophages to sub-toxic ChS concentrations caused enlargement of the lysosomes, changes in their luminal pH, and accumulation of cargo in them. In primary mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM), ChS-exposure increased the secretion of IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6. In zebrafish larvae (wild-type AB and PU.1:EGFP), fed with a ChS-enriched diet, we observed lipid accumulation, myeloid cell-infiltration in their vasculature and decrease in larval survival. Under the same conditions the effects of ChS were more profound than the effects of free cholesterol (FC).CONCLUSIONS: Our data strongly suggest that cholesteryl hemiesters are pro-atherogenic lipids able to mimic features of Ox-LDL both in vitro and in vivo.
Formation of the hematopoietic cells occurs in multiple steps. The first hematopoietic cells observed during ontogeny are primitive erythrocytes, which are produced in the early yolk sac within a limited temporal window. Multi-lineage hematopoiesis, which supplies almost the entire repertoire of blood cell lineages, lags behind primitive erythropoiesis in the tissue. However, molecular mechanisms regulating sequential generation of primitive erythrocytes and multipotent hematopoietic progenitors in the yolk sac are largely unknown. In this study, the transcription factors involved in the development of hematopoietic cells were examined in purified progenitor cell populations from pluripotent stem cell cultures and from the yolk sac of developing embryos. We found that the earliest committed hematopoietic progenitors highly expressed Gata1, Scl/tal1, and Klf1 genes. Expression of these transcription factors, which is known to form a core erythroid transcriptional network, explained the prompt generation of primitive erythrocytes from these earliest progenitors. Importantly, the multipotent hematopoietic cells, which lack the differentiation potential into primitive erythroid cells, down-regulated these genes during a transition from the earliest committed progenitors. In addition, we showed that Pu.1 is involved in the multipotent cell differentiation through the suppression of erythroid transcription program. We propose that these molecular mechanisms governed by transcription factors form sequential waves of primitive erythropoiesis and multi-lineage hematopoiesis in the early yolk sac of developing embryos. J. Cell. Physiol. 232: 323-330, 2017. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Aberrant histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity often correlates with neoplastic transformation and inhibition of HDACs by small molecules has emerged as a promising strategy to treat hematological malignancies in particular. Treatment with HDAC inhibitors (HDACis) often prompts tumor cells to undergo apoptosis, thereby causing a caspase-dependent cleavage of target proteins. An unexpectedly large number of proteins are in vivo caspase substrates and defining caspase-mediated substrate specificity is a major challenge. In this chapter we demonstrate that the hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1 becomes cleaved after treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells with the HDACis LBH589 (panobinostat) or MS-275 (entinostat). To define caspase specificity for PU.1, an in vitro caspase assay including caspases 1-10 with in vitro-translated PU.1 is described in detail.
The mouse zinc-finger gene Zfp521 (also known as ecotropic viral insertion site 3; Evi3; and ZNF521 in humans) has been identified as a B-cell proto-oncogene, causing leukemia in mice following retroviral insertions in its promoter region that drive Zfp521 over-expression. Furthermore, ZNF521 is expressed in human hematopoietic cells, and translocations between ZNF521 and PAX5 are associated with pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia. However, the regulatory factors that control Zfp521 expression directly have not been characterized. Here we demonstrate that the transcription factors SPI1 (PU.1) and HOXC13 synergistically regulate Zfp521 expression, and identify the regions of the Zfp521 promoter required for this transcriptional activity. We also show that SPI1 and HOXC13 activate Zfp521 in a dose-dependent manner. Our data support a role for this regulatory mechanism in vivo, as transgenic mice over-expressing Hoxc13 in the fetal liver show a strong correlation between Hoxc13 expression levels and Zfp521 expression. Overall these experiments provide insights into the regulation of Zfp521 expression in a nononcogenic context. The identification of transcription factors capable of activating Zfp521 provides a foundation for further investigation of the regulatory mechanisms involved in ZFP521-driven cell differentiation processes and diseases linked to Zfp521 mis-expression.
Differentiation therapy can supplement the therapy of APL, but other subtypes of AML are treated principally with cytotoxic agents, with few lasting remissions. While the induction of monocyte followed by macrophage differentiation by vitamin D derivatives (VDDs) is dramatic in cultured AML cells of all subtypes, attempts to translate this to the clinic have not been effective. Thus, better understanding of the mechanisms underlying VDD-induced differentiation may improve this approach. The key events in this form of differentiation include increased expression of CD11b, and the transcription factor PU.1 is known to be a part of this process. We show here that in the transition of monocytes to macrophages induced by a VDD, ERK5, a member of the MAPK family of signaling molecules, prevents PU.1 expression. However, upon ERK5 inhibition PU.1 protein is stabilized by HSP70.Thus, ERK5 may be a target for manipulation of the immunoregulatory actions of macrophages in cancer.
Selective targeting of the PML/RARα oncoprotein demonstrates a successful molecular targeted therapy in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) with a typical t(15:17) chromosomal translocation. The zinc-thiolate coordination is critical for structural stability of zinc finger proteins, including the PML moiety of PML/RARα. Based on the known interaction of redox-active selenium compounds with thiolate ligands of zinc, we herein have investigated the abrogatory effects of selenite alone or in combination with all-trans retinoic acid on PML/RARα and the possible effects on differentiation in these cells. At pharmacological concentrations, selenite inhibited the proliferation and survival of APL originated NB4 cells. In combination with ATRA, it potentiated the differentiation of NB4 cells without any differentiating effects of its own as a single agent. Concordant with our hypothesis, PML/RARα oncoprotein expression was completely abrogated by selenite. Increased expression of RARα, PU.1 and FOXO3A transcription factors in the combined treatment suggested the plausible basis for increased differentiation in these cells. We show that selenite at clinically achievable dose targets PML/RARα oncoprotein for degradation and potentiates differentiation of promyelocytic leukemic cells in combination with ATRA. The present investigation reveals the hitherto unknown potential of selenite in targeted abrogation of PML/RARα in APL cells with prospective therapeutic value.
PU.1 is a hematopoietic lineage-specific transcription factor belonging to the Ets family. We investigated the role of PU.1 in the expression of OX40L in dendritic cells (DCs), because the regulatory mechanism of cell type-specific expression of OX40L, which is mainly restricted to antigen-presenting cells, is largely unknown despite the critical involvement in Th2 and Tfh development. PU.1 knockdown decreased the expression of OX40L in mouse DCs. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays demonstrated that PU.1 constitutively bound to the proximal region of the OX40L promoter. Reporter assays and electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that PU.1 transactivated the OX40L promoter through direct binding to the most-proximal Ets motif. We found that this Ets motif is conserved between mouse and human, and that PU.1 bound to the human OX40L promoter in ChIP assay using human monocyte-derived DCs. ChIP assays based on ChIP-seq datasets revealed that PU.1 binds to several sites distant from the transcription start site on the OX40L gene in addition to the most-proximal site in mouse DCs. In the present study, the structure of the OX40L promoter regulated by PU.1 is determined. It is also suggested that PU.1 is involved in mouse OX40L expression via multiple binding sites on the gene.
Toll-like receptors (TLR) are crucial sensors of microbial agents such as bacterial or viral compounds. These receptors constitute key players in the induction of inflammation, e.g. in septic or chronic inflammatory diseases. Colony-stimulating factors (CSFs) such as granulocyte-macrophage-CSF (GM-CSF) or granulocyte-CSF (G-CSF) have been extensively investigated in their capacity to promote myelopoiesis in febrile neutropenia or to overcome immunosuppression in patients suffering from sepsis-associated neutropenia or from monocytic immunoincompetence. We report here that GM-CSF, downregulates TLR1, TLR2 and TLR4 in a time- and dose-dependent fashion in human monocytes. Diminished pathogen recognition receptor expression was accompanied by reduced downstream p38 and extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling upon lipoteichoic acid (LTA) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) binding-and accordingly led to impaired proinflammatory cytokine production. Knockdown experiments of the transcription factors PU.1 and VentX showed that GM-CSF driven effects on TLR regulation is entirely PU.1 but not VentX dependent. We further analysed monocyte TLR and CD14 expression upon exposure to the IMID® immunomodulatory drug Pomalidomide (CC-4047), a Thalidomide analogue known to downregulate PU.1. Indeed, Pomalidomide in part reversed the GM-CSF-mediated effects. Our data indicate a critical role of PU.1 in the regulation of TLR1, 2, 4 and of CD14, thus targeting PU.1 ultimately results in TLR modulation. The PU.1 mediated immunomodulatory properties of GM-CSF should be taken into consideration upon usage of GM-CSF in inflammatory or infection-related conditions.
DNMT1 is the maintenance DNA methyltransferase shown to be essential for embryonic development and cellular growth and differentiation in many somatic tissues in mammals. Increasing evidence has also suggested a role for DNMT1 in repressing gene expression through interactions with specific transcription factors. Previously, we identified DNMT1 as an interacting partner of the TR2/TR4 nuclear receptor heterodimer in erythroid cells, implicated in the developmental silencing of fetal β-type globin genes in the adult stage of human erythropoiesis. Here, we extended this work by using a biotinylation tagging approach to characterize DNMT1 protein complexes in mouse erythroleukemic cells. We identified novel DNMT1 interactions with several hematopoietic transcription factors with essential roles in erythroid differentiation, including GATA1, GFI-1b and FOG-1. We provide evidence for DNMT1 forming distinct protein subcomplexes with specific transcription factors and propose the existence of a "core" DNMT1 complex with the transcription factors ZBP-89 and ZNF143, which is also present in non-hematopoietic cells. Furthermore, we identified the short (17a.a.) PCNA Binding Domain (PBD) located near the N-terminus of DNMT1 as being necessary for mediating interactions with the transcription factors described herein. Lastly, we provide evidence for DNMT1 serving as a co-repressor of ZBP-89 and GATA1 acting through upstream regulatory elements of the PU.1 and GATA1 gene loci.
MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) is an important regulator of B cells in mice. B cells have a critical role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Here we show that miR-155 is highly expressed in peripheral blood B cells from RA patients compared with healthy individuals, particularly in the IgD-CD27- memory B-cell population in ACPA+ RA. MiR-155 is highly expressed in RA B cells from patients with synovial tissue containing ectopic germinal centres compared with diffuse synovial tissue. MiR-155 expression is associated reciprocally with lower expression of PU.1 at B-cell level in the synovial compartment. Stimulation of healthy donor B cells with CD40L, anti-IgM, IL-21, CpG, IFN-α, IL-6 or BAFF induces miR-155 and decreases PU.1 expression. Finally, inhibition of endogenous miR-155 in B cells of RA patients restores PU.1 and reduces production of antibodies. Our data suggest that miR-155 is an important regulator of B-cell activation in RA.
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is a heterogeneous autoimmune disease, characterized by dysregulation of cellular immunity. Th9 cells were recently identified as a new subtype of Th cells, characterized by preferential production of IL-9. Given the pleiotropic function of IL-9, Th9 cells are demonstrated to be involved in various autoimmune diseases. However, whether Th9 cells are involved in the pathogenesis of ITP remains unclear. In this study, 49 active ITP patients, 39 ITP with remission and 20 healthy controls were included. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated from ITP and controls for measuring Th9 and Th17 cells by flow cytometry. Meanwhile, RNA was isolated from PBMCs for the measurement of the mRNA level of PU.1, IRF4, BATF, and RORγt by quantitative real-time PCR. Plasma levels of IL-9 and IL-17 were detected by ELISA. Our results showed that higher expressions of Th9, IL-9, and associated transcription factors (PU.1, IRF4, and BATF) were found in active ITP patients and restored to the normal level (except IL-9) in patients in remission. Meanwhile, Th9 cells and the IL-9 plasma level were positively correlated with Th17 cells and the IL-17 level in ITP patients, respectively. Moreover, a positive correlation of IRF4 or BATF with RORγt was found. In conclusion, an aberrant expression profile of Th9/IL-9 was associated with pathogenesis of ITP possibly through cooperatively working with Th17/IL-17 and therapeutically targeting Th9/IL-9 might be a novel approach in the treatment of ITP.
Takayasu's arteritis (TAK) is a type of large vessel vasculitis which involves the aorta and its major branches. Interleukin (IL)-9 or IL-9-producing Th9 cells were found to be involved in pathogenesis of autoimmune arteritis such as giant cell arteritis, but IL-9 or Th9 cells in TAK were not well known. Here, this study aims to analyze the levels of serum IL-9 and their major source Th9 cells in TAK. With the help of cytometric bead array (CBA), a total of 21 patients with TAK were examined for serum levels of cytokines IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, IL-10, TNF-α, IFN-γ, and IL-9. Flow cytometry techniques were used to examine the frequencies of Th9 cells from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) for 11 patients with active TAK and 10 healthy controls. Higher serum levels of serum IL-6 (P < 0.05), TNF-α (P < 0.05), and IL-9 level (P < 0.05) were observed in TAK patients compared to those of healthy controls. Higher frequencies of CD4+ IL-9+ T cells and CD4+ PU.1+ T cells in PBMCs and IL-9+ PU.1+ T cells in CD4+ T cells were observed in active TAK patients than those in healthy controls (all P < 0.01). The levels of IL-9 had a positive correlation with ESR (r = 0.975, P = 0.015) in these cases. Our data suggested that Th9 cells and IL-9 could possibly be involved in the pathogenesis of TAK.
Acute promyelocitic leukemia (APL) is characterized by the pathognomonic presence in leukemic blasts of the hybrid protein PML/RARA, that acts as a transcriptional repressor impairing the expression of genes that are critical to myeloid differentiation. Here, we show that primary blasts from APL patients express lower levels of the oncosuppressor protein PTEN, as compared to blast cells from other AML subtypes or normal bone marrow, and demonstrate that PML-RARA directly inhibits PTEN expression. We show that All-Trans Retinoic Acid (ATRA) triggers in APL cells an active chromatin status at the core regulatory region of the PTEN promoter, that allows the binding of the myeloid-regulating transcription factor PU.1, and, in turn, the transcriptional induction of PTEN. ATRA, via PML/RARA degradation, also promotes PTEN nuclear re-localization and decreases expression of the PTEN target Aurora A kinase. In conclusion, our findings support the notion that PTEN is one of the primary targets of PML/RARA in APL.
Comment in    PLoS Genet. 2017 Jan 12;13(1):e1006505.
The c-Myb transcription factor is a major regulator that controls differentiation and proliferation of hematopoietic progenitor cells, which is frequently deregulated in hematological diseases, such as lymphoma and leukemia. Understanding of the mechanisms regulating the transcription of c-myb gene is challenging as it lacks a typical promoter and multiple factors are involved. Our previous studies identified some distal regulatory elements in the upstream regions of c-myb gene in murine myeloid progenitor M1 cells, but the detailed mechanisms still remain unclear. In the present study, we found that a cell differentiation-related DNase1 hypersensitive site is located at a -28k region upstream of c-myb gene and that transcription factors Hoxa9, Meis1 and PU.1 bind to the -28k region. Circular chromosome conformation capture (4C) assay confirmed the interaction between the -28k region and the c-myb promoter, which is supported by the enrichment of CTCF and Cohesin. Our analysis also points to a critical role for Hoxa9 and PU.1 in distal regulation of c-myb expression in murine myeloid cells and cell differentiation. Overexpression of Hoxa9 disrupted the IL-6-induced differentiation of M1 cells and upregulated c-myb expression through binding of the -28k region. Taken together, our results provide an evidence for critical role of the -28k region in distal regulatory mechanism for c-myb gene expression during differentiation of myeloid progenitor M1 cells.
Comment in    Immunity. 2016 Sep 20;45(3):457-458.
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: A cascade of gene activations under the control of Notch signalling is required during T-cell specification, when T-cell precursors gradually lose the potential to undertake other fates and become fully committed to the T-cell lineage. We elucidate how the gene/protein dynamics for a core transcriptional module governs this important process by computational means.METHODS: We first assembled existing knowledge about transcription factors known to be important for T-cell specification to form a minimal core module consisting of TCF-1, GATA-3, BCL11B, and PU.1 aiming at dynamical modeling. Model architecture was based on published experimental measurements of the effects on each factor when each of the others is perturbed. While several studies provided gene expression measurements at different stages of T-cell development, pure time series are not available, thus precluding a straightforward study of the dynamical interactions among these genes. We therefore translate stage dependent data into time series. A feed-forward motif with multiple positive feed-backs can account for the observed delay between BCL11B versus TCF-1 and GATA-3 activation by Notch signalling. With a novel computational approach, all 32 possible interactions among Notch signalling, TCF-1, and GATA-3 are explored by translating combinatorial logic expressions into differential equations for BCL11B production rate.RESULTS: Our analysis reveals that only 3 of 32 possible configurations, where GATA-3 works as a dimer, are able to explain not only the time delay, but very importantly, also give rise to irreversibility. The winning models explain the data within the 95% confidence region and are consistent with regard to decay rates.CONCLUSIONS: This first generation model for early T-cell specification has relatively few players. Yet it explains the gradual transition into a committed state with no return. Encoding logics in a rate equation setting allows determination of binding properties beyond what is possible in a Boolean network.
The IL-9-secreting Th9 subset of CD4 Th cells develop in response to an environment containing IL-4 and TGF-β, promoting allergic disease, autoimmunity, and resistance to pathogens. We previously identified a requirement for the ETS family transcription factor PU.1 in Th9 development. In this report, we demonstrate that the ETS transcription factor ETS variant 5 (ETV5) promotes IL-9 production in Th9 cells by binding and recruiting histone acetyltransferases to the Il9 locus at sites distinct from PU.1. In cells that are deficient in both PU.1 and ETV5 there is lower IL-9 production than in cells lacking either factor alone. In vivo loss of PU.1 and ETV5 in T cells results in distinct effects on allergic inflammation in the lung, suggesting that these factors function in parallel. Together, these data define a role for ETV5 in Th9 development and extend the paradigm of related transcription factors having complementary functions during differentiation.
PURPOSE: Reduced expression of miR-142-3p has been found to be associated with the development of various subtypes of myeloid leukemia, including acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). In APL-derived cells, miR-142-3p expression can be restored by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), which induces the completion of their maturation program. Here, we aimed to assess whether PU.1, essential for ATRA-induced gene transcription, regulates the expression of miR-142-3p in APL-derived cells and, based on the established cooperation between PU.1 and Vav1 in modulating gene expression, to evaluate the role of Vav1 in restoring the expression of miR-142-3p.METHODS: ATRA-induced increases in PU.1 and Vav1 expression in APL-derived NB4 cells were counteracted with specific siRNAs, and the expression of miR-142-3p was measured by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The recruitment of PU.1 and/or Vav1 to the regulatory region of miR-142 was assessed by quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation (Q-ChIP). Synthetic inhibitors or mimics for miR-142-3p were used to assess whether this miRNA plays a role in regulating the expression of PU.1 and/or Vav1.RESULTS: We found that the expression of miR-142-3p in differentiating APL-derived NB4 cells is dependent on PU.1, and that Vav1 is essential for the recruitment of this transcription factor to its cis-binding element on the miR-142 promoter. In addition, we found that in ATRA-treated NB4 cells miR-142-3p sustains agonist-induced increases in both PU.1 and Vav1.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest the existence of a Vav1/PU.1/miR-142-3p network that supports ATRA-induced differentiation in APL-derived cells. Since selective regulation of miRNAs may play a role in the future treatment of hematopoietic malignancies, our results may provide a basis for the development of new therapeutic strategies to restore the expression of miR-142-3p.
A regulatory circuit that controls myeloid versus B lymphoid cell fate in hematopoietic progenitors has been proposed, in which a network of the transcription factors Egr1/2, Nab, Gfi1 and PU.1 forms the core element. Here we show that a direct link between Gfi1, the transcription factor E2A and its inhibitor Id1 is a critical element of this regulatory circuit. Our data suggest that a certain threshold of Gfi1 is required to gauge E2A activity by adjusting levels of Id1 in multipotent progenitors, which are the first bipotential myeloid/lymphoid-restricted progeny of hematopoietic stem cells. If Gfi1 levels are high, Id1 is repressed enabling E2A to activate a specific set of B lineage genes by binding to regulatory elements for example the IL7 receptor gene. If Gfi1 levels fall below a threshold, Id1 expression increases and renders E2A unable to function, which prevents hematopoietic progenitors from engaging along the B lymphoid lineage.
Trichostatin A (TSA) is a well-known histone deacetylases (HDACs) inhibitor that has been reported to show potent anti-tumor capabilities in some types of cancer cell lines. However, detailed mechanism of TSA action on lymphoma remains to be described. In the present study, anti-proliferative effects of TSA were investigated using a murine pro-B lymphoma cell line FL5.12. MTT assay revealed that TSA potently inhibited the proliferation of FL5.12 cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Bright-field microscopy of FL5.12 cells showed apoptotic morphology at 24 h after TSA treatment. Consistently, TSA treatment led to DNA fragmentation and increased the protein levels of cleaved caspase 3 and PARP as revealed by western blot analysis. To explore the underlying mechanism of TSA-induced apoptosis of FL5.12 cells, we further analyzed the hematopoietic transcription factor Purine Rich Box-1 (PU.1) by western blot analysis. TSA treatment resulted in the inhibition of PU.1 in FL5.12 cells. In contrast, apoptotic protein Bim was induced by TSA, which was inversely correlated with the survival of FL5.12 cells. These results suggest the possible mechanism of TSA-induced apoptosis in murine pro-B lymphoma FL5.12 cells via the PU.1-Bim axis.
Signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family member 1 (SLAMF1)/CD150 is a co-stimulatory receptor expressed on a variety of hematopoietic cells, in particular on mature lymphocytes activated by specific antigen, costimulation and cytokines. Changes in CD150 expression level have been reported in association with autoimmunity and with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We characterized the core promoter for SLAMF1 gene in human B-cell lines and explored binding sites for a number of transcription factors involved in B cell differentiation and activation. Mutations of SP1, STAT6, IRF4, NF-kB, ELF1, TCF3, and SPI1/PU.1 sites resulted in significantly decreased promoter activity of varying magnitude, depending on the cell line tested. The most profound effect on the promoter strength was observed upon mutation of the binding site for Early B-cell factor 1 (EBF1). This mutation produced a 10-20 fold drop in promoter activity and pinpointed EBF1 as the master regulator of human SLAMF1 gene in B cells. We also identified three potent transcriptional enhancers in human SLAMF1 locus, each containing functional EBF1 binding sites. Thus, EBF1 interacts with specific binding sites located both in the promoter and in the enhancer regions of the SLAMF1 gene and is critical for its expression in human B cells.
BACKGROUND The ability to generate dendritic cells (DCs) from precursory monocytes (MOs) was a breakthrough in the field of immunology. However, it is unknown whether the ability of MOs to differentiate into immature DCs (iDCs) differs across subjects or is time dependent. Given that the study of immune system function is gaining recognition in the field of clinical medicine, it is important to know how certain immunologic features vary over time. MATERIAL AND METHODS This study investigates how much individuals' MO-to-iDC differentiation potential changes over time. We estimated this potential by measuring the expression of an iDC marker (CD1a), cytokine secretion (interleukin [IL]-12p70), and the ability of IL-4 and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) differentiation MOs to stimulate T cells. We collected MOs obtained from different subjects (n=17) at least 1 month apart. Furthermore, we investigated several variables (expression for cytokine receptors, timing, and emergence of DC-related transcriptional factor PU.1). RESULTS The ability of MOs to become DCs under the influence of IL-4 and GM-CSF varied greatly between individuals (range of CD1a expression, 20-80%) but was stable over time (change of CD1a expression between sampling, ~5%). A similar pattern emerged when production of IL-12p70 was analyzed. The ability to stimulate T cells was variable and depended on the T-cell source. The ability of MOs to become iDCs was not linked to the surface expression of receptors for IL-4 and GM-CSF but rather to the activation of PU.1 in the precursory MO. It took 5 days for all committed MOs to become iDCs under in vitro influence of IL-4 and GM-CSF. CONCLUSIONS We concluded that the potential of MO to become iDC is an individual feature and depends on activation of PU.1.
The mechanisms underlying haematopoietic lineage decisions remain disputed. Lineage-affiliated transcription factors with the capacity for lineage reprogramming, positive auto-regulation and mutual inhibition have been described as being expressed in uncommitted cell populations. This led to the assumption that lineage choice is cell-intrinsically initiated and determined by stochastic switches of randomly fluctuating cross-antagonistic transcription factors. However, this hypothesis was developed on the basis of RNA expression data from snapshot and/or population-averaged analyses. Alternative models of lineage choice therefore cannot be excluded. Here we use novel reporter mouse lines and live imaging for continuous single-cell long-term quantification of the transcription factors GATA1 and PU.1 (also known as SPI1). We analyse individual haematopoietic stem cells throughout differentiation into megakaryocytic-erythroid and granulocytic-monocytic lineages. The observed expression dynamics are incompatible with the assumption that stochastic switching between PU.1 and GATA1 precedes and initiates megakaryocytic-erythroid versus granulocytic-monocytic lineage decision-making. Rather, our findings suggest that these transcription factors are only executing and reinforcing lineage choice once made. These results challenge the current prevailing model of early myeloid lineage choice.
We show how enhancers of macrophage-specific genes are rendered accessible in differentiating macrophages to allow their induction in mature cells in response to an appropriate stimulus. Using a lentiviral knockdown approach in primary differentiating macrophages from mouse bone marrow, we demonstrate that enhancers of Il12b and Il1a are kept relatively lowly occupied by nucleosomes and accessible through recruitment of the nucleosome remodeler BAF/PBAF. Our results using an inducible cell line that expresses an estrogen receptor fusion of the macrophage-specific transcription factor PU.1 (PUER) show that BAF/PBAF recruitment to these enhancers is a consequence of translocation of PUER to the nucleus in the presence of tamoxifen, and we speculate that remodeler recruitment may be directly mediated by PU.1. In the absence of BAF/PBAF recruitment, nucleosome occupancy at the enhancer of Il12b (and to a lesser extent at Il1a) reaches high levels in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), and the enhancers are not fully cleared of nucleosomes upon LPS induction, resulting in impaired gene expression. Analysis of Il12b expression in single cells suggests that recruitment of the remodeler is necessary for high levels of transcription from the same promoter, and we propose that remodelers function by increasing nucleosome turnover to facilitate transcription factor over nucleosome binding in a process we have termed "remodeler-assisted competition."
Ehrlichia chaffeensis preferentially targets mononuclear phagocytes and survives through a strategy of subverting innate immune defenses, but the mechanisms are unknown. We have shown E. chaffeensis type 1 secreted tandem repeat protein (TRP) effectors are involved in diverse molecular pathogen-host interactions, such as the TRP120 interaction with the Notch receptor-cleaving metalloprotease ADAM17. In the present study, we demonstrate E. chaffeensis, via the TRP120 effector, activates the canonical Notch signaling pathway to promote intracellular survival. We found that nuclear translocation of the transcriptionally active Notch intracellular domain (NICD) occurs in response to E. chaffeensis or recombinant TRP120, resulting in upregulation of Notch signaling pathway components and target genes notch1, adam17, hes, and hey Significant differences in canonical Notch signaling gene expression levels (>40%) were observed during early and late stages of infection, indicating activation of the Notch pathway. We linked Notch pathway activation specifically to the TRP120 effector, which directly interacts with the Notch metalloprotease ADAM17. Using pharmacological inhibitors and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) against γ-secretase enzyme, Notch transcription factor complex, Notch1, and ADAM17, we demonstrated that Notch signaling is required for ehrlichial survival. We studied the downstream effects and found that E. chaffeensis TRP120-mediated activation of the Notch pathway causes inhibition of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways required for PU.1 and subsequent Toll-like receptor 2/4 (TLR2/4) expression. This investigation reveals a novel mechanism whereby E. chaffeensis exploits the Notch pathway to evade the host innate immune response for intracellular survival.IMPORTANCE: E. chaffeensis is an obligately intracellular bacterium and the etiologic agent of human monocytotropic ehrlichiosis (HME), an emerging life-threatening tick-borne zoonosis. Mechanisms by which E. chaffeensis establishes intracellular infection and avoids innate host defenses are not understood, but functionally relevant host-pathogen interactions with type 1 secreted TRP effectors are essential for the ehrlichial cellular reprogramming strategy. This study provides further insight into the molecular strategies used by obligately intracellular pathogens such as E. chaffeensis, which have small genomes and a limited number of effector proteins and exploit evolutionarily conserved host cell programs such as Notch signaling to promote infection and intracellular survival.
The transcription factor, interferon regulatory factor-8 (IRF8), is required for the development of monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs), basophils, and eosinophils, while it inhibits the generation of neutrophils. Recently, the molecular mechanisms by which IRF8 regulates their development have been increasingly clarified by genome-wide analyses, including chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing and transcriptome profiling. IRF8 associates with the myeloid master transcription factor, PU.1, to promote the establishment of cell-type-specific enhancers and gene expression, thereby driving monocyte development or maintaining the plasmacytoid DC-specific gene expression profiles. Furthermore, microbial stimulation enables IRF8 to associate with other transcription factors, including IRF1, to induce immune response genes. Knowledge about the regulation of Irf8 expression in myeloid development has also increased. In this review, we discuss recent advances in our understanding of transcriptional and epigenetic regulation involving IRF8 in the development of myeloid cells.
Methylation of histone tails plays a pivotal role in the regulation of a wide range of biological processes. SET and MYND domain-containing protein (SMYD) is a methyltransferase, five family members of which have been identified in humans. SMYD1, SMYD2, SMYD3, and SMYD4 have been found to play critical roles in carcinogenesis and/or the development of heart and skeletal muscle. However, the physiological functions of SMYD5 remain unknown. To investigate the function of Smyd5 in vivo, zebrafish were utilised as a model system. We first examined smyd5 expression patterns in developing zebrafish embryos. Smyd5 transcripts were abundantly expressed at early developmental stages and then gradually decreased. Smyd5 was expressed in all adult tissues examined. Loss-of-function analysis of Smyd5 was then performed in zebrafish embryos using smyd5 morpholino oligonucleotide (MO). Embryos injected with smyd5-MO showed normal gross morphological development, including of heart and skeletal muscle. However, increased expression of both primitive and definitive hematopoietic markers, including pu.1, mpx, l-plastin, and cmyb, were observed. These phenotypes of smyd5-MO zebrafish embryos were also observed when we introduced mutations in smyd5 gene with the CRISPR/Cas9 system. As the expression of myeloid markers was elevated in smyd5 loss-of-function zebrafish, we propose that Smyd5 plays critical roles in hematopoiesis.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression levels of Th9, Th17 and Treg cells in peripheral blood of patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP), and explore the role of Th9, Th17 and Treg cells in the progression of CRSwNP.METHOD: Forty-six cases with CRSwNP served as an experimental group, while 22 cases with simple nasal bleeding or nasal septum deviation served as a control group. The peripheral blood of patients in both groups was collected and analyzed. (1) Using flow cytometry (FCM) to detect the expression rates of Th9, Th17 and Treg cells in peripheral blood. (2) Using qRT-PCR to detect the expression of relevant transcription factor of Th9, Th17 and Treg cells (IL-9mRNA, PU. 1, IRF-4, RoRc, and Foxp3). (3) Using SPSS16.0 to analyse the differentiations and the revelance among these three cells.RESULT: (1) The expression rates of Th9 and Th17 cells in patients with CRSwNP (1.29% ± 0.18%, 4.03% ± 0.69%) was higher than the control group (0.45% ± 0.14%, 1.35% ± 0.26%). But the expression rates of Treg cells in the experimental group (2.98% ± 0.13%) was significantly lower than the control group (5.44% ± 0.57%). The differences were statistically significant (P < 0.05). (2) The expression of revelant transcription factor (IL-9mRNA, PU.1, IRF-4, RoRc) in NP group was also higher than the control group. The expression of Foxp3 in the control group was higher than NP, the differences both were statistically significant (P < 0.05). (3) The difference between Th9 and Th17 in patients with NP was not significant (P > 0.05), and the negative correlation was found between Th17 and Treg (r = -0.549, P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: The high expression level of Th9 and Th17 cells might promote the development of NP, whereas the low expression level of Treg cells might further aggravate the occurrence of NP. The main function of the imbalance of Th17/Treg cells may be immune regulation in the pathogenesis of nasal polys.
Macrophage colony-stimulating factor 1 (CSF-1) plays a critical role in the differentiation of mononuclear phagocytes from bone marrow precursors, and maturing monocytes and macrophages exhibit increased expression of the CSF-1 receptor, CSF1R. The expression of CSF1R is tightly regulated by transcription factors and epigenetic mechanisms. We previously showed that prostaglandin E2 and subsequent activation of protein kinase A (PKA) inhibited CSF1R expression and macrophage maturation. Here, we examine the DNA methylation changes that occur at the Csf1r locus during macrophage maturation in the presence or absence of activated PKA. Murine bone marrow cells were matured to macrophages by incubating cells with CSF-1-containing conditioned medium for up to 6 days in the presence or absence of the PKA agonist 6-bnz-cAMP. DNA methylation of Csf1r promoter and enhancer regions was assayed by bisulphite pyrosequencing. DNA methylation of Csf1r decreased during normal macrophage maturation in concert with an increase in Csf1r mRNA expression. Treatment with the PKA agonist inhibited Csf1r mRNA and protein expression, and increased DNA methylation at the Csf1r promoter. This was associated with decreased binding of the transcription factor PU.1 to the Csf1r promoter. Treatment with the PKA agonist inhibited the responsiveness of macrophages to CSF-1. Levels of endogenous PKA activity decreased during normal macrophage maturation, suggesting that attenuation of this signalling pathway contributes to the increase in CSF1R expression during macrophage maturation. Together, these results demonstrate that macrophage maturation is accompanied by Csf1r hypomethylation, and illustrates for the first time the ability of PKA to increase Csf1r DNA methylation.
SIGNIFICANCE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) control cellular gene expression via primarily binding to 3' or 5' untranslated region of the target transcript leading to translational repression or mRNA degradation. In most cases, miRNAs have been observed to fine-tune the cellular responses and, therefore, act as a rheostat rather than an on/off switch. Transcription factor PU.1 is a master switch that controls monocyte/macrophage development from hematopoietic stem cells. Recent Advances: PU.1 induces a specific set of miRNAs while suppressing the miR17-92 cluster to regulate monocyte/macrophage development. In addition to development, miRNAs tightly control the macrophage polarization continuum from proinflammatory M1 or proreparative M2 by regulating expression of key transcription factors involved in the process of polarization.CRITICAL ISSUES: miRNAs are intricately involved with fine-tuning fundamental macrophage functions such as phagocytosis, efferocytosis, inflammation, tissue repair, and tumor promotion. Macrophages are secretory cells that participate in intercellular communication by releasing regulatory molecules and microvesicles (MVs). MVs are bilayered lipid membranes packaging a hydrophilic cargo, including proteins and nucleic acids. Macrophage-derived MVs carry functionally active miRNAs that suppress gene expression in target cells via post-transcriptional gene silencing, thus regulating cell function. In summary, miRNAs fine-tune several major facets of macrophage development and function. Such fine-tuning is critical in preventing exaggerated macrophage response to endogenous or exogenous stimuli.FUTURE DIRECTIONS: A critical role of miRNAs in the regulation of innate immune response and macrophage biology, including development, differentiation, and activation, has emerged. A clear understanding of such regulation on macrophage function remains to be elucidated. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 25, 795-804.
Nuclear segmentation is a hallmark feature of mammalian neutrophil differentiation, but the mechanisms that control this process are poorly understood. Gene expression in maturing neutrophils requires combinatorial actions of lineage-restricted and more widely expressed transcriptional regulators. Examples include interactions of the widely expressed ETS transcription factor, GA-binding protein (GABP), with the relatively lineage-restricted E-twenty-six (ETS) factor, PU.1, and with CCAAT enhancer binding proteins, C/EBPα and C/EBPε. Whether such cooperative interactions between these transcription factors also regulate the expression of genes encoding proteins that control nuclear segmentation is unclear. We investigated the roles of ETS and C/EBP family transcription factors in regulating the gene encoding the lamin B receptor (LBR), an inner nuclear membrane protein whose expression is required for neutrophil nuclear segmentation. Although C/EBPε was previously shown to bind the Lbr promoter, surprisingly, we found that neutrophils derived from Cebpe null mice exhibited normal Lbr gene and protein expression. Instead, GABP provided transcriptional activation through the Lbr promoter in the absence of C/EBPε, and activities supported by GABP were greatly enhanced by either C/EBPε or PU.1. Both GABP and PU.1 bound Ets sites in the Lbr promoter in vitro, and in vivo within both early myeloid progenitors and differentiating neutrophils. These findings demonstrate that GABP, PU.1, and C/EBPε cooperate to control transcription of the gene encoding LBR, a nuclear envelope protein that is required for the characteristic lobulated morphology of mature neutrophils.
The regulated differentiation of macrophages (mφs) and their subsequent activation into proinflammatory or prohealing subtypes is critical for efficient wound healing. Chronic wounds such as diabetic (db) ulcers are associated with dysregulation of macrophage function. Whereas non-db mφs polarize to an M2-like, prohealing phenotype during the late stages of healing, db-derived mφs continue to display an M1-like, proinflammatory, or a mixed M1-like/M2-like phenotype. We have previously shown that sustained expression of Hoxa3 reduces the excessive number of leukocytes within the db wound; however, the effect of Hoxa3 on mφ polarization was unknown. In this study, we show that Hoxa3 protein transduction of mφs in vitro enhances macrophage maturation, inhibits M1 polarization, and promotes M2 polarization, in part via regulation of Pu.1/Spi1 and Stat6. Sustained expression of Hoxa3 in vivo in db wounds reduces the number of Nos2(+) (M1-like) mφs, increases the number of Arg1(+) and VEGF(+) (M2-like) mφs, and accelerates healing in a DNA-binding independent manner. Our findings suggest a role for Hox protein activity in promoting M1-to-M2-like phenotypic switching via interactions with myeloid transcription factors and provide insight into mechanisms regulating this process in db wound healing.
CCR3 is a chemokine receptor that mediates the accumulation of allergic inflammatory cells, including eosinophils and Th2 cells, at inflamed sites. The regulatory sequence of the CCR3 gene, contains two Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) 1 sites and two PU.1 sites, in addition to a functional GATA site for transactivation of the CCR3 gene. In the present study, we examined the effects of the cis-acting elements of RUNX1 and PU.1 on transcription of the gene in EoL-1 eosinophilic cells and Jurkat T cells, both of which expressed functional surface CCR3 and these two transcription factors. Introduction of RUNX1 siRNA or PU.1 siRNA resulted in a modest decrease in CCR3 reporter activity in both cell types, compared with transfection of GATA-1 siRNA. Cotransfection of the two siRNAs led to inhibition in an additive manner. EMSA analysis showed that RUNX1, in particular, bound to its binding motifs. Mutagenesis analysis revealed that all point mutants lacking RUNX1- and PU.1-binding sites exhibited reduced reporter activities. These results suggest that RUNX1 and PU.1 participate in transcriptional regulation of the CCR3 gene.
BACKGROUND: Invasive aspergillosis is a life-threatening disease, and its incidence has increased in the recent past. Dectin-1 recognizes β-glucans and mediates innate immune responses to Aspergillus fumigatus. Transcription factor PU.1 has been the focus of recent research due to its role in inflammation and infection. However, its role in Dectin-1 regulation during A. fumigatus infection remains to be elucidated.METHODS: THP-1 cells were stimulated with A. fumigatus conidia. We then used real-time RT-PCR, Western blot, and immunofluorescence assays to analyze the mRNA and protein levels and cellular distribution, respectively, of Dectin-1 and PU.1 in stimulated THP-1 cells. Additionally, we used the luciferase reporter assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays, electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA), and RNA interference experiments to investigate the role of PU.1 in Dectin-1 regulation.RESULTS: Our results revealed that Dectin-1 mRNA and protein levels as well as the PU.1 protein level were increased in THP-1 cells stimulated with A. fumigatus conidia, while the mRNA expression level did not significantly change between the stimulated and control groups. We also observed that PU.1 translocated into the nucleus in stimulated THP-1 cells. The results of the luciferase reporter assay showed that PU.1 promoted human Dectin-1 (hDectin-1) gene activity. ChIP and EMSA indicated that PU.1 could bind with hDectin-1 gene promoter at three potential transcription factor-binding sites (TFBSs). In addition, knockdown of PU.1 significantly decreased Dectin-1 expression.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the novel role of PU.1 in the immune response to A. fumigatus through upregulation of Dectin-1 expression and its translocation to the nucleus in A. fumigatus-stimulated THP-1 cells.
Children exposed to abuse or neglect show abnormal hippocampal development and similar findings have been reported in rodent models. Using brief daily separation (BDS), a mouse model of early life stress, we previously showed that exposure to BDS impairs hippocampal function in adulthood and perturbs synaptic maturation, synaptic pruning, axonal growth and myelination in the developing hippocampus. Given that microglia are involved in these developmental processes, we tested whether BDS impairs microglial activity in the hippocampus of 14 (during BDS) and 28-day old mice (one week after BDS). We found that BDS increased the density and altered the morphology of microglia in the hippocampus of 14-day old pups, effects that were no longer present on postnatal day (PND) 28. Despite the normal cell number and morphology seen at PND28, the molecular signature of hippocampal microglia, assessed using the NanoString immune panel, was altered at both ages. We showed that during normal hippocampal development, microglia undergo significant changes between PND14 and PND28, including reduced cell density, decreased ex vivo phagocytic activity, and an increase in the expression of genes involved in inflammation and cell migration. However, microglia harvested from the hippocampus of 28-day old BDS mice showed an increase in phagocytic activity and reduced expression of genes that normally increase across development. Promoter analysis indicated that alteration in the transcriptional activity of PU.1, Creb1, Sp1, and RelA accounted for most of the transcriptional changes seen during normal microglia development and for most of the BDS-induced changes at PND14 and PND28. These findings are the first to demonstrate that early life stress dysregulates microglial function in the developing hippocampus and to identify key transcription factors that are likely to mediate these changes.
Recent studies suggest that coinhibitory receptors appear to be important in contributing sepsis-induced immunosuppression. Our laboratory reported that mice deficient in programmed cell death receptor (PD)-1 have increased bacterial clearance and improved survival in experimental sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). In response to infection, the liver clears the blood of bacteria and produces cytokines. Kupffer cells, the resident macrophages in the liver, are strategically situated to perform the above functions. However, it is not known if PD-1 expression on Kupffer cells is altered by septic stimuli, let alone if PD-1 ligation contributes to the altered microbial handling seen. Here we report that PD-1 is significantly upregulated on Kupffer cells during sepsis. PD-1-deficient septic mouse Kupffer cells displayed markedly enhanced phagocytosis and restoration of the expression of major histocompatibility complex II and CD86, but reduced CD80 expression compared with septic wild-type (WT) mouse Kupffer cells. In response to ex vivo LPS stimulation, the cytokine productive capacity of Kupffer cells derived from PD-1-/- CLP mice exhibited a marked, albeit partial, restoration of the release of IL-6, IL-12, IL-1β, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and IL-10 compared with septic WT mouse Kupffer cells. In addition, PD-1 gene deficiency decreased LPS-induced apoptosis of septic Kupffer cells, as indicated by decreased levels of cleaved caspase-3 and reduced terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end-labeling-positive cells. Exploring the signal pathways involved, we found that, after ex vivo LPS stimulation, septic PD-1-/- mouse Kupffer cells exhibited an increased Akt phosphorylation and a reduced p38 phosphorylation compared with septic WT mouse Kupffer cells. Together, these results indicate that PD-1 appears to play an important role in regulating the development of Kupffer cell dysfunction seen in sepsis.
Transactivation by the ETS family of transcription factors, whose members share structurally conserved DNA-binding domains, is variably sensitive to methylation of their target genes. The mechanism by which DNA methylation controls ETS proteins remains poorly understood. Uncertainly also pervades the effects of hemi-methylated DNA, which occurs following DNA replication and in response to hypomethylating agents, on site recognition by ETS proteins. To address these questions, we measured the affinities of two sequence-divergent ETS homologs, PU.1 and Ets-1, to DNA sites harboring a hemi- and fully methylated CpG dinucleotide. While the two proteins bound unmethylated DNA with indistinguishable affinity, their affinities to methylated DNA are markedly heterogeneous and exhibit major energetic coupling between the two CpG methylcytosines. Analysis of simulated DNA and existing co-crystal structures revealed that hemi-methylation induced non-local backbone and groove geometries that were not conserved in the fully methylated state. Indirect readout of these perturbations was differentially achieved by the two ETS homologs, with the distinctive interfacial hydration in PU.1/DNA binding moderating the inhibitory effects of DNA methylation on binding. This data established a biophysical basis for the pioneering properties associated with PU.1, which robustly bound fully methylated DNA, but not Ets-1, which was substantially inhibited.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: HOXA9 is a homeodomain transcription factor that plays an essential role in normal hematopoiesis and acute leukemia, in which its overexpression is strongly correlated with poor prognosis. The present review highlights recent advances in the understanding of genetic alterations leading to deregulation of HOXA9 and the downstream mechanisms of HOXA9-mediated transformation.RECENT FINDINGS: A variety of genetic alterations including MLL translocations, NUP98-fusions, NPM1 mutations, CDX deregulation, and MOZ-fusions lead to high-level HOXA9 expression in acute leukemias. The mechanisms resulting in HOXA9 overexpression are beginning to be defined and represent attractive therapeutic targets. Small molecules targeting MLL-fusion protein complex members, such as DOT1L and menin, have shown promising results in animal models, and a DOT1L inhibitor is currently being tested in clinical trials. Essential HOXA9 cofactors and collaborators are also being identified, including transcription factors PU.1 and C/EBPα, which are required for HOXA9-driven leukemia. HOXA9 targets including IGF1, CDX4, INK4A/INK4B/ARF, mir-21, and mir-196b and many others provide another avenue for potential drug development.SUMMARY: HOXA9 deregulation underlies a large subset of aggressive acute leukemias. Understanding the mechanisms regulating the expression and activity of HOXA9, along with its critical downstream targets, shows promise for the development of more selective and effective leukemia therapies.
Pin1 is an enzyme that specifically recognizes the peptide bond between phosphorylated serine or threonine (pS/pT-P) and proline. This recognition causes a conformational change of its substrate, which further regulates downstream signaling. Pin1-/- mice show developmental bone defects and reduced mineralization. Pin1 targets RUNX2 (Runt-Related Transcription Factor 2), SMAD1/5, and β-catenin in the FGF, BMP, and WNT pathways, respectively. Pin1 has multiple roles in the crosstalk between different anabolic bone signaling pathways. For example, it controls different aspects of osteoblastogenesis and increases the transcriptional activity of Runx2, both directly and indirectly. Pin1 also influences osteoclastogenesis at different stages by targeting PU.1 (Purine-rich nucleic acid binding protein 1), C-FOS, and DC-STAMP. The phenotype of Pin1-/- mice has led to the recent identification of multiple roles of Pin1 in different molecular pathways in bone cells. These roles suggest that Pin1 can be utilized as an efficient drug target in congenital and acquired bone diseases. J. Cell. Physiol. 232: 2339-2347, 2017. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
DOI: 10.1038/leu.2016.146PMCID: PMC5053841PMID: 27211263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
Erratum in    J Gastroenterol. 2017 Mar;52(3):396.
Olfactomedin 4 (OLFM4) is an olfactomedin domain-containing glycoprotein. Multiple signaling pathways and factors, including NF-κB, Wnt, Notch, PU.1, retinoic acids, estrogen receptor, and miR-486, regulate its expression. OLFM4 interacts with several other proteins, such as gene associated with retinoic-interferon-induced mortality 19 (GRIM-19), cadherins, lectins, nucleotide oligomerization domain-1 (NOD1) and nucleotide oligomerization domain-2 (NOD2), and cathepsins C and D, known to regulate important cellular functions. Recent investigations using Olfm4-deficient mouse models have provided important clues about its in vivo biological functions. Olfm4 inhibited Helicobacter pylori-induced NF-κB pathway activity and inflammation and facilitated H. pylori colonization in the mouse stomach. Olfm4-deficient mice exhibited enhanced immunity against Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus infection. Olfm4 deletion in a chronic granulomatous disease mouse model rescued them from S. aureus infection. Olfm4 deletion in mice treated with azoxymethane/dextran sodium sulfate led to robust intestinal inflammation and intestinal crypt hyperplasia. Olfm4 deletion in Apc (Min/+) mice promoted intestinal polyp formation as well as adenocarcinoma development in the distal colon. Further, Olfm4-deficient mice spontaneously developed prostatic epithelial lesions as they age. OLFM4 expression is correlated with cancer differentiation, stage, metastasis, and prognosis in a variety of cancers, suggesting its potential clinical value as an early-stage cancer marker or a therapeutic target. Collectively, these data suggest that OLFM4 plays important roles in innate immunity against bacterial infection, gastrointestinal inflammation, and cancer. In this review, we have summarized OLFM4's initial characterization, expression, regulation, protein interactions, and biological functions.
Although Hodgkin and Reed-Sternberg (HRS) cells of classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) derived from germinal or post germinal B cells, they have lost the B cell phenotype in the process of lymphomagenesis. The phenomenon can be at least partially explained by repression of B-cell-specific transcription factors including TCF3, early B-cell factor 1 (EBF1), SPI1/PU.1, and FOXO1, which are down-regulated by genetic and epigenetic mechanisms. The unique phenotype has been suspected to be advantageous for survival of HRS cells. Ectopic expression of some of these transcription factors (EBF1, PU.1, FOXO1) indeed impaired survival of cHL cells. Here we show that forced expression of TCF3 causes cell death and cell cycle arrest in cHL cell lines. Mechanistically, TCF3 overexpression modulated expression of multiple pro-apoptotic genes including BIK, APAF1, FASLG, BOK, and TNFRSF10A/DR4. We conclude that TCF3 inactivation contributes not only to extinguishing of B cell phenotype but also to cHL oncogenesis.
BACKGROUND: Long noncoding RNA HOX antisense intergenic RNA myeloid 1 (HOTAIRM1) has been characterized as a critical factor in all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-induced differentiation of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cells. However, the essential transcription factor for gene expression of HOTAIRM1 is still unknown.FINDINGS: Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays revealed that PU.1 constitutively bound to the regulatory region of HOTAIRM1. Co-expression of PU.1 led to the transactivation of the regulatory region of HOTAIRM1 in a reporter assay. Detailed analysis showed that two PU.1 motifs, which were located around +1100 bp downstream of the transcriptional start site of the HOTAIRM1 promoter, were responsible for the PU.1-dependent transactivation. The induction of HOTAIRM1 by ATRA was dependent on PU.1, and ectopic expression of PU.1 significantly up-regulated HOTAIRM1. Furthermore, low HOTAIRM1 expression was observed in APL cells, which was attributed to the reduced PU.1 expression rather than the repression by PML-RARα via the direct binding.CONCLUSION: PU.1 directly activates the expression of HOTAIRM1 through binding to the regulatory region of HOTAIRM1 during granulocytic differentiation. The reduced PU.1 expression, rather than PML-RARα itself, results in the low expression of HOTAIRM1 in APL cells. Our findings enrich the knowledge on the regulation of lncRNAs and the underlying mechanisms of the abnormal expression of lncRNAs involved in APL.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2016 Jun 21;17(7):742-3.
Limited evidence is available about the specific miRNA networks that regulate differentiation of specific immune cells. In this study, we characterized miRNA expression and associated alterations in expression with putative mRNA targets that are critical during differentiation of macrophages. In an effort to map the dynamic changes in the bone marrow (BM), we profiled whole BM cultures during differentiation into macrophages. We identified 112 miRNAs with expression patterns that were differentially regulated 5-fold or more during BMDM development. With TargetScan and MeSH databases, we identified 1267 transcripts involved in 30 canonical pathways linked to macrophage biology as potentially regulated by these specific 112 miRNAs. Furthermore, by employing miRanda and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) analysis systems, we identified 18 miRNAs that are temporally linked to the expression of CSF1R, CD36, MSR1 and SCARB1; 7 miRNAs linked to the regulation of the transcription factors RUNX1 and PU.1, and 14 miRNAs target the nuclear receptor PPARα and PPARγ. This novel information provides an important reference resource for further study of the functional links between miRNAs and their target mRNAs for the regulation of differentiation and function of macrophages.
Characterization of atmospheric aerosols collected in Monaco (2004-2008) and in sediment traps at 200 m and 1000 m water depths at the DYFAMED (Dynamics of Atmospheric Fluxes in the Mediterranean Sea) station (2004) was carried out to improve our understanding of the impact of Saharan dust on ground-level air and on the water column. Activity concentrations of natural (210Pb, 210Po, uranium and radium isotopes) and anthropogenic (137Cs, 239Pu, 240Pu, and 239+240Pu) radionuclides and their isotopic ratios confirmed a Saharan impact on the investigated samples. In association with a large particulate matter deposition event in Monaco on 20 February 2004, the 137Cs (∼40 Bq kg-1) and 239+240Pu (∼1 Bq kg-1) activities were almost a factor of two higher than other Saharan deposition dust events. This single-day particle flux represented 72% of the annual atmospheric deposition in Monaco. The annual deposition of Saharan dust on the sea was 232-407 mBq m-2 for 137Cs and 6.8-9.8 mBq m-2 for 239+240Pu and contributed significantly (28-37% for 137Cs and 34-45% for 239+240Pu) to the total annual atmospheric input to the northwest Mediterranean Sea. The 137Cs/239+240Pu activity ratios in dust samples collected during different Saharan dust events confirmed their global fallout origin or mixing with local re-suspended soil particles. In the sediment trap samples the 137Cs activity varied by a factor of two, while the 239+240Pu activity was constant, confirming the different behaviors of Cs (dissolved) and Pu (particle reactive) in the water column. The 137Cs and 239+240Pu activities of sinking particles during the period of the highest mass flux collected in 20 February 2004 at the 200 m and 1000 m water depths represented about 10% and 15%, respectively, of annual deposition from Saharan dust events.
Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) maintain lifelong blood production and increase blood cell numbers in response to chronic and acute injury. However, the mechanism(s) by which inflammatory insults are communicated to HSCs and their consequences for HSC activity remain largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that interleukin-1 (IL-1), which functions as a key pro-inflammatory 'emergency' signal, directly accelerates cell division and myeloid differentiation of HSCs through precocious activation of a PU.1-dependent gene program. Although this effect is essential for rapid myeloid recovery following acute injury to the bone marrow, chronic IL-1 exposure restricts HSC lineage output, severely erodes HSC self-renewal capacity, and primes IL-1-exposed HSCs to fail massive replicative challenges such as transplantation. Importantly, these damaging effects are transient and fully reversible on IL-1 withdrawal. Our results identify a critical regulatory circuit that tailors HSC responses to acute needs, and is likely to underlie deregulated blood homeostasis in chronic inflammation conditions.
In recent years, T helper (Th) 9 cells have been demonstrated to be key mediators in immune responses in asthmatic lungs, and innate lymphoid cells 2 (ILC2s) have been described as a novel type of innate immunocyte with the ability to enhance immunoglobulin E (IgE) production. However, the interaction between ILC2s and Th9 cells in the pulmonary system of a mouse model of asthma remains to be elucidated. In the present study, the response state of lung tissue with regards to Th9 and ILC2s in a mouse model of asthma was investigated by detecting Th9‑ and ILC2‑associated cytokine receptors. The present study also investigated the association between the expression levels of the cytokine receptors in lung tissue samples and the IgE levels in sera samples from mouse models of asthma. Results from the present study demonstrated that the frequency of ILC2s and Th9 cells was significantly increased in the lung tissue samples, indicating that a Th2-type immune response had occurred. In addition, high mRNA expression levels of RAR‑related orphan receptor α, interleukin 1 receptor‑like 1, transcription factor PU.1 and interleukin (IL)‑9 were observed. Furthermore, IL‑5Rα, IL‑13Rα2 and high‑affinity IgE receptor were increased in mouse models of asthma, and a positive association was observed between the expression levels of ILC2‑ or Th9‑associated receptors in tissue samples and IgE levels in the sera. This indicated that ILC2s and Th9 were in a state of polarization and may promote each other in the lung tissue of mouse models of asthma, and that the lung tissue was responding to the two types of cells via increased expression of receptors.
The cofactor CIITA is a master regulator of MHC class II expression and several transcription factors regulating the cell type-specific expression of CIITA have been identified. Although the MHC class II expression in plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) is also mediated by CIITA, the transcription factors involved in the CIITA expression in pDCs are largely unknown. In the present study, we analyzed the role of a hematopoietic lineage-specific transcription factor, PU.1, in CIITA transcription in pDCs. The introduction of PU.1 siRNA into mouse pDCs and a human pDC cell line, CAL-1, reduced the mRNA levels of MHC class II and CIITA. When the binding of PU.1 to the 3rd promoter of CIITA (pIII) in CAL-1 and mouse pDCs was analyzed by a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, a significant amount of PU.1 binding to the pIII was detected, which was definitely decreased in PU.1 siRNA-transfected cells. Reporter assays showed that PU.1 knockdown reduced the pIII promoter activity and that three Ets-motifs in the human pIII promoter were candidates of cis-enhancing elements. By electrophoretic mobility shift assays, it was confirmed that two Ets-motifs, GGAA (-181/-178) and AGAA (-114/-111), among three candidates, were directly bound with PU.1. When mouse pDCs and CAL-1 cells were stimulated by GM-CSF, mRNA levels of PU.1, pIII-driven CIITA, total CIITA, MHC class II, and the amount of PU.1 binding to pIII were significantly increased. The GM-CSF-mediated up-regulation of these mRNAs was canceled in PU.1 siRNA-introduced cells. Taking these results together, we conclude that PU.1 transactivates the pIII through direct binding to Ets-motifs in the promoter in pDCs.
MEK/ERK signal pathway was required for the differentiation of granulocytes, megakaryocytes and erythrocytes. Recently, MEK/ERK cascade was reported to be involved in all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) induced differentiation in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cells. However, the upstream and downstream molecules of MEK/ERK signal pathway in this cell model remains to be elucidated. In this work, we showed that RAF-1 was activated and the blockade of RAF-1 activation attenuated MEK/ERK activation as well as ATRA-induced differentiation. ATRA-enhanced protein levels of C/EBPβ, C/EBPε and PU.1, which were required for differentiation in APL cells, were suppressed by the specific inhibitor of MEK. However, MEK inhibition had no effect on the degradation of PML-RARα fusion protein or the restoration of PML nuclear bodies by ATRA treatment. Taken together, our study suggested that RAF-1/MEK/ERK cascade was involved in ATRA-induced differentiation in APL cells through enhancing the protein level of C/EBPβ, C/EBPε and PU.1.
BACKGROUND: Small molecule inhibitors of histone deacetylases (HDACi) hold promise as anticancer agents for particular malignancies. However, clinical use is often confounded by toxicity, perhaps due to indiscriminate hyperacetylation of cellular proteins. Therefore, elucidating the mechanisms by which HDACi trigger differentiation, cell cycle arrest, or apoptosis of cancer cells could inform development of more targeted therapies. We used the myelogenous leukemia line K562 as a model of HDACi-induced differentiation to investigate chromatin accessibility (DNase-seq) and expression (RNA-seq) changes associated with this process.RESULTS: We identified several thousand specific regulatory elements [~10 % of total DNase I-hypersensitive (DHS) sites] that become significantly more or less accessible with sodium butyrate or suberanilohydroxamic acid treatment. Most of the differential DHS sites display hallmarks of enhancers, including being enriched for non-promoter regions, associating with nearby gene expression changes, and increasing luciferase reporter expression in K562 cells. Differential DHS sites were enriched for key hematopoietic lineage transcription factor motifs, including SPI1 (PU.1), a known pioneer factor. We found PU.1 increases binding at opened DHS sites with HDACi treatment by ChIP-seq, but PU.1 knockdown by shRNA fails to block the chromatin accessibility and expression changes. A machine-learning approach indicates H3K27me3 initially marks PU.1-bound sites that open with HDACi treatment, suggesting these sites are epigenetically poised.CONCLUSIONS: We find HDACi treatment of K562 cells results in site-specific chromatin remodeling at epigenetically poised regulatory elements. PU.1 shows evidence of a pioneer role in this process by marking poised enhancers but is not required for transcriptional activation.
Acute erythroid leukemia (AEL) is characterized by lower incidence, poorer prognosis and worse survival than other types of leukemia and results from collaboration of malignant proliferation and erythroid differentiation blockage. The expression, function and therapeutic significance of noncoding RNAs in AEL have not been well studied. Here, we show that one miRNA cluster, including miR-23a, -27a and -24, is dramatically downregulated in AEL patients. Restoration of miR-23a, -27a and -24 expression induces apoptosis and erythropoiesis, inhibits adverse growth and partly relieves the leukemic symptoms of AEL patients. At the whole-genome scale, we identify that miR-23a, -27a and -24 synergistically target multiple members of the oncogenic gp130-JAK1-Stat3 pathway, and thus reinforce their inhibition on the cascade to regulate cell proliferation and apoptosis. Importantly, Ruxolitinib, a JAK1 inhibitor, could rescue the phenotypic changes induced by miR-23a, -27a and -24 inhibitors. Furthermore, miR-23a cluster-mediated-inactivation of the JAK1-Stat3 pathway promotes the expression and activity of GATA1 via inhibiting PU.1, thereby improving erythroid differentiation. Collectively, we reveal an important regulatory circuit comprising GATA1, the miR-23a cluster and gp130-JAK1-Stat3 pathway, that synergistically facilitates apoptosis and erythropoiesis and restrains adverse proliferation, indicating the therapeutic significance of miR-23a, -27a and -24 for AEL treatment.
Heterocyclic dications are receiving increasing attention as targeted inhibitors of transcription factors. While many dications act as purely competitive inhibitors, some fail to displace protein efficiently at drug concentrations expected to saturate their DNA target. To achieve a mechanistic understanding of these non-competitive effects, we used a combination of dications, which are intrinsically fluorescent and spectrally-separated fluorescently labeled DNA to dissect complex interactions in multi-component drug/DNA/protein systems. Specifically, we interrogated site-specific binding by the transcription factor PU.1 and its perturbation by DB270, a furan-bisbenzimidazole-diamidine that strongly targets PU.1 binding sites yet poorly inhibits PU.1/DNA complexes. By titrating DB270 and/or cyanine-labeled DNA with protein or unlabeled DNA, and following the changes in their fluorescence polarization, we found direct evidence that DB270 bound protein independently of their mutual affinities for sequence-specific DNA. Each of the three species competed for the other two, and this interplay of mutually dependent equilibria abrogated DB270's inhibitory activity, which was substantively restored under conditions that attenuated DB270/PU.1 binding. PU.1 binding was consistent with DB270's poor inhibitory efficacy of PU.1 in vivo, while its isosteric selenophene analog (DB1976), which did not bind PU.1 and strongly inhibited the PU.1/DNA complex in vitro, fully antagonized PU.1-dependent transactivation in vivo.
Human DNA helicase B (HELB/HDHB) regulates DNA replication through association with human DNA polymerase α-primase. In the present study, an 866-base pair (bp) of the 5'-flanking region of the human HELB gene-containing Luciferase (Luc) reporter plasmid, pHDHB-Luc was transfected into various cell lines and Luc activity was analyzed. Deletion analyses revealed that a 121-bp containing the major transcription start site (TSS) was essential for the basal promoter activity in all tested cells. TF-SEARCH analysis indicated that GC-box/Sp1 and duplicated GGAA-motifs containing putative STAT-x and c-ETS binding sites are located close to the TSS. Furthermore, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis showed that PU.1 and Sp1 bind to the 121-bp region. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blot analyses showed the HELB gene and protein expression was up-regulated by trans-Resveratrol (Rsv) treatment in HeLa S3 cells. Moreover, transfection experiment indicated that mutations on the GC-boxes and the duplicated GGAA-motif greatly reduced promoter activity and the response to Rsv in HeLa S3 cells. These results suggest that Rsv, which is a natural compound that has been found to elongate the lifespan of various organisms, regulates HELB promoter activity through co-operation of the GC-boxes and the duplicated GGAA-motif in the 121-bp.
GATA-1 and PU.1 are two important hematopoietic transcription factors that mutually inhibit each other in progenitor cells to guide entrance into the erythroid or myeloid lineage, respectively. PU.1 controls its own expression during myelopoiesis by binding to the distal URE enhancer, whose deletion leads to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We herein present evidence that GATA-1 binds to the PU.1 gene and inhibits its expression in human AML-erythroleukemias (EL). Furthermore, GATA-1 together with DNA methyl Transferase I (DNMT1) mediate repression of the PU.1 gene through the URE. Repression of the PU.1 gene involves both DNA methylation at the URE and its histone H3 lysine-K9 methylation and deacetylation as well as the H3K27 methylation at additional DNA elements and the promoter. The GATA-1-mediated inhibition of PU.1 gene transcription in human AML-EL mediated through the URE represents important mechanism that contributes to PU.1 downregulation and leukemogenesis that is sensitive to DNA demethylation therapy.
IRF8 and IRF1 are transcriptional regulators that play critical roles in the development and function of myeloid cells, including activation of macrophages by proinflammatory signals such as interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Loss of IRF8 or IRF1 function causes severe susceptibility to infections in mice and in humans. We used chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and RNA sequencing in wild type and inIRF8andIRF1mutant primary macrophages to systematically catalog all of the genes bound by (cistromes) and transcriptionally activated by (regulomes) IRF8, IRF1, PU.1, and STAT1, including modulation of epigenetic histone marks. Of the seven binding combinations identified, two (cluster 1 [IRF8/IRF1/STAT1/PU.1] and cluster 5 [IRF1/STAT1/PU.1]) were found to have a major role in controlling macrophage transcriptional programs both at the basal level and after IFN-γ activation. They direct the expression of a set of genes, the IRF8/IRF1 regulome, that play critical roles in host inflammatory and antimicrobial defenses in mouse models of neuroinflammation and of pulmonary tuberculosis, respectively. In addition, this IRF8/IRF1 regulome is enriched for genes mutated in human primary immunodeficiencies and with loci associated with several inflammatory diseases in humans.
Monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation plays a central role in the pathophysiology of rheumatoid arthritis (RA)-associated inflammation because it results in the secretions of various inflammatory mediators in inflamed synovium, and thus, this differentiation is viewed as a clinical target. We aimed to determine whether SIRT1 inhibits the differentiation of monocytes from RA patients into macrophages by suppressing PU.1 phosphorylation. Monocytes from synovial fluid of RA patients (RAMCs), THP-1 monocytes, and mouse bone marrow-derived monocytes (BMDCs) were studied. The phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-stimulated RA monocyte adherence was significantly inhibited by resveratrol (a SIRT1 activator), and this inhibition by resveratrol was prevented by pretreating cells with sirtinol (a SIRT1 inhibitor). Furthermore, resveratrol pretreatment inhibited PMA-induced expressions of macrophage surface markers (CD11b, CD14, and CD36) and PMA-induced NF-κB transcriptional activation and, thus, suppressed the secretions of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6). In SIRT1 transgenic (Tg) mice, monocyte differentiation was inhibited and NF-κB transcriptional activity was suppressed and the expressions of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 were decreased at the protein and mRNA levels versus control C57BL/6 mice. Furthermore, SIRT1 activation by resveratrol suppressed PMA-induced phosphorylation and the nuclear translocation of PU.1 and, thus, inhibited monocyte differentiation. In conclusion, SIRT1 appears to inhibit monocyte to macrophage differentiation by suppressing PU.1 phosphorylation and inflammatory signaling, which suggests SIRT1 plays a critical role in the regulation of synovial inflammation in RA.KEY MESSAGE: SIRT1 overexpression inhibits monocyte to macrophage differentiation. SIRT1 suppresses PU.1 phosphorylation. Inactivation of PU.1 phosphorylation inhibits monocyte differentiation. SIRT1 regulates inflammation by inhibiting NF-κB during monocyte differentiation.
Antagonistic interactions between transcription factors contribute to cell fate decisions made by multipotent hematopoietic progenitor cells. Concentration of the transcription factor PU.1 affects myeloid/lymphoid development with high levels of PU.1 directing myeloid cell fate acquisition at the expense of B cell differentiation. High levels of PU.1 may be required for myelopoiesis in order to overcome inhibition of its activity by transcription factors that promote B cell development. The B cell transcription factors, E2A and EBF, are necessary for commitment of multipotential progenitors and lymphoid primed multipotential progenitors to lymphocytes. In this report we hypothesized that factors required for early B cell commitment would bind to PU.1 and antagonize its ability to induce myeloid differentiation. We investigated whether E2A and/or EBF associate with PU.1. We observed that the E2A component, E47, but not EBF, directly binds to PU.1. Additionally E47 represses PU.1-dependent transactivation of the MCSFR promoter through antagonizing PU.1's ability to bind to DNA. Exogenous E47 expression in hematopoietic cells inhibits myeloid differentiation. Our data suggest that E2A antagonism of PU.1 activity contributes to its ability to commit multipotential hematopoietic progenitors to the lymphoid lineages.
The murine Cebpa gene contains a +37 kb, evolutionarily conserved 440 bp enhancer that directs high-level expression to myeloid progenitors in transgenic mice. The enhancer is bound and activated by Runx1, Scl, GATA2, C/EBPα, c-Myb, Pu.1, and additional Ets factors in myeloid cells. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated replacement of the wild-type enhancer with a variant mutant in its seven Ets sites leads to 20-fold reduction of Cebpa mRNA in the 32Dcl3 myeloid cell line. To determine the effect of deleting the enhancer in vivo, we now characterize C57BL/6 mice in which loxP sites flank a 688 bp DNA segment containing the enhancer. CMV-Cre mediated germline deletion resulted in diminution of the expected number of viable Enh(f/f);CMV-Cre offspring, with 28-fold reduction in marrow Cebpa mRNA but normal levels in liver, lung, adipose, intestine, muscle, and kidney. Cre-transduction of lineage-negative marrow cells in vitro reduced Cebpa mRNA 12-fold, with impairment of granulocytic maturation, morphologic blast accumulation, and IL-3 dependent myeloid colony replating for >12 generations. Exposure of Enh(f/f);Mx1-Cre mice to pIpC led to 14-fold reduction of Cebpa mRNA in GMP or CMP, 30-fold reduction in LSK, and <2-fold reduction in the LSK/SLAM subset. FACS analysis of marrow from these mice revealed 10-fold reduced neutrophils, 3-fold decreased GMP, and 3-fold increased LSK cells. Progenitor cell cycle progression was mildly impaired. Granulocyte and B lymphoid colony forming units were reduced while monocytic and erythroid colonies were increased, with reduced Pu.1 and Gfi1 and increased Egr1 and Klf4 in GMP. Finally, competitive transplantation indicated preservation of functional long-term hematopoietic stem cells upon enhancer deletion and confirmed marrow-intrinsic impairment of granulopoiesis and B cell generation with LSK and monocyte lineage expansion. These findings demonstrate a critical role for the +37 kb Cebpa enhancer for hematopoietic-specific Cebpa expression, with enhancer deletion leading to impaired myelopoiesis and potentially preleukemic progenitor expansion.
In vitro generation of mature neutrophils from human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) requires hematopoietic progenitor development followed by myeloid differentiation. The purpose of our studies was to extensively characterize this process, focusing on the critical window of development between hemogenic endothelium, hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs), and myeloid commitment, to identify associated regulators and markers that might enable the stem cell field to improve the efficiency and efficacy of iPSC hematopoiesis. We utilized a four-stage differentiation protocol involving: embryoid body (EB) formation (stage-1); EB culture with hematopoietic cytokines (stage-2); HSPC expansion (stage-3); and neutrophil maturation (stage-4). CD34(+) CD45(-) putative hemogenic endothelial cells were observed in stage-3 cultures, and expressed VEGFR-2/Flk-1/KDR and VE-cadherin endothelial markers, GATA-2, AML1/RUNX1, and SCL/TAL1 transcription factors, and endothelial/HSPC-associated microRNAs miR-24, miR-125a-3p, miR-126/126*, and miR-155. Upon further culture, CD34(+) CD45(-) cells generated CD34(+) CD45(+) HSPCs that produced hematopoietic CFUs. Mid-stage-3 CD34(+) CD45(+) HSPCs exhibited increased expression of GATA-2, AML1/RUNX1, SCL/TAL1, C/EBPα, and PU.1 transcription factors, but exhibited decreased expression of HSPC-associated microRNAs, and failed to engraft in immune-deficient mice. Mid-stage-3 CD34(-) CD45(+) cells maintained PU.1 expression and exhibited increased expression of hematopoiesis-associated miR-142-3p/5p and a trend towards increased miR-223 expression, indicating myeloid commitment. By late Stage-4, increased CD15, CD16b, and C/EBPɛ expression were observed, with 25%-65% of cells exhibiting morphology and functions of mature neutrophils. These studies demonstrate that hematopoiesis and neutrophil differentiation from human iPSCs recapitulates many features of embryonic hematopoiesis and neutrophil production in marrow, but reveals unexpected molecular signatures that may serve as a guide for enhancing iPSC hematopoiesis. Stem Cells 2016;34:1513-1526.
Comment in    Biol Reprod. 2016 May;94(5):100.
We identify a mutation (D262N) in the erythroid-affiliated transcriptional repressor GFI1B, in an acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patient with antecedent myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). The GFI1B-D262N mutant functionally antagonizes the transcriptional activity of wild-type GFI1B. GFI1B-D262N promoted myelomonocytic versus erythroid output from primary human hematopoietic precursors and enhanced cell survival of both normal and MDS derived precursors. Re-analysis of AML transcriptome data identifies a distinct group of patients in whom expression of wild-type GFI1B and SPI1 (PU.1) have an inverse pattern. In delineating this GFI1B-SPI1 relationship we show that (i) SPI1 is a direct target of GFI1B, (ii) expression of GFI1B-D262N produces elevated expression of SPI1, and (iii) SPI1-knockdown restores balanced lineage output from GFI1B-D262N-expressing precursors. These results table the SPI1-GFI1B transcriptional network as an important regulatory axis in AML as well as in the development of erythroid versus myelomonocytic cell fate.
Latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is a major oncogene essential for primary B cell transformation by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Previous studies suggested that some transcription factors, such as PU.1, RBP-Jκ, NF-κB, and STAT, are involved in this expression, but the underlying mechanism is unclear. Here, we identified binding sites for PAX5, AP-2, and EBF in the proximal LMP1 promoter (ED-L1p). We first confirmed the significance of PU.1 and POU domain transcription factor binding for activation of the promoter in latency III. We then focused on the transcription factors AP-2 and early B cell factor (EBF). Interestingly, among the three AP-2-binding sites in the LMP1 promoter, two motifs were also bound by EBF. Overexpression, knockdown, and mutagenesis in the context of the viral genome indicated that AP-2 plays an important role in LMP1 expression in latency II in epithelial cells. In latency III B cells, on the other hand, the B cell-specific transcription factor EBF binds to the ED-L1p and activates LMP1 transcription from the promoter.IMPORTANCE: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is crucial for B cell transformation and oncogenesis of other EBV-related malignancies, such as nasopharyngeal carcinoma and T/NK lymphoma. Its expression is largely dependent on the cell type or condition, and some transcription factors have been implicated in its regulation. However, these previous reports evaluated the significance of specific factors mostly by reporter assay. In this study, we prepared point-mutated EBV at the binding sites of such transcription factors and confirmed the importance of AP-2, EBF, PU.1, and POU domain factors. Our results will provide insight into the transcriptional regulation of the major oncogene LMP1.
T-lymphocyte development branches off from other lymphoid developmental programs through its requirement for sustained environmental signals through the Notch pathway. In the thymus, Notch signaling induces a succession of T-lineage regulatory factors that collectively create the T-cell identity through distinct steps. This process involves both the staged activation of T-cell identity genes and the staged repression of progenitor-cell-inherited regulatory genes once their roles in self-renewal and population expansion are no longer needed. With the recent characterization of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) that share transcriptional regulation programs extensively with T-cell subsets, T-cell identity can increasingly be seen as defined in modular terms, as the processes selecting and actuating effector function are potentially detachable from the processes generating and selecting clonally unique T-cell receptor structures. The developmental pathways of different classes of T cells and ILCs are distinguished by the numbers of prerequisites of gene rearrangement, selection, and antigen contact before the cells gain access to nearly common regulatory mechanisms for choosing effector function. Here, the major classes of transcription factors that interact with Notch signals during T-lineage specification are discussed in terms of their roles in these programs, the evidence for their spectra of target genes at different stages, and their cross-regulatory and cooperative actions with each other. Specific topics include Notch modulation of PU.1 and GATA-3, PU.1-Notch competition, the relationship between PU.1 and GATA-3, and the roles of E proteins, Bcl11b, and GATA-3 in guiding acquisition of T-cell identity while avoiding redirection to an ILC fate.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Intestinal transplantation is an effective treatment for end-stage bowel failure; however, graft rejection and the toxicity associated with non-specific immunosuppression are major limitations of this procedure. Studies have shown that mixed chimerism can produce post-transplantation immune tolerance. Here, we demonstrate that in rat intestinal transplantation, PU.1-silenced dendritic cells (DCs) plus bone marrow (BM) cell transfusion results in mixed chimerism, and we investigate the mechanisms responsible for the effects of mixed chimerism rejection.METHODS: In a model of intestinal transplantation, male Brown Norway rats were the donors, and female Lewis rats were the recipients that were randomly divided into 4 groups: control, BM, BM-imDCs and BM-PU.1. The dynamic changes in graft morphology, rejection scoring and serum concentrations of Th1/Th2-related cytokines were investigated on postoperative days 0, 7, 14, 21, and 30.RESULTS: The BM-PU.1 group had better graft health, milder pathologic injuries, and lower rejection grades compared with the other groups. The rates of mixed chimerism were significantly highest in the BM-PU.1 group and correlated with decreases in serum IL-2 and increases in serum IL-10.CONCLUSION: Transfusion of PU.1-silenced DCs and BM cells induces stable mixed chimerism and has the potential to reduce pathologic injuries via a pro-Th2 shift in the Th1/Th2 balance.
In hematopoietic system development, PU.1 and GATA-1 as lineage-specific transcription factors (TF) are expressed in common myeloid progenitors. The cross antagonism between them ascertains gene expression programs of monocytic and erythroid cells, respectively. This concept in transdifferentiation approaches has not been well considered yet, especially in intralineage conversion systems. To demonstrate whether PU.1 suppression induces monocyte lineage conversion into red blood cells, a combination of three PU.1-specific siRNAs was implemented to knock down PU.1 gene expression and generate the balance in favor of GATA-1 expression to induce erythroid differentiation. For this purpose, monocytes were isolated from human peripheral blood and transfected by PU.1 siRNAs. In transfected monocytes, the rate of PU.1 expression in mRNA level was significantly decreased until 0.38 ± 0.118 when compared to untreated monocytes at 72 h (p value ≤0.05) which resulted in significant overexpression of GATA1 of 16.1 ± 0.343-fold compared to the untreated group (p value ≤0.01). Subsequently, overexpression of hemoglobin (α 13.26 ± 1.34-fold; p value≤0.0001) and β-globin (37.55 ± 16.56-fold; p value≤0.0001) was observed when compared to control groups. The results of western immunoblotting confirm those findings too. While, reduced expression of monocyte, CD14 gene, was observed in qRT-PCR and flow cytometry results. Our results suggest that manipulating the ratio of the two TFs in bifurcation differentiation pathways via applying siRNA technology can possibly change the cells' fate as a safe way for therapeutics application.
Comment in    Cell Res. 2016 Feb;26(2):145-6.
BACKGROUND: T helper type 9 cells (Th9) are the most recently discovered subset of Th cells, and are involved in the pathology of several autoimmune and allergic diseases. The significance of Th9 cells in allergic rhinitis (AR) in Chinese patients is unclear.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the possible role of Th9 cells in AR in Chinese patients.METHODS: Th9 cells and related factors were assessed by measuring levels of interleukin-9 (IL-9), PU.1, interferon-regulatory factor 4 (IRF4), and numbers of Th9 cells. A Th9-polarized milieu was evaluated by determining the levels of IL-4 and transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Disease severity was assessed by rhino-conjunctivitis quality of life questionnaires (RQLQ), visual analog scale scores (VAS), and peripheral eosinophils (EOS) count.RESULTS: Levels of IL-4 and TGF-β1 were elevated in AR groups versus healthy controls (P < 0.05). Levels of IL-9, PU.1, IRF4, and the numbers of Th9 cells were also significantly higher in the AR groups (P < 0.05). Furthermore, positive correlations were identified between IL-9 levels and EOS expression, RQLQ, and VAS scores (P < 0.01).CONCLUSIONS: Th9 cells and their relative factors were elevated in AR patients. Levels of Th9 polarization-related factors were much higher in AR patients, and the severity of disease was associated with a more severe Th9 response. These results suggest that AR patients present a favorable environment for Th9 differentiation, and that Th9 cells may play a crucial role in the pathology of AR in Chinese patients.
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 1-Evi-1 is a chimeric gene generated by the t (3; 21) (q26; q22) translocation, which leads into malignant transformation of hematopoietic stem cells by unclear mechanisms. This in vivo study aimed to establish a stable line of zebrafish expressing the human RUNX1-Evi-1 fusion gene under the control of a heat stress-inducible bidirectional promoter, and investigate its roles in hematopoiesis and hematologic malignancies.METHODS: We introduced human RUNX1-Evi-1 fusion gene into embryonic zebrafish through a heat-shock promoter to establish Tg(RE:HSE:EGFP) zebrafish. Two males and one female mosaic F0 zebrafish embryos (2.1%) were identified as stable positive germline transgenic zebrafish.RESULTS: The population of immature myeloid cells and hematopoietic blast cells were accumulated in peripheral blood and single cell suspension from kidney of adult Tg(RE:HSE:EGFP) zebrafish. RUNX1-Evi-1 presented an intensive influence on hematopoietic regulatory factors. Consequently, primitive hematopoiesis was enhanced by upregulation of gata2 and scl, while erythropoiesis was downregulated due to the suppression of gata1. Early stage of myelopoiesis was flourishing with the high expression of pu.1, but it was inhibited along with the low expression of mpo. Microarray analysis demonstrated that RUNX1-Evi-1 not only upregulated proteasome, cell cycle, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, tyrosine metabolism, drug metabolism, and PPAR pathway, but also suppressed transforming growth factor β, Jak-STAT, DNA replication, mismatch repair, p53 pathway, JNK signaling pathway, and nucleotide excision repair. Interestingly, histone deacetylase 4 was significantly up-regulated. Factors in cell proliferation were obviously suppressed after 3-day treatment with histone deacetylase inhibitor, valproic acid. Accordingly, higher proportion of G1 arrest and apoptosis were manifested by the propidium iodide staining.CONCLUSION: RUNX1-Evi-1 may promote proliferation and apoptosis resistance of primitive hematopoietic cell, and inhibit the differentiation of myeloid cells with the synergy of different pathways and factors. VPA may be a promising choice in the molecular targeting therapy of RUNX1-Evi-1-related leukemia.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) treatment yields cure rates > 80% through proteasomal degradation of the PML-RARα fusion protein that typically promotes acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). However, recent evidence indicates that ATRA can also promote differentiation of leukemia cells that are PML-RARα negative, such as HL-60 cells. Here, gene expression profiling of HL-60 cells was used to investigate the alternative mechanism of impaired differentiation in APL. The expression of peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PADI4), encoding PAD4, a protein that post-translationally converts arginine into citrulline, was restored during ATRA-induced differentiation. We further identified that hypermethylation in the PADI4 promoter was associated with its transcriptional repression in HL-60 and NB4 (PML-RARα positive) cells. Functionally, PAD4 translocated into the nucleus upon ATRA exposure and promoted ATRA-mediated differentiation. Mechanistic studies using RNAi knockdown or electroporation-mediated delivery of PADI4, along with chromatin immunoprecipitation, helped identify PU.1 as an indirect target and SOX4 as a direct target of PAD4 regulation. Indeed, PAD4 regulates SOX4-mediated PU.1 expression, and thereby the differentiation process, in a SOX4-dependent manner. Taken together, our results highlight an association between PAD4 and DNA hypermethylation in APL and demonstrate that targeting PAD4 or regulating its downstream effectors may be a promising strategy to control differentiation in the clinic.
Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) such as thalidomide, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide are efficacious in the treatment of multiple myeloma and significantly prolong their survival. However, the mechanisms of such effects of IMiDs have not been fully elucidated. Recently, cereblon has been identified as a target binding protein of thalidomide. Lenalidomide-resistant myeloma cell lines often lose the expression of cereblon, suggesting that IMiDs act as an anti-myeloma agent through interacting with cereblon. Cereblon binds to damaged DNA-binding protein and functions as a ubiquitin ligase, inducing degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 that are essential transcription factors for B and T cell development. Degradation of both IKZF1 and IKZF3 reportedly suppresses myeloma cell growth. Here, we found that IMiDs act as inhibitors of DNA methyltransferases (DMNTs). We previously reported that PU.1, which is an ETS family transcription factor and essential for myeloid and lymphoid development, functions as a tumor suppressor in myeloma cells. PU.1 induces growth arrest and apoptosis of myeloma cell lines. In this study, we found that low-dose lenalidomide and pomalidomide up-regulate PU.1 expression through inducing demethylation of the PU.1 promoter. In addition, IMiDs inhibited DNMT1, DNMT3a, and DNMT3b activities in vitro. Furthermore, lenalidomide and pomalidomide decreased the methylation status of the whole genome in myeloma cells. Collectively, IMiDs exert demethylation activity through inhibiting DNMT1, 3a, and 3b, and up-regulating PU.1 expression, which may be one of the mechanisms of the anti-myeloma activity of IMiDs.
The transcription factor PU.1 is a member of the ETS family, which is expressed in a wide variety of hematopoietic lineages. Accumulating evidence has indicated that PU.1 plays a key role in hematopoiesis, and reduced expression of PU.1 leads to the pathogenesis of human myeloid leukemia. As a multi-functional factor, PU.1 is also required for mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) stem cell potential and the development of MLL. However, the function of PU.1 in human non-MLL leukemia and its molecular mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, PU.1 siRNA was demonstrated to efficiently inhibit the transcription level of oncogene MEIS1 in the human acute myeloid non-MLL leukemia U937 cell line. In addition, PU.1, as a positive regulator of MEIS1, performed a crucial role in maintaining cell proliferation. Using electrophoretic mobility shift assay, chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis and luciferase reporter assay, previously unexplored evidence that PU.1 activated the MEIS1 promoter through a conserved binding motif in vitro and in vivo was further defined. Overall, the present study provides insight into the molecular mechanism of the contribution of PU.1 to the pathogenesis of non-MLL U937 cells, which is mediated by direct regulation of MEIS1 transcription. The present data reveal the possibility of developing an alternative therapy for non-MLL leukemia by targeting PU.1-mediated MEIS1 gene activation.
Inflammation importantly contributes to the pathophysiology of Cardiovascular Disease (CVD). Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription (STAT)1 operates at the frontier of innate and adaptive immunity and its involvement in CVD has been widely appreciated. A unique role of STAT1 in cross-talk between the pro-inflammatory cytokine IFNγ and TLR4 activators (TLR4-A) has been uncovered in immune as well as vascular cells increasing inflammation. Interferon Regulatory Factor (IRF)8 whose expression was initially identified in immune cells, controls development and differentiation in close connection with PU.1. In addition, as a STAT1-target, IRF8 accounts for "immune cell-specific" STAT1-dependent functions of IFNγ and LPS. Novel studies prove that also in endothelial cells (ECs) and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), STAT1 and IRF8 orchestrate a transcriptional platform for cross-talk between IFNγ and TLR4-A, which leads to amplified pro-atherogenic responses in the vasculature. In addition to its known immune cell functions, this points to a novel "inflammation-dependent" role of IRF8 in vascular cells. In this review we present a summary of these findings and postulate STAT1- and IRF8-target genes as promising markers of vascular inflammation, and STAT1 and IRF8 as potential targets for the development of new immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory agents for the treatment of CVD.
Diverse T help (Th) cells play a crucial role in the processing and maintaining of chronic inflammation as seen in ulcerative colitis (UC). Th9, a novel subset of Th cells that primarily produces interleukin (IL)-9, has recently been associated with the development of inflammatory diseases. In this study, we evaluated the presentation of Th9 cells in inflamed tissues of human and experimental mouse UC, and examined the therapeutic efficiency of anti Th9 cytokine IL-9 in the experimental mouse UC. Using immunohistochemistry (IHC), we evaluated the presentation of Th9 cells labelled by transcriptional factor PU.1 in both human and dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) induced mouse colitis biopsies. The results showed that increased PU.1 positive Th9 cells were mainly located in the lamina propria in relative with the controls, intraepithelial Th9 cells can also be observed but at low density. Double IHCs revealed that most of PU.1 positive cells were CD3 positive lymphocytes in human UC specimens. Anti-IL-9 antibody injection for 2 weeks reduced the severity of inflammation in DSS induced colitis mice. Our results suggest that The Th9/IL-9 is involved in the pathogenesis of UC.
Src phosphorylates Runx1 on one central and four C-terminal tyrosines. We find that activated Src synergizes with Runx1 to activate a Runx1 luciferase reporter. Mutation of the four Runx1 C-terminal tyrosines to aspartate or glutamate to mimic phosphorylation increases trans-activation of the reporter in 293T cells and allows induction of Cebpa or Pu.1 mRNAs in 32Dcl3 myeloid cells, whereas mutation of these residues to phenylalanine to prevent phosphorylation obviates these effects. Three mechanisms contribute to increased Runx1 activity upon tyrosine modification as follows: increased stability, reduced histone deacetylase (HDAC) interaction, and increased DNA binding. Mutation of the five modified Runx1 tyrosines to aspartate markedly reduced co-immunoprecipitation with HDAC1 and HDAC3, markedly increased stability in cycloheximide or in the presence of co-expressed Cdh1, an E3 ubiquitin ligase coactivator, with reduced ubiquitination, and allowed DNA-binding in gel shift assay similar to wild-type Runx1. In contrast, mutation of these residues to phenylalanine modestly increased HDAC interaction, modestly reduced stability, and markedly reduced DNA binding in gel shift assays and as assessed by chromatin immunoprecipitation with the -14-kb Pu.1 or +37-kb Cebpa enhancers after stable expression in 32Dcl3 cells. Affinity for CBFβ, the Runx1 DNA-binding partner, was not affected by these tyrosine modifications, and in vitro translated CBFβ markedly increased DNA affinity of both the translated phenylalanine and aspartate Runx1 variants. Finally, further supporting a positive role for Runx1 tyrosine phosphorylation during granulopoiesis, mutation of the five Src-modified residues to aspartate but not phenylalanine allows Runx1 to increase Cebpa and granulocyte colony formation by Runx1-deleted murine marrow.
Despite its importance during viral or bacterial infections, transcriptional regulation of the interferon-β gene (Ifnb1) in activated macrophages is only partially understood. Here we report that TRIM33 deficiency results in high, sustained expression of Ifnb1 at late stages of toll-like receptor-mediated activation in macrophages but not in fibroblasts. In macrophages, TRIM33 is recruited by PU.1 to a conserved region, the Ifnb1 Control Element (ICE), located 15 kb upstream of the Ifnb1 transcription start site. ICE constitutively interacts with Ifnb1 through a TRIM33-independent chromatin loop. At late phases of lipopolysaccharide activation of macrophages, TRIM33 is bound to ICE, regulates Ifnb1 enhanceosome loading, controls Ifnb1 chromatin structure and represses Ifnb1 gene transcription by preventing recruitment of CBP/p300. These results characterize a previously unknown mechanism of macrophage-specific regulation of Ifnb1 transcription whereby TRIM33 is critical for Ifnb1 gene transcription shutdown.
Transcription factors that drive non-neoplastic myelomonocytic differentiation are well characterized but have not been systematically analyzed in the leukemic context. We investigated widely used, patient-derived myeloid leukemia cell lines with proclivity for differentiation into granulocytes by retinoic acid (RA) and/or monocytes by 1,25-dihyrdroxyvitamin D3 (D3). Using K562 (FAB M1), HL60 (FAB M2), RA-resistant HL60 sublines, NB4 (FAB M3), and U937 (FAB M5), we correlated nuclear transcription factor expression to immunophenotype, G1/G0 cell cycle arrest and functional inducible oxidative metabolism. We found that myelomonocytic transcription factors are aberrantly expressed in these cell lines. Monocytic-lineage factor EGR1 was not induced by D3 (the monocytic inducer) but instead by RA (the granulocytic inducer) in lineage bipotent myeloblastic HL60. In promyelocytic NB4 cells, EGR1 levels were increased by D3, while Gfi-1 expression (which promotes the granulocytic lineage) was upregulated during D3-induced monocytic differentiation in HL60, and by RA treatment in monocytic U937 cells. Furthermore, RARα and VDR expression were not strongly correlated to differentiation. In response to different differentiation inducers, U937 exhibited the most distinct transcription factor expression profile, while similarly mature NB4 and HL60 were better coupled. Overall, the differentiation induction agents RA and D3 elicited cell-specific responses across these common FAB M1-M5 cell lines.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) is a transcription factor that plays central roles in the regulation of myeloid cell fate. In both mice and humans, IRF8 is required for the differentiation of most monocyte and dendritic cell subsets, but suppresses neutrophil production. IRF8 mutations can cause immunodeficiency, and the dysregulated differentiation that underlies myeloid leukemia has been attributed in part to reduced IRF8 expression. In this review we discuss recent studies that have revealed molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of myelopoiesis by IRF8, which cooperates with other transcription factors to control the initiation of gene expression programs that define the development of specific myeloid cell subsets.RECENT FINDINGS: It is now clear that IRF8 regulates cell fate choice by both promoting monocyte/dendritic cell differentiation and suppressing neutrophil differentiation. Recent studies have shown that it collaborates with PU.1 to promote monocyte gene expression (in part via induction of Krüppel-like factor-4), associates with Batf3 to induce CD8α conventional dendritic cell differentiation via autoregulation of its own expression, and restricts neutrophil gene expression by disrupting the binding of c/EBPα to target genes.SUMMARY: These studies have emphasized the importance of IRF8 in the regulation of myelopoiesis and are revealing novel therapeutic targets.
Trans-differentiation of follicular lymphoma (FL) into a histiocytic sarcoma (HS) is a rare event and usually occurs as a sequential event. We report a case where in the same node with two distinct areas one of low-grade FL and another with HS was observed. This patient was a 58 years old with generalized lymphadenopathy and Ann Arbor Stage III disease. The cervical node biopsy on histological examination revealed two distinct areas, firstly a FL with nodular architecture and the other a smaller focus of sheets of pleomorphic histiocytic cells diffusely arranged at the edge of the section contiguous with FL with few cells in transiting phase. On immunohistochemistry the FL was positive for CD20, CD10, PU.1, PAX5 and Bcl2, while the large histiocytic cells were positive for CD163, CD68, LCA, and PU.1, weakly for PAX5 and negative for CD20, CD10, CD30, CD3, CD1a, Bcl2, S100, and Alk-1. The therapeutic implications of this diagnosis and postulated theories on trans-differentiation are discussed.
N-Myc downstream-regulated gene 2 (NDRG2), a member of the NDRG family of differentiation-related genes, has been characterized as a regulator of dendritic cell differentiation from monocytes, CD34(+) progenitor cells, and myelomonocytic leukemic cells. In this study, we show that NDRG2 overexpression inhibits the differentiation of U937 cells into osteoclasts in response to stimulation with a combination of macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and soluble receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL). U937 cells stably expressing NDRG2 are unable to differentiate into multinucleated osteoclast-like cells and display reduced tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activity and resorption pit formation. Furthermore, NDRG2 expression significantly suppresses the expression of genes that are crucial for the proliferation, survival, differentiation, and function of osteoclasts, including c-Fos, Atp6v0d2, RANK, and OSCAR. The activation of ERK1/2 and p38 is also inhibited by NDRG2 expression during osteoclastogenesis, and the inhibition of osteoclastogenesis by NDRG2 correlates with the down-regulation of the expression of the transcription factor PU.1. Taken together, our results suggest that the expression of NDRG2 potentially inhibits osteoclast differentiation and plays a role in modulating the signal transduction pathway responsible for osteoclastogenesis.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, General Hospital of Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300052, China.(2)Department of Hematology, General Hospital of Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300052, China. E-mail: shaozonghong@sina.com.
Poikiloderma with Neutropenia (PN) is an autosomal recessive genodermatosis characterized by early-onset poikiloderma, pachyonychia, hyperkeratosis, bone anomalies and neutropenia, predisposing to myelodysplasia. The causative C16orf57/USB1 gene encodes a conserved phosphodiesterase that regulates the stability of spliceosomal U6-RNA. The involvement of USB1 in splicing has not yet allowed to unveil the pathogenesis of PN and how the gene defects impact on skin and bone tissues besides than on the haematological compartment. We established a zebrafish model of PN using a morpholino-knockdown approach with two different splicing morpholinos. Both usb1-depleted embryos displayed developmental abnormalities recapitulating the signs of the human syndrome. Besides the pigmentation and osteochondral defects, usb1-knockdown caused defects in circulation, manifested by a reduced number of circulating cells. The overall morphant phenotype was also obtained by co-injecting sub-phenotypic dosages of the two morpholinos and could be rescued by human USB1 RNA. Integrated in situ and real-time expression analyses of stage-specific markers highlighted defects of primitive haematopoiesis and traced back the dramatic reduction in neutrophil myeloperoxidase to the myeloid progenitors showing down-regulated pu.1 expression. Our vertebrate model of PN demonstrates the intrinsic requirement of usb1 in haematopoiesis and highlights PN as a disorder of myeloid progenitors associated with bone marrow dysfunction.
Leukaemia is the prevailing neoplastic disorder of the hematopoietic system. Epidemiological analyses of the survivors of the Japanese atomic bombings show that exposure to ionising radiation (IR) can cause leukaemia. Although a clear association between radiation exposure and leukaemia development is acknowledged, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. A hemizygous deletion on mouse chromosome 2 (del2) is a common feature in several mouse strains susceptible to radiation-induced acute myeloid leukaemia (rAML). The deletion is an early event detectable 24h after exposure in bone marrow cells. Ultimately, 15-25% of exposed animals develop AML with 80-90% of cases carrying del2. Molecular mapping of leukaemic cell genomes identified a minimal deleted region (MDR) on chromosome 2 (chr2) in which a tumour suppressor gene, Sfpi1 is located, encoding the transcription factor PU.1, essential in haematopoiesis. The remaining copy of Sfpi1 has a point mutation in the coding sequence for the DNA-binding domain of the protein in 70% of rAML, which alters a single CpG sequence in the codon for arginine residue R235. In order to identify chr2 deletions and Sfpi.1/PU.1 loss, we performed array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) on a unique panel of 79rAMLs. Using a custom made CGH array specifically designed for mouse chr2, we analysed at unprecedentedly high resolution (1.4M array- 148bp resolution) the size of the MDR in low LET and high-LET induced rAMLs (32 X-ray- and 47 neutron-induced). Sequencing of Sfpi1/PU.1DNA binding domain identified the presence of R235 point mutations, showing no influence of radiation quality on R235 type or frequency. We identified for the first time rAML cases with complex del2 in a subset of neutron-induced AMLs. This study allowed us to re-define the MDR to a much smaller 5.5Mb region (still including Sfpi1/PU.1), identical regardless of radiation quality.
Chorioamnionitis, an inflammatory reaction of the fetal membranes to microbes, is an important cause of preterm birth and associated with inflammation-driven lung injury. However, inflammation in utero overcomes immaturity of the premature lung by inducing surfactant lipids and lung gas volume. Previously, we found that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chorioamnionitis resulted in pulmonary inflammation with increased effector T cells and decreased regulatory T cell (Treg) numbers. Because Tregs are crucial for immune regulation, we assessed the effects of interleukin (IL)-2-driven selective Treg expansion on the fetal lung in an ovine chorioamnionitis model. Instrumented fetuses received systemic prophylactic IL-2 treatment [118 days gestational age (dGA)] with or without subsequent exposure to intra-amniotic LPS (122 dGA). Following delivery at 129 dGA (term 147 dGA), pulmonary and systemic inflammation, morphological changes, lung gas volume, and phospholipid concentration were assessed. IL-2 pretreatment increased the FoxP3(+)/CD3(+) ratio, which was associated with reduced CD3-positive cells in the fetal lungs of LPS-exposed animals. Prophylactic IL-2 treatment did not prevent pulmonary accumulation of myeloperoxidase- and PU.1-positive cells or elevation of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid IL-8 and systemic IL-6 concentrations in LPS-exposed animals. Unexpectedly, IL-2 treatment improved fetal lung function of control lambs as indicated by increased disaturated phospholipids and improved lung gas volume. In conclusion, systemic IL-2 treatment in utero preferentially expanded Tregs and improved lung gas volume and disaturated phospholipids. These beneficial effects on lung function were maintained despite the moderate immunomodulatory effects of prophylactic IL-2 in the course of chorioamnionitis.
Human alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is a lethal parasitic infectious disease which may lead to liver failure if left untreated. It is caused by the larval stage of the fox tapeworm Echinococcus multilocularis and usually develops a substantial infiltrative occupation in solid organs. During the infection, T helper subsets are known to play crucial role in crosstalk between the parasite and human host. Th9 cells, a new member of CD4(+) T cell family which is characterized by its specific cytokine IL-9 and transcription factors PU.1 and IRF-4, have been known recently to have a critical role in allergic diseases, and cancers as well as the parasitic infection. To assess the potential role of Th9 cells during the infection, the mRNA levels of IL-9, PU.1, and IRF-4 both in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and in liver tissues were, respectively, detected by using real-time PCR. The plasma concentration levels of IL-9 were detected by using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Th9 related cytokine IL-9 and transcription factors PU.1 and IRF-4 mRNA levels elevated both in PBMCs, and in hepatic lesion and paralesion tissues in AE patients. This may facilitate the infiltrative growth of the parasite and its persistence in human host.
Dendritic cells (DC) are professional antigen presenting cells that develop from hematopoietic stem cells through successive steps of lineage commitment and differentiation. Multipotent progenitors (MPP) are committed to DC restricted common DC progenitors (CDP), which differentiate into specific DC subsets, classical DC (cDC) and plasmacytoid DC (pDC). To determine epigenetic states and regulatory circuitries during DC differentiation, we measured consecutive changes of genome-wide gene expression, histone modification and transcription factor occupancy during the sequel MPP-CDP-cDC/pDC. Specific histone marks in CDP reveal a DC-primed epigenetic signature, which is maintained and reinforced during DC differentiation. Epigenetic marks and transcription factor PU.1 occupancy increasingly coincide upon DC differentiation. By integrating PU.1 occupancy and gene expression we devised a transcription factor regulatory circuitry for DC commitment and subset specification. The circuitry provides the transcription factor hierarchy that drives the sequel MPP-CDP-cDC/pDC, including Irf4, Irf8, Tcf4, Spib and Stat factors. The circuitry also includes feedback loops inferred for individual or multiple factors, which stabilize distinct stages of DC development and DC subsets. In summary, here we describe the basic regulatory circuitry of transcription factors that drives DC development.
BACKGROUND: Previous in vitro and animal studies demonstrated that transcription factors p-STAT6 and PU.1 are required to induce interleukin (IL)-9 secretion by T helper (Th) 9 cells. It is believed that n factor-kappaB (NF-κB) plays a role in eosinophil survival. The importance of these transcription factors in the pathogenesis of allergic asthma (AA) in humans is poorly understood. We evaluated p-STAT6 and PU.1 expression in peripheral blood Th9 cells and NF-κB expression in eosinophils during late-phase airway inflammation in AA patients.METHODS: Nineteen adults with AA and 14 adult healthy individuals (HI) were examined. Peripheral blood collected 24 h before (baseline) and 24 h after bronchial allergen challenge. CD4(+) cells and eosinophils were isolated by high-density gradient centrifugation and magnetic separation. The percentage of Th9 cells and apoptotic eosinophils was estimated by flow cytometry. p-STAT6 and PU.1 expression was expressed as mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) in Th9 cells. NF-κB levels were expressed as MFI in peripheral blood eosinophils. Serum IL-9 and IL-5 levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.RESULTS: At baseline, MFI of p-STAT6 and PU.1 in peripheral blood Th9 cells and MFI of NF-κB in eosinophils and, serum IL-5 and IL-9 levels were greater in AA patients (P < 0.05). Decreased eosinophil apoptosis was seen in the AA group compared with HI (P < 0.05). MFI of p-STAT6, PU.1, and NF-κB and serum levels of IL-5 and IL-9 were increased in the AA group 24 h after challenge compared with baseline (P < 0.05). In the AA group, a correlation between serum IL-9 and Th9 cells (r = 0.7, P = 0.001) and MFI of PU.1 (r = 0.6, P = 0.01) 24 h after bronchial allergen challenge was observed. A correlation between Th9 cells and MFI of p-STAT6 (r = 0.45, P = 0.03) as well as MFI of PU.1 (r = 0.5, P = 0.02) 24 h after challenge was only observed in AA patients. A correlation between the MFI of NF-κB and eosinophil apoptosis was observed in AA patients 24 h before (r = - .46, P = 0.02) and after (r = -0.5, P = 0.02) challenge.DISCUSSIONS: p-STAT6 and PU.1 may be associated with Th9 cells and IL-9 production, whereas NF-κB and IL-5 may be associated with reduced eosinophil apoptosis in allergen-induced late-phase airway inflammation.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02214303.
Constitutive and inducible activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling facilitates the carcinogenesis in most human cancers including acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Negative regulators, such as protein tyrosine phosphatases SHP1, inhibit the activated STAT3 signaling. In this study, we investigated the effect of honokiol (HNK), a constituent of Magnolia officinalis, on the STAT3 signaling. STAT3 signaling and SHP1 expression were measured by quantitative real-time PCR and western blotting in leukemic cell lines and primary AML blasts treated with HNK. HNK decreased the phosphorylated STAT3 but not the total STAT3 through increasing the expression of SHP1. In addition, HNK inhibited transcription activity of STAT3, reduced nuclear translocation of STAT3, and decreased the expression of STAT3 target genes. Knockdown of SHP1 by small hairpin RNA (shRNA) or treatment with vanadate, a protein tyrosine phosphatases inhibitor, abolished HNK-induced STAT3 inhibition, suggesting that SHP1 plays an important role in the inhibition of STAT3 signaling by HNK. Further, HNK increased the expression of transcript factor PU.1, which had been reported to activate the expression of SHP1 via binding SHP1 promoter region. Knockdown of PU.1 reversed HNK-induced upregulation of SHP1 and inactivation of STAT3 signaling. Finally, HNK increased the expression of PU.1 and SHP1 in hematopoietic progenitors isolated from patients with AML. In conclusion, our data have shown a regulatory mechanism underlying the inhibition of STAT3 signaling by HNK. Therefore, as a relative non-toxic compound, HNK may offer a therapeutic advantage in the clinical treatment for AML.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are key initiators and regulators of the immune response. The development of the DC lineage and their subsets requires an orchestrated regulation of their transcriptional program. Gata1, a transcription factor expressed in several hematopoietic cell lineages, has been recently reported to be required for mouse DC development and function. In humans, GATA1 is involved in the lineage separation between monocyte-derived DCs and Langerhans cells (LC) and loss of GATA1 results in differentiation arrest at the monocyte stage. The hematopoietic GATA factors (i.e. Gata1, Gata2, Gata3) are known to regulate each other's expression and to function consecutively throughout lineage commitment (so-called GATA switch). In humans, mutations in GATA2 are causative of MonoMAC disease, a human immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by loss of DCs, monocytes, B and NK cells. However, additional data on the expression of hematopoietic GATA factors in the DC lineage is missing. In this study, we have characterized the expression of hematopoietic GATA factors in murine and human DCs and their expression dynamics upon TLR stimulation. We found that all hematopoietic GATA factors are expressed in DCs, but identified species-specific differences in the relative expression of each GATA factor, and how their expression fluctuates upon stimulation.
The clear connection between ribosome biogenesis dysfunction and specific hematopoiesis-related disorders prompted us to examine the role of critical lineage-specific transcription factors in the transcriptional regulation of ribosomal protein (RP) genes during terminal erythroid differentiation. By applying EMSA and ChIP methodologies in mouse erythroleukemia cells we show that GATA1 and PU.1 bind in vitro and in vivo the proximal promoter region of the RPS19 gene which is frequently mutated in Diamond-Blackfan Anemia. Moreover, ChIPseq data analysis also demonstrates that several RP genes are enriched as potential GATA1 and PU.1 gene targets in mouse and human erythroid cells, with GATA1 binding showing an association with higher ribosomal protein gene expression levels during terminal erythroid differentiation in human and mouse. Our results suggest that RP gene expression and hence balanced ribosome biosynthesis may be specifically and selectively regulated by lineage specific transcription factors during hematopoiesis, a finding which may be clinically relevant to ribosomopathies.
IL-28Rα and IL10Rβ collectively construct a fully functional hetero-dimeric receptor for type III interferons (IFNs). IL-28Rα is the private chain for type III IFNs since their involvement in any other pathway has not been reported yet and they are highly expressed in response to certain viral attack or cancers. IL-28Rα is specific in their expression pattern and it expresses within few cell types only. The regulatory mechanisms governing the expression of IL-28Rα at the molecular level are not completely known yet and need to be scrutinized at primary levels. In the present study, various in-silico techniques were applied and it was observed that AP1-2, STAT 1-6, P-53, LyF-1 (lymphoid transcription factor), c-Jun, PU.1, CREB (cAMP response element-binding), PLAG (pleotropic adenoma gene), MYOD (myoblast determination protein 1), NOFL and KLFS as transcription factors that are selected with preference. Interestingly AP-2, c-Jun, LyF-1, STAT, NF-Y and P53 have also been reported in literature recently as some of the key regulatory elements as well. Based on the fact that interlinking between different interferon stimulation genes (ISGs) is also not very clear and induction of one type of interferon can affect the efficacy of the other, we found that IFN-λ4 induction can increase the expression of IL-28Rα, similar to IFN-λ3 but contrary to type I IFNs, which has either no effect on the expression of IL-28Rα or can down regulate its expression at higher concentrations (data not published).
OBJECTIVES: Natural killer cells are immune safeguards against HCV infection. PU.1 is a pivotal transcription factor in the development of NK cells. This study aimed at studying the regulatory effect of miRNAs on both development and function of NK cells isolated from HCV patients.METHODS: NK cells were isolated from 17 chronic HCV patients and 12 healthy controls; after which miRNA and mRNA were quantified using qRT-PCR. Manipulating miRNA expression using mimics and antagomirs, was performed followed by investigating downstream targets as well as viral abundance.RESULTS: PU.1 expression levels were upregulated in NK cells of HCV patients. In silico analysis revealed PU.1 to be a potential downstream target of miR-29a(∗), where miR-29a(∗) overexpression in NK cells caused a significant downregulation in PU.1 mRNA. Forcing miR-29a(∗) caused a downregulation of the cytotoxicity determinant NK activating receptor (NKG2D) via upregulation of miR-155. Moreover, perforin-1 mRNA was found to be downregulated upon forcing the expression of miR-29a(∗) in NK cells of HCV patients. This decrease in NK cytolytic function was accompanied by an 80% viral load increase in cocultured HCVcc cell models.CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that HCV infection might abrogate NK cytotoxic potential through altering PU.1, NKG2D receptor and perforin molecules.
Mast cells (MCs), recognized as tissue-resident cells of hematopoietic origin, are involved in cellular and pathological manifestations of allergic disorders including atopic dermatitis. IL-33, a member of the IL-1 cytokine family, activates Th2-type immune responses, and promotes the degranulation and maturation of MCs. However, it is uncertain whether IL-33 treatment induces mature mast cells to acquire the characteristics of the monocyte-dendritic cell lineage.We investigated the effect of IL-33 on the MHC class II expression and function of murine mast cells. IL-33-treated mature murine bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMCs) were analyzed by FACS, real-time PCR, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay, and Western blotting. The morphology and degranulation activity of BMMCs and T-cell activation by BMMCs were also examined. BMMCs treated with IL-33 for 10 days induced cell surface expression of the MHC class II protein, whereas the expression of FcεRI and c-kit was not affected by IL-33. The expression of CIITA, driven from pIII and pIV, was up-regulated in IL-33-treated BMMCs. The amount of PU.1 mRNA and protein significantly increased in IL-33-treated BMMCs. The ChIP assay showed PU.1 binding to CIITA pIII, and enhanced histone acetylation due to IL-33 treatment. Syngeneic T cells were activated by co-culture with IL-33-treated BMMCs, although the expression of the co-stimulatory molecules, CD40, CD80, CD86, and PDL-1, was not detected. Mast cells express MHC class II after prolonged exposure to IL-33, probably due to enhanced recruitment of PU.1 to CIITA pIII, resulting in transactivation of CIITA and MHC class II. IL-33 is an important cytokine in allergic disorders. Mast cells have the ability to express MHC class II after prolonged exposure to IL-33 in a murine model. IL-33 holds a key to understanding the etiology of atopic dermatitis.
Alveolar macrophages (AMs) are critical for immunity against influenza A virus (IAV) infection. Depletion, hyporeactivity, and disruption of AM development and differentiation are all associated with lethal IAV infection. AMs drive the innate immune response that limits IAV infection. AMs are crucial for steady-state homeostasis of pulmonary surfactant, and in turn surfactant proteins regulate AMs and participate in host defense against IAV. Known factors that are necessary for AM function and differentiation in vivo include surfactant proteins, the growth factor GM-CSF, the hormone receptor PPARγ, and the transcription factors PU.1 and Bach2. Although PU.1 and PPARγ are downstream effectors of GM-CSF, Bach2 works independently. GM-CSF and Bach2-deficient AMs have phenotypes with immature or alternatively activated states of differentiation, respectively, and both extremes are unsuitable for surfactant homeostasis. The activation state of AMs and the local microenvironment may determine the development of symptomatic versus asymptomatic IAV infection in different individuals.
IRF4 is a unique member of the interferon regulatory factor (IRF) family playing critical regulatory roles in immune cell development, regulation of obesity-induced inflammation, and control of thermogenic gene expression. The ability of IRF4 to control diverse transcriptional programs arises from its proficiency to interact with numerous transcriptional partners. In this study, we present the structural characterization of full-length IRF4. Using a combination of x-ray and small angle x-ray scattering studies, we reveal unique features of the interferon activation domain, including a set of β-sheets and loops that serve as the binding site for PU.1, and also show that unlike other IRF members, IRF4 has a flexible autoinhibitory region. In addition, we have determined the small angle x-ray scattering solution structure of full-length IRF4, which, together with circular dichroism studies, suggests that the linker region is not extended but folds into a domain structure.
We carried out an integrative analysis of enhancer landscape and gene expression dynamics during hematopoietic differentiation using DNase-seq, histone mark ChIP-seq and RNA sequencing to model how the early establishment of enhancers and regulatory locus complexity govern gene expression changes at cell state transitions. We found that high-complexity genes-those with a large total number of DNase-mapped enhancers across the lineage-differ architecturally and functionally from low-complexity genes, achieve larger expression changes and are enriched for both cell type-specific and transition enhancers, which are established in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and maintained in one differentiated cell fate but lost in others. We then developed a quantitative model to accurately predict gene expression changes from the DNA sequence content and lineage history of active enhancers. Our method suggests a new mechanistic role for PU.1 at transition peaks during B cell specification and can be used to correct assignments of enhancers to genes.
Currently, therapy for squamous cancer (SqC) is unsatisfactory. Staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) has strong immune regulatory activity. This study tests the hypothesis that SEB enforces the effect of immunotherapy on SqC growth in a mouse model. C3H/HeN mice and the SqC cell line squamous cell carcinoma VII were used to create an SqC mouse model. Immune cell assessment was performed by flow cytometry. Real-time RT-PCR and western blotting were used to evaluate target molecule expression. An apoptosis assay was used to assess the suppressive effect of T helper-9 (Th9) cells on the SqC cells. The results showed that immunotherapy consisting of SEB plus SqC antigen significantly inhibited SqC growth in the mice. The frequency of Th9 cells was markedly increased in the SqC tissue and mouse spleens after treatment. SEB markedly increased the levels of signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 phosphorylation and the expression of histone deacetylase-1 (HDAC1) and PU.1 (the transcription factor of the interleukin 9 (IL-9) gene) in CD4+ T cells. Exposure to SqC-specific Th9 cells markedly induced SqC cell apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo. In conclusion, the administration of SEB induces Th9 cells in SqC-bearing mice, and theseTh9 cells inhibit SqC growth.
Protein abundance must be precisely regulated throughout life, and nowhere is the stringency of this requirement more evident than during T-cell development: A twofold increase in the abundance of transcription factor GATA3 results in thymic lymphoma, while reduced GATA3 leads to diminished T-cell production. GATA3 haploinsufficiency also causes human HDR (hypoparathyroidism, deafness, and renal dysplasia) syndrome, often accompanied by immunodeficiency. Here we show that loss of one Gata3 allele leads to diminished expansion (and compromised development) of immature T cells as well as aberrant induction of myeloid transcription factor PU.1. This effect is at least in part mediated transcriptionally: We discovered that Gata3 is monoallelically expressed in a parent of origin-independent manner in hematopoietic stem cells and early T-cell progenitors. Curiously, half of the developing cells switch to biallelic Gata3 transcription abruptly at midthymopoiesis. We show that the monoallelic-to-biallelic transcriptional switch is stably maintained and therefore is not a stochastic phenomenon. This unique mechanism, if adopted by other regulatory genes, may provide new biological insights into the rather prevalent phenomenon of monoallelic expression of autosomal genes as well as into the variably penetrant pathophysiological spectrum of phenotypes observed in many human syndromes that are due to haploinsufficiency of the affected gene.
Little is known about the susceptibility to acute myeloid leukemia. We aim to search non-protein coding regions of key hematopoiesis transcription factors for genetic variations associated with acute myeloid leukemia susceptibility. We genotyped SNPs of RUNX1 P1 promoter, P2 promoter, +23 enhancer, intron 5.2 enhancer, PU.1 promoter, CEBPA promoter, and CEBPE promoter from acute myeloid leukemia patients and healthy controls. Rs2249650 and rs2268276 at RUNX1 intron 5.2 enhancer were found to be associated with acute myeloid leukemia susceptibility. Artificial reporters containing different rs2249650 and rs2268276 alleles showed differential activities in the K562 cell line, a human immortalized myeloid leukemia line. Rs2249650 contributes to reporter activities more than rs2268276. Gel shift assay is consistent with the luciferase assay. Supershift assay indicated that one potential binding protein was PU.1. To sum up, rs2268276 and especially rs2249650 may be qualified as new acute myeloid leukemia susceptibility-associated SNPs.
PU.1 is an ETS family transcription factor that is important for the development of multiple hematopoietic cell lineages. Previous work demonstrated a critical role for PU.1 in promoting Th9 development and in limiting Th2 cytokine production. Whether PU.1 has functions in other Th lineages is not clear. In this study, we examined the effects of ectopic expression of PU.1 in CD4(+) T cells and observed decreased expression of genes involved with the function of T follicular helper (Tfh) cells, including Il21 and Tnfsf5 (encoding CD40L). T cells from conditional mutant mice that lack expression of PU.1 in T cells (Sfpi1(lck-/-)) demonstrated increased production of CD40L and IL-21 in vitro. Following adjuvant-dependent or adjuvant-independent immunization, we observed that Sfpi1(lck-/-) mice had increased numbers of Tfh cells, increased germinal center B cells (GCB cells), and increased Ab production in vivo. This correlated with increased expression of IL-21 and CD40L in Tfh cells from Sfpi1(lck-/-) mice compared with control mice. Finally, although blockade of IL-21 did not affect GCB cells in Sfpi1(lck-/-) mice, anti-CD40L treatment of immunized Sfpi1(lck-/-) mice decreased GCB cell numbers and Ag-specific Ig concentrations. Together, these data indicate an inhibitory role for PU.1 in the function of Tfh cells, germinal centers, and Tfh-dependent humoral immunity.
© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.
The transcription factor PU.1 is predominantly expressed in dendritic cells (DCs) and is essential for DC differentiation. Although there are several reports that PU.1 positively regulates the expression of DC-specific genes, whether PU.1 also has a suppressive effect on DCs is largely unknown. Here we demonstrate that PU.1 suppresses the expression of Th2 cytokines including IL-13 and IL-5 in bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs), through repression of the expression of GATA3, which is a master regulator of Th2 differentiations. When PU.1 siRNA was introduced into BMDCs, LPS-induced expression of IL-13 and IL-5 was increased along with upregulation of the constitutive expression of GATA2 and GATA3. The additional introduction of GATA3 siRNA but not of GATA2 siRNA abrogated PU.1 siRNA-mediated upregulation of IL-13 and IL-5. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that PU.1 bound to Gata3 proximal promoter region, which is more dominant than the distal promoter in driving GATA3 transcription in DCs. The degree of histone acetylation at the Gata3 promoter was decreased in PU.1 siRNA-introduced DCs, suggesting the involvement of PU.1 in chromatin modification of the Gata3 promoter. Treatment with a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, trichostatin A, increased the degree of histone H3 acetylation at the Gata3 promoter and induced the subsequent expression of GATA3. Experiments using HDAC inhibitors and siRNAs showed that HDAC3 suppressed GATA3 expression. The recruitment of HDAC3 to the Gata3 promoter was decreased by PU.1 knockdown. LPS-induced IL-13 expression was dramatically reduced in BMDCs generated from mice lacking the conserved GATA3 response element, termed CGRE, which is an essential site for the binding of GATA3 on the Il-13 promoter. The degree of H3K4me3 at CGRE was significantly increased in PU.1 siRNA-transfected stimulated DCs. Our results indicate that PU.1 plays pivotal roles in DC development and function, serving not only as a transcriptional activator but also as a repressor.
Modest transcriptional changes caused by genetic or epigenetic mechanisms are frequent in human cancer. Although loss or near-complete loss of the hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1 induces acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in mice, a similar degree of PU.1 impairment is exceedingly rare in human AML; yet, moderate PU.1 inhibition is common in AML patients. We assessed functional consequences of modest reductions in PU.1 expression on leukemia development in mice harboring DNA lesions resembling those acquired during human stem cell aging. Heterozygous deletion of an enhancer of PU.1, which resulted in a 35% reduction of PU.1 expression, was sufficient to induce myeloid-biased preleukemic stem cells and their subsequent transformation to AML in a DNA mismatch repair-deficient background. AML progression was mediated by inhibition of expression of a PU.1-cooperating transcription factor, Irf8. Notably, we found marked molecular similarities between the disease in these mice and human myelodysplastic syndrome and AML. This study demonstrates that minimal reduction of a key lineage-specific transcription factor, which commonly occurs in human disease, is sufficient to initiate cancer development, and it provides mechanistic insight into the formation and progression of preleukemic stem cells in AML.
Mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a signal transduction pathway that modulates translation initiation in several animals including mammals. Rapamaycin, an allosteric inhibitor of mTOR pathway, is often used as an immunosuppressive drug following kidney transplantation and causes gonadal dysfunction and defects in spermatogenesis. The molecular mechanism behind rapamycin-mediated testicular dysfunction is not known. We have therefore explored the contribution of rapamycin in mTOR regulation and microRNA (miRNA) expression in mouse spermatocytes, the intermediate stage of spermatogenesis, where meiosis takes place. In the present study, we optimized the isolation of highly pure and viable spermatocytes by flow sorting, treated them with rapamycin, and investigated the expression of mTOR and downstream effector molecules. Western blot and immunocytochemical analysis confirm that rapamycin treatment suppresses mTOR and phopsphorylated P70S6 kinase activities in spermatocytes, but not that of phosphorylated 4E-binding protein 1. Also, rapamycin treatment modulates the expression of several spermatocyte-specific miRNAs. To complement these finding an in vivo study was also performed. In silico prediction of target genes of these miRNAs and their functional pathway analysis revealed that, several of them are involved in crucial biological process, cellular process and catalytic activities. miRNA-transcription factor (TF) network analysis enlisted different TFs propelling the transcription machineries of these miRNAs. In silico prediction followed by quatitative real-time PCR revealed two of these TFs namely, PU.1 and CCCTC binding factor (CTCF) are down and upregulated, respectively, which may be the reason of the altered expression of miRNAs following rapamycin treatment. In conclusion, for the first time, the present study provides insight into how rapamycin regulates mTOR pathway and spermatocyte-specific miRNA expression which in turn, regulate expression of target genes post-transcriptionally.
T lymphoid-primed progenitors are hematopoietic progenitors destined to enter the thymus. The in vivo characterization of these embryonic progenitors is challenging, however, due to the intrauterine development of mouse embryos. Thus, how the fate of these cells is determined has not been fully defined in mammals. Here we use zebrafish embryos to show that the homing of T lymphoid-primed progenitors to the thymus is impaired, concomitant with a decrease in ccr9a expression, in the absence of irf4a. Strikingly, fate mapping assays at the single-cell level showed a fate change of irf4a-deficient T lymphoid-primed progenitors to myeloid cells, accompanied by an increase in Pu.1 expression. These data indicate that in addition to regulating ccr9a expression, Irf4a is essential in T lymphoid-primed progenitors for repressing Pu.1 expression to prevent an alternate fate. Our findings provide insight into the fate determination mechanism of T lymphoid-primed progenitors.
Comment in    Cell. 2015 Aug 27;162(5):942-3.    Nat Rev Genet. 2015 Oct;16(10):563.
Comment in    Cancer Cell. 2015 Aug 10;28(2):147-9.
The transcription factor PU.1 and its inhibitory microRNA-155 (miR-155) are important regulators of B-cell differentiation. PU.1 downregulation coupled with oncogenic miR-155 upregulation has been reported in lymphoid malignancies; however, these data have not been studied across different subtypes in relation to clinical outcomes. We studied expression of miR-155 and PU.1 in the six most prevalent human B-cell lymphomas (n = 131) including aggressive (DLBCL, HL, MCL) and indolent (B-CLL/SLL, MZL, FL) types. Levels of miR-155 and PU.1 inversely correlated in DLBCL, B-CLL/SLL, and FL tumor tissues. In HL tissues, an exceptionally high level of miR-155 was found in patients with unfavorable responses to first-line therapy and those who had shorter survival times. PU.1 downregulation was noted in B-CLL/SLL samples positive for the adverse prognostic markers CD38 and ZAP-70. Upregulation of miR-155 and downregulation of PU.1 expression are integral aspects of lymphoma biology that could mark aggressive behavior of some, but not all, lymphoma types.
Transcription-factor-induced somatic cell conversions are highly relevant for both basic and clinical research yet their mechanism is not fully understood and it is unclear whether they reflect normal differentiation processes. Here we show that during pre-B-cell-to-macrophage transdifferentiation, C/EBPα binds to two types of myeloid enhancers in B cells: pre-existing enhancers that are bound by PU.1, providing a platform for incoming C/EBPα; and de novo enhancers that are targeted by C/EBPα, acting as a pioneer factor for subsequent binding by PU.1. The order of factor binding dictates the upregulation kinetics of nearby genes. Pre-existing enhancers are broadly active throughout the hematopoietic lineage tree, including B cells. In contrast, de novo enhancers are silent in most cell types except in myeloid cells where they become activated by C/EBP factors. Our data suggest that C/EBPα recapitulates physiological developmental processes by short-circuiting two macrophage enhancer pathways in pre-B cells.
The Microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) is a basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper family factor that is essential for terminal osteoclast differentiation. Previous work demonstrates that phosphorylation of MITF by p38 MAPK downstream of Receptor Activator of NFkB Ligand (RANKL) signaling is necessary for MITF activation in osteoclasts. The spontaneous Mitf cloudy eyed (ce) allele results in production of a truncated MITF protein that lacks the leucine zipper and C-terminal end. Here we show that the Mitf(ce) allele leads to a dense bone phenotype in neonatal mice due to defective osteoclast differentiation. In response to RANKL stimulation, in vitro osteoclast differentiation was impaired in myeloid precursors derived from neonatal or adult Mitf(ce/ce) mice. The loss of the leucine zipper domain in Mitf(ce/ce) mice does not interfere with the recruitment of MITF/PU.1 complexes to target promoters. Further, we have mapped the p38 MAPK docking site within the region deleted in Mitf(ce). This interaction is necessary for the phosphorylation of MITF by p38 MAPK. Site-directed mutations in the docking site interfered with the interaction between MITF and its co-factors FUS and BRG1. MITF-ce fails to recruit FUS and BRG1 to target genes, resulting in decreased expression of target genes and impaired osteoclast function. These results highlight the crucial role of signaling dependent MITF/p38 MAPK interactions in osteoclast differentiation.
OBJECTIVE: IL-9 has been shown to be upregulated before the clinical onset of articular disease in RA. The exact role of IL-9 and Th9 cells in RA, however, has not yet been adequately studied. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression of IL-9 and IL-9-expressing cells in RA patients.METHODS: IL-9, IL-9R, PU.1, IL-9, thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP), IL-4 and TGF-β expression was assessed by real-time-PCR in the synovial tissues of RA and OA patients. IL-9, IL-9R, IL-4, TSLP and TGF-β were also investigated by immunohistochemistry. Peripheral CD4(+) T cell subsets were studied by flow cytometry analysis before and after incubation with citrullinated peptides.RESULTS: IL-9 was overexpressed in RA synovial tissues and correlated with the degree of histological organization of B and T cells in ectopic lymphoid structures. The majority of IL-9-producing cells were identified as CD3(+) cells. Increased mRNA and protein expression of IL-9R, IL-4, TSLP and TGF-β was also observed in RA synovial tissue. Blood peripheral Th9 cells were expanded by citrullinated peptides.CONCLUSION: These results indicate that Th9 cells and IL-9 were frequently detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and synovia of RA patients. A possible pathogenic role for Th9 in RA is discussed.
Osteoclasts are bone-specific multinucleated cells generated by differentiation of monocyte/macrophage hematopoietic lineages and degrade bone matrix by secretion of lytic enzymes. The regulation of osteoclast differentiation provides a potential strategy for treatment of bone-lytic damage. In this study, cilostazol, an inhibitor of type III phosphodiesterase, inhibited RANKL [receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B (RANK) ligand]-induced RANK expression in bone marrow-derived monocyte/macrophage precursors (BMMs) and Raw 264.7 cells by inhibiting PU.1 via SIRT1 activation. RANKL-induced RANK expression was attenuated by cilostazol and rSIRT1 in Raw 264.7 cells, and these were blocked by sirtinol. In line with these, cilostazol elevated SIRT1 mRNA and protein levels in 12-24h and increased SIRT1 activity, and these effects were inhibited by sirtinol. Furthermore, the RANKL-induced nuclear expression of PU.1, a transcription factor required for macrophage differentiation, was suppressed by cilostazol. Additionally, marked RANKL-induced RANK immunofluorescence staining in Raw 264.7 cells was attenuated by cilostazol and rSIRT1, and both attenuations were prevented by sirtinol. Extensive RANK staining of knee synovial tissues in a mouse model of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) was markedly reduced by cilostazol (30mg/kg/day). In line with these results, both RANKL- and M-CSF-induced differentiation of BMMs to multinucleated TRAP(+) giant cells and resorption pit formation were inhibited by cilostazol associated with a decrease in TRAP (a marker enzyme of osteoclasts) activity. In conclusion, cilostazol activates SIRT1, which suppresses the nuclear translocation of PU.1, and thus, inhibits RANKL-stimulated RANK expression and causes anti-osteoclast formation in BMMs in vitro and in their murine model of CIA.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are emerging as important regulators in mammalian development, but little is known about their roles in monocyte/macrophage differentiation. Here we identified a long noncoding monocytic RNA (lnc-MC) that exhibits increased expression during monocyte/macrophage differentiation of THP-1 and HL-60 cells as well as CD34(+) hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) and is transcriptionally activated by PU.1. Gain- and loss-of-function assays demonstrate that lnc-MC promotes monocyte/macrophage differentiation of THP-1 cells and CD34(+) HSPCs. Mechanistic investigation reveals that lnc-MC acts as a competing endogenous RNA to sequester microRNA 199a-5p (miR-199a-5p) and alleviate repression on the expression of activin A receptor type 1B (ACVR1B), an important regulator of monocyte/macrophage differentiation. We also noted a repressive effect of miR-199a-5p on lnc-MC expression and function, but PU.1-dominant downregulation of miR-199a-5p weakens the role of miR-199a-5p in the reciprocal regulation between miR-199a-5p and lnc-MC. Altogether, our work demonstrates that two PU.1-regulated noncoding RNAs, lnc-MC and miR-199a-5p, have opposing roles in monocyte/macrophage differentiation and that lnc-MC facilitates the differentiation process, enhancing the effect of PU.1, by soaking up miR-199a-5p and releasing ACVR1B expression. Thus, we reveal a novel regulatory mechanism, comprising PU.1, lnc-MC, miR-199a-5p, and ACVR1B, in monocyte/macrophage differentiation.
Ikaros, a zinc finger transcription factor, is an important regulator of the hematopoietic system. Several studies have suggested the role of Ikaros in the development, maturation, activation and differentiation of lymphocytes. To elucidate this mechanism, it is important to understand how this transcription factor works in the dichotomy of the hematopoietic system, a topic that remains uncertain. Herein, we investigated the role of Ikaros in the control of the lymphomyeloid phenotype of B-1 lymphocytes. We found that Ikaros, as well as its target genes, are expressed in B-1 cells,. Moreover, Ikaros positively regulates the expression of Flt3, Gfi and Il7r, while it down-regulates PU.1. During the induction of differentiation of B-1 cells toward phagocytes, Ikaros transcription was reduced. Taken together, these data pointed to the relevance of Ikaros in the maintenance of the promiscuous gene profile of B-1 cells. It could be suggested that Ikaros functions as a guardian of B-1 lymphoid pattern, and that its absence directs the differentiation of B-1 cells into phagocytes.
Transcriptional dysregulation is associated with haematological malignancy. Although mutations of the key haematopoietic transcription factor PU.1 are rare in human acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), they are common in murine models of radiation-induced AML, and PU.1 downregulation and/or dysfunction has been described in human AML patients carrying the fusion oncogenes RUNX1-ETO and PML-RARA. To study the transcriptional programmes associated with compromised PU.1 activity, we adapted a Pu.1-mutated murine AML cell line with an inducible wild-type PU.1. PU.1 induction caused transition from leukaemia phenotype to monocytic differentiation. Global binding maps for PU.1, CEBPA and the histone mark H3K27Ac with and without PU.1 induction showed that mutant PU.1 retains DNA-binding ability, but the induction of wild-type protein dramatically increases both the number and the height of PU.1-binding peaks. Correlating chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) Seq with gene expression data, we found that PU.1 recruitment coupled with increased histone acetylation induces gene expression and activates a monocyte/macrophage transcriptional programme. PU.1 induction also caused the reorganisation of a subgroup of CEBPA binding peaks. Finally, we show that the PU.1 target gene set defined in our model allows the stratification of primary human AML samples, shedding light on both known and novel AML subtypes that may be driven by PU.1 dysfunction.
BACKGROUND: The transcription factors NFATc1 and PU.1 play important roles in osteoclast development. NFATc1 and PU.1 transactivate osteoclast-specific gene expression and a deficiency in NFATc1 or PU.1 genes causes osteopetrosis due to an insufficient development of osteoclasts. However, the existence of cross-regulation between NFATc1 and PU.1 is largely unknown. In the present study, the role of PU.1 in NFATc1 expression was investigated.METHODS: Osteoclasts were generated from mouse bone marrow cells. PU.1 knockdown was performed with siRNA introduction. The mRNA levels in siRNA-introduced cells were determined by quantitative RT-PCR. The involvement of PU.1 in the NFATc1 promoter was analyzed by using a chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay and a reporter assay. Retrovirus vector was used for enforced expression of PU.1.RESULTS: Introduction of PU.1 siRNA into bone marrow-derived osteoclasts resulted in a decrease in NFATc1 mRNA level. A ChIP assay showed that PU.1 bound to the NFATc1 promoter in osteoclasts. NFATc1 promoter activity was reduced in PU.1 knockdown cells as assessed by a reporter assay. PU.1 siRNA introduction also downregulated the expression of osteoclast-specific genes and tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activity. Enforced expression of PU.1 using a retrovirus vector increased NFATc1 expression and TRAP activity. When NFATc1 expression was knocked down by using siRNA, the induction of osteoclast-specific genes and TRAP-positive cells was suppressed without affecting the expression level of PU.1.CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that PU.1 is involved in osteoclast development by transactivating NFATc1 expression via direct binding to the NFATc1 promoter.
NF-κB is an important regulator of both differentiation and function of lineage-committed hematopoietic cells. Targeted deletion of IκB kinase (IKK) β results in altered cytokine signaling and marked neutrophilia. To investigate the role of IKKβ in regulation of hematopoiesis, we employed Mx1-Cre mediated IKKβ conditional knockout mice. As previously reported, deletion of IKKβ in hematopoietic cells results in neutrophilia, and we now also noted decreased monocytes and modest anemia. Granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (GMPs) accumulated markedly in bone marrow of IKKβ deleted mice whereas the proportion and number of megakaryocyte-erythrocyte progenitors (MEP) decreased. Accordingly, we found a significantly reduced frequency of proerythroblasts and basophilic and polychromatic erythroblasts, and IKKβ-deficient bone marrow cells yielded a significantly decreased number of BFU-E compared to wild type. These changes are associated with elevated expression of C/EBPα, Gfi1, and PU.1 and diminished Gata1, Klf1, and SCL/Tal1 in IKKβ deficient Lineage-Sca1+c-Kit+ (LSK) cells. In contrast, no effect on erythropoiesis or expression of lineage-related transcription factors was found in marrow lacking NF-κB p65. Bone marrow from IKKβ knockout mice has elevated numbers of phenotypic long and short term hematopoietic stem cells (HSC). A similar increase was observed when IKKβ was deleted after marrow transplantation into a wild type host, indicating cell autonomous expansion. Myeloid progenitors from IKKβ- but not p65-deleted mice demonstrate increased serial replating in colony-forming assays, indicating increased cell autonomous self-renewal capacity. In addition, in a competitive repopulation assay deletion of IKKβ resulted in a stable advantage of bone marrow derived from IKKβ knockout mice. In summary, loss of IKKβ resulted in significant effects on hematopoiesis not seen upon NF-κB p65 deletion. These include increased myeloid and reduced erythroid transcription factors, skewing differentiation towards myeloid over erythroid differentiation, increased progenitor self-renewal, and increased number of functional long term HSCs. These data inform ongoing efforts to develop IKK inhibitors for clinical use.
Exon 16 inclusion is a critical splicing event that triggers the production of a functional protein 4.1R in mature normal erythroblasts, and is obviated in PU.1-induced erythroleukemia cells. Exon 16 contains an exonic splicing silencer (ESS16) that interacts with hnRNP A/B in heterologous cell context. We here show that ESS16 promotes the recruitment of a protein complex containing hnRNP A1 and a 79-kDa protein in nuclear extracts from either proliferative erythroleukemia cells or cells induced to terminal differentiation. By using 2D gel fractionation and mass spectrometry, we unambiguously identified KSRP as the 79-kDa component interacting with ESS16. Furthermore, we show that KSRP slightly decreases in erythroleukemia cells induced to terminal erythroid differentiation. Yet, KSRP inducible knockdown, through stable transfection of small hairpin KSRP RNA, did not alter exon 16 splicing, suggesting that KSRP alone does not modulate the splicing event. Interestingly, absence of hnRNP A1 prevented KSRP from binding to ESS16. Reciprocally, KSRP interaction with ESS16 was recovered when hnRNP A1 expression is restored in hnRNP A1-null cells. Collectively, this study establishes that hnRNPA1 is part of a KSRP-containing RNP complex, and emphasizes that, aside from its function in AU-rich element-mediated mRNA decay and its role in microRNA biogenesis, KSRP associates with hnRNP A1 to bind an ESS. These findings further support the role of members of the KH-domain protein family in organizing large RNA-protein complex formation, rather than primarily in modulating specific splicing events.
The transcription factor PU.1 is involved in regulation of macrophage differentiation and maturation. However, the role of PU.1 in alternatively activated macrophage (AAM) and asthmatic inflammation has yet been investigated. Here we report that PU.1 serves as a critical regulator of AAM polarization and promotes the pathological progress of asthmatic airway inflammation. In response to the challenge of DRA (dust mite, ragweed, and Aspergillus) allergens, conditional PU.1-deficient (PU/ER(T)(+/-)) mice displayed attenuated allergic airway inflammation, including decreased alveolar eosinophil infiltration and reduced production of IgE, which were associated with decreased mucous glands and goblet cell hyperplasia. The reduced asthmatic inflammation in PU/ER(T)(+/-) mice was restored by adoptive transfer of IL-4-induced wild-type (WT) macrophages. Moreover, after treating PU/ER(T)(+/-) mice with tamoxifen to rescue PU.1 function, the allergic asthmatic inflammation was significantly restored. In vitro studies demonstrate that treatment of PU.1-deficient macrophages with IL-4 attenuated the expression of chitinase 3-like 3 (Ym-1) and resistin-like molecule alpha 1 (Fizz-1), two specific markers of AAM polarization. In addition, PU.1 expression in macrophages was inducible in response to IL-4 challenge, which was associated with phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6). Furthermore, DRA challenge in sensitized mice almost abrogated gene expression of Ym-1 and Fizz-1 in lung tissues of PU/ER(T)(+/-) mice compared with WT mice. These data, all together, indicate that PU.1 plays a critical role in AAM polarization and asthmatic inflammation.
Comment in    Immunol Cell Biol. 2015 Sep;93(8):681-2.
Neutrophil-specific granule deficiency (SGD) is a rare autosomal recessive primary immunodeficiency characterized by neutrophil dysfunction, bilobed neutrophil nuclei and lack of neutrophil-specific granules. Defects in a myeloid-specific transcription factor, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-ε (C/EBPε), have been identified in two cases in which homozygous frameshift mutations led to loss of the leucine zipper domain. In this study, we report a 55-y-old woman affected with SGD caused by a novel homozygous 2-aa deletion (ΔRS) in the leucine zipper domain of the C/EBPε gene. The patient showed characteristic neutrophil abnormalities and recurrent skin infections; however, there was no history of deep organ infections. Biochemical analysis revealed that, in contrast to the two frameshift mutations, the ΔRS mutant maintained normal cellular localization, DNA-binding activity, and dimerization, and all three mutants exhibited marked reduction in transcriptional activity. The ΔRS mutant was defective in its association with Gata1 and PU.1, as well as aberrant cooperative transcriptional activation of eosinophil major basic protein. Thus, the ΔRS likely impairs protein-protein interaction with other transcription factors, resulting in a loss of transcriptional activation. These results further support the importance of the leucine zipper domain of C/EBPε for its essential function, and indicate that multiple molecular mechanisms lead to SGD.
Lineage-specific transcription factors (TFs) are important determinants of cellular identity, but their exact mode of action has remained unclear. Here we show using a macrophage differentiation system that the lineage-specific TF PU.1 keeps macrophage-specific genes accessible during differentiation by preventing Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) binding to transcriptional regulatory elements. We demonstrate that the distal enhancer of a gene becomes bound by PRC2 as cells differentiate in the absence of PU.1 binding and that the gene is wrapped into heterochromatin, which is characterized by increased nucleosome occupancy and H3K27 trimethylation. This renders the gene inaccessible to the transcriptional machinery and prevents induction of the gene in response to an external signal in mature cells. In contrast, if PU.1 is bound at the transcriptional regulatory region of a gene during differentiation, PRC2 is not recruited, nucleosome occupancy is kept low, and the gene can be induced in mature macrophages. Similar results were obtained at the enhancers of other macrophage-specific genes that fail to bind PU.1 as an estrogen receptor fusion (PUER) in this system. These results show that one role of PU.1 is to exclude PRC2 and to prevent heterochromatin formation at macrophage-specific genes.
Microglia form the immune system of the brain. Previous studies in cell cultures and animal models suggest altered activation states and cellular senescence in the aged brain. Instead, we analyzed 3 transcriptome data sets from the postmortem frontal cortex of 381 control individuals to show that microglia gene markers assemble into a transcriptional module in a gene coexpression network. These markers predominantly represented M1 and M1/M2b activation phenotypes. Expression of genes in this module generally declines over the adult life span. This decrease was more pronounced in microglia surface receptors for microglia and/or neuron crosstalk than in markers for activation state phenotypes. In addition to these receptors for exogenous signals, microglia are controlled by brain-expressed regulatory factors. We identified a subnetwork of transcription factors, including RUNX1, IRF8, PU.1, and TAL1, which are master regulators (MRs) for the age-dependent microglia module. The causal contributions of these MRs on the microglia module were verified using publicly available ChIP-Seq data. Interactions of these key MRs were preserved in a protein-protein interaction network. Importantly, these MRs appear to be essential for regulating microglia homeostasis in the adult human frontal cortex in addition to their crucial roles in hematopoiesis and myeloid cell-fate decisions during embryogenesis.
Invasion and metastasis is the major cause of tumor recurrence, difficulty for cure and low survival rate. Excavating key transcription factors, which can regulate tumor invasion and metastasis, are crucial to the development of therapeutic strategies for cancers. PU.1 is a master hematopoietic transcription factor and a vital regulator in life. Here, we report that, compared to adjacent non-cancerous tissues, expression of PU.1 mRNA in metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but not primary HCC, was significantly down-regulated. In addition, levels of PU.1 mRNA in metastatic hepatoma cell lines MHCC97L and MHCC97H were much lower than in non-metastatic Hep3B cells. Transwell invasion assays after PU.1 siRNA transfection showed that the invasion of hepatoma cell lines was increased markedly by PU.1 knockdown. Oppositely, overexpression of PU.1 suppressed the invasion of these cells. However, knockdown and overexpression of PU.1 did not influence proliferation. Finally, we tried to explore the potential mechanism of PU.1 suppressing hepatoma cell invasion. ChIP-qPCR analysis showed that PU.1 exhibited a high binding capacity with miR-615-5p promoter sequence. Overexpression of PU.1 caused a dramatic increase of pri-, pre- and mature miR-615-5p, as well as a marked decrease of miR-615-5p target gene IGF2. These data indicate that PU.1 inhibits invasion of human HCC through promoting miR-615-5p and suppressing IGF2. These findings improve our understanding of PU.1 regulatory roles and provided a potential target for metastatic HCC diagnosis and therapy.
Monocytes are short-lived cells and undergo spontaneous apoptosis every day. Inflammatory responses may induce dramatic up-regulation of monocyte survival and differentiation. When monocytes are recruited to an area of infection they may differentiate into macrophages. In different microenvironments macrophages polarize into two types. The M1 or classically activated macrophages are characterized by the high ability to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines and the production of NO through the induced synthesis of iNOS. The M2 or alternatively activated macrophages are divided into 3 subtypes, M2 a, b and c, and they have anti-inflammatory properties. Mediators of M1 macrophage TLR-dependent polarization include transcription factors such as NF-κB, AP-1, PU.1, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBP-α), STAT1 as well as interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), while the transcription factors which promote M2 activation include IRF4, C/EBP-β, Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4), STAT6 and PPARγ receptor.
The bromodomain and extraterminal (BET) protein BRD4 is a validated drug target in leukemia, yet its regulatory function in this disease is not well understood. Here, we show that BRD4 chromatin occupancy in acute myeloid leukemia closely correlates with the hematopoietic transcription factors (TFs) PU.1, FLI1, ERG, C/EBPα, C/EBPβ, and MYB at nucleosome-depleted enhancer and promoter regions. We provide evidence that these TFs, in conjunction with the lysine acetyltransferase activity of p300/CBP, facilitate BRD4 recruitment to their occupied sites to promote transcriptional activation. Chemical inhibition of BET bromodomains was found to suppress the functional output of each hematopoietic TF, thereby interfering with essential lineage-specific transcriptional circuits in this disease. These findings reveal a chromatin-based signaling cascade comprised of hematopoietic TFs, p300/CBP, and BRD4 that supports leukemia maintenance and is suppressed by BET bromodomain inhibition.
High levels of microRNA-155 (miR-155) are associated with poor outcome in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In AML, miR-155 is regulated by NF-κB, the activity of which is, in part, controlled by the NEDD8-dependent ubiquitin ligases. We demonstrate that MLN4924, an inhibitor of NEDD8-activating enzyme presently being evaluated in clinical trials, decreases binding of NF-κB to the miR-155 promoter and downregulates miR-155 in AML cells. This results in the upregulation of the miR-155 targets SHIP1, an inhibitor of the PI3K/Akt pathway, and PU.1, a transcription factor important for myeloid differentiation, leading to monocytic differentiation and apoptosis. Consistent with these results, overexpression of miR-155 diminishes MLN4924-induced antileukemic effects. In vivo, MLN4924 reduces miR-155 expression and prolongs the survival of mice engrafted with leukemic cells. Our study demonstrates the potential of miR-155 as a novel therapeutic target in AML via pharmacologic interference with NF-κB-dependent regulatory mechanisms. We show the targeting of this oncogenic microRNA with MLN4924, a compound presently being evaluated in clinical trials in AML. As high miR-155 levels have been consistently associated with aggressive clinical phenotypes, our work opens new avenues for microRNA-targeting therapeutic approaches to leukemia and cancer patients.
BACKGROUND: Mouse models are useful for studying cigarette smoke (CS)-induced chronic pulmonary pathologies such as lung emphysema. To enhance translation of large-scale omics data from mechanistic studies into pathophysiological changes, we have developed computational tools based on reverse causal reasoning (RCR).OBJECTIVE: In the present study we applied a systems biology approach leveraging RCR to identify molecular mechanistic explanations of pathophysiological changes associated with CS-induced lung emphysema in susceptible mice.METHODS: The lung transcriptomes of five mouse models (C57BL/6, ApoE (-/-) , A/J, CD1, and Nrf2 (-/-) ) were analyzed following 5-7 months of CS exposure.RESULTS: We predicted 39 molecular changes mostly related to inflammatory processes including known key emphysema drivers such as NF-κB and TLR4 signaling, and increased levels of TNF-α, CSF2, and several interleukins. More importantly, RCR predicted potential molecular mechanisms that are less well-established, including increased transcriptional activity of PU.1, STAT1, C/EBP, FOXM1, YY1, and N-COR, and reduced protein abundance of ITGB6 and CFTR. We corroborated several predictions using targeted proteomic approaches, demonstrating increased abundance of CSF2, C/EBPα, C/EBPβ, PU.1, BRCA1, and STAT1.CONCLUSION: These systems biology-derived candidate mechanisms common to susceptible mouse models may enhance understanding of CS-induced molecular processes underlying emphysema development in mice and their relevancy for human chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
In the present research, we have studied an influence of enhanced expression TRIM14 on alphavirus Sindbis (SINV, Togaviridae family) infection. In the HEK293 cells transfected with human trim14 gene (HEK-trim14), SINV yield after infection was decreased 1000-10,000 times (3-4 lg of TCD50/ml) at 24 h p.i. and considerably less (1-2 lg of TCD50/ml) at 48 h p.i. Analysis of the expression of 43 genes directly or indirectly involved in innate immune machine in HEK-trim14 non-infected cells comparing with the control (non-transfected) HEK293 cells revealed that stable trim14 transfection in HEK293 cells caused increased transcription of 18 genes (ifna, il6 (ifnβ2), isg15, raf-1, NF-kB (nf-kb1, rela, nf-kb2, relb), grb2, grb3-3, traf3ip2, junB, c-myb, pu.1, akt1, tyk2, erk2, mek2) and lowered transcription of 3 genes (ifnγ, gata1, il-17a). The similar patterns of genes expression observe in SINV-infected non-transfected HEK293 cells. However, SINV infection of HEK-trim14 cells caused inhibition of the most interferon cascade genes as well as subunits of transcription factor NF-κB. Thus, stable enhanced expression of trim14 gene in cells activates the transcription of many immunity genes and suppresses the SINV reproduction, but SINV infection of HEK-trim14 cells promotes inhibition of some genes involved in innate immune system.
The murine Cebpa gene contains an evolutionarily conserved 453 bp enhancer located at +37 kb that, together with its promoter, directs expression to myeloid progenitors and to long-term hematopoietic stem cells in transgenic mice. In human acute myeloid leukemia cases, the enhancer lacks point mutations but binds the RUNX1-ETO oncoprotein. The enhancer contains the H3K4me1 and H3K27Ac histone modifications, denoting an active enhancer, at progressively increasing levels as long-term hematopoietic stem cells transition to granulocyte-monocyte progenitors. We previously identified four enhancer sites that bind RUNX1 and demonstrated that their integrity is required for maximal enhancer activity in 32Dcl3 myeloid cells. The +37 kb Cebpa enhancer also contains C/EBP, Ets factor, Myb, GATA, and E-box consensus sites conserved in the human +42 kb CEBPA enhancer. Mutation of the two C/EBP, seven Ets, one Myb, two GATA, or two E-box sites reduces activity of an enhancer-promoter reporter in 32Dcl3 cells. In 293T gel shift assays, exogenous C/EBPα binds both C/EBP sites, c-Myb binds the Myb site, PU.1 binds the second Ets site, PU.1, Fli-1, ERG, and Ets1 bind the sixth Ets site, GATA2 binds both GATA sites, and SCL binds the second E-box. Endogenous hematopoietic RUNX1, PU.1, Fli-1, ERG, C/EBPα, GATA2, and SCL were previously shown to bind the enhancer, and we find that endogenous PU.1 binds the second Ets site in 32Dcl3 cells. Using CRISPR/Cas9, we developed 32Dcl3 lines in which the wild-type enhancer alleles are replaced with a variant mutant in the seven Ets sites. These lines have 20-fold reduced Cebpa mRNA when cultured in IL-3 or G-CSF, demonstrating a critical requirement for enhancer integrity for optimal Cebpa expression. In addition, these results indicate that the +37 kb Cebpa enhancer is the focus of multiple regulatory transcriptional pathways that impact its expression during normal hematopoiesis and potentially during myeloid transformation.
BACKGROUND: Many leukemias result from chromosomal rearrangements. The t(8;21) chromosomal translocation produces AML1-ETO, an oncogenic fusion protein that compromises the function of AML1, a transcription factor critical for myeloid cell differentiation. Because of the pressing need for new therapies in the treatment of acute myleoid leukemia, we investigated the genome-wide occupancy of AML1-ETO in leukemic cells to discover novel regulatory mechanisms involving AML-ETO bound genes.RESULTS: We report the co-localization of AML1-ETO with the N-CoR co-repressor to be primarily on genomic regions distal to transcriptional start sites (TSSs). These regions exhibit over-representation of the motif for PU.1, a key hematopoietic regulator and member of the ETS family of transcription factors. A significant discovery of our study is that genes co-occupied by AML1-ETO and N-CoR (e.g., TYROBP and LAPTM5) are associated with the leukemic phenotype, as determined by analyses of gene ontology and by the observation that these genes are predominantly up-regulated upon AML1-ETO depletion. In contrast, the AML1-ETO/p300 gene network is less responsive to AML1-ETO depletion and less associated with the differentiation block characteristic of leukemic cells. Furthermore, a substantial fraction of AML1-ETO/p300 co-localization occurs near TSSs in promoter regions associated with transcriptionally active loci.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings establish a novel and dominant t(8;21) AML leukemia signature characterized by occupancy of AML1-ETO/N-CoR at promoter-distal genomic regions enriched in motifs for myeloid differentiation factors, thus providing mechanistic insight into the leukemic phenotype.
Most mammalian transcription factors (TFs) and cofactors occupy thousands of genomic sites and modulate the expression of large gene networks to implement their biological functions. In this study, we describe an exception to this paradigm. TRIM33 is identified here as a lineage dependency in B cell neoplasms and is shown to perform this essential function by associating with a single cis element. ChIP-seq analysis of TRIM33 in murine B cell leukemia revealed a preferential association with two lineage-specific enhancers that harbor an exceptional density of motifs recognized by the PU.1 TF. TRIM33 is recruited to these elements by PU.1, yet acts to antagonize PU.1 function. One of the PU.1/TRIM33 co-occupied enhancers is upstream of the pro-apoptotic gene Bim, and deleting this enhancer renders TRIM33 dispensable for leukemia cell survival. These findings reveal an essential role for TRIM33 in preventing apoptosis in B lymphoblastic leukemia by interfering with enhancer-mediated Bim activation.
Although nullizygous loss of NF1 leads to myeloid malignancies, haploinsufficient loss of NF1 (Nf1) has been shown to contribute to osteopenia and osteoporosis which occurs in approximately 50% of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) patients. Bone marrow mononuclear cells of haploinsufficient NF1 patients and Nf1(+/-) mice exhibit increased osteoclastogenesis and accelerated bone turnover; however, the culprit hematopoietic lineages responsible for perpetuating these osteolytic manifestations have yet to be elucidated. Here we demonstrate that conditional inactivation of a single Nf1 allele within the myeloid progenitor cell population (Nf1-LysM) is necessary and sufficient to promote multiple osteoclast gains-in-function, resulting in enhanced osteoclastogenesis and accelerated osteoclast bone lytic activity in response to proresorptive challenge in vivo. Surprisingly, mice conditionally Nf1 heterozygous in mature, terminally differentiated osteoclasts (Nf1-Ctsk) do not exhibit any of these skeletal phenotypes, indicating a critical requirement for Nf1 haploinsufficiency at a more primitive/progenitor stage of myeloid development in perpetuating osteolytic activity. We further identified p21Ras-dependent hyperphosphorylation of Pu.1 within the nucleus of Nf1 haploinsufficient myelomonocytic osteoclast precursors, providing a novel therapeutic target for the potential treatment of NF1 associated osteolytic manifestations.
Immune surveillance through Foxp3+ regulatory T cells plays a crucial role in bone homeostasis. Scurfy, the mouse model of autoimmune IPEX syndrome, bears a loss-of-function mutation in Foxp3 that leads to multi-organ inflammation. Herein, we report that scurfy mice exhibit severe bone loss mediated by accelerated osteoclastogenesis. Mechanistically, Foxp3 deficiency results in the upregulation of NF-κB in T helper cells through the loss of repressive Foxp3/NEMO interaction, thereby unleashing NF-κB-mediated over-production of pro-osteoclastogenic cytokines. Flow cytometry analysis shows marked increase in lin-Sca-1+c-kit+ hematopoietic stem cells (LSK HSCs) and granulocyte/macrophage progenitors (GMPs) in bone marrow of scurfy mice with corresponding exacerbated osteoclastogenic potential, implying that osteoclast progenitors are affected at a very primitive stage in this disorder. Scurfy LSK HSCs exhibit greater sensitivity to M-CSF and contain abundant PU.1+ Sf LSK HSCs compared with WT. Accordingly, genetic or pharmacological inhibition of M-CSF or mTOR signaling, but not IL-17 signaling, attenuates osteoclastogenesis and osteopenia in scurfy. Thus, our study suggests that Foxp3 deficiency leads to osteopenia owing to dysregulated NF-κB activity and subsequent cytokine-mediated hyper-proliferation of myeloid precursors, and positions the NF-κB pathway as a potential target for therapeutic intervention for this disorder.
GATA2 plays a crucial role for the mast cell fate decision. We herein demonstrate that GATA2 is also required for the maintenance of the cellular identity in committed mast cells derived from mouse bone marrow (BMMCs). The deletion of the GATA2 DNA binding domain (GATA2ΔCF) in BMMCs resulted in a loss of the mast cell phenotype and an increase in the number of CD11b- and/or Ly6G/C-positive cells. These cells showed the ability to differentiate into macrophage- and neutrophil-like cells but not into eosinophils. Although the mRNA levels of basophil-specific genes were elevated, CD49b, a representative basophil marker, never appeared on these cells. GATA2 ablation led to a significant upregulation of C/EBPα, and forced expression of C/EBPα in wild-type BMMCs phenocopied the GATA2ΔCF cells. Interestingly, simultaneous deletion of the Gata2 and Cebpa genes in BMMCs restored the aberrant increases of CD11b and Ly6G/C while retaining the reduced c-Kit expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays indicated that GATA2 directly binds to the +37-kb region of the Cebpa gene and thereby inhibits the RUNX1 and PU.1 binding to the neighboring region. Upregulation of C/EBPα following the loss of GATA2 was not observed in cultured mast cells derived from peritoneal fluid, whereas the repression of c-Kit and other mast cell-specific genes were observed in these cells. Collectively, these results indicate that GATA2 maintains cellular identity by preventing Cebpa gene activation in a subpopulation of mast cells, whereas it plays a fundamental role as a positive regulator of mast cell-specific genes throughout development of this cell lineage.
The gene regulatory networks in which two lineage-affiliated transcription factors, such as GATA1 and PU.1, inhibit each other but activate themselves so as to regulate the choice between alternative cell fates have been extensively studied. These simple networks can generate bistability and explain the transitions between the alternative cell fates. The commitment of a progenitor cell to a new fate corresponds to the occurrence of different types of bifurcations, depending on if a system is symmetrical and how perturbations affect the system. Here we take a general modeling and analyzing approach and show that the lateral inhibition with symmetry and asymmetry can lead to different bifurcation dynamics. Especially, if cell fate decision-making is initiated with asymmetry or symmetry-breaking perturbations, a progenitor cell pre-patterns itself into a polarized cell, depending on the asymmetry or symmetry-breaking perturbations. This study may help us understand the fundamental features of binary cell fate decisions more clearly and further apply to a wider range of decision-making processes.
The ETS family transcription factor PU.1 is essential for the development of several blood lineages, including T cells, but its function in intrathymic T-cell precursors has been poorly defined. In the thymus, high PU.1 expression persists through multiple cell divisions in early stages but then falls sharply during T-cell lineage commitment. PU.1 silencing is critical for T-cell commitment, but it has remained unknown how PU.1 activities could contribute positively to T-cell development. Here we employed conditional knockout and modified antagonist PU.1 constructs to perturb PU.1 function stage-specifically in early T cells. We show that PU.1 is needed for full proliferation, restricting access to some non-T fates, and controlling the timing of T-cell developmental progression such that removal or antagonism of endogenous PU.1 allows precocious access to T-cell differentiation. Dominant-negative effects reveal that this repression by PU.1 is mediated indirectly. Genome-wide transcriptome analysis identifies novel targets of PU.1 positive and negative regulation affecting progenitor cell signaling and cell biology and indicating distinct regulatory effects on different subsets of progenitor cell transcription factors. Thus, in addition to supporting early T-cell proliferation, PU.1 regulates the timing of activation of the core T-lineage developmental program.
Alveolar macrophage (AM) immune function depends on the activation of the transcription factor PU.1 by granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor. We have determined that chronic alcohol ingestion dampens PU.1 signaling via an unknown zinc-dependent mechanism; specifically, although PU.1 is not known to be a zinc-dependent transcription factor, zinc treatment reversed alcohol-mediated dampening of PU.1 signaling. Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2), a zinc-dependent basic leucine zipper protein essential for antioxidant defenses, is also impaired by chronic alcohol ingestion and enhanced by zinc treatment. We hypothesized that the response of PU.1 to zinc treatment may result from the action of Nrf2 on PU.1. We first performed Nrf2/PU.1 protein coimmunoprecipitation on a rat AM cell line (NR8383) and found no evidence of protein-protein interactions. We then found evidence of increased Nrf2 binding to the PU.1 promoter region by chromatin immunoprecipitation. We next activated Nrf2 using either sulforaphane or an overexpression vector and inhibited Nrf2 with silencing RNA to determine whether Nrf2 could actively regulate PU.1. Nrf2 activation increased protein expression of both factors as well as gene expression of their respective downstream effectors, NAD(P)H dehydrogenase[quinone] 1 (NQO1) and cluster of differentiation antigen-14 (CD14). In contrast, Nrf2 silencing decreased the expression of both proteins, as well as gene expression of their effectors. Activating and inhibiting Nrf2 in primary rat AMs resulted in similar effects. Taken together, these findings suggest that Nrf2 regulates the expression and activity of PU.1 and that antioxidant response and immune activation are coordinately regulated within the AM.
As previous studies suggested that IL-9 may control intestinal barrier function, we tested the role of IL-9 in experimental T cell-mediated colitis induced by the hapten reagent 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS). The deficiency of IL-9 suppressed TNBS-induced colitis and led to lower numbers of PU.1 expressing T cells in the lamia propria, suggesting a regulatory role for Th9 cells in the experimental TNBS colitis model. Since IL-9 is known to functionally alter intestinal barrier function in colonic inflammation, we assessed the expression of tight junction molecules in intestinal epithelial cells of TNBS-inflamed mice. Therefore we made real-time PCR analyses for tight junction molecules in the inflamed colon from wild-type and IL-9 KO mice, immunofluorescent stainings and investigated the expression of junctional proteins directly in intestinal epithelial cells of TNBS-inflamed mice by Western blot studies. The results demonstrated that sealing proteins like occludin were up regulated in the colon of inflamed IL-9 KO mice. In contrast, the tight junction protein Claudin1 showed lower expression levels when IL-9 is absent. Surprisingly, the pore-forming molecule Claudin2 revealed equal expression in TNBS-treated wild-type and IL-9-deficient animals. These results illustrate the pleiotropic functions of IL-9 in changing intestinal permeability in experimental colitis. Thus, modulation of IL-9 function emerges as a new approach for regulating barrier function in intestinal inflammation.
The ETS family of transcription factors exemplifies current uncertainty in how eukaryotic genetic regulators with overlapping DNA sequence preferences achieve target site specificity. PU.1 and Ets-1 represent archetypes for studying site discrimination by ETS proteins because their DNA-binding domains are the most divergent in sequence, yet they share remarkably superimposable DNA-bound structures. To gain insight into the contrasting thermodynamics and kinetics of DNA recognition by these two proteins, we investigated the structure and dynamics of site discrimination by their DNA-binding domains. Electrophoretic mobilities of complexes formed by the two homologs with circularly permuted binding sites showed significant dynamic differences only for DNA complexes of PU.1. Free solution measurements by dynamic light scattering showed PU.1 to be more dynamic than Ets-1; moreover, dynamic changes are strongly coupled to site discrimination by PU.1, but not Ets-1. Interrogation of the protein/DNA interface by DNA footprinting showed similar accessibility to dimethyl sulfate for PU.1/DNA and Ets-1/DNA complexes, indicating that the dynamics of PU.1/DNA complexes reside primarily outside that interface. An information-based analysis of the two homologs' binding motifs suggests a role for dynamic coupling in PU.1's ability to enforce a more stringent sequence preference than Ets-1 and its proximal sequence homologs.
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of temperature changes and stress loading on the mechanical and shape memory properties of thermoplastic materials with different glass transition behaviours and crystal structures.MATERIALS/METHODS: Five thermoplastic materials, polyethylene terephthalate glycol (Duran®, Scheu Dental), polypropylene (Hardcast®, Scheu Dental), and polyurethane (SMP MM®, SMP Technologies) with three different glass transition temperatures (T g) were selected. The T g and crystal structure were assessed using differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray diffraction. The deterioration of mechanical properties by thermal cycling and the orthodontic forces during stepwise temperature changes were investigated using nanoindentation testing and custom-made force-measuring system. The mechanical properties were also evaluated by three-point bending tests; shape recovery with heating was then investigated.RESULTS: The mechanical properties for each material were decreased significantly by 2500 cycles and great decrease was observed for Hardcast (crystal plastic) with higher T g (155.5°C) and PU 1 (crystalline or semi-crystalline plastic) with lower T g (29.6°C). The Duran, PU 2, and PU 3 with intermediate T g (75.3°C for Duran, 56.5°C for PU 2, and 80.7°C for PU 3) showed relatively stable mechanical properties with thermal cycling. The polyurethane polymers showed perfect shape memory effect within the range of intraoral temperature changes. The orthodontic force produced by thermoplastic appliances decreased with the stepwise temperature change for all materials.CONCLUSIONS/IMPLICATIONS: Orthodontic forces delivered by thermoplastic appliances may influence by the T g of the materials, but not the crystal structure. Polyurethane is attractive thermoplastic materials due to their unique shape memory phenomenon, but stress relaxation with temperature changes is expected.
Comment in    Blood. 2015 May 7;125(19):2880-2.
Comment in    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Jul 7;112(27):E3456.    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Jul 7;112(27):E3455.
Spi-C is an E26 transformation-specific family transcription factor that is highly related to PU.1 and Spi-B. Spi-C is expressed in developing B cells, but its function in B cell development and function is not well characterized. To determine whether Spi-C functions as a negative regulator of Spi-B (encoded by Spib), mice were generated that were germline knockout for Spib and heterozygous for Spic (Spib(-/-)Spic(+/-)). Interestingly, loss of one Spic allele substantially rescued B cell frequencies and absolute numbers in Spib(-/-) mouse spleens. Spib(-/-)Spic(+/-) B cells had restored proliferation compared with Spib(-/-) B cells in response to anti-IgM or LPS stimulation. Investigation of a potential mechanism for the Spib(-/-)Spic(+/-) phenotype revealed that steady-state levels of Nfkb1, encoding p50, were elevated in Spib(-/-)Spic(+/-) B cells compared with Spib(-/-) B cells. Spi-B was shown to directly activate the Nfkb1 gene, whereas Spi-C was shown to repress this gene. These results indicate a novel role for Spi-C as a negative regulator of B cell development and function.
BACKGROUND: Spi-B and PU.1 are highly related members of the E26-transformation-specific (ETS) family of transcription factors that have similar, but not identical, roles in B cell development. PU.1 and Spi-B are both expressed in B cells, and have been demonstrated to redundantly activate transcription of genes required for B cell differentiation and function. It was hypothesized that Spi-B and PU.1 occupy a similar set of regions within the genome of a B lymphoma cell line.RESULTS: To compare binding regions of Spi-B and PU.1, murine WEHI-279 lymphoma cells were infected with retroviral vectors encoding 3XFLAG-tagged PU.1 or Spi-B. Anti-FLAG chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by next generation sequencing (ChIP-seq) was performed. Analysis for high-stringency enriched genomic regions demonstrated that PU.1 occupied 4528 regions and Spi-B occupied 3360 regions. The majority of regions occupied by Spi-B were also occupied by PU.1. Regions bound by Spi-B and PU.1 were frequently located immediately upstream of genes associated with immune response and activation of B cells. Motif-finding revealed that both transcription factors were predominantly located at the ETS core domain (GGAA), however, other unique motifs were identified when examining regions associated with only one of the two factors. Motifs associated with unique PU.1 binding included POU2F2, while unique motifs in the Spi-B regions contained a combined ETS-IRF motif.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that complementary biological functions of PU.1 and Spi-B may be explained by their interaction with a similar set of regions in the genome of B cells. However, sites uniquely occupied by PU.1 or Spi-B provide insight into their unique functions.
C1q is the first recognition subcomponent of the complement classical pathway, which in addition to being synthesized in the liver, is also expressed by macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs). Trophoblast invasion during early placentation results in accumulation of debris that triggers the complement system. Hence, both early and late components of the classical pathway are widely distributed in the placenta and decidua. In addition, C1q has recently been shown to significantly contribute to feto-maternal tolerance, trophoblast migration, and spiral artery remodeling, although the exact mechanism remains unknown. Pregnancy in mice, genetically deficient in C1q, mirrors symptoms similar to that of human preeclampsia. Thus, regulated complement activation has been proposed as an essential requirement for normal successful pregnancy. Little is known about the molecular pathways that regulate C1q expression in pregnancy. PU.1, an Ets-family transcription factor, is required for the development of hematopoietic myeloid lineage immune cells, and its expression is tissue-specific. Recently, PU.1 has been shown to regulate C1q gene expression in DCs and macrophages. Here, we have examined if PU.1 transcription factor regulates decidual C1q expression. We used immune-histochemical analysis, PCR, and immunostaining to localize and study the gene expression of PU.1 transcription factor in early human decidua. PU.1 was highly expressed at gene and protein level in early human decidual cells including trophoblast and stromal cells. Surprisingly, nuclear as well as cytoplasmic PU.1 expression was observed. Decidual cells with predominantly nuclear PU.1 expression had higher C1q expression. It is likely that nuclear and cytoplasmic PU.1 localization has a role to play in early pregnancy via regulating C1q expression in the decidua during implantation.
Metallothioneins (MTs) are metal-binding proteins involved in diverse processes, including metal homeostasis and detoxification, the oxidative stress response and cell proliferation. Aberrant expression and silencing of these genes are important in a number of diseases. Several positive regulators of MT genes, including metal-responsive element-binding transcription factor (MTF)-1 and upstream stimulatory factor (USF)-1, have been identified and mechanisms of induction have been well described. However, the negative regulators of MT genes remain to be elucidated. Previous studies from the group of the present review have revealed that the hematopoietic master transcription factor, PU.1, directly represses the expression levels of MT genes through its epigenetic activities, and upregulation of MT results in the potent inhibition of myeloid differentiation. The present review focuses on PU.1 and several other negative regulators of this gene, including PZ120, DNA methyltransferase 3a with Mbd3 and Brg1 complex, CCAAT enhancer binding protein α and Ku protein, and describes the suppression of the MT genes through these transcription factors.
The transcription factor PU.1, encoded by the murine Sfpi1 gene (SPI1 in humans), is a member of the Ets transcription factor family and plays a vital role in commitment and maturation of the myeloid and lymphoid lineages. Murine studies directly link primary acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and decreased PU.1 expression in specifically modified strains. Similarly, a radiation-induced chromosome 2 deletion and subsequent Sfpi1 point mutation in the remaining allele lead to murine radiation-induced AML. Consistent with murine data, heterozygous deletion of the SPI1 locus and mutation of the -14kb SPI1 upstream regulatory element were described previously in human primary AML, although they are rare events. Other mechanisms linked to PU.1 downregulation in human AML include TP53 deletion, FLT3-ITD mutation and the recurrent AML1-ETO [t(8;21)] and PML-RARA [t(15;17)] translocations. This review provides an up-to-date overview on our current understanding of the involvement of PU.1 in the initiation and development of radiation-induced AML, together with recommendations for future murine and human studies.
The differentiation from multipotent hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) to mature and functional blood cells requires the finely tuned regulation of gene expression at each stage of development. Specific transcription factors play a key role in this process as they modulate the expression of their target genes in an exquisitely lineage-specific manner. A large number of important transcriptional regulators have been identified which establish and maintain specific gene expression patterns during hematopoietic development. Hematopoiesis is therefore a paradigm for investigating how transcription factors function in mammalian cells, thanks also to the evolution of genome-wide and the next-generation sequencing technologies. In this review, we focus on the current knowledge of the biological and functional properties of the hematopoietic master regulator RUNX1 (also known as AML1, CBFA2, PEBP2aB) transcription factor and its main downstream target PU.1. We will outline their relationship in determining the fate of the myeloid lineage during normal stem cell development and under conditions when hematopoietic development is subverted by leukemic transformation.
Interferon regulatory factor-8 (IRF8) is a transcription factor expressed in hematopoietic cells, particularly in mononuclear phagocytes [monocytes/macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs)] and their progenitors. Various studies have demonstrated that IRF8 is essential for the development of monocytes, DCs, eosinophils, and basophils. Conversely, IRF8 suppresses the generation of neutrophils. Accordingly, Irf8 (-/-) mice develop immunodeficiency and a chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)-like disease. Mutations and loss of expression of the human IRF8 gene are also associated with immunodeficiency and CML, respectively. Recent findings have begun to reveal the transcription factor network and epigenetic changes governed by IRF8. For example, in mononuclear phagocyte progenitors, IRF8 cooperates with PU.1 to promote the formation of promoter-distal enhancers to induce monocyte-related genes including the critical downstream transcription factor gene Klf4. On the other hand, IRF8 blocks C/EBPα activity to suppress the neutrophil differentiation program. Indeed, Irf8 (-/-) mononuclear phagocyte progenitors fail to efficiently generate monocytes and DCs and, instead, aberrantly give rise to neutrophils. This article provides an overview of recent advances in our understanding of the role of IRF8 in myelopoiesis and related diseases.
BACKGROUND: IL-9 is important for the growth and survival of mast cells. IL-9 is produced by T cells, natural killer T cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and innate lymphoid cells, although the cells required for mast cell accumulation during allergic inflammation remain undefined.OBJECTIVE: We sought to elucidate the role of TH9 cells in promoting mast cell accumulation in models of allergic lung inflammation.METHODS: Adoptive transfer of ovalbumin-specific TH2 and TH9 cells was used to assess the ability of each subset to mediate mast cell accumulation in tissues. Mast cell accumulation was assessed in wild-type mice and mice with PU.1-deficient T cells subjected to acute and chronic models of allergic inflammation.RESULTS: Adoptive transfer experiments demonstrated that recipients of TH9 cells had significantly higher mast cell accumulation and expression of mast cell proteases compared with control or TH2 recipients. Mast cell accumulation was dependent on IL-9, but not IL-13, a cytokine required for many aspects of allergic inflammation. In models of acute and chronic allergic inflammation, decreased IL-9 levels in mice with PU.1-deficient T cells corresponded to diminished tissue mast cell numbers and expression of mast cell proteases. Mice with PU.1-deficient T cells have defects in IL-9 production from CD4(+) T cells, but not natural killer T cells or innate lymphoid cells, suggesting a TH cell-dependent phenotype. Rag1(-/-) mice subjected to a chronic model of allergic inflammation displayed reduced mast cell infiltration comparable with accumulation in mice with PU.1-deficient T cells, emphasizing the importance of IL-9 produced by T cells in mast cell recruitment.CONCLUSION: TH9 cells are a major source of IL-9 in models of allergic inflammation and play an important role in mast cell accumulation and activation.
Generation of antibodies against T-independent and T-dependent antigens requires Toll-like receptor (TLR) engagement on B cells for efficient responses. However, the regulation of TLR expression and responses in B cells is not well understood. PU.1 and Spi-B (encoded by Sfpi1 and Spib, respectively) are transcription factors of the E26 transformation-specific (ETS) family and are important for B cell development and function. It was found that B cells from mice knocked out for Spi-B and heterozygous for PU.1 (Sfpi1(+/-) Spib(-/-) [PUB] mice) proliferated poorly in response to TLR ligands compared to wild-type (WT) B cells. The NF-κB family member p50 (encoded by Nfkb1) is required for lipopolysaccharide (LPS) responsiveness in mice. PUB B cells expressed reduced Nfkb1 mRNA transcripts and p50 protein. The Nfkb1 promoter was regulated directly by PU.1 and Spi-B, as shown by reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis. Occupancy of the Nfkb1 promoter by PU.1 was reduced in PUB B cells compared to that in WT B cells. Finally, infection of PUB B cells with a retroviral vector encoding p50 substantially restored proliferation in response to LPS. We conclude that Nfkb1 transcriptional activation by PU.1 and Spi-B promotes TLR-mediated B cell proliferation.
PU.1 is a key transcription factor regulating the myeloid differentiation. PU.1-induced monocytic differentiation into macrophage is also important for blood cancer development. Therefore, we chose THP-1 monocytic leukemia cells to investigate the function of a recently discovered IL-32θ. Genetic analyses identified differences in the sequences of IL-32θ and IL-32β. Using previously established cell lines that stably express IL-32θ and IL-32β and cell lines transiently expressing IL-32θ, we observed that expression of IL-32θ inhibited phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-induced monocytic differentiation in both THP-1 and HL-60 cells. IL-32θ also suppressed expression of the macrophage cell surface markers, CD11b, CD18, and CD36. Interestingly, expression of IL-32β or IL-32θ had no effect on the expression levels of cell cycle related factors. As a result, we concluded that these isoforms did not contribute to PMA-induced cell cycle arrest. IL-32θ was found to modulate expression of PU.1, a transcription factor necessary for myeloid lineage commitment. Transient expression of PU.1 in THP-1/IL-32θ cells rescued the observed differentiation defect. Additionally, transient expression of both CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBPα) and PU.1 in THP-1/IL-32θ cells exhibited synergistic effects in rescuing the differentiation defect. These observations indicate that intracellular IL-32θ inhibits the differentiation of monocytes into macrophages by attenuating PU.1 expression.
The association of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) with plasmacytoid malignancies is now well established but how the virus influences microRNA expression in such cells is not known. We have used multiple myeloma (MM) cell lines to address this issue and find that an oncomiR, miR-21 is induced after in vitro EBV infection. The PU.1 binding site in miR-21 promoter was essential for its activation by the virus. In accordance with its noted oncogenic functions, miR-21 induction in EBV infected MM cells caused downregulation of p21 and an increase in cyclin D3 expression. EBV infected MM cells were highly tumorigenic in SCID mice. Given the importance of miR-21 in plasmacytoid malignancies, our findings that EBV could further exacerbate the disease by inducing miR-21 has interesting implications both in terms of diagnosis and future miR based therapeutical approaches for the virus associated plasmacytoid tumors.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a severe age-related neurodegenerative disorder characterized by accumulation of amyloid-β plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic and neuronal loss, and cognitive decline. Several genes have been implicated in AD, but chromatin state alterations during neurodegeneration remain uncharacterized. Here we profile transcriptional and chromatin state dynamics across early and late pathology in the hippocampus of an inducible mouse model of AD-like neurodegeneration. We find a coordinated downregulation of synaptic plasticity genes and regulatory regions, and upregulation of immune response genes and regulatory regions, which are targeted by factors that belong to the ETS family of transcriptional regulators, including PU.1. Human regions orthologous to increasing-level enhancers show immune-cell-specific enhancer signatures as well as immune cell expression quantitative trait loci, while decreasing-level enhancer orthologues show fetal-brain-specific enhancer activity. Notably, AD-associated genetic variants are specifically enriched in increasing-level enhancer orthologues, implicating immune processes in AD predisposition. Indeed, increasing enhancers overlap known AD loci lacking protein-altering variants, and implicate additional loci that do not reach genome-wide significance. Our results reveal new insights into the mechanisms of neurodegeneration and establish the mouse as a useful model for functional studies of AD regulatory regions.
Antisense long non-coding RNAs (AS lncRNAs) play important roles in refined regulation of animal gene expression. However, their functions and molecular mechanisms for domestic animal adipogenesis are largely unknown. Here, we found a novel AS lncRNA transcribed from the porcine PU.1 gene (also known as SPI1) by strand-specific RT-PCR. Results showed that PU.1 AS lncRNA was expressed and generally lower than the level of PU.1 mRNA in porcine subcutaneous adipose, heart, liver, spleen, lympha, skeletal muscle and kidney tissues. We further found that the levels of PU.1 mRNA and PU.1 protein were significantly lower in subcutaneous and intermuscular adipose than in mesenteric and greater omentum adipose, whereas the levels of PU.1 AS lncRNA showed no difference in porcine adipose tissues from four different parts of the body. During porcine adipogenesis, levels of PU.1 mRNA increased at day 2 and then gradually decreased. Meanwhile, PU.1 AS lncRNA exhibited an expression trend similar to PU.1 mRNA but sharply decreased after day 2. Interestingly, PU.1 protein level rose during differentiation. In addition, at day 6 after differentiation, knockdown of endogenous PU.1 promoted adipogenesis, whereas knockdown of endogenous PU.1 AS lncRNA had the opposite effect. Moreover, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG) and fatty acid synthase (FASN) were significantly upregulated in the PU.1 shRNA treatment group (P < 0.05), whereas they were downregulated in the PU.1 AS shRNA treatment group (P < 0.05). Adipose triglyceride lipase [ATGL; also known as patatin-like phospholipase domain containing 2 (PNPLA2)] and hormone-sensitive lipase [HSL; also known as lipase, hormone-sensitive (LIPE)] contrasted with PPARG and FASN. Finally, the PU.1 mRNA/PU.1 AS lncRNA duplex was detected by an endogenous ribonuclease protection assay combined with RT-PCR. Based on the above results, we suggest that PU.1 AS lncRNA (vs. its mRNA translation) promotes adipogenesis through the formation of a sense-antisense RNA duplex with PU.1 mRNA.
To investigate the temporal expressions of IL-9 and its related cytokines after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. IL-9 and its related cytokines in ischemia brain and blood were tested after rats were subjected to transient focal ischemia. Comparing with sham-operated group, the levels of IL-4, TGF-β, PU.1, IRF4, OX40, NIK, RelB-p52 and IL-9 in experimental groups were significantly higher after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The results showed that expressions of IL-9 and its upstream stimulating factors increased in experimental stroke, and whether they play a role or just a secondary change is awaiting further research.
Oncogenic Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) uses various approaches to escape host immune responses and persist in B cells. Such persistent infections may provide the opportunity for this virus to initiate tumor formation. Using EBV-immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) as a model, we found that the expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II and CD74 in B cells is repressed after EBV infection. Class II transactivator (CIITA) is the master regulator of MHC class II-related genes. As expected, CIITA was downregulated in LCLs. We showed that downregulation of CIITA is caused by EBV latent membrane protein 2A (LMP2A) and driven by the CIITA-PIII promoter. Furthermore, we demonstrated that LMP2A-mediated E47 and PU.1 reduction resulted in CIITA suppression. Mechanistically, the LMP2A immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif was critical for the repression of E47 and PU.1 promoter activity via Syk, Src, and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway. Elimination of LMP2A in LCLs using a shLMP2A approach showed that the expression levels of E47, PU.1, CIITA, MHC class II, and CD74 are reversed. These data indicated that the LMP2A may reduce MHC class II expression through interference with the E47/PU.1-CIITA pathway. Finally, we demonstrated that MHC class II may be detected in tonsils and EBV-negative Hodgkin disease but not in EBV-associated posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease and Hodgkin disease.
Interferon regulatory factor 8 (Irf8) is critical for mammalian macrophage development and innate immunity, but its role in teleost myelopoiesis remains incompletely understood. In particular, genetic tools to analyze the role of Irf8 in zebrafish macrophage development at larval and adult stages are lacking. We generated irf8 null mutants in zebrafish using TALEN-mediated targeting. Our analysis defines different requirements for irf8 at different stages. irf8 is required for formation of all macrophages during primitive and transient definitive hematopoiesis, but not during adult-phase definitive hematopoiesis starting at 5-6 days postfertilization. At early stages, irf8 mutants have excess neutrophils and excess cell death in pu.1-expressing myeloid cells. Macrophage fates were recovered in irf8 mutants after wildtype irf8 expression in neutrophil and macrophage lineages, suggesting that irf8 regulates macrophage specification and survival. In juvenile irf8 mutant fish, mature macrophages are present, but at numbers significantly reduced compared to wildtype, indicating an ongoing requirement for irf8 after embryogenesis. As development progresses, tissue macrophages become apparent in zebrafish irf8 mutants, with the possible exception of microglia. Our study defines distinct requirement for irf8 in myelopoiesis before and after transition to the adult hematopoietic system.
Microglia are resident mononuclear phagocytes that play a principal role in the maintenance of normal tissue homeostasis in the central nervous system (CNS). Microglia, rapidly activated in response to proinflammatory stimuli, are accumulated in brain lesions of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. The E26 transformation-specific (ETS) family transcription factor PU.1/Spi1 acts as a master regulator of myeloid and lymphoid development. PU.1-deficient mice show a complete loss of microglia, indicating that PU.1 plays a pivotal role in microgliogenesis. However, the comprehensive profile of PU.1/Spi1 target genes in microglia remains unknown. By analyzing a chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by deep sequencing (ChIP-Seq) dataset numbered SRP036026 with the Strand NGS program, we identified 5,264 Spi1 target protein-coding genes in BV2 mouse microglial cells. They included Spi1, Irf8, Runx1, Csf1r, Csf1, Il34, Aif1 (Iba1), Cx3cr1, Trem2, and Tyrobp. By motif analysis, we found that the PU-box consensus sequences were accumulated in the genomic regions surrounding ChIP-Seq peaks. By using pathway analysis tools of bioinformatics, we found that ChIP-Seq-based Spi1 target genes show a significant relationship with diverse pathways essential for normal function of monocytes/macrophages, such as endocytosis, Fc receptor-mediated phagocytosis, and lysosomal degradation. These results suggest that PU.1/Spi1 plays a crucial role in regulation of the genes relevant to specialized functions of microglia. Therefore, aberrant regulation of PU.1 target genes might contribute to the development of neurodegenerative diseases with accumulation of activated microglia.
Microbial-induced cytokine regulation is critical to intestinal immune homeostasis. Acute stimulation of nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain 2 (NOD2), the Crohn's disease-associated sensor of bacterial peptidoglycan, induces cytokines. However, cytokines are attenuated after chronic NOD2 and pattern recognition receptor stimulation of macrophages; similar attenuation is observed in intestinal macrophages. The role of Tyro3, Axl, and Mer (TAM) receptors in regulating chronic pattern recognition receptor stimulation and NOD2-induced outcomes has not been examined. Moreover, TAM receptors have been relatively less investigated in human macrophages. Whereas TAM receptors did not downregulate acute NOD2-induced cytokines in primary human macrophages, they were essential for downregulating signaling and proinflammatory cytokine secretion after chronic NOD2 and TLR4 stimulation. Axl and Mer were similarly required in mice for cytokine downregulation after chronic NOD2 stimulation in vivo and in intestinal tissues. Consistently, TAM expression was increased in human intestinal myeloid-derived cells. Chronic NOD2 stimulation led to IL-10- and TGF-β-dependent TAM upregulation in human macrophages, which, in turn, upregulated suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 expression. Restoring suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 expression under TAM knockdown conditions restored chronic NOD2-mediated proinflammatory cytokine downregulation. In contrast to the upregulated proinflammatory cytokines, attenuated IL-10 secretion was maintained in TAM-deficient macrophages upon chronic NOD2 stimulation. The level of MAPK activation in TAM-deficient macrophages after chronic NOD2 stimulation was insufficient to upregulate IL-10 secretion; however, full restoration of MAPK activation under these conditions restored c-Fos, c-Jun, musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma oncogene homolog K, and PU.1 binding to the IL-10 promoter and IL-10 secretion. Therefore, TAM receptors are critical for downregulating proinflammatory cytokines under the chronic NOD2 stimulation conditions observed in the intestinal environment.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent important regulators of gene expression besides transcriptional control. miRNA regulation can be involved in the cell developmental fate decisions, but can also have more subtle roles in buffering stochastic fluctuations in gene expression. They participate in pathways fundamental to B-cell development like B-cell receptor (BCR) signalling, B-cell migration/adhesion, cell-cell interactions in immune niches, and the production and class-switching of immunoglobulins. miRNAs influence B-cell maturation, generation of pre-, marginal zone, follicular, B1, plasma and memory B cells. In this review, we discuss miRNAs with essential functions in malignant B-cell development (such as miR-150, miR-155, miR-21, miR-34a, miR-17-92 and miR-15-16). We also put these miRNAs in the context of normal B-cell differentiation, as this is intimately connected to neoplastic B-cell development. We review miRNAs' role in the most common B-cell malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), follicular lymphoma (FL) and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). We focus on miR-contribution to the regulation of important signalling pathways (such as NF-κB, PI3K/AKT and TGF-β), BCR signalling and its modulators (such as PTEN, SHIP-1, ZAP-70, GAB1 and BTK), anti- and pro-apoptotic proteins (such as BCL2, MCL1, TCL1, BIM, p53 and SIRT1) and transcription factors (such as MYC, MYB, PU.1, FOXP1 and BCL6). We also discuss the association of miRNAs' expression levels with the patients' survival and response to therapy, summarizing their potential use as predictive and prognostic markers. Importantly, the targeting of miRNAs (like use of anti-miR-155 or miR-34a mimic) could provide a novel therapeutic approach as evidenced by tumour regression in xenograft mouse models and initial promising data from clinical trials.
Acute myeloid leukemia is a clonal malignant disorder derived from a small number of leukemic stem cells (LSCs). Rearrangements of the mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) gene are found in acute myeloid leukemia associated with poor prognosis. The upregulation of Hox genes is critical for LSC induction and maintenance, but is unlikely to support malignancy and the high LSC frequency observed in MLL leukemias. The present study shows that MLL fusion proteins interact with the transcription factor PU.1 to activate the transcription of CSF-1R, which is critical for LSC activity. Acute myeloid leukemia is cured by either deletion of PU.1 or ablation of cells expressing CSF-1R. Kinase inhibitors specific for CSF-1R prolong survival time. These findings indicate that PU.1-mediated upregulation of CSF-1R is a critical effector of MLL leukemogenesis.
Deletion of genes encoding the E26 transformation-specific transcription factors PU.1 and Spi-B in B cells (CD19-CreΔPB mice) leads to impaired B cell development, followed by B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia at 100% incidence and with a median survival of 21 wk. However, little is known about the target genes that explain leukemogenesis in these mice. In this study we found that immature B cells were altered in frequency in the bone marrow of preleukemic CD19-CreΔPB mice. Enriched pro-B cells from CD19-CreΔPB mice induced disease upon transplantation, suggesting that these were leukemia-initiating cells. Bone marrow cells from preleukemic CD19-CreΔPB mice had increased responsiveness to IL-7 and could proliferate indefinitely in response to this cytokine. Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK), a negative regulator of IL-7 signaling, was reduced in preleukemic and leukemic CD19-CreΔPB cells compared with controls. Induction of PU.1 expression in cultured CD19-CreΔPB pro-B cell lines induced Btk expression, followed by reduced STAT5 phosphorylation and early apoptosis. PU.1 and Spi-B regulated Btk directly as shown by chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis. Ectopic expression of BTK was sufficient to induce apoptosis in cultured pro-B cells. In summary, these results suggest that PU.1 and Spi-B activate Btk to oppose IL-7 responsiveness in developing B cells.
Granulocyte differentiation and immune response function is a dynamic process governed by a highly coordinated transcriptional program that regulates cellular fate and function, often in a context-dependent manner. Advances in high-throughput technologies and bioinformatics have allowed us to better understand complex biological processes at the genomic and proteomic levels. Components of the environmental milieu, along with the molecular mechanisms that drive the development, activation, and regulation of granulocytes, have since been elucidated. In this chapter, we present the intricate network in which these elements come together and influence one another. In particular, we describe the critical roles of transcription factors like PU.1, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein (C/EBPα; alpha), C/EBPε (epsilon), and growth factor independent-1 (Gfi-1). We also review granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) receptor-induced signal transduction pathways, their influence on proliferation and differentiation, and the cooperativity of cytokines and chemokines in this process.
Comment in    Trends Immunol. 2015 Feb;36(2):61-2.
Stable and efficient knockdown of multiple gene targets is highly desirable for dissection of molecular pathways. Because it allows sequence-specific DNA binding, transcription activator-like effector (TALE) offers a new genetic perturbation technique that allows for gene-specific repression. Here, we constructed a multicolor lentiviral TALE-Kruppel-associated box (KRAB) expression vector platform that enables knockdown of multiple gene targets. This platform is fully compatible with the Golden Gate TALEN and TAL Effector Kit 2.0, a widely used and efficient method for TALE assembly. We showed that this multicolor TALE-KRAB vector system when combined together with bone marrow transplantation could quickly knock down c-kit and PU.1 genes in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells of recipient mice. Furthermore, our data demonstrated that this platform simultaneously knocked down both c-Kit and PU.1 genes in the same primary cell populations. Together, our results suggest that this multicolor TALE-KRAB vector platform is a promising and versatile tool for knockdown of multiple gene targets and could greatly facilitate dissection of molecular pathways.
IL-23 has been well studied in the context of T cell differentiation; however, its role in the differentiation of myeloid progenitors is less clear. In this paper, we describe a novel role of IL-23 in myeloid cell differentiation. Specifically, we have identified that in human PBMCs, IL-23 induces the expression of MDL-1, a PU.1 transcriptional target during myeloid differentiation, which orchestrates osteoclast differentiation through activation of DNAX activating protein of 12 kDa and its ITAMs. The molecular events that lead to the differentiation of human macrophages to terminally differentiated osteoclasts are dependent on spleen tyrosine kinase and phospholipase Cγ2 phosphorylation for the induction of intracellular calcium flux and the subsequent activation of master regulator osteoclast transcription factor NFATc1. IL-23-elicited osteoclastogenesis is independent of the receptor activator of NF-κB ligand pathway and uses a unique myeloid DNAX activating protein of 12 kDa-associated lectin-1(+)/DNAX activating protein of 12 kDa(+) cell subset. Our data define a novel pathway that is used by IL-23 in myeloid cells and identify a major mechanism for the stimulation of osteoclastogenesis in inflammatory arthritis.
Previous studies have predicted that reciprocal activation of GATA-1 and PU.1 regulates myelo-erythroid versus myelo-lymphoid lineage commitment in early hematopoiesis. Such PU.1-activating myelo-lymphoid progenitors exist within the lymphoid-primed multipotent progenitor (LMPP) population at the primitive Lineage(-) Sca-1(+) c-Kit(+) (LSK) stage. We here show that the counterpart of GATA-1-activating myelo-erythroid progenitor resides also at the LSK stage, expressing CD41 at a high level. Purified CD41(hi) LSK cells showed exceedingly strong and prolonged myelo-erythroid-restricted reconstitution, and primed myelo-erythroid gene expression with a more primitive molecular signature as compared to the original common myeloid progenitor (CMP). The CD41(hi) LSK cells more strongly contributed to emergent and malignant myelopoiesis than LMPPs, and produced the original CMP by downregulating Sca-1 and CD41, suggesting that they are the earliest CMPs. Thus, the hematopoietic developmental map should be revised by integrating the primary branchpoint comprised of the new, isolatable CD41(hi) CMP and the LMPP populations.
Tak1 is a MAPKKK that can be activated by growth factors and cytokines such as RANKL and BMPs and its downstream pathways include NF-κB and JNK/p38 MAPKs. Tak1 is essential for mouse embryonic development and plays critical roles in tissue homeostasis. Previous studies have shown that Tak1 is a positive regulator of osteoclast maturation, yet its roles in bone growth and remodeling have not been assessed, as mature osteoclast-specific Tak1 deletion with Cstk-Cre resulted in runtedness and postnatal lethality. Here we generated osteoclast progenitor (monocyte)-specific Tak1 knockout mice and found that these mice show normal body weight, limb size and fertility, and osteopetrosis with severity similar to that of RANK or RANKL deficient mice. Mechanistically, Tak1 deficiency altered the signaling of NF-κB, p38MAPK, and Smad1/5/8 and the expression of PU.1, MITF, c-Fos, and NFATc1, suggesting that Tak1 regulates osteoclast differentiation at multiple stages via multiple signaling pathways. Moreover, the Tak1 mutant mice showed defects in skull, articular cartilage, and mesenchymal stromal cells. Ex vivo Tak1-/- monocytes also showed enhanced ability in promoting osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stromal cells. These findings indicate that Tak1 functions in osteoclastogenesis in a cell-autonomous manner and in osteoblastogenesis and chondrogenesis in non-cell-autonomous manners.
Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) were recently found to accumulate in the lungs during Pneumocystis pneumonia (PcP). Adoptive transfer of these cells caused lung damage in recipient mice, suggesting that MDSC accumulation is a mechanism of pathogenesis in PcP. In this study, the phagocytic activity of alveolar macrophages (AMs) was found to decrease by 40% when they were incubated with MDSCs from Pneumocystis-infected mice compared to those incubated with Gr-1(+) cells from the bone marrow of uninfected mice. The expression of the PU.1 gene in AMs incubated with MDSCs also was decreased. This PU.1 downregulation was due mainly to decreased histone 3 acetylation and increased DNA methylation caused by MDSCs. MDSCs were found to express high levels of PD-L1, and alveolar macrophages (AMs) were found to express high levels of PD-1 during PcP. Furthermore, PD-1 expression in AMs from uninfected mice was increased by 18-fold when they were incubated with MDSCs compared to those incubated with Gr-1(+) cells from the bone marrow of uninfected mice. The adverse effects of MDSCs on AMs were diminished when the MDSCs were pretreated with anti-PD-L1 antibody, suggesting that MDSCs disable AMs through PD-1/PD-L1 ligation during PcP.
Comment in    Circ Res. 2015 Jan 30;116(3):389-92.
Author information:(1)Department of Endodontics, Ninth People's Hospital, College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology. Shanghai 200011, China.E-mail:kongfangyuan2005@126.com.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection is associated with a spectrum of clinical outcomes, from long-term latent infection to different manifestations of progressive disease. Pro-inflammatory pathways, such as those controlled by IL-1β, have the contrasting potential both to prevent disease by restricting bacterial replication, and to promote disease by inflicting tissue damage. Thus, the ultimate contribution of individual inflammatory pathways to the outcome of M. tuberculosis infection remains ambiguous. In this study, we identified a naturally-occurring polymorphism in the human IL1B promoter region, which alters the association of the C/EBPβ and PU.1 transcription factors and controls Mtb-induced IL-1β production. The high-IL-1β expressing genotype was associated with the development of active tuberculosis, the severity of pulmonary disease and poor treatment outcome in TB patients. Higher IL-1β expression did not suppress the activity of IFN-γ-producing T cells, but instead correlated with neutrophil accumulation in the lung. These observations support a specific role for IL-1β and granulocytic inflammation as a driver of TB disease progression in humans, and suggest novel strategies for the prevention and treatment of tuberculosis.
Macrophages play essential roles in tissue homeostasis, pathogen elimination, and tissue repair. A defining characteristic of these cells is their ability to efficiently adapt to a variety of abruptly changing and complex environments. This ability is intrinsically linked to a capacity to quickly alter their transcriptome, and this is tightly associated with the epigenomic organization of these cells and, in particular, their enhancer repertoire. Indeed, enhancers are genomic sites that serve as platforms for the integration of signaling pathways with the mechanisms that regulate mRNA transcription. Notably, transcription is pervasive at active enhancers and enhancer RNAs (eRNAs) are tightly coupled to regulated transcription of protein-coding genes. Furthermore, given that each cell type possesses a defining enhancer repertoire, studies on enhancers provide a powerful method to study how specialization of functions among the diverse macrophage subtypes may arise. Here, we review recent studies providing insights into the distinct mechanisms that contribute to the establishment of enhancers and their role in the regulation of transcription in macrophages.
Monocytes and macrophages differentiate from progenitor cells under the influence of colony-stimulating factors. Genome-scale data have enabled the identification of the sets of genes that are associated with specific functions and the mechanisms by which thousands of genes are regulated in response to pathogen challenge. In large datasets, it is possible to identify large sets of genes that are coregulated with the transcription factors that regulate them. They include macrophage-specific genes, interferon-responsive genes, early inflammatory genes, and those associated with endocytosis. Such analyses can also extract macrophage-associated signatures from large cancer tissue datasets. However, cluster analysis provides no support for a signature that distinguishes macrophages from antigen-presenting dendritic cells, nor the classification of macrophage activation states as classical versus alternative, or M1 versus M2. Although there has been a focus on a small subset of lineage-enriched transcription factors, such as PU.1, more than half of the transcription factors in the genome can be expressed in macrophage lineage cells under some state of activation, and they interact in a complex network. The network architecture is conserved across species, but many of the target genes evolve rapidly and differ between mouse and human. The data and publication deluge related to macrophage biology require the development of new analytical tools and ways of presenting information in an accessible form.
Activated B cells undergo immunoglobulin class-switch recombination (CSR) and differentiate into antibody-secreting plasma cells. The distinct transcriptomes of B cells and plasma cells are maintained by the antagonistic influences of two groups of transcription factors: those that maintain the B cell program, including BCL6 and PAX5, and plasma cell-promoting factors, such as IRF4 and BLIMP-1. We show that the complex of IRF8 and PU.1 controls the propensity of B cells to undergo CSR and plasma cell differentiation by concurrently promoting the expression of BCL6 and PAX5 and repressing AID and BLIMP-1. As the PU.1-IRF8 complex functions in a reciprocal manner to IRF4, we propose that concentration-dependent competition between these factors controls B cell terminal differentiation.
Comment in    Carotta et al.
Metastasis is the main cause of cancer-related death and thus understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying this process is critical. Here, our data demonstrate, contrary to established dogma, that loss of haematopoietic-derived focal adhesion kinase (FAK) is sufficient to enhance tumour metastasis. Using both experimental and spontaneous metastasis models, we show that genetic ablation of haematopoietic FAK does not affect primary tumour growth but enhances the incidence of metastasis significantly. At a molecular level, haematopoietic FAK deletion results in an increase in PU-1 levels and decrease in GATA-1 levels causing a shift of hematopoietic homeostasis towards a myeloid commitment. The subsequent increase in circulating granulocyte number, with an increase in serum CXCL12 and granulocyte CXCR4 levels, was required for augmented metastasis in mice lacking haematopoietic FAK. Overall our findings provide a mechanism by which haematopoietic FAK controls cancer metastasis.
BACKGROUND: X-linked lymphoproliferative disease type 1 (XLP1) belongs to genetically determined primary immunodeficiency syndromes with mutations in SH2D1A/DSHP/SAP gene. The dramatic increase of the risk of B-cell lymphoma development in XLP1 patients is linked not only to SAP deficiency of NK, NKT and T cells, but probably to the impairment of B cell differentiation.AIM: To analyze the receptor-mediated Akt/PKB and ERK1/2 phosphorylation and expression of transcription factors that are involved in B cell maturation in EBV-transformed B-lymphoblastoid cell lines (B-LCLs) from XLP1 patients (XLP B-LCLs) in comparison with conventional B-LCLs.METHODS: Studies were performed on EBV-transformed XLP B-LCLs IARC 739, SC-XLP and RP-XLP in comparison with SAP-negative B-LCL T5-1 and SAP-positive B-LCL MP-1. Western blot analysis was used for evaluation of Akt (Ser473) and ERK1/2 (Thr202/Tyr204) phosphorylation in response to ligation of CD150, CD40, and IgM cell surface receptors. The expression levels of transcription factors IRF4, IRF8, BCL6, BLIMP1, SPIB, PU.1 and MITF were assessed using quantitative RT-PCR.RESULTS: It was shown that SAP deficiency in XLP B-LCL did not abrogate CD150-mediated Akt and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. At the same time, ligation of CD150 or IgM affects kinetics and amplitude of ERK1/2 activation. In XLP B-LCL the CD150 signaling with IgM coligation play the dominant role in both Akt and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. We found that significantly reduced IRF4, IRF8 and PU.1 expression levels are the key features of XLP B-LCLs.CONCLUSION: XLP B-LCLs and conventional B-LCLs have differences in kinetics and amplitude of Akt and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Analysis of transcription factors profile revealed the distinguishing features of XLP B-LCLs with SAP deficiency that may impair B cell differentiation.Key Words: B-lymphoblastoid cell lines, X-linked lymphoproliferative disease type 1, CD150, CD40, BCR, Akt/PKB, ERK1/2, transcription factors.
Nuclear receptor PXR is predominantly expressed in liver and intestine. Expression of PXR is observed to be dysregulated in various metabolic disorders indicating its involvement in disease development. However, information available on mechanisms of PXR self-regulation is fragmentary. The present investigation identifies some of the regulatory elements responsible for its tight regulation and low cellular expression. Here, we report that the PXR-promoter is a target for some key transcription factors like PU.1/Ets-1, Pax5, LEF-1 and c-Jun. Interestingly, we observed that PXR-promoter responsiveness to Pax5, LEF-1 and c-Jun, is considerably enhanced by Ets transcription factors (PU.1 and Ets-1). Co-transfection of cells with Ets-1, LEF-1 and c-Jun increased PXR-promoter activity by 5-fold and also induced expression of endogenous human PXR. Site-directed mutagenesis and transfection studies revealed that two Ets binding sites and two of the three LEF binding sites in the PXR-promoter are functional and have a positive effect on PXR transcription. Results suggest that expression of Ets family members, in conjunction with Pax5, LEF-1 and c-Jun, lead to coordinated up-regulation of PXR gene transcription. Insights obtained on the regulation of PXR gene have relevance in offering important cues towards normal functioning as well as development of several metabolic disorders via PXR signaling.
Bacterial infection and its associated sepsis are devastating clinical entities that lead to high mortality and morbidity in critically ill patients. Phagocytosis, along with other innate immune responses, exerts crucial impacts on the outcomes of these patients. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of regulatory noncoding RNAs that target specific mRNAs for modulation of translation and expression of a targeted protein. The roles of miRNAs in host defense against bacterial sepsis remain unclear. We found that bacterial infections and/or bacterial-derived LPS enhanced the level of miR-15a/16 in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). Deletion of miR-15a/16 (miR-15a/16(-/-)) in myeloid cells significantly decreased the bacterial infection-associated mortality in sepsis mouse models. Moreover, miR-15a/16 deficiency (miR-15a/16(-/-)) resulted in augmented phagocytosis and generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species in BMDMs. Supportively, overexpression of miR-15a/16 using miRNA mimics led to decreased phagocytosis and decreased generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species. Mechanistically, deletion of miR-15a/16 upregulated the expression of TLR4 via targeting the principle transcriptional regulator PU.1 locating on the promoter region of TLR4, and further modulated the downstream signaling molecules of TLR4, including Rho GTPase Cdc 42 and TRAF6. In addition, deficiency of miR-15a/16 also facilitated TLR4-mediated proinflammatory cytokine/chemokine release from BMDMs at the initial phase of infections. Taken together, miR-15a/16 altered phagocytosis and bacterial clearance by targeting, at least partially, on the TLR4-associated pathways, subsequently affecting the survival of septic mice.
miRNAs are short, noncoding RNAs that regulate expression of target genes at post-transcriptional levels and function in many important cellular processes, including differentiation, proliferation, etc. In this study, we observed down-regulation of miR-199a-5p during monocyte/macrophage differentiation of HL-60 and THP-1 cells, as well as human CD34(+) HSPCs. This down-regulation of miR-199a-5p resulted from the up-regulation of PU.1 that was demonstrated to regulate transcription of the miR-199a-2 gene negatively. Overexpression of miR-199a-5p by miR-199a-5p mimic transfection or lentivirus-mediated gene transfer significantly inhibited monocyte/macrophage differentiation of the cell lines or HSPCs. The mRNA encoding an ACVR1B was identified as a direct target of miR-199a-5p. Gradually increased ACVR1B expression level was detected during monocyte/macrophage differentiation of the leukemic cell lines and HSPCs, and knockdown of ACVR1B resulted in inhibition of monocyte/macrophage differentiation of HL-60 and THP-1 cells, which suggested that ACVR1B functions as a positive regulator of monocyte/macrophage differentiation. We demonstrated that miR-199a-5p overexpression or ACVR1B knockdown promoted proliferation of THP-1 cells through increasing phosphorylation of Rb. We also demonstrated that the down-regulation of ACVR1B reduced p-Smad2/3, which resulted in decreased expression of C/EBPα, a key regulator of monocyte/macrophage differentiation, and finally, inhibited monocyte/macrophage differentiation.
Transcription factors (TFs) act within wider regulatory networks to control cell identity and fate. Numerous TFs, including Scl (Tal1) and PU.1 (Spi1), are known regulators of developmental and adult haematopoiesis, but how they act within wider TF networks is still poorly understood. Transcription activator-like effectors (TALEs) are a novel class of genetic tool based on the modular DNA-binding domains of Xanthomonas TAL proteins, which enable DNA sequence-specific targeting and the manipulation of endogenous gene expression. Here, we report TALEs engineered to target the PU.1-14kb and Scl+40kb transcriptional enhancers as efficient new tools to perturb the expression of these key haematopoietic TFs. We confirmed the efficiency of these TALEs at the single-cell level using high-throughput RT-qPCR, which also allowed us to assess the consequences of both PU.1 activation and repression on wider TF networks during developmental haematopoiesis. Combined with comprehensive cellular assays, these experiments uncovered novel roles for PU.1 during early haematopoietic specification. Finally, transgenic mouse studies confirmed that the PU.1-14kb element is active at sites of definitive haematopoiesis in vivo and PU.1 is detectable in haemogenic endothelium and early committing blood cells. We therefore establish TALEs as powerful new tools to study the functionality of transcriptional networks that control developmental processes such as early haematopoiesis.
Valproic acid (VPA) exhibits important pharmacological properties but has been reported to trigger side effects, notably on the hematological system. We previously reported that VPA affects hematopoietic homeostasis by inhibiting erythroid differentiation and promoting myeloid and megakaryocyte differentiation. Here, we analyzed the effect of VPA on regulatory factors involved in erythro-megakaryocytic differentiation pathways, including transcription factors and microRNAs (miRs). We demonstrate that VPA inhibited erythroid differentiation in erythropoietin (Epo)-stimulated TF1 leukemia cells and CD34(+)/hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and in aclacinomycin-(Acla)-treated K562 cells. Mir-144/451 gene expression was decreased in all erythroid and megakaryocyte models in correlation with GATA-1 inhibition. In Epo-stimulated CD34(+)/HSCs, VPA induced the expression of the ETS family transcription factors PU.1, ETS-1, GABP-α, Fli-1 and GATA-2, which are all known to be negative regulators of erythropoiesis, while it promoted the megakaryocytic pathway. PU.1 and ETS-1 expression were induced in correlation with miR-155 inhibition; however, the GATA-1/PU.1 interaction was promoted. Using megakaryoblastic Meg-01 cells, we demonstrated that VPA induced megakaryocyte morphological features and CD61 expression. GATA-2 and miR-27a expression were increased in correlation with a decrease in RUNX1 mRNA expression, suggesting megakaryocyte differentiation. Finally, by using valpromide and the Class I HDACi MS-275, we validated that the well-described HDACi activity of VPA is not required in the inhibitory effect on erythropoiesis. Overall, this report shows that VPA modulates the erythro-megakaryocytic differentiation program through regulatory micro-networks involving GATA and ETS transcription factors and miRNAs, notably the GATA-1/miR-144/451 axis.
The mechanisms controlling the development of dendritic cells (DCs) remain incompletely understood. Using an Mysm1 knockout (Mysm1(-/-)) mouse model, we identified the histone H2A deubiquitinase Mysm1, as a critical regulator in DC differentiation. Mysm1(-/-) mice showed a global reduction of DCs in lymphoid organs, whereas development of granulocytes and macrophages were not severely affected. Hematopoietic progenitors and DC precursors were significantly decreased in Mysm1(-/-) mice and defective in Fms-like tyrosine kinase-3(Flt3) ligand-induced, but not in granulocyte macrophage-colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)-induced DC differentiation in vitro. Molecular studies demonstrated that the developmental defect of DCs from common myeloid progenitor (CMP) in Mysm1(-/-) mice is associated with decreased Flt3 expression and that Mysm1 derepresses transcription of the Flt3 gene by directing histone modifications at the Flt3 promoter region. Two molecular mechanisms were found to be responsible for the selective role of Mysm1 in lineage determination of DCs from CMPs: the selective expression of Mysm1 in a subset of CMPs and the different requirement of Mysm1 for PU.1 recruitment to the Flt3 locus vs GM-CSF-α and macrophage-colony-stimulating factor receptor loci. In conclusion, this study reveals an essential role of Mysm1 in epigenetic regulation of Flt3 transcription and DC development, and it provides a novel mechanism for lineage determination from CMP.
Runx transcription factors contribute to hematopoiesis and are frequently implicated in hematologic malignancies. All three Runx isoforms are expressed at the earliest stages of hematopoiesis; however, their function in hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is not fully elucidated. Here, we show that Runx factors are essential in HSCs by driving the expression of the hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1. Mechanistically, by using a knockin mouse model in which all three Runx binding sites in the -14kb enhancer of PU.1 are disrupted, we observed failure to form chromosomal interactions between the PU.1 enhancer and its proximal promoter. Consequently, decreased PU.1 levels resulted in diminished long-term HSC function through HSC exhaustion, which could be rescued by reintroducing a PU.1 transgene. Similarly, in a mouse model of AML/ETO9a leukemia, disrupting the Runx binding sites resulted in decreased PU.1 levels. Leukemia onset was delayed, and limiting dilution transplantation experiments demonstrated functional loss of leukemia-initiating cells. This is surprising, because low PU.1 levels have been considered a hallmark of AML/ETO leukemia, as indicated in mouse models and as shown here in samples from leukemic patients. Our data demonstrate that Runx-dependent PU.1 chromatin interaction and transcription of PU.1 are essential for both normal and leukemia stem cells.
As the transcriptional coactivator CITED2 (CBP/p300-interacting-transactivator-with-an ED-rich-tail 2) can be overexpressed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells, we analyzed the consequences of high CITED2 expression in normal and AML cells. CITED2 overexpression in normal CD34(+) cells resulted in enhanced hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) output in vitro, as well as in better hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) engraftability in NSG (NOD.Cg-Prkdcscid Il2rgtm1Wjl/SzJ) mice. This was because of an enhanced quiescence and maintenance of CD34(+)CD38(-) HSCs, due in part to an increased expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor CDKN1A. We demonstrated that PU.1 is a critical regulator of CITED2, as PU.1 repressed CITED2 expression in a DNA methyltransferase 3A/B (DNMT3A/B)-dependent manner in normal CD34(+) cells. CD34(+) cells from a subset of AML patients displayed higher expression levels of CITED2 as compared with normal CD34(+) HSPCs, and knockdown of CITED2 in AML CD34(+) cells led to a loss of long-term expansion, both in vitro and in vivo. The higher CITED2 expression resulted from reduced PU.1 activity and/or dysfunction of mutated DNMT3A/B. Collectively, our data demonstrate that increased CITED2 expression results in better HSC maintenance. In concert with low PU.1 levels, this could result in a perturbed myeloid differentiation program that contributes to leukemia maintenance.
We investigated how the equine fetus prepares its pre-immune humoral repertoire for an imminent exposure to pathogens in the neonatal period, particularly how the primary hematopoietic organs are equipped to support B cell hematopoiesis and immunoglobulin (Ig) diversity. We demonstrated that the liver and the bone marrow at approximately 100 days of gestation (DG) are active sites of hematopoiesis based on the expression of signature messenger RNA (mRNA) (c-KIT, CD34, IL7R, CXCL12, IRF8, PU.1, PAX5, NOTCH1, GATA1, CEBPA) and protein markers (CD34, CD19, IgM, CD3, CD4, CD5, CD8, CD11b, CD172A) of hematopoietic development and leukocyte differentiation molecules, respectively. To verify Ig diversity achieved during the production of B cells, V(D)J segments were sequenced in primary lymphoid organs of the equine fetus and adult horse, revealing that similar heavy chain VDJ segments and CDR3 lengths were most frequently used independent of life stage. In contrast, different lambda light chain segments were predominant in equine fetal compared to adult stage, and surprisingly, the fetus had less restricted use of variable gene segments to construct the lambda chain. Fetal Igs also contained elements of sequence diversity, albeit to a smaller degree than that of the adult horse. Our data suggest that the B cells produced in the liver and bone marrow of the equine fetus generate a wide repertoire of pre-immune Igs for protection, and the more diverse use of different lambda variable gene segments in fetal life may provide the neonate an opportunity to respond to a wider range of antigens at birth.
GATA-3 expression is crucial for T cell development and peaks during commitment to the T cell lineage, midway through the CD4(-)CD8(-) (double-negative [DN]) stages 1-3. We used RNA interference and conditional deletion to reduce GATA-3 protein acutely at specific points during T cell differentiation in vitro. Even moderate GATA-3 reduction killed DN1 cells, delayed progression to the DN2 stage, skewed DN2 gene regulation, and blocked appearance of the DN3 phenotype. Although a Bcl-2 transgene rescued DN1 survival and improved DN2 cell generation, it did not restore DN3 differentiation. Gene expression analyses (quantitative PCR, RNA sequencing) showed that GATA-3-deficient DN2 cells quickly upregulated genes, including Spi1 (PU.1) and Bcl11a, and downregulated genes, including Cpa3, Ets1, Zfpm1, Bcl11b, Il9r, and Il17rb with gene-specific kinetics and dose dependencies. These targets could mediate two distinct roles played by GATA-3 in lineage commitment, as revealed by removing wild-type or GATA-3-deficient early T lineage cells from environmental Notch signals. GATA-3 worked as a potent repressor of B cell potential even at low expression levels, so that only full deletion of GATA-3 enabled pro-T cells to reveal B cell potential. The ability of GATA-3 to block B cell development did not require T lineage commitment factor Bcl11b. In prethymic multipotent precursors, however, titration of GATA-3 activity using tamoxifen-inducible GATA-3 showed that GATA-3 inhibits B and myeloid developmental alternatives at different threshold doses. Furthermore, differential impacts of a GATA-3 obligate repressor construct imply that B and myeloid development are inhibited through distinct transcriptional mechanisms. Thus, the pattern of GATA-3 expression sequentially produces B lineage exclusion, T lineage progression, and myeloid-lineage exclusion for commitment.
Interferon Regulatory Factor 5 (IRF5) plays a major role in setting up an inflammatory macrophage phenotype, but the molecular basis of its transcriptional activity is not fully understood. In this study, we conduct a comprehensive genome-wide analysis of IRF5 recruitment in macrophages stimulated with bacterial lipopolysaccharide and discover that IRF5 binds to regulatory elements of highly transcribed genes. Analysis of protein:DNA microarrays demonstrates that IRF5 recognizes the canonical IRF-binding (interferon-stimulated response element [ISRE]) motif in vitro. However, IRF5 binding in vivo appears to rely on its interactions with other proteins. IRF5 binds to a noncanonical composite PU.1:ISRE motif, and its recruitment is aided by RelA. Global gene expression analysis in macrophages deficient in IRF5 and RelA highlights the direct role of the RelA:IRF5 cistrome in regulation of a subset of key inflammatory genes. We map the RelA:IRF5 interaction domain and suggest that interfering with it would offer selective targeting of macrophage inflammatory activities.
During the last decades, many studies have investigated the transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of lineage decision in the hematopoietic system. These efforts led to a model in which extrinsic signals and intrinsic cues establish a permissive chromatin context upon which a regulatory network of transcription factors and epigenetic modifiers act to guide the differentiation of hematopoietic lineages. These networks include lineage-specific factors that further modify the epigenetic landscape and promote the generation of specific cell types. The process of B lymphopoiesis requires a set of transcription factors, including Ikaros, PU.1, E2A, and FoxO1 to 'prime' cis-regulatory regions for subsequent activation by the B-lineage-specific transcription factors EBF1 and Pax-5. The expression of EBF1 is initiated by the combined action of E2A and FoxO1, and it is further enhanced and maintained by several positive feedback loops that include Pax-5 and IL-7 signaling. EBF1 acts in concert with Ikaros, PU.1, Runx1, E2A, FoxO1, and Pax-5 to establish the B cell-specific transcription profile. EBF1 and Pax-5 also collaborate to repress alternative cell fates and lock cells into the B-lineage fate. In addition to the functions of EBF1 in establishing and maintaining B-cell identity, EBF1 is required to coordinate differentiation with cell proliferation and survival.
The activation, or maturation, of dendritic cells (DCs) is crucial for the initiation of adaptive T-cell mediated immune responses. Research on the molecular mechanisms implicated in DC maturation has focused primarily on inducible gene-expression events promoting the acquisition of new functions, such as cytokine production and enhanced T-cell-stimulatory capacity. In contrast, mechanisms that modulate DC function by inducing widespread gene-silencing remain poorly understood. Yet the termination of key functions is known to be critical for the function of activated DCs. Genome-wide analysis of activation-induced histone deacetylation, combined with genome-wide quantification of activation-induced silencing of nascent transcription, led us to identify a novel inducible transcriptional-repression pathway that makes major contributions to the DC-maturation process. This silencing response is a rapid primary event distinct from repression mechanisms known to operate at later stages of DC maturation. The repressed genes function in pivotal processes--including antigen-presentation, extracellular signal detection, intracellular signal transduction and lipid-mediator biosynthesis--underscoring the central contribution of the silencing mechanism to rapid reshaping of DC function. Interestingly, promoters of the repressed genes exhibit a surprisingly high frequency of PU.1-occupied sites, suggesting a novel role for this lineage-specific transcription factor in marking genes poised for inducible repression.
Transcription factor Twist-1 plays essential roles in specification and differentiation of mesoderm-derived tissues. Growing evidences now link Twist-1 to the acquisition of stem-cell-like properties. However, the role of Twist-1 in hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) remains largely uncharacterized. We report that Twist-1 is more highly expressed in murine HSC and its expression declines with differentiation. To investigate Twist-1 gene function, retroviral-mediated overexpression or removal experiments are performed. Competitive repopulation studies demonstrate that enforced expression of Twist-1 in HSC-enriched Lin(-) c-Kit(+) Sca-1(+) (LKS) cells results in an increase in the size of the G(0) population, and in their reconstitution ability after the first and a second transplantation. Conversely, removal of Twist-1 in LKS cells impairs their ability to repopulate. In addition, increased Twist-1 expression causes a shift toward production of myeloid cells. Twist-1 transduction in LKS cells activates myeloid lineage-determining factors PU.1 and GATA-1 and downregulates lymphoid factor GATA-3 in vitro, suggesting that Twist-1-mediated myeloid skewing occurs in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). These findings indicate that Twist-1 is not only involved in the maintenance of HSC dormancy and self-renewal capacity but also implicated in the myeloid lineage fate choice of HSPCs. Exploration of the underlying mechanisms reveals that Runx1/c-Mpl/Tie2 regulatory pathway could possibly account for the observed effects caused by Twist-1 overexpression. Our study provides the first evidence supporting a role for Twist-1 in hematopoiesis.
PU.1, an Ets family transcription factor, was previously demonstrated expressed in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes and had an negative effect on adiopogenesis. However, the underlying mechanism remains elusive. Here, miR-191 was identified as an inhibitor of adipocyte differentiation through targeting the 3' untranslated regions of C/EBPβ, the initial factor in the C/EBPα/β-PPARγ terminal pathway of adipogenic differentiation. MiR-191 suppressed the lipid accumulation by Oil Red O staining and downregulated the levels of adipogenic marker genes PPARγ (P<0.01), aP2 (P<0.01) and FAS (P<0.05). Then, we found that PU.1 overexpression resulted in upregulation of miR-191 and adipogenic inhibition. Likewise, PU.1 overexpression rescued the miR-191 decrease and resisted the adipogenic promotion caused by miR-191 oligonucleotide inhibitor. Collectively, these results revealed that PU.1 promoted miR-191 to suppress adipogenesis 3T3-L1 preadipocyte and indicated a new mechanism of PU.1 inhibiting adipogenesis.
Vaccination is an effective means of preventing infectious diseases, including those caused by Helicobacter pylori. In this study, we constructed a novel multi-epitope vaccine, CTB-UE, composed of the cholera toxin B subunit and tandem copies of the B and Th cell epitopes from the H. pylori urease A and B subunits. We evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of the multi-epitope vaccine CTB-UE against H. pylori infection in a Mongolian gerbil model and studied its immuno-protective mechanisms. The experimental results indicated that urease activity, H. pylori colonisation density, the levels of IL-8 and TNF-α in the serum, and the levels of COX-2 and NAP in gastric tissue were significantly lower and the IgG level in the serum and the IFN-γ level in spleen lymphocytes were significantly higher in the vaccinated group compared with the model control group; additionally, gastric mucosal inflammation was notably alleviated following vaccination. The results showed that CTB-UE had a good therapeutic effect on H. pylori infection. The immuno-protective mechanism was closely related to the immune response mediated by microRNA-155, the expression of which was strongly up-regulated after CTB-UE administration. The expression levels of the microRNA-155 target proteins IFN-γRα, AID, and PU.1 were significantly down-regulated; these results indicated that CTB-UE induced an immune response biased towards Th1 cells by up-regulating microRNA-155 to inhibit IFN-γRα expression and induced a humoral immune response towards B cells by up-regulating microRNA-155 to inhibit PU.1 and AID expression. These results demonstrate that the multi-epitope vaccine CTB-UE may be a promising therapeutic vaccine against H. pylori infection and is a new therapeutic tool for human use.
Almost 30% of all acute myeloid leukemias (AML) are associated with an internal tandem duplication (ITD) in the juxtamembrane domain of FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 receptor (FLT3). Patients with FLT3-ITD mutations tend to have a poor prognosis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have a pivotal role in myeloid differentiation and leukemia. MiRNA-155 (MiR-155) was found to be upregulated in FLT3-ITD-associated AMLs. In this study, we discovered that FLT3-ITD signaling induces the oncogenic miR-155. We show in vitro and in vivo that miR-155 expression is regulated by FLT3-ITD downstream targets nuclear factor-κB (p65) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5). Further, we demonstrate that miR-155 targets the myeloid transcription factor PU.1. Knockdown of miR-155 or overexpression of PU.1 blocks proliferation and induces apoptosis of FLT3-ITD-associated leukemic cells. Our data demonstrate a novel network in which FLT3-ITD signaling induces oncogenic miR-155 by p65 and STAT5 in AML, thereby targeting transcription factor PU.1.
Most murine radiation-induced acute myeloid leukemias involve biallelic inactivation of the PU.1 gene, with one allele being lost through a radiation-induced chromosomal deletion and the other allele affected by a recurrent point mutation in codon 235 that is likely to be spontaneous. The short latencies of acute myeloid leukemias occurring in nonirradiated mice engineered with PU.1 conditional knockout or knockdown alleles suggest that once both copies of PU.1 have been lost any other steps involved in leukemogenesis occur rapidly. Yet, spontaneous acute myeloid leukemias have not been reported in mice heterozygous for a PU.1 knockout allele, an observation that conflicts with the understanding that the PU.1 codon 235 mutation is spontaneous. Here we describe experiments that show that the lack of spontaneous leukemia in PU.1 heterozygous knockout mice is not due to insufficient monitoring times or mouse numbers or the genetic background of the knockout mice. The results reveal that spontaneous leukemias that develop in mice of the mixed 129S2/SvPas and C57BL/6 background of knockout mice arise by a pathway that does not involve biallelic PU.1 mutation. In addition, the latency of radiation-induced leukemia in PU.1 heterozygous mice on a genetic background susceptible to radiation-induced leukemia indicates that the codon 235 mutation is not a rate-limiting step in radiation leukemogenesis driven by PU.1 loss.
BACKGROUND: Leukemia cell lines are utilized as tools for molecular analysis. Their implementation in therapy will require standards for quality control, including appropriate selection criteria for functional analysis and efficacy determination.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Characteristics of six human leukemia cell lines -Kasumi-1, NB-4, MOLM-13, MV-4-11, K562, and Jurkat cells-were investigated using multiple color analysis of surface antigen expression and comparative analysis of gene expression.RESULTS: Differentiation states of Kasumi-1 and MOLM-13 cells are colony-forming units-granulocyte/macrophage equivalent cells to myeloblasts with comparatively high Growth factor independent-1(GFI1) and Transcription factor PU.1 (PU.1) expression, respectively. NB4 and MV-4-11 express high levels of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein-alpha (CEBPα) and differentiate from myeloblasts to pro-monocytes and myeloblasts, respectively. K562 cells are colony-forming units-erythroid equivalent cells to erythroblasts, with the highest expression of GATA-binding factor 2 (GATA2), GATA1 and Friend of gata-1 (FOG1). Jurkat cells are pro-T to mature T-cells with the highest Neurogenic locus notch-1 homolog protein 1 (NOTCH1) expression.CONCLUSION: Our study gives a useful guideline of standards for appropriate usage of leukemia cell lines for examining novel targets in vitro.
We recently revealed that myeloid master regulator SPI1/PU.1 directly represses metallothionein (MT) 1G through its epigenetic activity of PU.1, but the functions of MT1G in myeloid differentiation remain unknown. To clarify this, we established MT1G-overexpressing acute promyelocytic leukemia NB4 (NB4MTOE) cells, and investigated whether MT1G functionally contributes to all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-induced NB4 cell differentiation. Real-time PCR analyses demonstrated that the inductions of CD11b and CD11c and reductions in myeloperoxidase and c-myc by ATRA were significantly attenuated in NB4MTOE cells. Morphological examination revealed that the percentages of differentiated cells induced by ATRA were reduced in NB4MTOE cells. Since G1 arrest is a hallmark of ATRA-induced NB4 cell differentiation, we observed a decrease in G1 accumulation, as well as decreases in p21WAF1/CIP1 and cyclin D1 inductions, by ATRA in NB4MTOE cells. Nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction assays revealed that the proportions of NBT-positive cells were decreased in NB4MTOE cells in the presence of ATRA. Microarray analyses showed that the changes in expression of several myeloid differentiation-related genes (GATA2, azurocidin 1, pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase 1, matrix metallopeptidase -8, S100 calcium-binding protein A12, neutrophil cytosolic factor 2 and oncostatin M) induced by ATRA were disturbed in NB4MTOE cells. Collectively, overexpression of MT1G inhibits the proper differentiation of myeloid cells.
The PU.1 transcription factor is essential for myeloid development. We investigated if the microtubule-associated protein 1S (MAP1S) is a novel PU.1 target with a link to autophagy, a cellular recycling pathway. Comparable to PU.1, MAP1S expression was significantly repressed in primary AML blasts as compared to mature neutrophils. Accordingly, MAP1S expression was induced during neutrophil differentiation of CD34(+) progenitor and APL cells. Moreover, PU.1 bound to the MAP1S promoter and induced MAP1S expression during APL differentiation. Inhibiting MAP1S resulted in aberrant neutrophil differentiation and autophagy. Taken together, our findings implicate the PU.1-regulated MAP1S gene in neutrophil differentiation and autophagy control.
RXR signaling is predicted to have a major impact in macrophages, but neither the biological consequence nor the genomic basis of its ligand activation is known. Comprehensive genome-wide studies were carried out to map liganded RXR-mediated transcriptional changes, active binding sites, and cistromic interactions in the context of the macrophage genome architecture. The macrophage RXR cistrome has 5200 genomic binding sites, which are not impacted by ligand. Active enhancers are characterized by PU.1 binding, an increase of enhancer RNA, and P300 recruitment. Using these features, 387 liganded RXR-bound enhancers were linked to 226 genes, which predominantly reside in CTCF/cohesin-limited functional domains. These findings were molecularly validated using chromosome conformation capture (3C) and 3C combined with sequencing (3C-seq), and we show that selected long-range enhancers communicate with promoters via stable or RXR-induced loops and that some of the enhancers interact with each other, forming an interchromosomal network. A set of angiogenic genes, including Vegfa, has liganded RXR-controlled enhancers and provides the macrophage with a novel inducible program.
Alterations in DNA methylation patterns in peripheral blood leukocytes precede atherosclerotic lesion development in mouse models of atherosclerosis and have been linked to cardiovascular death in patients. The aim of this study is to investigate the long-term changes induced by WTD feeding on BM cells and the consequences for atherosclerosis susceptibility. Hereto, WTD BM or Chow BM was transplanted into LDLR KO mice on chow. BM from WTD BM recipient mice exhibited hypomethylation of CpG regions in the genes encoding Pu.1 and IRF8, key regulators of monocyte proliferation and macrophage differentiation. In agreement, in blood, the numbers of leukocytes were 40% (P<0.05) higher as a result of an increase in F4/80(+) monocytes (3.4-fold; P<0.01). An increase of CD11c(++) cells was also found (2.4-fold; P<0.05). Furthermore, spleens were enlarged, and the percentage of F4/80(+) cells expressing CD86 was induced (1.8-fold; P<0.01), indicating increased activation of splenic macrophages. Importantly, mice reconstituted with WTD BM showed a significant, 1.4-fold (P<0.05) increase in aortic root plaque size in the absence of changes in serum cholesterol. We conclude that WTD challenge induces transplantable epigenetic changes in BM, alterations in the hematopoietic system, and increased susceptibility to atherosclerosis. Manipulation of the epigenome, when used in conjunction with blood lipid reduction, could thus prove beneficial to treat cardiovascular disorders.
PU.1 is essential for the differentiation of haemopoietic precursors and is strongly implicated in leukaemogenesis, yet the protein interactions that regulate its activity in different myeloid lineages are still largely unknown. In the present study, by combining fluorescent EMSA (electrophoretic mobility-shift assay) with MS, we reveal the presence of hnRNP K (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K) in molecular complexes that PU.1 forms on the CD11b promoter during the agonist-induced maturation of AML (acute myeloid leukaemia)-derived cells along both the granulocytic and the monocytic lineages. Although hnRNP K and PU.1 act synergistically during granulocytic differentiation, hnRNP K seems to have a negative effect on PU.1 activity during monocytic maturation. Since hnRNP K acts as a docking platform, integrating signal transduction pathways to nucleic acid-directed processes, it may assist PU.1 in activating or repressing transcription by recruiting lineage-specific components of the transcription machinery. It is therefore possible that hnRNP K plays a key role in the mechanisms underlying the specific targeting of protein-protein interactions identified as mediators of transcriptional activation or repression and may be responsible for the block of haemopoietic differentiation.
It has been well known that IL-32 exerts pro-inflammatory effects on the various inflammatory diseases in clinical studies. Here, we confirmed that IL-32θ, a new isoform of IL-32, decreased the phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-induced IL-1β expression in THP-1 human myelomonocyte. We previously reported that the IL-32 isoforms control expressions of other cytokines via novel PKCs. Likewise, IL-32θ interacted with PKCδ, and consequently inhibited PKCδ-mediated phosphorylation of PU.1. Moreover, IL-32θ attenuated the localization of PU.1 into the IL-1β promoter region. These findings reveal that IL-32θ reduces PKCδ-mediated phosphorylation of PU.1, resulting in attenuation of IL-1β production.
Members of the WD-repeat protein interacting with phosphoinositides (WIPI) family are phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PI3P) effectors that are essential for the formation of autophagosomes. Autophagosomes, unique double-membraned organelles, are characteristic for autophagy, a bulk degradation mechanism with cytoprotective and homeostatic function. Both, WIPI-1 and WIPI-2 are aberrantly expressed in several solid tumors, linking these genes to carcinogenesis. We now found that the expression of WIPI-1 was significantly reduced in a large cohort of 98 primary acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patient samples (complex karyotypes; t(8;21); t(15,17); inv(16)). In contrast, the expression of WIPI-2 was only reduced in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), a distinct subtype of AML (t(15,17)). As AML cells are blocked in their differentiation, we tested if the expression levels of WIPI-1 and WIPI-2 increase during all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-induced neutrophil differentiation of APL. According to the higher WIPI-1 expression in granulocytes compared with immature blast cells, WIPI-1 but not WIPI-2 expression was significantly induced during neutrophil differentiation of NB4 APL cells. Interestingly, the induction of WIPI-1 expression was dependent on the transcription factor PU.1, a master regulator of myelopoiesis, supporting our notion that WIPI-1 expression is reduced in AML patients lacking proper PU-1 activity. Further, knocking down WIPI-1 in NB4 cells markedly attenuated the autophagic flux and significantly reduced neutrophil differentiation. This result was also achieved by knocking down WIPI-2, suggesting that both WIPI-1 and WIPI-2 are functionally required and not redundant in mediating the PI3P signal at the onset of autophagy in NB4 cells. In line with these data, downregulation of PI3KC3 (hVPS34), which generates PI3P upstream of WIPIs, also inhibited neutrophil differentiation. In conclusion, we demonstrate that both WIPI-1 and WIPI-2 are required for the PI3P-dependent autophagic activity during neutrophil differentiation, and that PU.1-dependent WIPI-1 expression is significantly repressed in primary AML patient samples and that the induction of autophagic flux is associated with neutrophil differentiation of APL cells.
There are a growing number of reports showing the influence of redox modulation in cellular signaling. Although the regulation of hematopoiesis by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) has been described, their direct participation in the differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) remains unclear. In this work, the direct role of nitric oxide (NO(•)), a RNS, in the modulation of hematopoiesis was investigated using two sources of NO(•) , one produced by endothelial cells stimulated with carbachol in vitro and another using the NO(•)-donor S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP) in vivo. Two main NO(•) effects were observed: proliferation of HSCs-especially of the short-term HSCs-and its commitment and terminal differentiation to the myeloid lineage. NO(•)-induced proliferation was characterized by the increase in the number of cycling HSCs and hematopoietic progenitor cells positive to BrdU and Ki-67, upregulation of Notch-1, Cx43, PECAM-1, CaR, ERK1/2, Akt, p38, PKC, and c-Myc. NO(•)-induced HSCs differentiation was characterized by the increase in granulocytic-macrophage progenitors, granulocyte-macrophage colony forming units, mature myeloid cells, upregulation of PU.1, and C/EBPα genes concomitantly to the downregulation of GATA-3 and Ikz-3 genes, activation of Stat5 and downregulation of the other analyzed proteins mentioned above. Also, redox status modulation differed between proliferation and differentiation responses, which is likely associated with the transition of the proliferative to differentiation status. Our findings provide evidence of the role of NO(•) in inducing HSCs proliferation and myeloid differentiation involving multiple signaling.
OBJECTIVE: Several pathogenic roles attributed over the past two decades to either T helper (Th)1 or Th2 cells are increasingly becoming associated with interleukin (IL)-17 and most recently IL-9 signalling. However, the implication of IL-9 in IBD has not been addressed so far.DESIGN: We investigated the expression of IL-9 and IL-9R by using peripheral blood, biopsies and surgical samples. We addressed the functional role of IL-9 signalling by analysis of downstream effector proteins. Using Caco-2 cell monolayers we followed the effect of IL-9 on wound healing.RESULTS: IL-9 mRNA expression was significantly increased in inflamed samples from patients with UC as compared with controls. CD3(+) T cells were major IL-9-expressing cells and some polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN) also expressed IL-9. IL-9 was co-localised with the key Th9 transcription factors interferon regulatory factor 4 and PU.1. Systemically, IL-9 was abundantly produced by activated peripheral blood lymphocytes, whereas its receptor was overexpressed on gut resident and circulating PMN. IL-9 stimulation of the latter induced IL-8 production in a dose-dependent manner and rendered PMN resistant to apoptosis suggesting a functional role for IL-9R signalling in the propagation of gut inflammation. Furthermore, IL-9R was overexpressed on gut epithelial cells and IL-9 induced STAT5 activation in these cells. Moreover, IL-9 inhibited the growth of Caco-2 epithelial cell monolayers in wound healing experiments.CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide evidence that IL-9 is predominantly involved in the pathogenesis of UC suggesting that targeting IL-9 might become a therapeutic option for patients with UC.
ETS family transcription factors regulate diverse genes through binding at cognate DNA sites that overlap substantially in sequence. The DNA-binding domains of ETS proteins (ETS domains) are highly conserved structurally yet share limited amino acid homology. To define the mechanistic implications of sequence diversity within the ETS family, we characterized the thermodynamics and kinetics of DNA site recognition by the ETS domains of Ets-1 and PU.1, which represent the extremes in amino acid divergence among ETS proteins. Even though the two ETS domains bind their optimal sites with similar affinities under physiologic conditions, their nature of site recognition differs strikingly in terms of the role of hydration and counter ion release. The data suggest two distinct mechanisms wherein Ets-1 follows a "dry" mechanism that rapidly parses sites through electrostatic interactions and direct protein-DNA contacts, whereas PU.1 utilizes hydration to interrogate sequence-specific sites and form a long-lived complex relative to the Ets-1 counterpart. The kinetic persistence of the high affinity PU.1 · DNA complex may be relevant to an emerging role of PU.1, but not Ets-1, as a pioneer transcription factor in vivo. In addition, PU.1 activity is critical to the development and function of macrophages and lymphocytes, which present osmotically variable environments, and hydration-dependent specificity may represent an important regulatory mechanism in vivo, a hypothesis that finds support in gene expression profiles of primary murine macrophages.
BACKGROUND: Retroviral elements are pervasively transcribed and dynamically regulated during development. While multiple histone- and DNA-modifying enzymes have broadly been associated with their global silencing, little is known about how the many diverse retroviral families are each selectively recognized.RESULTS: Here we show that the zinc finger protein Krüppel-like Factor 3 (KLF3) specifically silences transcription from the ORR1A0 long terminal repeat in murine fetal and adult erythroid cells. In the absence of KLF3, we detect widespread transcription from ORR1A0 elements driven by the master erythroid regulator KLF1. In several instances these aberrant transcripts are spliced to downstream genic exons. One such chimeric transcript produces a novel, dominant negative isoform of PU.1 that can induce erythroid differentiation.CONCLUSIONS: We propose that KLF3 ensures the integrity of the murine erythroid transcriptome through the selective repression of a particular retroelement and is likely one of multiple sequence-specific factors that cooperate to achieve global silencing.
We recently demonstrated by using PU.1-knockdown K562 (K562 PU.1KD) cells stably expressing PU.1 short inhibitory RNAs and PU.1-overexpressing K562 (K562 PU.1OE) cells, that therapeutic concentrations of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-azadC) induce erythroid differentiation of these cells and that the PU.1 expression level is closely associated with the differentiating and apoptotic effects of 5-azadC on K562 cells. In this study, we investigated whether the effects of low-dose cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C), which is another erythroid differentiation inducer in K562 cells, is associated with the expression level of PU.1 in these cells. As a result, we demonstrated that the effect of Ara-C on cell viability and differentiation, as determined by the WST-8 assay and β-globin mRNA expression analysis, respectively, was suppressed in K562 PU.1KD cells compared to their controls. Collectively, these findings suggest that sufficient expression of PU.1 is indispensable for the erythroid differentiation of K562 cells.
BACKGROUND: Aberrant DNA methylation is frequently found in human malignancies including acute myeloid leukemia (AML). While most studies focus on later disease stages, the onset of aberrant DNA methylation events and their dynamics during leukemic progression are largely unknown.METHODS: We screened genome-wide for aberrant CpG island methylation in three disease stages of a murine AML model that is driven by hypomorphic expression of the hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1. DNA methylation levels of selected genes were correlated with methylation levels of CD34+ cells and lineage negative, CD127-, c-Kit+, Sca-1+ cells; common myeloid progenitors; granulocyte-macrophage progenitors; and megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitors.RESULTS: We identified 1,184 hypermethylated array probes covering 762 associated genes in the preleukemic stage. During disease progression, the number of hypermethylated genes increased to 5,465 in the late leukemic disease stage. Using publicly available data, we found a significant enrichment of PU.1 binding sites in the preleukemic hypermethylated genes, suggesting that shortage of PU.1 makes PU.1 binding sites in the DNA accessible for aberrant methylation. Many known AML associated genes such as RUNX1 and HIC1 were found among the preleukemic hypermethylated genes. Nine novel hypermethylated genes, FZD5, FZD8, PRDM16, ROBO3, CXCL14, BCOR, ITPKA, HES6 and TAL1, the latter four being potential PU.1 targets, were confirmed to be hypermethylated in human normal karyotype AML patients, underscoring the relevance of the mouse model for human AML.CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified early aberrantly methylated genes as potential contributors to onset and progression of AML.
Hematopoiesis is a complex process requiring multiple regulators for hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPC) and differentiation to multi-lineage blood cells. TC1(C8orf4) is implicated in cancers, hematological malignancies and inflammatory activation. Here, we report that Tc1 regulates hematopoiesis in mice. Myeloid and lymphoid cells are increased markedly in peripheral blood of Tc1-deleted mice compared to wild type controls. Red blood cells are small-sized but increased in number. The bone marrow of Tc1-/- mice is normocellular histologically. However, Lin-Sca-1+c-Kit+ (LSK) cells are expanded in Tc1-/- mice compared to wild type controls. The expanded population mostly consists of CD150-CD48+ cells, suggesting the expansion of lineage-restricted hematopoietic progenitor cells. Colony forming units (CFU) are increased in Tc1-/- mice bone marrow cells compared to controls. In wild type mice bone marrow, Tc1 is expressed in a limited population of HSPC but not in differentiated cells. Major myeloid transcriptional regulators such as Pu.1 and Cebpα are not up-regulated in Tc1-/- mice bone marrow. Our findings indicate that TC1 is a novel hematopoietic regulator. The mechanisms of TC1-dependent HSPC regulation and lineage determination are unknown.
Erratum in    Nat Immunol. 2015 Feb;16(2):214.
BACKGROUND: Type 1 myeloid dendritic cells (mDCs) contribute to inception of allergic asthma (AA) and are regulated by epithelial-derived cytokines.OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether mDCs from AA patients are primed for thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP)-driven responses.METHODS: mDCs from 18 AA patients and 15 controls were purified using immunomagnetic sorting. Cells were pulsed with TSLP or Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Der p) allergen, before FACS phenotyping and co-culture with allogeneic CD4+ T cells. Bronchial biopsies from 15 AA patients and four controls were immunostained for CD1c and TSLP receptor (TSLPR).RESULTS: Allergic asthma patients had a higher proportion of TSLPR+ mDCs, in blood and bronchial mucosa. When compared to mDCs from controls, both TSLP- and Der p-pulsed blood mDCs from AA patients induced increased polarization of CD4+ T cells into Th2 cells (IL-5, IL-13, and GATA3+), while only TSLP-mDCs promoted Th9 cells (IL-9 and PU.1+ /IRF4+). In addition, OX40L was induced upon TSLP stimulation and was required for the induction of Th2, but not Th9, cells. In contrast, development of Th9 cells in this model depended on TGF-β1.CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate overlapping but partially distinct effects of TSLP and Der p allergen pathways, showing that DCs are primed in human asthma for TSLP-driven induction of both Th2 and Th9 cells. This novel TSLP/mDC/Th9 axis operates through a distinct, OX40L-independent pathway. These data further highlight the TSLP pathway as a relevant target in human asthma.
Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) is central to the transcriptional network of activated B-cell-like diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (ABC-DLBCL), an aggressive lymphoma subgroup defined by gene expression profiling. Since cofactor association modifies transcriptional regulatory input by IRF4, we assessed genome occupancy by IRF4 and endogenous cofactors in ABC-DLBCL cell lines. IRF4 partners with SPIB, PU.1 and BATF genome-wide, but SPIB provides the dominant IRF4 partner in this context. Upon SPIB knockdown IRF4 occupancy is depleted and neither PU.1 nor BATF acutely compensates. Integration with ENCODE data from lymphoblastoid cell line GM12878, demonstrates that IRF4 adopts either SPIB- or BATF-centric genome-wide distributions in related states of post-germinal centre B-cell transformation. In primary DLBCL high-SPIB and low-BATF or the reciprocal low-SPIB and high-BATF mRNA expression links to differential gene expression profiles across nine data sets, identifying distinct associations with SPIB occupancy, signatures of B-cell differentiation stage and potential pathogenetic mechanisms. In a population-based patient cohort, SPIBhigh/BATFlow-ABC-DLBCL is enriched for mutation of MYD88, and SPIBhigh/BATFlow-ABC-DLBCL with MYD88-L265P mutation identifies a small subgroup of patients among this otherwise aggressive disease subgroup with distinct favourable outcome. We conclude that differential expression of IRF4 cofactors SPIB and BATF identifies biologically and clinically significant heterogeneity among ABC-DLBCL.
C/EBPα is expressed preferentially in myeloid compared with lymphoid or erythroid cells and directs myeloid lineage specification. C/EBPα is also expressed at lower levels in HSCs and in several nonhematopoietic tissues. The Cebpa gene has a conserved, 450-bp segment at +37 kb that harbors enhancer-specific epigenetic marks and is activate in a myeloid cell line. Herein, we characterize transgenic C57BL/6 mice, in which the Cebpa enhancer and 845-bp promoter regulate a hCD4 reporter. FACS analysis, in vitro colony assays, and in vivo competitive and secondary transplantation revealed that myeloid but not MEPs or lymphoid progenitors and also functional LT-HSCs are found almost exclusively in the Cebpa-hCD4(+) compared with hCD4(-) marrow population. hCD4(+) CMP yielded predominantly myeloid, whereas hCD4(-) CMP generated mainly Meg/E colonies. Providing insight into control of CMP maturation, Cebpa and Pu.1 RNAs were preferentially expressed in hCD4(+) CMP, Scl, Gata2, Gata1, Klf1, Ets1, and Fli1 predominated in hCD4(-) CMP, and Runx1, Myb, HoxA9, and Erg levels were similar in both. Cebpa-hCD4 transgene expression was lacking in multiple nonhematopoietic tissues. In summary, the +37-kb Cebpa enhancer and promoter are sufficient for marrow myeloid progenitor and LT-HSC-specific expression.
The directed differentiation toward erythroid (E) or megakaryocytic (MK) lineages by the MK-E progenitor (MEP) could enhance the ex vivo generation of red blood cells and platelets for therapeutic transfusions. The lineage choice at the MEP bifurcation is controlled in large part by activity within the intracellular signal transduction network, the output of which determines the activity of transcription factors (TFs) and ultimately gene expression. Although many TFs have been implicated, E or MK differentiation is a complex process requiring multiple days, and the dynamics of TF activities during commitment and terminal maturation are relatively unexplored. Herein, we applied a living cell array for the large-scale, dynamic quantification of TF activities during MEP bifurcation. A panel of hematopoietic TFs (GATA-1, GATA-2, SCL/TAL1, FLI-1, NF-E2, PU.1, c-Myb) was characterized during E and MK differentiation of bipotent K562 cells. Dynamic TF activity profiles associated with differentiation towards each lineage were identified, and validated with previous reports. From these activity profiles, we show that GATA-1 is an important hub during early hemin- and PMA-induced differentiation, and reveal several characteristic TF interactions for E and MK differentiation that confirm regulatory mechanisms documented in the literature. Additionally, we highlight several novel TF interactions at various stages of E and MK differentiation. Furthermore, we investigated the mechanism by which nicotinamide (NIC) promoted terminal MK maturation using an MK-committed cell line, CHRF-288-11 (CHRF). Concomitant with its enhancement of ploidy, NIC strongly enhanced the activity of three TFs with known involvement in terminal MK maturation: FLI-1, NF-E2, and p53. Dynamic profiling of TF activity represents a novel tool to complement traditional assays focused on mRNA and protein expression levels to understand progenitor cell differentiation.
Transposable elements (TEs) are a prominent feature of most eukaryotic genomes. Despite rapidly accumulating evidence for the role of TE-driven insertional mutagenesis and structural variation in genome evolution, few clear examples of individual TEs impacting biology via perturbed gene regulation are available. A recent report describes the discovery of an alternative promoter for the murine erythroid transcription factor Pu.1. This promoter is located in an ORR1A0 long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposon intronic to Pu.1 and is regulated by the Krüppel-like factors KLF1 and KLF3. Expression of the resultant chimeric transcript, called Pu.2, spontaneously induces erythroid differentiation in vitro. These experiments illustrate how transcription factor binding sites spread by retrotransposition have the potential to impact networks encoding key biological processes in the host genome.
BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate complex transcriptional networks underpin immune responses. However, little is known about the specific miRNA networks that control differentiation of specific leukocyte subsets. In this study, we profiled miRNA expression during differentiation of eosinophils from bone marrow (BM) progenitors (bmEos), and correlated expression with potential mRNA targets involved in crucial regulatory functions. Profiling was performed on whole BM cultures to document the dynamic changes in miRNA expression in the BM microenvironment over the differentiation period. miRNA for network analysis were identified in BM cultures enriched in differentiating eosinophils, and chosen for their potential ability to target mRNA of factors that are known to play critical roles in eosinophil differentiation pathways or cell identify.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We identified 68 miRNAs with expression patterns that were up- or down- regulated 5-fold or more during bmEos differentiation. By employing TargetScan and MeSH databases, we identified 348 transcripts involved in 30 canonical pathways as potentially regulated by these miRNAs. Furthermore, by applying miRanda and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA), we identified 13 specific miRNAs that are temporally associated with the expression of IL-5Rα and CCR3 and 14 miRNAs associated with the transcription factors GATA-1/2, PU.1 and C/EBPε. We have also identified 17 miRNAs that may regulate the expression of TLRs 4 and 13 during eosinophil differentiation, although we could identify no miRNAs targeting the prominent secretory effector, eosinophil major basic protein.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: This is the first study to map changes in miRNA expression in whole BM cultures during the differentiation of eosinophils, and to predict functional links between miRNAs and their target mRNAs for the regulation of eosinophilopoiesis. Our findings provide an important resource that will promote the platform for further understanding of the role of these non-coding RNAs in the regulation of eosinophil differentiation and function.
Transcription factors (TFs) preferentially bind sites contained in regions of computationally predicted high nucleosomal occupancy, suggesting that nucleosomes are gatekeepers of TF binding sites. However, because of their complexity mammalian genomes contain millions of randomly occurring, unbound TF consensus binding sites. We hypothesized that the information controlling nucleosome assembly may coincide with the information that enables TFs to bind cis-regulatory elements while ignoring randomly occurring sites. Hence, nucleosomes would selectively mask genomic sites that can be contacted by TFs and thus be potentially functional. The hematopoietic pioneer TF Pu.1 maintained nucleosome depletion at macrophage-specific enhancers that displayed a broad range of nucleosome occupancy in other cell types and in reconstituted chromatin. We identified a minimal set of DNA sequence and shape features that accurately predicted both Pu.1 binding and nucleosome occupancy genome-wide. These data reveal a basic organizational principle of mammalian cis-regulatory elements whereby TF recruitment and nucleosome deposition are controlled by overlapping DNA sequence features.
DCs develop from multipotent progenitors (MPPs), which commit into DC-restricted common dendritic cell progenitors (CDPs). CDPs further differentiate into classical DCs (cDCs) and plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs). Here, we studied the impact of histone acetylation on DC development in C57BL/6 mice by interfering with histone acetylation and deacetylation, employing histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors. We observed that commitment of MPPs into CDPs was attenuated by HDAC inhibition and that pDC development was specifically blocked. Gene expression profiling revealed that HDAC inhibition prevents establishment of a DC-specific gene expression repertoire. Importantly, protein levels of the core DC transcription factor PU.1 were reduced in HDAC inhibitor-treated cells and consequently PU.1 recruitment at PU.1 target genes Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (Flt3), interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8), and PU.1 itself was impaired. Thus, our results demonstrate that attenuation of PU.1 expression by HDAC inhibition causes reduced expression of key DC regulators, which results in attenuation of DC development. We propose that chromatin modifiers, such as HDACs, are required for establishing a DC gene network, where Flt3/STAT3 signaling drives PU.1 and IRF8 expression and DC development. Taken together, our study identifies HDACs as critical regulators of DC lineage commitment and development.
AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: We investigated skin microcirculation and its association with HbA1c and the incidence of ischaemic foot ulcer in patients with type 1 diabetes formerly randomised (1982-1984) to intensified conventional treatment (ICT) or standard treatment (ST) with insulin for a mean of 7.5 years.METHODS: We re-determined the skin microcirculation of 72 patients (ICT 35 vs ST 37) from the original Stockholm Diabetes Intervention Study with iontophoresis topically applied with the following vasoactive stimuli: acetylcholine (ACh) (endothelial-dependent vasodilatation), sodium nitroprusside (SNP) (endothelial-independent vasodilatation), and capsaicin (C-nociceptive-dependent vasodilatation). HbA1c levels (mean of 14 values/patient) were prospectively collected between 1990 and 1995 and tested for association with skin microcirculation. The patients were followed until first hospitalisation for an ischaemic foot ulcer or until 2011.RESULTS: During the median 28 years of follow-up, three patients developed ischaemic foot ulcers in the ICT group compared with ten in the ST group (logrank, p = 0.035). At the time of iontophoresis, HbA1c was lower in the ICT group (median 57 mmol/mol [minimum-maximum 40-79 mmol/mol]) compared with the ST group (68 mmol/mol [41-96 mmol/mol], p < 0.01) (DCCT: ICT 7.4% [5.8-9.4%] vs ST 8.4% [5.9-10.9%]). Stimulated blood flow was higher in the ICT vs ST group with significantly increased perfusion units (PU) for: ACh (8.1 PU [4.6-24.7 PU] vs 5.3 PU [1.7-21.4 PU], p < 0.01); SNP (8.1 PU [2.2-20.1 PU] vs 5.6 PU [2.3-19.2 PU], p = 0.03); and capsaicin (5.0 PU [1.7-22.9 PU] vs 3.4 PU [1.5-8.4 PU], p < 0.01). HbA1c was associated with vasodilatation induced by ACh (b = -0.02, p < 0.01) and capsaicin (b = -0.02, p = 0.03). HbA1c was independently associated with ACh (b = -1.48, p < 0.01) and capsaicin-induced vasodilatation (b = -1.45, p < 0.01).CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Improved glycaemic control in patients with type 1 diabetes is associated with an improvement in skin microcirculation and with a lower incidence of ischaemic foot ulcers.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01957930.
Th9 cells have been reported to contribute to immune responses; however, the role of Th9 cells in Echinococcus granulosus infection is unknown. This study is to determine whether Th9 cells and IL-9 are involved in human Echinococcus granulosus infection. Compared with healthy controls (HC group), the mRNA levels of PU.1, IL-9, and GATA-3 were significantly increased in patients before therapy (CE group), as revealed by qRT-PCR. Flow cytometry analysis showed that the percentages of Th9 and Th2 cells in CE group were significantly higher. The levels of IL-9, IL-4, IL-10, and TGF- β in CE group were also significantly increased, as detected by CBA assay. The percentages of Th9 and Th2 cells in CE group were positively correlated. After treatments of surgery in combination with albendazole, the PU.1 and GATA-3 mRNA levels were significantly decreased in patients after therapy (PCE group) compared with CE group. The numbers of Th9 and Th2 cells and levels of IL-9, IL-4, IL-10, and TGF- β were also significantly decreased in PCE group. In conclusion, the ratios of Th9 cells and IL-9 levels were significantly decreased after treatment, suggesting that Th9/IL-9 may be involved in immune response induced by Echinococcus granulosus infection.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) is well established as differentiation therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) in which the PML-RARα (promyelocytic leukemia-retinoic acid receptor α) fusion protein causes blockade of the retinoic acid (RA) pathway; however, in types of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) other than APL, the mechanism of RA pathway inactivation is not fully understood. This study revealed the potential mechanism of high ATRA sensitivity of mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL)-AF9-positive AML compared with MLL-AF4/5q31-positive AML. Treatment with ATRA induced significant myeloid differentiation accompanied by upregulation of RARα, C/EBPα, C/EBPɛ and PU.1 in MLL-AF9-positive but not in MLL-AF4/5q31-positive cells. Combining ATRA with cytarabine had a synergistic antileukemic effect in MLL-AF9-positive cells in vitro. The level of dimethyl histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4me2) in the RARα gene-promoter region, PU.1 upstream regulatory region (URE) and RUNX1+24/+25 intronic enhancer was higher in MLL-AF9-positive cells than in MLL-AF4-positive cells, and inhibiting lysine-specific demethylase 1, which acts as a histone demethylase inhibitor, reactivated ATRA sensitivity in MLL-AF4-positive cells. These findings suggest that the level of H3K4me2 in the RARα gene-promoter region, PU.1 URE and RUNX1 intronic enhancer is determined by the MLL-fusion partner. Our findings provide insight into the mechanisms of ATRA sensitivity in AML and novel treatment strategies for ATRA-resistant AML.
C/EBPα is required for the formation of granulocyte-monocyte progenitors; however, its role in subsequent myeloid lineage specification remains uncertain. Transduction of murine marrow with either of two Cebpa shRNAs markedly increases monocyte and reduces granulocyte colonies in methylcellulose or the monocyte to neutrophil ratio in liquid culture. Similar findings were found after marrow shRNA transduction and transplantation and with CEBPA knockdown in human marrow CD34+ cells. These results apparently reflect altered myeloid lineage specification, as similar knockdown allowed nearly complete 32Dcl3 granulocytic maturation. Cebpa knockdown also generated lineage-negative blasts with increased colony replating capacity but unchanged cell cycle parameters, likely reflecting complete differentiation block. The shRNA having the greatest effect on lineage skewing reduced Cebpa 3-fold in differentiating cells but 6-fold in accumulating blasts. Indicating that Cebpa is the relevant shRNA target, shRNA-resistant C/EBPα-ER rescued marrow myelopoiesis. Cebpa knockdown in murine marrow cells also increased in vitro erythropoiesis, perhaps reflecting 1.6-fold reduction in PU.1 leading to GATA-1 derepression. Global gene expression analysis of lineage-negative blasts that accumulate after Cebpa knockdown demonstrated reduction in Cebpe and Gfi1, known transcriptional regulators of granulopoiesis, and also reduced Ets1 and Klf5. Populations enriched for immature granulocyte or monocyte progenitor/precursors were isolated by sorting Lin-Sca-1-c-Kit+ cells into GCSFR+MCSFR- or GCSFR-MCSFR+ subsets. Cebpa, Cebpe, Gfi1, Ets1, and Klf5 RNAs were increased in the c-Kit+GCSFR+ and Klf4 and Irf8 in the c-Kit+MCSFR+ populations, with PU.1 levels similar in both. In summary, higher levels of C/EBPα are required for granulocyte and lower levels for monocyte lineage specification, and this myeloid bifurcation may be facilitated by increased Cebpa gene expression in granulocyte compared with monocyte progenitors.
Monocyte development is a tightly regulated and multi-staged process, occurring through several defined progenitor cell intermediates. The key transcription factors, including PU.1, IRF8 and KLF4, growth factors, such as M-CSF and IL-34 and cytokines that drive monocyte development from hematopoietic progenitor cells are well defined. However, the molecular controls that direct differentiation into the Ly6C(hi) inflammatory and Ly6C(lo) monocyte subsets are yet to be completely elucidated. This review will provide a summary of the transcriptional regulation of monocyte development. We will also discuss how these molecular controls are also critical for microglial development despite their distinct haematopoetic origins. Furthermore, we will examine recent breakthroughs in defining mechanisms that promote differentiation of specific monocyte subpopulations.
Excitotoxicity underlies neuronal death in many neuropathological disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis. In murine models of these diseases, disruption of CX3CR1 signaling has thus far generated data either in favor or against a neuroprotective role of this crucial regulator of microglia and monocyte functions. In this study, we investigated the recruitment of circulating PU.1-expressing cells following sterile excitotoxicity and delineated the CX3CR1-dependent neuroprotective functions of circulating monocytes versus that of microglia in this context. WT, Cx3cr1-deficient and chimeric mice were subjected to a sterile excitotoxic insult via an intrastriatal injection of kainic acid (KA), a conformational analog of glutamate. Following KA administration, circulating monocytes physiologically engrafted the brain and selectively accumulated in the vicinity of excitotoxic lesions where they gave rise to activated macrophages depicting strong Iba1 and CD68 immunoreactivity 7 days post-injury. Monocyte-derived macrophages completely vanished upon recovery and did thus not permanently seed the brain. Furthermore, Cx3cr1 deletion significantly exacerbated neuronal death, behavioral deficits and activation of microglia cells following sterile excitotoxicity. Cx3cr1 disruption also markedly altered the blood levels of patrolling monocytes 24 h after KA administration. The specific elimination of patrolling monocytes using Nr4a1(-/-) chimeric mice conditioned with chemotherapy provided direct evidence that these circulating monocytes are essential for neuroprotection. Taken together, these data support a beneficial role of CX3CR1 signaling during excitotoxicity and highlight a novel and pivotal role of patrolling monocytes in neuroprotection. These findings open new research and therapeutic avenues for neuropathological disorders implicating excitotoxicity.
Myeloid-specific CD18 associates with CD11 and plays a critical role in leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium. In this study, we observed that CD18 expression was decreased by IL-32α in THP-1 and K562 cells upon PMA stimulation, and investigated the mechanism by which IL-32α down-regulated CD18 expression. We found that IL-32α suppressed the expression of PU.1, a major transcription factor for CD18. Because we previously demonstrated that IL-32α mediated STAT3 S727 phosphorylation by PKCε, and STAT3 regulates PU.1 expression, we performed time-course analyses of STAT3 S727 phosphorylation and found that IL-32α induces prolonged phosphorylation of STAT3 S727 until 72h after PMA stimulation. The expression pattern of C/EBPα, another transcriptional regulator of PU.1, was not affected by IL-32α. In addition, we showed that STAT3 binding to the PU.1 promoter was suppressed by IL-32α. Thus, we examined the relatedness among these factors and found that IL-32α-mediated STAT3 S727 phosphorylation induced C/EBPα association. When STAT3 was mutated at S727 to proline (S727P), the mutant STAT3 S727P did not interact with C/EBPα. We further demonstrated that only the intact STAT3 interacted with the basic leucine zipper region of C/EBPα. The PU.1 promoter was activated by co-expression of STAT3 and IL-32α upon PMA stimulation. However, the promoter activity was inhibited with STAT3 and C/EBPα co-expression. Therefore, our data suggest that IL-32α-mediated STAT3 S727 phosphorylation induced C/EBPα association, which inhibited PU.1 expression, and then resulted in the down-regulation of CD18 expression.
Gene activation requires cooperative assembly of multiprotein transcription factor-coregulator complexes. Disruption to cooperative assemblage could underlie repression of tumor suppressor genes in leukemia cells. Mechanisms of cooperation and its disruption were therefore examined for PU.1 and RUNX1, transcription factors that cooperate to activate hematopoietic differentiation genes. PU.1 is highly expressed in leukemia cells, whereas RUNX1 is frequently inactivated by mutation or translocation. Thus, coregulator interactions of Pu.1 were examined by immunoprecipitation coupled with tandem mass spectrometry/Western blot in wild-type and Runx1-deficient hematopoietic cells. In wild-type cells, the NuAT and Baf families of coactivators coimmunoprecipitated with Pu.1. Runx1 deficiency produced a striking switch to Pu.1 interaction with the Dnmt1, Sin3A, Nurd, CoRest, and B-Wich corepressor families. Corepressors of the Polycomb family, which are frequently inactivated by mutation or deletion in myeloid leukemia, did not interact with Pu.1. The most significant gene ontology association of Runx1-Pu.1 co-bound genes was with macrophages, therefore, functional consequences of altered corepressor/coactivator exchange were examined at Mcsfr, a key macrophage differentiation gene. In chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses, high level Pu.1 binding to the Mcsfr promoter was not decreased by Runx1 deficiency. However, the Pu.1-driven shift from histone repression to activation marks at this locus, and terminal macrophage differentiation, were substantially diminished. DNMT1 inhibition, but not Polycomb inhibition, in RUNX1-translocated leukemia cells induced terminal differentiation. Thus, RUNX1 and PU.1 cooperate to exchange corepressors for coactivators, and the specific corepressors recruited to PU.1 as a consequence of RUNX1 deficiency could be rational targets for leukemia differentiation therapy.
The role of different lineage specific transcription factors in directing hematopoietic cell fate towards myeloid lineage is well established but the status of epigenetic modifications has not been defined during this important developmental process. We used non proliferating, PU.1 inducible myeloid progenitor cells and differentiating bone marrow derived macrophages to study the PU.1 dependent KLF4 transcriptional regulation and its promoter demethylation during monocyte/macrophage differentiation. Expression of KLF4 was regulated by active demethylation of its promoter and PU.1 specifically bound to KLF4 promoter oligo harboring the PU.1 consensus sequence. Methylation specific quantitative PCR and Bisulfite sequencing indicated demethylation of CpG residues most proximal to the transcription start site of KLF4 promoter. Cloned KLF4 promoter in pGL3 Luciferase and CpG free pcpgf-bas vectors showed accentuated reporter activity when co-transfected with the PU.1 expression vector. In vitro methylation of both KLF4 promoter oligo and cloned KLF4 promoter vectors showed attenuated in vitro DNA binding activity and Luciferase/mouse Alkaline phosphotase reporter activity indicating the negative influence of KLF4 promoter methylation on PU.1 binding. The Cytosine deaminase, Activation Induced Cytidine Deaminase (AICDA) was found to be critical for KLF4 promoter demethylation. More importantly, knock down of AICDA resulted in blockade of KLF4 promoter demethylation, decreased F4/80 expression and other phenotypic characters of macrophage differentiation. Our data proves that AICDA mediated active demethylation of the KLF4 promoter is necessary for transcriptional regulation of KLF4 by PU.1 during monocyte/macrophage differentiation.
The high-affinity IgE receptor, FcεRI, which is composed of α-, β-, and γ-chains, plays an important role in IgE-mediated allergic responses. In the current study, involvement of the transcription factors, PU.1, GATA1, and GATA2, in the expression of FcεRI on human mast cells was investigated. Transfection of small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) against PU.1, GATA1, and GATA2 into the human mast cell line, LAD2, caused significant downregulation of cell surface expression of FcεRI. Quantification of the mRNA levels revealed that PU.1, GATA1, and GATA2 siRNAs suppressed the α transcript, whereas the amount of β mRNA was reduced in only GATA2 siRNA transfectants. In contrast, γ mRNA levels were not affected by any of the knockdowns. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that significant amounts of PU.1, GATA1, and GATA2 bind to the promoter region of FCER1A (encoding FcεRIα) and that GATA2 binds to the promoter of MS4A2 (encoding FcεRIβ). Luciferase assay and EMSA showed that GATA2 transactivates the MS4A2 promoter via direct binding. These knockdowns of transcription factors also suppressed the IgE-mediated degranulation activity of LAD2. Similarly, all three knockdowns suppressed FcεRI expression in primary mast cells, especially PU.1 siRNA and GATA2 siRNA, which target FcεRIα and FcεRIβ, respectively. From these results, we conclude that PU.1 and GATA1 are involved in FcεRIα transcription through recruitment to its promoter, whereas GATA2 positively regulates FcεRIβ transcription. Suppression of these transcription factors leads to downregulation of FcεRI expression and IgE-mediated degranulation activity. Our findings will contribute to the development of new therapeutic approaches for FcεRI-mediated allergic diseases.
Some Kampo medicines that are herbal and traditional in Japan have had beneficial effects when given to patients with anemia. However, molecular mechanisms underlying their effects are unclear. To address this question, four Kampo medicines used to treat anemia-ninjin'yoeito (NYT), shimotsuto (SMT), juzentaihoto (JTT), and daibofuto (DBT)-were tested separately using in vitro cultures of mouse bone marrow mononuclear cells. Among them, NYT was most effective in stimulating cell proliferation and up-regulating Myc expression. Flow cytometry analysis indicated that, among hematopoietic components of those cultures, myeloid cells expressing CD45/Mac-1/Gr-1/F4/80 increased in number, but Ter119/CD71 erythroid cells did not. Accordingly, real-time PCR analysis showed up-regulation of the myeloid gene Pu.1, whereas the erythroid genes Gata1 and Klf1 were down-regulated. Overall, these findings provide molecular evidence that NYT accelerates myelopoiesis but not erythropoiesis in vitro.
Human pluripotent stem cells offer a powerful system to study human biology and disease. Here, we report a system to both express transgenes specifically in ES cell derived hematopoietic cells and knockdown gene expression stably throughout the differentiation of ES cells. We characterize a CD43 promoter construct that when inserted into the AAVS1 "safe harbor" locus utilizing a zinc finger nuclease specifically drives GFP expression in hematopoietic cells derived from a transgenic ES cell line and faithfully recapitulates endogenous CD43 expression. In addition, using the same gene targeting strategy we demonstrate that constitutive expression of short hairpin RNAs within a microRNA backbone can suppress expression of PU.1, an important regulator of myeloid cell development. We show that PU.1 knockdown cell lines display an inhibition in myeloid cell formation and skewing towards erythroid development. Overall, we have generated a powerful system to track hematopoietic development from pluripotent stem cells and study gene function through hematopoietic specific gene expression and constitutive gene knockdown.
Microglia colonise the brain parenchyma at early stages of development and accumulate in specific regions where they participate in cell death, angiogenesis, neurogenesis and synapse elimination. A recurring feature of embryonic microglial is their association with developing axon tracts, which, together with in vitro data, supports the idea of a physiological role for microglia in neurite development. Yet the demonstration of this role of microglia is lacking. Here, we have studied the consequences of microglial dysfunction on the formation of the corpus callosum, the largest commissure of the mammalian brain, which shows consistent microglial accumulation during development. We studied two models of microglial dysfunction: the loss-of-function of DAP12, a key microglial-specific signalling molecule, and a model of maternal inflammation by peritoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide at embryonic day (E)15.5. We also took advantage of the Pu.1(-/-) mouse line, which is devoid of microglia. We performed transcriptional profiling of maternally inflamed and Dap12-mutant microglia at E17.5. The two treatments principally down-regulated genes involved in nervous system development and function, particularly in neurite formation. We then analysed the developmental consequences of these microglial dysfunctions on the formation of the corpus callosum. We show that all three models of altered microglial activity resulted in the defasciculation of dorsal callosal axons. Our study demonstrates that microglia display a neurite-development-promoting function and are genuine actors of corpus callosum development. It further shows that microglial activation impinges on this function, thereby revealing that prenatal inflammation impairs neuronal development through a loss of trophic support.
FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) is expressed in human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) but its role during embryogenesis is unclear. In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), internal tandem duplication (ITD) of FLT3 at the juxtamembrane (JMD) and tyrosine kinase (TKD) domains (FLT3-ITD(+)) occurs in 30% of patients and is associated with inferior clinical prognosis. TKD mutations (FLT3-TKD(+)) occur in 5% of cases. We made use of zebrafish to examine the role of flt3 in developmental hematopoiesis and model human FLT3-ITD(+) and FLT3-TKD(+) AML. Zebrafish flt3 JMD and TKD were remarkably similar to their mammalian orthologs. Morpholino knockdown significantly reduced the expression of l-plastin (pan-leukocyte), csf1r, and mpeg1 (macrophage) as well as that of c-myb (definitive HSPCs), lck, and rag1 (T-lymphocyte). Expressing human FLT3-ITD in zebrafish embryos resulted in expansion and clustering of myeloid cells (pu.1(+), mpo(+), and cebpα(+)) which were ameliorated by AC220 and associated with stat5, erk1/2, and akt phosphorylation. Human FLT3-TKD (D835Y) induced significant, albeit modest, myeloid expansion resistant to AC220. This study provides novel insight into the role of flt3 during hematopoiesis and establishes a zebrafish model of FLT3-ITD(+) and FLT3-TKD(+) AML that may facilitate high-throughput screening of novel and personalized agents.
In computational methods, position weight matrices (PWMs) are commonly applied for transcription factor binding site (TFBS) prediction. Although these matrices are more accurate than simple consensus sequences to predict actual binding sites, they usually produce a large number of false positive (FP) predictions and so are impoverished sources of information. Several studies have employed additional sources of information such as sequence conservation or the vicinity to transcription start sites to distinguish true binding regions from random ones. Recently, the spatial distribution of modified nucleosomes has been shown to be associated with different promoter architectures. These aligned patterns can facilitate DNA accessibility for transcription factors. We hypothesize that using data from these aligned and periodic patterns can improve the performance of binding region prediction. In this study, we propose two effective features, "modified nucleosomes neighboring" and "modified nucleosomes occupancy", to decrease FP in binding site discovery. Based on these features, we designed a logistic regression classifier which estimates the probability of a region as a TFBS. Our model learned each feature based on Sp1 binding sites on Chromosome 1 and was tested on the other chromosomes in human CD4+T cells. In this work, we investigated 21 histone modifications and found that only 8 out of 21 marks are strongly correlated with transcription factor binding regions. To prove that these features are not specific to Sp1, we combined the logistic regression classifier with the PWM, and created a new model to search TFBSs on the genome. We tested the model using transcription factors MAZ, PU.1 and ELF1 and compared the results to those using only the PWM. The results show that our model can predict Transcription factor binding regions more successfully. The relative simplicity of the model and capability of integrating other features make it a superior method for TFBS prediction.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by an extended polyglutamine repeat in the N terminus of the Huntingtin protein (HTT). Reactive microglia and elevated cytokine levels are observed in the brains of HD patients, but the extent to which neuroinflammation results from extrinsic or cell-autonomous mechanisms in microglia is unknown. Using genome-wide approaches, we found that expression of mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) in microglia promoted cell-autonomous pro-inflammatory transcriptional activation by increasing the expression and transcriptional activities of the myeloid lineage-determining factors PU.1 and C/EBPs. We observed elevated levels of PU.1 and its target genes in the brains of mouse models and individuals with HD. Moreover, mHTT-expressing microglia exhibited an increased capacity to induce neuronal death ex vivo and in vivo in the presence of sterile inflammation. These findings suggest a cell-autonomous basis for enhanced microglia reactivity that may influence non-cell-autonomous HD pathogenesis.
Previous studies have shown that ZBP-89 (Zfp148) plays a critical role in erythroid lineage development, with its loss at the embryonic stage causing lethal anemia and thrombocytopenia. Its role in adult hematopoiesis has not been described. We now show that conditional deletion of ZBP-89 in adult mouse hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPC) causes anemia and thrombocytopenia that are transient in the steady state, but readily uncovered following chemically induced erythro/megakaryopoietic stress. Unexpectedly, stress induced by bone marrow transplantation of ZBP89(-/-) HSPC also resulted in a myeloid-to-B lymphoid lineage switch in bone marrow recipients. The erythroid and myeloid/B lymphoid lineage anomalies in ZBP89(-/-) HSPC are reproduced in vitro in the ZBP-89-silenced multipotent hematopoietic cell line FDCP-Mix A4, and are associated with the upregulation of PU.1 and downregulation of SCL/Tal1 and GATA-1 in ZBP89-deficient cells. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays show that ZBP-89 is a direct repressor of PU.1 and activator of SCL/Tal1 and GATA-1. These data identify an important role for ZBP-89 in regulating stress hematopoiesis in adult mouse bone marrow.
Langerhans cells (LCs) are the unique antigen-presenting cell of the epidermis. LCs have long been depicted in textbooks as the archetypical dendritic cell that alerts the immune system upon pathogen induced skin barrier breakage, however recent findings argue instead for a more tolerogenic function. While the LCs that populate the epidermis in steady-state arise from progenitors that seed the skin during embryogenesis, it is now apparent that a second pathway generating LCs from a bone marrow derived progenitor is active in inflammatory settings. This review emphasizes the determinants underpinning the establishment of the LC network in steady-state and under inflammatory conditions, as well as the transcriptional machinery governing their differentiation. The dual origin of LCs raises important questions about the functional differences between these subsets in balancing the epidermal immune response between immunity and tolerance.
In addition to their cytoprotective role in stressful conditions, heat shock proteins (HSPs) are involved in specific differentiation pathways, for example, we have identified a role for HSP90 in macrophage differentiation of human peripheral blood monocytes that are exposed to macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF). Here, we show that deletion of the main transcription factor involved in heat shock gene regulation, heat shock factor 1 (HSF1), affects M-CSF-driven differentiation of mouse bone marrow cells. HSF1 transiently accumulates in the nucleus of human monocytes undergoing macrophage differentiation, including M-CSF-treated peripheral blood monocytes and phorbol ester-treated THP1 cells. We demonstrate that HSF1 has a dual effect on SPI1/PU.1, a transcription factor essential for macrophage differentiation and whose deregulation can lead to the development of leukemias and lymphomas. Firstly, HSF1 regulates SPI1/PU.1 gene expression through its binding to a heat shock element within the intron 2 of this gene. Furthermore, downregulation or inhibition of HSF1 impaired both SPI1/PU.1-targeted gene transcription and macrophage differentiation. Secondly, HSF1 induces the expression of HSP70 that interacts with SPI1/PU.1 to protect the transcription factor from proteasomal degradation. Taken together, HSF1 appears as a fine-tuning regulator of SPI1/PU.1 expression at the transcriptional and post-translational levels during macrophage differentiation of monocytes.
Foam cell formation from macrophage is a major cause of atherosclerosis. An efficient macrophage-specific promoter is required for the targeting to macrophages. In this study, we develop a macrophage-specific synthetic promoter for the therapeutic application of adiponectin (APN), an antiatherogenic gene. Synthetic promoter-146 (SP146), registered on the NCBI website (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/DQ107383), was tested for promoter activities in two non-macrophage cell lines (293 T, HeLa) and a macrophage cell line (RAW264.7, bone marrow-derived macrophages). To enforce macrophage specificity, partial elements of p47(phox) including the PU.1 site with various lengths (-C1, -C2 and -C3) were inserted next to the synthetic promoters. SP146-C1 showed the highest specificity and efficacy in RAW264.7 cells and was selected for development of an APN-carrying macrophage-specific promoter. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)- or APN-expressing lentivirus under SP146-C1 (Lenti-SP-GFP or Lenti-SP-APN, respectively) showed the highest expression efficacy in RAW264.7 cells compared with the non-macrophage cell lines. APN overexpression in RAW264.7 cells successfully inhibited intracellular lipid accumulation, and atherosclerotic lesions and lipid accumulation were significantly reduced by Lenti-SP-APN in ApoE-/- atherosclerosis mice. In conclusion, the synthetic promoter SP146-C1, combined with a p47(phox) promoter element, was successfully developed to target macrophage, and macrophage-specific introduction of APN under SP146-C1 was shown to ameliorate the atherosclerotic pathology.
Erratum in    PLoS One. 2014;9(3):e92635.
The cytokine IL-9, derived primarily from T-helper 9 (Th9) lymphocytes, promotes expansion of the Th2 subset and is implicated in the mechanisms of allergic asthma. We hypothesize that IL-9 also has a role in human allergic contact dermatitis (ACD). To investigate this hypothesis, skin biopsy specimens of positive patch-test sites from non-atopic patients were assayed using quantitative PCR and immunohistochemistry. The cytokines IFN-γ, IL-4, IL-17A, IL-9, and PU.1, a Th9 associated transcription factor, were elevated when compared with paired normal skin. Immunohistochemistry on ACD skin biopsies identified PU.1+ CD3+ and PU.1+ CD4+ cells, consistent with Th9 lymphocytes, in the inflammatory infiltrate. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from nickel-allergic patients, but not nonallergic controls, show significant IL-9 production in response to nickel. Blocking studies with mAbs to HLA-DR (but not HLA-A, -B, -C) or chloroquine significantly reduced this nickel-specific IL-9 production. In addition, blockade of IL-9 or IL-4 enhanced allergen-specific IFN-γ production. A contact hypersensitivity model using IL-9(-/-) mice shows enhanced Th1 lymphocyte immune responses, when compared with wild-type mice, consistent with our human in vitro data. This study demonstrates that IL-9, through its direct effects on Th1 and ability to promote IL-4 secretion, has a regulatory role for Th1 lymphocytes in ACD.
BACKGROUND: Vitamin D suppresses inflammation and vitamin D deficiency is linked to the severity of asthma symptoms. T-helper type 9 (TH9) cells are important in the pathogenesis, yet the effects of vitamin D on this subset of inflammatory T-helper cells from patients with chronic asthma is unknown.OBJECTIVE: To determine the effects of vitamin D and dexamethasone on TH9 memory cells from adults with chronic persistent asthma and on a recall response to dust mite allergen.METHODS: T-helper memory cells were cultured with cytokines that drive TH9 polarization with vitamin D and/or dexamethasone. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with radioallergosorbent test results for house dust mite were stimulated with allergen in the presence or absence of vitamin D. Intracellular cytokines, transcription factors, and identification of cell surface phenotypic markers were determined by flow cytometry.RESULTS: Vitamin D decreased interleukin (IL)-9, IL-5, and IL-8 but increased IL-13(+) cells in TH9 cultures. Transcription factors PU.1 and interferon regulatory factor 4 were downregulated by vitamin D but not GATA3 and c-MAF. When PBMCs from patients with positive radioallergosorbent test results were stimulated with dust mite allergen, vitamin D decreased IL-9, IL-5, and IL-13 in T-helper cells (CD4(+)). TH9 cells present in a recall response were classically TH2 (CD294(+)), and polarization by transforming growth factor-β and IL-4 altered that phenotype.CONCLUSION: Vitamin D decreased inflammatory cytokine profiles in TH9 memory cells and CD4(+) cells stimulated with dust mite allergen. Vitamin D is additive with dexamethasone in decreasing inflammatory cytokine production from T-cell subsets implicated in asthma.
The transcription factor PU.1 plays a key role in the development of immune system. Recent evidence demonstrated bidirectional transcription and a sense/antisense transcriptional regulatory manner in PU.1 locus. However, the effect of PU.1 mRNA and its antisense long non-coding RNA (AS lncRNA) on adaptive immunity in vivo is still not clear. In this study, we first confirmed the expression of PU.1 AS lncRNA by strand-specific RT-PCR in zebrafish. Additionally, we found that GFP was detected in zebrafish kidney using tissue smears after zebrafish was intraperitoneally injected with pLentiHI-PU.1 shRNA or pLentiHI-PU.1 AS shRNA for 2 days. Moreover, on day 0, 2 and 4, the levels of PU.1 and immune-related genes including TCRAC, Rag2, AID, IgLC-1, mIg, and sIg mRNAs were detected using real-time qPCR. The results showed that the levels of PU.1 and above 6 immune-related gene mRNAs were significantly downregulated on day 2 (P<0.05) and day 4 (P<0.01) by the treatment with the pLentiHI-PU.1 shRNA, whereas these genes were markedly upregulated by the treatment with the pLentiHI-PU.1 AS shRNA. Based on our results, we suggested that the effects of PU.1 transcripts including mRNA and AS lncRNA on immune-related gene expression in zebrafish were opposite. To our knowledge, this was the first report that a novel functional AS lncRNA in adaptive immunity was transcribed from the zebrafish PU.1 locus. Our findings provided novel insight into further exploration on modulating adaptive immunity by regulating PU.1 mRNA and AS lncRNA.
BACKGROUND: CD4+ T helper (Th) cells play critical roles in the development and progression of atherosclerosis and the onset of acute coronary syndromes (ACS, including acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and unstable angina pectoris (UAP)). In addition to Th1, Th2, and Th17 cells, Th22 and Th9 subsets have been identified in humans. In the present study, we investigated whether Th22 cells and Th9 cells are involved in the onset of ACS.METHODS: The frequencies of Th22 and Th9 cells were detected using a flow cytometric analysis and their related cytokine and transcription factor were measured in the AMI, UAP, stable angina pectoris (SAP), and control groups.RESULTS: The results revealed a significant increase in the peripheral Th22 number, AHR expression, and IL-22 levels in patients with ACS compared with those in the SAP and control groups. Although there was no difference in the peripheral Th9 number among the four groups, the PU.1 expression and IL-9 levels were significantly increased in patients with ACS compared with the SAP and control groups.CONCLUSIONS: Circulating Th22 and Th9 type responses may play a potential role in the onset of ACS symptom.
Hematopoiesis is a dynamic process by which peripheral blood lineages are developed. It is a process tightly regulated by many intrinsic and extrinsic factors, including transcriptional factors and signaling molecules. However, the epigenetic regulation of hematopoiesis, for example, regulation via microRNAs (miRNAs), remains incompletely understood. Here we show that miR-144 regulates hematopoiesis and vascular development in zebrafish. Overexpression of miR-144 inhibited primitive hematopoiesis as demonstrated by a reduced number of circulating blood cells, reduced o-dianisidine staining of hemoglobin, and reduced expression of hbαe1, hbβe1, gata1 and pu.1. Overexpression of miR-144 also inhibited definitive hematopoiesis as shown by reduced expression of runx1 and c-myb. Mechanistically, miR-144 regulates hematopoiesis by repressing expression of meis1 involved in hematopoiesis. Both real-time RT-PCR and Western blot analyses showed that overexpression of miR-144 repressed expression of meis1. Bioinformatic analysis predicts a target binding sequence for miR-144 at the 3'-UTR of meis1. Deletion of the miR-144 target sequence eliminated the repression of meis1 expression mediated by miR-144. The miR-144-mediated abnormal phenotypes were partially rescued by co-injection of meis1 mRNA and could be almost completely rescued by injection of both meis1 and gata1 mRNA. Finally, because meis1 is involved in vascular development, we tested the effect of miR-144 on vascular development. Overexpression of miR-144 resulted in abnormal vascular development of intersegmental vessels in transgenic zebrafish with Flk1p-EGFP, and the defect was rescued by co-injection of meis1 mRNA. These findings establish miR-144 as a novel miRNA that regulates hematopoiesis and vascular development by repressing expression of meis1.
Mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) fusion proteins directly activate the expression of key downstream genes such as MEIS1, HOXA9 to drive an aggressive form of human leukemia. However, it is still poorly understood what additional transcriptional regulators, independent of the MLL fusion pathway, contribute to the development of MLL leukemia. Here we show that the transcription factor PU.1 is essential for MLL leukemia and is required for the growth of MLL leukemic cells via the promotion of cell-cycle progression and inhibition of apoptosis. Importantly, PU.1 expression is not under the control of MLL fusion proteins. We further identified a PU.1-governed 15-gene signature, which contains key regulators in the MEIS-HOX program (MEIS1, PBX3, FLT3, and c-KIT). PU.1 directly binds to the genomic loci of its target genes in vivo, and is required to maintain active expression of those genes in both normal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and in MLL leukemia. Finally, the clinical significance of the identified PU.1 signature was indicated by its ability to predict survival in acute myelogenous leukemia patients. Together, our findings demonstrate that PU.1 contributes to the development of MLL leukemia, partially via crosstalk with the MEIS/HOX pathway.
Erratum in    Pediatr Res. 2015 Jan;77(1-1):111.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV)-mediated liver diseases are one of the major health issues in the United States and worldwide. HCV infection has been reported to modulate microRNAs (miRNAs) that control various cell surface receptors and gene-regulatory complexes involved in hepatic inflammation and liver diseases. We report here that specific downregulation of miRNA-107 and miRNA-449a following HCV infection in patients with HCV-mediated liver diseases modulates expression of CCL2, an inflammatory chemokine upregulated in patients with chronic liver diseases, by targeting components of the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R) complex. Computational analysis for DNA-bound transcription factors in the CCL2 promoter identified adjacent binding sites for CCAAT/CEBPα, spleen focus-forming virus, proviral integration oncogene (SPI1/PU.1), and STAT3. We demonstrate that CEBPα, PU.1, and STAT3 interacted with each other physically to cooperatively bind to the promoter and activate CCL2 expression. Analysis of IL-6R and JAK1 expression in HCV patients by quantitative PCR showed significant upregulation when there was impaired miRNA-107 and miRNA-449a expression, along with upregulation of PU.1 and STAT3, but not CEBPα. miRNA-449a and miRNA-107 target expression of IL-6R and JAK1, respectively, in vitro and also inhibit IL-6 signaling and impair STAT3 activation in human hepatocytes. Taken together, our results demonstrate a novel gene-regulatory mechanism in which HCV-induced changes in miRNAs (miRNA-449a and miRNA-107) regulate CCL2 expression by activation of the IL-6-mediated signaling cascade, which we propose will result in HCV-mediated induction of inflammatory responses and fibrosis.IMPORTANCE: Hepatitis C virus (HCV)-induced hepatitis is a major health concern worldwide. HCV infection results in modulation of noncoding microRNAs affecting major cellular pathways, including inflammatory responses. In this study, we have identified a microRNA-regulated pathway for the chemokine CCL2 in HCV-induced hepatitis. Understanding microRNA-mediated transcriptional-regulatory pathways will result in development of noninvasive biomarkers for better disease prediction and development of effective therapeutics.
Rapamycin, a macrolide antibiotic, has potent immunosuppressive properties as an antirejection therapy in organ transplantation. Studies show that dendritic cells (DC) are important targets for rapamycin, which can inhibit DC maturation and DC-induced allogeneic T cell proliferation. In this study, we investigated the effects of rapamycin on the expressions of DC-SIGN and transcription factor PU.1 and the function of DC. Treatment with rapamycin significantly reduced the expression of DC-SIGN in a dose-dependent manner associated with suppression of PU.1 gene expression and the ability of DC to migrate and stimulate T cell proliferation. The expression of DC-SIGN was significantly suppressed using PU.1 siRNA. Intriguingly, rapamycin treatment largely decreased the expressions of PU.1 and DC-SIGN in THP-1 cells. In addition, treatment with rapamycin down-regulated the promoter activity of DC-SIGN. In conclusion, rapamycin inhibits DC-SIGN expression and suppresses the ability of DC to migrate and stimulate T cell proliferation through the PU.1 gene transcription pathway.
The effects of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and valproic acid (VPA), alone and in combination, on the human acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cell line NB4 were investigated in view of differentiation induction and growth inhibition. After 48 h of treatment, not only ATRA but also VPA induced differentiation in NB4 cells, and their combination further augmented the differentiation activity. Furthermore, the upregulation of transcription factors including CCAAT/enhancer-binding proteins (CEBPα, β, ε) and PU.1, which are known to be critical factors for normal myelopoiesis, granulocytic maturation and being repressed in APL, concurred with the differentiation induction. A significant cell growth inhibition was observed after the treatment with VPA, which was further strengthened by the addition of ATRA. Given the importance of C/EBPs and PU.1 in myeloid development, these results, thus, suggest that restoration of the normal function of the myeloid cell transcriptional machinery is a major molecular mechanism underlying the differentiation induction in NB4. Therefore, these results may provide novel insights into a possible combinational therapeutic approach for APL patients.
BACKGROUND: Allergic asthma is a chronic disease of the conducting airways characterized by T(H)2 inflammation and tissue remodeling after exposure to inhaled allergens. Although the T(H)2 profile is undisputed, the underlying molecular mechanisms leading to this abnormal T(H)2 profile remain largely unclear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNAs that are important regulators of gene expression in the immune system. However, the role of miRNAs, specifically miR-155, in the regulation of allergic airway inflammation is unexplored.OBJECTIVES: We sought to assess the contribution of miR-155 in a mouse model of allergic airway inflammation.METHODS: To investigate a role for miR-155 in the regulation of allergic inflammation in vivo, we used miR-155 knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice sensitized and exposed to ovalbumin.RESULTS: miR-155 deficiency resulted in diminished eosinophilic inflammation and mucus hypersecretion in the lungs of allergen-sensitized and allergen-challenged mice compared with WT control animals. This was supported by a reduction in T(H)2 cell numbers and airway T(H)2 cytokine levels and complete abrogation of allergen-induced airway eotaxin-2/CCL24 and periostin levels in miR-155 KO mice. Intranasal instillation of eotaxin-2/CCL24 before allergen challenge partially restored airway eosinophilia in miR-155 KO mice, and adoptive transfer of CD4(+) T cells resulted in a similar degree of airway eosinophilia in miR-155 KO and WT mice. Furthermore, the transcription factor PU.1, a negative regulator of T(H)2 cytokine production, was upregulated in the airways of allergen-challenged miR-155 KO mice compared with WT mice.CONCLUSIONS: Our data provides evidence that miR-155 contributes to the regulation of allergic airway inflammation by modulating T(H)2 responses through the transcription factor PU.1.
GATA1-PU.1 genetic switch is a paradigmatic genetic switch that governs the differentiation of progenitor cells into two different fates, erythroid and myeloid fates. In terms of dynamical model representation of these fates or lineages corresponds to stable attractor and choosing between the attractors. Small asymmetries and stochasticity intrinsically present in all genetic switches lead to the effect of delayed bifurcation which will change the differentiation result according to the timing of the process and affect the proportion of erythroid versus myeloid cells. We consider the differentiation bifurcation scenario in which there is a symmetry-breaking in the bifurcation diagrams as a result of asymmetry in external signaling. We show that the decision between two alternative cell fates in this structurally symmetric decision circuit can be biased depending on the speed at which the system is forced to go through the decision point. The parameter sweeping speed can also reduce the effect of asymmetry and produce symmetric choice between attractors, or convert the favorable attractor. This conversion may have important contributions to the immune system when the bias is in favor of the attractor which gives rise to non-immune cells.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by increased proliferation and reduced differentiation of myeloid lineage cells. AML is frequently associated with mutations or chromosomal rearrangements involving transcription factors. PU.1 (encoded by Sfpi1) is an E26 transformation-specific family transcription factor that is required for myeloid differentiation. Reduced PU.1 levels, caused by either mutation or repression, are associated with human AML and are sufficient to cause AML in mice. The objective of this study was to determine whether reduced PU.1 expression induces deregulation of the cell cycle in the myeloid lineage. Our results showed that immature myeloid cells expressing reduced PU.1 levels (Sfpi1(BN/BN) myeloid cells) proliferated indefinitely in cell culture and expanded in vivo. Transplantation of Sfpi1(BN/BN) cells induced AML in recipient mice. Cultured Sfpi1(BN/BN) cells expressed elevated messenger RNA transcript and protein levels of E2F1, an important regulator of cell cycle entry. Restoration of PU.1 expression in Sfpi1(BN/BN) myeloid cells blocked proliferation, induced differentiation, and reduced E2F1 expression. Taken together, these data show that PU.1 controls cell cycle exit in the myeloid lineage associated with downregulation of E2F1 expression.
Erratum in    J Infect Dis. 2015 Mar 1;211(5):851.
Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HPCs) can be maintained in vitro, but the vast majority of their progeny loses stemness during culture. In this study, we compared DNA-methylation (DNAm) profiles of freshly isolated and culture-expanded HPCs. Culture conditions of CD34(+) cells - either with or without mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) - had relatively little impact on DNAm, although proliferation is greatly increased by stromal support. However, all cultured HPCs - even those which remained CD34(+) - acquired significant DNA-hypermethylation. DNA-hypermethylation occurred particularly in up-stream promoter regions, shore-regions of CpG islands, binding sites for PU.1, HOXA5 and RUNX1, and it was reflected in differential gene expression and variant transcripts of DNMT3A. Low concentrations of DNAm inhibitors slightly increased the frequency of colony-forming unit initiating cells. Our results demonstrate that HPCs acquire DNA-hypermethylation at specific sites in the genome which is relevant for the rapid loss of stemness during in vitro manipulation.
AIM: To investigate the function of PU.1-silenced semi-mature dendritic cells (DCs) and the possibility of utilizing cell immunity in rat intestinal transplantation.METHODS: DCs were isolated from the bone marrow of F344 rats and cultured using the adherent method. The PU.1 gene was knocked down in DCs using small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) for 24 h, and the cells were then incubated with lipopolysaccharide for 48 h. The PU.1 siRNA that had the highest silencing efficiency was screened using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot for further study. The tolerance capacity was analyzed and compared between PU.1-silenced DCs (siRNA PU.1 group), negative control-silenced DCs (siRNA NC group) and immature DCs (control group) both in vitro and in vivo.RESULTS: Blocking expression of the PU.1 gene in vitro led to a reduction in DC maturation and an increased tolerance capability. PU.1-silenced DCs expressed moderate levels of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-II and low levels of co-stimulatory molecules, and produced more interleukin (IL)-10, but less IL-12. Compared with the negative control group, surface molecules cluster of differentiation 80 (CD80), CD86 and MHC-II in the siRNA PU.1 group were 27.0% ± 5.6%, 23.6% ± 4.8% and 36.8% ± 6.8%, respectively, and showed a significantly lower trend (P < 0.05). In vivo treatment of recipients with PU.1-silenced DCs injected before intestinal transplantation (siRNA PU.1 group), significantly prolonged allograft survival and resulted in better tissue histopathology compared with the siRNA NC group and control group. Mean survival time after transplantation was 14.3 ± 3.3 d in the siRNA PU.1 group (P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: PU.1-silenced semi-mature DCs induced partial immune tolerance both in vitro and in vivo, which could be used as a new strategy to promote transplantation tolerance.
The hemangioblast is a multipotential progenitor, which is derived from the mesoderm and can further differentiate into hematopoietic and endothelial lineages. The molecular mechanism governing the specification of hemangioblasts is fundamental to regenerative medicine based on embryonic stem cells for the treatment of various hematologic and vascular diseases. Here we show that aggf1 acts at the top of the genetic regulatory hierarchy in the specification of hemangioblasts in zebrafish. Knockdown of aggf1 expression decreases expression of endothelial cell-specific markers (cdh5, admr) and disrupts primitive hematopoiesis as shown by a decreased number of erythroid cells and reduced expression of gata1 (marker for erythroid progenitors) and pu.1 (myeloid progenitors). Aggf1 knockdown also decreases expression of runx1 and c-myb, indicating that it is required for specification of hematopoietic stem cells (definitive hematopoiesis). Aggf1 knockdown led to dramatically reduced expression of hemangioblast markers fli1, etsrp, lmo2, and scl, and hematopoietic/endothelial defects in aggf1 morphants were rescued by messenger RNA for scl, fli-vp16, or etsrp. Taken together, these data indicate that aggf1 is involved in differentiation of both hematopoietic and endothelial lineages and that aggf1 acts upstream of scl, fli1, and etsrp in specification of hemangioblasts.
Langerhans cells (LCs) are the unique dendritic cells found in the epidermis. While a great deal of attention has focused on defining the developmental origins of LCs, reports addressing the transcriptional network ruling their differentiation remain sparse. We addressed the function of a group of key DC transcription factors-PU.1, ID2, IRF4, and IRF8-in the establishment of the LC network. We show that although steady-state LC homeostasis depends on PU.1 and ID2, the latter is dispensable for bone marrow-derived LCs. PU.1 controls LC differentiation by regulating the expression of the critical TGF-β responsive transcription factor RUNX3. PU.1 directly binds to the Runx3 regulatory elements in a TGF-β-dependent manner, whereas ectopic expression of RUNX3 rescued LC differentiation in the absence of PU.1 and promoted LC differentiation from PU.1-sufficient progenitors. These findings highlight the dual molecular network underlying LC differentiation, and show the central role of PU.1 in these processes.
The induction of leukemic cell differentiation is a hopeful therapeutic modality. We studied the effects of monochloramine (NH2Cl) on erythroleukemic K562 cell differentiation, and compared the effects observed with those of U0126 and staurosporine, which are known inducers of erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation, respectively. CD235 (glycophorin) expression, a marker of erythroid differentiation, was significantly increased by NH2Cl and U0126, along with an increase in cd235 mRNA levels. Other erythroid markers such as γ-globin and CD71 (transferrin receptor) were also increased by NH2Cl and U0126. In contrast, CD61 (integrin β3) and CD42b (GP1bα) expression, markers of megakaryocytic differentiation, was increased by staurosporine, but did not change significantly by NH2Cl and U0126. NH2Cl retarded cell proliferation without a marked loss of viability. When ERK phosphorylation (T202/Y204) and CD235 expression were compared using various chemicals, a strong negative correlation was observed (r = -0.76). Paradoxically, NH2Cl and staurosporine, but not U0126, induced large cells with multiple or lobulated nuclei, which was characteristic to megakaryocytes. NH2Cl increased the mRNA levels of gata1 and scl, decreased that of gata2, and did not change those of pu.1 and klf1. The changes observed in mRNA expression were different from those of U0126 or staurosporine. These results suggest that NH2Cl induces the bidirectional differentiation of K562. Oxidative stress may be effective in inducing leukemic cell differentiation.
INTRODUCTION: Autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple sclerosis affect millions of people worldwide. Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) contains polymorphisms associated with these autoimmune diseases. Two of these functional polymorphisms are found upstream of the IRF5 gene. rs2004640, which is a single nucleotide polymorphism and the CGGGG insertion/deletion (indel) were studied. IRF5 uses four different promoters for its four first exons: 1A, 1B, 1C, and 1D. Each promoter was analyzed, including functional differences due to the autoimmune-risk polymorphisms.RESULTS: IRF5 promoters were analyzed using ChIP-Seq data (ENCODE database) and the FactorBook database to define transcription factor binding sites. To verify promoter activity, the promoters were cloned into luciferase plasmids. Each construct exhibited luciferase activity. Exons 1A and 1D contain putative PU.1 and NFkB binding sites. Imiquimod, a Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) ligand, was used to activate these transcription factors. IRF5 levels were doubled after imiquimod treatment (p < 0.001), with specific increases in the 1A promoter (2.2-fold, p = 0.03) and 1D promoter (2.8-fold, p = 0.03). A putative binding site for p53, which affects apoptosis, was found in the promoter for exon 1B. However, site-directed mutagenesis of the p53 site showed no effect in a reporter assay.CONCLUSION: The IRF5 exon 1B promoter has been characterized, and the responses of each IRF5 promoter to TLR7 stimulation have been determined. Changes in promoter activity and gene expression are likely due to specific and distinct transcription factors that bind to each promoter. Since high expression of IRF5 contributes to the development of autoimmune disease, understanding the source of increased IRF5 levels is key to understanding autoimmune etiology.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is believed to arise from leukemic stem-like cells (LSC) making understanding the biological differences between LSC and normal stem cells (HSC) or common myeloid progenitors (CMP) crucial to understanding AML biology. To determine if protein expression patterns were different in LSC compared to other AML and CD34+ populations, we measured the expression of 121 proteins by Reverse Phase Protein Arrays (RPPA) in 5 purified fractions from AML marrow and blood samples: Bulk (CD3/CD19 depleted), CD34-, CD34+(CMP), CD34+CD38+ and CD34+CD38-(LSC). LSC protein expression differed markedly from Bulk (n =31 cases, 93/121 proteins) and CD34+ cells (n = 30 cases, 88/121 proteins) with 54 proteins being significantly different (31 higher, 23 lower) in LSC than in either Bulk or CD34+ cells. Sixty-seven proteins differed significantly between CD34+ and Bulk blasts (n = 69 cases). Protein expression patterns in LSC and CD34+ differed markedly from normal CD34+ cells. LSC were distinct from CD34+ and Bulk cells by principal component and by protein signaling network analysis which confirmed individual protein analysis. Potential targetable submodules in LSC included the proteins PU.1(SP1), P27, Mcl1, HIF1α, cMET, P53, Yap, and phospho-Stats 1, 5 and 6. Protein expression and activation in LSC differs markedly from other blast populations suggesting that studies of AML biology should be performed in LSC.
A myelopoiesis gene signature in circulating leucocytes, exemplified by increased myeloperoxidase (MPO) and proteinase 3 (PR3) mRNA levels, has been reported in patients with active anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis (AAV), and to a lesser extent during remission. We hypothesized that this signature could predict disease relapse. mRNA levels of PR3, MPO, selected myelopoiesis transcription factors [CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α (CEBP-α), CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β (CEBP-β), SPI1/PU.1-related transcription factor (SPIB), spleen focus forming virus proviral integration oncogene, PU.1 homologue (SPI1)] and microRNAs (miRNAs) from patient and control peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and polymorphonuclear cells (PMN) were analysed and associated with clinical data. Patients in stable remission had higher mRNA levels for PR3 (PBMC, PMN) and MPO (PBMC). PR3 and SPIB mRNA correlated positively in controls but negatively in patient PBMC. Statistically significant correlations existed between PR3 mRNA and several miRNAs in controls, but not in patients. PR3/MPO mRNA levels were not associated with previous or future relapses, but correlated with steroid treatment. Prednisolone doses were negatively linked to SPIB and miR-155-5p, miR-339-5p (PBMC) and to miR-221, miR-361 and miR-505 (PMN). PR3 mRNA in PBMC correlated with time since last flare, blood leucocyte count and estimated glomerular filtration rate. Our results show that elevated leucocyte PR3 mRNA levels in AAV patients in remission do not predict relapse. The origin seems multi-factorial, but to an important extent explainable by prednisolone action. Gene signatures in patients with AAV undergoing steroid treatment should therefore be interpreted accordingly.
Genome-wide association studies have identified a number of autoimmune disease-susceptibility genes. Whether or not these loci share any regulatory or functional elements, however, is an open question. Finding such common regulators is of considerable research interest in order to define systemic therapeutic targets. The growing amount of experimental genomic annotations, particularly those from the ENCODE project, provide a wealth of opportunities to search for such commonalities. We hypothesized that regulatory commonalities might not only delineate a regulatory landscape predisposing to autoimmune diseases, but also define functional elements distinguishing specific diseases. We further investigated if, and how, disease-specific epigenomic elements can identify novel genes yet to be associated with the diseases. We evaluated transcription factors, histone modifications, and chromatin state data obtained from the ENCODE project for statistically significant over- or under-representation in the promoters of genes associated with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), and Systemic Sclerosis (SSc). We identified BATF, BCL11A, IRF4, NFkB, PAX5, and PU.1 as transcription factors over-represented in SLE- and RA-susceptibility gene promoters. H3K4me1 and H3K4me2 epigenomic marks were associated with SLE susceptibility genes, and H3K9me3 was common to both SLE and RA. In contrast to a transcriptionally active signature in SLE and RA, SSc-susceptibility genes were depleted in activating epigenomic elements. Using epigenomic elements enriched in SLE and RA, we identified additional immune and B cell signaling-related genes with the same elements in their promoters. Our analysis suggests common and disease-specific epigenomic elements that may define novel therapeutic targets for controlling aberrant activation of autoimmune susceptibility genes.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigens EBNALP (LP) and EBNA2 (E2) are coexpressed in EBV-infected B lymphocytes and are critical for lymphoblastoid cell line outgrowth. LP removes NCOR and RBPJ repressive complexes from promoters, enhancers, and matrix-associated deacetylase bodies, whereas E2 activates transcription from distal enhancers. LP ChIP-seq analyses identified 19,224 LP sites of which ~50% were ± 2 kb of a transcriptional start site. LP sites were enriched for B-cell transcription factors (TFs), YY1, SP1, PAX5, BATF, IRF4, ETS1, RAD21, PU.1, CTCF, RBPJ, ZNF143, SMC3, NFκB, TBLR, and EBF. E2 sites were also highly enriched for LP-associated cell TFs and were more highly occupied by RBPJ and EBF. LP sites were highly marked by H3K4me3, H3K27ac, H2Az, H3K9ac, RNAPII, and P300, indicative of activated transcription. LP sites were 29% colocalized with E2 (LP/E2). LP/E2 sites were more similar to LP than to E2 sites in associated cell TFs, RNAPII, P300, and histone H3K4me3, H3K9ac, H3K27ac, and H2Az occupancy, and were more highly transcribed than LP or E2 sites. Gene affected by CTCF and LP cooccupancy were more highly expressed than genes affected by CTCF alone. LP was at myc enhancers and promoters and of MYC regulated ccnd2, 23 med complex components, and MYC regulated cell survival genes, igf2r and bcl2. These data implicate LP and associated TFs and DNA looping factors CTCF, RAD21, SMC3, and YY1/INO80 chromatin-remodeling complexes in repressor depletion and gene activation necessary for lymphoblastoid cell line growth and survival.
BACKGROUND: Ocular manifestations of Behcet's disease (BD) need aggressive treatment to prevent severe loss of vision or blindness. Cytotoxic drugs are the main therapeutic agents and the first line treatment. Methotrexate is the least toxic, used mainly for posterior uveitis. We present here the outcome of eye lesions with methotrexate and prednisolone, in a longitudinal study of up to 15 years, on 682 patients (5447 eye-years of follow-up).PATIENTS AND METHODS: Methotrexate was started at 7.5-15 mg/week. Prednisolone was added at 0.5 mg/kg/daily, then adjusted as needed.INCLUSION CRITERIA: (i) fulfilling the International Criteria for Behcet's Disease; and (ii) having active posterior uveitis (PU). Visual acuity (VA) was calculated on a scale of 10. Activity indexes were calculated for PU and retinal vasculitis (RV) for each eye. Total Inflammatory Activity Index (TIAI) demonstrating the inflammatory index of both eyes of the patient, and Total Adjusted Disease Activity Index (TADAI) showing both TIAI + VA were also calculated.RESULTS: Overall results: the mean VA improvement was 0.4 (P < 001), PU 1.2 (P < 0.001) and RV 0.6 (P < 0.001). VA improved in 46.5%, PU in 75.4%, and RV in 53.7% of eyes. TIAI improved in 74% of patients and TADAI in 69.4%. VA was aggravated in 37.2%, PU in 11.1%, and RV in 30.3% of eyes. TIAI was aggravated in 17.4% and TADAI in 21.6% of the patients. The remaining kept their baseline values.CONCLUSION: All parameters improved, PU better than RV. Improvement of VA was the least, mainly due to secondary cataracts.
ETS transcription factors mediate a wide array of cellular functions and are attractive targets for pharmacological control of gene regulation. We report the inhibition of the ETS-family member PU.1 with a panel of novel heterocyclic diamidines. These diamidines are derivatives of furamidine (DB75) in which the central furan has been replaced with selenophene and/or one or both of the bridging phenyl has been replaced with benzimidazole. Like all ETS proteins, PU.1 binds sequence specifically to 10-bp sites by inserting a recognition helix into the major groove of a 5'-GGAA-3' consensus, accompanied by contacts with the flanking minor groove. We showed that diamidines target the minor groove of AT-rich sequences on one or both sides of the consensus and disrupt PU.1 binding. Although all of the diamidines bind to one or both of the expected sequences within the binding site, considerable heterogeneity exists in terms of stoichiometry, site-site interactions and induced DNA conformation. We also showed that these compounds accumulate in live cell nuclei and inhibit PU.1-dependent gene transactivation. This study demonstrates that heterocyclic diamidines are capable of inhibiting PU.1 by targeting the flanking sequences and supports future efforts to develop agents for inhibiting specific members of the ETS family.
The human T-cell leukemia/lymphoma virus type 1 (HTLV-1) p30 protein, essential for virus infectivity in vivo, is required for efficient infection of human dendritic cells (DCs) but not B and T cells in vitro. We used a human monocytic cell line, THP-1, and dendritic cells to study the mechanism of p30 and p12/p8 requirements in these cell types. p30 inhibited the expression of interferon (IFN)-responsive genes (ISG) following stimulation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and by poly(I·C) of TLR3 but not of TLR7/8 with imiquimod. Results with THP-1 mirrored those for ex vivo human primary monocytes and monocyte-derived dendritic cells (Mo-mDC). The effect of p30 on TLR signaling was also demonstrated by ablating its expression within a molecular clone of HTLV-1. HTLV-1 infection of monocytes inhibited TLR3- and TLR4-induced ISG expression by 50 to 90% depending on the genes, whereas the isogenic clone p30 knockout virus was less effective at inhibiting TLR3 and TRL4 signaling and displayed lower infectivity. Viral expression and inhibition of ISG transcription was, however, rescued by restoration of p30 expression. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated that p30 inhibits initiation and elongation of PU.1-dependent transcription of IFN-α1, IFN-β, and TLR4 genes upon TLR stimulation. In contrast, experiments conducted with p12/p8 did not demonstrate an effect on ISG expression. These results provide a mechanistic explanation of the requirement of p30 for HTLV-1 infectivity in vivo, suggest that dampening interferon responses in monocytes and DCs is specific for p30, and represent an essential early step for permissive HTLV-1 infection and persistence.
Precursor cell entry into the T-cell developmental pathway can be divided into two phases by the closure of T-lineage commitment. As cells decide against the last alternative options to the T-cell fate, they turn on the transcription factor Bcl11b and silence expression of a group of multipotent progenitor regulatory factors that include hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1. Functional perturbation tests show that Bcl11b is needed for commitment while PU.1 actively participates in keeping open access to alternative fates, until it is silenced; however, PU.1 and Bcl11b both contribute positively to T-cell development. Our recent work reviewed here sheds light on the transcriptional regulatory network that determines the timing and irreversibility of Bcl11b activation, the ways that Notch signaling from the thymic microenvironment restricts the action of PU.1 to prevent it from diverting cells to non-T fates, and the target genes that PU.1 still regulates under the influence of Notch signaling to contribute to T-cell generation. We argue that T-cell development depends on the sequential operation of two interlaced, but mutually antagonistic, gene regulatory networks, one initially supporting expansion before commitment and the other imposing a "terminal" differentiation process on committed cells.
PU.1 downregulation within hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) is the primary mechanism for the development of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in mice with homozygous deletion of the upstream regulatory element (URE) of PU.1 gene. p53 is a well-known tumor suppressor that is often mutated in human hematologic malignancies including AML and adds to their aggressiveness; however, its genetic deletion does not cause AML in mouse. Deletion of p53 in the PU.1(ure/ure) mice (PU.1(ure/ure)p53(-/-)) results in more aggressive AML with shortened overall survival. PU.1(ure/ure)p53(-/-) progenitors express significantly lower PU.1 levels. In addition to URE deletion we searched for other mechanisms that in the absence of p53 contribute to decreased PU.1 levels in PU.1(ure/ure)p53(-/-) mice. We found involvement of Myb and miR-155 in downregulation of PU.1 in aggressive murine AML. Upon inhibition of either Myb or miR-155 in vitro the AML progenitors restore PU.1 levels and lose leukemic cell growth similarly to PU.1 rescue. The MYB/miR-155/PU.1 axis is a target of p53 and is activated early after p53 loss as indicated by transient p53 knockdown. Furthermore, deregulation of both MYB and miR-155 coupled with PU.1 downregulation was observed in human AML, suggesting that MYB/miR-155/PU.1 mechanism may be involved in the pathogenesis of AML and its aggressiveness characterized by p53 mutation.
We used the paradigmatic GATA-PU.1 axis to explore, at the systems level, dynamic relationships between transcription factor (TF) binding and global gene expression programs as multipotent cells differentiate. We combined global ChIP-seq of GATA1, GATA2, and PU.1 with expression profiling during differentiation to erythroid and neutrophil lineages. Our analysis reveals (1) differential complexity of sequence motifs bound by GATA1, GATA2, and PU.1; (2) the scope and interplay of GATA1 and GATA2 programs within, and during transitions between, different cell compartments, and the extent of their hard-wiring by DNA motifs; (3) the potential to predict gene expression trajectories based on global associations between TF-binding data and target gene expression; and (4) how dynamic modeling of DNA-binding and gene expression data can be used to infer regulatory logic of TF circuitry. This rubric exemplifies the utility of this cross-platform resource for deconvoluting the complexity of transcriptional programs controlling stem/progenitor cell fate in hematopoiesis.
We describe a novel role for the orphan nuclear receptor Ear-2 in regulating T cell development. Retrovirus-mediated overexpression of Ear-2 (EAR-2++) in a bone marrow (BM) transplantation assay resulted in limited T cell development and a greater than tenfold decrease in thymus size and cellularity relative to controls. Ear-2-transduced murine BM hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in OP9-DL1 cultures showed a proliferation deficit during days 1-5 after induction of differentiation, which corresponded to increased expression of the cell cycle regulators p21 (cdkn1a) and p27 (cdkn1b), as well as increased expression of Hes1, Notch3, Egr1, and Scl (Tal1) and decreased expression of Gli1, Gfi-1, HoxA9, PU.1, Nrarp, and Tcf1. In addition, there was a block in differentiation at the DN4 to double-positive (DP) transition accompanied by an increase in apoptosis, similar to the deficit seen in the RORγt null mouse. Gene expression profiling revealed that, like the RORγt-deficient mouse, EAR-2++ DP cells had decreased expression of BclXL and increased expression of the proapoptosis gene Bad. In addition, EAR-2++ DP cells had decreased expression of Bcl11b, PU.1, and HoxA9, and increased expression of Id2. Based on these findings, we conclude that EAR-2++ cells were able to migrate to, but not fully repopulate, the thymus because of a cell-intrinsic defect in the proliferation of DN1 cells followed by a block in differentiation from the DN4 to DP stage of T cell development. We conclude that Ear-2 is a novel negative regulator of T-cell development and that downregulation of Ear-2 is indispensable for the proliferation of DN1 cells and the survival of DN4-DP cells.
The trim14 (pub, KIAA0129) gene encodes the TRIM14 protein which is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. Previously, we revealed high expression levels of trim14 in HIV- or SIV-associated lymphomas and demonstrated the influence of trim14 on mesodermal differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESC). In the present work, to elucidate the role of trim14 in normal and pathological processes in the cell, we used two different types of cells transfected with trim14: mESC and human HEK293. Using subtractive hybridization and real-time PCR, we found a number of genes which expression was elevated in trim14-transfected mESC: hsp90ab1, prr13, pu.1, tnfrsf13c (baff-r), tnfrsf13b (taci), hlx1, hbp1, junb, and pdgfrb. A further analysis of the trim14-transfected mESC at the initial stage of differentiation (embryoid bodies (EB) formation) showed essential changes in the expression of these upregulated genes. The transfection of trim14 into HEK293 also induced an enhanced expression of the several genes upregulated in trim14-transfected mESC (hsp90ab1, prr13, pu.1, tnfrsf13c (baff-r), tnfrsf13b (taci), and hlx1). Summarizing, we found similar genes that participated in trim14-directed processes both in mESC and in HEK293. These results demonstrate the presence of the similar mechanism of trim14 gene action in different types of mammalian cells.
Transcription factors play a crucial role in regulating differentiation processes during human life and are important in disease. The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors Tal1 and Lyl1 play a major role in the regulation of gene expression in the hematopoietic system and are involved in human leukemia. Tal2, which belongs to the same family of transcription factors as Tal1 and Lyl1, is also involved in human leukaemia. However, little is known regarding the expression and regulation of Tal2 in hematopoietic cells. Here we show that Tal2 is expressed in hematopoietic cells of the myeloid lineage. Interestingly, we found that usage of the Tal2 promoter is different in human and mouse cells. Two promoters, hP1 and hP2 drive Tal2 expression in human erythroleukemia K562 cells, however in mouse RAW cells only the mP1 promoter is used. Furthermore, we found that Tal2 expression is upregulated during oesteoclastogenesis. We show that Tal2 is a direct target gene of the myeloid transcription factor PU.1, which is a key transcription factor for osteoclast gene expression. Strikingly, PU.1 binding to the P1 promoter is conserved between mouse and human, but PU.1 binding to P2 was only detected in human K562 cells. Additionally, we provide evidence that Tal2 influences the expression of the osteoclastic differentiation gene TRACP. These findings provide novel insight into the expression control of Tal2 in hematopoietic cells and reveal a function of Tal2 as a regulator of gene expression during osteoclast differentiation.
Dendritic cells (DCs) drive both adaptive and innate immunity. Recent findings support the notion that distinct subsets of classical DCs favor alternative modules of immunity, acting on innate lymphoid-like cells (ILCs) and T cells similarly to promote either ILC1/Th1/CTL- or ILC3/Th17-type responses. Coordination between DC subsets and their favored immune module might imply that the genetic programs for DC diversification preceded the emergence of recombination-activating gene-dependent adaptive immunity and operate initially in coordinating ILC repertoires for appropriate responses against pathogens. Consequently, understanding the molecular basis of DC developmental and diversification is important for an underlying appreciation of immune regulation. Currently, the basis for DC development into the recognized subsets/lineages is only partially understood, based on the requirements for several transcription factors including PU.1, Bcl11a, Irf8, E2-2, Id2, Irf4, Irf8, Batf3, and other BATF family members. This chapter will briefly review recent transcriptional aspects of DC development and function and then highlight some currently unresolved questions.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are essential for the initiation of an effective immune response. Despite this, our understanding of the molecular regulation of this important cell type has lagged significantly behind that of other lymphoid populations such as B and T cells, but recent development of various tools has greatly facilitated progress in the field. Here, we review the transcription factors that drive peripheral DC subset fate decisions. While Pu.1, Ikaros, and Gfi-1 are essential for precursor DCs to give rise to monocytes, conventional DCs, and plasmacytoid DCs, the balance between E2-2 and Id2 directs committed precursors along a pDC or cDC lineage, respectively. Several transcription factors such as Batf3, Nfil3, and Id2 are required for different DC subsets at steady-state and drive segregation into the individual DCs subsets late in development in the CD8 lineage. During inflammation, CD8-expressing DCs emerge that feature many of the hallmarks of classical CD8α(+) DCs but surprisingly do not depend on the same transcription factors. Thus, the immune system has developed two pathways of DC differentiation that enable it to maintain homeostatic balance and to respond rapidly to the emergency requirement for DCs that might occur during infection.
Across a variety of adverse life circumstances, such as social isolation and low socioeconomic status, mammalian immune cells have been found to show a conserved transcriptional response to adversity (CTRA) involving increased expression of proinflammatory genes. The present study examines whether such effects might stem in part from the selective up-regulation of a subpopulation of immature proinflammatory monocytes (Ly-6c(high) in mice, CD16(-) in humans) within the circulating leukocyte pool. Transcriptome representation analyses showed relative expansion of the immature proinflammatory monocyte transcriptome in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from people subject to chronic social stress (low socioeconomic status) and mice subject to repeated social defeat. Cellular dissection of the mouse peripheral blood mononuclear cell transcriptome confirmed these results, and promoter-based bioinformatic analyses indicated increased activity of transcription factors involved in early myeloid lineage differentiation and proinflammatory effector function (PU.1, NF-κB, EGR1, MZF1, NRF2). Analysis of bone marrow hematopoiesis confirmed increased myelopoietic output of Ly-6c(high) monocytes and Ly-6c(intermediate) granulocytes in mice subject to repeated social defeat, and these effects were blocked by pharmacologic antagonists of β-adrenoreceptors and the myelopoietic growth factor GM-CSF. These results suggest that sympathetic nervous system-induced up-regulation of myelopoiesis mediates the proinflammatory component of the leukocyte CTRA dynamic and may contribute to the increased risk of inflammation-related disease associated with adverse social conditions.
DAPK2 is a proapoptotic protein that is mostly expressed in the hematopoietic tissue. A detailed DAPK2 expression analysis in two large AML patient cohorts revealed particularly low DAPK2 mRNA levels in APL. DAPK2 levels were restored in APL patients undergoing ATRA therapy. PML-RARA is the predominant lesion in APL causing transcriptional repression of genes important for neutrophil differentiation. We found binding of PML-RARA and PU.1, a myeloid master regulator, to RARA and PU.1 binding sites in the DAPK2 promoter. Ectopic expression of PML-RARA in non-APL, as well as knocking down PU.1 in APL cells, resulted in a significant reduction of DAPK2 expression. Restoring DAPK2 expression in PU.1 knockdown APL cells partially rescued neutrophil differentiation, thereby identifying DAPK2 as a relevant PU.1 downstream effector. Moreover, low DAPK2 expression is also associated with C/EBPα-mutated AML patients, and we found C/EBPα-dependent regulation of DAPK2 during APL differentiation. In conclusion, we identified first inhibitory mechanisms responsible for the low DAPK2 expression in particular AML subtypes, and the regulation of DAPK2 by two myeloid transcription factors underlines its importance in neutrophil development.
Myeloid differentiation is a complex process whereby mature granulocytes or monocytes/macrophages are derived from a common myeloid progenitor through the coordinated action of hematopoietic cytokines. In this study, we explored the role of the Ca(2+)i signaling transduction pathway in the commitment of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells to either the monocytic or granulocytic lineage in response to macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). M-CSF and G-CSF induce cell expansion and monocyte or granulocyte differentiation, respectively, without affecting the percentage of hematopoietic progenitor cells. Colony-forming units (CFUs) and flow cytometry demonstrated the involvement of phospholipase Cγ (PLCγ) and protein kinase C (PKC) in monocyte/granulocyte commitment. In addition, using flow cytometry and RNA interference, we identified PLCγ2 as the PLCγ isoform that participates in this cell expansion and differentiation. Differences in signaling elicited by M-CSF and G-CSF were observed. The M-CSF-related effects were associated with the activation of ERK1/2 and nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFAT); the inhibition of both molecules reduced the number of colonies in a CFU assay. In contrast, using flow cytometry and confocal evaluation, we demonstrated that G-CSF activated Jak-1 and STAT-3. Additionally, the effects induced by G-CSF were also related with the participation of Ca(2+) calmodulin kinase II and the transcription factor PU.1. STAT-3 activation and the increase of PU.1 expression were sensitive to PLC inhibition by U73122. These data show that PLCγ2 and PKC are important upstream signals that regulate myelopoiesis through cytokines, and differences in M-CSF and G-CSF downstream signaling were identified.
Regulation of the hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1, a member of the ETS family, plays a critical role in the development of blood cells and in leukemia. The dosage of PU.1 has been shown to cause a shift in myelomonocytic progenitor fate. Pin1 is a unique substrate-specific enzyme that can isomerize phospho-Ser/Thr-Pro peptide bonds, accelerating the conformational change in its substrates between a cis and a trans form. Such activity has been demonstrated to be a tightly controlled mechanism regulating a wide variety of protein functions under both normal physiological and pathological conditions. We have previously reported that a conformational change in Runx2 induced by Pin1 is essential for its function in osteogenesis in vitro and in vivo. In this study, we show that the Pin1-mediated conformational change in Runx1 enhances its acetylation and stabilization and, consequently, enhances its transacting activity. The increased acetylation of Runx1 represses PU.1 transcription in pre-monocytes. Conversely, the lack of (or the inhibition of) Pin1 increases PU.1 transcription in vitro and in vivo in pre-monocytes and in the spleen tissue. Pin1 KO mice have an increased CD11b(+) /F4/80(+) cell population and F4/80 protein expression in spleen. From our data, we can conclude that the conformational change in Runx1 induced by Pin1 represses PU.1 transcription in pre-monocytes and influences the commitment to the monocyte lineage. The dosage of PU.1 is a crucial factor in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and Pin1 may thus be a useful target for controlling PU.1-dependent hematopoiesis, as well as leukemogenesis.
T helper type 9 (Th9) cells are a novel identified subset of CD4(+) T helper cells, which could partly contribute to allergic inflammation, while the precise contribution of Th9 cells in atopic dermatitis (AD) remains unknown. We aimed to explore the possible role of Th9 cells in AD pathogenesis. The Th9 cell percentage, transcription factor PU.1 and cytokine interleukin (IL)-9 mRNA levels, as well as IL-9 serum concentration in peripheral circulation, were measured in AD patients, psoriasis patients and healthy controls. The Th9 cell percentage, PU.1 and IL-9 expression levels of AD patients were all increased significantly compared with the other two control groups (P < 0·01), and correlated positively with SCORing Atopic Dermatitis index, serum immunoglobulin (Ig)E and thymus- and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) levels (P < 0·05). In simple AD patients and AD patients complicated by allergic rhinitis or asthma, there were no significant differences in the Th9 cell percentage, PU.1 and IL-9 expression levels between them. At the same time, IL-9 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA levels were detected in AD lesions and normal skin samples, which were both distinctly elevated in AD lesions, and there was a positive association between them (P < 0·01). Keratinocytes were cultured with IL-9 stimulation and the secretion of VEGF was detected. IL-9 can promote the secretion of VEGF by keratinocytes in a time- and dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, the expansion of the Th9 cell subset, up-regulation of the PU.1 transcription factor and increased secretion of the IL-9 cytokine may contribute to the pathogenesis of AD, which may be supported by the increased release of VEGF by keratinocyes after IL-9 stimulation.
Nrf2 is a transcription factor that protects against inflammatory diseases, but the underlying mechanism of this effect remains unclear. Here, we report that Nrf2 uses lipocalin-prostaglandin D synthase (L-PGDS) as a mechanism for suppressing inflammation. Exogenously added prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) induced L-PGDS expression in bone-marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), suggesting a positive feedback loop between L-PGDS expression and PGD2. Unlike lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced L-PGDS expression, PGD2-mediated expression was independent of MAPK, PU.1, or TLR4. Sequence analysis located a putative Nrf2 binding site in the murine L-PGDS promoter, to which Nrf2 bound when treated with PGD2. Chemical activation, or overexpression, of Nrf2 was sufficient to induce L-PGDS expression in macrophages, BMDMs, or lungs of Nrf2-knockout (KO) mice, but treatment with PGD2 failed to do so, suggesting a pivotal role for Nrf2 in the expression of L-PGDS. Consistent with this, expression of Nrf2 in the lungs of Nrf2-KO mice was sufficient to induce the expression of L-PGDS and to reduce neutrophilic lung inflammation elicited by LPS. Furthermore, expression of L-PGDS in mouse lungs decreased neutrophilic infiltration, ameliorating lung inflammation in mice. Together, our results show that Nrf2, activated by PGD2, induced L-PGDS expression, resulting in decreased inflammation. We suggest that the positive feedback induction of L-PGDS by PGD2 is part of the mechanism by which Nrf2 regulates inflammation.
In mice, the proviral integration of the Friend Spleen Focus Forming Virus (SFFV) within the PU.1 locus of erythroid precursors results in the development of erythroleukemia. SFFV integrates several kilobases upstream of the PU.1 transcription initiation start site leading to the constitutive activation of the gene which in turn results in a block of erythroid differentiation. In this study we have mapped and sequenced the exact location of the retroviral integration site. We have shown that SFFV integrates downstream of a previously described upstream regulatory element (URE), precisely 2,976 bp downstream of the URE-distal element. We have also found that SFFV persists integrated within the same location in resistant cell lines that have lost their differentiation capacity and in which case PU.1 remains silent. We have examined the methylation status of PU.1 and found that in resistant cells the nearby CpG islands remained methylated in contrast to a non-methylated status of the parental cell lines. Treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine caused resistant cells to differentiate yet only when combined with HMBA. Altogether these results strongly suggest that methylation plays a crucial role with regard to PU.1 silencing. However, although demethylation is required, it is not sufficient to overcome the differentiation impasse. We have also showed that activation blockage of the Epo/Epo-R pathway remains despite of the absence of PU.1.
Different mechanisms for CBFβ-MYH11 function in acute myeloid leukemia with inv(16) have been proposed such as tethering of RUNX1 outside the nucleus, interference with transcription factor complex assembly and recruitment of histone deacetylases, all resulting in transcriptional repression of RUNX1 target genes. Here, through genome-wide CBFβ-MYH11-binding site analysis and quantitative interaction proteomics, we found that CBFβ-MYH11 localizes to RUNX1 occupied promoters, where it interacts with TAL1, FLI1 and TBP-associated factors (TAFs) in the context of the hematopoietic transcription factors ERG, GATA2 and PU.1/SPI1 and the coregulators EP300 and HDAC1. Transcriptional analysis revealed that upon fusion protein knockdown, a small subset of the CBFβ-MYH11 target genes show increased expression, confirming a role in transcriptional repression. However, the majority of CBFβ-MYH11 target genes, including genes implicated in hematopoietic stem cell self-renewal such as ID1, LMO1 and JAG1, are actively transcribed and repressed upon fusion protein knockdown. Together these results suggest an essential role for CBFβ-MYH11 in regulating the expression of genes involved in maintaining a stem cell phenotype.
MOZ and MLL encoding a histone acetyltransferase and a histone methyltransferase, respectively, are targets for recurrent chromosomal translocations found in acute myeloblastic or lymphoblastic leukemia. We have previously shown that MOZ and MLL cooperate to activate HOXA9 gene expression in hematopoietic stem/progenitors cells. To dissect the mechanism of action of this complex, we decided to identify new proteins interacting with MOZ. We found that the scaffold protein Symplekin that supports the assembly of polyadenylation machinery was identified by mass spectrometry. Symplekin interacts and co-localizes with both MOZ and MLL in immature hematopoietic cells. Its inhibition leads to a decrease of the HOXA9 protein level but not of Hoxa9 mRNA and to an over-recruitment of MOZ and MLL onto the HOXA9 promoter. Altogether, our results highlight the role of Symplekin in transcription repression involving a regulatory network between MOZ, MLL and Symplekin.
Author information:(1)Zaklad Socjologii Medycyny Katedry Epidemiologii i Medycyny Zapobiegawczej, UJ CM w Krakowie, ul Kopernika 7a, 31- 034 Kraków. mytobias@cyf-kr.edu.pl
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Basophils and eosinophils represent less than 1 and 5% of white blood cells, respectively. Their role in asthma and allergic inflammation remains incompletely defined. The present review addresses recent advances regarding the role of these two cell populations in allergic inflammation and asthma regarding both biological and genetic point of view.RECENT FINDINGS: Regarding eosinophils, the role of interleukin(IL)-25, IL-33 and thymic stromal lymphoprotein (TSLP) have been evidenced, and activation states of eosinophil β1 and β2 integrins have been found to correlate with the measurement of eosinophil recruitment and pulmonary function in asthma. New insights into the biology of basophils concern their role as regulators of Th2 cell response through IL-4 expression or the differentiation of monocytes to macrophages, and their population heterogeneity in human. The transcription factor PU.1 was reported to be involved in controlling transcription of specific genes both in eosinophils and basophils. Candidate genetic studies on eosinophils have explored genes involved in the intracellular calcium influx and apoptosis. At the genome-wide level, studies identified genetic variants belonging to IL1RL1, TSLP and IL-33, and four loci with pleiotropic effects on eosinophil and basophil counts [GATA2 (3q21), MHC (6p21), HBS1L-MYB (6q23), and ERG (21q22)].SUMMARY: Recent findings from biological and genetic studies on eosinophils and basophils highlight the role of epithelial cell-derived cytokines such as TSLP and IL-33 in asthma and allergic diseases.
Macrophages as phagocytes and professional antigen presenting cells play critical roles in both innate and adaptive immunity. Main transcription factors acting during their differentiation and function are known, but the behavior and co-operation of these factors still remained unexplored. We introduce a new approach to map nucleosome-free regions using exclusively active enhancer and core promoter marking histone modification ChIP-seq data. We could detect approximately 56,000 potential active enhancers/promoters showing different lengths and histone modification shapes. Beside the highly enriched PU.1 and C/EBP sites, we could also detect binding sites for RUNX and AP-1, as well as for the MiT (MITF-TFE) family and MEF2 proteins. The PU.1 and C/EBP transcription factors are known for transforming cells into macrophages. The other transcription factors found in this study can play a role in macrophages as well, since it is known that the MiT family proteins are responsible for phagocytic activity and the MEF2 proteins specify monocytic differentiation over the granulocyte direction. Our results imply that this method can provide novel information about transcription factor organization at enhancers and core promoters as well as about the histone modifications surrounding regulatory regions in any immune or other cell types.
Interleukin-1β and Tumor Necrosis Factor α play related, but distinct, roles in immunity and disease. Our study revealed major mechanistic distinctions in the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling-dependent induction for the rapidly expressed genes (IL1B and TNF) coding for these two cytokines. Prior to induction, TNF exhibited pre-bound TATA Binding Protein (TBP) and paused RNA Polymerase II (Pol II), hallmarks of poised immediate-early (IE) genes. In contrast, unstimulated IL1B displayed very low levels of both TBP and paused Pol II, requiring the lineage-specific Spi-1/PU.1 (Spi1) transcription factor as an anchor for induction-dependent interaction with two TLR-activated transcription factors, C/EBPβ and NF-κB. Activation and DNA binding of these two pre-expressed factors resulted in de novo recruitment of TBP and Pol II to IL1B in concert with a permissive state for elongation mediated by the recruitment of elongation factor P-TEFb. This Spi1-dependent mechanism for IL1B transcription, which is unique for a rapidly-induced/poised IE gene, was more dependent upon P-TEFb than was the case for the TNF gene. Furthermore, the dependence on phosphoinositide 3-kinase for P-TEFb recruitment to IL1B paralleled a greater sensitivity to the metabolic state of the cell and a lower sensitivity to the phenomenon of endotoxin tolerance than was evident for TNF. Such differences in induction mechanisms argue against the prevailing paradigm that all IE genes possess paused Pol II and may further delineate the specific roles played by each of these rapidly expressed immune modulators.
The bursa of Fabricius (BF) is the acknowledged central humoral immune organ unique to birds which plays important roles in B cell development and antibody production. Little information on immunomodulatory functions of BF is reported, except for several reported active bursal-derived peptides. Three peptides were identified and characterized from BF through RP-HPLC and MADIL-TOF methods. They are named as bursal peptide (BP)-I, BP-II, BP-III. These peptides promoted CFU pre-B formation and decreased PU.1 expression. The different immunomodulatory activities of these three bursal peptides on antibody and cytokine productions were verified by the immunization comparative experiment. The results showed the three bursal peptides enhanced AIV-specific antibody and cytokine production, T-cell immunophenotyping at reachable concentrations. These results indicate the important orientations for the comprehensive understanding of the humoral central immune system, and provide a novel insight on new experimental reagents for immuno-adjuvant or immunopharmacological.
Erratum in    Science. 2013 Oct 18;342(6156):311. Champhekhar, Ameya [corrected to Champhekar, Ameya].
BACKGROUND: Microglia are the primary immune cells of the brain whose phenotype largely depends on their surrounding micro-environment. Microglia respond to a multitude of soluble molecules produced by a variety of brain cells. Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) is a cytokine found in the brain whose receptor is expressed by microglia. Previous studies suggest a critical role for M-CSF in brain development and normal functioning as well as in several disease processes involving neuroinflammation.METHODS: Using biopsy tissue from patients with intractable temporal epilepsy and autopsy tissue, we cultured primary adult human microglia to investigate their response to M-CSF. Mixed glial cultures were treated with 25 ng/ml M-CSF for 96 hours. Proliferation and phagocytosis assays, and high through-put immunocytochemistry, microscopy and image analysis were performed to investigate microglial phenotype and function.RESULTS: We found that the phenotype of primary adult human microglia was markedly changed following exposure to M-CSF. A greater number of microglia were present in the M-CSF- treated cultures as the percentage of proliferating (BrdU and Ki67-positive) microglia was greatly increased. A number of changes in protein expression occurred following M-CSF treatment, including increased transcription factors PU.1 and C/EBPβ, increased DAP12 adaptor protein, increased M-CSF receptor (CSF-1R) and IGF-1 receptor, and reduced HLA-DP, DQ, DR antigen presentation protein. Furthermore, a distinct morphological change was observed with elongation of microglial processes. These changes in phenotype were accompanied by a functional increase in phagocytosis of Aβ1-42 peptide.CONCLUSIONS: We show here that the cytokine M-CSF dramatically influences the phenotype of adult human microglia. These results pave the way for future investigation of M-CSF-related targets for human therapeutic benefit.
The unique sensitivity of early red cell progenitors to iron deprivation, known as the erythroid iron restriction response, serves as a basis for human anemias globally. This response impairs erythropoietin-driven erythropoiesis and underlies erythropoietic repression in iron deficiency anemia. Mechanistically, the erythroid iron restriction response results from inactivation of aconitase enzymes and can be suppressed by providing the aconitase product isocitrate. Recent studies have implicated the erythroid iron restriction response in anemia of chronic disease and inflammation (ACDI), offering new therapeutic avenues for a major clinical problem; however, inflammatory signals may also directly repress erythropoiesis in ACDI. Here, we show that suppression of the erythroid iron restriction response by isocitrate administration corrected anemia and erythropoietic defects in rats with ACDI. In vitro studies demonstrated that erythroid repression by inflammatory signaling is potently modulated by the erythroid iron restriction response in a kinase-dependent pathway involving induction of the erythroid-inhibitory transcription factor PU.1. These results reveal the integration of iron and inflammatory inputs in a therapeutically tractable erythropoietic regulatory circuit.
Deregulation of transcriptional networks contributes to haematopoietic malignancies. The transcription factor Spi-1/PU.1 is a master regulator of haematopoiesis and its alteration leads to leukaemia. Spi-1 overexpression inhibits differentiation and promotes resistance to apoptosis in erythroleukaemia. Here, we show that Spi-1 inhibits mitochondrial apoptosis in vitro and in vivo through the transcriptional repression of Bim, a proapoptotic factor. BIM interacts with MCL-1 that behaves as a major player in the survival of the preleukaemic cells. The repression of BIM expression reduces the amount of BIM-MCL-1 complexes, thus increasing the fraction of potentially active antiapoptotic MCL-1. We then demonstrate that Spi-1 represses Bim transcription by binding to the Bim promoter and by promoting the trimethylation of histone 3 on lysine 27 (H3K27me3, a repressive histone mark) on the Bim promoter. The PRC2 repressive complex of Polycomb is directly responsible for the deposit of H3K27me3 mark at the Bim promoter. SUZ12 and the histone methyltransferase EZH2, two PRC2 subunits bind to the Bim promoter at the same location than H3K27me3, distinct of the Spi-1 DNA binding site. As Spi-1 interacts with SUZ12 and EZH2, these results indicate that Spi-1 modulates the activity of PRC2 without directly recruiting the complex to the site of its activity on the chromatin. Our results identify a new mechanism whereby Spi-1 represses transcription and provide mechanistic insights on the antiapoptotic function of a transcription factor mediated by the epigenetic control of gene expression.
AIM: des-O-methyllasiodiplodin (DML) from Cerbera manghas has shown antagonistic activity against mineralocorticoid receptor (MR). Considering the involvement of MR in the insulin tolerance, we attempted to investigate the potential of DML in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).METHODS: Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) technology and reporter gene-based assays were used to study protein-small molecule interactions. HepG2 and 3T3-L1 cells were treated with H2O2 (0.2 mmol/L) or aldosterone (10 nmol/L) for 24 h. The expression of MR in the cells was downregulated with siRNA. The anti-inflammatory effect of the compound was evaluated, respectively. db/db mice were administered DML (30 mg·kg(-1)·d(-1)) for 4 weeks. Serum biochemical parameters and insulin sensitivity were examined. The expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (MCP-1, TNF-α and IL-6) and ROS-related genes (NADPH p47 subunit and transcriptional factor PU.1) in adipose tissues and livers were analyzed using real-time RT-PCR.RESULTS: In HepG2 and 3T3-L1 cells, both H2O2 and aldosterone markedly stimulates the expression of MCP-1, TNFα, IL-6, p47 and PU.1 genes. Co-treatment with DML (10 μmol/L) significantly reduced the H2O2- or aldosterone-induced expression of these genes. SPR-based assay confirmed the antagonistic activity of DML against the interaction between SRC-1 and MR-LBD. Furthermore, DML decreased aldosterone-induced MR transcriptional activity in a dose-dependent manner. Downregulation of MR with siRNA in the cells prevented or significantly attenuated aldosterone-stimulated expression of these genes, whereas DML did no longer affect the expression of these genes except that of IL-6. Oral administration of DML effectively reduced the levels of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) in db/db mice. The treatment also rectified the expression of pro-inflammatory factor and ROS-related genes in db/db mice.CONCLUSION: DML effectively lowers the blood glucose level in db/db mice possibly via ameliorating the expression of obesity-related pro-inflammatory cytokines, highlighting the potential of the marine natural product as a drug lead for the treatment of metabolic disorders.
Use of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) as a differentiation agent has been limited to acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) as non-APL leukemias are insensitive to ATRA. We recently demonstrated that the rexinoid, bexarotene, induces differentiation and therapeutic responses in patients with refractory AML. Rexinoids bind and activate retinoid X receptors (RXRs); however, rexinoids alone are incapable of activating retinoic acid receptor (RAR)/RXR complexes, suggesting that myeloid differentiation can occur independent of RAR. In this study, we demonstrate that rexinoid differentiation of AML cells is RAR independent and requires the expression of PU.1. Because of the promiscuousness of RXR with other nuclear receptors, myeloid differentiation by bexarotene with other nuclear receptor ligands was explored. Bexarotene cooperated with ATRA to enhance differentiation in some AML cell lines; however, the combination of bexarotene with the PPARγ agonist rosiglitazone did not. In contrast, bexarotene combined with liver X receptor (LXR) agonists, T0901317 or GW3965, induced potent differentiation and cytotoxicity in AML cell lines and primary human AML cells, but not in normal progenitor cells. These results suggest that RXR/LXR-regulated gene expression in normal cells is deregulated in AML cells and identifies a potential role for these agonists in differentiation therapy of non-APLs.
The CBA/H mouse model of radiation-induced acute myeloid leukaemia (rAML) has been studied for decades to bring to light the molecular mechanisms associated with multistage carcinogenesis. A specific interstitial deletion of chromosome 2 found in a high proportion of rAML is recognised as the initiating event. The deletion leads to the loss of Sfpi, a gene essential for haematopoietic development. Its product, the transcription factor PU.1 acts as a tumour suppressor in this model. Although the deletion can be detected early following ionising radiation exposure by cytogenetic techniques, precise characterisation of the haematopoietic cells carrying the deletion and the study of their fate in vivo cannot be achieved. Here, using a genetically engineered C57BL/6 mouse model expressing the GFP fluorescent molecule under the control of the Sfpi1 promoter, which we have bred onto the rAML-susceptible CBA/H strain, we demonstrate that GFP expression did not interfere with X-ray induced leukaemia incidence and that GFP fluorescence in live leukaemic cells is a surrogate marker of radiation-induced chromosome 2 deletions with or without point mutations on the remaining allele of the Sfpi1 gene. This study presents the first experimental evidence for the detection of this leukaemia initiating event in live leukemic cells.
MiR-424 plays an important role via promoting the monocytic differentiation in many human leukemia cell lines. Here, we report that miR-424 decreased miR-125b expression to 36 % by directly targeting caudal type homeobox 2. However, miR-424 also decreased expression of Fes, PU.1 and colony-stimulating factor receptor (MCSFR). As Fes, PU.1 and MCSFR were down-regulated by over-expression of miR-125b (unpublished work), a similar effect of miR-424 and Fes siRNA on CD64, Egr-1, Egr-2 and CEBPA indicates that Fes may be an important downstream target of miR-424. We hypothesize that miR-424 promotes monocytic differentiation by regulating other critical factors and miR-424 has high affinity for these factors. For the first time, the molecular mechanism of miR-424 during monocytic differentiation of U937 cells has been elucidated in this study.
A combination of state-of-the-art isotopic fingerprinting techniques and atmospheric transport modelling using real-time historical meteorological data has been used to demonstrate direct tropospheric transport of radioactive debris from specific nuclear detonations at the Semipalatinsk test site in Kazakhstan to Norway via large areas of Europe. A selection of archived air filters collected at ground level at 9 stations in Norway during the most intensive atmospheric nuclear weapon testing periods (1957-1958 and 1961-1962) has been screened for radioactive particles and analysed with respect to the concentrations and atom ratios of plutonium (Pu) and uranium (U) using accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS). Digital autoradiography screening demonstrated the presence of radioactive particles in the filters. Concentrations of (236)U (0.17-23nBqm(-3)) and (239+240)Pu (1.3-782μBqm(-3)) as well as the atom ratios (240)Pu/(239)Pu (0.0517-0.237) and (236)U/(239)Pu (0.0188-0.7) varied widely indicating several different sources. Filter samples from autumn and winter tended to have lower atom ratios than those sampled in spring and summer, and this likely reflects a tropospheric influence in months with little stratospheric fallout. Very high (236)U, (239+240)Pu and gross beta activity concentrations as well as low (240)Pu/(239)Pu (0.0517-0.077), (241)Pu/(239)Pu (0.00025-0.00062) and (236)U/(239)Pu (0.0188-0.046) atom ratios, characteristic of close-in and tropospheric fallout, were observed in filters collected at all stations in Nov 1962, 7-12days after three low-yield detonations at Semipalatinsk (Kazakhstan). Atmospheric transport modelling (NOAA HYSPLIT_4) using real-time meteorological data confirmed that long range transport of radionuclides, and possibly radioactive particles, from Semipalatinsk to Norway during this period was plausible. The present work shows that direct tropospheric transport of fallout from atmospheric nuclear detonations periodically may have had much larger influence on radionuclide air concentrations and deposition than previously anticipated.
"Master" transcription factors are the gatekeepers of lineage identity. As such, they have been a major focus of efforts to manipulate cell fate for therapeutic purposes. The ETS transcription factor PU.1 has a potent ability to confer macrophage phenotypes on cells already committed to a different lineage, but how it overcomes the presence of other master regulators is not known. The nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) is the master regulator of the adipose lineage, and its genomic binding pattern in adipocytes is well characterized. Here we show that, when expressed at macrophage levels in mature adipocytes, PU.1 bound a large fraction of its macrophage sites, where it induced chromatin opening and the expression of macrophage target genes. Strikingly, PU.1 markedly reduced the genomic binding of PPARγ without changing its abundance. PU.1 expression repressed genes with nearby adipocyte-specific PPARγ binding sites, while a common macrophage-adipocyte gene expression program was retained. Together, these data reveal unexpected lability within the adipocyte PPARγ cistrome and show that, even in terminally differentiated cells, PU.1 can remodel the cistrome of another master regulator.
Recognition and elimination of malignant cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes depends on antigenic peptides generated by proteasomes. It has been established that impairment of the immunoproteasome subunits, that is, PSMB8, PSMB9 and PSMB10 (PSMBs), is critical for malignant cells to escape immune recognition. We report here the regulatory mechanism of the repression of PU.1-dependent activation of PSMBs by PML/RARα in the pathogenesis of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and the unidentified function of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) as an immunomodulator in the treatment of APL. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays showed that PU.1 directly bound to and coordinately transactivated the promoters of PSMBs, indicating that PSMBs were transcriptional targets of PU.1 and PU.1 regulated their basal expression. Analysis of expression profiling data from a large population of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients revealed that the expression levels of PSMBs were significantly lower in APL patients than in non-APL AML patients. Further evidence demonstrated that the decrease in their expression was achieved through PML/RARα-mediated repression of both PU.1-dependent transactivation and PU.1 expression. Moreover, ATRA but not arsenic trioxide induced the expression of PSMBs in APL cells, indicating that ATRA treatment might activate the antigen-processing/presentation machinery. Finally, the above observations were confirmed in primary APL samples. Collectively, our data demonstrate that PML/RARα suppresses PU.1-dependent activation of the immunosubunits, which may facilitate the escape of APL cells from immune surveillance in leukemia development, and ATRA treatment is able to reactivate their expression, which would promote more efficient T-cell-mediated recognition in the treatment.
The development of novel technologies, such as massively parallel DNA sequencing, has led to the identification of several novel recurrent gene mutations, such as DNA methyltransferase (Dnmt)3a, ten-eleven-translocation oncogene family member 2 (TET2), isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)1/2, additional sex comb-like 1 (ASXL1), enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) and ubiquitously transcribed tetratricopeptide repeat X chromosome (UTX) mutations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and other myeloid malignancies. These findings strongly suggest a link between recurrent genetic alterations and aberrant epigenetic regulations, resulting from an abnormal DNA methylation and histone modification status. This review focuses on the current findings of aberrant epigenetic signatures by these newly described genetic alterations. Moreover, epigenetic aberrations resulting from transcription factor aberrations, such as mixed lineage leukemia (MLL) rearrangement, ecotropic viral integration site 1 (Evi1) overexpression, chromosomal translocations and the downregulation of PU.1 are also described.
PU.1 is an Ets family transcription factor involved in the myelo-lymphoid differentiation. We have previously demonstrated that PU.1 is also expressed in the adipocyte lineage. However, the expression levels of PU.1 mRNA and protein in preadipocytes do not match the levels in mature adipocytes. PU.1 mRNA level is higher in preadipocytes, whereas its protein is expressed in the adipocytes but not in the preadipocytes. The underlying mechanism remains elusive. Here, we find that miR-155 knockdown or overexpression has no effect on the levels of PU.1 mRNA and protein in preadipocytes or adipocytes. MiR-155 regulates adipogenesis not through PU.1, but via C/EBPβ which is another target of miR-155. We also checked the expression levels of PU.1 mRNA and antisense long non-coding RNA (AS lncRNA). Interestingly, compared with the level of PU.1 mRNA, the level of PU.1 AS lncRNA is much higher in preadipocytes, whereas it is opposite in the adipocytes. We further discover that PU.1 AS lncRNA binds to its mRNA forming an mRNA/AS lncRNA compound. The knockdown of PU.1 AS by siRNA inhibits adipogenesis and promotes PU.1 protein expression in both preadipocytes and adipocytes. Furthermore, the repression of PU.1 AS decreases the expression and secretion of adiponectin. We also find that the effect of retroviral-mediated PU.1 AS knockdown on adipogenesis is consistent with that of PU.1 AS knockdown by siRNA. Taken together, our results suggest that PU.1 AS lncRNA promotes adipogenesis through preventing PU.1 mRNA translation via binding to PU.1 mRNA to form mRNA/AS lncRNA duplex in preadipocytes.
The development of macrophages is a highly regulated process requiring coordination amongst transcription factors. The presence/absence, relative levels, antagonism, or synergy of all transcription factors involved is critical to directing lineage cell fate and differentiation. While relative levels of many key myeloid transcription factors have been determined in mammalian macrophage differentiation, a similar set of studies have yet to be conducted in a teleost system. In this study, we report on the mRNA levels of transcription factors (cebpa, cjun, cmyb, egr1, gata1, gata2, gata3, lmo2, mafb, pax5, pu.1 and runx1) in sorted goldfish progenitor cells, monocytes, and macrophages from primary kidney macrophage cultures. The mRNA levels of runx1 and pu.1 were significantly higher, gata3 and pax5 mRNA levels were lower, in monocytes compared to progenitors, and the mRNA levels of cjun, egr1, gata2, gata3, mafb and pax5 were significantly decreased in macrophages compared to progenitor cells. The relative mRNA levels of the interferon regulatory factor family of transcription factors, irf1, irf2, irf5, irf7, irf8 and irf9 in sorted progenitors, monocytes and macrophages were also measured. In contrast to other irf family transcription factors examined, irf8 mRNA levels were increased in monocytes compared to progenitors by greater than three-fold, suggesting that irf8 is important for monopoiesis. Lastly, we show the differential regulation of myeloid transcription factor mRNA levels in sorted progenitor cells from 1, 2, or 3-day old cultures in response to the recombinant goldfish growth factors, rgCSF-1 and rgKITLA.
Whether signals mediated via growth factor receptors (GFRs) might influence lineage fate in multipotent progenitors (MPPs) is unclear. We explored this issue in a mouse knockin model of gain-of-function Flt3-ITD mutation because FLT3-ITDs are paradoxically restricted to acute myeloid leukemia even though Flt3 primarily promotes lymphoid development during normal hematopoiesis. When expressed in MPPs, Flt3-ITD collaborated with Runx1 mutation to induce high-penetrance aggressive leukemias that were exclusively of the myeloid phenotype. Flt3-ITDs preferentially expanded MPPs with reduced lymphoid and increased myeloid transcriptional priming while compromising early B and T lymphopoiesis. Flt3-ITD-induced myeloid lineage bias involved upregulation of the transcription factor Pu.1, which is a direct target gene of Stat3, an aberrantly activated target of Flt3-ITDs, further establishing how lineage bias can be inflicted on MPPs through aberrant GFR signaling. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into how oncogenic mutations might subvert the normal process of lineage commitment and dictate the phenotype of resulting malignancies.
The transcription factor IRF4 regulates immunoglobulin class switch recombination and plasma cell differentiation. Its differing concentrations appear to regulate mutually antagonistic programs of B and plasma cell gene expression. We show IRF4 to be also required for generation of germinal center (GC) B cells. Its transient expression in vivo induced the expression of key GC genes including Bcl6 and Aicda. In contrast, sustained and higher concentrations of IRF4 promoted the generation of plasma cells while antagonizing the GC fate. IRF4 cobound with the transcription factors PU.1 or BATF to Ets or AP-1 composite motifs, associated with genes involved in B cell activation and the GC response. At higher concentrations, IRF4 binding shifted to interferon sequence response motifs; these enriched for genes involved in plasma cell differentiation. Our results support a model of "kinetic control" in which signaling-induced dynamics of IRF4 in activated B cells control their cell-fate outcomes.
Exposure to ionising radiation can lead to an increased risk of cancer, particularly leukaemia. In radiation-induced acute myeloid leukaemia (rAML), a partial hemizygous deletion of mouse chromosome 2 is a common feature in several susceptible strains. The deletion is an early event detectable 24h after exposure in bone marrow cells using cytogenetic techniques. Expanding clones of bone marrow cells with chromosome 2 deletions can be detected less than a year after exposure to ionising radiation in around half of the irradiated mice. Ultimately, 15-25% of exposed animals develop AML. It is generally assumed that leukaemia originates in an early progenitor cell or haematopoietic stem cell, but it is unknown whether the original chromosome damage occurs at a similar frequency in committed progenitors and stem cells. In this study, we monitored the frequency of chromosome 2 deletions in immature bone marrow cells (Lin(-)) and haematopoietic stem cells/multipotent progenitor cells (LSK) by several techniques, fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) and through use of a reporter gene model, flow cytometry and colony forming units in spleen (CFU-S) following ex vivo or in vivo exposure. We showed that partial chromosome 2 deletions are present in the LSK subpopulation, but cannot be detected in Lin(-) cells and CFU-S12 cells. Furthermore, we transplanted irradiated Lin(-) or LSK cells into host animals to determine whether specific irradiated cell populations acquire an increased proliferative advantage compared to unirradiated cells. Interestingly, the irradiated LSK subpopulation containing cells carrying chromosome 2 deletions does not appear to repopulate as well as the unirradiated population, suggesting that the chromosomal deletion does not provide an advantage for growth and in vivo repopulation, at least at early stages following occurrence.
The transcription factor PU.1 is crucial for the development of many hematopoietic lineages and its binding patterns significantly change during differentiation processes. However, the 'rules' for binding or not-binding of potential binding sites are only partially understood. To unveil basic characteristics of PU.1 binding site selection in different cell types, we studied the binding properties of PU.1 during human macrophage differentiation. Using in vivo and in vitro binding assays, as well as computational prediction, we show that PU.1 selects its binding sites primarily based on sequence affinity, which results in the frequent autonomous binding of high affinity sites in DNase I inaccessible regions (25-45% of all occupied sites). Increasing PU.1 concentrations and the availability of cooperative transcription factor interactions during lineage differentiation both decrease affinity thresholds for in vivo binding and fine-tune cell type-specific PU.1 binding, which seems to be largely independent of DNA methylation. Occupied sites were predominantly detected in active chromatin domains, which are characterized by higher densities of PU.1 recognition sites and neighboring motifs for cooperative transcription factors. Our study supports a model of PU.1 binding control that involves motif-binding affinity, PU.1 concentration, cooperativeness with neighboring transcription factor sites and chromatin domain accessibility, which likely applies to all PU.1 expressing cells.
In innate immune system cells, such as macrophages and dendritic cells, deployment of inducible gene expression programmes in response to microbes and danger signals requires highly precise regulatory mechanisms. The inflammatory response has to be tailored based on both the triggering stimulus and its dose, and it has to be unfolded in a kinetically complex manner that suits the different phases of the inflammatory process. Genomic characterization of regulatory elements in this context indicated that transcriptional regulators involved in macrophage specification act as pioneer transcription factors (TFs) that generate regions of open chromatin that enable the recruitment of TFs activated in response to external inputs. Therefore, competence for responses to a specific stimulus is programmed at an early stage of differentiation by factors involved in lineage commitment and maintenance of cell identity, which are responsible for the organization of a cell-type-specific cis-regulatory repertoire. The basic functional and organizational principles that regulate inflammatory gene expression in professional cells of the innate immune system provide general paradigms on the interplay between differentiation and environmental responses.
Microglia are resident macrophages of the central nervous system (CNS) that display high functional similarities to other tissue macrophages. However, it is especially important to create and maintain an intact tissue homeostasis to support the neuronal cells, which are very sensitive even to minor changes in their environment. The transition from the "resting" but surveying microglial phenotype to an activated stage is tightly regulated by several intrinsic (e.g., Runx-1, Irf8, and Pu.1) and extrinsic factors (e.g., CD200, CX3CR1, and TREM2). Under physiological conditions, minor changes of those factors are sufficient to cause fatal dysregulation of microglial cell homeostasis and result in severe CNS pathologies. In this review, we discuss recent achievements that gave new insights into mechanisms that ensure microglia quiescence.
Previous studies have identified a positive correlation between the intake of n‑3 fatty acids and bone mineral density in postmenopausal women. The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of fish oil on bone metabolism and to investigate the underlying mechanism using ovariectomized rats. Ovariectomized or sham‑operated (sham) female rats were fed AIN‑76A‑based diets containing 5% corn or fish oil for 2 weeks. Fish oil was found to decrease the plasma levels of arachidonic and linoleic acids, but increased the levels of eicosapentaenoic (EPA) and docosahexaenoic (DHA) acids. Fish oil reversed the increased activity and number of osteoclasts, and decreased calcium (Ca) and hydroxyproline (Hyp) content of the proximal tibia to sham values without affecting the activity or number of osteoblasts. In addition, fish oil suppressed increases in the mRNA and protein levels of macrophage colony‑stimulating factor (M‑CSF), PU.1, microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), receptor for activation of NFκB (RANK) and RANK ligand (RANKL) and serum levels of tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα), interleukin‑6 (IL-6) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Fish oil was also found to suppress NFκB activation induced by ovariectomy. These results indicate that increases in plasma n‑3 fatty acid levels by fish oil led to the suppression of NFκB activation and subsequent downregulation of TNFα, followed by suppression of M‑CSF and RANKL. Dietary fish oil suppressed ovariectomy‑stimulated osteoclastogenesis by inhibiting the expression of M‑CSF, PU.1, MITF and RANK in the early stages of osteoclastogenesis, upstream of RANKL signaling.
Dendritic cells (DCs) are essential regulators of immune responses; however, transcriptional mechanisms that establish DC lineage commitment are poorly defined. Here, we report that the PU.1 transcription factor induces specific remodeling of the higher-order chromatin structure at the interferon regulatory factor 8 (Irf8) gene to initiate DC fate choice. An Irf8 reporter mouse enabled us to pinpoint an initial progenitor stage at which DCs separate from other myeloid lineages in the bone marrow. In the absence of Irf8, this progenitor undergoes DC-to-neutrophil reprogramming, indicating that DC commitment requires an active, Irf8-dependent escape from alternative myeloid lineage potential. Mechanistically, myeloid Irf8 expression depends on high PU.1 levels, resulting in local chromosomal looping and activation of a lineage- and developmental-stage-specific cis-enhancer. These data delineate PU.1 as a concentration-dependent rheostat of myeloid lineage selection by controlling long-distance contacts between regulatory elements and suggest that specific higher-order chromatin remodeling at the Irf8 gene determines DC differentiation.
Despite recent insights gained from the effects of targeted deletion of the Finkel-Biskis-Jinkins osteosarcoma oncogene (c-fos), Spleen focus-forming virus (SFFV) proviral integration 1 (PU.1), microphthalmia-associated transcription factor, NF-κB, and nuclear factor of activated cells cytoplasmic 1 (NFATc1) transcription factor genes, the mechanism underlying transcription factors specifying osteoclast (OC) lineage commitment from monocyte/macrophage remains unclear. To characterize the mechanism by which transcription factors regulate OC lineage commitment, we mapped the critical cis-regulatory element in the promoter of cathepsin K (Ctsk), which is expressed specifically in OCs, and found that CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α (C/EBPα) is the critical cis-regulatory element binding protein. Our results indicate that C/EBPα is highly expressed in pre- OCs and OCs. The combined presence of macrophage colony-stimulating factor and receptor activator of NF-κB ligand significantly induces high C/EBPα expression. Furthermore, C/EBPα(-/-) newborn mice exhibited impaired osteoclastogenesis, and a severe osteopetrotic phenotype, but unaffected monocyte/macrophage development. Impaired osteoclastogenesis of C/EBPα(-/-) mouse bone marrow cells can be rescued by c-fos overexpression. Ectopic expression of C/EBPα in mouse bone marrow cells and monocyte/macrophage cells, in the absence of receptor activator of NF-κB ligand, induces expression of receptor activator of NF-κB, c-fos, Nfatc1, and Ctsk, and it reprograms monocyte/macrophage cells to OC-like cells. Our results demonstrate that C/EBPα directly up-regulates c-fos expression. C/EBPα(+/-) mice exhibit an increase in bone density compared with C/EBPα(+/+) controls. These discoveries establish C/EBPα as the key transcriptional regulator of OC lineage commitment, providing a unique therapeutic target for diseases of excessive bone resorption, such as osteoporosis and arthritis.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2013 May;13(5):304.    Curr Biol. 2013 Aug 5;23(15):R662-5.
Developmental processes, like blood formation, are orchestrated by transcriptional networks. Those transcriptional networks are highly responsive to various environmental stimuli and affect common precursors resulting in increased production of cells of the erythroid lineage or myeloid lineage (granulocytes, neutrophils, and macrophages). A significant body of knowledge has accumulated describing transcription factors that drive differentiation of these two major cellular pathways, in particular the antagonistic master regulators such as GATA-1 and PU.1. However, little is known about factors that work upstream of master regulators to enhance differentiation toward one lineage. These functions become especially important under various stress conditions like sudden loss of red blood cells or pathogen infection. This review describes recent studies that begin to provide evidence for such factors. An increased understanding of factors regulating cellular commitment will advance our understanding of the etiology of diseases like anemia, cancer, and possibly other blood related disorders.
BACKGROUND: Amplification of MYCN (N-Myc) oncogene has been reported as a frequent event and a poor prognostic marker in human acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The molecular mechanisms and transcriptional networks by which MYCN exerts its influence in AML are largely unknown.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We introduced murine MYCN gene into embryonic zebrafish through a heat-shock promoter and established the stable germline Tg(MYCN:HSE:EGFP) zebrafish. N-Myc downstream regulated gene 1 (NDRG1), negatively controlled by MYCN in human and functionally involved in neutrophil maturation, was significantly under-expressed in this model. Using peripheral blood smear detection, histological section and flow cytometric analysis of single cell suspension from kidney and spleen, we found that MYCN overexpression promoted cell proliferation, enhanced the repopulating activity of myeloid cells and the accumulation of immature hematopoietic blast cells. MYCN enhanced primitive hematopoiesis by upregulating scl and lmo2 expression and promoted myelopoiesis by inhibiting gata1 expression and inducing pu.1, mpo expression. Microarray analysis identified that cell cycle, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, MAPK/Ras, and p53-mediated apoptosis pathways were upregulated. In addition, mismatch repair, transforming and growth factor β (TGFβ) were downregulated in MYCN-overexpressing blood cells (p<0.01). All of these signaling pathways are critical in the proliferation and malignant transformation of blood cells.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: The above results induced by overexpression of MYCN closely resemble the main aspects of human AML, suggesting that MYCN plays a role in the etiology of AML. MYCN reprograms hematopoietic cell fate by regulating NDRG1 and several lineage-specific hematopoietic transcription factors. Therefore, this MYCN transgenic zebrafish model facilitates dissection of MYCN-mediated signaling in vivo, and enables high-throughput scale screens to identify the potential therapeutic targets.
BACKGROUND: Transcription factor PU.1, a member of the ETS family, is a master regulator of myeloid differentiation whose functional disruption is often associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Although much has been learned about PU.1 over the past decades, relatively little is known about cis-elements that interact with this factor under physiological or pathological conditions, especially in the whole-genome scale. We aimed to define the cistrome of PU.1 in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cells and characterize the cis-elements bound by PU.1.METHODS: Chromatin immunoprecipitation with specific antibody coupled with deep sequencing (ChIP-seq) was used to investigate the in vivo PU.1 binding sites at the whole-genome scale in APL-derived NB4 cells. The ChIP-quantitative (q)-PCR and luciferase reporter assays were used to validate the binding events and trans-activity, respectively. Various computational analyses, including motif mining, evolutionary conservation analysis and functional enrichment analysis, were performed to characterize the cis-elements that interacted with PU.1.RESULTS: A total of 26,907 significantly enriched binding regions of PU.1 were identified under the false discovery rate 0.1% in NB4 cells. PU.1 bound to various types of genomic regions and acted as a promoter-enhancer dual binding transcription factor. Based on the sequence length and composition, two types of representative motifs were identified in PU.1 binding sites: a long and a short motif. The long motif, characterized by high sequence specificity and binding affinity, predominantly resided in the promoter-distal regions. In contrast, the short one, with strong evolutionary constraint, represented the primary PU.1 cis-elements in the promoter-proximal regions. Interestingly, the short one showed more preference to be correlated with the binding of other factors, especially PML/RARα. Moreover, genes targeted by both PU.1 and PML/RARα were significantly involved in categories associated with oncogenesis, hematopoiesis and the pathogenesis of acute myeloid leukemia.CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that structurally differentiated cis-elements that interact with PU.1 are functionally distinguishable in APL, suggesting that the sequence diversity of cis-elements might be a critical mechanism by which cells interpret the genome, and contribute to distinct physiological and/or pathological function.
In response to severe bacterial infection, bone marrow hematopoietic activity shifts toward promoting granulopoiesis. The underlying cell signaling mechanisms remain obscure. To study the role of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/stem cell antigen-1 (Sca-1) signaling in this process, bacteremia was induced in mice by intravenous injection of Escherichia coli. A subgroup of animals also received intravenous 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU). In a separate set of experiments, bone marrow lineage-negative (lin(-)) stem cell growth factor receptor-positive (c-kit(+)) Sca-1(-) cells containing primarily common myeloid progenitors were cultured in vitro without or with E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In genotypic background control mice, bacteremia significantly upregulated Sca-1 expression by lin(-) c-kit(+) cells, as reflected by a marked increase in BrdU-negative lin(-) c-kit(+) Sca-1(+) cells in the bone marrow. In mice with the TLR4 gene deletion, this bacteremia-evoked Sca-1 response was blocked. In vitro, LPS induced a dose-dependent increase in Sca-1 expression by cultured marrow lin(-) c-kit(+) Sca-1(-) cells. LPS-induced upregulation of Sca-1 expression was regulated at the transcriptional level. Inhibition of c-Jun N-terminal kinase/stress-activated protein kinase (JNK) activity with the specific inhibitor SP600125 suppressed LPS-induced upregulation of Sca-1 expression by marrow lin(-) c-kit(+) Sca-1(-) cells. Engagement of Sca-1 with anti-Sca-1 antibodies enhanced the expression of Sfpi1 spleen focus-forming virus (SFFV) proviral integration 1 (PU.1) in marrow lin(-) c-kit(+) Sca-1(-) cells cultured with LPS. Sca-1 null mice failed to maintain the marrow pool of granulopoietic cells following bacteremia. These results demonstrate that TLR4/Sca-1 signaling plays an important role in the regulation of hematopoietic precursor cell programming and their enhancement of granulocyte lineage commitment in response to E. coli bacteremia.
BACKGROUND: Epidermal Langerhans cells (LC) expressing the high-affinity receptor for IgE (FcεRI) play a key role in atopic dermatitis (AD). AD skin is highly colonized with Staphylococcus aureus (S.a.), which are sensed by Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). We hypothesized that TLR2 may impact on the expression of FcεRI on LC.OBJECTIVES: To study a putative impact of TLR2 signaling on FcεRI, we analyzed FcεRI and known transcription factors of the receptor after ligand binding to TLR2.METHODS: We generated LC from CD34(+) progenitors in vitro (CD34LC) expressing FcεRI and TLR2 as well as its partners TLR1 and TLR6. The expression of FcεRI and known transcription factors of the receptor was analyzed on the protein and RNA level by flow cytometry, Western blotting, and real-time PCR.RESULTS: For CD34LC from 123 donors, we observed a high heterogeneity in FcεRI surface expression correlating with mRNA level of its α-chain. Stimulation of TLR1/2 or TLR2/6 dramatically down-regulated FcεRI on protein and mRNA level of both α- and γ-chain. Further analysis of putative transcription factors for FCER1A revealed the lack of GATA1 in CD34LC, weak expression of ELF1 and YY1, and high expression of PU.1. While ELF1 and YY1 appeared to be little affected by TLR2 engagement, PU.1 was significantly down-regulated.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our findings show that in human, LC ligation of TLR2 by S.a.-derived products down-regulates FcεRI and its transcription factor PU.1, thus suggesting that FcεRI is controlled by PU.1 in these cells.
We investigated the role of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) in suppression of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-mediated differentiation of leukemic promyelocytes. In NB4 and HL60 cell lines, BMPs reduced the percentage of differentiated cells, and suppressed PU.1 and C/EBPε gene expression induced by ATRA. BMP and ATRA synergized in the induction of ID genes, causing suppression of differentiation. In primary acute promyelocytic leukemia bone-marrow samples, positive correlation of PML/RARα and negative of RARα with the expression of BMP-4, BMP-6 and ID genes were found. We concluded that BMPs may have oncogenic properties and mediate ATRA resistance by a mechanism that involves ID genes.
Th9 cells are a novel Th cell subset that produces IL-9 and is involved in type I hypersensitivity such as airway inflammation. Although its critical roles in asthma have attracted interest, the physiological regulatory mechanisms of Th9 cell differentiation and function are largely unknown. Asthma is easily affected by psychological factors. Therefore, we investigated one of the physiological mediators derived from the nervous system, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), in asthma and Th9 cells because CGRP and activation of the cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) pathway by CGRP are known to be important regulators in several immune responses and allergic diseases. In this study, we demonstrated that the CGRP/cAMP/PKA pathway promotes IL-9 production via NFATc2 activation by PKA-dependent glycogen synthase kinase-3β inactivation. Moreover, CGRP also induces the expression of PU.1, a critical transcriptional factor in Th9 cells, which depends on PKA, but not NFATc2. Additionally, we demonstrated the physiological importance of CGRP in IL-9 production and Th9 differentiation using an OVA-induced airway inflammation model and T cell-specific CGRP receptor-deficient mice. The present study revealed a novel regulatory mechanism comprising G protein-coupled receptor ligands and nervous system-derived substances in Th9 cell differentiation and type I hypersensitivity.
MicroRNAs (miRs) have emerged as critical modulators of immune responses, but little is known about their transcriptional regulation and tissue specificity. miR-142 is specifically expressed in hematopoietic tissues and plays an important role in regulating immunity. In this study we identified the key transcriptional elements for regulation of miR-142 and its impact on TLR4-mediated expression of IL-6. The PU.1, C/EBPβ, and Runx1 transcription factor binding sites are conserved and constitutively occupied by the respective transcription factors in the miR-142 gene promoter only in the hematopoietic cells. Specific knockdown experiments in hematopoietic cells and rescue experiments in nonhematopoietic cells show that PU.1 is critical for miR-142 gene expression and that it synergizes with Runx1, C/EBPβ, and CBFβ. Furthermore, TLR4 stimulation enhanced miR-155 whereas experiments with knockdown and mimic expression of miR-155 demonstrated that miR-155 negatively regulates miR-142-3p expression by targeting PU.1. Thus, TLR4 stimulation represses PU.1, resulting in downregulation of miR-142 and increased expression of IL-6. These results collectively reveal the direct cis-acting sequences of miR-142 specific promoter and that transcription factor PU.1 is necessary for its exclusive expression in hematopoietic cells and regulation of IL-6.
We recently demonstrated that metallothionein (MT)-1 A is a direct target gene negatively regulated by PU.1. In this study, we revealed that the expression of PU.1 was increased and accompanied by downregulation of MT-1A expression during TPA-induced THP-1 monocyte differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis demonstrated that PU.1 and the methyl CpG binding protein (MeCP) 2 bound to the same -887 to -602 region in the MT-1A promoter, and the binding of these proteins to this promoter was enhanced during differentiation. Consistently, bisulfite sequencing analyses around this region revealed that the proportion of methylated CpG sites was obivously increased during differentiation. In addition, ChIP analysis demonstrated that acetylated histone H4 around this region tended to be reduced and this may also play a role in the reduction of MT-1A expression during differentiation. Taken together, these findings suggest that MT-1A is epigenetically regulated by PU.1 during monocytic differentiation.
Microglia are the predominant resident immune cells of the brain and can assume a range of phenotypes. They are critical for normal brain development and function but can also contribute to many disease processes. Although they are widely studied, the transcriptional control of microglial phenotype and activation requires further research. PU.1 is a key myeloid transcription factor expressed by peripheral macrophages and rodent microglia. In this article, we report the presence of PU.1 specifically in microglia of the adult human brain and we examine its functional role in primary human microglia. Using siRNA, we achieved substantial PU.1 protein knock-down in vitro. By assessing a range of characteristic microglial proteins we found decreased viability of adult human microglia with reduced PU.1 protein expression. This observation was confirmed with PU.1 antisense DNA oligonucleotides. An important function of microglia is to clear debris by phagocytosis. We assessed the impact of loss of PU.1 on microglial phagocytosis and show that PU.1 siRNA reduces the ability of adult human microglia to phagocytose amyloid-beta1-42 peptide. These results show that PU.1 controls human microglial viability and function and suggest PU.1 as a molecular target for manipulation of human microglial phenotype.
Hematopoiesis is a classic system with which to study developmental potentials and to investigate gene regulatory networks that control choices among alternate lineages. T-cell progenitors seeding the thymus retain several lineage potentials. The transcription factor PU.1 is involved in the decision to become a T cell or a myeloid cell, and the developmental outcome of expressing PU.1 is dependent on exposure to Notch signaling. PU.1-expressing T-cell progenitors without Notch signaling often adopt a myeloid program, whereas those exposed to Notch signals remain in a T-lineage pathway. Here, we show that Notch signaling does not alter PU.1 transcriptional activity by degradation/alteration of PU.1 protein. Instead, Notch signaling protects against the downregulation of T-cell factors so that a T-cell transcriptional network is maintained. Using an early T-cell line, we describe two branches of this network. The first involves inhibition of E-proteins by PU.1 and the resulting inhibition of Notch signaling target genes. Effects of E-protein inhibition can be reversed by exposure to Notch signaling. The second network is dependent on the ability of PU.1 to inhibit important T-cell transcription factor genes such as Myb, Tcf7 and Gata3 in the absence of Notch signaling. We show that maintenance of Gata3 protein levels by Myb and Notch signaling is linked to the ability to retain T-cell identity in response to PU.1.
Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) is essential for differentiation from hematopoietic precursor cells into osteoclasts. M-CSF transiently increased the intracellular level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) through an NADPH oxidase (Nox) and induced the expression of receptor for activation of nuclear factor-κB (RANK) in early-stage osteoclast precursor cells (c-fms+RANK-). Blocking of the activity of Nox with diphenylene iodonium inhibited ROS production, activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and the expression of RANK, PU.1 and MITF. The suppression of Nox2, but not Nox1, expression by RNA interference inhibited ROS production and RANK expression. These results suggested that ROS produced in response to M-CSF via a process mediated by Nox2 acted as an intracellular signaling mediator for RANK expression through the activation of ERK and the expression of PU.1 and MITF in early-stage osteoclast precursor cells.
The oxygen to metal ratio (O/M) is directly related to oxygen potential, which strongly influences the sintering and irradiation performance of nuclear fuels. A better understanding of these two parameters is therefore of major interest. To further ascertain the correlation between O/M ratio and oxygen potential in Am-bearing MOX, several thermodynamic descriptions are being developed. Despite their differences, they all involve the valence of actinide cations (e.g., U, Pu, and Am) as essential parameters. However, as no experimental data on their valence are available, these models rely on assumptions. In the present work, we coupled X-ray diffraction and X-ray absorption spectroscopy to follow the behavior of Pu and Am in three hypo-stoichiometric, U-free Pu(1-y)Am(y)O(2-x) compounds. We provide for the first time a quantitative determination of Pu and Am valences, demonstrating that plutonium reduction from Pu(4+) to Pu(3+) starts only when americium reduction from Am(4+) to Am(3+) is completed. This result fills in an important gap in experimental data, thereby improving the thermodynamic description of nuclear fuels. At last, we suggest that the O/M ratio may evolve at room temperature, especially for high Am content, which is of main concern for the fabrication of Am-loaded MOX and their storage prior to irradiation.
Monocytic leukemia zinc finger (MOZ)/KAT6A is a MOZ, Ybf2/Sas3, Sas2, Tip60 (MYST)-type histone acetyltransferase that functions as a coactivator for acute myeloid leukemia 1 protein (AML1)- and Ets family transcription factor PU.1-dependent transcription. We previously reported that MOZ directly interacts with p53 and is essential for p53-dependent selective regulation of p21 expression. We show here that MOZ is an acetyltransferase of p53 at K120 and K382 and colocalizes with p53 in promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies following cellular stress. The MOZ-PML-p53 interaction enhances MOZ-mediated acetylation of p53, and this ternary complex enhances p53-dependent p21 expression. Moreover, we identified an Akt/protein kinase B recognition sequence in the PML-binding domain of MOZ protein. Akt-mediated phosphorylation of MOZ at T369 has a negative effect on complex formation between PML and MOZ. As a result of PML-mediated suppression of Akt, the increased PML-MOZ interaction enhances p21 expression and induces p53-dependent premature senescence upon forced PML expression. Our research demonstrates that MOZ controls p53 acetylation and transcriptional activity via association with PML.
BACKGROUND: The production of human platelets from embryonic stem cells in a defined culture system is a prerequisite for the generation of platelets for therapeutic use. As an important step towards this goal, we report the differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) towards the megakaryocyte (Mk) lineage using a 'spin embryoid body' method in serum-free differentiation medium.METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Immunophenotypic analyses of differentiating hESC identified a subpopulation of cells expressing high levels of CD41a that expressed other markers associated with the Mk lineage, including CD110, CD42b and CD61. Differentiated cells were sorted on the basis of their expression of CD41a, CD34 and CD45 and assessed for Mk colony formation, expression of myeloid and Mk genes and ability to endoreplicate DNA. In a collagen-based colony assay, the CD41a⁺ cells sorted from these differentiation cultures produced 100-800 Mk progenitors at day 13 and 25-160 Mk progenitors at day 20 of differentiation per 100,000 cells assayed. Differentiated Mk cells produced platelet-like particles which expressed CD42b and were activated by ADP, similar to platelets generated from precursors in cord blood. These studies were complemented by real time PCR analyses showing that subsets of cells enriched for CD41a⁺ Mk precursors expressed high levels of Mk associated genes such as PF4 and MPL. Conversely, high levels of myeloid and erythroid related transcripts, such as GATA1, TAL1/SCL and PU.1, were detected in sorted fractions containing CD34⁺ and CD45⁺ cells.CONCLUSIONS: We describe a serum- and feeder-free culture system that enabled the generation of Mk progenitors from human embryonic stem cells. These cells formed colonies that included differentiated Mks that fragmented to form platelet-like particles. This protocol represents an important step towards the generation of human platelets for therapeutic use.
A DNA oligo-microarray enriched in genes and involved in inflammatory and immune responses was used to evaluate the effects of resveratrol on gene expression in turbot head kidney leucocytes. Leucocytes were cultured for 3, 6 and 24 h, in the presence or absence of resveratrol, or were stimulated with the membrane fraction of the parasite Philasterides dicentrarchi or with the membrane plus resveratrol. Gene expression changed considerably in control cells, and several of the regulated genes were related to inflammatory and immune responses and to the cytoskeleton. Similar changes in gene expression occurred in control cells and in cells stimulated with P. dicentrarchi membrane fraction. Treatment with resveratrol induced changes in the expression (mostly down-regulation) of several genes involved in immune responses and inflammation. Thus, the down-regulation of the transcription factor PU.1, pentraxin-multidomain protein, heme oxygenase 1, S100 calcium-binding protein A-16 (S100A16) and the signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 was observed after all three incubation times. The down-regulation of the suppressor of cytokine signalling 3a, LPS-induced tumour necrosis alpha, hepcidin, metallothionein, TLR8 and the calcium dependent lectin A was observed after 3 and 6 h. Resveratrol also decreased the expression of CCL20, IL-8, apolipoprotein E and glutathione S-transferase after incubation for 6 and 24 h, and of TNF-α after incubation for 3 and 24 h. Resveratrol also induced strong regulation of several cytoskeleton-related genes. The use of the turbot oligo-microarray enabled us to discover genes whose expression was not previously suspected of being modulated by this polyphenol.
Members of the ETS family of transcription factors regulate a functionally diverse array of genes. All ETS proteins share a structurally conserved but sequence-divergent DNA-binding domain, known as the ETS domain. Although the structure and thermodynamics of the ETS-DNA complexes are well known, little is known about the kinetics of sequence recognition, a facet that offers potential insight into its molecular mechanism. We have characterized DNA binding by the ETS domain of PU.1 by biosensor-surface plasmon resonance (SPR). SPR analysis revealed a striking kinetic profile for DNA binding by the PU.1 ETS domain. At low salt concentrations, it binds high-affinity cognate DNA with a very slow association rate constant (≤10(5)M(-)(1)s(-)(1)), compensated by a correspondingly small dissociation rate constant. The kinetics are strongly salt dependent but mutually balance to produce a relatively weak dependence in the equilibrium constant. This profile contrasts sharply with reported data for other ETS domains (e.g., Ets-1, TEL) for which high-affinity binding is driven by rapid association (>10(7)M(-)(1)s(-)(1)). We interpret this difference in terms of the hydration properties of ETS-DNA binding and propose that at least two mechanisms of sequence recognition are employed by this family of DNA-binding domain. Additionally, we use SPR to demonstrate the potential for pharmacological inhibition of sequence-specific ETS-DNA binding, using the minor groove-binding distamycin as a model compound. Our work establishes SPR as a valuable technique for extending our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of ETS-DNA interactions as well as developing potential small-molecule agents for biotechnological and therapeutic purposes.
Comment in    Epigenomics. 2013;5(5):482.
To provide a lifelong supply of blood cells, hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) need to carefully balance both self-renewing cell divisions and quiescence. Although several regulators that control this mechanism have been identified, we demonstrate that the transcription factor PU.1 acts upstream of these regulators. So far, attempts to uncover PU.1's role in HSC biology have failed because of the technical limitations of complete loss-of-function models. With the use of hypomorphic mice with decreased PU.1 levels specifically in phenotypic HSCs, we found reduced HSC long-term repopulation potential that could be rescued completely by restoring PU.1 levels. PU.1 prevented excessive HSC division and exhaustion by controlling the transcription of multiple cell-cycle regulators. Levels of PU.1 were sustained through autoregulatory PU.1 binding to an upstream enhancer that formed an active looped chromosome architecture in HSCs. These results establish that PU.1 mediates chromosome looping and functions as a master regulator of HSC proliferation.
An important component of chronic neurodegenerative diseases is the generation of an innate inflammatory response within the CNS. Microglial and astroglial cells play a key role in the development and maintenance of this inflammatory response, showing enhanced proliferation and activation. We studied the time course and regulation of microglial proliferation, using a mouse model of prion disease. Our results show that the proliferation of resident microglial cells accounts for the expansion of the population during the development of the disease. We identify the pathway regulated by the activation of CSF1R and the transcription factors PU.1 and C/EBPα as the molecular regulators of the proliferative response, correlating with the chronic human neurodegenerative conditions variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and Alzheimer's disease. We show that targeting the activity of CSF1R inhibits microglial proliferation and slows neuronal damage and disease progression. Our results demonstrate that microglial proliferation is a major component in the evolution of chronic neurodegeneration, with direct implications for understanding the contribution of the CNS innate immune response to disease progression.
The S100a8 and S100a9 genes encode a pro-inflammatory protein (calgranulin) that has been implicated in multiple diseases. However, involvement of S100a8/a9 in the basic mechanisms of intrinsic aging has not been established. In this study, we show that shifts in the abundance of S100a8 and S100a9 mRNA are a robust feature of aging in mammalian tissues, involving a range of cell types including the central nervous system. To identify transcription factors that control S100a9 expression, we performed a large-scale transcriptome analysis of 62 mouse and human cell types. We identified cell type-specific trends, as well as robust associations linking S100a9 coexpression to elevated frequency of ETS family motifs, and in particular, to motifs recognized by the transcription factor SPI/PU.1. Sparse occurrence of SATB1 motifs was also a strong predictor of S100a9 coexpression. These findings offer support for a novel mechanism by which a SPI1/PU.1-S100a9 axis sustains chronic inflammation during aging.
Comment in    Blood. 2013 Jun 27;121(26):5250-2.    Blood. 2013 Jun 27;121(26):5252-3.
The anchoring and capturing roles of perfluorophenyl azide (PFPA) were combined to produce a universal polyurethane (PU)-derived photoactive surface platform (PU-1-PFPA). The resultant platform was confirmed by contact angle, attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared (ATR FT-IR) spectroscopy, atomic force microscopy (AFM) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analyses. Upon UV light activation, native heparin was coupled directly onto PU-1-PFPA to yield a substrate with antithrombogenic properties. The same level of antithrombogenic activity was achieved when the recovered heparin was photo-coupled onto PU-1-PFPA. In addition, at room temperature and in the absence of copper catalysts, PU-1-PFPA achieved oriented immobilization of functional moieties bearing an alkynyl functional group.
The adipokine leptin elicits changes in the expression of the activation markers CD40 and CD69 in PBMCs and DCs, yet its effect on PRRs remains to be elucidated. Serum leptin concentrations are elevated in obesity and T2DM, which are both diseases associated with a proinflammatory state. We therefore investigated a possible role for leptin in monocyte TLR and CD14 expression. Leptin increased TLR2 cell-surface and mRNA expression in THP-1 and primary human monocytes. In contrast, leptin had no effect on monocyte TLR4 expression in THP-1 or primary monocytes. CD14 cell-surface and mRNA expression were increased after leptin stimulation in THP-1 monocytes. However, no change in cell-surface CD14 expression was observed after leptin treatment in primary human monocytes. Leptin also up-regulated the expression of PU.1 and EGR2, transcription factors involved in myeloid cell differentiation. Additionally, leptin potentiated Escherichia coli and Porphyromonas gingivalis LPS-induced TNF-α secretion in THP-1 monocytes. In conclusion, we show that leptin and LPS differentially influence monocyte phenotype and demonstrate, for the first time, a regulatory effect of leptin on the monocyte expression of TLR2. Leptin-stimulated TLR2 expression may potentiate innate immunity and inflammation in conditions of hyperleptinemia, such as obesity and T2DM.
Comment in    Nat Neurosci. 2013 Mar;16(3):253-5.
Monocytes regulate host defenses, inflammation, and tissue homeostasis. The transcription factor interferon regulatory factor-8 (IRF8) stimulates monocyte/macrophage differentiation, yet genome-wide understanding of the differentiation program initiated by IRF8 is lacking. By combining chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing with gene expression profiling, we show that during IRF8-dependent monocyte differentiation, IRF8 binding occurs at both promoter-proximal and promotor-distal regions together with the transcription factor PU.1 and is associated with gene induction. Many of the promoter-distal IRF8 binding sites show an increase in histone H3 lysine 4 monomethylation, a signature for enhancers. However, about half the IRF8-induced genes were not bound by IRF8, suggesting the involvement of downstream transcription factors. Analysis of DNA motifs in cis-regulatory elements of these indirect IRF8 target genes predicted that Krüppel-like factor-4 (KLF4)-essential for Ly6C(+) monocyte development-is one such factor. Indeed, monocyte development in Irf8(-/-) mice is as defective as that in Klf4(-/-) chimeric mice. Moreover, Irf8(-/-) monocyte-dendritic cell progenitors do not express Klf4 messenger RNA. Introduction of KLF4 into an Irf8(-/-) myeloid progenitor cell line induced a subset of IRF8 target genes and caused partial monocyte differentiation. Taken together, our present results uncover genome-wide behavior of IRF8 and identify an IRF8-KLF4 axis that operates during monocyte differentiation.
Differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells to red cells requires coordinated expression of numerous erythroid genes and is characterized by nuclear condensation and extrusion during terminal development. To understand the regulatory mechanisms governing these widespread phenotypic changes, we conducted a high resolution methylomic and transcriptomic analysis of six major stages of human erythroid differentiation. We observed widespread epigenetic differences between early and late stages of erythropoiesis with progressive loss of methylation being the dominant change during differentiation. Gene bodies, intergenic regions, and CpG shores were preferentially demethylated during erythropoiesis. Epigenetic changes at transcription factor binding sites correlated significantly with changes in gene expression and were enriched for binding motifs for SCL, MYB, GATA, and other factors not previously implicated in erythropoiesis. Demethylation at gene promoters was associated with increased expression of genes, whereas epigenetic changes at gene bodies correlated inversely with gene expression. Important gene networks encoding erythrocyte membrane proteins, surface receptors, and heme synthesis proteins were found to be regulated by DNA methylation. Furthermore, integrative analysis enabled us to identify novel, potential regulatory areas of the genome as evident by epigenetic changes in a predicted PU.1 binding site in intron 1 of the GATA1 gene. This intronic site was found to be conserved across species and was validated to be a novel PU.1 binding site by quantitative ChIP in erythroid cells. Altogether, our study provides a comprehensive analysis of methylomic and transcriptomic changes during erythroid differentiation and demonstrates that human terminal erythropoiesis is surprisingly associated with hypomethylation of the genome.
Dendritic cells (DCs) regulate innate and acquired immunity through their roles as antigen-presenting cells. Specific subsets of mature DCs, including monocyte-derived and lymphoid-derived DCs, can be distinguished based on distinct immunophenotypes and functional properties. The leukocyte integrin, CD11c, is considered a specific marker for DCs and it is expressed by all DC subsets. We created a strain of mice in which DCs and their progenitors could be lineage traced based on activity of the CD11c proximal promoter. Surprisingly, we observed levels of CD11c promoter activity that were similar in DCs and in other mature leukocytes, including monocytes, granulocytes, and lymphocytes. We sought to identify DNA elements and transcription factors that regulate DC-associated expression of CD11c. The ets transcription factor, PU.1, is a key regulator of DC development, and expression of PU.1 varies in different DC subsets. GM-CSF increased monocyte-derived DCs in mice and from mouse bone marrow cultured in vitro, but it did not increase CD8(+) lymphoid-derived DCs or B220(+) plasmacytoid DCs. FLT3L increased both monocyte-derived DCs and lymphoid-derived DCs from mouse bone marrow cultured in vitro. GM-CSF increased the 5.3 Kb CD11c proximal promoter activity in monocyte-derived DCs and CD8(+) lymphoid-derived DCs, but not in B220(+) plasmacytoid DCs. In contrast, FLT3L increased the CD11c proximal promoter activity in both monocyte-derived DCs and B220(+) plasmacytoid DCs. We used shRNA gene knockdown and chromatin immunoprecipitation to demonstrate that PU.1 is required for the effects of GM-CSF or FLT3L on monocyte-derived DCs. We conclude that both GM-CSF and FLT3L act through PU.1 to activate the 5.3 Kb CD11c proximal promoter in DCs and to induce differentiation of monocyte-derived DCs. We also confirm that the CD11c proximal promoter is not sufficient to direct lineage specificity of CD11c expression, and that additional DNA elements are required for lineage-specific CD11c expression.
The molecular etiology of human progenitor reprogramming into self-renewing leukemia stem cells (LSC) has remained elusive. Although DNA sequencing has uncovered spliceosome gene mutations that promote alternative splicing and portend leukemic transformation, isoform diversity also may be generated by RNA editing mediated by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) enzymes that regulate stem cell maintenance. In this study, whole-transcriptome sequencing of normal, chronic phase, and serially transplantable blast crisis chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) progenitors revealed increased IFN-γ pathway gene expression in concert with BCR-ABL amplification, enhanced expression of the IFN-responsive ADAR1 p150 isoform, and a propensity for increased adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing during CML progression. Lentiviral overexpression experiments demonstrate that ADAR1 p150 promotes expression of the myeloid transcription factor PU.1 and induces malignant reprogramming of myeloid progenitors. Moreover, enforced ADAR1 p150 expression was associated with production of a misspliced form of GSK3β implicated in LSC self-renewal. Finally, functional serial transplantation and shRNA studies demonstrate that ADAR1 knockdown impaired in vivo self-renewal capacity of blast crisis CML progenitors. Together these data provide a compelling rationale for developing ADAR1-based LSC detection and eradication strategies.
scube1 (signal peptide-CUB (complement protein C1r/C1s, Uegf, and Bmp1)-EGF domain-containing protein 1), the founding member of a novel secreted and cell surface SCUBE protein family, is expressed predominantly in various developing tissues in mice. However, its function in primitive hematopoiesis remains unknown. In this study, we identified and characterized zebrafish scube1 and analyzed its function by injecting antisense morpholino-oligonucleotide into embryos. Whole-mount in situ hybridization revealed that zebrafish scube1 mRNA is maternally expressed and widely distributed during early embryonic development. Knockdown of scube1 by morpholino-oligonucleotide down-regulated the expression of marker genes associated with early primitive hematopoietic precursors (scl) and erythroid (gata1 and hbbe1), as well as early (pu.1) and late (mpo and l-plastin) myelomonocytic lineages. However, the expression of an early endothelial marker fli1a and vascular morphogenesis appeared normal in scube1 morphants. Overexpression of bone morphogenetic protein (bmp) rescued the expression of scl in the posterior lateral mesoderm during early primitive hematopoiesis in scube1 morphants. Biochemical and molecular analysis revealed that Scube1 could be a BMP co-receptor to augment BMP signaling. Our results suggest that scube1 is critical for and functions at the top of the regulatory hierarchy of primitive hematopoiesis by modulating BMP activity during zebrafish embryogenesis.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a family of small nonprotein-coding RNAs, play a critical role in posttranscriptional gene regulation by acting as adaptors for the miRNA-induced silencing complex to inhibit gene expression by targeting mRNAs for translational repression and/or cleavage. miR-155-5p and miR-155-3p are processed from the B-cell Integration Cluster (BIC) gene (now designated, MIR155 host gene or MIR155HG). MiR-155-5p is highly expressed in both activated B- and T-cells and in monocytes/macrophages. MiR-155-5p is one of the best characterized miRNAs and recent data indicate that miR-155-5p plays a critical role in various physiological and pathological processes such as hematopoietic lineage differentiation, immunity, inflammation, viral infections, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and Down syndrome. In this review we summarize the mechanisms by which MIR155HG expression can be regulated. Given that the pathologies mediated by miR-155-5p result from the over-expression of this miRNA it may be possible to therapeutically attenuate miR-155-5p levels in the treatment of several pathological processes.
Sca1 is a surface marker of haematopoietic stem cell but its role in erythropoiesis is still largely unknown. In this work we evaluated the ability of Sca1⁺ cells to differentiate into cells of the erythrocytic lineage. We performed FACS analysis of complete and purified Sca1⁺ bone marrow cells from C3H/HeNHsd mice and measured the expression of CD71 and Terr119 to evaluate the stages in erythroid development. Definitive erythropoiesis was evident within the complete bone marrow, while only proerythroblasts were found in Sca1⁺ cells, suggesting that Sca1 is a negative regulator of erythropoiesis. We also used FDCP-mix cells and their PU.1 and SCL transfectants. The PU.1 transfectant showed significantly increased expression of Sca1 and was not induced to differentiate into red blood cells, while the SCL transfectant showed significantly lower expression of Sca1 and produced red blood cells. The results of this study suggest that increased Sca1 expression on erythropoietic precursors inhibits erythroid differentiation.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression and release of prostaglandins (PGs) by macrophages are consistent features of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced macrophage inflammation. The two major PGs, PGE(2) and PGD(2), are synthesized by the prostanoid isomerases, PGE synthases (PGES) and PGD synthases (PGDS), respectively. Since the expression profile and the individual role of these prostanoid isomerases-mediated inflammation in macrophages has not been defined, we examined the LPS-stimulated PGs production pattern and the expression profile of their synthases in the primary cultured mouse bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDM). Our data show that LPS induced both PGE(2) and PGD(2) production, which was evident by ∼8 hrs and remained at a similar ratio (∼1∶1) in the early phase (≤12 hrs) of LPS treatment. However, PGE(2) production continued increase further in the late phase (16-24 hrs); whereas the production of PGD(2) remained at a stable level from 12 to 24 hrs post-treatment. In response to LPS-treatment, the expression of both COX-2 and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was detected within 2 to 4 hrs; whereas the increased expression of microsomal PGES (mPGES)-1 and a myeloid cell transcription factor PU.1 did not appear until later phase (≥12 hrs). In contrast, the expression of COX-1, hematopoietic-PGDS (H-PGDS), cytosolic-PGES (c-PGES), or mPGES-2 in BMDM was not affected by LPS treatment. Selective inhibition of mPGES-1 with either siRNA or isoform-selective inhibitor CAY10526, but not mPGES-2, c-PGES or PU.1, attenuated LPS-induced burst of PGE(2) production indicating that mPGES-1 mediates LPS-induced PGE(2) production in BMDM. Interestingly, selective inhibition of mPGES-1 was also associated with a decrease in LPS-induced iNOS expression. In summary, our data show that mPGES-1, but not mPGES-2 or c-PGES isomerase, mediates LPS-induced late-phase burst of PGE(2) generation, and regulates LPS-induced iNOS expression in BMDM.
PU.1 has previously been shown to be down-regulated in classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) cells via promoter methylation. We performed bisulfite sequencing and proved that the promoter region and the -17 kb upstream regulatory element of the PU.1 gene were highly methylated. To evaluate whether down-regulation of PU.1 is essential for the growth of cHL cells, we conditionally expressed PU.1 in 2 cHL cell lines, L428 and KM-H2. Overexpression of PU.1 induced complete growth arrest and apoptosis in both cell lines. Furthermore, in a Hodgkin lymphoma tumor xenograft model using L428 and KM-H2 cell lines, overexpression of PU.1 led to tumor regression or stable disease. Lentiviral transduction of PU.1 into primary cHL cells also induced apoptosis. DNA microarray analysis revealed that among genes related to cell cycle and apoptosis, p21 (CDKN1A) was highly up-regulated in L428 cells after PU.1 induction. Stable knockdown of p21 rescued PU.1-induced growth arrest in L428 cells, suggesting that the growth arrest and apoptosis observed are at least partially dependent on p21 up-regulation. These data strongly suggest that PU.1 is a potent tumor suppressor in cHL and that induction of PU.1 with demethylation agents and/or histone deacetylase inhibitors is worth exploring as a possible therapeutic option for patients with cHL.
The recruitment and migration of macrophages and neutrophils is an important process during the early stages of the innate immune system in response to acute injury. Transgenic pu.1:EGFP zebrafish permit the acquisition of leukocyte migration trajectories during inflammation. Currently, these high-quality live-imaging data are mainly analysed using general statistics, for example, cell velocity. Here, we present a spatio-temporal analysis of the cell dynamics using transition matrices, which provide information of the type of cell migration. We find evidence that leukocytes exhibit types of migratory behaviour, which differ from previously described random walk processes. Dimethyl sulfoxide treatment decreased the level of persistence at early time points after wounding and ablated temporal dependencies observed in untreated embryos. We then use pharmacological inhibition of p38 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase mitogen-activated protein kinases to determine their effects on in vivo leukocyte migration patterns and discuss how they modify the characteristics of the cell migration process. In particular, we find that their respective inhibition leads to decreased and increased levels of persistent motion in leukocytes following wounding. This example shows the high level of information content, which can be gained from live-imaging data if appropriate statistical tools are used.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the principal component of Gram-negative bacterial cell walls, is a stimulator of osteoclastogenesis and thus a key factor in inflammatory bone loss. We have recently reported that the important cholesterol and inflammatory regulator, liver X receptor (LXRα/β), can potently inhibit osteoclast formation from bone marrow-derived osteoclast precursors in a bacterial/LPS environment. In this manuscript, we further studied the effect of the LXR agonist GW3965 on osteoclast differentiation in RAW264.7 promyelocytic leukemia cells exposed to LPS. We found that not only did activation of the LXR potently inhibit the formation of TRAP-positive osteoclast-like cells, but promoted a population of TRAP-negative mononuclear cells with high phagocytic activity. We observed reduced expression of the osteoclast markers TRAP/Acp5, Ctsk, Calcr and Oscar after 3-4days of GW3965 treatment, coinciding with an increase in the expression of the anti-osteoclastogenic factor Irf8. Expression of the macrophage/phagocytic marker Cd68 was increased, however the "classical" macrophage markers F4/80 and Cd14 and the "alternatively" activated macrophage markers Tgfβ and Il10 were not altered. Further, activation of LXR increased the expression of the macrophage survival gene AIM/SPα, a known LXR target gene, and osteoclast/macrophage-related markers (Mitf, Pu.1, Usf1/2, Ostm1 and Mfr). Although Akt phosphorylation was reduced, GW3965 seemed to act independently of MAPKs (p38, ERK, JNK) and NFκB, and had no inhibitory effect on cytokine expression (Tnfα, Il6, or Il1β). Our results indicate that activation of the LXR not only inhibits the differentiation of osteoclast-like cells from RAW264.7 cells in a bacterial/LPS environment, but is also involved in the fate determination of myeloid progenitor cells into macrophages with high phagocytic capacity.
Transcriptional corepressor ETO2 is a component of a protein complex containing master regulators of hematopoiesis, including GATA-1, SCL/TAL1, LMO2, and LDB1. To elucidate the role of ETO2 during erythroid differentiation, including the effects of ETO2 on GATA-1 targets, we performed gene expression profiling using K562 cells overexpressed with ETO2. The analysis demonstrated that 667 and 598 genes were upregulated and downregulated (more than twofold), respectively, in ETO2-overexpressing cells. ETO2-repressed genes included those encoding prototypical erythroid proteins. To test what percentages of ETO2-repressed genes could be direct target genes of GATA-1 in K562 cells, we merged the microarray results with ChIP-seq profile (n = 5,749), demonstrating that 23.1% of ETO2-repressed genes contained significant GATA-1 in their loci. However, there was no significant enrichment of PU.1 target genes among ETO2-repressed genes. Gene ontology analysis among ETO2-repressed genes revealed significant enrichment of genes related to "oxygen transporter," corresponding to globin genes. Quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation and ETO2 knockdown analyses confirmed that ETO2 directly regulates globin genes in K562 cells. Next, we evaluated the role of ETO2 in human primary erythroblasts, derived from cord blood CD34-positive cells. In an ex vivo model of erythroid differentiation from CD34-positive cells, ETO2 protein level peaked at day 2-4 and almost diminished at the later stage of differentiation. Furthermore, short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown and retroviral vector-mediated overexpression of ETO2 in primary erythroblasts suggested that ETO2 significantly represses HBB, HBA, and ALAS2 expression. In summary, ETO2 regulates GATA-1 target genes critical for erythroid differentiation, and the decrease of ETO2 levels during erythroid differentiation would contribute to the activation of these targets.
BACKGROUND: Genome-wide comparisons of transcription factor binding sites in different species can be used to evaluate evolutionary constraints that shape gene regulatory circuits and to understand how the interaction between transcription factors shapes their binding landscapes over evolution.RESULTS: We have compared the PPARG binding landscapes in macrophages to investigate the evolutionary impact on PPARG binding diversity in mouse and humans for this important nuclear receptor. Of note, only 5% of the PPARG binding sites were shared between the two species. In contrast, at the gene level, PPARG target genes conserved between both species constitute more than 30% of the target genes regulated by PPARG ligand in human macrophages. Moreover, the majority of all PPARG binding sites (55-60%) in macrophages show co-occupancy of the lineage-specification factor PU.1 in both species. Exploring the evolutionary dynamics of PPARG binding sites, we observed that PU.1 co-binding to PPARG sites appears to be important for possible PPARG ancestral functions such as lipid metabolism. Thus we speculate that PU.1 may have guided utilization of these species-specific PPARG conserved binding sites in macrophages during evolution.CONCLUSIONS: We propose a model in which PU.1 sites may have served as "anchor" loci for the formation of new and functionally relevant PPARG binding sites throughout evolution. As PU.1 is an essential factor in macrophage biology, such an evolutionary mechanism would allow for the establishment of relevant PPARG regulatory modules in a PU.1-dependent manner and yet permit for nuanced regulatory changes in individual species.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The present study assessed the effects of cilostazol on LPS-stimulated TLR4 signal pathways in synovial macrophages from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). These effects were confirmed in collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice.EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Expression of TLR4, PU.1, NF-κB p65 and IκBα on synovial fluid macrophages from RA patients was determined by Western blotting, and cytokines were measured by ELISA. Anti-arthritic effects were evaluated in CIA mice.KEY RESULTS: Intracellular cAMP was concentration-dependently raised by cilostazol (1-100 μM). Cilostazol significantly suppressed LPS-stimulated increase of TLR4 expression by blocking PU.1 transcriptional activity in RA macrophages. In addition, cilostazol decreased LPS-induced myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) expression, but not that of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6). Cilostazol also suppressed IkBα degradation and NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Moreover, LPS-induced increase of cytokine production (TNF-α, IL-1β) was inhibited by cilostazol, an effect which was accompanied by suppression of IκBα degradation, and NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. However, expression of anti-inflammatory IL-10 was elevated by cilostazol and forskolin/IBMX. In mice with CIA, post-treatment with cilostazol (30 mg kg⁻¹ day⁻¹) decreased expression of TLR4 in knee joints in association with decreased recruitment of macrophages. Consequently, synovial inflammation, proteoglycan depletion and bone erosion were significantly inhibited by cilostazol treatment.CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Cilostazol down-regulated LPS-stimulated PU.1-linked TLR4 expression and TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signal pathways, and then suppressed inflammatory cytokine production in synovial macrophages from RA patients. Also cilostazol markedly inhibited the severity of CIA in mice.
CD4(+) T helper (Th) subsets Th1, Th9, and Th17 cells are implicated in inducing autoimmunity whereas regulatory T cells (Treg) have a protective effect. We and others have previously shown that epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) attenuates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and alters CD4(+) T cell subpopulations. In this study, we investigated how EGCG impacts differentiation of naïve CD4(+) T cells into different effector lineages and report that EGCG impeded Th1, Th9, and Th17 differentiation and prevented IL-6-induced suppression of Treg development. We further showed that EGCG inhibited T-bet, PU.1, and RORγt, the specific transcription factors for Th1, Th9, and Th17 differentiation, respectively. These effects, in turn, may be mediated by EGCG-induced downregulation of transducers p-STAT1 and p-STAT4 for Th1, and p-STAT3 for Th17. EGCG-induced change in Th17/Treg balance may be mediated by its inhibition of IL-6 signaling because EGCG inhibited soluble IL-6R, membrane gp130, and IL-6-induced phosphorylation of STAT3. This notion was further supported by the in vivo results showing inhibited IL-6 and soluble IL-6R but increased soluble gp130 levels in plasma from EAE mice fed EGCG. Together, our results suggest that EGCG modulates development of CD4(+) T cell lineages through impacting their respective and interactive regulatory networks ultimately leading to an attenuated autoimmune response.
The genome is folded into domains located in compartments that are either transcriptionally inert or transcriptionally permissive. Here we used genome-wide strategies to characterize domains during B cell development. Structured interaction matrix analysis showed that occupancy by the architectural protein CTCF was associated mainly with intradomain interactions, whereas sites bound by the histone acetyltransferase p300 or the transcription factors E2A or PU.1 were associated with intra- and interdomain interactions that are developmentally regulated. We identified a spectrum of genes that switched nuclear location during early B cell development. In progenitor cells, the transcriptionally inactive locus encoding early B cell factor (Ebf1) was sequestered at the nuclear lamina, which thereby preserved their multipotency. After development into the pro-B cell stage, Ebf1 and other genes switched compartments to establish new intra- and interdomain interactions associated with a B lineage-specific transcription signature.
Cell fate decisions during haematopoiesis are governed by lineage-specific transcription factors, such as RUNX1, SCL/TAL1, FLI1 and C/EBP family members. To gain insight into how these transcription factors regulate the activation of haematopoietic genes during embryonic development, we measured the genome-wide dynamics of transcription factor assembly on their target genes during the RUNX1-dependent transition from haemogenic endothelium (HE) to haematopoietic progenitors. Using a Runx1-/- embryonic stem cell differentiation model expressing an inducible Runx1 gene, we show that in the absence of RUNX1, haematopoietic genes bind SCL/TAL1, FLI1 and C/EBPβ and that this early priming is required for correct temporal expression of the myeloid master regulator PU.1 and its downstream targets. After induction, RUNX1 binds to numerous de novo sites, initiating a local increase in histone acetylation and rapid global alterations in the binding patterns of SCL/TAL1 and FLI1. The acquisition of haematopoietic fate controlled by Runx1 therefore does not represent the establishment of a new regulatory layer on top of a pre-existing HE program but instead entails global reorganization of lineage-specific transcription factor assemblies.
The present study tested whether all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and 5-Aza-2'-deoxycitidine (5-Aza) affect AML cell differentiation and growth in vitro by acting on the CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α (C/EBPα) and c-Myc axis. After exposure to a combination of these agents, cell differentiation and growth arrest were significantly higher in human and murine MLL-AF9-expressing cells than in MLL-AF4/AF5q31-expressing cells, which were partly associated with increased expression of C/EBPα, C/EBPε, and PU.1, and decreased expression of c-Myc. These findings indicate that MLL-AF9-expressing cells are more sensitive to ATRA and 5-Aza, indicating that different MLL fusion proteins possess different epigenetic properties associated with retinoic acid pathway inactivation.
Kaiso zinc finger-containing protein (Kzp), a maternally-derived transcription factor, controls dorsoventral patterning during zebrafish gastrulation. Here, we uncovered a new function for Kzp in zebrafish embryonic primitive hematopoiesis. The depletion of kzp led to defects in primitive hematopoiesis including the development of the erythroid and myeloid lineages. On the other hand, overexpression of kzp caused the ectopic expression of gata1, gata2, and pu.1. Chromosome immunoprecipitation assays revealed that Kzp protein directly binds to gata1, gata2, and pu.1 promoters. Interestingly, the ectopic expression of gata2 was able to rescue the erythroid, but not the myeloid lineage in kzp-depleted zebrafish embryos. gata1 expression controlled by Kzp was dependent on gata2 during primitive erythropoiesis. Our results indicate that Kzp is a critical transcriptional factor for the expression of gata2 and pu.1 to modulate primitive hematopoiesis.
Interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) is an IRF family transcription factor with critical roles in lymphoid development and in regulating the immune response. IRF4 binds DNA weakly owing to a carboxy-terminal auto-inhibitory domain, but cooperative binding with factors such as PU.1 or SPIB in B cells increases binding affinity, allowing IRF4 to regulate genes containing ETS-IRF composite elements (EICEs; 5'-GGAAnnGAAA-3'). Here we show that in mouse CD4(+) T cells, where PU.1/SPIB expression is low, and in B cells, where PU.1 is well expressed, IRF4 unexpectedly can cooperate with activator protein-1 (AP1) complexes to bind to AP1-IRF4 composite (5'-TGAnTCA/GAAA-3') motifs that we denote as AP1-IRF composite elements (AICEs). Moreover, BATF-JUN family protein complexes cooperate with IRF4 in binding to AICEs in pre-activated CD4(+) T cells stimulated with IL-21 and in T(H)17 differentiated cells. Importantly, BATF binding was diminished in Irf4(-/-) T cells and IRF4 binding was diminished in Batf(-/-) T cells, consistent with functional cooperation between these factors. Moreover, we show that AP1 and IRF complexes cooperatively promote transcription of the Il10 gene, which is expressed in T(H)17 cells and potently regulated by IL-21. These findings reveal that IRF4 can signal via complexes containing ETS or AP1 motifs depending on the cellular context, thus indicating new approaches for modulating IRF4-dependent transcription.
Exposure to sparsely ionising gamma- or X-ray irradiation is known to increase the risk of leukaemia in humans. However, heavy ion radiotherapy and extended space exploration will expose humans to densely ionising high linear energy transfer (LET) radiation for which there is currently no understanding of leukaemia risk. Murine models have implicated chromosomal deletion that includes the hematopoietic transcription factor gene, PU.1 (Sfpi1), and point mutation of the second PU.1 allele as the primary cause of low-LET radiation-induced murine acute myeloid leukaemia (rAML). Using array comparative genomic hybridisation, fluorescence in situ hybridisation and high resolution melt analysis, we have confirmed that biallelic PU.1 mutations are common in low-LET rAML, occurring in 88% of samples. Biallelic PU.1 mutations were also detected in the majority of high-LET rAML samples. Microsatellite instability was identified in 42% of all rAML samples, and 89% of samples carried increased microsatellite mutant frequencies at the single-cell level, indicative of ongoing instability. Instability was also observed cytogenetically as a 2-fold increase in chromatid-type aberrations. These data highlight the similarities in molecular characteristics of high-LET and low-LET rAML and confirm the presence of ongoing chromosomal and microsatellite instability in murine rAML.
Current methods to study chromatin configuration are not well suited for high throughput drug screening since they require large cell numbers and multiple experimental steps that include centrifugation for isolation of nuclei or DNA. Here we show that site specific chromatin analysis can be achieved in one step by simply performing direct chromatin PCR (DC-PCR) on cells. The basic underlying observation was that standard hypotonic PCR buffers prevent global cellular chromatin solubilization during thermal cycling while more loosely organized chromatin can be amplified. Despite repeated heating to >90 °C, 41 of 61 tested 5' sequences of silenced genes (CDKN2A, PU.1, IRF4, FOSB, CD34) were not amplifiable while 47 could be amplified from expressing cells. Two gene regions (IRF4, FOSB) even required pre-heating of cells in isotonic media to allow this differentiation; otherwise none of 19 assayed sequences yielded PCR products. Cells with baseline expression or epigenetic reactivation gave similar DC-PCR results. Silencing during differentiation of CD34 positive cord blood cells closed respective chromatin while treatment of myeloma cells with an IRF4 transcriptional inhibitor opened a site to DC-PCR that was occupied by RNA polymerase II and NFκB as determined by ChIP. Translation into real-time PCR can not be achieved with commercial real-time PCR buffers which potently open chromatin, but even with simple ethidium bromide addition to standard PCR mastermix we were able to identify hits in small molecules screens that suppressed IRF4 expression or reactivated CDKN2A in myeloma cells using densitometry or visual inspection of PCR plates under UV light. While need in drug development inspired this work, application to genome-wide analysis appears feasible using phi29 for selective amplification of open cellular chromatin followed by library construction from supernatants since such supernatants yielded similar results as gene specific DC-PCR.
Comment in    Science. 2012 Nov 16;338(6109):891-2.
TanshinoneIIA, an active component derived from a traditional Chinese medicine, has anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer effect. However, the mechanisms underlying the interaction between anti-inflammation and anti-cancer of TanshinoneIIA remain elusive. In the present study, a cell model of inflammation between macrophages and colon cancer cells was used. The results showed that TanshinoneIIA inhibited the proliferation of inflammation-related colon cancer cells HCT116 and HT-29 by decreasing the production of inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and interleukin 6 (IL-6), which generated by macrophage RAW264.7 cell line. We identified Phosphatidylinositol-3, 4, 5-trisphosphate 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1) was a bona fide target of miR-155. TanshinoneIIA restored the down-regulated level of SHIP1 protein after lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulation in RAW264.7 cells. MicroRNA-155 (miR-155) was up-regulated in macrophages, possibly due to the concomitant increase of PU.1, a transcriptional activator of miR-155, accounting for decreased SHIP1. Treatment with TanshinoneIIA prevented increased PU.1 and hence increased miR-155, whereas aspirin could not. These findings support that the interruption of signal conduction between activated macrophages and colon cancer cells could be considered as a new therapeutic strategy and miR-155 could be a potential target for the prevention of inflammation-related cancer.
B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is frequently associated with mutations or chromosomal translocations of genes encoding transcription factors. Conditional deletion of genes encoding the E26-transformation-specific transcription factors, PU.1 and Spi-B, in B cells (ΔPB mice) leads to B-ALL in mice at 100% incidence rate and with a median survival of 21 wk. We hypothesized that PU.1 and Spi-B may redundantly activate transcription of genes encoding tumor suppressors in the B cell lineage. Characterization of aging ΔPB mice showed that leukemia cells expressing IL-7R were found in enlarged thymuses. IL-7R-expressing B-ALL cells grew in culture in response to IL-7 and could be maintained as cell lines. Cultured ΔPB cells expressed reduced levels of B cell linker protein (BLNK), a known tumor suppressor gene, compared with controls. The Blnk promoter contained a predicted PU.1 and/or Spi-B binding site that was required for promoter activity and occupied by PU.1 and/or Spi-B as determined by chromatin immunoprecipitation. Restoration of BLNK expression in cultured ΔPB cells opposed IL-7-dependent proliferation and induced early apoptosis. We conclude that the tumor suppressor BLNK is a target of transcriptional activation by PU.1 and Spi-B in the B cell lineage.
Comment in    Blood. 2012 Nov 1;120(18):3630-1.
Naive CD4+ T cells differentiate into various effector Th subsets depending on the Ags and cytokine microenvironment they encounter. IL-9-secreting Th9 cells are the most recent Th subset to be described. PU.1, one of the transcription factors required for the development of Th9 cells, binds to the Il9 gene. In this study, we show that PU.1 increases histone acetylation at the Il9 locus through direct interactions with histone acetyltransferases. In the absence of PU.1, there is decreased association of Gcn5 and p300/CBP associated factor and increased association of histone deacetylases at the Il9 locus in Th9 cells. Inhibition of histone deacetylase activity augments PU.1-dependent IL-9 production. PU.1 forms a complex with Gcn5, and inhibition of the expression of Gcn5 results in reduced IL-9 production. Moreover, the effects of Gcn5 on IL-9 production are specific as the production of IL-10 and IL-21, two additional cytokines produced by Th9 cells, is not altered after decreased Gcn5 expression. Together, these data define a PU.1-dependent mechanism for altered histone acetylation and expression of the Il9 locus in Th9 cells.
Although the T-helper type 9 (Th9) subset has recently been revisited, interleukin (IL)-9-producing invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells remain poorly characterized. Moreover, whether IL-9-producing iNKT cells regulate colitis is unknown. Here, we investigated functions of IL-9-producing iNKT cells in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. Wild-type (WT) mice attenuated colitis compared to Jα18(-/-) mice, which were restored by the adoptive transfer of WT, but not IL-4-deficient iNKT cells. IL-4-deficient iNKT cells failed to produce IL-9, which was reversed by recombinant IL-4. Furthermore, iNKT cells, pre-incubated with anti-CD3+CD28 monoclonal antibodies and IL-4+tumor growth factor (TGF)-β (IL-9(+) iNKT), suppressed colitis in Jα18(-/-) mice, whereas pre-incubated IL-4-deficient iNKT cells did not. IL-9 blockade reversed IL-9(+) iNKT cell-mediated colitis by increasing colonic IL-17A and interferon (IFN)-γ transcripts, but decreasing IL-9, IL-10, TGF-β, PU.1, IFN regulatory factor 4, and signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 in Jα18(-/-) mice. In conclusion, IL-9-producing iNKT cells protect against DSS-induced colitis through IFN-γ and IL-17A suppression, but IL-10 and TGF-β enhancement, depending on the IL-4 production by iNKT cells.
Microglia, macrophages of the central nervous system, play an important role in brain homeostasis. Their origin has been unclear. Recent fate-mapping experiments have established that microglia mostly originate from Myb-independent, FLT3-independent, but PU.1-dependent precursors that express the CSF1-receptor at E8.5 of embryonic development. These precursors are presumably located in the yolk sac (YS) at this time before invading the embryo between E9.5 and E10.5 and colonizing the fetal liver. Indeed, the E14.5 fetal liver contains a large population of Myb-independent YS-derived myeloid cells. This myeloid lineage is distinct from hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), which require the transcription factor Myb for their development and maintenance. This "yolky" beginning and the independence from conventional HSCs are not unique to microglia. Indeed, several other populations of F4/80-positive macrophages develop also from YS Myb-independent precursors, such as Kupffer cells in the liver, Langerhans cells in the epidermis, and macrophages in the spleen, kidney, pancreas, and lung. Importantly, microglia and the other Myb-independent macrophages persist, at least in part, in adult mice and likely self-renew within their respective tissues of residence, independently of bone marrow HSCs. This suggests the existence of tissue resident macrophage "stem cells" within tissues such as the brain, and opens a new era for the molecular and cellular understanding of myeloid cells responses during acute and chronic inflammation.
Anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are successfully used in the management of non-Hodgkin lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We have reported previously that statins induce conformational changes in CD20 molecules and impair rituximab-mediated complement-dependent cytotoxicity. Here we investigated in more detail the influence of farnesyltransferase inhibitors (FTIs) on CD20 expression and antitumor activity of anti-CD20 mAbs. Among all FTIs studied, L-744,832 had the most significant influence on CD20 levels. It significantly increased rituximab-mediated complement-dependent cytotoxicity against primary tumor cells isolated from patients with non-Hodgkin lymphomas or chronic lymphocytic leukemia and increased CD20 expression in the majority of primary lymphoma/leukemia cells. Incubation of Raji cells with L-744,832 led to up-regulation of CD20 at mRNA and protein levels. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay revealed that inhibition of farnesyltransferase activity was associated with increased binding of PU.1 and Oct-2 to the CD20 promoter sequences. These studies indicate that CD20 expression can be modulated by FTIs. The combination of FTIs with anti-CD20 mAbs is a promising therapeutic approach, and its efficacy should be examined in patients with B-cell tumors.
BACKGROUND: The human IL1RL1/ST2 gene encodes IL33 receptor. Recently, IL33 has been recognized as a key molecule for the development of Th2 response. Although mast cells and basophils are major targets of IL33 and play important roles in IL33-mediated Th2-type immune responses, the expression mechanism of ST2 in mast cells and basophils is largely unknown. In the present study, we analyzed regulation mechanism of the human ST2 promoter in the human mast cell line LAD2 and basophilic cell line KU812.METHODS: Promoter activity was determined by reporter assay with plasmids carrying the wild-type ST2 promoter obtained from human genomic DNA and its mutant. The transcription factor binding to the identified cis-element was identified by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). The effect of candidate transcription factor on ST2 expression was confirmed by analyzing ST2 mRNA level in siRNA-introduced cells.RESULTS: Reporter assay demonstrated that a cis-element of typical Ets-family binding sequence was critical for promoter activity in LAD2 and KU812. An Ets-family transcription factor PU.1 bound to this element in an EMSA. When PU.1 expression was suppressed by siRNA, ST2 mRNA level was significantly reduced in KU812.CONCLUSIONS: These observations indicated that PU.1 positively regulates the ST2 promoter as a transcription factor that directly transactivates the ST2 promoter via Ets-family-related cis-element in mast cells and basophils.
Acute leukemias are characterized by deregulation of transcriptional networks that control the lineage specificity of gene expression. The aberrant overexpression of the Spi-1/PU.1 transcription factor leads to erythroleukemia. To determine how Spi-1 mechanistically influences the transcriptional program, we combined a ChIP-seq analysis with transcriptional profiling in cells from an erythroleukemic mouse model. We show that Spi-1 displays a selective DNA-binding that does not often cause transcriptional modulation. We report that Spi-1 controls transcriptional activation and repression partially through distinct Spi-1 recruitment to chromatin. We revealed several parameters impacting on Spi-1-mediated transcriptional activation. Gene activation is facilitated by Spi-1 occupancy close to transcriptional starting site of genes devoid of CGIs. Moreover, in those regions Spi-1 acts by binding to multiple motifs tightly clustered and with similar orientation. Finally, in contrast to the myeloid and lymphoid B cells in which Spi-1 exerts a physiological activity, in the erythroleukemic cells, lineage-specific cooperating factors do not play a prevalent role in Spi-1-mediated transcriptional activation. Thus, our work describes a new mechanism of gene activation through clustered site occupancy of Spi-1 particularly relevant in regard to the strong expression of Spi-1 in the erythroleukemic cells.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Xinhua Hospital, Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU) School of Medicine, Shanghai 200092, China.
Monocytes and macrophages differentiate from progenitor cells under the influence of colony-stimulating factors. Genome-scale data have enabled the identification of the set of genes that distinguishes macrophages from other cell types and the ways in which thousands of genes are regulated in response to pathogen challenge. Although there has been a focus on a small subset of lineage-enriched transcription factors, such as PU.1, more than one-half of the transcription factors in the genome can be expressed in macrophage lineage cells under some state of activation, and they interact in a complex network. The network architecture is conserved across species, but many of the target genes evolve rapidly and differ between mouse and human. The data and publication deluge related to macrophage biology require the development of new analytical tools and ways of presenting information in an accessible form.
Author information:(1)Rheumaeinheit, Medizinische Klinik IV, Klinikum der Universität München, Campus Innenstadt, Pettenkoferstr. 8a, 80336, München, Deutschland. andreas.ramming@med.uni-muenchen.de
Natural killer (NK)-cells are a lymphocyte population playing a critical role in the immune surveillance against tumors and virally infected cells. The development of human hematopoietic stem cells (hHSC) into fully differentiated NK-cells pass through discrete stages of differentiation involving a variety of factors such as cytokines, membrane factors, and transcription factors (TFs). Because there is lack of studies in this field, we decided to perform an extended analysis of TFs during in vitro differentiation of NK-cells. At several points of differentiation, cells were characterized by their mRNA expression either for NK-cell cell markers, for a number of mature NK-cell receptors or a large panel of TFs. Our data suggests that some TFs (ID2, EGR-2 and T-BET) play a role in NK-cell commitment, differentiation and maturation. Although delayed on its expression, BLIMP1 also seems to be involved in differentiation and maturation of NK cells, but not in NK-cell commitment. E4BP4 and TOX are more related with initial stages of NK-cell commitment. PU.1, MEF, Ikaros, EGR-1, BCL11B and IRF-2 revealed less involvement in maturation and were more associated with NK-cell commitment and pNK cell production. GATA-3 showed a differential role during the ontogeny of NK-cells. We show that assessment of the transcripts present in the differentiating NK-cells demonstrated, a pattern of preserved and differential gene expression remarkably similar to that seen in mice except for E4BP4 that showed constant downregulation throughout the culture period. A thorough understanding of NK-cell developmental mechanisms is important as it may enable future therapeutic manipulation.
Comment in    Circ Res. 2012 Aug 3;111(4):388-91.
BACKGROUND: Kaiso protein has been identified as a new member of the POZ-ZF subfamily of transcription factors that are involved in development and cancer. There is consistent evidence of the role of Kaiso and its involvement in human tumorigenesis but there is no evidence about its role in hematopoietic differentiation or establishment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). We used, normal K562 cell line, established from a CML patient in blast crisis, and imatinib-resistant K562 cell line, to investigate the specific distribution of Kaiso and their contribution to the cell differentiation status of the blast crisis of CML (CML-BP).RESULTS: We found cytoplasmic expression of Kaiso, in K562 cells and patients, confirmed by immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry and western blot of cytoplasmic protein fraction. Kaiso was weakly expressed in the imatinib-resistant K562 cell line confirmed by immunofluorescence and western blot. The cytoplasmic expression of Kaiso was not modified when the K562 cells were treated for 16 h with imatinib 0.1 and 1 μM. In our study, small interfering RNA (siRNA) was introduced to down regulate the expression of Kaiso and p120ctn in K562 cell line. Kaiso and p120ctn were down regulated individually (siRNA-Kaiso or siRNA-p120ctn) or in combination using a simultaneous co-transfection (siRNA-Kaiso/p120ctn). We next investigated whether knockdown either Kaiso or p120ctn alone or in combination affects the cell differentiation status in K562 cells. After down regulation we analyzed the expression of hematopoietic cell differentiation and proliferation genes: SCF, PU-1, c-MyB, C/EBPα, Gata-2 and maturation markers of hematopoietic cells expressed in the plasma membrane: CD15, CD11b, CD33, CD117. The levels of SCF and c-MyB were increased by 1000% and 65% respectively and PU-1, Gata-2 and C/EBPα were decreased by 66%, 50% and 80% respectively, when Kaiso levels were down regulated by siRNA. The results were similar when both Kaiso and p120ctn were down regulated by siRNA. The increased expression of SCF and decreased expression of GATA-2 could be responsible by the higher cell viability detected in K562 cells double knock-down of both Kaiso and p120ctn. Finally, we studied the effect of knock-down either Kaiso or p120ctn, alone or in combination on CD15, CD11b, CD33 and Cd117 expression. Using siRNA approach a reduction of 35%, 8% and 13% in CD15, CD33 and CD117 levels respectively, were achieved in all transfections, when compared to scrambled knock-down cells.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that both Kaiso and p120ctn, contributes to maintaining the differentiated state of the K562 cells and similar to other cancers, cytoplasmic localization of Kaiso is related to a poor prognosis in CML-BP. By the broad and profound effects on the expression of genes and markers of hematopoietic differentiation produced by Kaiso knock-down, these findings reveal Kaiso as a potential target for selective therapy of CML.
Pattern recognition receptors for fungi include dectin-1 and mannose receptor, and these mediate phagocytosis, as well as production of cytokines, reactive oxygen species, and the lipid mediator leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)). The influence of G protein-coupled receptor ligands such as LTB(4) on fungal pattern recognition receptor expression is unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of LTB(4) signaling in dectin-1 expression and responsiveness in macrophages. Genetic and pharmacologic approaches showed that LTB(4) production and signaling through its high-affinity G protein-coupled receptor leukotriene B(4) receptor 1 (BLT1) direct dectin-1-dependent binding, ingestion, and cytokine production both in vitro and in vivo. Impaired responses to fungal glucans correlated with lower dectin-1 expression in macrophages from leukotriene (LT)- and BLT1-deficent mice than their wild-type counterparts. LTB(4) increased the expression of the transcription factor responsible for dectin-1 expression, PU.1, and PU.1 small interfering RNA abolished LTB(4)-enhanced dectin-1 expression. GM-CSF controls PU.1 expression, and this cytokine was decreased in LT-deficient macrophages. Addition of GM-CSF to LT-deficient cells restored expression of dectin-1 and PU.1, as well as dectin-1 responsiveness. In addition, LTB(4) effects on dectin-1, PU.1, and cytokine production were blunted in GM-CSF(-/-) macrophages. Our results identify LTB(4)-BLT1 signaling as an unrecognized controller of dectin-1 transcription via GM-CSF and PU.1 that is required for fungi-protective host responses.
The PU.1 transcription factor is a crucial regulator of hematopoiesis, and its expression is altered in various leukemic processes. It has been shown that expression of PU.1 is severely impaired in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), but the mechanism underlying this effect remains unknown. Through bisulfite sequencing, semi-quantitative PCR, and indirect immunofluorescence and Western blot techniques, we found aberrant methylation in the promoter region of transcription factor PU.1 in CML patients both in the chronic and blast crisis phases, as well as in the CML blast K562 cell line. Of these, several CpG sites were more highly methylated in blast crisis than chronic phase, while no methylation of these sites was observed in healthy individuals. Interestingly, CML patients achieved complete cytogenetic remission under imatinib mesylate treatment, but the aberrant methylation status of PU.1 was not reversed. Down-regulation of PU.1 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was also observed in association with aberrant methylation. Thus, for the first time, we have revealed a potential epigenetic modification of PU.1 in CML, which may be responsible for the down-regulation of PU.1. These data suggest that aberrant methylation of PU.1 may play a role in CML pathogenesis, and may therefore serve as a useful biomarker and potential target for demethylating drugs.
